A court yesterday gave a stay of execution on an order given by the DPP to have Safaricom’s Consumer Business Unit director Sylvia Mulinge arrested and prosecuted. Mulinge moved court to stop her arrest and prosecution in relation to an accident she caused, leading to the death of a minor. The DPP, through a letter dated the 19th of last month, ordered her prosecution in a traffic case for causing the death of an eight-year-old girl through dangerous driving. The International Centre for Policy and Conflict sued Mulinge and Safaricom on July 19, asking the court to compel police to take action against her for the accident. Mulinge was expected to present herself at the Kibera law court next Monday to plead to the charge. However, she asked the court to prohibit the DPP, the Inspector General of Police and the chief magistrate of the court from taking any steps which “would result cumulatively or otherwise to my arrest and prosecution”. Mulinge said this would prejudice her rights. Mulinge further wanted a declaration that the DPP, in directing the police to arrest and charge her with the offence when the police had already filed a report exonerating her from blame, had abrogated her right to equality and freedom from discrimination, as enshrined in law. This amounted to unfair administrative action, she added. In the court papers filed by Njoroge Regeru Co Advocates, she said the vehicle she was driving was involved in a road accident on or about February 1, 2015, at around 11.35am on the Southern Bypass, as she drove from Ngong Road towards Lang’ata Road and as a result the girl died. “The applicant proceeded to the Lang’ata police station on the same day and made a report of the accident and on the following day, she recorded her statement and was requested to leave her contact and physical address to enable the police to carry out investigation,” the petition read. She also said that at the time of releasing the motor vehicle, the police officer at the station confirmed that after initial investigation it was obvious she was not in the wrong in relation to the accident that led to the death of the minor. According to Mulinge’s lawyer, the officer confirmed that at the point of the accident, there was a wall and road barriers preventing pedestrians from crossing over the bypass and there is an underpass for crossing. “The road signs indicated that vehicles are not allowed to stop at the section of the road,” she said.