Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso has said she will not be cowed or shaken by her political detractors in the course of her duties. Laboso said as a duly elected governor, she is up to the task. She said she will not allow dictators to tell her how to run the county. The elections are over and all leaders and residents ought to give her a chance to deliver her agenda, the governor said. Laboso warned those working to bring her down politically. The governor spoke during a prayer rally on Tuesday at Bomet Stadium following the Supreme Court ruling that upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win. She said she will continue working, despite the challenges. Earlier, Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui had stormed the stadium with youth who said the governor has not addressed their problems like joblessness.  “Everyone here should stick to their mandate and strive to deliver to their people,” Laboso said. The governor and Jubilee county chairman Bernard Mutai organised a ceremony at the stadium. Tonui had also planned for prayers for the county employees who were sacked for having been hired without passing through the Public Service Board and whose contracts had expired. The county security team, led by county commissioner Erastus Ekidor, dismissed the meeting as illegal since the MP had not notified the relevant departments. MPs Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu), former Chepalungu MP Paul Savimbi and a host of MCAs, together with majority leader Josphat Kirui, attended the function. It took Bishop Gilbert Rugut of Full Gospel Churches, Narok, and some elders 30 minutes to calm the group. They asked county leaders to work together and avoid divisions. When Tonui was given a chance to speak, he said he has no problem with anyone and that he attended the ceremony just like any other leader, not to disrupt it. He said he is ready to work with all county leaders. The MP said he attended the ceremony because he is an ardent member and supporter of Jubilee. Laboso said she was duly elected and deserves county leaders’ suport. The governor said: “Let us respect one another…as leaders we should tell our people that contractual jobs are not permanent, and when it expires they should not be made to believe they were fired.” She said staff need to be downsized and money meant for their salaries channelled towards development projects.  