The cost of constructing and operating mobile network sites in the countrys’ rural areas is likely to go down by 70 per cent on adaptation of a new technology solution. The solution, dubbed Rural Star, is part of Huawei technology Three-Star Site solutions that include Polestar and TubeStar, which intends to enable more sites in a cost-efficient manner. The dip will go down to approximately Sh400, 000 for construction and operations from the current Sh1.03 million on average. This will give operators a first-time opportunity to construct low-cost sites hence providing connectivity and digital services to more people living in rural and remote areas. A first in the country, the solution will be used to develop a new network tower in one of Isiolo county’s sub-locations that is set to go live before the year ends. Enhancing the area’s coverage will make residents, who travel up to 20 kilometres to make phones calls do it from any location of their comfort, in addition to getting voice, internet and digital services at ease. The solution leverages on cutting-edge technology innovation by removing the requirement for 30 - 60 metre towers with 12 - 18 metre iron poles. It further reduces passive infrastructure cost for the operators by approximately 80 per cent. However, due to low population density of about 2,000 to 5,000 people per site and lower than average rate per user, the site will result in a less period of return on investment cycles that could take up to three years compared to traditional sites which tend to take up to 10 years and beyond. On cost of power, Rural Star makes use of solar power to reduce operating expenditure to almost zero. The solution has so far been rolled out in Ghana and Congo. Kenya will be the third country in the region to adapt it. According to Huawei’s Vice President of Wireless Networks, Mohamed Madkour, the solution result is an average 220 erlang on voice services and 800 megabytes per day from each site. Speaking during the GSMA Mobile 360 conference held in Tanzania early this year, he noted that 100 such sites will go live in the second half of 2017, with other markets to follow.  