Opposition leader Raila Odinga has spoken on an array of issues but the biggest question many of his supporters will be asking themselves is whether or not he will be able to sustain the momentum. It is no doubt that, in the past, Raila has previously emerged strong, resilient and indefatigable. The biggest hurdle for the NASA leader even as he lays out his strategy is how to walk along with millions of his supporters.  It is a fact that his supporters, just like other Kenyans, are bearing the brunt of the country's dwindling economic fortunes.  The extended uncertain political environment has already occasioned massive losses, amounting to hundreds of billions of shillings, with the majority of the low- income earners bearing the biggest brunt as the harsh economic reality takes its toll on them. Raila draws his support from many Kenyans, including this cadre living hand-to-mouth with huge mortgages and other forms of loans to literally survive.  His supporters are living in rented buildings or have some sort of facility they must repay. When Raila talks of an economic boycott aren’t his supporters likely to suffer if most of the companies that employ them close shop? The answer to this question is yes. Then how will his supporters juggle with the issue of economic boycott against eking out a living? This is bound to be a challenge. Raila’s next steps may be counterproductive at the end of the day. You call for a boycott and those affected companies will retrench staff while some will be unable to sell products. This will put the onus on the employees, some of whom are his supporters, to make a wise decision that may puncture his cause and course of action. This will be very disruptive in the short-run. With this agenda set to take a toll on the already limping economy with over 10 pet cent of the GDP already lost, it would be sensible for Jubilee to see how they can mitigate this, even if not directly, they need to reach out.  If you look at resources we have spent on this election both for the IEBC and the money pumped into the campaigns by politicians since the August 8 General Election, we could be talking of losses amounting to over Sh1.5 trillion. I think that a referendum would be necessary to effect some of the changes he has proposed today.