Health chiefs in Kenya have been put on alert following the outbreak of a deadly outbreak of airborne plague in Madagascar. More than 1,300 cases have now been reported in Madagascar, World Health Organisation health chiefs have revealed, as nearby nations have been placed on high alert. Two thirds of those are suspected to be pneumonic - described as the 'deadliest and most rapid form of plague', WHO figures show. The deadly disease is caused by the same bacteria that wiped out at least 50 million people in Europe in the 1300s. However, the lethal form currently spreading is different to the bubonic strain which was behind history's Black Death. Pneumonic can spread through coughing and can kill within 24 hours. Mozambique, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, Comoros and Mauritius are the six other countries to have received the heightened alert. It has been reported as many as 50 aid workers are believed to have been among the people infected. The African branch of the WHO states 93 people have lost their lives to the disease so far, lower than the 124 noted in official UN figures. A WHO official said: "The risk of the disease spreading is high at national level… because it is present in several towns and this is just the start of the outbreak."  WHO admitted the outbreaks have centered in cities, including the capital of Madagascar, Antananarivo - heightening the risk of it spreading. Officials are growing concerned as around two thirds of the cases are suspected to be pneumonic plague, spread through coughing, sneezing or spitting.  It is more deadly then the bubonic variation of the disease which killed a third of Europe's population in the 1300s before being largely wiped out. Madagascar sees regular outbreaks of the disease, but this one has caused alarm due to how quickly it has spread and a high number of fatalities.  Like the bubonic form that often is found in Madagascar's remote highlands, it can be treated with common antibiotics if caught in time. This outbreak is the first time the disease has affected the Indian Ocean island's two biggest cities, Antananarivo and Toamasina, officials said. Around 600 cases are reported each year on the island. But this year's outbreak is expected to dwarf previous ones as it has struck so early.  International agencies have so far sent more than one million doses of antibiotics to Madagascar. Nearly 20,000 respiratory masks have also been donated.  However, the WHO advises against travel or trade restrictions. It has previously asked for $5.5 million to support the plague response.  Despite its guidance, Air Seychelles, one of Madagascar's biggest airlines, stopped flying temporarily earlier in the month to try and curb the spread.   