Kenya’s participation in the Safland Sevens slated for Namibia this month hangs in balance.  This comes hot on the heels of the team failing to acquire visas in time to travel to Assupol Sevens which took place in Stellenbosch, South Africa last weekend.  Instead, the team will be left to intensify preparations with a 10-day training camp which starts in Nanyuki today. The camp in Nanyuki will feature 26 players with the squad expected to be whittled down to 18 for the start of the world series. The source observed that the technical bench see no need of travelling to Namibia having missed the South Africa leg with the calibre of teams expected being inferior. Kenya were slated to face off England Academy, champions South Africa and Scotland in the two-day tournament and thereafter attend a ten-day training camp in Cape Town before going to Namibia. Most of the core teams in the World Sevens Series have played one or two pre-season tournaments to assess their preparations for the start of what will be gruelling season that also includes the Commonwealth Games in April and the Rugby World Cup sevens in USA in July.  Should Kenya fail to feature in Safland Sevens, they will have had no build up tournament to prepare themselves for the opening leg of the World Sevens Series which kickoffs in Dubai next month. Kenya face holders South Africa, Canada and neighbours Uganda in Pool A in Dubai.  Director of rugby Thomas Odundo said they are currently facing a cash crunch and can’t afford to foot accommodation and air tickets for the team for the two-day tournament. “We will make a decision by Friday to see if we will attend the tournament. There are costs which we will incur on our side if we are to participate,” added Odundo.  He said the team has had a good strength and conditioning period for the past two and half months and they will be well prepared for the start of the season. “The management team have said they are on track in terms of their preparations for the start of the season and we will be very competitive,” added Odundo.  Elsewhere, Simbas head coach Jerome Paarwater will name his travelling party to this year’s Hong Kong Cup of Nations on Friday. The Simbas, currently ranked 27th in the world, will face off against Chile (28), Russia (20) and 22nd ranked Hong Kong.