Singer Bahati has been accused by Benson Kathiai of not paying him his Sh200,000. Ben took to social media to embarrass the singer, saying this is not defamation but a matter of requesting him to refund his money, calling Bahati a "con". Ben says the singer was arrested in his house on the morning of November 28, was then taken to Karuri police station and later released after making numerous calls, demanded he be released with immediate effect. "Bahati is my neighbour, I have known him for the last three years and he has been borrowing my car for sometime now. He approached me and told me about starting a business together called EMB films and production. I agreed and he told me since he is a big name, he will be able to market the business. He told me the business will cost Sh10 million so he said I have to give him Sh5 million because the equipment he already had were allegedly Sh5 million." He added: "We agreed he would be the CEO and I would be the director. I told my lawyer, we drafted an agreement. We got a house for the business and the owner wanted a six-month deposit. Bahati told me to give him Sh220,000 but I gave him Sh200,000. The following day he said he wanted to got to China, I talked to my lawyer about it, who advised me not to give the money yet, and later gave a text to the singer, who refused to give it back, saying he had already made it before I came to the picture," Ben said Bahati told Word Is he has never been arrested in his life and didn't owe anyone money, adding that he is suing Ben for defamation, in which he will be expected to pay him around Sh10 million. Word Is reached out to Ben, who rubbished everything Bahati had said. Ben said the singer has been begging him to sort the issue out of court. "His lawyers are insisting that I should apologise about the post I put. They say we should sort out this story and withdraw my statement." Benson adds that the singer has been asking for money from him for a while now, stating he even borrows his car, and the two have been friends for sometime. Bahati and Ben were supposed to start a company called EMB Films and Productions, where the two were supposed to share the cost at 50/50. The Sh200,000 Ben gave to the singer was for a house where their business was to be launched. After seeing a lack of progress, Ben called Bahati to refund his money, but the singer has since blocked him.