Kenya's political divisions looked set to deepen on Tuesday as security forces patrolled the capital in preparation for President Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration and police sealed off an area where the opposition planned to hold a rally. Read: Security tight hours to Uhuru's swearing-in, 60,000 expected Uhuru won a second five-year term on October 26 in a repeat presidential election boycotted by NASA leader Raila Odinga, who said it would not be free and fair. The Supreme Court nullified the first presidential election, in August, over irregularities. The extended election season has divided Kenya, a Western ally in a volatile region, and blunted growth in East Africa's richest economy. Supporters of Uhuru - who won with 98 per cent of the vote after Raila's boycott - are urging the opposition to engage in talks and move on. "Our responsibility after the political competition is to come together and work to build the nation," Uhuru told a church service on Sunday. More on this: UhuRuto preach unity, say swearing-in a celebration of diversity Tens of thousands of the Jubilee Party leader's supporters, clad in the red and yellow Jubilee party colours and carrying Kenyan flags, arrived at Kasarani stadium where the inauguration will take place. “I’m sure Uhuru will be able to bring people together and unite them so we can all work for the country,” said Eunice Jerobon, a trader who travelled overnight from the Rift Valley town of Kapsabet. Shortly after she spoke, a large crowd gathering outside the stadium overwhelmed police and streamed inside. Raila's supporters say such talk of unity is tantamount to surrender. They accuse the ruling party of stealing the election, rampant corruption, directing abuse by the security forces and neglecting vast swathes of the country, including Raila's heartland in the west. "A return to the political backwardness of our past is more than unacceptable. It is intolerable ... This divide cannot be bridged by dialogue and compromise," the National Super Alliance opposition alliance said in a statement. Read: Uhuru still illegitimate president, resistance on, Raila tells BBC The Opposition planned to hold a prayer meeting at Jacaranda grounds on Tuesday, saying it wants to commemorate the lives of supporters killed during confrontations with the security forces over the election period. More than 70 people have been killed in political violence this election season, mostly by the police. But a Reuters team at the scene of the planned rally said it had been sealed off by dozens of police. Two water cannons were standing by, setting the stage for a confrontation if opposition supporters tried to gather.  Click here for the latest political news  