Police have sealed off Jacaranda grounds where the Opposition is planning to hold a memorial service parallel to Uhuru Kenyatta's coronation. NASA, led by veteran Opposition chief Raila Odinga, wants to honour supporters killed during confrontations with police since the August 8 national election. A spot check by The Star found police in strategic places and two water cannon trucks at the grounds. Some residents said police were not allowing people to leave their houses. They said tear gas was fired and gunshots heard.  "There is tear gas all over my house. My kids are crying and my neighbours are facing the same," one told The Star. Faeces and garbage were also found at the location, apparently dumped by people who do not want the rally to take place. "Even if they pour human poop or garbage, Kenyans will be at Jacaranda today. They will smell human waste but the memorial will go on," ODM director of communications Philip Etale said via Twitter. NASA lawyer Nelson Havi said: "Mike Sonko dumping foul-smelling waste at Jacaranda, for the stench to scare away mourners attending #NASAMemorial." Sonko is the Governor of Nairobi who has said his city is not for demonstrations. On Friday, the coalition notified police of the memorial in a letter copied to Nairobi police commander Japheth Koome. At least 25 people died on November 17, after supporters who had gone to welcome Raila at the JKIA clashed with police. An autopsy report by government pathologist Johansen Oduor said 10 had bullet wounds. Read: NASA has right to swear-in Raila, Muthama says at Machakos strategy meeting Also read: Shoot me if I'm the problem, not my supporters, Raila tells Jubilee But Koome told journalists that NASA wrote to the wrong OCS. He said priority would be given to securing the city for Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto's inauguration for another five years at State House. More on this: NASA says notice for Tuesday memorial given, Koome 'unaware' Click here for the latest political news