NASA has vowed to carry on with a million-man heroic reception of its leader Raila Odinga at JKIA tomorrow, defying IG Joseph Boinnet’s security warning. Boinnet yesterday warned NASA against taking the million-man march to the airport, claiming the move will undermine security. “Jomo Kenyatta International Airport is a protected area. Those without valid reasons to enter the facility will be denied entry,” he said in a statement. But in a quick rejoinder, NASA dismissed the IG’s warning. “Our clients have noted the content of a public statement purportedly issued by your office and wish to state that access to the airport to receive persons and more so national heroes and/or leaders is indeed a valid reason to enter and constitute legitimate business at the airport so that your officers would have no right to deny anyone entry,” NASA said in a response letter to Boinnet. Raila is expected to touch down in Nairobi in the early morning. He has been out of the country for 10 days. The former premier left for Washington DC, where he held meetings with organisations, including US Senate and congressional committee officials. From the airport, Raila’s entourage will head to Uhuru Park, through the Outer Ring Road, Jogoo Road, Landhies Road, Haile Selassie Avenue and Harambee Avenue. He will address a rally at Uhuru Park. Accompanying Raila will be Moses Wetang’ula, who had travelled to Germany to visit Kalonzo Musyoka. Sources told the Star Raila yesterday visited Kalonzo and his family at a hospital, where his wife is admitted. It was unclear whether Kalonzo will also be coming back from Germany. He has been in Germany for about a month. On Sunday, during a NASA rally in Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East, Nairobi, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said all leaders and supporters will trek from JKIA and only four vehicles for the principals will be allowed in the procession. “On that day, there will only be four cars for Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. All of us will walk from the airport to Uhuru Park,” he said. NASA will today hold a major rehearsal rally in Nairobi’s Eastlands to psyche up supporters ahead of the grand return of the principals. Conveners James Orengo, Muthama and Boni Khalwale have urged Kenyans to come out in large numbers to welcome Raila and demonstrate they have Kenyans on their side. “Organisers of the grand welcome invite supporters to a major rally in Kamukunji Grounds. This is part of our continuing journey of ensuring electoral justice and putting an end to the evil culture of sham elections with pre-determined outcomes,” they said in a statement.