Most of the businesses were closed and security tightened in the city centre, estates and major roads during President Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing in ceremony at Kasarani stadium yesterday. Security officers drawn from all the uniformed disciplines- military and other specialized units, administrative police, regular police, prisons and NYS- were deployed to ensure security and safery of thousands of guests who attended the ceremony was not compromised. The officers, some in horses, patrolled the central business district while anti-riot police officers were deployed to ‘hot spots’ to ensure there was calm. In Baba Dogo, where there were violent protests last week following the killing of five people by unknown assailants, police officers were deployed to the area as early as Monday night. They were in full anti-riot gear and could be seen walking in groups five. Most shops situated along Baba Dogo Road and in the estate were closed. There was little movement. The situation was similar in other areas that have been classified as violent hots pots by the police. They include Mathare, Kawangware, Kibera and Gomongo slums. In Kawangware 56, there was heavy police presence and there was literary no businesses going on. Police hurled tear gas to disperse youth who were grouping.  “We are not protesting but these people (police) are tear gassing us. What have we done?” resident Kelvin Wafula said. The hot spots have witnessed protests since Supreme Court confirmed President Kenyatta’s victory last Monday. In the CBD, most shops were closed and only a few people could be seen in the ever-busy and congested. Officers, some in horses, patrolled the area. Key roads including Thika Road, Mombasa Road and Wangari Maathai Road were closed for the better part of the day. Nairobi police boss Japhet Koome had on Saturday said the multi-agency security operations was to ensure the security of the visiting guests, who includes heads of states and governments are not compromised. “I have officers from specialized units from other counties. Officers drawn from all the uniformed disciplines have been mobilized,” Koome said.