Swamibapa trounced Sikh Union by 125 runs in the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super league despite a two-hour rain delay on Sunday. With rains having stopped the match between Obuya Academy and Kenya Kongonis in the second inning, Swamibapa had to walk on and off the field twice before reviving their chances of reclaiming the league title. The rains also made it impossible for the Kanbis-Nairobi Gymkhana and Cutchi Leva-Sir Ali matches to bowl off. After seeing their last weekend match against Nairobi Gymkhana end prematurely because of rain, Swamibapa were once again starring at the same situation after the umpires were forced to stop the match twice due to light showers in the Kenyan capital city. The match was first stopped in the first inning with Swamibapa on 147 for 6 before resuming after the lunch break. After posting 232 for nine, the home team were on course of a big win when Lameck Onyango had led his side to reduce Sikh Union to 33 for 6 before the skies opened up again. And when the umpires resumed the match after half an hour halt, Onyango and his troops picked up the remaining four wickets for 69 runs to beat the rain and secure their 10th victory. Sikh Union were in danger early in the chase when they were reduced to 2 for 3 in 2.1 overs, thanks to Onyango’s three wickets. The former national team bowler never gave them breathing space as he went on to reduce them to 33 for 6 with two more wickets with his younger brother James Ngoche and Jadavji Bhimji claiming two more. Sandip Adole was the only batsman in the Sikh Union team who looked capable of putting up a fight against the hosts’ bowling with half a century. Even with six wickets down, Adole was able to get his half century before being dismissed by Saumil Patel after Onyango sprinted from the boundary to complete a stunning diving catch on the 45 yards. Adole had faced 49 balls to score 55 before falling with the board on 79. Tarandeep Singh added on at the end to get his side into triple digits before Jadavji got the last wicket in the 24th over. Earlier Alex Obanda (63) and Maurice Ouma (72) had scored half centuries to lead their side to a comfortable score. Despite losing wickets at regular intervals, the home side was able to surge towards the final total. Patel was the other impressive scorer with 24. At Sir Ali Muslim Club, hosts Obuya Academy saw their match against Kongonis being washed out with Kongonis needing 110 runs with five wickets in hand in their pursuit for 240 runs.