Kenya Airways has cut its loss after tax by 21 per cent to Sh3.8 billion as at September 30, 2017, down from a Sh4.78 billion net loss reported during the same period last year. According to the airline’s chief executive, Sebastian Mikosz, the reprieve is attributable to a 50 per cent rise in its operating profit from Sh949 million to Sh1.4 billion during the period under review. However, the airline recorded a slight drop of 0.42 per cent in revenues from Sh54.75 billion recorded in 2016 to Sh54.52 billion. The drop is despite a passenger increase of 3.3 per cent to 2.3 million. “Political uncertainties following the Supreme Court ruling largely affected operations with domestic and intra-Africa trade going down by about 50 per cent,” Mikosz said. The announcement comes days after the government converted the airline’s debt into equity, giving it a controlling stake in KQ. The conversion brought government’s shareholding to 48.9 per cent, with KLM owning 7.8 per cent, a drop from the initial 26 per cent. The chief executive noted that discussions with KLM on reviewing their partnerships are ongoing. Other shareholders now own 5.2 per cent while the Kenya Airways lenders own 38. 1 per cent. The national carrier, which has had large debts owed to its lenders, mostly banks, seeks to focus on continuous cost reduction, introduction of new revenue streams and network optimisations as a means of going back to profitability. This includes introduction of the approximately $100 million project that will see the introduction of direct flights to New York in the next 12 months. “There is huge traffic from Nairobi to New York. To leverage on potential tourists and a huge diaspora market that answers our choice of New York, we can only hope that this will increase our revenue,” Miskoz said. However he noted that blocked funds owed to them across African countries are some of the challenges affecting their operations. The countries which have locked the funds include Angola and Burundi, with warnings the airline may stop flights to these destinations.  The funds, now standing at approximately Sh2.1 billion, cannot be recovered due to foreign exchange constraints and defaults by bad debtors. Miskoz said the status for these funds is annoying, since banks do not allow them to do currency swapping, and in the end, inflation in some of these countries eats them up.