The Anglo Leasing case against Kisii Senator Chris Obure and three former senior government officials must be heard on February 17, 2018, the anti-corruption court ordered on Monday. Obure and the others are accused of being part of the over Sh56 billion scandal that saw the government lose monies allegedly wired to shadowy companies. It has been said the companies were to execute some 18 communication projects in 2003. In March last year, the former legislator and three others were charged with abuse of office and conspiracy to defraud the government by authorising a Sh928,278,112 contract. This was between the government and USA's Spacenet Corporation. Chahonyo and Kyungu allegedly initiated the procurement of products without following laws whereas Obure and Bundotich, respectively, allegedly authorised and made the payments. The case was scheduled for hearing before trial magistrate Anne Mwangi but did not proceed because defence lawyer Kioko Kilukumi is engaged in petition cases. Read: Anglo Leasing case stalls yet again as lawyer falls ill In the case, Kilukumi is representing former Postmaster General Francis Chahonyo who has been charged alongside ex-Senator Obure, former Information PS Sammy Kyungu, and Samuel Bundotich. The prosecution, led by senior state counsel James Warui, did not object to adjournment but informed the court a witness was ready to testify. Other lawyers led by Chaha Odera informed the court that they were also ready to proceed with the hearing. All the accused persons are charged with abuse of office over a contract signed between the Kenya government and three United States of America (USA) companies who were to supply internet services. Most witnesses who have testified in the case claim the accused grossly inflated prices of the Kenya Prisons Security and Telecommunication project, Kenya Police Airwing project, broadband network and 15 other police security projects without Parliament's approval. The witnesses further informed the court that the accused signed and approved all the security projects without following proper procurement procedures. The magistrate said the case will be heard for three days from February 17,18 and 19 without any delay. Click here for the latest political news