It is always almost expected that at some point, a band will split up or certain members will leave it. There are several well-grounded reasons as to why a group will make this career-changing decision. It could be as a result of conflict among members due to limited creative freedom, or maybe simply because an artiste desires to pursue a solo career.  Well, Ambasa Mandela, real name Nelson Mandela, is one such artiste who thought it best to exit his music group and venture into the music world as an individual. The ex-Sarabi band lead vocalist is now a free man, out to discover and experiment his new sound and style. On Wednesday, Mandela held probably his first, vital solo performance at Nairobi's Alliance Francaise, offering his fanbase a taste of what they should expect in future. You could tell that he has moved on from his disagreement with his former crew and is now at peace. He has quickly embraced the change and has gone ahead to work towards greatness.  During the performance, he offered an acoustic set that combined his latest tracks and some of the popular Sarabi hits — melodies greatly delving into issues of tolerance, appreciation and political commentary. Those who've been around him for a while know he has actively been involved in activism — and that doesn't seem to be going away anytime soon.  It could have been predicted that Mandela's move would have placed him in a precarious position, but fortunately for fans, his career is back on track. He considers Sarabi family and looks forward to sharing a major stage with the group in future. He is also quite appreciative of George Nderitu's contribution to his music. From an outside perspective, especially for those who've known the artiste to channel his energy from his band, the question is whether he will manage to exist alone. From this recent performance, you can tell that he has nothing to worry about. His vocals, presence, attitude and energy are better than they've ever been before.  He plans to end the year with the release his debut EP "Ona Sasa", which will definitely give us a proper perspective of his new sound. All we can hope for is that his decisions help him crank out more and more radio hits and eventually turn him into a proper international enterprise. All the best, Mandela. 