Bishop Cornelius Korir will be buried on Saturday November 11 at the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret town. The date was set following an agreement between the church and the government. The Catholic Church initially wanted the burial to take place on Monday November 6. Bishop Korir died suddenly in his house in Eldoret on Monday morning. A postmortem will be carried out at the Moi Referral Hospital in Eldoret. He was planning to travel to Karen Hospital in Nairobi for treatment when he died. The government said the clergyman was a patriot who dedicated his life to the fight for justice, truth, peace and reconciliation. “We recognise Bishop Korir as a hero. We will team up with the church and ensure we give him the burial he deserves,” Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said. Bishop Korir voted in last week’s repeat presidential election. He was escorted to Central Primary School in Eldoret by area chief William Sang and spent time talking with with voters at the polling station. “I remember him telling voters to keep peace and calling for the unification of all tribes in Kenya.  “It is unfortunate that he died when his wisdom was most needed,” Sang said. Dignitaries, including President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, opposition leaders, governors, diplomats and international guests are expected to attend the burial. The funeral service will be held at the Eldoret Sports Club, the church said. Bishop Phillip Anyollo chaired the meeting that agreed on agrrangements.  Anyollo said the church will give Bishop Korir a deserving send-off.  A special service at Sacred Heart Cathedral on Monday was attended by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno, MPs Oscar Sudi and Sila Tiren and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei.  Anyollo called on political leaders to pursue peace as one way of honouring Bishop Korir.  “Let our political leaders know that we are all in the hands of God. They need not work against the will of God,” Anyollo said.  He is the Homa Bay bishop and chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops.  In his last days, Korir had called for dialogue between striking nurses and the government, saying the work boycott was causing suffering to many poor Kenyans. Bishop Korir’s body will be moved from Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital’s farewell home to St John’s Cathedral on November 10, ahead of his burial the next day.