The United Nations refugee agency has asked the government to register all stateless people living in the country and issue them with ID cards. A report released by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees said statelessness is affecting many minority groups and asked the government to eliminate it. It identified the Pemba, living in Kilifi, as an example of stateless people. The Pemba people are believed to have moved to Kenya from Pemba island in Zanzibar. They are mostly fishermen. Last month, the Pemba asked the state to issue them with identity cards, saying they have been harassed for lacking the document. "The government should eliminate laws that deny people nationality on discriminatory grounds such as race, ethnicity or religion," the report titled "I Belong" says. It is estimated that 75 per cent of the world’s known stateless people belong to minority groups. An estimated 3,500 members of the Pemba community live in Kenya. They have been working in collaboration with the NGOs like Haki Centre and UNHCR to put pressure on the government to recognise them as Kenyans. In January, the community wrote a letter to the Interior ministry asking for official registration. Members said they could not get birth certificates for the children. The document is required for candidates registering for national exams. The Pemba have also complained of difficulties is access government jobs and services because they lack ID cards. UNHCR asked the government to reduce bureaucracy in issuing vital documents to minority groups. Aisha Abdallah, a 45-year-old mother of six, told UNHCR officials some Pemba members have resorted to buying Kenyan parents to help them acquire birth certificates for their children. Other members have also faked their identities to earn registration as Kenyan nationals. "I am not a Bajuni though i used that claim to get an ID," Rashid Bakari said. Rashid Bakari acknowledges he is not stateless in spite his father arriving in Mombasa from Pemba in 1938,and he had to lie about his ancestry to fit in. I am not Bajuni although I claim to be one says Bakari, I am a Pemba, I want to reclaim my rightful ethnic identity. UNHCR asked Kenya to conduct universal birth registration to prevent statelessness affecting minorities and their children. It said children should be allowed to gain the nationality of the country in which they are born. Members of the Pemba community are greatly affected by poverty due to their inability to access loans ,licenses ,IDs and are unable to own property. “I cannot get a fishing license,without which I cannot go deep-sea fishing where the best catch can be found,”says Shaame Hamisi, father of 13 . He said without a Kenyan national ID, he is also illegible for bank loans to purchase fishing equipment I pay rent and fuel money to use my neighbor's boat. He said even he could purchase a boat, he would have to register it under someone else’s name as they cannot own property. “I feel belittled and disgraced by the situation that I am in,”said Hamisi. Most of the members in the Pemba business community decry of inequality they experience while trying to make ends meet due to statelessness. A majority of us are fishermen says Omar Kombo ,and Beach Management Unit deducts 10 Ksh for each kilo of fish that every fisherman on this coast sells. It is supposed to issue the dividends to all contributors for damage done to the boats during the season,but that is usually not what happens he said. “We Pemba get nothing, even if our boats are broken,we are forced to participate in this scheme,and all benefits are given to our Kenyan brothers ,”said Kombo.        