IPOA has launched investigations into the shooting of a seven-year-old boy and an expectant woman in Pipeline, Nairobi. The boy was shot dead as police battled NASA supporters who were to hold a prayer rally at Jacaranda grounds on Tuesday. A witness from The Star said two people died in Soweto after they were shot in the head. Another person sustained a deep cut to the head during the incident that has resurrected claims of the presence of Mungiki militia. Read: Two shot dead in Soweto as police keep NASA supporters off Jacaranda Also read: Cops fire tear gas, seal off Jacaranda grounds ahead of NASA rally IPOA has dispatched its Rapid Response Unit to investigate the incident with a view of establishing circumstances of the shootings. "If culpability will be established, ensuring the officer responsible faces the full force of the law," head of communications Dennis Oketch said in a statement on Wednesday. Oketch said after concluding the investigations, the Authority will make recommendations and forward the investigation file to the ODPP for his attention. "Investigations for elections-related cases are at an advanced stage. We will make known the findings on conclusion of the investigations," he added.  A woman in Eastlands, Nairobi, runs to safety with her two children after police officers took action following an address by NASA leader Raila Odinga, November 28, 2017. /COURTESY  A NASA supporter runs during clashes with police in Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS 'Women beaten' There has been outcry from the public about how police officers handled women during the protests. According to pictures and a spot check by The Star, the women were beaten and dragged around by police. Read: Go to Jacaranda at your own risk, Koome warns, says NASA lying One woman carrying a Maasai shawl was harassed by the police before she started shouting saying God would protect all his people. "Do not be afraid. Maana mimi Mungu niko pamoja na wewe. Usiogope. Nchi ni ya Mungu. I cannot fear...siwezi ogopa kifo. Kama ni kifo, iliandikiwa kila mtu (God is with you. Do not be afraid....I cannot fear death...Everybody will die)she said. She continued to walk passed the police saying that whatever they have carried are just weapons noting that the most important weapon was that of God. "Msijali na hawa ... hizi ni mavazi tu na silaha. Silaha muhimu ni silaha ya Mungu ... msiogope. Mmenipiga lakini Mungu ameona na ametazama ... huo ujasiri alinipea, alinipea juu ya nchi hii ... usiogope juu ya silaha (Don't be afraid of these people...these are mere clothes and weapons. The most important is that which God has... do not be afraid...you have beaten and God has seen you...the courage he ghave me was because of this country....do not be afraid of weapons)," she said.  A police officer pushes a supporter of the National Super Alliance during protests in Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS Another woman held by police pleaded to be set free. These scenes angered many on social media, causing them to ask why police have to manhandle protesters. "Fellow Kenyans This is way disrespectful! If this is the way a nation treats its women then we don’t have any Kenya left," musician Suzanna Owiyo said via Twitter. '@tonybigmile' said: "Terrible. . she is in slippers.. I don't think she can be classified as a rioter by any definition."  Police confront a woman in Eastlands, Nairobi, after taking action following an address by NASA leader Raila Odinga, November 28, 2017. /COURTESY "Atrocious. Woe to those who are building their throne on bloodshed and establishing their rule on iniquity and injustice. Woe unto them," '@VSLaMar' said. '@redibrah' said: "It's clear that this pathetic image of a police force only beats or fights unarmed civilians. Send them to Kapedo and see them resign or ask for transfers!!! Bloody cowards!" Facebook user Joseph Kariuki asked: "Who does this to poor women in their own houses and kiosks? There are good policemen...we have really bad cops." "I'm so saddened by what has become of police. One of them is actually holding a pistol then we hear of stray bullets," Danny Dunhillson said. More on this: Uhuru finally sworn-in as Kenya's President Click here for the latest political news  