The Kamba community is firmly in NASA, six legislators have said, contrary to reports by several Jubilee allies that majority of residents support President Uhuru Kenyatta. The leaders said they will ensure the vision of the National Resistance Movement is fully implemented in the region. Opposition leader Raila transformed NASA into this and said he will work with the people to ensure electoral and other reforms. More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott Led by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, the lawmakers said many residents joined the NRM bandwagon to push for electoral justice. Wambua claimed victory was 'stolen' from Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) in the presidential election. After the repeat on October 26, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati declared President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto will rule for another five years. He reported a turnout of 38.84 per cent and that the President got 98 per cent of all votes cast. Raila withdrew from the election for lack of reforms and wants another election in February. NASA politicians have threatened to swear him in if Uhuru is inaugurated. Related: Arrest Orengo for treason, Embu lawmakers say on Raila swearing-in Wambua was with Kitui woman representative Irene Kasalu, her Machakos counterpart Joyce Kasimbi, Thadeus Nzambia (Kilome), Charles Nguna (Mwingi Central) and Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti). They spoke at Kauwi Primary School grounds in Kitui West constituency during a Harambee in support of 40 AIC churches in the area. The politicians noted Kenyans were forced into civil disobedience to ensure constitutional rights are upheld. The Senator said the resistance and civil disobedience were witnessed on voting day when a majority of Kenyans refused to participate in repeat presidential polls. "The people's assemblies are where the people will meet to express grievances and displeasure with the Jubilee administration and Uhuru's leadership." More on this: Pass People's Assembly motion quickly, Bungoma LSK tells MCAs  