Kajiado leaders told President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday to seek counsel about tricky clan politics before appointing people to government. Former Assistant Minister David Sankori said the Kajiado Maasai are divided into two major clans, the Odomong’i (Red Cows) and Orok-Kiteng’ (Black Cows). Sankori said the Black Cows (Orok-Kiteng’) voted overwhelmingly for Jubilee, while the Red Cows (Odomong’i) supported the opposition. The President should not only consult elected leaders, but also involve opinion leaders, Sankori said. He is an official of the Maasai Council of Elders. “Elected leaders will recommend their relatives. Let him (Uhuru) come to us, we will give him the right people to serve in his government,” he said. Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku said clan and age-set balancing is tricky. He said if not handled well, appointments can cause problems. Lenku (Orok-Kiteng’) defeatedformer Governor David Nkedianye (Odomong’i) in the August 8 poll. The governor played a major in Nkedianye’s defection to Jubilee. Nkedianye’s cabinet was mainly comprised of people from his clan. But Lenku included a member of the opposition. There is concern among the Black Cows that if Nkedianye and Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito — both Red Cows — are appointed in government, the Orok-Kiteng’ will be disadvantaged. Nominated Senator Mary Seneta wants Uhuru to reward the Orok-Kiteng’ for backing Jubilee. But politician Daniel Tenaai said the President should appoint qualified people he knows will deliver. “Dragging clan politics into national issues will not take Kenya anywhere. We want the President to appoint the right people. Clan matters will take us back to a dark history,” he said. Pastor Letuati Umash said the President should not only look at clan issues but also qualified people. “When the President came to Kitengela, he told us he will appoint Nkedianye in his next government. We welcome that. He is qualified and can deliver,” he said. Umash said the Black Cows fear that since the governor is from their clan, appointing Red Cows to government will demean them. Former Kajiado West MP Moses Sakuda said he sees Kajiado as united and does not view it through a clan lens. Any appointment is a blessing, he said. Katoo, the Kajiado South MP, served as Interior minister under President Mwai Kibaki. The Red Cows include Senator Philip Mpaayie, MPs George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East MP), Kanchori Memusi (Kajiado Central MP) and Janet Teyiaa (Woman Representative). Two ambassadors from the region, Lemaron Kaanta and Richard Lemoshira also come from the same clan.