Kenyans on twitter have responded with hilarious comments to a Zimbabwean who sought their advice on how to celebrate a new president. This followed Friday's swearing in of Emmerson Mnangagwa as interim president after Robert Mugabe resigned on Tuesday. Mugabe was the only president Zimbabweans had known for close to two decades since the country’s independence in 1980. The country erupted in dance and song Tuesday night after the 93 year old veteran resigned as Parliament held a sitting to impeach him. Read: Mnangagwa promises financial stability, elections next year Mugabe’s resignation came six days after military leaders seized control of the nation and placed him under house arrest. Once celebrated by Zimbabweans as an iconic revolutionary leader, Mugabe changed tact in the early years of the 21st century and ruled the country with an iron fist. His administration was largely isolated by the international community which visited unrivaled sanctions on the once prosperous nation deemed as the bread basket of Africa.   Read: Theresa May wants Zimbabwe to rejoin international community Zimbabweans sighed with relief upon his exit, but as one Zimbabwean TC@tcwashe put it, albeit sarcastically, they have no idea how to celebrate Mnangagwa’s takeover which is widely seen by many of his countrymen as a new independence.  So @tcwashe asked Kenyans on his twitter handle to give a helping hand.  He tweeted: “Kenyans please help us Zimbabweans, how do u celebrate a new president? We have never had one..do we Party? Do we cry?” Kenyans responded in their numbers with hilarious responses.  @kevykev_254 said: “Considering his( Mnangagwa) nickname is "the crocodile", cry.”  @ythera_mwangi said: “Eassssy TC, do both! And ask for a public holiday while you're at it lol.” “It's a holiday down here on Tuesday. Can you turn-up we show you how we do it. Whole country will be on (fire emoji) & the party will be turnt AF!,” added @KenKariukiM The government has declared Tuesday, November 28, a public holiday during President Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration.     @WENDYRICCH simply said: “We drink” while @LorehMarvin said: “choices have consequences,” followed with a laughing emoji. “You file a petition challenging his presidency,” @SteveNjugz quipped. “We have no idea how computers celebrate bro..they are the ones that vote here...” @Taesontae said in an apparent reference to ‘vifaranga vya computer’, a phrase coined by NASA leader Raila Odinga to imply that President Kenyatta’s win was computer generated.  @r0578 tweeted: “It depends with your surname...is "washe" the luo or kikuyu version in Zim? If its the former expect a lot of teargas they aint allowed to party.” Yet, @RealArthur_N said: “Walk to the river, jump in, get washed away and scream #sirikaliTafathali.”  Another user @scentor said elections in Kenya are stolen and directed @tcwashe to Kenya's neighbour Tanzania.   “Here we steal elections we have never had a democratically elected president so we are the same ask Tanzania.”  @AthiamboFidelis also gave a referral. “Did you try Uganda before coming to us? Coz sincerely our way of celebrations in Kenya is running after the police, and inhaling teargas. Maybe Ugandans can help.”  @EricNjei said Zimbwabwe doesn’t have a new president but rather, a caretaker president. “Have elections fast, then we will advice,” he said.  @CharlesCheno echoed similar sentiments: “Wait until you go for general elections then from there we will revisit your issue..u can as well hire us Kenyans to celebrate on your behalf!!”  Another user @ADB_Gombe, a Nigerian, weighed in on the matter and said: “There is nothing big to celebrate, I'm 27, i have witnessed about 8 different regimes in Nigeria; both as an adult and as a kid. Nothing actually changed, only changes in names but the system and situation remain similar or same.”  @fiffyangell was replied: “This question is for Kenyans. There is a reason Nigeria was left out of it. Thank you.” “With time you discover the more things change, the more they remain the same. Kenyans have been there numerous times,” added Kenfish‏ @kenfish. Mnangagwa is expected to be interim president for the rest of Mugabe’s term until Zimbabweans hold elections in August next year. However, many pundits have argued that his style of leadership will be no different from that of his predecessor considering he was Mugabe's right hand man for many years. They said Mugabe may have left but his dynasty still lives on within ZANU-PF, the party under whose wings Mnangagwa the will rule. Also read: I am not a witch! Mugabe denies he cast an ‘evil spell’ on vice president  Click here for the latest local and world news    