Raila Odinga's return from the USA and Zimbabwe's 'coup' were the top searches on Google between November 11 and 19. Zimbabwe's embattled President Robert Mugabe is facing a deadline set by his own party to resign after his surprise speech on Sunday where he refused to quit. The 'coup' saw the country’s military put President Robert Mugabe under house arrest and his wife reportedly fleeing the country. Details: Mugabe given until noon Monday to quit as Zimbabwe President English Premier League matches - Arsenal vs Tottenham, Manchester United vs Newcastle, Chelsea vs West Brom, Man City Vs Leicester, Crystal Palace vs Everton - trended in second place. 'Raila Odinga return' came third - parts of Nairobi erupted after his 10-day tour of the US that featured discussions about the disputed elections. The National Resistance Movement leader jetted back into the country on Friday and was received by many supporters and leaders, despite police warnings. Chaos took centre stage; five people were killed on that day, vehicles burned, bonfires lit and roads blocked. Read: 'Why do they want to kills us': Raila's supporters served tear gas, bullets Also read: Raila return: NASA moves rally to Kibra, supporters burn vehicles La Liga took fourth place with the Real Madrid vs Atletico Madrid, Leganes vs Barcelona and Roma vs Lazio matches topping the list. Then came Jumia Black Friday as the theme gets grounded in Kenya. Following reports that riotous Kenyatta University students had set one of its buildings on fire, 'Kenyatta University on fire' trended at position six. The institution was closed indefinitely after students went on a rampage. They protested the killing of their female schoolmate, reportedly by boda-boda operators, and the suspension of students elections. The body of the student was found dumped by a road near MK area. Read:Kenyatta University closed indefinitely after students riots Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru's burial took position seven. He died in a grisly road accident on November 7, after about 90 days in office, and was laid to rest on Saturday. At position eight were pre-World Cup friendlies pitting Nigeria against Argentina and England vs Brazil, as teams prepare for 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. In matters showbiz, Tanzanian actress Elizabeth Michael took position nine after a Dar es Salaam High Court found her guilty of causing the death of Bongo movie star Steven Kanumba. Bitcoin closed the list as Kenyans sought to find out more about the cryptocurrency and global digital payment system. A groom in Naivasha, Anthony Mburu paid his dowry using Bitcoin.