The Bungoma County Public Service Board has accused staff at the assembly of colluding with a petitioner to have them removed. Resident Moses Lukoye has filed a petition to the county assembly, accusing the board of abuse of office. In its hearing held at the Bungoma KIE Hall, the board, through lawyer Callistus Shifoka, accused the assembly secretariat of denying them crucial documents in the case to help them defend themselves. “Madam chair, since these hearings started we have had problems getting documents. It is a conspiracy by the assembly secretariat and the petitioner or a deliberate move to deny as evidence,” Shifoka said. This statement seemed to irritate the chair of the Committee of Public Service and Administration Joan Lutukai, who demanded an apology. The board, however, refused to apologise, saying the deliberate move to deny them essential affidavits was likely to injure the quest for justice. “What is there to apologise for? The statement I gave was in good taste and factual. This committee doesn’t need an apology. It should instead investigate why some documents have not reached us,” Shifoka said. The board is further accused of soliciting bribes through proxies, violating the oath of office and facing serious integrity issues. The committee is expected to give its hearing within 60 days since the start of the hearings. If they find the board culpable and the report is adopted by the house the board, whose tenure is to expire next year, it will automatically be dissolved. The members of the board include Gideon Sirai, Bonventure Wasikoyo, Peter Masengeli, Janet Manyasi, Elizabeth Wanyonyi and Stephen Wesonga. The members of the board have on the other hand accused close allies of Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati of using unorthodox means to remove them from office. Through its chairman Gideon Sirai they accuse those close to the governor of sending them death threats and illegally closing their offices. The board was appointed during the tenure of Former Governor Kenneth Lusaka. The incumbent Wangamati wants the board out.