Schools, residential areas and commercial buildings have the poorest installation rates in regard to the mandatory solar water heating systems regulations, the regulator has revealed. “There is a problem with uptake in commercial buildings, universities, schools and residential areas with three bedrooms and above, with compliance ranging between five and 10 per cent,” Energy Regulatory Commission acting director general Robert Oimeke told the Star. The initiative, rolled out in May 2012, required all premises within the jurisdiction of local authorities with hot water requirements of a capacity exceeding 100 litres per day to install and use solar heating systems. The regulations provided for a transition period of five years to May 25 from the date of gazettement for all existing premises to retrofit solar water heaters. Oimeke however said that the deadline was pushed by six months to November 22 as most premises were yet to comply with the requirements. “What we agreed as the regulator was to give a notice of a six-month extension after the May deadline due to lower compliance rates,” he said. Premises targeted under the regulations include domestic residential premises, educational institutions, health institutions, hotels and lodges, restaurants, cafeterias and other eating places as well as laundry facilities. Oimeke lauded the hotel industry which he said had the highest uptake of solar water systems placing the compliance rate above 90 per cent. As at October 5, the regular said that about 77,000 solar-water heating systems had been imported and installed in the country in accordance with the solar water heating regulations. “As much as we have done our part on creating awareness, a lot of people are yet to comply,” Oimeke said. As per the regulations those who do not comply with the new requirements risk one year in jail, a Sh1 million fine, or both. “Come November 22, those who have officially been notified will simply be arrested and taken to court,” he said. The oncoming deadline has spurred financial institutions to capitalize on the situation by partnering with solar heating system providers to offer tailor-made loans for installation of the clean energy systems. Equity Bank has partnered with solar energy company, Orb Energy while Barclays has partnered with Afro Energy Solar Kenya.