Thirdway Alliance of Kenya leader Ekuru Aukot has dismissed as incompetent a suit filed by activist Okiya Omtatah seeking to nullify the the October 26 presidential rerun. Aukot yesterday urged the Supreme Court to reject the case, saying it is “not only a non-starter, but also incurably defective”. “The petition, in form and substance, offends the mandatory provisions of the Supreme Court Act and the Supreme Court Rules 2017, hence the same is unattainable and liable to striking out,” he said. Uhuru was declared winner of the repeat poll. Omtatah says, however, that the incumbent was irregularly elected. This was after his attempt to stop the election and call for the formation of a caretaker government was dismissed by High Court judge Chacha Mwita. He said the withdrawal by NASA candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka from the rerun effectively and irreversibly cancelled the election by operations of the law, thus triggering application of the Constitution on the procedure for fresh elections. NASA had said the IEBC was not ready to conduct a free and fair election as instructed by the apex court during the annulment of the August 8 presidential election. It cited admissions by the chairman of the electoral body, Wafula Chebukati, and former commissioner Roselyn Akombe. Raila said their withdrawal was to trigger fresh polls, beginning from the nomination of candidates. They relied on a 2013 ruling made by the Supreme Court. But Aukot says Raila and Kalonzo voluntarily and of their own volition boycotted the election. He says the NASA leaders were not unlawfully or unjustifiably denied the right to participate in the exercise and cannot claim their rights were arbitrarily infringed upon by the IEBC. In any case, Omtatah should have instead filed an election petition if at all he was dissatisfied with the poll, Aukot added. He said Omtatah has hatched a scheme to dupe the court into determining issues that have already been adequately addressed by the court. “The petition does not disclose any cause of action since he has not established any legitimate interest that has been affected by the conduct of the fresh poll by the IEBC in compliance with order of this court,” Aukot said.