Olympic marathon champion Jemimah Sumgong has landed a four-year ban after she returned an adverse analytical finding (AAF) for erythropoietin (EPO) on a sample provided on February 28 in an out of competition test. Documents seen by the Star and adjudicated by the Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) chaired by John Ohaga in conjunction with the Anti Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) reveal that Sumgong’s medical evidence was faked regarding her alleged receipt of EPO as part of treatment for an ectopic pregnancy at Kenyatta National Hospital. The hearing took place on October 18 with the decision being announced on October 31 where Sumgong was represented by Wahome Ngugi appearing on behalf of WM Njagi and Assocaiates while Adak were represented by Eric Omariba.  Sumgong told the Tribunal that she had undergone the treatment on February 22, receiving blood transfusion and unidentified treatment which she neither disclosed to the Agency nor to her husband/coach Noah Talam. She provided Adak with medical time sheets for the February 22 treatment, which Kenyatta National Hospital said were not authentic indicating that her records at the hispital can only be traced from April 18. KNH added that EPO is not routinely used for the said condition and that all patients with that condition are admitted for at least four days where patients are issued with a discharge sheet detailing date of admission, diagnosis, treatment accorded and date of discharge. Sumgong in her defence argued that the doctor who treated her could have been an imposter due to a doctor’s strike that was ongoing at the time. Her explanation was rejected by ADAK. “In ADAK’s view, as the athlete works with the KDF [Kenya Defence Forces], she had access to the Armed Forces Memorial Hospital which was a short distance from KNH and no explanation had been given for the athlete’s decision to seek medical attention at KNH rather than the medical facility available to the Athlete by virtue of her employment,” read Adak’s submission. “It was Adak’s position that the substance was being used for the preparation of the London Marathon.” The panel observed that Sumgong did not disclose the treatment February 22 treatment on the Doping Control Form (DCF), having been administered less than seven days prior to sample collection (February 28).  “Indeed, we might go as far as to state that the Athlete’s attempt to explain how the substance entered her body bordered on an attempt to deceive the Panel in view of the Hospital’s denial that the Athlete attended the Hospital for any treatment whatsoever,” it concluded. The Panel determined that Sumgong should serve a four-year ban from April 3, 2017, the date on which she was provisionally suspended by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF). This means that Sumgong is likely to lose her 2017 World Marathon Majors (WMM) title as stated by organisers. Under Article 13.2 of the World Anti Doping code, she has 21 days in which to appeal the decision, meaning that any appeal must be filed with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) by 20 November.