President
Uhuru Kenyatta has put up a spirited fight to demonstrate to the Supreme Court
why it should not invalidate his election for a second time, even as NASA made
a last-minute entry into the case.  The
Jubilee candidate has filed a total of 13 affidavits sworn by, among others, the
National Assembly Aden leader of Majority Aden Duale and chief agents David
Chirchir and Winnie Guchu. The
President, in his response to two different petitions challenging his election,
tackled the claims of alleged illegality of the October 26 election, and claims
that the new election laws were passed to curtail use of technology in elections
and alleged control of the electoral commission by his party Jubilee, among
other things.  The
two cases were filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau and activists Njonjo Mue
and Khelef Khalifa.  Also
pending before the court is another case, which is not an election petition but
seeks the formation of a caretaker government. In
the replies, the President contends that Khalifa, being a registered member of
ODM, cannot purport to file the case which arises out of the wrongdoing of his
own party. It is ODM’s candidate Raila Odinga who withdrew from the last
election, in effect sabotaging the exercise and as such his party cannot
challenge the results. According
to Chirchir, NASA did not appoint any agents for the October 26 poll as the
only ones present were agents of candidates who took part in the election. On
the issue of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission being allegedly
controlled by Jubilee Party to give a favourable election date, the court was
told that this is a mere rumour. The
President argues that the election date setting was within the period
stipulated by the Supreme Court and the IEBC, among other things, considered a
suitable date with the form four and class eight national exams timetable in
mind because schools are used as polling centers. As
a result the claim that it was being controlled by Jubilee does not even arise,
the court was told. The
Supreme Court was also told that the new election laws complained of did not in
any way seek to diminish the role of technology in elections.  To
the contrary, Duale said, the new law only sought to provide clarity on what
would happen in the event that technology fails, with a view to securing the
credibility of the election results.  Mue
and Khalifa had argued that the decision by Parliament to pass new election
laws has an effect of opening the election results to manipulation and signals
voters that it would not be possible to successfully challenge the election
results, even if they were unconstitutional. But
Duale believes that the two have misunderstood the Constitution and the law on the
role of Parliament as lawmakers. The
new laws, he said, aim at remedying one of the key issues that came up at the Supreme
Court, touching on lack of clarity in relation to the law on transmission of
Presidential results.   Duale
said Parliament moved to amend the Election Laws to cure what the Supreme Court
had pointed out when it voided Uhuru’s  August 8 victory. “During
the hearing of the Presidential election petition, it was evident that there
was lack of clarity in the law relating to the transmission of Presidential
results and the complementary system envisioned under Section 44 of the
Elections Act,” he says. He
adds: “Consequently, and in view of the above interpretation challenges,
Parliament sought to bring clarity to the enabling law and regulation, and
secure without doubt the expectations regarding the conduct and management of
the election, as well as the parameters for invalidation of an election”. President
Uhuru will be represented by more than 15 lawyers in the legal battle, among
them Fred Ngatia, Hannan el Katiri, Ken Ogeto, Kimani Kiragu, Katwa Kigen, Tom
Macharia, Gideon Solonka, Mayian Sankale, Hillary Sigei, Carol Githae and
Annette Kithu. On
its part NASA is accusing the President and the electoral body of engaging in
malpractices. Consequently,
it wants the Supreme Court to take issue with Uhuru’s statements following the
nullification of the August 8 polls targetting the judges who voted to
annul his win. In
an affidavit, the party head of presidential campaign, Musalia Mudavadi, 
accuses the IEBC, saying it frustrated all efforts made to hold its commissioners
accountable for the illegalities and irregularities committed in the August 8
polls. Had
the commission agreed to resolve the issues, Mudavadi says, NASA would have
participated in the fresh polls. “On
October 10, 2017, after evaluating the atmosphere of violence
and intimidation that had been created by the 3rd Respondent (Uhuru) and
the failure of the 1st and 2nd Respondent, the IEBC and Chairman Wafula
Chebukati, to meaningfully engage and implement reforms and changes the 4th
Respondents (NASA) had suggested aimed at creating a level playing field for
all the Presidential candidates, NASA resolved to withdraw its candidate from
the Presidential race,” adds Mudavadi.  Mudavadi
further says the decision by Uhuru, through acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, 
to withdraw the security detail of the two NASA leaders also formed of the
basis to withdraw from the repeat race. “In
response thereto, NASA commenced a series of voter education drives to inform
its supporters that its candidates were not part of any exercise to be
conducted on 26th October, 2017,” he said in the 15-page affidavit. Upon
receiving documents from all he parties yesterday, the apex court is expected
to conduct a pre-trial conference on Tuesday to iron out issues that need to be
determined and time allocation to each party to argue its case. The
Justice David Maraga-led seven judge Bench will on Wednesday start hearing
three cases related to the repeat presidential election.  Khalifa
and Mue based their case on grounds that no nominations were carried out for
the repeat presidential election, the principle of universal suffrage was violated
and the IEBC was not independent, impartial or neutral. The
suit alleges the election was conducted in an environment rife with violence,
intimidation and blatant breaches of the law. “A
nomination certificate issued to a candidate under Section 14 of the Elections
Act is valid only for the election for which it is issued,” they said. Mue
argues Raila’s withdrawal ought to have automatically triggered vacation of the
scheduled election. The
two petitioners accuse the IEBC chairman of making irrational, inconsistent and
unpredictable decisions, especially in limiting the election to only two
candidates and then amending the ballot to include other names. Yesterday
Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot applied to be joined as an interested
party in the petition challenging President Uhuru’s October 26 win.  