President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have asked Kenyans to follow in the footsteps of the late Bishop Cornelius Korir. They said the country's leaders should borrow lessons from the peace efforts championed by the departed cleric. The Head of State said Bishop Korir will be remembered for his unwavering desire to see a united and prosperous Kenya. “We have lost a man who loved Kenyans and used all the opportunities he got to preach peace.” He spoke during Korir's burial on Saturday at the Eldoret Sports Club. The funeral service was led by Cardinal John Njue and other clergy from different parts of the country. Uhuru said the current political stalemate must not be allowed to divide Kenyans further along ethnic lines.  “Let us resolve our problems through our Constitution and let us compete in peace,” the president said.  The president said Kenyans should take advantage of the country's mature democracy and avoid measures that can result into bloodshed and death. Uhuru is facing a vigorous campaign against his legitimacy in office following the resistance movement launched by his main opponent Raila Odinga. The ODM leader is demanding fresh elections in February saying the October 26 vote was a sham. Raila has also asked his supporters to boycott products of companies believed to have worked with Jubilee to rig elections in Uhuru's favour. But the president struck a conciliatory tone saying his opponents should appreciate that he is a person who lives by the law. "Our democracy is growing...yes, we can disagree but we can also use the institutions of power that have been given to us by the Constitution." He added: "Even if we are to compete against each other, let us do it in peace. That is the only prayer I have."  President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto attending the burial of the late Bishop Cornelius Korir in Eldoret on November 11,2017. /PSCU Deputy President William Ruto also urged Kenyans to live together as one nation and avoid being divided along tribal lines. He said Bishop Korir played a big role in creating peace in conflict areas. “He taught us unity, he taught us to refuse, resist and reject division, ethnicity and violence; and he was firm,” said the DP.  “That is why we celebrate his life as a champion of peace. We will commit and recommit ourselves that our great country Kenya we will not go the direction it did in 2007," Ruto said. Both Uhuru and Ruto agreed to walk in the footsteps of the late Korir who championed the unity Kenyans.  "We have lost a person who loved Kenya, he used every means available to preach peace," Uhuru said. "His respect for human dignity irrespective of their colour, tribe or religion is one that I learned from him." "I will use everything available to ensure that we live in a peaceful country because this is the back bone of development," he said. The president also said that he was going to fulfill one of the bishop's dream of building a girls' secondary school in Seguitet, Bomet county. He said the government will donate Sh20 million for the project.  Several MPs, governors and their deputies were among leaders who attended Bishop Korir's funeral. Also read: Thousands gather in Eldoret for Bishop Cornelius Korir's burial Korir was praised for the commendable work in building schools and advocating for the rights of the girl child not only in Eldoret but across the country. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen urged all leaders in the North Rift to walk in the footsteps of the late bishop. "So many people benefited from his projects. I am one of them. All those projects that he started in Marakawet and Pokot must be finished especially that of uniting the two warring communities." Bishop steered the Eldoret Diocese for the last 27 years before he breathed his last breath on October 30.  More on this : [VIDEO] Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir is dead  