The sugar industry is on the brink of collapse unless drastic and radical measures are taken immediately to salvage it. The regulator, the Agriculture Fisheries and Food Authority, has failed to tame the forces responsible. The government, and particularly the Ministry of Agriculture, has failed to take any action as the situation gets out of control. The first, and most deadly, driving force erupted more than six years ago and has never been brought under control — sugarcane poaching. This was triggered by West Sugar Company, which does not have contracted sugarcane farmers to supply the raw material. The worst-affected companies, which continue to reel from the debilitating crisis, are the giant Mumias, Nzoia and Butali, as well as the yet-to-be commissioned Busia Sugar Industries — all in the former Western province. In the former Nyanza province, though poaching is not a problem, the only companies hanging on are Sony Sugar, Chemelil and Kibos. Miwani and Muhoroni are on their deathbeds, despite persistent receivership efforts. The poaching crisis in Western has become so bad that West Kenya and Kibos are buying immature sugarcane that is less than 12 or 10 months. This is transported hundreds of kilometres, especially from Busia county, to West Kenya’s Kabras Sugar Mill in Kakamega county and Kibos Sugar in Kisumu county nearly 200km away. This distance shows how desperate the demand for sugarcane is. Mumias Sugar’s CEO Nashon Aseka says the factory, which began production last month after a seven-month shutdown, is starved of raw material to meet its daily production demands and operate at maximum capacity. The factory has the capacity of crushing more than 400,000 tonnes of sugarcane per day. It is the only factory in East and Central Africa using the modern diffuser technology to produce sugar and other byproducts. The high cost of production is another force that is driving the sugar industry to its deathbed. In Comesa countries sugar production is estimated to be at $500 (Sh51,850 ) per tonne. The Competition Authority of Kenya’s recent report shows that the cost of producing sugar in Kenya is $1,250 (Sh106,250 ) per tonne. This is the highest in the region and more than double the global average of $500 per tonne. The high cost of production has seen Kenya restrict the space of its partners in Comesa in an effort to lower this cost. It, however, continues to soar, with raw materials taking more than 40 per cent ,while 30 per cent goes to transport and the rest to factory overhead, including distribution costs. This state of affairs has seen rampant illicit importation of cheap sugar from Comesa member states and South America to meet deficit in the local market. The county produces an estimated 520,000 tonnes of sugar against an annual consumption of 740,000, leaving a deficit of 220,000 tonnes. With giants like Mumias Sugar operating not even at a quarter of its capacity, the sugar produced is definitely less than the 520,000 tonnes. The other millers are not operating at their maximum capacities. Since the 1980s only two sugar factories have been set up — Kibos in Kisumu and Busia Sugar Industries in Busia. The former is already operational, but the latter has been plagued with wild and reckless legal battles engineered by its competitors even before the groundbreaking of its factory at Busibwabo. Though 95 per cent complete and ready to start production, it has faced more than 12 legal battles to stop construction of the milling facility. Currently there are three legal battles in courts. These have delayed the commissioning; production was supposed to begin more than two years ago. In the process apart from the exorbitant expenditures being incurred by the investor, the farmers who were contracted by the company to plant sugarcane to supply raw material are stuck with a crop in their farms — yet another nail in the sugar industry’s coffin. Barasa is a journalist and a media consultant, jobarasa@gmail.com.       