Jubilee performed poorly in Mombasa because of Tourism CS Najib Balala and former senator Hassan Omar, Annania Mwaboza has said. The deputy president William Ruto's legal advisor said the two did not marshal votes yet Jubilee had a chance of getting 150,000 votes in the county. President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta garnered over 78,000 votes in the October 26 election, down from the 99,190 he got in the annulled August 8 vote. Mwaboza said their plan to marshal more votes was bungled, further blaming Balala and Omar for not working hard to bring the desired numbers. Mombasa is a NASA stronghold and largely voted for Opposition leader Raila Odinga in August. "Omar and Balala were hyped for nothing. They want to ride on Suleiman Shahbal, Karisa Nzai and my sweat," Mwaboza said on Wednesday. In August, Shahbal and Nzai lost Mombasa governor and Jomvu MP seats respectively. Omar ditched Wiper for Jubilee - a party he once said its leadership is inept and incompetent - after he was defeated by Governor Hassan Joho. Mwaboza said he was in charge of campaigns and mobilization in Kisauni and Nyali whereas Shahbal was to mobilise votes in Likoni and Mvita. "Nzai was tasked to lead Jomvu and Changamwe. I delivered 32,000 votes, Shahbal 25,000 and Nzai 21,000," he said in interview with The Star. "Where are Sarai (Omar) and Balala's votes? Balala should tell us why we got 21,000 votes less than what we had in August." Balala and Omar have, however, on Saturday said their performance was overboard adding that repeat elections worldwide have suffered lower voter turnout. Omar said there was no single obligation for Uhuru to get the same number of votes he received in the annulled election. But Mwaboza said the duo was never serious about helping Uhuru make inroads in the region. "We mistakenly thought they will top up the August numbers to about 150,000 votes but we didn't see them," Mwaboza said. "They said they will oversee the entire county which they didn't. Shahbal and I went out of the way to fight NASA's no election call." Political observers in Mombasa have said the unending fuss has to do with 2022 politics where Mwaboza, Omar and Shahbal are likely to fight it out. Mwaboza sees Omar as a spoiler and is likely to invent strategies to edge him out. When he was unveiled on October 8, Mwaboza said Omar is a hypocrite, clutching on straw and holding on to 'flimsy reeds' to save himself. "They have panicked because Nzai and I have been fronted. I'm a Chonyi and Nzai is Giriama with stronger backing and so the are smearing mud on us." "They should know things have changed. We cannot be the majority but minority in terms of planning and strategy," Mwaboza said. Omar appears to be Ruto's blue-eyed boy following a statement the DP made a day after the ex-legislator joined Jubilee. "Let me welcome the person who is going to be the governor of Mombasa InShaAllah (God willing)," Ruto said. Omar's inclusion only fanned the infighting and smear campaigns that have been dogging the party. Distraught members - mostly allied to Shahbal or Mwaboza - say he is not principled and cannot be trusted with leadership. Balala is being fought because he has an edge in Jubilee and matters to deal with county leadership and also has Uhuru's ear.   But locally, Balala is facing stronger opposition whereas Shahbal's men see him as threat to their boss' rise in the coast politics. Read: Omar to play key role in Ruto’s campaign for President in 2022