The rancourous rivalry between Deputy President William Ruto and opposition chief Raila Odinga has been reignited. Ruto implied on Thursday in a tweet that it was all about thwarting his own presidential ambitions in 2022. “So, Tinga went all the way to the USA to seek support to scuttle the possibility of a son of a peasant from being elected prezo in 2022! Balaa!,” Ruto tweeted  Jubilee jumped in. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said on Friday Ruto is the most energetic figure in Jubilee andsaid Raila is jealous of Ruto’s rising star. Senator Majority Leader and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said one family —implying Raila’s — has colonised Nyanza for 55 years. On Thursday, Raila had told an audience in Washington, DC, that only two communities — the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin — have produced Presidents since Independence and the “next one” (DP Ruto) was preparing to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta when his term ends in 2022. The former Prime Minister is lecturing and meeting US officials, foreign policy and governance experts. The “current artifi cial majority” being enjoyed by the Jubilee alliance is one of the obstacles in Kenya’ quest for political reforms and genuine democracy, Raila said. Jubilee aims to rule until 2032 and has targeted severe damage to institutions, including the IEBC and the Judiciary,” Raila told the Centre for Strategic and International Studies. “This is because we have had Presidents from two tribes and another one from the same {Ruto] 1997 Raila & Ruto found themselves working together in KANU after merger. Raila rose to Secretary General post is preparing to take over after 2022. [This is] a direct death for democracy, yet this is supposed to stimulate development, as exhibited after the move from single to multiparty politics.” Ruto — the heir apparent — quickly hit back at Raila on Twitter, implying all Raila’s agitation was aimed and prevent him from entering State House. At the heart of the Raila-Ruto divide are Uhuru and Ruto’s ICC cases, Mau Forest evictions and the disputed 2013 election. The two men had worked closely in 2005 referendum campaign and fought on the same side in 2007. Last month the DP challenged Raila led a mass walkout from KANU after Moi named Uhuru as his successor. Ruto remained in KANU 2002 Raila to face him in the 2022 presidential race and told him to prepare for battle. “Since you withdrew from the fresh poll , why are you demonstrating and causing commotion? Allow us to elect President Kenyatta on October 26 and prepare to meet me at the ballot in 2022, if by then you will be ready,” Ruto said. Duale accused the opposition of targeting the DP because of his hard work. “The DP is a son of a peasant farmer somewhere in Rift Valley, unlike some of our friends in the opposition who have grown up in privileged families, including Raila. They are unhappy with DP’s rising star,” he said. He said Ruto has broad support. “We are behind him as he seeks votes for the President. Have you seen anyone more energetic in Jubilee? He has been to every corner of this country campaigning hard for party and the President.” Murkomen said it is Raila who has taken his community hostage. He told him to stop blaming others for his four failed runs for the presidency. “Forget community. One family has colonised the people of Nyanza for over 55 years,” he said. Uhuru and Ruto entered into a pact by which each will serve for 10 years as President. Ruto has played a major role in Jubilee’s double victories 2013 and 2017. Uhuru’s August 8 reelection was overturned by the Supreme Court and the October 26 rerun was a one-horse race, since Raila had withdrawn, saying it was not credible. That too is being challenged before the apex court. If his win is upheld, he will pass the baton to Ruto in five years. If not, the situation and Ruto’s prospects are far from rosy, the deal would unravel. The bare-knuckle exchange between Ruto and his former friend-turned-foe has reopened their longstanding difference. The love-hate relationship between Ruto and Raila goes back to the 2002 General Election when the former supported then- Kanu leader and now President Uhuru, while latter backed former President Mwai Kibaki. Kibaki won and formed the government in which Raila, who had declared “Kibaki Tosha,” was appointed Minister for Roads and Public Works. Ruto took over as the Kanu secretary general, while Uhuru remained chairman and party leader. They were the face of the opposition in Parliament. No sooner had the NARC government been formed, Raila and Kibaki fell out, forcing Raila to join forces with the Uhuru- and Ruto-led opposition.They successfully campaigned against the draft Constitution in the 2005 referendum under the Orange banner. This saw the birth of ODM before the 2007 polls. Ruto backed Raila, Uhuru supported Kibaki. Kibaki, running on the PNU ticket, won the disputed 2007 general election, which was challenged by Raila. The disputed reelection resulted in a post-election conflagration that forced the two into a power-sharing deal. Raila recently said it was Ruto who pushed for the nusu mkate government. Raila and Kibaki formed the Grand National Government of unity. Ruto was appointed minister for Agriculture, Uhuru was Deputy PM and minister of Finance. The ICC investigated the post election violence — Uhuru and Ruto were among the six Kenyans who were named as being behind the violence. It was generally felt in political circles that Raila used his international networks to ‘fix’ Uhuru and Ruto and have them charged with crimes against humanity. This presumably, would eliminate his main challengers in 2013. Uhuru and Ruto were not banned from contesting. Their cases later collapsed. On the ODM side, Raila picked Ruto as powerful minister of Agriculture, a position Ruto used to create a national profile. While he was in charge, the ministry was rated among the best performing. Th e cordial relationship didn’t last long as Raila attempted in 2010 to suspend Ruto from the ministry, claiming he was involved in the maize scandal. Ruto later was moved to then ministry of Higher Education where he also performed well and surprised many who thought that he was being punished by being given a low-profile portfolio. In 2009, a ask force chaired by PM Odinga ordered the eviction of squatters from the Mau Forest, that was being destroyed. Ruto saw an opportunity and championed the squatters, a populist move. The division widened. The Ruto-Raila rift was evident before the 2013 election when Ruto attempted to acquire a somewhat dormant United Democratic Movement. The DP accused Raila of behind a case fi led in the High Court aiming to stop him from taking over the party had spend substantial resources to revive. Ruto eventually abandoned the party and founded his own United Democratic Movement. In the 2013 election, he entered into a coalition with Uhuru’s National Alliance Party. The duo won but Raila challenged the victory in the Supreme Court. Raila linked the DP to alleged rigging and most politicians from Nyanza blame him for the defeat. Yesterday Ruto close allies dismissed Raila. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo said the DP has worked hard to build his political career and has a democratic right to run for President.