Aisha Noor, popularly known as Truphena of the Real Househelps of Kawangware, says she left the show amid personal tragedies, but it was time to move on. "Si kutoka tu ghafla," she told Word Is. "Maisha yangu yote haikua kwa TRHK. Nilitoka kwa sababu nilifeel I have enough exposure na niliitumia kujijenga na kunifikisha mahali ninataka. My mission is to bring people together, through my organisations I feel nitaachieve hiyo dream." She added, "Tangu niquit nilipata job nikaona niendelee kuliko kukaa idle nimefungua youtube channel. The most important thing is the content, I thought I had to advance, leave alone acting I can sing, dance and host, I have my own band already." Truphena says since her son died, she has given up on relationships. "Currently I'm not dating and I'm not searching. Sioni kama relationships are serious things. Sina hiyo time. After my son passed, niliona hakuna haja ya kuongeza mwingine coz I already have a daughter, I will adopt watoi wengine niwalee." She then confirmed the rumour that she had been arrested after a friend to her boyfriend ran away with a crew's camera. "My boyfriend si ati ndio ako na shida, yeye alitumana kwangu he was not around, I took a camera under my name and I gave the guy, the guy akapotea nayo, he doesn't take things seriously, I told the owner of the camera I will pay, he thought ni kama namchezea, sasa ikakua ni hivo nikashikwa, nikapelekwa cell, nilifika hadi Lang'ata nikatoka na bond, nikahave kupeleka mtoi ushago ndio nishigukilie kesi. Hapo ndio mtoi alipass." Talking about sexual harassment from producers, Aisha tells youngings to only use their talents to the top
"Story kama hizo nimezisikia lakini haijanifanyikia, na siwezitake inifanyikie na ile siku itanifanyikia huyo mtu naye atakoma. Mimi husema kama unajiamini na talent yako, explore na talent yako si lazima ulale na yeye ndio upate kazi." So what's her next project? "Tunataka kufungua programme ya kutembelea wafungwa na mayatima, kutafuta new talent."