The government must immediately de-escalate tensions between communities, Amnesty International country director Justus Nyang’aya has said. Nyang’aya asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to prioritise Kenyans and protect their rights as enshrined in the constitution. "If Uhuru is to succeed in healing the divisions generated by the polls, he must also ensure justice and accountability for the dozens of Kenyans killed or injured in the violence and as a result of excessive use of force by police that has marred this year’s election cycle," he said. The Supreme Court on Monday upheld Uhuru's re-election in the re-run as two key petitions against the victory lacked merit. More on this: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 The cases were by former Kilome MP Harun Mau, International Commission of Jurists Kenya chapter chair Njonjo Mue and Muhuri boss Khelef Khalifa. NASA leader Raila Odinga said the ruling does not change their view of the Jubilee government as illegitimate. While Jubilee strongholds broke out in celebration, NASA supporters held violent protests that went late into Monday night. Read: Remain calm, don’t be provoked by court ruling, NASA supporters told In a statement on Monday evening, Nyang’aya said the government must protect people and ensure their safety during protests. "While police have a duty to maintain order, protesters must be allowed to freely and peacefully express themselves without fear of being shot at or harmed by the police," he said. Nyang’aya said a witness told Amnesty that groups of young men in Kondele, Kisumu, were carrying out house searches, looking for ethnic Kikuyu residents, harassing them and looting their homes. He said three groups tried to enter his compound and that his neighbour’s gate was torn down forcing him and his family to flee for their own safety.  "In the last days and months, the police have fired indiscriminately at crowds killing or injuring protesters. Kenya’s police have a duty to protect people from violence," Nyang’aya said. But Nyang’aya noted that the police must do so in a way that respects both national and international law.  "This election has caused enough bloodshed. No more lives should be needlessly lost due to excessive use of force by the police," he said. Nyang’aya said they confirmed six deaths, including a 29-year-old woman and an 18-year-old man who were killed in Nairobi a day before the ruling. "While the police have denied responsibility, their investigations into the incidents are under way," he said. Also read: Police intensify patrols in tense Kawangware amid fears of violence