Mijikenda elders have accused Governors Hassan Joho and Amason Kingi of disrespect for reigniting calls for Coast's secession without consulting them. The two governors are sons of the Mijikenda. Tradition requires that elders have a say in decisions made by their sons. It is also a common practice that leaders consult the elders whenever they intend to make big political decisions. The elders on Tuesday said Joho and Kingi did not consult them before they announced Coast's intention to breakaway from the rest of Kenya. They asked Kenyans to ignore the two governors. "We treat their call as that meant for personal gains. We are not part of it because we were not consulted,” Mijikenda Council of Elders chairman Daniel Gamba said. He spoke in Mtwapa, where the elders met to deliberate the new development. “We support a united Kenya and not Coast secession,” Gamba said. They warned of serious consequences, saying those pushing for secession never lived under the Sultanate of Zanzibar who ruled the region before independence. The region officially became part of Kenya on October 8, 1963 after founding President Jomo Kenyatta signed agreements with the Prime Minister of Zanzibar and the Secretary of State for British colonies. The elders urged political leaders to promote unity and not divisions along political boundaries. Elders from seven sub-tribes of the Mijikenda living in Kilifi attended the meeting. Kauma Council of Elders vice chairman John Munga said Joho and Kingi should be blocked from speaking about secession. “It is a dangerous talk. The leaders ought to sit together and forge a way forward of developing the region rather than calling for self-rule,” Munga said. Faraj Mwangome, who is also the Kilifi county chairman for Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics Faraj Mwangome warned against secession. He said self-rule push will cause chaos and religious and ethnic conflicts. “We have seen secession agitation before and it led to bloodshed and disharmony,” Mwangome said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to pardon seven youth from the county who were jailed in 2013 for being members of ex-secessionist group Mombasa Republican Council. They were jailed in connection with the brutal murder of 14 people, including six police officers in the Coast region. “It will be a sign of goodwill,” he said.