Who is blackmailing Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju by flooding blogs and social media updates that he is spying for NASA? Corridors wonder what might be the interests and the people behind the propaganda, since the former CS and former PM differed a long time ago? A mole within Jubilee told Corridors the system might have used Tuju and it’s time to dump him. ******  Word has it that a number of Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries are a worried lot after President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner of the repeat election. The reason that has caused them anxiety is a number of them are not likely to make a comeback in the much-awaited government reshuffle. Some are said to have started using private vehicles when going to work – “to get used to” them in case they are kicked out. Talk about a dry run. ******  A state operative known for having dubious academic papers was all over the place at the IEBC National Tallying Centre at the Bomas of Kenya. For some time, there have been questions about the man’s role in elections. However, his presence, even before indications the commission would announce results of the controversial presidential rerun, has deepened the controversy. Days before the August 8 poll, there were claims the man had sample ballot papers. He is also said to have a very secretive office — not very far from State House. At the Bomas of Kenya, the man walked around with an attitude, hobnobbing with the mighty and the powerful in expensive suits. *** Some NASA MPs were yesterday heard questioning if the youths who attacked a Citizen TV reporter at the Wiper offices were really NASA-allied youths. The legislators, our mole heard, were blaming Jubilee infiltration of their youths, wondering why such attacks had not happened before. The lawmakers now want thorough vetting of youths attending their functions. ***** Where did the self-proclaimed Raila Odinga “blood brother”, ex-Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi, vanish to, after being trounced in the August poll? He has been missing in action since he lost his seat on the Jubilee Party. Many have been eager to know the whereabouts of the comical Aburi, who a day barely passed without hitting the airwaves with his political humour. The former legislator only showed up in public when President Uhuru Kenyatta took his repeat poll campaigns to Meru, then disappeared from the public limelight. He has never been seen among Jubilee poll losers in Mt Kenya and across the country who unveiled various campaign teams to assertively campaign for Uhuru’s reelection with the hope of landing government jobs.