Jubilee is using former ANC secretary general Godfrey Osotsi to destabilise the party so leader Musalia Mudavadi doesn't stand a chance in 2022, the party chairman has claimed. National chairman Kelvin Lunani said the Nominated MP is using privileges granted by Amani National Congress to mount opposition at Parliament, using proxies. In a statement on Thursday, Lunani claimed the plot stemmed from Jubilee mandarins' desire to ensure Mudavadi, who is a NASA principal, does not have a strong party in five years, as was the case in 2013. “The script has all the hallmarks of how Jubilee caused instability in UDF after the 2013 election, because the so-called petitioners unlawfully prefer the Registrar of Political Parties rather than reporting any grievance to the internal dispute mechanism." On Monday, eight party members filed petitions before the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung’u, seeking to quash the appointment of Barrack Muluka as party secretary general. They claimed the appointment by Mudavadi was neither procedural nor consistent with their constitution. More on this: Barrack Muluka appointed ANC secretary general, Mudavadi happy Lunani said those being used by Osotsi to destabilise the party “through fake petitions” were not party members but “busybodies” He further accused the former SG of subverting the party, saying he did not say why he deprived it of representation by abandoning and trading in the ANC Nairobi senator nomination ticket in the last election. “Osotsi may have panicked after the decision of the NEC and Parliamentary Group to audit election financial records, claims of financial and integrity impropriety and malpractices by some officials during the election period," he added. Lunani noted the impending audit is a normal exercise that does not target anyone but warned that "those who feel guilty should be very afraid". The chairman said the party expects Osotsi to handover all their property and surrender all records given to him during his tenure. He said the records will ensure all party meetings took place as provided for in its constitution. The records will also determine whether proper minutes were taken for all meetings of the NEC, the National Governing Council and the National Delegates Convention. They will also examine distribution of the minutes and conveyance of decisions to relevant people and party offices. Reached for his views on the allegations, Osotsi said: "No comment." On Tuesday, the Nominated lawmaker said Jubilee’s efforts to get a super majority by luring NASA MPs and promising goodies will leave him the last man standing in the alliance. Osotsi urged his fellow NASA MPs to remain firm, saying: “I assure Jubilee that I will be the last person to leave NASA. I am priceless,” he said. Read: JP bid for super majority won’t work – Osotsi Click here for the latest political news