Politicians and top civil servants who campaigned for President Uhuru Kenyatta are already lobbying for cabinet positions, the Star has reliably established . A source within the jubilee inner circles told the star that those eying appointments from the region include Former MPs Ababu Namwamba - Budalangi, Paul Otuoma- Funyula,Yusuf Chanzu-Hamisi, Arthur Odera - Teso South ,Mary Emase- Teso North,and David Were- Matungu. Others jostling for the positions of principal secretary include KRA Director Evans Kakai, politician John Chikati from Tongaren, Kakai Bisau who vied for the jubilee gubernatorial in Trans-nzoia and former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga . Water CSs Eugene Wamalwa and his environment counter part Judy Wakhungu are also said to be lobbying to retain their positions . A close source told the Star that regional balancing within the counties of Bungoma,Trans-nzoia ,Vihiga ,Kakamega and Busia is to play the major role. "At least the President will be keen to ensure that every county gets a slot unlike last time that some counties in the region were left out making Jubilee penetration very difficult in the region ," the source said. Isaac Wanjekeche, a political commentator allied to Jubilee however told the the Star, that apart from the regional balancing ,Ruto's succession politics is likely to determine the cabinet . "The coming cabinet is likely to be purely a Ruto cabinet. The Deputy President will want to have a young and aggressive cabinet that will Marshall his votes in 2022," Wanjekeche said. Wanjekeche said that in a county like Busia, it will be a fight between Otuoma and and Ababu . "I foresee a situation where Otuoma will be rewarded with a bigger position like a Cabinet Secretary or principal secretary with Ababu falling to a smaller position due to Otuoma's seniority ," Wanjekeche added. He said Bungoma county is likely to garner more positions because of the number of votes the region delivered in both the August and the repeat polls. Those being mentioned for appointments from Bungoma county include Kakai and John Chikati. Kakai enjoys a good rapport with the Deputy President William Ruto. He also played a crucial role in organising and sponsoring lobby groups for women and youth who supported Uhuru's re-election. "Kakai will have an upper hand, because of his heavy presence during Jubilee campaigns ,if you followed up Jubilee campaigns, you would think he was vying for a political seat," Wanjekeche said. In Vihiga county,former Governor Moses Akaranga and former Hamisi's Yusuf Chanzu who crossed over after the August election when they lost their various seats are also eyeing for a position in cabinet . Trans-nzoia county already has Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and this will complicate matters. Wanjekeche told the Star yesterday that it is likely that President and his Deputy will likely to try and have the face of the entire country and therefore limiting the chances of politicians from western eyeing positions . "This time round the President will not make a mistake of having a cabinet from only two regions as this might make his governance really tricky owing to the already polarised country," Wanjekeche said. He said Deputy President's keen eye on the Western region will play a key role in how many slots the region gets.