Thika United may have won a crucial battle for survival in the Sportpesa premier league, but the ultimate war may yet be decided in the boardrooms. The league managers,Kenya Premier League and the custodians of Kenyan football,the Football Kenya Federation are yet to read from the same script on relegation and promotion of teams. Thika had prevailed in the relegation battle over Western Stima, who thought they had done enough when reliable Wesley Kemboi netted in the 68th minute to give them a 1-0 win against Chemelil Sugar at Chemelil Sugar Sports Complex. But Thika were also having the fight of their lives, headed for demotion with about 15 minutes remaining, the Thika lads somehow survived thanks to Mwinyi Kibwana’s dead ball delivery that sailed straight into the net. At the final whistle Thika and Stima were tied on 35 points, but the former had a superior goal difference and Thika survived and Stima were relegated after eight years in top flight. They joined Muhoroni Youth, whose relegation had been confirmed two weeks back and they understandably had little to offer as AFC Leopards run over them 4-1 at Mumias Sugar Sports complex. That might not be the end of that though. While FKF have repeatedly stated from the start of the campaign of the expanded league, that two teams will be automatically relegated and two promoted in the same breath with the third place finisher in the National Super League will engage in a playoff with the third last team in the top flight league, KPL have stated otherwise. Yesterday, KPL Chief Executive Officer Jack Oguda could not be reached to restate his position but FKF President Nick Mwendwa reaffirmed the federation stance on the matter. “Two teams will be promoted automatically and two relegated while the sixteenth placed team in the KPL will face off in a play-off with the third placed team in the Super league. The matches will be played on a home and away basis with the first leg set fr 2nd December and the second leg a week later,” Mwendwa revealed. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia were officially crowned the 2017 SportPesa Premier League champions at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu after playing out for a 2-2 draw with Sony Sugar in their last match of the season. George Abege and Geulord Yema scored for Sony while Medie Kagere grabbed a double for Gor Mahia for a season tally of 14 in the absorbing contest. “It has been continuous hard work and good discipline and the results are here with us today. We deserved to win this championship,” said Gor coach Dylan Kerr.