A witness in the Mbeere South MP poll petition on Thursday shocked the court after he said Rtd Colonel Geoffrey King'ang'i used witchcraft to win the election. He claimed the legislator, who was former President Mwai Kibaki's aide, gave voters raw meat in a ritual to elect him on August 8. King'ang'i denied the allegations describing them as pure lies. He said the witness is being used by the petitioner Kamau Nyutu. The MP said the witness could not prove the allegations and that he is only out to malign his name. Kevin Murimi said King'ang'i used two witch doctors to administer the ritual to voters on July 22. Murimi said the voters were given Sh500 each during the alleged ceremony. The witness said he was among those who slaughtered the bull which was used for he ritual. He told the court that some of the meat was cooked while the remaining raw pieces were given to the voters the following day. Murimi told Justice Robert Limo that he was a former supporter of King'ang'i before they fell out. He said on that day, about 3,000 voters from Mbeere South met at the MP's farm in Kiritiri where he treated the lot to a party. King'ang'i is represented by lawyer Elias Mutuma and Nyutu by lawyer Kirimi Quantai. When asked whether he ate the raw meat, Murimi said he did not because he left before the ritual was conducted. Murimi could also not mention the residents said to have eaten the raw meat. He could not give the names of the witches whom he alleged administered the oath but said they are well-known. Murimi said he was in good books with King'ang'i between February and July before he switched allegiance to Nyutu. He said people voted for the legislator for fear of what may befall them after the ritual. Murimi said Nyutu used him as a spy on King’ang’i so that he would be a witness to some of the things he collected. Mutuma said Murimi is a liar and that what he was telling the court was fabrication which never took place as alleged. In the poll, King’ang’i got 18,225 votes against Nyutu’s 2,810.  