There will be no compromise in matters security on Tuesday when Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto will be sworn-in for their second term. Nairobi police commander Japheth Koome has announced "red zones" which will be blocked from as early as 6am. The multi-agency operation will tightly secure the zones which are Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway, Museum Hill and Aga Khan areas, Wangare Maathai road and Thika Superhighway all the way to the Kasarani Sports Complex venue. The military and General Service Unit are expected to play key roles alongside teams such as the Kenya Red Cross Society. "I have officers from from specialised units in other counties. Officers drawn from all uniformed disciplines have been mobilised for the event," Koome told a press conference on Saturday. Read: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 Police are ready The commander addressed the press in his office after chairing a meeting of divisional police and DCI commanders. "This is a historical day for our country...Let is ensure it succeeds. We are expecting many international visitors and many heads of state and government," he noted. "The visitors will move from JKIA to various places. Motorists must cooperate so there is smooth flow of traffic to various places." He added: "Anybody causing trouble along the red zones will be dealt with. Nothing will affect the security of heads of state." Among those who will fly in for the ceremony are Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Koome assured continuous safety, saying the city has been calm. Protests have rocked several parts since the August 8 general election. The latest cases took place on November 17, when NASA supporters welcomed their leader Raila Odinga back from the United States. More on this: 'Why do they want to kills us': Raila's supporters served tear gas, bullets The commander noted enough officers will be on the ground from Monday so all members of the public must cooperate as they will face the law if they don't. He said they will also carry out aerial surveillance to ensure smooth implementation of security strategies for the coronation and the UN Environmental Assembly that will begin on Sunday. "Police are ready to provide security for both events. I will not go into details but we have enough officers," he said. 'No notices for parallel meetings' Koome did not name anyone but as NASA plans its parallel rally at Uhuru Park, he noted permission from police authorities must be obtained. "You must notify the station commander of where the procession will start. Nobody has notified any of the station commanders about any other function on Tuesday," he said. "If anybody does not involve police and wants to break below...that person should know we will deal firmly with such cases according to the law." Opposition leaders have threatened to declare Raila President of Peoples Republic of Kenya. The National Intelligence Service, however, has recommended that NASA leaders be arrested and charged with treason if Raila is sworn-in. Read: Raila risks jail for treason if he takes presidential oath Also read: Raila’s swearing-in would have no legal effect Koome said the meeting with commander was part of a series on securing Nairobi. "We have committed, professional and patriotic officers serving in Nairobi. They are committed to ensuring Nairobi is safe for residents and many foreigners who visit so there is calm and tranquility," he said. "We are ready to ensure nothing goes wrong. This is serious business." Click here for the latest political news