The body of former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe's
late son, Seif Kajembe, is expected to arrive in Kenya today for burial on Wednesday.
 Seif died at Muljibhai Patel Urological Hospital
in Gujarat, India on Tuesday at 3am while being treated for kidney failure. According to Kajembe, Seif's body rejected the kidney
he received from a donor two years ago. On Wednesday evening, he told reporters Seif's
body was expected to land at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at around
4.30pm aboard a Kenya Airways flight. The body and those accompanying it will then connect
to Mombasa via another Kenya Airways flight and is expected to land at the Moi
International Airport at around 7.30pm. The body will be at the family home in Changamwe
all night. "Prayers will be conducted at Masjid Noor in Mikindani, Jomvu
constituency at 9am," Kajembe, who is the Kenya Ferry Services chairman, said. The burial will then be held at the Kwa Shee graveyard
in Jomvu at 10am. Meanwhile, condolence messages continue to pour
in. Former Kenyan ambassador to Tanzania Chirau Ali Mwakwere
said Seif's death was a blow not only to the Kajembe family but also to the
entire youthful politician fraternity. "He was a shining light for other youthful
politicians. He was energetic and his death comes as a shock. It is hard to
swallow," Mwakwere said. Mwakwere's family had ties with the Kajembe family
through intermarriage. "I have
a personal relationship with Kajembe's family," he pointed
out. Seif was being groomed to take over the political
mantle from his father, who has been in active politics for over 30 years. He was Jomvu Kuu councilor for 15 years before representing
Changamwe constituents in Parliament for another 15 years. In 2013, when Seif plunged into elective politics
for the first time, going toe-to-toe with his brother-in-law Badi Twalib for
the newly created Jomvu constituency MP seat, Kajembe went for the Mombasa
senator seat. Both father and son were beaten to their respective
seats by Hassan Omar and Twalib respectively. Kajembe then had to fight claims he was promoting
hereditary politics by fronting and bankrolling his son to take over from him. For the 30 years he represented constituents at
the Mombasa municipal council and Parliament, Kajembe controlled Mombasa West
politics. Mombasa West comprises Changamwe and Jomvu
constituencies.  