Murang'a MCAs have promised to continue with their push to have assembly clerk Chris Kinyanjui ousted from office. The MCAs Tuesday blamed Kinyanjui for all their problems since they were sworn in three months ago. They accuse Kinyanjui of failing to approve their mortgages and car loan, medical cover and allowances. "We have been moving from one problem to another since we got into office. All that is because of the clerk," a nominated MCA told the Star. Last week's sporting event in Machakos county is the latest cause of altercation between the ward representatives and the clerk. MCAs have accused Kinyanjui of reducing their allowances during the six-day event. They also say Kinyanjui bought them substandard kits and uniform for the event. "Muranga was the joke of the day with cheap sweat jackets and substandard boots to play in different entries," another MCA said. "We demand and explanation on how procurement was done. Romours has it that Sh6 million was spent," the MCA added. On Monday, the MCAs caused chaos after they stormed Kinyanjui's office armed with hammers and clubs in an attempt to forcefully throw him out. They threw punches, smashed a desk and took away items. It took the intervention of Murang’a East OCPD Johnstone Limo to have the MCAs ejected from Kinyanjui's office. They were later led out of the assembly. Assembly majority leader Eric Kamande said he was engaging both parties to have the issues resolved amicably. "The MCAs have raised their issues which are genuine and we are working on a solution without pushing anyone because the county is for all of us," Kamande said. The MCAs want members insurance scheme investigated. They say the terms of the cover are not clear. "According to SRC, we are supposed to get Sh3 million for inpatient and Sh200,000 for outpatient but Britam only paid Sh300,000 of a Sh1.2 million bill when our colleague was recently admitted to Nairobi Hospital," another MCA who sought anonymity told the Star. They further accused Kinyanjui of stalling their car loans and mortages from the county government "We have already identified the cars and houses and presented the logbooks and title deeds to the relevant offices for processing. It is now three months and nothing has happened," Another MCA said.  