Kenyans should emulate Kenya's first Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, an NCIC commissioner has said. Prof Gitile Naituli said Jaramogi was a selfless leader whose actions should be borrowed to end the stalemate in the country. This followed the VP's decision to decline an offer from then KANU leaders Ronald Ngala and Daniel Arap Moi. "The two wanted him to take up the leadership of the country after their party won the 1961 elections but he refused," Prof Naituli said. He said on Saturday that if everybody emulated Jaramogi, the country will not be facing the current crisis it has found itself in. Kenya is unsettled following the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner of the disputed October 26 election. "Leaders who want to leave a legacy should have the willingness to forego power," Naituli said. "The major hiccup in Kenya today is that leaders don't want to admit there is a problem. They have also put money first instead of people." He said the other problem is that professionals like engineers, doctors and journalists have abandoned their trade to opt for politics. Prof Naituli also took issue with NASA leader Raila Odinga's critics saying the ODM boss has many followers hence deserves respect. "He is a man who has a say in the country. Raila is comparable to former South African President  Nelson Mandela." He said that Mandela despite being in prison for 27 years, never disrespected leaders who practiced apartheid. "As per the bible, leaders need to come together and reason for the sake of establishing a common ground," he said. He spoke at County Peace and Cohesion Forum at Border Palace Hotel in Busia on Friday. The session was attended by various trade unionists, religious leaders among many other opinion leaders from the county. Former Knut executive secretary George Wesonga said salaries for leaders seeking political positions should be reduced. Community leaders, who attended the forum, said NCIC should be given powers to prosecute those who breach cohesion. They also suggested that the number of presidential candidates be limited to at least three. Major (Rtd) Paul Okuta urged the IEBC to stop manipulating election results to avoid plunging the country into civil strife. He also said he the situation where leaders use vernacular during national days threatens the nation's fabric. Busia Religious Leaders chairman Peter Muiruri derided NCIC for being lenient towards leaders accused of breach of peace and cohesion.  