The Bungoma Public Service Board has criticised Governor Wycliffe Wangamati for alleging that it was being bribed to favour some applicants in the recruitment of county chief officers. Speaking on Saturday, Wangamati said he had received reports that applicants had each paid Sh50,000 in bribe to be considered. Board chairman Gideon Sirai said the claims are malicious. Wangamati spoke at a funeral in Kanduyi constituency. Addressing the press in Bungoma on Monday, Sirai said the governor was peddling rumours to taint the image of the board. He said all applicants will be fairly considered and that employment will be based on merit. "We deny the governor's claims. We want to tell residents not to give money to get jobs," Sirai said. Sirai said that as a board that has been up to task
effectively they received the report on a section of media with utter shock and
disbelief. The claims by the governor have tainted our image
and made us look like people who do not have any morals and cannot be trusted
by the members of the public,’ he said. He said that it was wrong for the governor to make
such remarks that are not true and if he had evidence he should crack whip on
the culprits instead of spreading lies about the board.  Sirai said that they have been much irked by the
reports because at no particular point have they ever asked for money from the potential
chief officers or any other potential employee. ‘We would like to deny by all means such reports and
we would like to appeal to all residents across the county that let them not be
cheated to give any cash to get job,’ he added. ‘We would like also to tell those who applied that
only those who merit by having required experience of working and the right testimonials
are the only ones who will be employed,’ he said. Sirai said that 960 people from the county’s nine
constituencies were the ones who applied for the fifteen positions of the chief
officers. ‘We would like everyone to be patient enough since
we have sieved the 960 and are still following keenly those who will merit and
by next week we will gazette those who have managed to get the positions,’ he
added. ‘We as a board are repeating that only those with
enough working experience and who meet the required qualifications will be
picked,’ he said. ‘We would like to assure governor and all members of
the public that we are following the due process and  law that directs us and those who will not be satisfied
with our process will have to follow the right channel to air their complains,’
he said. Sirai also warned the five board members that any
one of them who will be caught taking money from potential recruits that he
will face the full wrath of the law. ‘I know there could be people out there who could be
using our names to solicit money from job seekers we have launched an intensive
investigation and if anyone found soiling our name he will be handled accordingly,’
he said  The chairman said that such allegation have been reported
in the past where people have been duped that they know some board members who
will assist them get a job if they part with cash. We would like to warn anyone that this board works
in consultation with each other and at no single time can a person be employed
without the consultation of the rest. Bungoma governor has been criticized by a section of
residents on social media as wanting to manipulate the way the board does it
work. Ends…