Bishop Cornelius Korir’s body was on Friday moved to the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret for public viewing ahead of the  burial on Saturday inside the church after a state funeral at the Eldoret Sports Club. Security was tightened around the town, where Catholic bishops and several political leaders were for a requiem Mass. Thousands of people lined up to view the body at the Cathedral. Governor Jackson Mandago led the procession from the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue to the cathedral where he was joined by his Nandi colleague Stephen Sang, woman representative for Nandi Tecla Tum and Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter. Hundreds of Catholic Church women lined up the route from the mortuary to the cathedral for about two kilometres to escort the body. The body, drapped in the official cream white church clothes he liked most, was placed in a mahogany casket and the public was given more than four hours to view it before a requiem Mass was held at the church last evening. The church had scheduled a series of prayer meetings and vigils that went on overnight. A state-hired events company finalised preparations at the cathedral, where workers were making final touches to the tomb where Korir will be laid to rest. Sources at the church said the funeral will cost more than Sh50 million. Korir, who served in Eldoret for 27 years, died suddenly on October 30. He had diabetes and high blood pressure.  “We are all set for the final rites for our bishop and we thank the government for the help it has provided to give him a good sendoff,” Father Frederick Njoroge of the Eldoret Diocese said. The state gave the church a facelift. Tents were erected to accommodate thousands of people at the requiem mass and vigils. Njoroge said only 3,000 people will be allowed into the church compound to witness the actual burial. Large screens have been installed within the church compound and at the sports club, where mourners will be  able to follow events.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, bishops and not more than 200 other guests will have access to the tomb.      