ARE
some MPs allied to NASA leader Raila
Odinga speaking from both sides of their mouths? The classic example to
demonstrate the doublespeak is the current direction to boycott
telecommunications provider Safaricom and its products. Yesterday our mole tried
to call the Safaricom lines of three outspoken legislators who are always at
the forefront of the boycott and the lines were all active and two of them
called back after missing our first calls.
**STILL on boycotts, professionals and
youth who support NASA are unhappy with the decision by the opposition outfit
to call for boycott of some products and services. To them, they say, it might
result in profiling and within no time, in escalating cases of redundancy being
declared in the companies that have already been blacklisted by the opposition.
The targets will be individuals perceived to be supporters of NASA. For the
youth – who are mostly jobseekers – they argue that they are not likely to fill
job vacancies in these companies.
**A popular governor from Western
Kenya is now the talk of a university in the area. The governor, known for his
large appetite for young girls, was last on Thursday last week enjoying the
services of a third year student whom he met only weeks ago. Come morning, the
governor gave the girl a sealed white envelope as appreciation. The girl, who
was overjoyed, thought that she had been given a blank cheque and quickly
mobilized her friends to have a small party later that morning as she
unpackaged the sweet package. After emptying a few bottles, the lady almost fainted
after finding only a Sh200 note in the sealed white envelope. The lady has
threatened to embarrass the governor.
**PARLIAMENT resumes today, but
Jubilee MPs are an angry lot. Reason? The unwavering decision by their NASA
colleagues that they will continue boycotting House sessions still angers them.
One Jubilee legislator was heard over the weekend lamenting why their
colleagues should continue showing up in Parliament, clock in to justify their
presence and vanish into thin air! Corridors have been told the agitated
lawmaker was particularly furious at his colleagues receiving equal monthly pay
and allowances.  **KAKAMEGA Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s silence on the NASA
protests and People’s Assembly is too loud. The ODM deputy party leader has not
attended most of the meetings and press conferences, leaving ODM Chair John Mbadi to chair them in case ODM
party Chair Raila Odinga is not
present. Corridors will be closely monitoring his developments in the coming
days, during which NASA has promised to unleash a nationwide hurricane of protests.