Seasoned road runners Habtamu Asefa Wakeyo and Keneni Germame Korme will compete in the men’s and women’s 21-km races, respectively, as part of an exchange programme between organisers of the Lotto Baringo Half Marathon and the Great Ethiopian Run. The two Kenyan athletes for the November 26 Great Ethiopian Run, Africa’s biggest road race with over 35,000 runners, will be unveiled after this Saturday’s Lotto Baringo Half Marathon from a shortlist of upcoming runners and also factoring the performances at Saturday’s race. “We are excited to once again have our neighbours and friendly rivals, from Ethiopia travelling to Baringo for the race as this is part of the exchange programme that we hope will continue improving the standards of distance running in Kenya,” Lotto Baringo Half Marathon founder and patron, Paul Tergat, said. “Going by their performances, Habtamu and Keneni will indeed give our local runners some good workout on Saturday,” added the former world marathon record holder and five-time world cross country champion. Interestingly, while Tergat is the founder of the Lotto Baringo Half Marathon, his running days rival Haile Gebrselassie started the Great Ethiopian Run. And while Gebrselassie took up management, being elected President of the Ethiopian Athletics Federation a year ago, Tergat also ventured into sports administration and was last month voted in as President of the National Olympic Committee of Kenya. The Ethiopian running pedigree is never in doubt and the times posted by Habtamu and Keneni make for interesting reading, with Habtamu having clocked a personal best 28 minutes in the 10-kilometre road race in 2013 and 61:00 in the half marathon in France in the same year. In the full marathon, Habtamu clocked 2:08:28 for ninth place finish at the 2013 Dubai Marathon and has been a regular podium finisher in Ethiopian road races at altitude. Keneni’s personal best time in the half marathon is 68:00 which she clocked in India this year. She has a PB of 36:00 in the 10-km race posted at last year’s Great Ethiopian Run where she finished fourth. Keneni also finished fourth in last year’s 21km race at the Uganda Marathon, clocking 1:21:00 on challenging terrain. The two athletes will be managed by Ato Negash Dube. “We also look forward to having strong Kenyan runners at the Great Ethiopian Run on November 26 as part of this exchange and to also breathe more life in African road running,” Great Ethiopian Run general manager Ermias Ayele said. This year’s edition of the Lotto Baringo Half Marathon received an increased sponsorship of Sh5 million from Sh4 million last year from lottery company, Lotto Foundation. Lotto, are title sponsors for the second year running with this year’s race set for Saturday and featuring the flagship 21-km race, a 6km junior cross country race and 10-km road race open to individuals and corporates. The course has slightly changed with the starting point around Timboiywo and the finish at Kabarnet. At the launch, Lotto Foundation chairman Brian Waluchio commended the race organisers for their consistency and service to community.