NASA leaders have been urged to cancel their prayer rally in Uhuru Park on Tuesday and join other Kenyans for the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on Friday said the opposition’s parallel event to pray for victims of police brutality to Uhuru’s Inauguration at Safaricom Kasarani Stadium impedes national unity. Kinyua, who chairs a committee planning the inauguration, said it will cost more than Sh300 million. They are expecting many heads of state and other dignitaries. Read: NASA to swear in Raila as President next Tuesday [VIDEO] NASA won't block Uhuru swearing-in, declare Raila president - Kiraithe There have been media reports that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will attend.  “People want to move together as one. We really plead that on that date it is unnecessary to have another event. We need to have a cohesive Kenyan society,” Kinyua said. He said the more than Sh300 million budget is enough and the Committee of the Assumption of the Office of the President should not be accused of overspending public money. “We have put together a budget we think is adequate. It is slightly above Sh300 million. That is adequate when we look at what we need,” Kinyua said. Read: Is Sh300 million Uhuru swearing-in necessary in troubled Kenya? Also read: Cash crunch hits Uhuru's Sh300 million inauguration plan He said they have invited leaders of all political parties in the country, including the NASA leadership led by Raila Odinga. “The opposition is part of the government, and is provided for in the Constitution. We should always be seen working together. We need to focus on this important day then shift to other events afterwards on issues we need to discuss,” Kinyua said. Raila and his three co-principals have said they neither recognise Uhuru’s presidency nor take orders from the Jubilee administration. The opposition leaders yesterday evening held a fundraiser in a Nairobi hotel for needy and ailing victims of police brutality ahead of their Tuesday rally. Kinyua said NASA’s prayer rally is not backed by the Constitution. “We are in a democratic nation. Any other function on that day will be like Kinyua having tea somewhere. It will not be historic because it has got nothing to do with the Constitution,” he said. Committee members Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and Solicitor General Njee Muturi said they also expect 100,000 Kenyans to attend the swearing -in.    The committee assured Kenyans of their security during the event.  Click here for the latest political news   