Construction of the Sh36 billion Thwake Multipurpose Dam in Makueni will start next year and be completed in 2022. Vision 2030 director general Julius Muia yesterday said the government is in the final stages of compensating landowners. He added that the cost could increase as construction goes on. Water PS Zainab Hussein last month said the ministry had paid out Sh2.2 billion to 1,443 people and the remaining 198 would soon receive cash. The project covers 9,000 acres. The government is to provide 65 per cent of the financing and the African Development Bank the rest. Issues over tendering emerged after AfDB questioned the integirty of the bidder who got the contract. China Gezhouba Construction Group Corporation, which won the tender, had been blacklisted by both AfDB and the World Bank. Muia says the delays had nothing to do with funding. “What was delaying Thwake was not funding. It was actually the land acquisition because that causes a lot of feelings in this part of the world,” he said. “People hold land very dearly. Now that the government is in the final stages of compensation, we can see the project kicking off.” He said the project is designed to uplift the lives of people in the Southeastern region. Water will be pumped to Mbooni Hills and then it will flow down in pipes for irrigation. “The other benefit is that once you have the dam there, it will control the floods down the river. People will be able to do sensible irrigation because Thwake will be releasing water slowly,” Muia said. “People downstream can also benefit from the water for fishing as an economic activity.” The other key beneficiary will be Konza Techno City. Muia said the large body of water will change the micro-climate. The construction of the dam and accompanying infrastructure will improve connections and trade among Makueni, Kitui and Machakos counties. “As they do the dam, they will also build a road crossing from Makueni to Kitui.There is very little trade between Kitui and Makueni, and Kitui and Machakos because the crossing points are only three,” Muia said. The three crossing points are Kibwenzi-Ikutha, Machakos-Masii-Kitui town and the one leading to Ndalani. With Thwake, the region will have a fourth crossing point that will promote trade and improve the living standards of residents. “The actual construction is going to take place in the third medium plan of 2018-2022,” Muia said. “I foresee the project being in the performance contract in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation and any other government institutions that have a role in making it a reality.”