The five Kenyan sailors who were detained in Indonesia finally arrived home on Thursday afternoon after almost two years away. They told of harrowing experiences in the MV Queen Bihanga, sometimes going for up to 10 days without food, clean water and no proper toilet. Captain Mzee Khamis, Mapinga Mwalimu (bosun), Yusuf Omar (greaser), Tela Juma (cook), and Aggrey Diedi (electrician) said it is God who helped them survive in the deep seas. “The ship was faulty when we first entered it on January 20, 2016. It was not how we expected. We were told we were to only sail it to Mombasa and not repair it,” Khamis told the Star. They had to change their contracts from a voyage contract to one that allowed them to stay in the ship. Diego Rafiki, the Burundian owner of the general cargo ship, refused to let the Kenyan crew go back home upon request by the sailors who had had enough mid last year. “We had been forced to change almost everything in the ship. It was a coastal ship, meaning it only operated from morning to evening,” Khamis said. no toilet He said, “But we had to change all that to make it work day and night. It did not even have a toilet when we got in first.”  Rafiki, according to Khamis, owes them about $40,400 (about Sh4.1 million) accumulated over the more than 20 months they have spent in the ship. “He was, however, paying our families between $200 and $500 (about Sh20,400-Sh51,000 ) a month. But that also stopped about four months ago when we insisted we had to go back home,” Khamis said. Two weeks ago, Rafiki denied he owes the sailors the amount, adding they had abandoned his ship when they went to the Kenyan consulate without his authority. That, according to Rafiki, meant they were no longer under his responsibility. itf pursues matter International Transport Workers Federation inspector in charge of East Africa Betty Makena on Thursday said it is still pursuing the matter. NGO Haki Africa, which was also following up on the matter, said it will provide counseling services for the five to deal with the trauma. “We will work closely with the ITF to make sure their wages are paid by the employer.  Haki Africa will ensure everyone has access to trauma therapy and effective healing. We intend to take legal action against Deigo,” Haki Africa programme officer Francis Auma said. Auma, Makena and Kenya Maritime Authority officer in charge of seafarers Josephine Nthia said there is a need to create awareness to all seafarers about their human rights. call to review laws “The international maritime laws should be reviewed to check on disputes arising over the question of remuneration, facilities on board, repatriation and other similar aspects which cause dissatisfaction to the seafarer,” Auma said. He continued, “In an environment where work is worshipped and one in which the seafarer toils to get his salary at the end of the month, issues that cause dissatisfaction to him ought to be heard, considered, debated and judged promptly.”  