Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti and Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata led hundreds of residents to register lines with Airtel on Wednesday. A shortage of Airtel lines has reportedly hit Homa Bay town as a majority follow NASA leader Raila Odinga's call to boycott Safaricom. "What Baba (Raila) says here is followed like a law. We will comply with it until he tells us 'otherwise'. We're disappointed with Safaricom if it can allow itself to engage in unhealthy deals," one of the supporters said. Safaricom has denied claims of involvement in rigging and chief executive Bob Collymore said his "innocent" employees should not be dragged into politics. Details: I’ll bite the bullet for my staff, says Collymore  Residents purchase and register Airtel lines in Homa Bay town, November 8, 2017. /ROBERT OMOLLO Area Airtel network manager Macrine Apete said they have registered more than 11,000 lines in the past week and that majority migrated from Safaricom. "Our network lines have increased in sales. Most people say they are crossing over from Safaricom," she said. Last week Raila asked supporters to boycott products from Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside Dairies. He claimed Safaricom aided in rigging the August 8 general election, an accusation the telecommunications giant has denied. More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott On Monday, he migrated from Safaricom to Airtel prompting his supporters to do the same. "It is high time we do what Raila wants. He did not just come up and single out individual companies, there must be a reason. As NASA supporters, we obey what our leaders say," Awiti said shortly after he and Orata registered with Airtel. STOCK, SALES DOWN The Star found that a majority of shops in Homa Bay reduced stocks of Bidco and Brookside products. A shopkeeper said some residents threatened to destroy them. "We don’t stock the products because there is total reduction of customers. Last week some youths threatened to destroy and burn shops which stock them,” one said. Goods listed under the NASA boycott plan have suffered low sales in Kisumu, a spot check by The Star has revealed. This has been reported in major supermarkets namely Tuskys, Naivas, Tumaini, Khetias and Choppies. Most of the shops have reduced their orders for products from the targeted companies.  Residents purchase and register Airtel lines in Homa Bay town, November 8, 2017. /ROBERT OMOLLO Choppies supermarkets, which has five outlets in Kisumu town, has reportedly reduced their stock orders from the said companies. A worker at one of the stores said most customers are demanding for milk products from other companies. The attendant said the demand for Tuzo, Molo, Dairy Fresh, Delamere and Ilara products have reduced. "Most customers only ask for products which are not associated by the said companies. They only want the ones okayed by Raila Odinga." "The milk products used to move fast before the boycott call," the worker who asked not to be named said on Wednesday. Bidco has also suffered sales of Soya, Golden Fry, Ufuta, Kimbo, Sungold and Elianto cooking oils. Some of the products are now being sold on special offer to lure customers. More on this: Firms suffer low sales as Kisumu residents heed NASA boycott calls