JKUAT lecturers on Friday joined their counterparts in boycotting work. Varsities are pushing for higher perks as contained in the 2013-17 CBA drafted by universities, unions and the government. The lecturers said lack of accountability on the part of the government has caused strikes. Speaking at the main campus, Peterson Hinga, the University and Academic Staff Union secretary for the JKUAT chapter, said, “The deal was signed and even payment had began, but because a few individuals have decided not to do their job, we always go back to the same situation.” He said the strike had nothing to do with politics. “The boycott is justified. We gave the government time to address the matter but it failed to do so,” Hinga said. The strike, which started on Wednesday, will not only affect academic staff, but also other staff under the Kenya University Staff Union (Kusu) and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers (Kudheiha). “It is a shame that after over 50 years of independence, we still need to boycott work to push for better working conditions. Our students are the ones who are suffering and spending more time in schools, which is equivalent to wasting time,” Hinga said. The over 9,000 employees are demanding four months arrears, adding up to Sh5.2billion to cater for the increase. 31 universities participate According to UASU national secretary general Constantine Wasonga, the strike will include 31 public universities until the government addresses their demands for increased pay. “There is no turning back unless the government implements the new rates for both basic salary and house allowance. It is time to strike, strike and strike,” Wasonga said. The strike comes after the expiry of a 21-day notice the lecturers issued. Under the 2013-2017 CBA, the lecturers stood to benefit from a 17.5 per cent pay increase and a 3.9 per cent increase in housing allowance. A deal which was struck in March was for the period starting 2013 to 2017.  The government set aside Sh10 billion in arrears, but failed to effect the monthly pay rise.