Charm. Eloquence. Confidence. Articulation.  These are some of the traits of a good public speaker. And while some people are naturals, there is hope for those who would rather the ground swallowed them up than being told to stand before a crowd to deliver a speech. Toastmasters International is a club that seeks to turn even the shyest of individuals into master public speakers. The Star caught up with Mathew George to explain more. George is the winner of the 2017 Best of Toastmasters East Africa competition and runner-up in the 2017 Toastmasters International Video Speech Contest. He is a member of one of the 12 Toastmaster International clubs in Kenya.   Why the name Toastmasters? When you go to a wedding, at the end, there is someone picked to make a toast to the newly married couple. The person has to be articulate, humorous and engaging. That is how the name came about. A speaker needs to be like the person who gives the toast at a wedding— he or she has to be engaging and articulate.   How did you end up joining Toastmasters? I am a trained lawyer and when I was working in the legal department of Kenya Sweets Limited in 2012, my supervisor noticed I was a good communicator, so he introduced me to the Toastmasters club, and I have been there ever since.   Which Toastmasters club do you belong to? Smartspeak club. We meet at the Parklands Sports Club two Tuesdays every month from 6.30pm to 8pm.   Have you always been a confident public speaker? During my younger years, I wasn’t that much of a good public speaker, but I became better with time and my dad even called me ‘big mouth’.   Tell us about the video speech contest you won. In July this year, I participated in the Best of Toastmasters East Africa competition in Kigali. I competed against other Toastmasters from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania. There were three rounds, and the final round was an impromptu speech. Impromptu speaking was never my strong point, so the victory was thrilling. The second win was in the Toastmasters International Video Speech Contest, where numerous video speech entries from clubs across the world are sent to the Toastmasters Headquarters in California. Being named runner-up was the result of persistence, as I participated last year, but never got past the club level.   What are some of the no-nos of public speaking? Avoid using crutch words and filler words, such as ‘umms’ and ‘ahs’. Try to make your speech as seamless as possible. Also, try to be humourous.   Has a joke you told during a speech ever failed terribly? Perhaps not in a prepared speech, because you have an opportunity to tailor your content. But this has definitely happened in impromptu speeches, as recently as a few months ago. Later that night, you get a cringeworthy eureka moment, where you realise you could have given a much better response. But these reflective moments help you get better with time.   Why should people be interested in joining Toastmasters and being great public speakers if that is not their career path? Other than the confidence that comes with being a good public speaker, it helps improve your leadership skills. Being able to articulate yourself helps with career progression.   What do I need to join Toastmasters? It’s a non-profit organisation, though there is an annual subscription fee of 60$-$100 (about Sh6,000-Sh10,200 ). For people who want to come to meetings to find out what it is all about, they are free to join any of the 12 clubs. Attending a meeting as a guest is Sh300 per session. Currently, all Toastmasters clubs are in Nairobi, Nakuru, Mombasa and Kisumu, but we are looking to expand so we can be recognised internationally as a Toastmasters District, and become eligible to compete in the World Championship of Public Speaking, as well as participate in the running of Toastmasters International along with the main club headquartered in the US.   How many members do you have in Kenya? Between 300-500 active members, and many more that were once part of the Toastmasters journey. There is a saying, ‘Once a Toastmaster, always a Toastmaster’, and old members are welcomed back with pomp and ceremony.   What does Toastmaster have in line for the remainder of the year? There will be a huge celebration for the 300th meeting on November 7 (today), where there will be a lot of speeches and fun.   A TOASTMASTER SESSION I took up George’s offer to attend one of the sessions and here is how it went: First, due to traffic, I ended up arriving at 6.45pm and peeping through the window, could see a member making her presentation. Not wanting to miss too much of the action, I tried to get in, but there was a gatekeeper. I was later to find out that once a presentation has started, no one can enter. So I missed the first presentation, but was right on time for George’s presentation. His task was to make a 10-minute presentation using audiovisuals — speaking and using visuals — such as a PowerPoint presentation — to communicate. He told the story he told me during our interview about his first public speaking presentation. It was during his high school graduation at St Mary’s School. He approached his teacher to allow him to make a presentation when then Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta visited as the chief guest in 2008. His teacher did not want to risk any goofs, so he was turned down. However, he decided to be cheeky and sneaked to the podium and took the microphone. He made reference to the fact that during Uhuru’s time at the school, he won the prize for best history student in 1979 and was handed his award by then Vice President Mwai Kibaki. He urged his fellow students to follow their dreams and maybe one day they would return to the school as top leaders in the country. After the presentation, a member of another Toastmasters club — Dorcas Soita — made a presentation on the three goofs to avoid when gesturing. She was quite the animated character.   RULES OF THE GAME All the while as speakers presented, there were ‘judges’ taking note of delivery, use of grammar and time keeping. One of the tenets of good public speaking is avoiding the use of ‘umms’ and ‘ahs’, so there is a bell which is rang whenever a speaker uses the words or repeats words unnecessarily to put a speaker in check. There is also a grammarian who takes note of — you guessed it — a speaker’s use of grammar. The last session of the meeting is dubbed ‘table topics’, where an appointed person prepares questions to be discussed and randomly picks attendees to answer. Now, I had no idea when filling the guest list that it was going to be used to pick names to participate in the session. So yes, my name was among those called and I was given a minute to discuss whether public speaking should be included in the school curriculum. Sixty seconds can be a long time when you are unprepared. There were a few ringing of bells because of ‘umms’ and ‘ahs’, but it went well, nonetheless. At the end of the session, the people who gave speeches were evaluated and the meeting was closed.   ABOUT TOASTMASTERS Toastmasters International is a US-headquartered nonprofit educational organisation that operates clubs worldwide for the purpose of helping members improve their communication, public speaking and leadership skills. The first club, Smedley Chapter One Club, was founded by Ralph Smedley on October 22, 1924. The organisation has 345,000 members in 142 countries.  WHAT MEETINGS LOOK LIKE Each meeting has a structured format, with various members participating in the different roles in the meetings. The meeting is run by a Toastmaster of the Day with the help of Table Topics Master and General Evaluator. There are three basic parts to the Toastmasters meeting: the prepared speeches, table topics and evaluations. In the prepared speaking portion of the meeting, several Toastmasters will give a prepared presentation or speech before the group. Speeches are usually designed to meet the requirements of one of the projects in the communication manuals. "Table topics" is a random speaking exercise where the speaker speaks "off the cuff"; that is, the speaker responds to a question or topic that is not known beforehand. The Table Topics Master presents the topic, calls on an individual, and then that individual has one to two minutes to respond. The evaluation session is where feedback is provided to all members, including the speakers. The evaluation session is headed by a General Evaluator, who calls on individual speech evaluators to give a two- to three-minute evaluation of an earlier presentation. After the evaluators have finished giving their evaluations, the General Evaluator calls for the helper reports: There is a Grammarian who notes mispronunciations and mistakes in grammar, or word repetition. The Grammarian will also point out positive uses of language, including nice turns of phrase, clever formulations, and especially poetic or otherwise exceptional uses of language. An Ah-Counter keeps track of audible pauses such as "ah," "er," "um," "well," and "you know”. The meeting's Timer reports how much time each speaker, table topics responder and evaluator took to give his or her presentation. Then the General Evaluator, or Master Evaluator, gives his or her overall evaluation of the meeting and makes recommendations of ways to improve future meetings. Members go through a competent communication manual, which consists of 10 speech projects, each building upon the other in skills and difficulty.  For each project, the member prepares and delivers a speech in front of the club. - Adapted from Wikipedia  