The apparition is not out of the bottle yet. By now, the
euphoric howling over a pyrrhic Supreme Court conquest by Jubilants must have
died down. The court said the petitioners failed but didn’t say President Uhuru Kenyatta
won. That was left to Uhuru to prove to the majority of Kenyans. To Kenya’s
ethnopolitical oligarchy, which has matured in Jubilee, conquest of the Supreme
Court was an imperative since it was the last obstacle to the emasculation of institutions that girded the regime’s pretence to
democracy.  Like other institutions that have been cowed by circumventing the
Constitution through sheer legal terrorism, the court was finally swayed by legal and political bullying.
No sooner had the court annulled the August 8 election than the obliteration
plan was put into action. Intimidation came through contagious public scorn
and threats to livelihood and life. As the six judges filed into the courtroom
on Monday, the sagging shoulders, sullen faces and stolen
glances told it all. The brash five-minute ruling suggested impatience with
petitioners by a battered, compliant court.  Jubilee may have won the battle but
lost the war. To the opposition, the Judiciary remained the
last bastion of hope in preventing the country careening from legal
authoritarianism to fully fledged dictatorship. With independent institutions systematically stripped of their power
through legal and political co-optation, the court symbolised hope for justice. Not anymore.  However, the opposition had given up on the court to chart
a different course, even as Jubilee assumed the petition would act as a NASA snare. NASA boycotted a flawed election and avoided abetting
an illegality. NASA then stayed away from the appeal, citing a predetermined
outcome from an already cowed court.   Whilst Jubilee has an appetite for skeleton-thin legalese,
NASA is at home with complex political artistry. The court might have
awarded Uhuru the win, but he only has support from a quarter of the country. Uhuru must find it a puzzling jinx that he was elected while indicted
on crimes against humanity and then twice handed office by the court but not through
the people's unanimous will. Illegitimacy will bestride
his term.  NASA learnt to live with the reality of the court outcome early
enough. Not so Jubilee, which doesn’t know what to do with victory. This has to do
with Jubilee’s whimsical personalisation of its ethno-duopoly majoritarian
ideology against a single man, Raila Odinga. Because of this limitation,
Jubilee has been embarrassingly unable to expand its support base within and beyond
an ethnic-duopoly. Meanwhile the opposition base
remains expansive and growing. Why?  A wipeout of opposition has been Jubilee’s operational
philosophy. It’s what drives the nostalgia of an intergenerational inheritance
to autocracy. And the symbol of that victory is an ambitious disabling of Raila. Well, by shear contradiction, the more Jubilee demonises Raila, the
more he’s made a mystic, a system, a way of life and a symbol of resistance for
many. The more they’ve sought to profile him as a Luo menace, the more traction
he gains in distressed communities. That’s the dilemma Jubilee now faces; they haven’t
learnt from successive regimes that the more you seek to vanquish the man, the
more he becomes enigmatic.   But never in recent history of independent Africa has a
confluence of local ethnocentric business and political class in any country
connived with international backers to deny a man the right to democratically
ascend to office. By sheer dint of subterfuge, these anti-Raila forces have
succeeded in escalating collateral damage, robbing generations of opportunities
that result from civil liberties, democracy and good governance.   In three election circles, those outside the orbit of the
ethnic-duopoly have been disenfranchised, ostracised and excluded from
constitutional dividends. An aggrieved
generation is bloated and coalesces on alienation protest. It’s a generation
that defies age sets and is conjoined by deep logic against exclusion. It’s a
large mass that finds DP William Ruto’s rags-to-riches accumulation frenzy
vile and corrupting of Graham Hancock’s Lords of Poverty book.  It’s intellectual dishonesty and profoundly insulting to
reverse roles and make Raila the poster boy of Lords of Poverty, a case
study in betrayal of a public trust. Any unscrupulous Kenyan can tell who is
the priestly prince who instead of using a country’s wealth to ease hunger and
poverty, corruptly squanders it. The gospel of change, democracy and
justice has an unending captive adherents and practitioners. It is from this
retinue that NASA is mining the resource that blindsides Jubilee - a drawn-out
war in search of electoral justice.      Communications, Publications and Conflict
Management Specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,
  