Last week was a crucial week in the local and global calendar dedicated to catalysing action to eliminate the toxic heavy metal — lead — found in household paints and other products and its devastating health and environmental impacts. Among the key messages of the Fifth International Lead Poisoning Prevention Week of Action was the call to paint manufacturers locally and globally to get safer alternatives to lead before 2020. Paint is currently a major source of exposure to the toxic chemical. Lead in motor vehicle fuel has been phased out in Kenya and other countries, resulting in tremendous health, environment and economic benefits. Leaded paints are still widely used in our homes, schools, public buildings, toys and furniture. Children, pregnant women and industrial workers are the most vulnerable to exposure and the devastating health effects. The continual exposure of children to lead is detrimental to the economy as it weakens intellectual development and learning abilities. In adults, exposure to Lead is linked to health and reproductive problems, including high blood pressure, kidney complications, decline in mental functioning, reduced sperm count or abnormal sperm as well as miscarriages and premature births, among other problems. The developed world banned lead in paint in the 1970s and 80s. In most of the developing world, lead paint is still legal, despite lead-free paint being affordable and easily available. In 2013, the issue of lead in paint came into the public domain in Kenya. Since then measurable progress has been made towards reducing exposure and phasing out lead in paint. Kenya and Tanzania have now joined South Africa and Algeria as the only countries in Africa to have lead paint standards. The Kenya Bureau of Standards has developed a lead paint standard of total lead content limit of 90 parts per million. Any paint containing up to 90ppm total lead is a “lead-free paint” as it is not technically practicable to set a “zero” limit for lead content in paint because natural clays and other raw materials may contain some lead residues. It is technically possible for a manufacturer to reduce the lead content to very low levels by avoiding intentional use of leaded raw materials during manufacture. Very high levels of lead in paint have been found in some paints in Kenya, the highest exceeded 10,000ppm. Some paints with lead content of less than 90ppm cost the same as those of 6000ppm. Paint manufacturers can achieve lead-free paint of less than 90ppm by using readily available unleaded materials. In most cases water-based paints do not contain added lead. Without enforcement of the lead paint laws, the metal will still be added to paint to give it desired characteristics such as bright colour, reduced corrosion of metal surfaces, or faster drying time. Once the standard comes into force, the government will take action to ban the manufacture, import, sale and use of leaded paints. There will be a mandatory requirement for certification of compliance with the legal limit of 90ppm total lead content in paint, based on international accreditation, effective compliance and enforcement programme. The East African Community is considering a similar standard of 90ppm for environmental health aspects and to avoid trade barriers. It is encouraging that a number of local paint manufacturers in the formal sector, including Crown Paints and Sadolin, have voluntarily taken steps to make their products safer by not adding lead and other toxic compounds. Such initiatives deserve support from the government and other stakeholders, including consumers. However, producers in the informal sector still use significant amounts of lead. They need support to transition to safer products while ensuring sustainability of their operations. Stakeholders under the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lead Paint, led by Unep and WHO, are working to ensure lead-free paints are a reality in all countries, including Kenya, by raising awareness and lobbying for action. Lead Alliance Partners has developed a web-based Toolkit for establishing laws to control the use of lead in paint. The Toolkit is accessible on the alliance’s website: www.unep.org/noleadinpaint     Dr. Faridah Hussein Were
is a Lecturer
in the University of Nairobi's Chemistry Department
and an Advisory Group Member of Lead Paint Alliance Email:
faridares@yahoo.com      