The 2017 Classic Rally came to a halt after the sudden death of one of the senior officials of the rally. J.S. Vohra, one of the directors of the East African Safari Classic Rally, succumbed to injuries after his vehicle rolled around the Amboseli Lodge while en-route to watch the marathon rally. Vohra was also director of the Sarova Hotels which included Whitesands and Pan Africa Hotels before he sadly met death in an event that fell under his powers. Raju Kishnani, his fellow director of the Classic Rally was also involved in the accident, though his injuries were said to be slightly less than Vohra’s. Kishnani was flown by helicopter to the Nairobi Hospital for further treatment. A Press Release by the organisers has indicated that the event will continue in his honour. Sweden’s Stiq Blomqvist maintained his lead as crews prepared for the third day action of the 2017 Classic Safari Rally . The Porsche driver, who is seeking his second consecutive victory of the Kenya’s major event, has led the event for the last two days of the 10-day competition. “It was a very tricky first day especially in the first section where most of us got stuck in one of the mud holes. Overall, I am happy to be back here to defend the title I won last time,’’ said Blomqvist. Ian Duncan, the twice winner of the Classic Rally hopes to start Day 3 after missing out on the yesterday’s action after his Ford Capri had encountered mechanical failure on the opening day of the competition. Duncan’s Capri, which had bent an engine valve, had his car repaired to allow him to continue with the rest of the competition. Ramesh Vishram sounded optimistic about his performance though his Ford Escort had minor mechanical problems. “It was a good day, but such a pity that the first stage had an issue but all in all its been a good start besides the wet conditions. I thank God that we managed to go through. The second stage of Day One was rough. I had to be extremely cautious,” said Vishram, the Cementers team driver. Kabras Team leader, Onkar was slowed down behind a lot of cars in the mud holes but he said the team had a good day. Day 3 action will move towards Taita Hills with three more stages along the route. 