After months of bloody and divisive politics, President Uhuru Kenyatta struck a conciliatory tone yesterday as he took the oath of office and promised to be President of all Kenyans. But signalling dramatically the duel is not over, opposition chief Raila Odinga yesterday declared that he too will be sworn into office as the People’s President on December 12, Jamhuri Day. Raila’s game plan remains unclear, however, after Uhuru and his Deputy President William Ruto were sworn into office in the presence of Chief Justice David Maraga at Kasarani Stadium before more than 85,000 ecstatic supporters. Speaking to supporters during a stopover on Manyanja Road, Raila said he will be sworn in through the People’s Assembly and take over State House the same day. The inauguration, Raila said, will be like that of new Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa, not Kizza Besigye’s of Uganda. Mnangagwa, a longtime ally turned foe of Robert Mugabe, was sworn in as President last week after a bloodless coup. “Uhuru Kenyatta is not the President of Kenya... We will not be sworn-in like Besigye. We will be sworn-in like it was done with Mnangagwa in Zimbabwe,” Raila said, amid cheers. “They have sworn in Uhuru as President. We will also have a swearing-in.” Over the weekend, Raila refused hardliners’ calls to be sworn in. The NIS reportedly said such a swearing-in would be treason and recommended Raila’s arrest. On December 12 President Kenyatta will lead the nation in marking Jamhuri Day, celebrating internal self rule.  Yesterday, the Star exclusively reported Uhuru was reaching out to Raila and National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale had met Raila’s elder brother Oburu Oginga and made several peace proposals.  These included Cabinet and other slots. Oburu confirmed two meetings. Other sources told the Star Uhuru promised to become personally involved in peace negotiations, if Raila accepted. The conditions: Recognise Uhuru as the legitimate President and tone down anti-government activities. Yesterday, at least one person was killed as police fired rifles and tear gas to break up a banned opposition gathering in Jacaranda Grounds in Eastlands.  The purpose was to commemorate everyone killed in police violence since Uhuru was first declared victor on August 11. In his inauguration speech, Uhuru promised to focus on reuniting Kenyans. “I undertake to be the custodian of the dreams of all and the keeper of the aspirations of those who voted for me and those who did not,” he pledged as he embarked on his second and final term. “I will be the President of all. And I will devote my time and energy to build bridges to unite and bring prosperity to all Kenyans.” Uhuru was sworn in after an extraordinary series of events in which the August 8 General Election was nullified by the Supreme Court the first time a sitting African President’s win was overturned. He won the repeat poll boycotted by Raila and the opposition last month.  The electioneering period has deepened ethnic divisions and caused strife and killings. Yesterday, Uhuru asked all leaders to join him in serving Kenyans without regard to their political affiliation, saying every person deserves their full attention. “The path to a better future is unity. We can build a nation in which we live in peace with our brothers and sisters whatever part of the country they come from, whichever way we worship God, whatever language we speak,” Kenyatta said. Without saying whether he would reach out to Raila, he said, “We may have chosen different candidates and different visions, but each one of us voted for a better life. “To my competitors, in the spirit of inclusivity, I will endeavour to incorporate some of their ideas. The election was not a contest between a good dream and a bad dream. It was a contest between two competing visions.” DP Ruto too called for unity. “Going into the future, my friend Mr President, we will stand behind you,” he said.  “We will support you as you build on the foundation of the last four and a half years. Building bridges across communities, building bridges of friendship of unity of brotherhood.” For the first time yesterday, Uhuru said the Supreme Court adjudicated the twin presidential petitions with independence. “Our Judiciary, particularly the Supreme Court, adjudicated our electoral petitions with independence,” Uhuru said. The is was in sharp contrast to his earlier attacks on the bench, which he termed wakora or crooks after it overturned his August 8 win. Yesterday the President said Kenyans must free themselves from the baggage of past grievances and uphold the rule of law to build a united, stable and prosperous Kenya. In an apparent warning to NASA, Uhuru said no one should break the law. “However serious our grievances, the law must reign supreme. The law should be the refuge for every Kenyan,” he stated the President called the past few months “a trying time”. For the first time, Uhuru appeared to confront the secession debate and reiterated the preamble of the Kenyan Constitution. Kenya is one indivisible sovereign nation, the head of state said. “That is the Constitution and the laws of Kenya that today we have sworn to protect and defend,” the President said. Uhuru also outlined his vision for the next five years, putting the public service on notice. The President said he will not allow faceless bureaucrats and functionaries to deny the public the service they deserve.  He promised free day secondary education, universal healthcare and 500,000 new homeowners. He pledged to create more jobs for youth and open international markets for Kenyan produce. Uhuru said his administration will facilitate large-scale commercial agriculture to diversify staples.  Any African wishing to visit Kenya, Uhuru said, will be eligible for a visa at point of entry. The deal was sweeter for East African Community members. Their citizens would now be treated as Kenyans. They can work, do business, own property, farm, marry and settle in Kenya.