A couple of weeks back, I came across a newspaper article. It made me sigh. This again, I thought. The article’s title was ‘NTSA warns matatus against loud music, graffiti and flashy lights’. Maybe it’s just me but I think matatus get entirely too much grief from NTSA on how they look and sound, when really the grief they should be getting from the National Transport & Safety Authority is on how they drive on pavements, on the wrong side, and even how they don’t drive — like when they stop in the middle of the road to pick up passengers.    Let’s put a pin on that, and get back to the newspaper article. The gist of that article was as follows: One, there have been complaints from passengers about the excessive noise from matatu exhaust pipes and the loud music. Two, NTSA has issues with the flashy lights you find in the more resplendent among our matatus. According to the authority, the lights are a distraction to other motorists. Three, the graffiti. Apparently, NTSA is paying keen attention to the matatu artwork, with grave concerns being expressed at the kind of messages in the art. In the authority’s view, some of the graffiti is explicit and conveys terror-like messages. Overall, NTSA felt the graffiti is demoralising and atrocious. Not sure what was meant, for I do not know what demoralising graffiti looks like, and I couldn’t tell whether the use of the word atrocious was a critique on the quality of the art. There’s no defending the deafening music and the shrilling exhaust pipes, but then one has to wonder. Considering there are far fewer PSVs with music and modified exhaust pipes, how is it that noise complaint-passengers find themselves in these few, ear-splitting matatus, and not the many quieter buses? And as for the flashing lights being a distraction, can’t say I know of any driver who has ever been distracted by the teeny-tiny lights. But then again, I only know good drivers. Oh yeah, the graffiti. I am all for it. Not only because it allows artists to earn a living and express themselves creatively, but also because it’s our culture. Now, let me clear up a common misinterpretation. There is a difference between culture and tradition. Tradition means the way things have generally been done over history. For example, dancing to traditional songs while bedecked in feathers and a grass skirt, falls under tradition. When we talk of culture, what is meant is the creative side of human nature, which continually evolves. Matatu graffiti is our pop culture. One would be hard-pressed to find public transport elsewhere in the world that looks quite like what we have.      And what exactly is popular culture? It is aspects of social life most commonly practised by the public. Style of dress, use of technology, art, and slang, for example. It is ever-changing to suit the times, it is widely spread through mass media, and often it is the youth who are the drivers of this culture. This graffiti we see on matatus is part of that culture. So why rid ourselves of a colourful culture to replace it with the drab, dull and colourless? Have some studies shown that flamboyant automobile paint jobs adversely affect road safety? We are Africans, in Africa, colour is what we do.