When
the United Nations Population Fund Goodwill Ambassador Ashley Judd, detailed an incident involving the Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein for The New York Times in their eyepopping investigation into decades of
alleged sexual harassment, it came as a shock to many. So now we know. What started as a Hollywood
scandal featuring a powerful man and a string of young women whose lives he had
the power to shape has turned into a global shockwave revealing a staggering
scale of harassment, misogyny and violence. Frankly, though, the fact that
this problem is too big to sweep under the frayed edges of the world’s carpet
has come as a surprise to only half the population. The other half knows what
it is to have to fend off inappropriate remarks and unwelcome advances while
fearing that doing so may jeopardise their careers. Consider this. One in three
women has experienced sexual harassment, violence, assault or rape in their
lifetime. These statistics have been out there for years, but it took the
Weinstein story to bring them into public consciousness. The United Nations
Commission on the Status of Women estimates that 35
per cent of women worldwide have experienced either physical and/or sexual
intimate partner violence by a non-partner at some point in their lives, with
some national studies suggesting the figure may be as high as 70 per cent. Around 120 million
girls worldwide have experienced forced intercourse or other forced sexual acts
at, with
current or former husbands, partners or boyfriends being the most common
perpetrators. Around 700 million women
alive today were married as children. Of those women, more than one in three—or
some 250 million—were married before the age of 15. Misogyny is deeply ingrained across
the world. It feeds into a sense of entitlement by men that legitimises sexual
harassment and sometimes violence. In some parts of the developing world the
culture of entitlement and gender inequality is so pervasive that women
themselves buy into it. The World Bank Gender Data Portal shows that 76.3 per
cent of women in Mali and 92.1 per cent in Guinea believe a man is
justified in beating his wife
if she goes out without telling him, neglects the children, refuses sex, burns
the food or argues with him. From Hollywood via the corridors
of power in Westminster to New Delhi and Nairobi, we face a gender inequality
crisis on an epic scale. Sexual and gender-based exploitation, harassment and
violence is a global issue. Sometimes the sheer size of a
problem may engender a sense of hopelessness. Many people feel that climate
change or poverty, for example, are just too big to solve; that the individual
is powerless in the face of such scale and complexity. But this is not the case here.
There are things we can and must do. After all, while much of gender inequality
is institutionalised in social, economic and political structures, it is individual men and boys who exploit,
intimidate, harass and assault women and girls.   How? There
are five key frontiers for behaviour change.   The first is home. In too many
families across the world boys are more valued than girls, and an attitude of
‘boys will be boys’ excuses much aggression, exploitation and injustice. Husbands
must set an example of respect for their wives. Parents must raise their
sons to value girls and to respect their rights and autonomy. A girl’s body is
her own. A boy has no right to comment on it or touch it uninvited, no matter
what a girl might be wearing, or where she is. The second front for action is education.
Schools must teach respect and gender
equality to both sexes. An organisation that does just this is No Means No Worldwide, which partners with local
organisations in Kenya and Malawi to work in schools. Girls are taught
assertiveness and boundary setting, which is backed up with physical
self-defence training. But boys are a crucial part of the scheme too. Dramatic
changes in boys’ attitudes to girls and sex have been seen after only six
sessions, and rape cases have fallen by 50 per cent in some areas of Nairobi after the
training. The workplace is the third area
for action. Victims of harassment or assault must be able to report their experiences
without fear of retaliation on their careers. Workplace expectations and procedures must be clear and transparent,
and action following a report of inappropriate behaviour must be equally clear
and transparent. Impunity that has lingered too long, aided and abetted by
patriarchy, must no longer prevail. Fourth, when inappropriate
behaviour becomes criminal behaviour, women must feel confident that reporting
sexual crime will not add to their trauma. Police
forces in many parts of the world have no special training in dealing with
victims of sexual abuse and assault, and many do not take it seriously. They
deserve to be treated with sensitivity and respect, and need to know that
police will investigate their cases and arrest perpetrators. Finally, justice must be unrelenting and exemplary, in pursuit of individuals
who commit such acts, regardless of their rank or station. Most survivors of sexual
harassment, violence and exploitation are far from the glitz of Hollywood. Many
are poor and ill-educated. Countless are growing up in cultures where their
life chances are severely diminished simply by virtue of their gender and
circumstance. If the Weinstein story and its
aftermath have shown us anything, it is that sexual exploitation and harassment
is part of everyday experience for girls and women no matter where they live in
the world.   This
has to stop and we as men have to be at the vanguard of change. #HeForShe   Siddharth Chatterjee is the United Nations Resident
Coordinator in Kenya. Follow him on twitter. 