Former Meru Governor Peter Munya has said his 2022 presidential bid will depend on the job the state will give him. He said he will review the decision when it is clear where he will be appointed to serve. Munya has had differences with DP William Ruto after he announced he will go for the top seat in 2022. At one point, he even accused Governor Kiraitu Murungi of being used by Ruto as a pawn to scatter his 2022 presidential bid. Munya spoke to the press at Three Steers Hotel yesterday after filing an application to withdraw the petition challenging Kiraitu's victory. His application was not objected by Kiraitu's lawyers. On September 4, Munya joined NASA, but this was short-lived as he ended his dalliance with the opposition one week after he met Uhuru in State House. On September 8, Munya then filed a case at the High Court in Meru, challenging Kiraitu's win at the August 8 polls. "The election was not free and fair. We witnessed a lot of irregularities. That is why we have filed the case," Munya had told his supporters outside the court. He said it was impossible for him to get zero votes at Igembe Stadium polling station, which "is his stronghold". The former county boss said the fight against rigging will not end if Kenyans relent in the push for justice. "It is questionable that almost half of the forms used by the IEBC in the Meru governor's race are missing," Munya said. On September 20, during a radio interview on Meru FM, Munya said he would not withdraw the petition against Kiraitu.  “I met the President at State House and he told us to resolve our differences without affecting his reelection bid. The petition is in the court and I'm not going to withdraw it,” Munya said. He said he filed the petition for those who voted for him. Munya who was defending his seat on the PNU ticket garnered 232,569 votes against Kiraitu’s 281,737. Kiraitu vied on the Jubilee ticket in the August 8, General Election. A third candidate, Kilemi Mwiria, got 17,411 votes. But on Monday, he changed the tune, saying Uhuru requested he withdraws the case as he will give him a state job. Munya said the people of Meru will be delighted if he is given a state job. "I don't think the petition is longer tenable with that agreement," he said. Asked what job he had been promised by the President, he said he is not sure on the nature of job. He said the political wrangles with the PNU leadership will now end as he is willing to handle the leadership, depending on the nature of job he will be given.  "If I'm given a job requiring me to relinquish the party leadership, I will have to do so as I'm sure within the party there are able leaders," Munya said.  He said PNU is yet to enter into a post-election agreement with Jubilee on a number of seats they will be given if Uhuru assumes office for a second term. "The President did not tell us in specific terms which position he will give us nut we are looking forward into that information and we hope we will get as many position as possible like other parties like Kanu,but you dont look at a horse's mouth if you are given it as a gift," Munya said. He said he withdrew the petition to give Kiraitu time to work for the Meru people.  Munya said when his win in 2013 was challenged, he spent a lot of time and resources in court.  He promised to work with Kiraitu to improve development. 