Two men who died in the Lake Nakuru chopper crash two weeks ago will be buried today. The two are Anthony 'Anto' Kipyegon,28, and the pilot, captain Apollo Malowa,34. Kipyegon will be buried in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County and Malowa in Bondo, Siaya county. Until his demise, Kipyegon was working for Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika. Other victims Sam Gitau, John Mapozi and Veronica Muthoni are yet to be found after the crash on October 21. Desperate family members and friends have been camping on the shores of the lake every day as search efforts continue. They have been braving the scorching sun and sometimes heavy rains for the past two weeks.  "We are now hopelessness, every day that passes our hopes are diminishing", a friend to one of the victims told the Star. Read: Chopper crash: One body retrieved from Lake Nakuru, four missing The fruitless daily searches have continued to cause intense anxiety, agony and a sense of helplessness to them. The Chopper sunk into the relatively shallow, saline water body averaging 45km² with the deepest point averaging eight metres. Head of the National Disaster Committee Jonathan Kertich on Thursday said over 50 percent of the waters have been combed. Only a few pieces of the fuselage were found on October 23, two days after the tragedy. The chopper's main parts are believed to be under the heavily silted waters. The water is reportedly polluted by raw sewer that has been blamed for the migration of millions of flamingo birds that sets the lake's star attraction. The Government is spearheading the search efforts headed by Regional Commissioner Wanyama Musiambo. Nakuru County government has also been engaged in the daily operations. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said he is determined to get a proper closure to the saddening incident. "We have provided tents and chairs, activation of divers from KDF, motorboats from the Fisheries Department as well as "activation of search and rescue helicopters from multiple National Government departments,' Lee said. Read: Senator Susan Kihika's officials feared dead in Lake Nakuru chopper crash Also read:Chopper crash: Captain Apollo Malowa's body retrieved from Lake Nakuru