NASA leader Raila Odinga has said he is not power-hungry.     Raila, who travels to the US today, said NASA will end poll rigging in Africa. The opposition chief said NASA supporters will not allow President Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26 reelection to stand. He said it would set a bad example for future generations. “We want to be the people who will do away with the election rigging on the African continent. We want to show that Africans deserve a better standard,” Raila said in an interview with Al Jazeera on Sunday.   He warned that allowing Uhuru’s reelection through a “sham” fresh poll is derailing Kenya’s vibrant democracy and promoting electoral autocracy. “Next time there will be complete voter apathy in this country and no Kenyan will turn up to vote at all,” Raila said. “ There are counties where only 10 or 20 per cent of people turned up to vote and the President would get 98 per cent of the vote because he was running alone,” he said. “Is this how elections should be held in Africa? Why should Africa be judged by a lower standard than the rest of the world on conducting elections?” Raila said. He maintained that a fresh presidential election should be held to restore electoral justice. He said Supreme Court judges have been disparaged and were called names such as traitors, crooks and criminals for nullifying the President’s win on September 1 . Raila is expected to address the US Congress and other top leaders on the political stalemate in the country and the need for another a fresh poll within 90 days.  “Raila Odinga is not power -hungry, but I want to see democracy properly established in our country. We have autocracy where elections are just a ritual that incumbents do after every five years,” he said. “We want a vibrant democracy in our country. We don’t want imposition of leadership on people and collapse of our democracy.”  He claimed that the IEBC chaired by Wafula Chebukati is held hostage by Jubilee administration.    “Chebukati had told me that he was going to extend the October 26 election date or resign. There was then a threat to his life.”    Raila warned JP leaders against mounting pressure on him to retire.     “My retirement package is in the constitution. I don't need favours," he said.