President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked politicians to use the country’s diversity for national good instead of abusing it for personal gain. Two days to his swearing-in, Uhuru attended a thanksgiving Sunday service at Redeemed Gospel Church in Huruma. His message was that celebrations at Kasarani will not be about him and winning an election but about Kenyans celebrating their diversity, peace and unity. His remarks came amid criticism by NASA leader Raila Odinga and others in the Opposition, who say sober leaders cannot celebrate with the bodies of their supporters in mortuaries. The inauguration will cost Sh300 million. Raila said Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto have become "animals that drink blood".  The NASA chief said this on Saturday in reference to supporters killed as crowds welcomed him back from his US tour on November 17. Police put the number at five but the Opposition said more than 30 were killed and is planning a memorial on Tuesday. More on this: Bloodthirsty animals? Raila tears into UhuRuto over election killings Also read: Go to Jacaranda at your own risk, Koome warns, says NASA lying The President noted that with democracy, it is normal to compete for political positions but the competition should not be based on ethnicity, race or tribe. He wants ideas that will improve the people's lives. “And like in any competition, there will be winners and losers but in terms of the election we, as Kenyans, are all winners. Our responsibility after the political competition is to come together and work to build the nation." Uhuru, who was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, said Kenyans want to live together as one so they should be dragged into political battles. “Within the political world, it is normal to have differences but that does not mean we can’t co-exist and live together in peace." The Jubilee Party boss said his primary responsibilities are peace for all Kenyans and unity for the sake of development.  Deputy President William Ruto speaks at Redeemed Gospel Church in Huruma, Nairobi, during a service on November 26, 2017. /PSCU Ruto urged the public to shun those preaching hate, negative ethnicity and divisive politics. “Today, let us all resolve that we will refuse hate, resist negative ethnicity and reject divisive politics so we can live together as one people - the people of the great nation of Kenya." The DP said he was in church with the President to fulfill a covenant they made with God - that if He grants them victory they will glorify Him. He asked citizens to continuously build bridges of friendship and brotherhood because that is the will of God. He further asked religious leaders to pray for the President and his team so they can have the wisdom to serve everybody irrespective of political affiliations. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said his administration is ready to work with the national government to ensure the city is safe and that the rights of every person are safeguarded. "A few people should not be allowed to violate the rights of others. We have witnessed women being stabbed, property looted and others destroyed. We will not allow this to continue." Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and Ruto's wife Rachel also addressed the congregation. Click here for the latest political news  