Raila Odinga has announced he will be sworn-in as President through the People's Assembly and get into State House on December 12. The NASA leader withdrew an earlier statement against this shortly after Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto's swearing-in at Kasarani stadium on Tuesday. The People's Assembly is part of NASA's multi-pronged strategy to end Uhuru's rule. "Uhuru Kenyatta is not the President of Kenya. We will not be sworn-in like  [Ugandan Opposition leader Kizza] Besigye. We will be sworn-in like it was done with [Emmerson] Mnangagwa in Zimbabwe," he said. "They have sworn-in Uhuru as President. We will also have a swearing-in]." Chaos broke out before the Opposition leader could finish his speech; police moved in to disperse his supporters using tear gas and their guns. They fired many shots and teargassed Raila's convoy, forcing the supporters to hide between cars. The people and leaders left after police remained firm and opposed their assembly.  NASA supporters clash with police during an address by chief Raila Odinga on Manyanja road in Donholm, Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS Beigye was sworn in on May 11, 2016, a day before incumbent Yoweri Museveni's inauguration. The politician, who belongs to the Forum for Democratic Change, was arrested several times after the country's disputed February 18 general election. "Winner of the 2016 election, after swearing in as the new President of Uganda," the party wrote on Twitter on that day. Police arrested him as he addressed a crowd in Kampala after the ceremony. Zimbabwe's events were different as Mnangagwa took over after Robert Mugabe was forced to resign, ending his 37-year rule. More on this: [VIDEO] Besigye 'sworn in' as Uganda President day before Museveni's ceremony Read: Mugabe resigns as Zimbabwe president after four decades  A police officer pushes a NASA supporter during their clash with police during an address by chief Raila Odinga on Manyanja road in Donholm, Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS Earlier today, two people were shot dead in Soweto as police manned Jacaranda grounds to prevent NASA's memorial service. A witness from The Star said the two were shot in the head. Another person sustained a deep cut to the head during the incident that has resurrected claims of the presence of Mungiki militia. In nearby Donholm, a resident hid under his car when he saw police firing tear gas and gunshots to disperse NASA supporters. More on this:  Two shot dead in Soweto as police keep NASA supporters off Jacaranda Also read: Cops fire tear gas, seal off Jacaranda grounds ahead of NASA rally Click here for the latest political news