As the world marked Diabetes Day last week, many patients were grappling with the high cost of medicine. Cathrine Wanjala had just bought her weekly supply of insulin and tablets. It cost Sh1,500, and she worries that not many people can afford it. Wanjala said this is the most expensive part of having to live with diabetes. Soon after her marriage in 2004, and like in every African set-up, she was expected to start a family. Wanjala soon got pregnant. However, eight weeks into the pregnancy, her dreams of being a mother were shattered when she lost the baby. “The pregnancy was going on well until one evening I spotted some blood. I rushed to the hospital but it was too late, I lost the baby,” she said. Wanjala said during daytime, she had done a lot of house chores. She thought it was the straining that had caused the miscarriage. Eager to be a mother, she got pregnant again a few months later, this time determined to bring the child to the world. However, as fate would have it, she lost the pregnancy again. “Losing a pregnancy twice is not an easy thing. It is the time you will see the true colours of your partner and in-laws,” she said. “However, in my case, I saw God in all this painful journey. My husband and in-laws were so supportive of me. They encouraged me and held my hand throughout.” Wanjala said her supportive husband never allowed anyone to mock her due to the problem and always prayed alongside her for God to bless them with children.     THIRD-TIME LUCKY In 2005, once again, she got pregnant. As a precaution, her gynecologist directed her to undergo several tests to determine the cause of the previous miscarriages. “A doctor from one of the city hospitals revealed that I was diabetic and it had been the major cause of the miscarriages,” Wanjala said. Her doctor then put her under observation and medication, considering that she was pregnant. She was put under total bed rest, and her husband had to do everything for her. “My husband would come home during lunch hours and cook lunch for me before heading back to the office. He would also clean the house and do the laundry. It was not easy for me because I was used to doing everything by myself and now I had to depend on someone,” she said. Being under diabetic diet, she kept off sugary foods. She also had to undergo several tests and scanning to check if the baby was doing fine. Despite being under insulin for the last month of the pregnancy, she gave birth normally to a baby boy. After the birth of her first child, life went back to normal, with hopes that she might have healed. Two years later, she thought she’d got pregnant again. Her doctor informed her that the pregnancy had characteristics of a baby but in real sense, it was a tumor and they had to get rid of it by surgery. But the doctors never operated her, as the tumor came out by itself and was later cleaned up. She was advised not to get pregnant soon and let her womb heal completely and her hormones go back to normal. In 2008, she again got pregnant and was immediately put on insulin and other medicine, as her blood pressure was also high. This time, she was put to bed rest for the entire nine months, although at times she would defy doctors’ orders and run some errands by herself. However, she noticed something unusual, whereby her bump was growing small by shrinking instead of growing big. “I was almost on due date and the bump was too small, such that my doctor was unsure of the due date. The scan also indicated that the baby’s growth was behind by four weeks,” she said. Her doctor suggested she undergo elective Caesarean section, as she could not go for the required 40 weeks. But on the last weeks, everything normalised.  During the operation, the baby came out well and mature, though she weighed 1kg only and looked like a bottle and was, therefore, put on incubator. The baby stayed in the hospital for a month, and Wanjala had to go to the hospital every morning to express milk for the baby. However, the immunity of the child became a bit weak and she easily got sick. Wanjala said all the stages of a child were delayed, and she has been forced to be taking the child to hospital for occupational therapy on brain stimulation. “She started walking at the age of two and speaking at four, but I thank God it’s not a major problem or abnormality,” she said. In 2015, she got pregnant for her third born and became a walking chemist, as she had to walk with her insulins, stripes and glucometer. She also had a notebook where she recorded her progress, which she would present to the doctor during her clinic visits. “On this pregnancy, she did not have any major problem, although she underwent elective surgery.”   MOOD SWINGS Diabetes to the mother of three did not come as a surprise, as she lost her father to diabetes nine years ago. Her mother and three of her brothers are also living with diabetes. Wanjala said perceptions surrounding diabetes in the society are worrying. This is largely due to the effects of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). For people with diabetes, hypoglycemia occurs when there’s too much insulin and not enough sugar (glucose) in the blood. Called hypo in short, it may greatly increase your emotional response, which can make you exceptionally happy, silly, worried, frightened, paranoid or angry. The effect can be strikingly similar to a person who is drunk. Wanjala said she steers clear of gatherings because she knows she might get hypos and be forced to inject herself. “You know people would not understand why you are injecting yourself or why you decline to eat the food they have prepared,” she said. Diabetes is one of the worst diseases because sometimes you are moody, lose your appetite, sweat a lot and even lose your senses for sometime, she said. Wanjala said it is easy for someone to die from diabetes since it is so expensive to live with it. She said she tries her best to cope but the economy prevents her from dieting as advised by doctors. “I eat whatever I get but I always tell God to take control of my health,” she said. Wanjala thanks God that her children are okay, as they were tested after birth. She called on the government to invest in informing and educating people on diabetes.   “When you get a hypo, you lose your mind and can also lose your life. Families and workmates should know how to administer first aid or inject the patient,” she said. She also urged the government to zero-rate diabetes medicine, as many people cannot afford it.   MILLIONS KILLED According to the International Diabetes Federation, diabetes is the ninth leading cause of deaths worldwide, causing deaths of 2.1 women annually. Currently, at least 119 million women suffer diabetes globally, with the statics projected at 313 million by 2040. The report by IDF indicates that women suffering from type 2 of the disease are more likely to get diseases such as coronary heart disease. It also indicates that women with type 1 have increased risks of early miscarriage or having babies with deformities. IDF suggests that prevention strategies should be aimed at maternal health and nutrition, as well as health patterns during and after pregnancy. Early this year, Diabetes Management Resource Centre-Kenya petitioned the government to zero-rate the medical supplies. However, their efforts seem to have failed, as the prices remain hiked. DMRC executive director Duncan Motanya said it has become hard to purchase the kits and diabetes supplies due to the skyrocketed prices. Motanya said the government ought to review and remove VAT tax obligation on glucometers and strips, insulin pumps, lancet devices and lancets, therapeutic shoes and modern insulin storage bags. These are the essential items used by the patients in their daily basis. Motanya said 10ml insulin currently goes for Sh800 in most pharmacies, yet according to records, the drug is not taxed. He further said most government hospitals lack these essential drugs, while some hospitals charge patients for it. A stripe, which is also used in measuring patients’ sugar level and blood glucose, costs Sh50. A patient is required to carry out the test four times per day, which translates to Sh200. “This Sh200 is only for tests. It costs more when the patients need pills, insulin and diet management,” he said. “A day in the life of a person with diabetes cost at least Sh500 if he were to manage his condition as recommended.”  Motanya said inaccessibility of medication due to its costly nature has resulted in most patients defaulting on their management procedures. Poor monitoring can lead to diabetes-related complications, such as kidney failure, heart attack, stroke and blindness. Motanya said the high rate of diabetes in urban areas is due to the lifestyle, such as drinking and smoking, while most cases in rural areas are hereditary.   (+)  WHAT TO DO WHEN A DIABETIC GETS A HYPO -Try as much as you can to communicate with her. Inquire whether she took any medicine before  -If she did, mix some water with sugar or any sugary substance such as soda, and make her drink it before rushing her to hospital -If she did not use any drugs, administer the drugs before rushing her to hospital