Coast leaders have declared determination to secede saying the region has been marginalised by governments since independence. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi led more than 12 MPs, senators and woman representatives in making the announcement at his office on Friday. Joho and Kingi, who have declared interest in the presidency come 2022, seem to have shelved their ambitions to pursue self-rule. "We wish to state that since independence, successive governments have marginalised, and continue to marginalise and oppress our people," stated a statement read by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo. "Therefore, those governments have no moral authority to govern us. It is no longer feasible for us as a people to continue in a country that does not recognise our aspirations as legitimate." Calls for self-rule were started by the Mombasa Republican Council several years ago. MRC has shelved the ambition and now supports President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party administration. Kingi said: "It is impossible for a Kenyan from a small ethnic group to dream of becoming a president of this republic. Therefore, there is need for coast to secede and be led by its people." The Coast region has six counties - Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Tana River and Taita Taveta. But four governors - Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Fahim Twaha (Lamu), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta) and Dado Godana (Tana River) did not attend the press conference. On October 24, politician Hussein Dado dismissed claims that a section of Coast leaders were scheming a secession from the rest of Kenya. The Former Tana River Governor noted Kenya is a sovereign state with 47 counties so no region will be separated from the others. More on this: Dado dismisses secession claims, urges Coast to elect Uhuru Also read: Secession talk stirs Coast amid election uncertainty Joho said they will engage local leaders and citizens in a series of meetings on secession talk until they achieve their goal. "We already have a framework and strategies in place," the ODM deputy leader said, noting their team has three lawyers. Kingi, Madzayo and Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki are the lawyers who will lead the process. "They will lead the process through legal means. We (those who do not have a background in law) will lead the political process," Joho said. MPs Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) Mishi Mboko (Likoni), William Kamoti (Rabai), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and Paul Katana (Kaloleni) also attended the press conference. Also present were Abdulswamad Nassi (Mvita), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Jones Mulolwa (Voi), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Asha Hussein (Mombasa woman representative). Senators Jones Mwaruma (Taita Taveta), Mohammed Faki (Mombasa) and Issa Juma Boy (Kwale) were also present. Related: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott