Article 36 of the Constitution of Kenya provides
for freedom of association and any limitation of a fundamental right of freedom
should be reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society.  Any action taken by a public officer, whether
they are following powers given to them by an Act of Parliament or whether they
are exercising discretion has to comply with the Constitution. The first principle in the Constitution is
that if you want to limit fundamental rights and freedom, the limitations
should be reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society, unless
it’s a fundamental right that is interfering with the rights of other people.
That is under Article 24 of the Constitution. That is the first principle. 
 It doesn’t matter who you are and where you –
the registrar of companies and the registrar of societies, among others, any
public officer who runs a regulatory regime where they register corporate
persons. Not natural persons, but the association of persons must comply with
the constitutional principles. Once you beyond the constitutional
principles, it is possible for good reasons for any of those registrars either to
refuse to register an organization or give a directive that limits the ability to
associate if you have not complied with the Act of Parliament that applies. There may be cases where associations that
have not been registered become subject to the directives of a registrar. For
example, there is a Sports Act and there is a registrar under that Act.
And so if you decide to have a sports association of some kind, the registrar
can decide we already have that kind of association and stop you from
registering and assuming the same name.  There may be special cases where a registrar
can give directives that affect an association of people that have not been
registered under particular statutes. But the general principle is the
constitutional principle. Yes, there is a threat to civil society
organizations because frequently they may highlight abuses of state power, they
may mediate between the state and the citizens. And sometimes the state may
feel threatened by activities of civil society organizations, of whatever kind
they are. And this is not just in Kenya, but anywhere in the world. But when civil
society of whatever kind takes positions that are independent or opposed to the
agenda of the state, the state may view them as rivals. 