Stigma associated with termination of pregnancy continues to keep away women in need of safe abortions from visiting hospitals, medics say. Comprehensive abortion caregivers in Khwisero and Navakholo subcounties in Kakamega say young women fear seeking hospital services during working hours for fear of stigmatisation. They said an average of 10 women seek abortion services at the facilities every month. But most prefer going to the hospital after official working hours because they fear being seen in public. “That fear has forced some to seek services from quacks, resulting in reproductive complications and sometimes death,” a medic told the Star. Abortion is illegal in Kenya, but can be allowed when the life of the mother is at risk. The medics spoke during a consultative meeting on early pregnancies, rape and unsafe abortions at Golf Hotel in Kakamega on Wednesday. The meeting organised by IPAS Alliance Africa brought together teachers, local administrators, religious leaders and members of VORCA and Bumulusi CBOs which are promoting awareness on safe abortion in Khwisero and Navakholo sub-counties. Participants agreed on the need to educate women on the importance of seeking safe abortions in emergency cases.They resolved to promote Sexual Reproductive Health Rights. Teachers said they have formed students’ clubs where learners freely discuss SRHR.  It was also realised that some volunteer children officers and paralegals were running kangaroo courts and taking bribes from victims of sexual violence instead of assisting them. Teachers employed by boards of management were also blamed for sexual violation in schools. In August, a secondary school teacher in nearbyTeso South constituency committed suicide after allegedly impregnating a student. The 28-year-old hanged himself fearing the wrath of the girl’s parents and “embarrassment” to his own mother. Particiapnts called for the hiring of more female teachers who can advise young girls. But boda boda operators remain the major cause of unwanted pregnancies among school girls, participants said. “The riders seduce the young girls with small gifts and later bribe their way out of punishment,” a teacher told the conference.