Last month, I wrote to the IEBC to inform of my a desire to have a referendum conducted to redefine the territory of Kenya, and have the country split into two distinct nations. I have since submitted to the commission a Bill to amend the Constitution for formal approval. Since then, there have been heated public discourse either advocating or opposing secession. Predictably, the debate has already torn the country into two, with people from the larger Central Kenya fervently opposing, and those from other regions of the country supporting the idea. At the Coast, the political leadership has formally signified their intention to secede, citing the failure by successive post-Independence governments to treat historical injustices around land, exclusion and ethnic discrimination in public service and distribution of national resources, and the systemic curtailment of devolution by the national government. The truth is that the idea of secession is fast gaining traction, and it will soon be unstoppable unless we directly confront the problems ailing our nationhood. We need to ask: Why are some citizens so happy to break away from a country others so much cherish? Why should a matter that should ordinarily enjoy random support or opposition from across the country excite such ethnically delineated passions? The fact is that it is no mere coincidence that sections of the country that oppose this split have held the presidency, controlled state power and ensuing national resources and opportunities since Independence. It is also true that citizens, who enthusiastically support secession, see themselves as victims of targeted, systemic and systematic marginalization by the state since Independence. Kenya is not a nation; but a country of over 40 tribal nations, sharing nothing but geographical space. The establishment of the Kenyan nation is long sabotaged by the post-Independence rulers, who have captured the state and are ready to do anything to retain political and economic power. And so, Kenya is not a democracy but an electoral autocracy, secured through sham elections proceeded by systemic and systematic suppression of the ruled-communities, manipulation of ethnic census and the voter register and barefaced rigging. Worse still, the modern-day rulers of the country have indoctrinated their ethnic nationals to believe other Kenyans are lesser citizens, who must be dehumanised and persistently humiliated to secure eternal submission. The idea that we are equal citizens created by one God is long discarded! Whilst equal ownership and indiscriminate sharing of national resources and opportunities is the most fundamental ideal of a nation, communities advocating secession have been rendered mere taxpayers, without corresponding right to equal opportunities and service. The constitutional call to secure the face of Kenya, ethnic and regional balance in public appointments, and to ensure equity in the allocation of national resources has not been heeded. A walk into government offices, parastatals, state corporations and our foreign missions and embassies leaves one asking whether Kenya is a one-tribe state or the multi-ethnic society it is! All-important public appointments only benefit and have remained the eternal preserve of just a few groups. The national budget is permanently skewed to benefit some regions and to marginalize the rest. The bulk of the national budget is retained by the national government to be looted with only one tenth of the national budget going to counties, despite bearing the heaviest burden of citizens’ public service needs. The only way out is to recall our national values; or, split the country as proposed. A nation is more than country or territory. Being Kenyan should cease to be determined by mere geography or ethnicity, soil or blood. It must involve unqualified devotion by all to the national values so aptly prescribed in the Constitution — democracy and participation of the people, human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalized. All citizens must feel fully and equally Kenyan. We must be proud of our diversity and rebuff ethnic bigotry in any form. We must restore democratic governance — stop manipulation of ethnic census and voters register, halt the culture of sham and rigged elections and secure inclusivity, justice and equity for all citizens, without discrimination. Any pretense at nationhood absent these is bane hypocrisy. The pursuit of freedom, dignity and justice is the inherent preoccupation of all humanity. No amount of tyranny will make the marginalized populations yield to continued suppression. Restore and allow those seeking to secede their dignity and freedoms and they will remain Kenyans. Deny them these inalienable human rights and watch them self-determine and break free!   Kaluma is the Homa Bay Town MP, gpdkaluma@gmail.com      