It’s hard to imagine the situation AFC Leopards could have been in had the club’s executive not made the timely decision to appoints Robert Matano as coach back in July. Then under the brief reign of Dorian Marin, Leopards were 12th and very much bogged with the threat of relegation but the mere arrival of the Lion at the den galvanized the club.  Though the rise up the table that as expected did not fully materialize, it was always clear that Leopards were going nowhere with Matano in charge. Ingwe, who beat Nakumatt 1-0 on Sunday last week courtesy of a first half goal by Andrew Tololwa, collected three crucial points that saw them rise to safety on 39 points and at position 12. With two rounds of matches to play, none of the two basement sides can catch up with Ingwe. While admitting that it was uncomfortable to be part of seven teams that were tussling to avoid filling up the two drop spots, Matano told KPL official portal that he was never in doubt that Leopards would never have dropped to the lower division—not under his watch. “I knew there was no way we would go down. We have good players and they weren’t going to let that happen. I wasn’t going to let that happen either. After we won the GOtv Shield, I told the players that they have won the toughest matches of the season. All the other matches would be routine, and I asked them to make sure they win them the same way. “We started of losing to Nzoia (Sugar), but came up against Nakumatt and thumped them, and now I am sure that we shall get no less than four points in the our next two games,” Matano remarked. “If you look at our game against Nakumatt, the boys were very active and enterprising throughout the game. We created so many chances in both halves of the game—which is good—but the problem we have is failing to utilize our chances. Strikers just cannot make that decisive play and that has been going on for a while. But we will be doing something about that in the coming season. You have not seen AFC yet, I tell you.” Ingwe will face Chemelil Sugar on Sunday at Kasarani before concluding their campaign with a game away at relegated Muhoroni Youth on November 18 at Awendo Green Stadium.