Presidents Yoweri Museveni, John Magufuli and Paul Kagame are among at least 11 dignitaries who will attend Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing-in on Tuesday. Alongside the Ugandan, Tanzanian and Rwandan leaders will be Edgar Lungu of Zambia, Israel PM Benjamin Netanyahu and Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia. In a notice on Monday, the Foreign Affairs ministry said that also present will be Botswana’s Ian Khama, Ismaïl Omar Guelleh of Djibouti, Namibia’s Hage Geingob, Faure Gnassingbé of Togo and Mohamed Farmajo of Somalia. Other nations expected to send their Vice Presidents and Prime Ministers are Nigeria, Guinea, Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi and Yemen. According to State House, Senegal, China and Japan will send special envoys while South Africa, Britain, Ukraine and India will send their Foreign Affairs ministers. Last week, government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe said many dignitaries are expected and called on Kenyans to attend the ceremony in large numbers. City police commander Japeth Koome also said this while announcing the security plan on Saturday. He said there will be no compromise. Read: Koome names red zones, talks tough on security for Uhuru swearing-in But the Opposition's NASA coalition has refussed to recognise or acknowledge Uhuru's win in the repeat presidential race of October 26. Candidates Raila Odinga (ODM) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) pulled out of the election saying there were no reforms and that the outcome had been predetermined. NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula has insisted that nothing will stop the coalition from holding its planned rally at Jacaranda grounds on Tuesday. The Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader downplayed orders by police who have declared the memorial service, for supporters killed during protests, illegal. Read: NASA's Tuesday rally will take place despite police ban - Wetang'ula Police announced finishing preparations for the inauguration and on Sunday, Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto said Kenyans should attend the "celebration of diversity". More on this: UhuRuto preach unity, say swearing-in a celebration of diversity Also read: Faceoff as cops ban NASA city prayer meeting   Click here for the latest political news  