Nominated MP Jennifer Shamalla yesterday told a court that she qualifies to represent the marginalised groups in Parliament because she falls in the category of people with special interests. She said she is of mixed heritage of the Asian and Luhya communities. Shamalla said she represents the Luhyas in Jubilee because they are a minority in the party. Aden Ali claimed he was shortchanged by the IEBC, which “unlawfully and unconstitutionally listed Shamalla under the special interest group, ahead of the nominee for the marginalised or minority groups” on the JP list to the National Assembly. He wants the court to nullify Shamalla’s nomination and have the Gazette notice by the IEBC listing her as a marginalised minority quashed. But Shamalla said she was lawfully nominated by JP. “We are at the bottom of the ladder of minority. There’s secret. My mother is a Kenyan- Pakistani, who has lived here for 40 years,” she said. Shamalla added, “I’m a Kenyan of mixed heritage. My mother is of Pakistani heritage and my father is an Isukha of Luhya origin.” Ali said the IEBC also acted in contempt of judgment and decree issued by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal that Shamalla’s name be struck off the list. He also wants an order to compel the IEBC to gazette him as the nominee of Jubilee Party to the National Assembly to represent the marginalised groups. “The action is against a decree and order issued by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal on July 29, served by Jubilee Party, owing to the fact that Shamalla will be sworn in on August 31,” Noor said in an affidavit. The tribunal also ordered that the IEBC reconstitutes the party list in accordance with the law. “Chebukati has failed, neglected and refused to comply with the decree of the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal made on July 29,” Ali’s affidavit reads. He said he is fit for the position as he comes from a marginalised community and is a member of Jubilee Party. The petition will be mentioned on November 21 for submissions.