Kenya has one of
the poorest savings culture in Africa. In 2015, the country’s gross national
savings stood at 12.7 per cent of the GDP, well below the continent’s average of
14.7 per cent for similar sized economies, according to the World Bank. One of the population
segments that is adversely affected by this poor savings culture is the young
working class. These are young Kenyans on their first or second jobs. They are keen
on making their way up the middle class and achieving financial freedom, but
frequently make poor financial decisions such as taking unnecessary car loans.
This limits their ability to save, invest and prosper. In a country
where owning a home is a luxury due to unaffordability, a car is ideally the
next best status symbol. This explains why cars, especially secondhand ones,
which account for 80 per cent of motor vehicles in Kenya, are an increasingly
popular purchase among young professionals.  However, buying
a car is a critical financial decision that should never be made in haste, as
is often the case when many young professionals take car loans just because these
facilities are available. Taking out a car loan should be preceded by careful
consideration of a range of factors. A car that is bought without
sufficient prior reflection typically comes with unexpected expenditures that
limit savings. Before you buy a
car, particularly if you are doing so on loan, you should assess your financial
preparedness, the total cost of owning and operating the motor vehicle, the
cost of insurance and the utility of the vehicle in relation to your transport
needs. Buying a car is the
easy part. The real expenses come when you start operating and maintaining the
car. Therefore, you should not just focus on the purchase price, but closely
examine costs such as fuel consumption, repairs, spare parts and
insurance, among others. You must weigh
the total cost of operating and maintaining the car against your income and long-term
financial goals. It is important that after spending on your car, you have
enough money left to sustain a decent quality of life and grow your savings.  Savings provide
a soft landing in times of financial shock such as job loss, allowing one to
clear their debts on time and still get by. A young professional with dreams of
achieving financial freedom needs to minimise the possibility of defaulting on loans,
as this could negatively impact their credit ratings and limit their access to
a loan in future when they really need it—for instance, when starting a
business.  Moreover, saving
not only benefits the saver, but the economy as a whole by increasing the pool
of domestic savings. This helps cut dependence on foreign direct investment. Kenya’s current heavy dependence on FDIs means that the country relies
on the surplus produced in other countries to grow. This is not always sustainable
as global economic shocks may cut the flow of investments into the country.  As stakeholders
in the financial services sector, we need to start encouraging the youth to
save. A key intervention to advance this agenda is sensitising young people joining
the middle class on the importance of prudently planning for critical purchases
such as a motor vehicle. Although it may
appear counterproductive for a bank to advise a customer to reconsider or
postpone buying a car on loan, it is not. On the contrary, it serves in the
bank’s long-term interests. A customer who buys a car when they are financially
prepared will be able to pay off the loan on time, save a portion of their income,
invest and grow. Naturally, the bank that supports such a customer will grow
with them through their journey by offering a wider range of products to serve
their evolving financial needs.  Deputy Director for Asset Finance at NIC Bank  Lennox.mugambi@nicgroup.com     