Deputy President William Ruto and other Rift Valley leaders have been told to respect NASA chief Raila Odinga as they will need his support politically. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa and Nyando MP Jared Okello cautioned their Rift Valley counterparts against attacking Raila if they want to ascend to power in 2022. The ODM legislators said Raila mentored Ruto politically and he should respect and be grateful to him. They said the DP has been insulting the former Prime Minister, despite having been taught by Raila. The leaders spoke at the weekend at the Chemelil Sugar Company in Muhoroni, where Agriculture CS Willy Bett was present. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Tinderet MP Julius Melly and Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei also attended. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and Muhoroni MP Onyango K’Oyoo also attended the function, where Sh300 million was paid to sugarcane farmers. Outa said as people who worked together in 2007, the Kalenjin leaders should stop bashing their Luo neighbours to make Ruto’s bid for the top seat a reality. The DP has positioned himself to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.  “It is not a guarantee that the people you are currently working with will back you in 2022, going by their history since the entry of multiparty democracy in 1992,” Outa said. The Nandi county boss said politics should not divide the Luo and Kalenjin communities. Sang said leaders from both sides should focus on preaching peace at the Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi borders. He said Luos and Kalenjins have lived in peace for years and should not be divided along tribal and political affiliation. “We supported Raila in 2007 and he owes us the support. When the time comes ... we will come so that he pays us,” Sang said. Outa asked Ruto to respect the NASA leader, saying he sacrificed a lot and selflessly fought for the democracy that Kenyans are currently enjoying. “He has been insulting and calling Raila all sorts of names. But I want to tell him that his presidency ambition will never come true without our support,” Outa said. Okello said Ruto should tread carefully with regard to Raila. He asked those allied to Ruto to be careful in the manner in which they handle Raila. “You should not destroy the ladder that enabled you to reach where you are. You will one day require the same ladder,” he said.