The Simbas got their Four Nations campaign on losing note after succumbing 23-3 to Chile at the King’s Park ground in Hong Kong yesterday. The Simbas rarely clicked in the game and failed to adapt to the sweltering conditions unlike their opponents who are ranked a place above them. Chile started the match strongly and dominated possession and territory. They took the lead courtesy of a penalty by fullback Tomas Laniszewski for a 3-0 lead. Kenya re-grouped and began to string phases of play but poor ball handling led to knock-ons and turnovers hence curtailed the attack in a frenetic opening 15 minutes. The Simbas got on the board in the 24th minute when the Chilean forwards were caught offside and Darwin Mukidza slotted home the penalty to tie the match at 3-3. The game continued to ebb and flow with both teams guilty of errors in both attack and defence.  Chile were handed a penalty in the 32nd minute following an infringement by the Simbas and Laniszewski made no mistake, slotting over the penalty for a 6-3 lead at interval. The Chileans came out roaring in the second half, probing and looking to exploit Simbas’ defence with excellent ball carrying with Kenyans on the back foot. Laniszewski missed a penalty in the 45th minute but sustained pressure by the Chileans forwards produced results in the 54th minute when Laniszewski scored a try and converted it to catapult Chile to 13-3 lead.  The Simbas re-grouped and missed a golden opportunity to bring themselves back into the game when flanker George Nyambua spilled the ball with the try-line beckoning. Jerome Paarwater made four changes, bringing in the Oscar Simiyu for Moses Amusala, Philip Ikambili for Peter Kaaria, Lyle Asiligwa for Sam Onsomu and Biko Adema for Nato Simiyu but the move failed to yield the desired results. Benjamin Soto was to take quick tap penalty and he dived over the whitewash to score Chile’s second try which was converted by Laniszweski for a 20- 3 lead. He added a penalty four minutes later to seal the match.  Kenya’s  next face Russia on Tuesday while Chile face Hong Kong.