Title: This Is Me Artist: Niniola Genre: Afro-pop, Afro-house Release: October 30   So Niniola Apata, simply known by her stage name Niniola, continues to peddle the notion that she is a talent to reckon with. In 2013, she found her way to fame after finishing third runner-up on the sixth season of Project Fame West Africa.  The 30-year-old Nigerian songstress has been attempting to capture the girl-power theatrics. It has taken her a significant amount of time to release any noticeable work. She has built herself up from singles and finally, she has released her debut LP, “This Is Me”. The 13-track album kicks off with the soul-striking, melodic track “Moyo”, which appears more like a prayer, where she expresses her appreciation and repentance. Oyin is one of those amazing tunes that show the continuous niche she has identified and occupied. Switching between English and Yoruba, the female artiste gives us a powerful project that will take a keen listener about 45 minutes to take in. The album has essential tracks such “Dola”, “Gbohun”, “Maradona” and “Sicker”. Niniola limits her guest list to four artists. Terry Apala offers his powerful vocals on the track “Bale”, Charmant delivers a Lingala vibe spicing up “Always Here”, “Devin Di Dakta” switches it up to dancehall on the track “You”, and “Patoranking” graces the closing track “Hold Me”, expressing his usual outstanding charm. Niniola is now a valuable contender amongst the ranks. Her voice is quite resourceful and has a variance, a smooth one, to its finish. “This Is Me” comes at a time when every artiste out of Nigeria is doing music that will keep them relevant in the industry. But she has a refreshing and authentic sound that we certainly want to listen to. Not much has been seen of the songstress, but she is now amongst the female pop stars out there exhibiting their ingenuity. If you have been looking for something new and tender to add to your playlist, Niniola should be a rightful addition. From this compilation, you can certainly agree that she is headed for greatness — probably join the ranks of the top African artistes.   Star Rating:  3 out 5