NASA leader Raila Odinga is disappointed that police officers shot some of his supporters. In his address after flying back from the US on Friday, the opposition leader said his anger towards President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto had increased. Raila noted it was unfair for the government to deploy officers to "aimlessly shoot" at supporters who braved the cold to receive him at the airport. "Mimi nilikuwa nimesafiri Ulaya. Uhuru alijua mahali nilikuwa nimeenda. Nilikuwa nimerudi na habari njema lakini nimekasirika sana na hasira yangu ni kwa huyu kijana anaitwa Uhuru na deputy wake," Raila said. This loosely translated to: "I had gone on a trip abroad. Uhuru knew where I had gone. I returned with good news but I am so angry and my anger is towards this boy Uhuru and his deputy." Raila said he expected Uhuru to receive him at the airport, not tear gas. "I want to thank you all for supporting me. We are firm and I promise our journey to liberation is inevitable. I want to tell Uhuru that the third liberation has come and his government must fall," he told the crowd at Kibra's Olympic grounds. Read: Raila return: NASA moves rally to Kibra, supporters burn vehicles The opposition leader said this was just the beginning and that the day will go into the political calendar as a special one. "I will soon make an announcement of what I mean by the third liberation," he said. He added the NASA coalition will stand firm in the quest for a revolution in the electoral process. "Cannan is real," he also said, in reference to a country he envisions as free from ills such as corruption and injustices against helpless people. Raila's sentiments were echoed by former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale who said the entire NASA fraternity will not back down until reforms are implemented. Khalwale noted no amount of intimidation or harassment will stop the coalition. "They are persecuting us because we stand with you. We are firm and we shall soldier on," he said. More on this: 'Why do they want to kills us': Raila's supporters served tear gas, bullets Also read: Windscreen of Raila's car damaged on Jogoo Road  