Sofapaka defender Humphrey Okoti has urged his teammates not to relent in their pursuit of the runners-up slot in the Sportpesa Premier League title as a precursor to a serious title challenge next season. Okot, who scored the winner as Batoto Ba Mungu pipped outgoing champions Tusker 1-0, said despite the disappointment of not winning a trophy this season, the team should be proud of themselves for their high placement, just a year after they escaped relegation. “Obviously we wanted to win a trophy this season. But we cannot be disappointed with ourselves for where we are right now. We had a lot of new players coming in and that should put us in a good place to compete and win trophies next year,” said the burly 31-year old defender. The victory over the brewers saw Sofapaka move to a point clear in second place with 52, a massive 21 points behind champions Gor Mahia. “We have to maintain our standards when the new season comes. Gor have a squad that has been together for a couple of years but I believe very strongly that we will be competing with them on equal footing next season,” added Okot. Sofapka face relegation threatened Zoo Kericho in their final match of the campaign on Saturday Meanwhile despite their 1-0 win over Chemelil Sugar on Sunday AFC Leopards coach Robert Matano has come down hard on Burundian forward Alex Kitenge for his profligacy in front of goal. Kitenge, who was played as the lead striker by Ingwe in the match, squandered several chances in the second half but the damage on Chemelil had long been done as the Leopards registered back-to-back wins. “You will never see him (Kitenge) again in our matches. That boy has missed so many chances and that is a clear demonstration of lack of skill and intelligence. It is a pity we don’t have depth in our squad and we had to field him today. But if a striker wastes that number of chances, he is not worthy of wearing an AFC shirt. I am very disappointed with his performance today,” Leopards coach Matano said after the match. Leopards will be away to already relegated Muhoroni Youth on Saturday when the curtains come down on the 2017 season.