Bungoma county and Iteso community were ordered to resolve, out of court, a matter in which the community has sued the county for sidelining them in cabinet jobs. Bungoma High Court Judge Abida Aroni had given the parties up to Wednesday, to decide on an out of court settlement, failure which she was to issue a judgment yesterday. Talks on an out of court settlement were still ongoing by presstime. Members of the Iteso went to court and secured orders stopping the vetting of county executive nominees. The Iteso spokesman David Kapule said they had been marginalised because none of their members was nomination to the cabinet. “We are the third largest community in the county yet, the governor sidelined us when he unveiled his list of county executive nominees,” Kapule said. The community overwhelmingly voted for Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and therefore deserved a slot in his cabinet. Seven of the 10 nominees had been vetted when the order stopping the process was issued last Friday. “Devolution came to assist some of the marginalised communities like the Iteso. We must therefore defend our right to be recognised,” Kapule said. Health nominee Anthony Walela was largely thought to be an Iteso community member when the list first came out. Wangamati had said Walela would represent the Iteso in his cabinet. Walela is a native of Bumula. During vetting, Walela said he was not an Iteso and declared he was a Bukusu. “Even if am greeted in Iteso language, I can’t answer back,” Walela told the vetting committee last week Wednesday. It was then that the Iteso elders sought orders to stop the vetting process. Aroni asked the two parties to agree on a solution through their respective lawyers. Aroni said the case would hamper development if it continued. Lawyers Amos Makokha representing the county and Hamed Anuari for the Iteso community were expected to brief the court about their agreement yesterday afternoon.  Makokha had asked the court for more time for the parties to reach an agreement. Wangamati has been unable to set up his cabinet, more than 100 days since he took office.