The Lamu Port South Sudan-Ethipia Transport corridor (Lapsset) is set to begin before the end of March next year, but the Boni community is not holding their breath. Not only are they set to miss out on the opportunities it offers, they live in fear of eviction to pave way for it. The project’s advancement follows the disbursement of Sh860 million by the state through the National Land Commission to the bank accounts of 154 individuals, whose land was acquired for the construction of the new Lamu port. The port will be the second in the country after the Mombasa one. The excitement is all over and Kenyans are anxious to experience this giant project. The astonishing port headquarters has already been put up at Kililana area at a whopping Sh866 million. The ongoing construction of the first three terminals of the new Lamu port is now 40 per cent complete. Lapsset project director general Sylvestre Kasuku said the first terminal at the port site will be completed by June next year. Kasuku expressed confidence that all the three terminals will be completed by the end of 020.  He said the three terminals alone will cost Sh48 billion.  The entire Lapsset corridor project is worth Sh2.5 trillion. Kasuku says the authority is currently pursuing the development of the appropriate road infrastructure connections that will connect the port to the rest of the Lapsset corridor as well as other parts of the country and party nations. Kasuku said the project has so far used about Sh15 billion, which has gone into the design works undertaken at the site, together with the general port construction works and auxiliary facilities. “The port construction project is taking shape very well, and so far, we have had to work within the confines of the plan as was intended. We have got a lot of support from the county government of Lamu, the people and other agencies of the national government. I would like to say that we are all working together to deliver the port project,” Kasuku said. ANCESTRAL CLAIMS When a large project like this begins, the area around will always witness a sharp spike in economic activity and most inevitable, a marked social effect in the areas where it’s put up. This has to do with the host communities. It has been noted that in many developing countries, most of the population have no title to the land they live on, despite ancestral claims to land that has been passed down from past generations, like in the case of Lamu. This section is vulnerable to evictions that are done without proper consultations, commensurate compensation or an offer of land elsewhere. Further to displacement, another challenge posed by development projects to the host community is that there is often an import of skilled labour that is not available within the community. This leads to social and economic marginalisation, something that many critics agree pushes the host community further to the periphery of the society. Such is the plight facing the Aweer community, commonly known as the Boni. They see little to celebrate about the Lapsset project, despite its acclaim. Why all the fuss about Lapsset,they ask? They are the least amused about progress at the Lapsset. They are one of Kenya’s last forest communities and have considered themselves marginalised for decades. They occupy Basuba ward, which consists of Basuba, Kiangwe, Mangai, Mararani and Milimani villages. Doza Diza, a vocal elder of the Boni, feels disappointed since the government has not put in place a comprehensive and coherent strategy towards ensuring the community and other indigenous groups are not deprived of their integrity as a people. Diza says there is scant political will towards ensuring communal land is secured, with most lands in Basuba ward still unregistered, hence denying them legal adequate protection for the land. This community has traditionally owned land communally with rules of use and access well stipulated. “Our lands are not registered and that makes easy the work of grabbers.Due to the Lapsset everyone wants a piece of Lamu because of the obvious prospects that come with such an enormous venture. Many kinsmen have already lost their land to grabbers. Things will be worse for us when the port starts functioning. We cannot stop worrying that one day we shall be rendered squatters right on our own land. After all, there isn’t any law to protect us from that,” Diza said. The community initially occupied the Witu and Boni forests, where they pursued their hunter-gatherer lifestyle. However, they were dispersed when the Kenya Defence Forces declared forests a no-go zone following the terror attacks in Lamu and subsequent security operations. Diza says the community has had to contend with constant threats of eviction from perennial claimants upon the land, including the KWS, KFS and private developers who have been granted rights over parts of the land. DESTROYED WAY OF LIFE The construction of the Lapsset has put considerable pressure on landownership and use, with speculators acquiring land, some through illegal, coercive or irregular means, at the expense of the Boni community. “People continue to lose their parcels of land under dubious circumstances or undue intimidation by government officials and private developers,” Diza says. “I have seen cases where one is just told they are on government land and they should move, and without asking questions, failing which one is forcibly evicted.” Mohamed Mbwana, a rights activists in Lamu and a worthy historian, says the main reason the Boni cannot protect their lands from grabbers is that much of their ancestral land is still in bloc form and has never been demarcated. “We have witnessed situations where someone wakes up and finds their home fenced off and the owner told not to set foot on it. The authorities do less if not anything at all. People just care for the Lapsset but tramp on the rights of this community in the process. It’s worse that the land of the Boni is closest to the Lapsset,” Mbwana says. He says the Boni are being forced to abandon their traditional cultural lifestyle and assimilate into the mainstream society through forcible removal from traditional lands juts to make way for the Lapsset infrastructure. “Development-induced displacement and resettlement, which is actually forced migration in the name of development, is exactly what happened with Lapsset. People are losing more than the small compensation can buy: a destroyed culture and way of life,”says Mbwana. Mbwana says the people who face such migrations are often helpless, suppressed by powers and laws of the nation. “Inadequate or altogether absence of rehabilitation policies for such migrants means they are often compensated only monetarily, without proper mechanisms for addressing their grievances or political support to improve their livelihoods,” he adds. Mbwana strongly feels that the long standing historical marginalisation of the Boni makes them vulnerable to competition in the jobs and economic market that industrialisation occasioned by the Lapsset might bring forth. SCARS OF MARGINALISATION The Boni community has extremely high illiteracy levels, significantly few schools, which are rarely open due to the recurrent al Shabaab attacks, poor infrastructure and social amenities. They, thus, cannot compete in the jobs market, moreso where skilled labour is concerned. Lamu East education officer David Kambi says the Boni have only one primary school each per village, most of which have no teachers due to insecurity. All schools in the five Boni villages have been closed for over two years now, after teachers fled due to al Shabaab attacks. “The schools have few classrooms, and students in some still take their classes under trees. There is no single secondary school here, and so you can imagine how many people have acquired a simple KCPE certificate, not to mention the KCSE one,” Kambi says. Transport infrastructure is dilapidated and there is no connection to electric energy, all of which will send the cost of living soaring. Being shut out of Boni forest meant they are forcibly torn off their traditional forms of livelihood and culture, making life even harder for them.  VICTIMS OF ‘RESOURCE CURSE’ Critics feel there will definitely be economic displacement, which means no access to income streams like land, water or forest resulting from the construction and operation of a project of the Lapsset’ magnitude and its associated facilities. Another issue has to do with resource-based conflicts and in Kenya, competition for natural resources has been known to catalyse major conflicts. Abubakar Mohamed of the Save Lamu organisation says the Boni, who are typically hunters and gatherers, are victims of the resource curse at this level. Mohamed says there is expected rise in population due to the Lapsset project and that invariably, the additional population will diffuse into the Lamu mainland where the Aweer people live, something he says will definitely compound the problem relating to the struggle for scarce resources if not addressed. He says discriminative policies and practices by successive governments of issuing title deeds to individuals as gifts or on the basis of tribalism at the expense of this community stand to further catalyse the conflicts. The issue of deeds continues to be marked by a lack of accountability and consultation. “Consequently, the process has proceeded in utter disregard for the unique political, historical and cultural context within which the Lamu communities have lived. There is also the issue of dilution of cultural identity. This community speaks a distinct language, though they have over time been partially assimilated into the dominant Islamic culture in Lamu county,” Mohamed says. He says without a proactive government policy to protect indigenous and minority communities, the Boni community is trending towards extinction. Mohamed says dominant tribes and groupings easily dilute the cultural norms, ethnic identity and language of tribes like the Boni. “In Lamu the Boni have been known to go by two names: Aweer being the preferred name by the community, while the more dominant Bajuni tribe has historically tagged them as the ‘Boni’, referring to their movement from place to place. The last title is derogatory and it is illustrative that even within the marginalised Lamu county, this community is further marginalised economically, socially and politically,” Mohamed said. The Boni of Bargoni have observed that in the political sphere, they are regarded by politicians as insignificant due to their small numbers. Consequently, their aspirations are not prioritised within the local political context. On its part, the lack of a responsive government policy in many respects has led to the continued violation of the community. As everyone struggles to picture the heavy economic and industrial benefits the Lapsset will bring, it’s crucial to stop and take a peek at the sidelines, that the concerns of the Boni are valid and that for them, Lapsset brings no smile but worry about the future once the port is in place.