The Supreme Court could hear petitions challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory under the controversial elections laws hurriedly passed by Jubilee MPs days to the October 26 poll. The David Maraga-led court will have a toll order annulling Uhuru's victory as the new election laws are set to come into force later this week. The Election laws (amendment) Act, 2017 will come into force immediately it is published in the Kenya Gazette. This is because of an express provision in the Act's preamble which outrightly exempts it from going through the statutory 14 days after publication. “This Act may be cited as the Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2017 and shall come into force upon publication in the Gazette,” reads the act. Contrary to political rhetoric, the Act, although it has become law, remain inactive until it is operationalised through publication in the Kenya Gazette. The publication should be done by Friday this week, being the expiry of seven days from the day it became law. Uhuru was required to assent to the bill into law by October 27-forteen days after receipt of the bill from Parliament-but did not. This meant that under the constitution, the bill became an Act of Parliament automatically on the expiry of the period. It only now awaits gazettement to come into force. Kenyans seeking to challenge Uhuru's landslide win in the protests-hit October 26 fresh presidential poll, will have an uphill task to overturn his election as the stringent laws will apply. The Act of Parliament raises the threshold for the nullification of a presidential election, pushing the burden of proof on the petitioner. Section 83 of the Elections Act, as was passed by MPs, makes it almost impossible to annul a sham presidential election based on discrepancies in results forms occasioned by rogue election officials. The section provides that a court shall not declare an election void for non-compliance with any written law relating to that election if:  “(a) it appears that the election was conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution and in that written law; and (b) the non-compliance did not substantially affect the result of the election.” The Act provides that a form prescribed under the law or the IEBC regulations shall not be void by reason of a deviation from the requirements of that form, as long as the deviation is not calculated to mislead.  Article 115 (6) of the constitution gives the president 14 days to assent to bills or refer them back to Parliament failure which they are taken to have been assented to on the expiry of that period. Section 116 of the Constitution reads: “A bill passed by Parliament and assented to by the president shall be published in the Gazette as an Act of Parliament within seven days after assent.” However, other sections of the law espcially those touching on the conduct of presidential election will not apply retroactively to the October 26 polls. The Act requires that where there is a discrepancy between the electronically transmitted and the physically delivered results, the form 34A shall prevail. " Any failure to transmit or publish the election results in an electronic format shall not invalidate the result as announced and declared by the respective presiding and returning officers at the polling station and constituency tallying centre, respectively," reads section 39 (b).