KADU Asili party is
opposed to the calls for secession of Coast saying the move is not the solution to the marginalisation and poverty in the region. Franco Esposito, who lost Magarini MP election on August 8, said the only thing residents want is for their lives can be transformed but not to be split from the rest of Kenya. He said this on Wednesday during a press conference at his Woburn residence in
Magarini with other KADU Asili supporters.  [VIDEO] Coast must secede to end marginalisation, Joho and Kingi say "It is impossible to divide Kenya. Coast cannot secede form other regions," Esposito said. He also welcomed the Supreme Court's decision to dismiss two petitions which challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta's election. The court on Monday held that the cases filed by Njonjo Mue and Khelef Khalif on one hand and that of ex-Kilome MP Harun Mwau lacked merit. More on this: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 Esposito said his party wants NASA to stop calling for demonstrations so that the
country begins healing following the August 8 and October 26 election stalemate. He said Coast region will no longer be an ODM stronghold
after the exit of Raila Odinga. "It is high time Raila retired from politics and accepted losing the election. We know he did not take part in the repeat poll because he (Raila) was broke." "Let him retire and leave younger people to run ODM which we are sure will be over by the time we hold
the next elections," he said.
 Esposito said they fully support the Jubilee Administration. "We are with the government and are happy with president
for retaining his seat. We urge him to continue addressing the issues of Coast," the politician said. He has been pushing for residents to get title deeds for their lands. "The percentage of land ownership in Magarini is still
low at about four to five percent, most people are squatters in their own land,"
he said.
 Also read: Uhuru can't solve Coast land problem, he's part of it - Raila Click here for more political stories          