Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has threatened to sack medical superintendents across the county for lack of drugs and laboratory services. The governor, during an impromptu tour of Murang’a general hospital said he was shocked to find hundreds of patients had been referred to private labs and pharmacies. He said patients complained that the hospital lacked basic drugs like de-wormers and that they were referred to specific pharmacies and labs for tests and medication. Read: Murang'a hospital staff strike citing county government mistreatment “They have told me that they do not have reagents to conduct tests on my stool and referred me to a certain lab in Murang’a town,” one patient said. The hospital’s management was at pains to explain why the hospital did not have drugs and blamed the supplier for the delay. After interrogation, medics also revealed that some of the drugs that patients had been told to buy in private pharmacies had alternatives that were available in the hospital. “I do not understand why patients are being sent outside for basic lab tests and medications. I have seen a case where a patient was charged Sh10,000 for a test in a local lab. This is unacceptable,” Wa Iria said. The governor noted that the county government has set aside Sh700 million for drugs and that there is no excuse for health facilities not to be properly stocked. He threatened to sack medical superintendents of health facilities that will be found without sufficient medications saying they are punishing patients. Wa Iria accused medics of colluding with private labs and pharmacies to get a cut for every patient they refer to them. As a result, he said medics delay procurement of drugs and send patients to the private facilities to make extra money. “This is the corruption of the highest order and will not be tolerated. The next time I get complaints of lack of drugs, they will go home,” the governor said. He also directed that any referral made to a private pharmacy or laboratory has to be signed by the medical superintendents to ensure they take full responsibility for lack of the services. The governor also asked patients to report to his office if they are referred to a private facility for drugs or tests. “Murang’a general hospital has now been elevated to a level five hospital and any referral done should be to a national referral hospital,” Wa Iria added. He said the executive in charge of health will also have his office relocated from the county government offices to the hospital for closer supervision. Also read: Murang’a General Hospital gets Level 5 status, to get Sh250m