The Court of Appeal has overturned a decision that could have seen Members of the County Assembly pocket close to Sh8 billion without toiling for it. In April, High Court judge Edward Muriithi ordered the government to pay MCAs who served in the 2013 /2017 until March 2018 saying the law had discriminated against them. But Justices Philip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and William Ouko on Friday reversed the decision saying it was made through a misinterpretation of the Constitution. The judges held that it will not be justified to only pay MCAs after the August 8 general election when other elected state officers were also affected. In the judgement read on their behalf by Judge Daniel Musinga, the three said the terms of other officers were also altered in the new Constitution. The appellate judges held that the MCAs cannot claim to have been discriminated upon in the state's failure to compensate them for the six months. "The Interpretation was bound to create confusion given that former MCAs and presently elected MCAs will be fighting for remuneration." "Public funds will thus be wasted," the judges said. Justice Muriithi had held that the county lawmakers are entitled to get their full-five years’ salary up to March 2018. It was his view that MCAs will have an unexpired term if they exit on August 8, and the only way to resolve the issue is by paying them and not pushing the election date. According to him, the county lawmakers ought to have left office on March 5, 2018. Read: MCAs to earn salary until March 2018 - Court But his decision did not go down well with the Attorney General Githu Muigai and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The two lodged an appeal soon after the pronouncement. In the appeal, the AG faulted the judge for failing to appreciate that there are other elected state officers including the President, Governors, Senators, woman representatives and MPs who were elected the same day as the MCAs. Through state counsel Jennifer Gitiri, he told court the judge made an error in law by failing to appreciate that Article 194(1) (f) of the Constitution which provides that the office of MCA becomes vacant at the end of the term of the assembly, which is just before the general elections is held. Agreeing with the arguments, the judges of appeal court said: "The award was made in error and thus the appeal is allowed."