Political parties have presented almost the same names of candidates they had previously nominated to EALA. Yesterday was the deadline for wananchi who wish to be nominated by political parties to return their application forms. Independent candidates only need to show up during the interviews. At least 70 applicants had returned their application forms at the close of business yesterday. Read: Shortlisting of EALA MPs to start afresh Last evening Parliament forwarded the list of applicants to the parties. They have today to formally nominate them ahead of interviews, which are likely to start next week when Parliament resumes sittings. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai said the list will be forwarded to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to check the suitability and membership of political parties. Read: Parties to reward election losers with EALA slots According to sources, NASA will retain the initial list of Abubakar Zein, Kennedy Kalonzo, Oburu Odinga and Ronald Ngeny. Those who were shortlisted in the last Parliament by Jubilee include Abubakar Ogle, Adan Noor, Chepkemoi Stacey, Eunice Karanja, Florence Sergon, Irene Masit, Joe Muriuki, former National Assembly clerk Justin Bundi, Justus Mate, Mutea Iringo, Nelson Dzuya, Pius Ewoton and Simon Mbugua. Read: Wiper, ODM resubmit same names for EALA nominees Also read: Storm in NASA as Kalonzo son, Oburu nominated to EALA The new entrants, who will be competing for the nine slots available to Kenya in the Arusha-based regional Parliament, include former MPs Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East), Moses Sakuda (Kajiado West), Ibrahim Saney (Wajir North), Simon Mbugua (Kamukunji), Danson Mungatana (Garsen) and Dorcas Kedogo (Kakamega Woman Representative), former Nandi Woman Rep Zipporah Kering, Mohamed Sheikh Adan (Mandera East) and former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile. Five former EALA MPs have also applied: Abdi Ogle, Joseph Kiangoi, Mumbi Ngaru, Nancy Abisai and Saoli Nkanae.  Yesterday National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said Jubilee Party will ensure gender and regional balance. “JP will be transparent in the process. While other parties will be nominating relatives and friends, our party will be giving a chance to deserving regions, gender and our affiliate parties,” he said. Click here for the latest political news