World 800m record holder has lashed out at athletes tarnishing Kenya’s status in the world as an athletics giant by violating anti-doping rules. Speaking during the Athletics Kenya ‘anti-doping day’ in Kapsabet yesterday, Rudisha said: “I am very worried that some athletes are being cheated into using performance enhancing drugs. We are killing the talent that our fathers and mothers pioneered many years ago by training and running clean,” Rudisha said. Rudisha, who is the Confederation of African Athletics president, said the only people to stop doping in the country are the athletes sincethey who are solely responsible for what they enter their bodies. “If today an athlete says ‘No To Doping’, then we will win the war. It is us athletes who will put an end to it and I want to urge you to compete clean,” Rudisha told the athletes present. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang warned chemists in the town, who may be involved in the selling prohibited substances, that their licenses will be revoked. He said he will work with the AK and Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) to ensure that the doping menace is addressed. “Kenya is endowed with natural talent and we don’t need any boosters. If there are chemists involved in doping then we will not give them licences,” Sang said. Then event started with a breakfast and then a five kilometre march from East View through the streets of Kapsabet and ended at the county sports offices. AK first vice president Paul Mutwii, CEO Susan Kamau, Nandi Deputy Governor Dr. Yulita Mitei and Sports CEC Elly Kurgat were present. Mutwii reiterated that Kenya is still in the World Anti-Doping (WADA) watchlist and risks sanctions should the problem persist. “Athletes should say no to doping because we are killing our future talent,” He said. Top athletes present included former world 800m champions Alfred Kirwa, Janeth Jepkosgei, Eunice Sum, steeplechaser Jairus Birech, double world marathon champion Abel Kirui among many others. Athletics Kenya athlete representative Milcah Chemos said the consequences of abusing drugs in sport will be felt later urging athletes to keep off.      