Trans Nzoia is investigating a suspected case of Marburg virus disease after an herbalist reportedly came into contact with a Ugandan patient. The county has partnered with the Kenya Medical Research Institute. Marburg is a deadly haemorrhagic fever closely related to Ebola and having virtually identical symptoms. County heath officer Norbert Musundi yesterday said they received an alert on Sunday that Fredah Ajwang’, a traditional herbalist in Bwayi, Kwanza subcounty, interacted with a Marburg patient from Uganda. “We have launched an investigation to determine whether the woman also contracted the disease,” he said. He said Kemri’s Nairobi officials visited Ajwang’ yesterday and collected blood samples for testing. Musundi said they are expecting results on Friday. Ajwang’ denied she treated the patient. She said she was sick and not in a position to help. “The patient came to me on Sunday, accompanied by relatives. They said they were from Uganda and needed my services. I didn’t attend to them. I’ve been unwell for a long time,” she said. Two people have died of Marburg in Eastern Uganda in the country’s first outbreak in three years. One of the victims was a hunter. He died on September 26. His 50-year-old sister died on October 11. The first known case of Marburg in Uganda was in 2007. In 2012, an outbreak left 10 people dead. One person died in 2014. Marburg, like Ebola, causes severe bleeding, fever, vomiting and diarrhoea. It has a 21-day incubation period, with a 25 to 80 per cent death rate. Some say 25-50 per cent is more common. The Ebola death rate is about 90 per cent. Both are transmitted through bodily fluids. There is no cure, but patients are kept hydrated and given blood-clotting drugs. Musundi said they have put in place measures to quarantine anyone who may come into contact with Ajwang’. “You know Marburg is transmitted very fast through body contact. We have put our officer to secretly man the place and monitor every visitor at the home. We don’t want to create tension in the area,” Musundi said. They will be monitoring everyone who has interacted with Ajwang’ for 21 days to determine if they show any symptoms. “We have advised Ajwang’ to stay indoors until the medical results are out,” he said. The county has alerted the Immigration officers at Swam border in Endebes subcounty. Officers are screening those entering Kenya. Musundi said they have alerted other counties such as Busia, Bungoma, West Pokot and Turkana. Kitale County Hospital boss Emmanuel Wanjala yesterday said this was the first case to be reported in the county. Residents are being educated about the disease and prevention. Three cases of suspected Marburg fever were recorded around the Mt Elgon region in 1980s.