Kenya Lionesses Janet Okello has been voted the Sports Personality of the Month of September.  The Kenya Commercial Bank winger becomes the third recipient of the StarTimes’ sponsored monthly award. Janet was star performer during the women’s Africa Cup Sevens in Tunisia in September, where the Kenya Lionesses qualified for the 2018 Commonwealth Games for the first time as one of top two ranked African Commonwealth nations. The 25-year-old was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) at women’s Africa Cup Sevens and was the second top try scorer with 7 tries and provided a couple of assists. She was instrumental in Kenya Lionesses qualification despite losing 17-12 to South Africa in the final of the tournament. Lionesses finished second. In the semi-finals, Lionesses beat hosts Tunisia 26-7 to sail into final for the fourth year in a row. Okello was the star performer, scoring two tries and providing an assist in the match. The 25-year-old beat team-mate Sinaida Aura, who was the top try scorer at women’s Africa Cup Sevens, Joyceline Jepkosgei, who broke the World 10km record at the Birell Prague Grand Prix, posting 29:43 for victory. That was Jepkosgei’s fifth world record of the year having broken—10km, 15km, 20km and the half marathon—en-route to her victory at the Prague Half Marathon. Berlin Marathon winner Eliud Kipchoge was on the list too. She received a trophy, 42-inch StarTimes digital television set and Sh100,000. “I am truly honoured to win this award as it is my first ever award on home soil. I am surprised to be the winner as I didn’t ever expect anything like this. This is a good motivator as we prepare for the Commonwealth Games, thank you StarTimes and Sports Journalists Association (SJAK) for standing with sportsmen and women in Kenya. I dedicate this award to the entire Kenya Lionesses team and technical team,” said Okello. “Congratulations Janet Okello having been picked as Kenya’s best for the month of September. She has been outstanding in her exploits and for sure she deserves this special recognition. As a brand, StarTimes will endeavor to encourage our sportsmen and women through these monthly awards as a way of recognizing their dedicated efforts on the field,” noted StarTimes marketing and PR director, Japhet Akhulia.