Jubilee legislators yesterday told the opposition to do the impossible — not to use bills bearing Mzee Jomo Kenyatta's portrait, if they're serious about boycotting products linked to the government. All bills bear the Founding Father's portrait, though this is will change because the law prohibits portraits to avoid hero-worship. Four Jubilee legislators dismissed the opposition’s
National Resistant Movement and its call to boycott goods and services, saying it's not sustainable. xxx The legislators, who separately spoke to the Star on the phone, are included Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga, Member
of Parliament John Muchiri (Manyatta) Cecily Mbarire (nominated),  Jane Wanjuki (Embu woman Member of Parliament).
 The four who were speaking to the Star on phone
separately described the move by NRM to lead a boycott of the products of the giant
mobile Company Safaricom, Cooking oil firm Bidco and Milk products industry
Blookside as absurd. The legislators argued that the boycott which is
being led by the opposition’s chief Raila Odinga won’t last long because he is
being influenced by emotions and greed for power which he is determined to get under
whatever circumstances even if it will hurt the people. Wanjuki said the move will greatly hurt the citizens
and mostly those in the opposition zones since the owners of outlets and shops
selling the products of the companies will close. She said thus the occurrence will greatly affect the
families of the opposition zones but those in the Jubilee zones will continue
benefiting and not suffer like their opposition counterparts. “The move is misguided. I challenge the NRM leaders
and their supporters to first boycott the country’s money and salaries paid
with the Kenya currency since they bear the portrait of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, the
father of President Uhuru Kenyatta, ” quipped Wanjuki. Ndwiga said the NASA leaders are very unpatriotic
arguing that if one is patriotic he or she cannot ask products manufactured by
the countries industries to be boycotted unless he has some mental complications
whatever his or her grievances are. He said the move will adversely affect the economy and
hit all citizens irrespective of whether they belong to  NASA or Jubilee arguing that in the end the
situation will boomerang against Odinga himself. Muchiri said the companies whose products NRM is
leading boycott against have employees who NRM’s supporters are challenging the
opposition leaders to ask the supporters to quit their employment if they are
serious enough with their boycott. He noted that Odinga’s move will not be as simple as
he thinks and that it will not work at all noting that he will regret later
after failing to achieve his selfish goal. “The move is ill advised unfortunate and selfish. They
forget a lot of their supporters depend on these companies through direct or
indirect employment. They will not succeed as Kenyans can see through their
hypocrisy,” said Mbarire. The leaders asked Kenyans in the Jubilee and also in
the opposition zones not to heed the boycott arguing it will affect them direct
and indirectly asking the leaders to come up with better legal and
constitutional means of gaining power. Ends….