An orphan who defied all odds to emerge top in KCPE at Elgeyo Marakwet county is appealing for secondary school fees. Moses Kiptanui, 14, of Liz Academy in Kapcherop, Marakwet West scored 419 marks in the exams whose results were released on Tuesday. He was supported from nursery through standard eight by the school's director Charles Toroitich. Also read: Bomet boy unable to celebrate KCPE results with family Toroitich said the boy was left with his poor mother after the father died. The mother also passed on two years ago. The school director said that together with his wife, they took the boy and enrolled him in nursery school. "The boy has been scoring impressive marks, topping his class since joining the school," Toroitich told The Star on Wednesday. He said they are happy with Kiptanui's excellent performance but cast doubt on whether his family will afford the pupil's secondary school fees. "We took him into our school after his parents died. We paid his school fees, clothes and adopted him as our child," Toroitich said. "We urge well-wishers to help the boy continue with his secondary school education. I have other six children to feed and educate." Also read: Kakamega girl top in KCPE with 455 marks Kiptanui said his parents' death did not deter him from working hard in school. He said he wants to join Starehe Boys Centre after which he intends to pursue an engineering course to help his three sisters. Kiptanui expressed worries about his future after form ones will be selected next month. "I fear that I may not proceed to secondary school due to financial problems. Toroitich and his family have helped me a great deal." "I lack words to express my gratitude for their gesture. They have done a lot and my education future is now bleak," Kiptanui said. Toroitich's wife Margaret, who is a co-director at Liz Academy, said their big challenge is that they have six children in various secondary schools. "Others are in the university. It will be so difficult now that Kiptanui will be joining high school," Margaret said. More on this: Kwale girl 'surprised' after scoring 446 in KCPE Click here for the latest on politics and more