Civil Society groups under Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu yesterday accused the government of planning to muzzle NGOs to silence dissent. “Civil society condemns in the strongest terms possible, this latest round of intimidation against the CSO in general and these three organisations in particular,” Tom Oketch of the Coalition for Constitutional Implementation said. The NGOs Coordination Board executive director, Fazul Mahamed, on Saturday summoned the officials of three institutions and yesterday ordered the KYSY closed. The team, however, declined to link the summonses to Katiba Institute, Muslims for Human Rights and Inuka Kenya Trust for grilling over noncompliance with financial regulations to suspicion of plans to challenge President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory at the October 26 presidential rerun. Yesterday, Mahamed wrote to the KYSY to cease operations immediately. He said the KYSY has been undertaking activities of an NGO without registering, hence violating the NGOs Regulations Act. He said KYSY received Sh36 million from the George Saros Foundation and is under investigations for that. “Both Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu and We The People have subsequently opened and are operating illegal accounts with the NIC Bank and Citi Bank in contravention of of the Act,” Mahamed said. He directed KYSY and We The People to cease all political operations in Kenya, including all election-related programmes and desist from any engagements with legally registered charitable organisations. But Oketch said the actions were expected and there are plans to target, intimidate and subvert the work of CSOs in the coming days and weeks. He said the summonses are a part of a larger scheme to intimidate institutions that have dared to dissent or contradict the government position. “It’s not by coincidence that the NGOs Board has decided to come after these organisations at this time. All the three have been instrumental in documenting and calling for free, fair, and credible elections in the 2017 election cycle,” Oketch said. The organisations have been involved in litigation and advocacy around elections issues, he added. 