The murder of Nyandarua North MP JM Kariuki in 1975 left Kenyans in deep shock. Government complicity was suspected on account of false propaganda regarding his whereabouts, which left Vice President and Minister for Home Affairs Daniel arap Moi with egg on his face after his story that JM was alive and well on a business trip to Zambia fell apart. The badly decomposed body of the MP was dramatically discovered by Maasai herdsman ole Tunda at Luchubo Manyatta in the Ngong area in the current Kajiado county. Moi broke down in tears upon this revelation and claimed to have been misinformed by other parties (still undisclosed) within the government. The funeral was given a wide berth by Jomo Kenyatta loyalists who feared running afoul of those in power. A select few, however, threw caution to the winds and attended the funeral. Amongst these were Mwai Kibaki, Martin Shikuku, Waruru Kanja, Elijah Mwangale, Mark Mwithaga and Maina Wanjigi. Hostile mourners booed Central PC Simeon Nyachae and prevented him from reading the President’ condolence speech. A parliamentary committee found Kenyatta’s bodyguard Wanyoike Thung’u, GSU commandant Ben Gethi and Minister in the Office of the President Mbiyu Koinange culpable of the murder and cover-up in collusion with then Police Commissioner Bernard Hinga, SSP Sokhi Singh, CID boss Ignatius Nderi, Police Reservist Patrick Shaw and NYS director Waruhiu Itote, all now deceased. The funeral turned chaotic as government operatives were forcibly evicted with several speakers describing the then government as a “government of gangsters!” The then Kajiado North MP John Keen observed that, “The hyenas have eaten one of their own!” Recent events in Kenya indicate that we are proceeding on a very dangerous trajectory. Two MPs Robert Mbui (Kathiani) and Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) are now nursing serious injuries in hospital, one a broken leg and the other a gunshot injury, all from state-sponsored thuggery. Scores of citizens have been murdered in cold blood by security operatives. Their sin is taking part in demonstrations/picketing and/or welcoming Raila Odinga back to Kenya after a foreign tour. Raila himself survived by a whisker after a missile was directed at his bulletproof vehicle. Images of police hurling stones and shooting Kenyans indiscriminately are revolting. If memory serves me, welcoming leaders is a time-honoured tradition in Kenya. Many of us recall massive crowds welcoming former presidential candidate Kenneth Matiba, President(s) Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto returning from The Hague. So what’s the beef about Raila’s homecoming? Demonstrations and picketing are rights enshrined in the Constitution. Why then is government perpetrating criminal action, or is it also a government of gangsters? The behaviour of the Kenya Police and whoever is instructing them, namely Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, has displayed wilful ineptitude and incompetence. The wholesale gangsterism with which the police dealt with demonstrators is uncalled for, uncivilised, uncouth and extremely stupid. Their only defensible action would have been denying them entry into the JKIA perimeter and apron. Thereafter Raila and his welcome crowd should have been granted safe passage through the City of Nairobi. There was no logical or cogent reason for denying the convoy entrance into parts of the city. This single action triggered the violent reaction from demonstrators.  That Jubilee leaders turned Governor Wahome Gakuru’s funeral at Kagumo into a Raila-bashing session is equally juvenile. Surely these men and women, many claiming impeccable academic credentials, understand the simple rules of “cause and effect”! The role of the police was to maintain peace, law and order during the demonstrations and not beat the living daylights out of protesters.  Violence is more often than not met with violence! Government leaders will not succeed in attempts at divorcing themselves from the actions of the police by passing the buck to NASA. Who is fooling whom?