In the annals of missed stories, it ranks up there. When Wednesday's edition of The Herald, Zimbabwe's main state newspaper, hit the streets, Zimbabweans were surprised to learn that talk of ructions between President Robert Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party and military chief Constantino Chiwenga were unfounded. "ZANU-PF unfazed by Chiwenga," the Herald declared on its front page, reporting on the party's denunciation of the military chief as a traitor the previous day. Most people in Harare had spent the night glued to social media and the Internet for updates on a coup slowly unfolding against 93-year-old Mugabe, Zimbabwe's leader of the last 37 years. Just after 4 am, an army spokesman in camouflage fatigues appeared on state media to announce that the army had seized power. The final line of his declaration: "To the media, we urge you report fairly and responsibly". The Zimbabwean military is in charge of a paramilitary police support unit depot in Harare and has disarmed police officers there, an army source told Reuters. "They are now in charge of all armoury, all gates and roads leading in or out of the camp. Arcturus Road (which leads to the camp) is closed and all Support Unit details with guns have been disarmed,” the source said. South Africa's President Jacob Zuma spoke to Zimbabwean Mugabe on Wednesday, and Mugabe told him he was confined to his home but that he was fine, the South African presidency said in a statement. The presidency added that Zuma, in his capacity as chair of the Southern African Development Community, was sending special envoys to Zimbabwe to meet with Mugabe and the Zimbabwean Defence Force, which has seized power in Harare. Britain said on Wednesday that the situation in Zimbabwe was fluid and that it was hard to say how it would turn out, appealing for all sides in the former British colony to refrain from violence. Zimbabwe's military seized power early on Wednesday targeting "criminals" around Mugabe but gave assurances on national television that the leader and his family were "safe and sound". "It's very fluid and it's hard to say exactly how this will turn out," British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said.  "The most important point to make is that everybody wants to see a stable and successful Zimbabwe and I think we are really appealing for everybody to refrain from violence." 