When former US President Barack Obama overwhelmingly won the presidency in 2008, a significant segment of the population never came to terms with the fact that a Black man was elected President. So much that there was a concerted effort by racists to delegitimise Obama’s presidency by falsely claiming he was not qualified to run for President because he was “born in Kenya,” a charge that was proven false over and over. The person who took charge and claimed title as the leader of what came to be referred to as the “Birther Movement” was none other than the current President Donald J Trump, who became somewhat of an annoying fixture in US media, demanding to see Obama’s birth certificate. But even after Obama produced it, Trump and his racist followers refused to accept it and continued to claim Obama was a Kenyan, all in efforts to delegitimise his presidency. To their chagrin, Obama went on to not only have a successful first term but also got reelected and served with distinction, notwithstanding stiff opposition from many on the right, mostly racists, who never wanted to see him succeed. The irony is, when Trump shocked the world by being elected against all odds, he did so by winning the Electoral College votes — not the popular vote — setting him to be an illegitimate President in the eyes of those who see him as an oddity. Indeed, a case can be made that Trump is such a joker president, hardly anyone other than his cult-like followers, about 35 per cent of the country, accept him as a legitimate president. Everyone else either puts bags over their heads in accepting he is their president because of party affiliation or they simply dismiss him as a moron — as his own secretary of state was reported to have described him, which he did not deny. Uhuru Kenyatta faces the same challenge, as he gets ready to be sworn in as President for his second term. His nemesis, opposition leader and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and other NASA leaders have promised their followers and the country their task now is to make life hell for Uhuru and his Jubilee government: “We will not allow two megalomaniacs to destroy the dream of freedom and democracy that generations have sacrificed and worked so hard for,” Raila declared, adding, “If there’s no justice for the people, let there be no peace for the government.” Uhuru and William Ruto, for their part, have no doubt plans to counter Raila and NASA such that what we have lying in wait ahead is the battle of Raila and NASA on one hand doing everything they can to delegitimise Uhuru’s government and make it impossible for him to govern the country in the hopes that combination will force UhuRuto out of power, much as happened in Egypt a few years ago. On the other hand, Uhuru and Jubilee will no doubt use the state machine to hold on to power, while deploying every combination of other tools available to them, including use of force, threats and coercion, to whip into submission those in the opposition, either wavering or just not as enthused or fanatic enough to remain with Raila through this last battle of electoral malfeasance. The loser in this battle will be Kenyans, as individuals, and Kenya as a country. It need not be the case. Because of Raila’s boycott of the election, he lost what leverage he had to either take the presidency or force Uhuru’s hand into some sensible resolution of this impasse. That being the case, Uhuru has the upper hand now but he would be wise to employ statesman-like tactics that unite, not further divide the country, as he faces the onslaught from Raila and NASA.