Police have refuted IMLU's report that 36 people died between August and October in disputes concerning the repeat presidential election. The Independent Medico-Legal Unit said on Wednesday that officers killed at least this number of Kenyans in cases of brutality. Executive director Peter Kiama said there was no clear demonstration that they shot to defend themselves or others. More on this: Police killed over 36 during August, October polls - IMLU But in a statement on Thursday, police spokesman George Kinoti said: "We were never consulted prior to the publication of this malicious, sensational and misleading report." Kinoti said they recorded 19 deaths and asked the organisation to be fair, just and impartial. "We condemn sensational reporting based on falsified figures clearly aimed at tainting the image of the police service," he said. The spokesman said 11 deaths were recorded between August 8 and 11 and eight between October 25 and 30. Kinoti said some some of the deaths occurred in Tana River after two men stormed a tallying centres and stabbed an IEBC official. "Officers who came to rescue the officials shot dead the two attackers." He said the other deaths were in Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya, Nairobi and Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma and Kericho counties. "Inquest files were opened in respect of each case to inquire into the cause of death as required by the law," KInoti said. The official added the internal affairs department and IPOA are investigating the alleged use of excessive force in quelling violent riots and that the outcome will be made public. IMLU's preliminary report stated 23 police killings followed the August election and that there were 13 in October. Postmortems were carried out on 12 bodies upon consent by families, the organisation reported. Select postmoterm reports show one victim was shot multiple times in the chest and another twice in the upper back. In the latter case, there were two exit wounds parallel to each other mid upper chest. Supporters of NASA staged anti-IEBC protests in Nairobi, Bungoma and in Nyanza region against IEBC's decision for the re-run to take place on October 26. IG Joseph Boinnet earlier denied reports of use of excessive force, saying police were restoring calm after violent demonstrations. Police also denied Amnesty International's report that at least 33 people were killed in protests after the original August 8 vote. Read: Boinnet denies use of excessive force to disperse Raila supporters On Monday, the US government called for speedy investigations into allegations that police officers used excessive force when quelling anti-poll protests last week. More on this: Probe claims of police brutality on protesters, US tells Kenya