Former Nairobi county assembly speaker Alex Magelo
has called on the members of the Maasai community shun leaders who are out to divide them.
 Magelo castigated those who have been attempting
to incite the community against others since the Supreme Court upheld President
Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election last Monday. "We are warriors but our bravery and prowess are
meaningless if we don't employ it to protect our home, our
community first," he said. "This means standing up against anyone inciting any
form of violence or retaliation against our own people, others living within
our community or our neighbours." In a statement on Friday, Magelo asked the community
to be law abiding and accept the ruling of the apex court. "We will not tolerate this type of divisive rhetoric
because it is now time for reconciliation, healing and forward progress," he
added. This followed the incident where some members of the Maa community, led
by Narok senator Ledama ole Kina, demonstrated in Nairobi on Wednesday. The group was dispersed by anti-riot police as they were marching to IG Joseph Boinnet's office
to protest the killing of over 300 cows in
Laikipia last month. The animals were killed when the police, who put the number at 75, engaged
bandits who were grazing in private ranches in the region. Read: Only 75 cattle killed in Laikipia crossfire – officer Also read: Expiring land leases fueling Laikipia clashes, Samburu leaders say But Magelo pleaded with the leaders from the community,
irrespective of their political affiliations, to accept the court's decision and
preach peace and unity. The former speaker congratulated the Uhuru and Deputy President
William Ruto on their victory and pledged his and the community's support. The two will be sworn-in on Tuesday in a ceremony scheduled to take place at the Kasarani stadium. More on this: Uhuru inauguration will cost Sh300m, no amount wasted - Joseph Kinyua Opposition boycotted the October 26 repeat
election and has vowed not recognise Uhuru as President, despite Supreme Court
confirming his election. NASA has organised a parallel rally at Uhuru Park on
Tuesday despite its leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka having been
invited to the inauguration ceremony. Click here for the latest political news  