The North Rift governors have agreed to jointly support construction of a Sh200 billion industrial park at Plateau in Uasin Gishu. The governors said the African Economic Zone Pearl River Industrial Park project would create more than 500,000 jobs. North Rift Economic Bloc chairman Jackson Mandago, who is also Uasin Gishu governor, his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet said they would work closely with the investors. The project was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta early this year. Noreb is an economic bloc that also includes West Pokot, Samburu, Baringo, Turkana and Trans Nzoia. The county chiefs spoke during a dinner for Chinese investors in Uasin Gishu. Mandago and Sang said the region has raw materials and ready market for products that will be manufactured at the industrial park.  “North Rift is the best region to invest in because it has all the requirements, including manpower and market,” Tolgos  said. He said the region has favourable climate, infrastructure and resources. Mandago said, “It will be the single largest industrial park in the country. We foresee major benefits that will open up the entire region for other investment opportunities in sectors like tourism.” The governors said they have goodwill from the national government and support for the project.  Sang said the investments would open up key sectors for expansion. “We have agreed to partner as counties under Noreb to ensure the industrial park succeeds and benefits the more than 10 million people in our region,” he said.  Tolgos said the project will address unemployment problems. “The project will create jobs for our people, both directly and indirectly. We have adequate raw materials, especially from agriculture,” he said. Businessman David Lagat said support from the local and national partners will play a critical role in the success of the project. In August, the governors in the North Rift have planned to activate the North Rift Economic Bloc and implement key joint projects valued at more than Sh300 billion.  The joint projects are in agriculture, water, energy and infrastructure. The governors and other elected leaders will discuss peace and security in Kerio Valley to facilitate development programmes. In 2015, the North Rift Economic Bloc started exporting fresh produce, the chairman said. Mandago said the bloc will fight poverty and economically empower more than 15 million people. The counties produce 30 per cent of the flowers exported from Kenya. Mandago said they will work towards increasing production of horticultural crops for export. “The bloc is a very viable plan, which we believe will help us benefit from economies of scale in both production and marketing of agricultural produce,” he said. “We plan to have two or three cargo planes operating at the Eldoret Airport weekly. We can only do this if we come together and ensure our farmers produce the quantity required.” The bloc held its first investor conference in Eldoret town between November 18 and 21, officially opened by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The counties endorsed a new plan for expansion and improvement of business at the Eldoret International Airport to boost investments. Under the North Rift Economic Bloc, the airport was earmarked as an important part of Noreb’s investor-focused blueprint for regional development. Governors from the counties which form Noreb said they support plans by the Kenya Airports Authority to improve the capacity of the airport to attract new investors.