A
major showdown looms tomorrow between the opposition NASA and the police over a
planned parallel prayer event to President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing-in. The
police yesterday vowed that they will not allow the rally to go on, a situation
that is likely to be a replica of the recent running battles between NASA
supporters welcoming their leader Raila Odinga at the airport from his US visit
and the police, after warning the opposition against holding the procession. NASA
has announced it will hold a memorial prayer rally for victims of police
brutality in Jacaranda Grounds, Embakasi East constituency, while
President-elect Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto will be sworn in at the Kasarani
Stadium. Read: Go to Jacaranda at your own risk, Koome warns, says NASA lying The
opposition's plan to hold rallies or processions in Nairobi has on several
occasions seen them lock horns with the police either restricting them from
accessing particular places or banning the events on alleged NASA failure to
notify the cops as per the law. Nairobi
Police Commander Japheth Koome has said several city roads to be used by
high-profile guests attending the Kasarani Inauguration will be under tight
security by a multi-agency operation. Military
and General Service Unit officers will man Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway, Museum
Hill and the Aga Khan Hospital areas, Wangari Maathai Road and the Thika
Superhighway to avert any security threat on visitors and citizens. The
Kenya Red Cross Society will also be on standby in the multi-agency police
operation of securing the roads. NASA
on Saturday notified the police about its Jacaranda Grounds function, but Koome,
who spoke to Star on the phone yesterday, said the venue would be a no-go zone,
while insisting that the coalition has not notified the area OCS. NASA's
lawyer Edwin Sifuna wrote to the Embakasi Station OCS James Ekwenye and copied
the notification letter to Koome. “Our
clients shall hold a memorial on Tuesday 28th November 2017 at
Jacaranda Grounds within Nairobi County for the 25 innocent Kenyans who met
their untimely deaths at the hands of police and regime sponsored killer gangs
in the past few weeks,” reads the letter. “You
are hereby notified of the same and requested to provide security during the
said memorial to ensure the safety of all those who will attend and the public
in general.” NASA
warns the police against attempting to disrupt the meeting by applying force
and brutality. “The
coalition shall hold you and your officers personally responsible for any harm
that shall come to any of its supporters or attendees during the memorial,” the
letter reads. [VIDEO] Tear gas, gunshots as NASA supporters wait for Raila outside JKIA Koome
dismissed the letter, saying the planned prayer event is illegal. He holds that
NASA notified the wrong area police boss instead of notifying the Soweto
Station OCS, under whose jurisdiction Jacaranda Grounds falls. “Babu
Owino is the area MP and he must be very well aware that this area is in
Soweto. They should stop lying to Kenyans that they have notified the police.
Anyone going there will be doing so at their own risk,” Koome said. Inspector
General of Police Joseph Boinnet refused to speak on NASA's planned rally and
instead told a Star reporter to seek comments from Koome. “The
law says anyone planning to hold any procession, public meeting or
demonstration should notify the OCS of the area at least 24 hours before the
scheduled time for the event,” Koome said. He
warned that police will quell any attempt by NASA to proceed with the event
because it will be violating the rule of law and public order. NASA
chief executive officer Norman Magaya, however, indicted Koome for plotting to disrupt
the meeting and insisted that they are done with notifying the police. “Koome
is just playing games. If he wants to break up the meeting, it is fine let's
meet there and break it up. We have been compiling a long list of people who
are being killed on his orders,” Magaya said. He
added,“The international crimes against humanity are applicable in this country
and we are going to sue no other person other than Japheth Koome himself.” Read: Koome names red zones, talks tough on security for Uhuru swearing-in Raila,
his NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi and opposition lawmakers on Saturday
during a Maanzoni Lodge leadership forum in Machakos County vehemently
denounced Uhuru’s presidency. The
leaders maintained that together with their supporters, they did not
“individually or collectively” delegate their sovereignty to Uhuru as Kenya's
head of state and government. As
of last evening, the State was still tight-lipped on the list of heads of
states and governments who will attend President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta’s
swearing-in ceremony. Only
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President John Magufuli of
Tanzania are reported  to have confirmed that they will attend the
ceremony. The
Times of Israel newspaper reported on Wednesday last week that Netanyahu will
fly in tomorrow morning and leave after the ceremony, which, according to
multiple sources, is expected to be attended by over 20 heads of state and
governments. Unlike
in 2013, where there was a power handover from then President Kibaki to President-elect
Uhuru, this time round there is no such colour. Sources
in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency told the Star yesterday
that a number of Presidents from the African Union would attend. “The
dignitaries who have confirmed they will attend remain a guarded secret maybe
for security reasons, but what I know is that a number of leaders from AU
nations, and more so East Africa, will be present,” a senior official in the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs told the Star. Tomorrow,
Uhuru will be the last dignitary to arrive at the 60,000-seater
International Sports Centre  Kasarani, for  the swearing-in ceremony
that the law decrees must take place in broad daylight, between 10am and 2pm. But
before the main event, there will be prayers from the different religions. Read: UhuRuto preach unity, say swearing-in a celebration of diversity Uhuru
will, during the swearing-in ceremony, take and subscribe to the oath or
affirmation of allegiance and the oath or affirmation for the execution of the
functions of the President. Chief
Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi will administer the oaths, witnessed
by Chief Justice David Maraga, or, in the absence of the CJ, in the presence of
Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Yesterday
Uhuru and Ruto urged politicians to use the country’s diversity for the
national good instead of abusing it for personal gain. Speaking when they attended a thanksgiving Sunday
service at the Redeemed Gospel Church in Huruma, Nairobi, Uhuru said hat the
celebrations at Kasarani will not be about him and winning an election but
Kenyans celebrating their diversity, peace and unity. The President pointed out that,
Kenya being a democracy, it is normal to compete for political positions but
the competition should not be based on ethnicity, race or tribe but ideas that
will lift the lives of Kenyans.  The President added, “Within
the political world, it is normal to have political differences but that does
not mean we can’t co-exist and live together in peace". DP Ruto
said, “Today, let us all resolve that we
will refuse hate, resist negative ethnicity and reject divisive politics so
that we can live together as one people – the people of the great nation of
Kenya”. Click here for the latest political news                  