Gilbert Deya and his wife Mary are not the biological parents of two children they are accused of stealing, documents presented to court yesterday show. Prosecution witness Juma Amimo Tom told Milimani Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi that the children belong to Mary Anyango Mbeyo. He presented their birth registration details. The name of the father is not indicated. Amimo is also one of the investigation officers in the case. "The second registration book does not have any name of any child but it has the name of the accused Gilbert Deya in it," Amimo said. He took the court through several registration documents for eight children found in Deya's house in Mountain View in 2014. he said that DNA results from the Government Chemist revealed that Deya and his wife are not the biological parents of five of the eight children found in their house. Only two were found to be their children while the other one is a relative. "According to this report in court, Gilbert Deya and Mary Juma are excluded as possible biological parents of the alleged five children," Amimo said. Amimo said that Mary Deya was arrested on August 8, 2004 alongside two other women and escorted to a doctor to have their blood samples taken.  Amimo told the court that Deya's wife claimed she was the mother of seven of the children. He said Deya was not in the country when the DNA tests were conducted in 2004 yet his blood samples were also required. They then sought help from the Metropolitan Police Service in the UK for an international arrest warrant. He said UK officers sent Deya's DNA samples to Serious Crime Unit at the DCI headquarters in April 2005. Amimo told the court that the five children are still under the protection of the children assistance programme pending the determination of the case. Deya is accused of stealing five children, all under the age of 14. He has denied the charges. He is being held at the Kamiti Maximun Security remand after being denied bond. His wife was jailed for three years after being found guilty of similar offences following her arrest in 2005. Amino was testifying in a case where preacher is accused of stealing five children all under the age of 14 years. He has since denied the charges and his is being held at Kamiti Maximum prison pending the hearing and determination of the case after the court denied him bond. The charge sheet shows that the offences were committed in 2004 at a house in Mountain View estate, Nairobi where police found five Deya miracle children allegedly stolen from unknown parents. Archbishop Deya, known for his miracle babies scandal, was deported from UK and arrived in Kenya in early August 2017 to face the child theft charges after he fled to London where he has been battling extradition proceedings with the UK government for the last 12 years. Earlier his wife Mary Deya, was charged with similar offences in 2005 and was found guilty and jailed for three years. Amimo also informed the court that two Metropolitan Police officers from UK namely detective Sergeant Stephen Ward and David leader who were involved in the investigations locally and international are expected to testify in the case. The witness was stood down until November 6.      