The thought of writing this article came to me as I was writing notes for a paper on Hong Kong.  It is principally about the role of the Court of Final Appeal (CFA, equal to our Supreme Court) in maintaining the Rule of Law — in substantial part as protection against undue interference by the Chinese government. Of all the institutions in Hong Kong that Britain and China agreed on, before Hong Kong returned to China 20 years ago, the judiciary was critical. China agreed that for at least 50 years after sovereignty over Hong Kong passes from Britain to China, Hong Kong courts, in the common law tradition of complete independence and with the final word on the interpretation of the law, would continue to function as before. In order to enhance both the quality and integrity of the CFA, Hong Kong’s constitution provides that at least one leading judge from common law countries must be its member. This has brought to the CFA some of the brightest and most distinguished judges (to a bench already of high calibre). The CFA has given some excellent decisions, which are quoted in the common law world now. However, the Rule of Law is under threat because China insists that Hong Kong passes legislation making criminal, among other things, “any act of treason, secession, sedition, subversion against the Central People’s Government or theft of state secrets”. This insistence followed the occupation of the central area of Hong Kong by thousands of people in protest against Chinese policies, which lasted 79 days, earlier this year. Various people who took an active part in the occupation were sentenced to imprisonment. Hong Kong court decisions can be reviewed by a committee of the Chinese legislature, so that if a Hong Kong court made a decision that China did not like, it could be overruled — as happened soon after China took over.  China has interfered with court decisions only on few occasions (though significant), but without clear legal reasoning. Under the new Chinese President, China has shown its intention to play a more active role in Hong Kong affairs. And it seems as if Hong Kong courts are becoming less protective of its interests — to keep China at bay?  In Kenya, of course, neither the Executive nor the Legislature can review judicial decisions — but they can intimidate, or at least threaten, the judges, as both have done (“I will deal with the court,” said the President, while Aden Duale has said “I would also want to remind the Chief Justice that any citizen can petition the Judicial Service Commission for his removal”). I was so inspired by Hong Kong’s record of overseas judges, that I proposed that our own Constitution should remove the requirement that judges must be Kenyans, in the hope that we might attract some outstanding lawyers/judges from a common law country. This is indeed the law now but the application of the only overseas judge who applied, several years ago, was sabotaged by someone in the JSC. The only instance since then has been an application last year for the Chief Justice post, by a US lawyer.    BACK TO KENYA The Judiciary under our Constitution has a major responsibility for its protection and development: “the purpose and principles of this Constitution shall be protected and promoted” (Article 159 (e)) — unlike the days of Presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi who used the Judiciary to undermine people’s rights and the Constitution more generally. Every person now has access to the courts; that access is particularly easy when a human right is concerned. The Judiciary is instructed that in interpreting the Constitution it must promote its purposes, values and principles; advance the rule of law, and human rights and fundamental freedoms; and permits the development of the law and contributes to good governance (Article 259 ).  Courts must ensure justice is done to all (it does not matter how rich or politically important); it must not be delayed; and it must be delivered without “undue regard to procedural technicalities”. Courts can examine the policies and acts of the Executive and the Legislature —regardless of the “separation of powers”.  Given this broad framework, it would appear that the Judiciary must be politically neutral, must not mechanically reject evidence because of delay in submitting it, and must be guided by the purpose and principles of the Constitution, and, presumably, in the case of elections, all the requirements of the chapter dealing with elections (Chapter 7 ). These include the requirements for the registration of political parties (but not if they are based on religion, region, or ethnicity) and their conduct in elections (including prohibitions on appeals to ethnicity or religion, violence or bribes, hate speech and use of public resources). This issue has never been raised in courts —such is mutual respect among parties! It is obvious that courts must not always stick to the letter of the law or hesitate to adopt interpretations that come closer to constitutional principles. This is particularly the case with the Supreme Court — where the buck stops. There is, therefore, an element of politics (broadly defined) in the judicial function. It was reported that Waikwa Wanyoike in his submission to the Supreme Court said that the political environment was crude, arising from a deeply polarised country and it was obvious the court was going to reject the call to intervene in what had ceased to be a legal problem, and was now a political problem. I would put it as follows: “It remained a legal problem but has to be solved in a way that best meets the objectives of the Constitution, in particular objectives related to values and restrictions prescribed by it”.  There is of course a big difference between a political approach driven by principles prescribed in the Constitution and that driven by expediency.  The former Chief Justice, Willy Mutunga, recently outlined his views on the role of the Judiciary under a transformative constitution, like ours, in a lecture at Makerere University. He said, “I believe progressive forces in the Judiciary can use the Constitution and law in moving society towards fundamental transformation….The 2010 Constitution is exactly activist by origin, design, text and intent. It has almost eliminated or blurred the traditional activist-judicial restraint divide. That is why it commands the courts in Article 159 ( 2 ) to exercise judicial authority (which Article 159 ( 1 ) decrees is derived from the Kenyan people) guided by the ‘purpose and principles of this Constitution….That comforting illusion of the common law that judges do not make law has been rightly decolonized by the 2010 Constitution…This theory, derived from the provisions of the Constitution and the Supreme Court Act, 2011, denies resort by judicial officers to the common law canons of interpreting statutes and constitutions that allow judicial officers, in so doing, to routinely reflect their intellectual, ideological, political, social, and cultural biases. Judicial officers are decreed to do the politics of the Constitution and not their own, as allowed by common law jurisdictions. In my view, therefore, the Constitution seeks to rescue the retrogressive judges from their politics while reinforcing the politics of the progressive judges”. It is not my intentions to decide whether the Supreme Court made the right decision, in accordance with the Mutunga approach. The Court has yet to give its reasons why it chose the option it did. From the reasons it gave, it seems as if it was rather formalistic, unlike the majority in the previous presidential decision. However, it would be wrong of me to decide without the full text of the judgment.                                           