The Supreme Court, of course, has the responsibility of ensuring that our government never oversteps its proper bounds or violates the rights of individuals. But the court must also recognise the limits on itself and respect the choices made by the American people. — Elena Kagan As a country that is at a crossroads caused by a decision of our own Supreme Court, this principle must be a guiding factor. In its wisdom, the court ruled the August 8 presidential election was null and void, and ordered a repeat. The election rerun is now over. The opposition has shown it is not interested in a free and fair election and has caused violence and destruction, and made never-ending innuendos, all in the name of taking power by all means. It is evidently clear that an election petition will be brought before the judges again before the 14-day window lapses. When the petition comes to the court, we hope the judges will do the right thing this time. The court has the chance to heal the country, promote peace and ensure Kenya moves forward. The Supreme Court must be part and parcel of this process and should not nullify the election results again based on technicalities. Chief Justice David Maraga must lead his bench in realising that the opposition believes it has the mandate to cause destruction because of the Supreme Court verdict. It is only they who can reverse this by strictly adhering to the law and ensuring the country moves forward. The country will not recover from another 60 days of political suspense arising from an ill-thought-out decision. The last 60 days have left Kenyans more divided, property destroyed and we have had near-miss constitutional crises numerous times. Inasmuch as this has strengthened us as a country, it has also divided us along tribal lines. In fact, last week’s announcement by Raila Odinga that he is now a rebel leader and will lead a resistance movement shows how the decision by the Supreme Court has been perceived by the opposition. It is, therefore, in the greater interest of the country that the court rises above this and puts Kenya back on track. The judges must show the country they can offer leadership in an impartial manner by putting the country first. Failing which, history will remember the Supreme Court as one that made a historic ruling that drove this country to destruction and despair. This will be its legacy and I believe none of the judges want this to be their mark in history. The Supreme Court judges cannot operate as if they do not live in this country, and do not see how much we have lost from that first decision. In fact, the business community estimates that our economy has lost up to Sh700 billion in the last three months of uncertainty. While the Judiciary is guided by the strict adherence to the law and the Constitution, it must also be guided by the public interest. The public good must at time, override the legal framework, when the interests of the nation are threatened. It is, therefore, our hope that the court will not make another decision that only works to drive our country backwards. It should ensure it is part and parcel of the agenda of unity and prosperity.   The writer is a political and communications consultant