It is distressful to see Rachel Muthoni's three-year-old granddaughter writhe in pain and cry because of an infestation by jiggers. The girl from Mahuria village in Kandara, Murang'a county, struggles to walk and sleep. Muthoni, who also suffers an infestation, takes care of the child as her mother Catherine Njoki died in April.  The family, that also includes the girl's three sisters and a brother, has been depending on well-wishers and neighbours for food and clothes. Muthoni told The star on Wednesday that her granddaughter sleeps for less than 10 minutes a day due to pain. The jiggers are in her feet, hands and knees. "She is always in tears, scratching her entire body because of the jiggers. I have tried to find a solution to this menace to no avail...I am also affected. Only God can save us," she said amid sobs.  The jigger-infested foot of a three-year-old girl from Mahuria village in Kandara, Murang'a county, November 1, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU Muthoni said life has "thrown" her grandchild "the worst". "She lost her mother and is now suffering greatly because of the jiggers." The girl's elder brother, a nine-year-old pupil of Mahuria Primary School, also has jiggers and treks to school for two hours, a distance of about 25 minutes by vehicle. "He is supposed to be in standard five but the parasites have slowed him down. He cannot wear shoes or walk on grass," Muthoni said.  Grandmother Rachel Muthoni speaks at her home in Mahuria village in Kandara, Murang'a county, November 1, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU The grandmother, whose housing conditions are deplorable, added that she suffers memory loss and does not know how old she is. She pleaded with local leaders such as Kandara MP Alice Wahome, woman representative Sabina Chege and Governor Mwangi Wa Iria for help. “She is suffering yet her diet is not healthy. I cry out to our leaders and well-wishers to help us. All I want is for my grandchildren to get well because they have a future,” she said. Muthoni said she will be happy only when all her grandchildren are given clean bills of health and go to school without struggling. "I hope they get help so she can start schooling like other kids."  The jigger-infested feet of a three-year-old girl from Mahuria village in Kandara, Murang'a county, November 1, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU Lucy Githaiga, a neighbour, said she had been seeking help for the family and that some Red Cross members fumigated their house on Tuesday. "We have also been providing food and cleaning their clothes and house but it seems the infestation is beyond our control. I call upon people of goodwill to chip in and save this family." Githaiga also pleaded with anti-jigger campaigners Ahadi Kenya Trust - led by Dr Stanley Kamau - for help.  