Kenya’s local insurers are upbeat about increasing their penetration to 6 per cent from the current 2.75 per cent in the next three years. This is in an effort to match the current world average of 6.28 per cent. On Thursday, the Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya (AIBK) chairperson, Nelson Omolo, said they are looking forward to deepening their penetration through collaboration with other stakeholders. “We are looking to tap into additional opportunities for the insurance business in areas such as micro insurance, oil and gas, real estate, terrorism and political risk and agriculture,” he said. He was speaking during the 12th AIBK Conference held in Diani in Kwale county. Kenya has leveraged mobile technology leading to an increase in financial inclusion from 26 per cent in 2006 to about 75 per cent currently, according to the National Treasury. Therefore, Omolo said, the insurance industry has to be innovative to tap into this newly acquired market by applying more innovation and digitisation in their products range and services. Insurance Regulatory Authority acting chief executive Godfrey Kiptum said Kenya’s insurance sector is ranked fourth in Africa. “We are looking to scale the ladder by doubling our insurance premiums which will largely be attributable to premium growth from the micro-insurance segment,” said Kiptum. Jubilee Insurance chief executive Patrick Tumbo said as the largest medical insurer, they have partnered with pharmacies and directly certify them to make medication more affordable. “This move has allowed our clients access to more affordable options for their medication, especially those in the low-income bracket,” said Tumbo. Maritime Principal Secretary Nancy Karigithu said the industry has witnessed growth in marine cargo insurance since the start of implementation of the amendment to the Insurance Act. Most recent data show that marine cargo insurance policies have enjoyed 66 per cent growth over the last nine months, compared to the same period last year. “Though we had anticipated much higher growth following the implementation of Section 20 of the Insurance Act, it was noted that by the very nature of marine business, premiums relating to most importations in the current year had been recorded in the previous year,” said Karigithu. “We are therefore hopeful that the remainder of the year will see higher premium volumes recorded.” This year’s theme of the conference was, ‘Harnessing the Future of Insurance’.  