A police officer charged with murdering a man during an operation at Githurai 45 in 2013 is seeking acquittal. Titus Musila, alias Katitu, asked trial judge James Wakiaga to clear him of the charge following the killing of Kenneth Mwangi. The officer shot into the limelight after residents, in support of the operation to wipe out criminals in the area, blocked Thika Superhighway for a week in protests following his arrest.   He asked the court to acquit him on Monday saying he did nothing
wrong. Read: State closes case involving policeman in Githurai murders On October 4, the judge ruled that the prosecution made a case based on the first impression against the police officer. Katitu, a popular former crime-buster, said the state has failed to prove he killed Mwangi. He urged the judge to find that he had nothing to do with the killing as the bullet did not come from his gun. Telling his side of the story, the former officer said he was posted in the area 10 years before the incident at a time when "shoes were being sold while still on the owners’ feet". Katitu also revealed that he belonged to 'SPIV', a squad that had been formed to fight crime in Githurai, following complaints from members of the public.  On the material day, he said he only intervened in a robbery incident as he had done on many occasions. He said he was on patrol with two constables when they received a distress call. "As we were approaching the bus station, I noticed a matatu that had been raided by robbers and I could hear women crying. They said someone had snatched a phone." The former policeman said he singled out the deceased when he saw him running away from the Nissan. "I chased him, shot in the air and ordered him to stop but he didn’t. I heard gunshots and by the time I finally caught up with him, he was on the ground bleeding." A year before the incident, Katitu who now plays in a band, shot the deceased's brother Oscar Muchoki in another robbery incident in the same area. During the Monday testimony, he wondered why his colleagues were not called to testify. Katitu was placed in custody for 17 months pending testimonies by key witnesses. This was despite the payment of his bail by Governor Mike Sonko, who was a Senator at the time. Click here for the latest political news