President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday led the nation in mourning Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru. “Nyeri and the country have been robbed of a great promise with the demise of Dr Gakuru, a committed, visionary and tireless leader. My family and I, and the national government send our deepest condolences and sympathies to the late governor’s family,” he said. Deputy President William Ruto put ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru and Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina in charge of funeral arrangements. “The country is mourning this public servant who had woken up to tell the country about the plans he had for his people. We are saddened by the loss of our brother. He had great plans for Nyeri and the country at large,” he said. Former President Mwai Kibaki said Gakuru was “a man of progressive ideas since the conceptualisation of Vision 2030”.= “I had so much hope and faith in what Governor Gakuru would have done for the people of Nyeri and indeed the citizens of Kenya. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said Gakuru was a brilliant policymaker. “The Council of Governors has lost a visionary leader. I humbly accept these feelings as one more proof of our fragility as human beings,” he said.  Nyeri Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga said he had a cordial working relationship with Gakuru.  He said they had just set up a new county cabinet and were in the process of drafting the supplementary budget. “Gakuru and I grew together in the same area, worked together cordially, but we will take this situation with grace,” Kahiga said.  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said, “Very, very sad news from Nyeri ... Indeed ,we’re passersby on this earth. I pray for strength to the family of Dr Wahome and Nyeri people.” Senator Maina and MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Wambugu Ngunjiri (Nyeri Town), Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya) and Anthony Kiai (Mukurweini) said they worked closely with Gakuru and had no differences. ON AUGUST 8, Gakuru soundly defeated Samuel Wamathai, who succeeded Governor Nderitu Gachagua after his death on February 24.  Gachagua died after a prolonged battle with pancreatic cancer at The Royal Marsden Hospital in London. 