Joshua Chisanga has been ruled out of Saturday’s Four Nations Cup clash against hosts Hong Kong. The burly number eight limped off early in the Simbas’ 31-10 loss to Russia at the Kings Park ground on Tuesday during the first half. Confirming the news, Simbas head coach Jerome Paarwater said: “Joshua will be out on Saturday…this is a big blow for us. His knee doesn’t look too good and he may be out for a while. It’s unfortunate to lose him but we are fortunate enough not to have too many injuries.This boils down to how we have managed the squad and used the guys off the bench,” added Paarwater.  Strathmore’s Leos’ Elkeans Musonye will likely replace Chisanga for tomorrow’s clash against the hosts Hong Kong.  Paarwater’s charges face Hong Kong in their final match and are out of contention to win the Four Nations trophy following 23-3 defeat to Chile and 31-10 to Russia. Tomorrow’s clash against the hosts will be the third meeting this year between the two sides after two meetings in Nairobi with the Asian outfit drawing 19-19 and beating Kenya 44-34 in the second test to win the Tatu City series in August. Paarwater said he expects Musonye wto fit in the position well against the hosts considering his experience. “He played well against Russia. He is strong ball carrier and good defender and his link up play with the backs is good,” added Paarwater. The tactician said they have reviewed the performance against Russia and is optimistic about their chances against the hosts Hong Kong tomorrow. “We have to attack better and utilise our chances. we want to finish the tournament tomorrow with a flourish and get a win against Hong Kong,” added Paarwater. Elsewhere, former Homeboyz RFC captain Peter Wekesa will be laid to rest on November 25 in Lugari. Homeboyz’ head coach Paul Murunga said they burial was pushed forward so as not to collide with Mike Okombe’s which was yesterday. Peter Wekesa and his brother John Wekesa passed away on November 5 in Mombasa after a tragic accident. Meeting are being held Monday to Friday at Cardinal Otunga Plaza 7th floor, St.Faustina hall from 5.30pm.