More than a quarter of all house burglaries are organised by househelps, a security firm claims in a survey that should make city residents rethink how they hire maids.  Securex, a local security firm, says this crime trend appears is rising in Nairobi and Central Kenya.  The firm says they noted a 32 per cent increase in crime that happened in residential areas countrywide between July and September this year.  “We have also recorded a number of incidents where houses were broken into while the occupants were away, perhaps pointing towards insider information,” the firm said in a statement.  “With particular focus on Nairobi alone, 21 per cent of the activity that we noted in this period happened in residential areas. 11 per cent of this crime involved armed robbery, while a further 15 per cent comprised of theft,” it said.  The firm’s senior operations manager John Ogutu suggested Nairobians could be increasingly employing criminals masquerading as housemaids.  “We would advise that you rely on a referral from a trusted friend or family member rather than hire through a bureau. Some of the agencies mushrooming today have been infiltrated by criminal gangs, and since the industry isn’t regulated, it is difficult to know who to trust,” Ogutu said.  Recently, police said up to seven burglary incidents are recorded weekly in upmarket estates alone and no recoveries are made. The situation is worse in the lower income residential areas.   “Unfortunately, the fluid and unregulated nature of the industry means that your house help could well be a threat to your safety. We’ve noted several instances where domestic helps facilitated home break-ins by criminal gangs,” Ogutu, said.  A local firm that trains househelps and nannies blamed the crimes on unregistered househelp bureaus that spring up on social media and city estates.   “A good number of house-help bureaus that have sprung up in almost every estate have turned out to be conduits for thugs and kidnappers; and many people have lost their property and even children through such house girls,” said Josephine Chesaina, the founder of Maarifa Training Consultants,  She said employers should vet anyone before hiring them to work around their homes.  Ogutu said employers should also consider investing in surveillance cameras.  “You should also periodically check on your possessions, particularly small valuables such as jewellery. Rogue helps can take something small and easy to conceal as they proceed on their day off for example,” he said.