Former Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti alias Livondo has retired from active politics to venture into the corporate world. The politician noted on Monday that there is time for everything and that nobody should take political matters to him from now on. "Those who would like to interact with me can do so but not on matters politics because there is time for everything," he told The Star by phone. He noted that with corporate ventures, he will still interact with residents and people across Kenya, Africa and the whole world. Mwiti congratulated President Uhuru Kenyatta and his successor Moses Kirima on their election. "I am highly satisfied with the results of the August 8 election. For avoidance of doubt, I will not seek to be elected again as MP for Imenti Central," he said. "I am happy and grateful for serving as MP for Imenti Central from 2013 to 2017," he added and thanked his CDF committee. During Mwiti's tenure, infrastructure was built at schools, buses bought for some and bursaries disbursed. Water projectsalso took off, National Youth Service cohorts were employed, insurance provided for boda boda operators and chiefs' offices and roads constructed. The politician thanked his supporters and asked them to build the nation in their capacities as they wait for the next national election in 2022. Mwiti pleaded with the President Uhuru and NASA chief Raila Odinga for the softening of their stands and dialogue for the sake of peace and unity. "I request the top leadership in this country - winner Uhuru....the one to be sworn-in as president of Kenya...to try and dialogue with the Opposition for reconciliation, peace, prosperity and coexistence as citizens," he said. "Raila should not be underrated because if Uhuru has 10 supporters, Raila's are nine. Let them dialogue, not for nusu mkate, but so Raila can get a state job." He added: "Uhuru garnered 98 per cent of votes cast. Not many in the world get this. I thank Kenyans for maintaining peace even though NASA and its leaders are not comfortable with the results." Read: Uhuru re-elected President on 39% voter turnout Mwiti has faced allegations of raping a woman at Tana Club along Woodvale Grove in Westlands on March 21, 2015. He was charged alongside medical practitioner David Muchiri who allegedly subjected the complainant to an involuntary HIV test. Muchiri was also charged with failing to prevent a felony and aiding and abetting the offence of rape. On September, Mwiti lost his bid to have the case dropped. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi said the application by the defence team, which said the charge was defective, had no merit. More on this: Ex-Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti's loses bid to have rape charge dropped On May 5, 2012, Justice Alfred Mabeya ordered CBK to pay Akiba microfinance, a firm Mwiti is said to have started, Sh1 billion. This was after the court found the regulator acted arbitrarily in closing down the business.    