Title winning coach Dylan Kerr of Gor Mahia yesterday crowned his tenure at Kogalo with the Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month Award for September. The Briton led Gor Mahia to five victories and a draw in September, powering the club to an unprecedented 16th league title with 14 goals during that month.  Gor powered past Bandari (3-1), Sofapaka (2-1), Tusker (2-0), Chemelil (3-0) and Nzoia Sugar (4-0), only dropping points in a scoreless draw against minnows Thika United. Kerr was nominated alongside Kakamega Homeboyz tactician Mike Mururi but the Kogalo coach triumphed in a landslide vote carried out by football writers.  Upon confirming his first ever league victory, Kerr emblazoned Gor Mahia’s crest on his left leg in a permanent tattoo and reaffirmed his commitment to the club. “I’m not going anywhere. I have a commitment to Gor Mahia and my focus is on building the team for next year’s Caf Champions League and another Premier League medal. We have worked hard this season and will definitely put in more effort to perform better,” said the jubilant tactician.  “It has taken combined effort from the players, staff and club officials for Gor Mahia to play the way they did and we can only get better. We have identified players and areas to strengthen so we are due to sit down as a club and make the right decisions for next season’s busy schedule,” he added.  Kerr promised to wrap the league title with a good display against Sony Sugar in their last match of the season this Saturday in Kisumu. Besides playing for maximum points in that tie, Kerr wants to give the fans a good season ender. “The Kenyan league is big and should be supported more. The league organisers and federation should do more to market the league and bring fans to stadium. It’s really disheartening to see 22 fans in the stadium and thousands of empty seats yet the football served is of high quality. Something must be done to rectify that.” “Our last game should be thrilling and we have worked on it without any complacency of having won the title. We want to play well and win for our fans. That way lifting the title feels good. Losing a match then walking to collect winners’ medals does not feel right so we have to win that game,” he added.  Kerr has only lost one game since taking charge at Kogalo midway through the season and attributes his success to the playing unit. “They are a responsive lot willing to learn new things and implement game plans. They have won me this award,” Kerr said.