“Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win”, says Sun Tzu, the revered Chinese military genius whose fame continues to ring through the sands of time. Like smart warriors of yore, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have walked almost the perfect walk across Kenya’s brutally ruthless political minefield and navigated deftly through every raging typhoon. And that is three times in a row, no less. In 2013, they claimed the most unlikely of electoral victories, then faced the battle of their lives in the Supreme Court. And won. In August 2017, they pulled off a stunning victory at the ballot, polling a very impressive 54% of the presidential vote. Then they duly confronted a litigation war in the Supreme Court, again, and, in a rare setback, lost. The dynamic duo did not stand still, fully aware that even if you are on the right track, you will be run over if you just stay there! After the Maraga Black September 1st, they rallied their troops and struck with ferocious force. They won a stunning 98% of the votes cast. Now they are back in the Supreme Court theatre of war. Maraga Take II. In each of the three instances, the infectiously likeable son of Jomo and his Mundu-strong deputy have safely banked their victory first long before waging the war, in classical style that must make Sun Tzu smile and nod in approval in his ancient Chinese tomb! They have out-thought, outmanouvered, outflanked and completely befuddled their rivals, who have been left gasping for breath, lurching from one misadventure to another, including their boycott of the October 26 fresh election. It is against this backdrop that I am very confident the Supreme Court will uphold the October 26 fresh election outcome and affirm President Kenyatta’s second term. Indeed, the totality of the three cases before the Supreme Court is what we ordinarily characterise in law as frivolous, vexatious and a waste of the court’s precious time. The evidence on record portrays a scenario that falls squarely in the province of the de minimis non curat lex rule: Latin for “the law does not concern itself with trifles”. The expression of the rule that the law will not remedy an injury that is minimal. Namwamba is a lawyer and leader of the Labour Party  