Governor Mike Sonko's 10 county executive nominees will be sworn in today after their names were approved by the assembly yesterday. The MCAs unanimously endorsed the vetting report from the Appointments Committee chaired by Speaker Beatrice Elachi. The committee recommended the assembly approves all the names, saying the nominees met constitutional and statutory requirements. “All the nominees satisfy the requirements of Chapter 6 of the Constitution of Kenya on leadership and integrity,” reads the report. It said Sonko observed the two-thirds gender rule, ethnic and regional balance. The nominees include seven men and three women. “There is representation of minorities, marginalised groups and communities within Nairobi. The list also upholds the community and cultural diversity within the county,” states the report. Debating the report in the chamber yesterday, majority leader Abdi Guyo urged the nominees to give it their all. He said the assembly will not hesitate to sanction them if they fail to perform.  “We are telling them they are going to public offices to serve the public. So that is what they should do,” Guyo said. Minority chief whip and Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok said, “In real life situation, you cannot get a person who is 100 per cent perfect. The nominees are average and are people we can get into a corner so that Nairobians can get better services and development.” Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia urged the nominees to use their skills to serve the public. “We
expect them to work as governor works; with speed, be sensitive to
people's feelings and understand the dynamics of the people they serve,"
he said.     The nominees are Star Editor-In-Chief Charles Kerich (ICT), county
Public Service Board vice chairperson Vesca Kangogo (Finance), former
National Housing Corporation MD Peter Njuguna (Lands), Nairobi Safari
Club MD Allan Igambi (Tourism), flight attendant Emmah Muthoni
(Environment), county Service Delivery Unit director Danvas Makori
(Agriculture), Elimu Yetu Coalition director Janet Ouko (Education) and
former Machakos Tourism executive Larry Wambua (Devolution), Mohamed
Dagane (Transport), programmes coordinator – Rural Agency for Community Development and Assistance, and Biopharma MD Hitan Majevda (Health).  