The Kenya Ports Authority is expected to start using an upgraded terminal operating system at the Port off Mombasa from early next year. According to Trade Mark East Africa, who are implementing the project with the authority, they are only waiting for KPA to decide whether it will upgrade the current system or overhaul it for a new one. An international tender announcement by the port and published in October last year revealed that the upgrade will involve the system review, design and implementation. While in this process, Trade Mark will also set up a port community system that will integrate all players at the facility to enhance effective communication and reduced documentation process. “Through this system, we look forward to achieve 100 per cent papers activities by having all services transacted electronically,” Trade Mark East Africa director ICT for trade Alban Odhiambo told the Star in a mobile interview. The port serves as a point of exchange for imports and exports to and from South Sudan, Rwanda, Uganda, Burundi, Tanzania and Kenya. With this in mind, Odhiambo noted that the digitisation of port activities will be expanded to other East African countries through partnerships with government agencies that deal in trade related activities. Cumulatively, he approximated the whole integration project to cost an approximate Sh3.21 billion ($30million) and will be complete in a period of three years. Through this modification process, the authority intends to reduce transaction costs at the port by 30 to 35 per cent, reduce border clearance time by 65 per cent and reduce documentation process by 55 per cent. The system upgrade is aimed at reducing increasing traffic at the port that is exerting pressure on the existing ICT infrastructure. Shippers and clearing agents have been calling for the upgrade of the system to the globally-acceptable standards that would enable receipt of precise information of cargo prior to its arrival at the port. However, the current system, installed in 2008, has led to a number of disappointments to stakeholders which include but not limited to delays that have led to industrial shut downs, exports missing their orders, perishable exports as fruits and horticulture get spoilt leading to huge losses. The current system, Kilindini Waterfront Automated Terminal Operating System,allowed for the automation of key port areas, including container, conventional and marine operations. It currently integrates operational activities covered in Nairobi and Kisumu inland container depots. In addition to automation of the port activities, Trade Mark East Africa will, in March 2018, roll out a modern integrated custom management system for the Kenya Revenue Authority that will help in easing cargo clearance, minimising document forgery and cub tax evasion cases.