Kipchumba Murkomen has said he remains Raila Odinga's fan despite issuing scathing attacks against the Opposition leader. This was after a photo of the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator and Raila surfaced on Twitter. "It is fair to say that at one point, [Murkomen] was a big fan of [Raila] during his youthful days at the University of Nairobi," Saddique Shaban, who posted the photo, tweeted. "I am still a fan," Murkomen tweeted back. His reply attracted  comments from supporters and followers, many asking him about the double standard. Murkomen has been picking on Raila and the Opposition since he became part of the government when he was elected as the senator in 2013. On October 9, Twitter erupted after the Senate majority leader claimed Raila was planning to quit the presidential race. Murkomen claimed the NASA chief hoped he would cause a crisis by quitting the race but that his plan was being complicated by ongoing court cases. More on this: KOT, Miguna chide Murkomen after claim Raila quitting race Also read: KOT burns Murkomen after he picks on Raila over KDF remarks "How then should we interpret those "chilli sauce" comments from you to your fan?" Shaban‏ replied. '@DetachmentMe' said: "Not a big fan...he needed a step ladder but now power is in the head [so] he's lost focus and sees nothing else....even if his own are killed he cares less. Raila, identifies leaders, cleans and sells them [sic]." "ts rumoured that that was the last day @kipmurkomen was seen at the University of Nairobi," '@ItsOngiro' said. '@SammyCharana1' said: "First photo of Kipmurkomen ... Be thankful to BABA mheshimiwa (Honourable Raila)." "Peeps use Baba to climb the ladder and once they reach the top, they start their #VerbalDiarrhea. #Ruto was a nobody earlier," '@DOPsRant' said. William Ruto and Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party won another five years as Kenya's rulers after the repeat presidential election on Ocotber 26. But petitions have been filed and Opposition leaders have threatened to block his inauguration and declare Raila the president. The government has said it wil not let this happen. Related: NASA won't block Uhuru swearing-in, declare Raila president - Kiraithe Francis Limera said: "Very true...before he learnt the easiest way to making it in Kenyan politics is insulting and name-calling Raila and the Judiciary. I wish we had leaders called to serve, not called to be served." Another user said Murkomen was right in having an independent mind devoid of any influence. '@ngumokingori' said: "At some point you have to pursue your interest devoid of anyone's perpetual shadow. That's called maturity...just the same way you leave your parent's house to establish an independent life."