Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi boss Amason Kingi are stirring up the secession issue to improve their bargaining position for senior government jobs after 2022, Tourism CS Najib Balala has said. Balala yesterday said the two governors have failed to live up to their promises and provide services. “When leaders fail to deliver to their people, they want to hide under the excuses of marginalisation. If you do not deliver, blame yourself and make room for other leaders,” he said at Mama Ngina Girls Secondary School. He witnessed the opening of the KCSE exam papers. “This is politics. People see that in 2022 they will not have positions anymore. And so they want to use the emotional secession debate to position themselves in negotiating for powerful positions,” the CS said. He said secession talk — which was kicked off last Friday by Joho and Kingi — is dangerous and will divide Kenyans along tribal lines and into ethnic cocoons. Joho and Kingi said the Coast region have been marginalised and they would pursue self-rule. “Let’s not be reckless in talking about secession just because we want to defy the government,” Balala said. “It’s going to create war among us,” he said. The majority tribes will want to oppress the minority tribes,” he said. Balala said secession talk leads to talk of evicting other tribes. “This is where we’ll ignite fire within our country. Let’s be very careful.” On Monday, Joho and Kingi met for five hours with European envoys who told them secession talk will raise tension and risk plunging the region into chaos. The envoys were British High Commissioner Nic Hailey, French Ambassador Antoine Sivan, European Union envoy Stefano Dejak and Danish Ambassador Mette Knudsen. Kingi and Joho were adamant and said they would not back down. Senior government officials also say the two governors are seeking political mileage through the secession debate. Balala said the law is very clear and there is no window or avenue for secession in the 2010 Constitution. He said the Coast region is promoting majimboism and this issue of autonomy is already addressed by the Constitution. The secession agenda must end, Balala said. “The Coast doesn’t belong to two people. It belongs to all of us. The beauty of the Coast is that it’s a melting point for all tribes, religions and races. We all have equal rights with everybody,” he said.