Police in Nairobi are holding five suspects, among them three Kenya Airways staff, in connection with a 40-kg heroin haul seized at JKIA yesterday. The suspects include two cabin crew members and a Nigerian suspected to be a drug trafficker. Police have yet to ascertain the street value of the consignment. The other suspects were arrested in two homes in Nairobi, where more narcotics were recovered. Anti-Narcotic police chief Hamisi Masaa said the suspects will be charged in court and the foreigners will be deported upon getting orders. Detectives from the Special Crime Prevention Unit and the NIS conducted the operation in the morning. Alfic Otieno and Lennox Chesitit, part of the KQ cabin crew, were arrested as they prepared to ferry the narcotics to Lagos. Police investigations revealed the KQ staff were working in cahoots with Kenneth Sinzore, a KQ baggage handler who was also arrested. The investigators also raided a house in Savannah Estated Phase IV, where the Nigerian was arrested and more narcotics were recovered wrapped in paper bags.  Last evening, the investigators established that the drug cartel also involved another KQ staff who has since been interdicted. More drugs were found at the home of a former KQ employee Dondi Okoth in Fedha Estate.  A similar operation against members of the syndicate was carried out on October 13 at JKIA and led to the arrest of two flight crew members and the seizure of four kilogrammes of heroin.  The team undertook a major sting operation and in the process intercepted the narcotics concealed as Kenyan coffee. The drugs were hidden within the crew restroom of a KQ plane destined for Hong Kong, China. During the operation, the strike team arrested suspects Daniel Koech and Paul Omondi, both KQ in-flight crew members. The two are suspected to have been working with former colleagues to secretly traffic drugs to China, the Netherlands and India. The operation was triggered by a tip-off from friendly foreign security agencies.