Political parties have been urged to conclude the process of nominating their members to the East African Legislative Assembly. Nominations kick off today. Some 208 people applied. Read: Mutea Iringo, ex-MPs feature in list of EALA MP applicants Joint Parliamentary Select Committee co-chair Katoo ole Metito yesterday told the House that members of the East African Community are concerned that Kenya is the only member state that has not submitted its nine members to EALA. “Considering that the Assembly cannot be inaugurated without representation from any of the partner states, Kenya can no longer be the country holding the takeoff of the regional Assembly in abeyance,” he said. House clerks Michael Sialai (National Assembly) and Jeremiah Nyegenye (Senate), who are the presiding officers, are today expected to receive nomination papers for the candidates from Majority leader Aden Duale and Minority leader John Mbadi. Public inspection of the candidates’ documents and nomination papers will be done tomorrow and their names will be presented to the joint committee next Tuesday. The joint committee will consider the nominees and present its report to the House on Wednesday, before the election slated for December 11. “I request the House and political parties to note the key timelines of the election and support the Joint Committee in steering the election of Kenya’s representatives to EALA to its logical conclusion,” Metito said. The 11th Parliament could not hold the election as scheduled because the House proceeded to the sine die recess in June to give MPs ample time to participate in election campaigns ahead of the August 8 General Election. The final list of applicants for the Arusha-based assembly contains prominent names fronted by political parties. Jubilee Party has slotted former Interior PS Mutea Iringo and former MPs Wanjiku Muhia (Nyandarua), Moses ole Sakuda (Kajiado West), Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East) and Danson Mungatana (Garsen). Others are former Embu Speaker Kariuki Mate and politician Omingo Magara. The ODM list has former MPs Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi) and NASA leader Raila Odinga’s brother – Oburu Oginga. NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka’s son, Kennedy Kalonzo, featured on the Wiper list. Click here for the latest political news