More than 30,000 mourners are expected tomorrow in Nyeri during the burial of former Governor Wahome Gakuru. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and the Cabinet are expected to attend the funeral in Kirichu, Nyeri Town constituency. Nyeri Infrastructure executive Muthui Kariuki confirmed that the President will attend the burial. It is unclear whether opposition outfit NASA leader Raila Odinga will attend. “There is a probability that the opposition will attend, but seeing as Raila attended the burial of former Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua in February, he might also attend this one, though it is not clear,” Kariuki said. The service will be held in Kagumo Boys High School grounds before Gakuru is laid to rest in his home located 2km from the school. Gakuru is an alumni of the high school. At his Kirichu home, his family has been preparing for his final sendoff. The grave was dug on Wednesday. Workers were putting up tents in the school grounds, arranging chairs, paving roads and connecting power at the main venue. Nyeri clerics, choirs, the county government staff and family were also preparing. Gakuru’s vehicle was faulty, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga said on Tuesday. The Mercedes-Benz E250 was involved in the accident last Tuesday as Gakuru, 51, was travelling to Nairobi for an interview. He died in Thika Level Five Hospital shortly after. Gakuru leaves behind widow Catherine and three sons. “He had on many occasions complained that the car will kill him one day since it was faulty. He would even use his personal car during his regular travelling since he knew the Benz was faulty,” Kahiga said. Police had said a tyre burst led to the accident. Kahiga, who was sworn in on Monday, said the vehicle was among other county vehicles that were faulty. He was speaking during Gakuru’s memorial service at Dedan Kimathi University in Nyeri. He said the county has allocated Sh13 million for a vehicle for the governor. “The one I’m now using has been borrowed from the Finance ministry. The governor needs to use a proper and safer car,” Kahiga said. Senators eulogised Gakuru as a practical and hardworking Kenyan who was dedicated to serving the country. They said the county boss contributed immensely to implementing Kenya’s transformative Vision 2030. The senators called for unity in the country, asking leaders to put aside their political differences at such trying moments. The legislators included Ephraim Maina and Kipchumba Murkomen.