Anyone who follows US politics — even passively — would agree the country is going through a phase like never before with a President more than half the country either hates or at least wishes he would go away. But the President also has a cult-like following, many of who belong to all manner of racist groups. They see Donald Trump’s presidency as somewhat of a big “eraser” of the election, reelection and serving of two terms of President Barack Obama. One of these groups is the Ku Klux Klan, a White supremacist movement that has existed in various forms since its inception before the American Civil War, but one that was subsequently brought under control until Trump emerged as the Republican Party nominee in 2016. Since then, a case can be made there’s an effort underway for groups such as this to re-group, feeling emboldened with the election of Trump. One of the Klan’s objectives is not only to make America all White — an impossibility — but a more practical objective from its perspective is to deny the Blacks the rights enjoyed by the Whites, key among them the right to vote. To this end, the Klan has used intimidation of voters going back to 1871, when the US Congress passed a law to curtail violent efforts by this group to prevent Black people from voting. Although these efforts were largely thwarted, political efforts to make it harder for Black voters to get to the polls have nonetheless been more effectively pursued, especially through the legislative process. Some states, for example, trimmed early voting time, contributing to lower turnout from Black voters in those states. Black leaders and progressives in America see these efforts to suppress or altogether deny Blacks their right to vote as nothing but an evil that must be eradicated from American politics. For his part, NASA’s Raila Odinga sees his repeatedly and wantonly being rigged out of elections as an evil that must be eradicated from Kenyan politics.  In his speech before the Center for Strategic & International Studies in Washington DC, Raila made a compelling case about how this can be accomplished and did so by answering several interconnected questions whose answers provide the full picture of exactly what Raila is upto in combating this menace: First, as to why he boycotted the repeat election and asked his supporters to stay home, Raila said going to the polls conducted by a heavily compromised IEBC, which was once again ready to do the bidding of Jubilee, would have given the election some measure of legitimacy, which he and NASA knew would be unwise. Second, and the more nuanced explanation though he did not put it in these words, Raila left the impression he must have had intel, as he always has, to the effect that had he gone to the pre-determined polls in favour of UhuRuto and Jubilee, he could not count on the Supreme Court for the second time: Not because he would not have had the evidence, but Jubilee was to make sure there was no decision from the Court and if there was, it would have been in their favour, be it by way of threats, coercion or death. Third, to Raila and NASA, the quest now is not for redoing the polls of 2017 but rather putting in place a government that can see to it that proper reforms are instituted once and for all to prepare, conduct and deliver credible polls consistent with the Constitution. On this last point, Raila has unanimous support, not just from among those key friends of Kenya and Kenyans in the US he met and addressed but also among all those who have been with him all along and may have been confused by his latest moves some mistook to be a desire to go into the bush and resist with violence — which this writer can assure the world is not the case based on what Raila himself has categorically stated and all known information.         Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator based in the United States        