Politicians pushing for the Coast secession agenda will soon tour the region to sell their agenda, Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said yesterday. The regional tour is expected to begin in a few weeks. The MP said the agitation to seek self-rule of the Coast region is unstoppable. He said the time is ripe for the coastal communities to get a glimpse of what they meant by calling for the secession. “We have come from far in agitating for a free Coast state. This journey is unstoppable and we thought it is through going back to the people and telling them its importance that we can sail without any hitches,” the MP said. Katana spoke in Kaloleni after unveiling the Kaloleni NG-CDF committee. The ODM legislator said the agony of witnessing other regions develop as Coast lags behind is reason enough to get the region separated from the rest of Kenya for the sake of development. “We are not doing this for politicians, but we are looking at the future generation. How will it treat us if we fail to get over our resources and govern ourselves as an independent state?” he asked. He was accompanied by three MCAs who also said they support the move to push for the split of the region. They are Kayafungo MCA Alphonce Mwayaa, Mwanamwinga's Pascal Makanga and Mariakani's Frank Fondo. The ward representatives cited various historical injustices that have not been resolved. Mwayaa said little or no development from successive regimes has been taken to the region.  “Since Independence, we have been marginalised. Every government that comes to power only uses the region to get votes. There are industries that have not been developed although they were meant to benefit residents,” he said. Makanga said their call for secession should not be misunderstood as a way to evict people from upcountry from the Coast. “That perception is not true. We have upcountry people who belong to the Coast. We know that our opponents in this push are branding it negatively, but even those upcountry people living and working at the Coast will not be victimised in any way,” he said. Fondo said the region had been sidelined even during construction of the standard gauge railway, adding that locals were denied jobs. “These and many other things are what are pushing us to call for secession. We need to govern ourselves and these problems will not be there,” he said.