President Uhuru Kenyatta has given himself as a benchmark in his speech today and it will be used to gauge him going forward. His second Inaugural Address sounded very promising and he sounded like someone who is determined to achieve his promises. However, Kenyatta’s speech needs to be put to the test against the speech he gave at his first inauguration in 2013. The President was silent on what he promised in 2013 and made new promises to Kenyans but did not scorecard his previous promises. The speech touched on many key issues affecting the country, among them the division that has torn the country because of different political allegiances. Uhuru said he will be the President of all and we give him the benefit of the doubt. For him to achieve unity country it will all depend on what he will do, going forward. How his administration will govern the country and distribute resources across the counties to grow the economy across the country. However, I expected to hear more about how the national government has increased the allocation of funds to the county governments. More allocation to the counties means powering the engines that will end poverty because these counties are where the people who feel the pinch of economic decline live and are the main reason we are divided as a country. The President also said he will not isolate his competitors’ ideas, and I commend him for that because he has shown he is playing the politics of agendas. In fact, in his speech he borrowed some ideas from the Thirdway Alliance manifesto on industrialization and power. He touched much on maximizing, buying and selling Kenyan-made goods and that was one of our main pillars during the campaigns. This is a good sign, and we are happy our manifesto it will be used to benefit Kenyans. Going forward, the Thirdway Alliance as the opposition will play its role of keeping the government in check, and we plan doing so by proposing legislation that will end the bad politics and present the politics of ideas. The legislation includes proposing changes in the VAT Act, laws that will restore discipline in the government and laws on industrialization, among others.