Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana is now Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's pointman in Ukambani. Kibwana's appointment to replace the renegade former Kitui Senator David Musila comes as NASA legislators jostle for House leadership and committee membership slots. Wiper has also replaced its rebel secretary general and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar with former Nominated Senator Judith Sijeny. Omar quit Wiper for Jubilee after indicting Kalonzo's leadership and NASA for not backing his bid to take over from Governor Hassan Joho. Joho, who is deputy leader of NASA boss Raila Odinga's ODM party, won the August 8 poll by a landslide. More on this: Omar resigns as Wiper secretary general, cites 'deep rooted' reasons Also read: Wiper leaders weak, Jubilee right in your bedroom, Omar tells Kalonzo The duo are battling it out in court as Omar petitioned Joho's win despite emerging position three. Jubilee Party's Suleiman Shabal was second. Regarding Kibwana's appointment, organizing secretary Robert Mbui told The Star: “Members met on Monday and our main agenda was to fill vacant positions.  "Professor Kibwana was appointed chairman and Senator Sijeny secretary general, both in acting capacity until we hold the annual general meeting," he said on Tuesday. Musila quit Wiper to be independent but lost the Kitui Governor race to Narc leader Charity Ngilu. He had accused Kalonzo of favoring former Governor Julius Malombe to retain the seat on a Wiper ticket. "Wiper firmly in NASA" Mbui also revealed that during Wiper's meeting at an Athi River resort, the lawmakers affirmed their commitment to the National Super Alliance and its resistance.   Media reports had put the party's solidarity to question due to members' inactivity, compared to their colleagues in ODM, ANC and Ford Kenya. “We agreed to increase our visibility in NASA activities. We resolved that all our members must be in all activities of NRM so they do not look like ODM affairs. We are preparing for 2022 and the slot for the Presidency is ours,” Mbui said. Francis Nyenze left out On positions in Parliament, the coalition has submitted names to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for approval. Mbui was fronted to deputize Minority Leader and Suba South MP John Mbadi while Suna East MP Junet Mohamed is to take up the Whip position with Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa as deputy. Kalonzo's right-hand man and Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, who served as Minority Leader in the 11th Parliament, has been left out of House leadership. Read: ODM takes Minority Leader, Whip in new House list Also read: Muturi and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka had given NASA up to today to submit its House leadership members. NASA is yet to submit names of members of parliamentary committees including potential chairs of two powerful watchdog committees - Public Investment and Public Accounts. Musalia Mudavadi's ANC is fronting Vihiga Senator George Khaniri to take up a commissioner's slot in the Parliamentary Service Commission and Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi as chair Public Accounts Committee. Bunyasi will square it out with Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi who has also expressed interest in PAC chairmanship, although the four principals - Raila, Moses Wetang'ula, Kalonzo and Mudavadi - will make the final decision. Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya is fronting Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka for Public Investment Committee chair. “I'm interested in the PIC chairman post because of my seniority and experience in Parliament. If you look at the House right now, you will one to three members with the experience I have. I served as an assistant minister and in various parliamentary committees,” Onyonka told The Star on phone. He asked the principals to be fair to every party and share leadership slots to curb disagreements and any possible division. Onyonka is also eying the commissioner position in the Parliamentary Service Commission. Wetang'ula's aide told The Star that Kisumu Town West Olago Aluoch has expressed interest in  being Justice and Legal Affairs vice chair. The aide said NASA principals are expected to hold a meeting this week to agree on members to represent the coalition in various committees. Click here for the latest political news