More than 400 nurses in Murang'a county were shocked to find that they had been sacked when they reported to their workstations after their strike. The five months countrywide nurses strike ended on Thursday after their Union and the governor's council signed a return to work formula. The county said the 427 were dismissed for absconding duty. Murang'a county executive in charge of health Joseph Mbai said the nurses had been replaced after several pleas by the county government to resume work. "We appealed to them to go back to work because the sector was struggling and patients were suffering but only a few heeded to our calls," Mbai said. More on this: Nurses turn down governors offer to end strike, dialogue Also read: Governors call crisis meeting to end biting nurses' strike He said the county government made public announcements that those who failed to report back to work would be sacked. This decision, he noted, is irreversible as the county government could not watch helplessly as patients suffered. 'We restored health services in September when we hired new nurses," he said. Murang'a general hospital which is the county referral hospital received 35 new nurses, bringing the total number of nurses in the facility to 70 as some had already returned to work. The chairman of the county nurses union Kenneth Kihato said it is unfair for the government to fire them when they were fighting for their rights in a legal strike. "We would not relent in pushing for our rights, the county government did not follow the due process," he said. He confirmed having received a circular from Mbai indicating that they had already been fired. Union secretary general Seth Panyako said part of the deal was that the nurses will not be victimised for participating in the strike. On Thursday, it was agreed that the nurses will get a uniform allowance of Sh15,000 between 2018 and 2019 and that it will be increased by Sh5,000 over three years. More on this read; Nurses end 'long, tedious' strike after deal with government