Is Secession the only way out? This is the question Kenyans are asking over the political stalemate in the country. The Opposition want Kenya to be divided into The People's Republic of Kenya and the Central Republic of Kenya. The narrative to split the country is gaining momentum and has seen tribal inclination take centre stage in support or opposition to the move. The discussion was escalated after Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma drafted the Bill seeking to split the country. In the Bill to be tabled in Parliament, Kaluma wants 40 out of the 47 counties to secede and form the People's Republic of Kenya. The MP argues that these counties have continually been discriminated upon by successive governments. The Bill says while all important public appointments have remained the preserve of a few, the national budget is permanently skewed to benefit a few groups, communities and regions while marginalising the rest. More on this: MP Kaluma drafts secession Bill to form 'People's Republic of Kenya' While most NASA supporters support the move, other political groupings have dismissed it saying splitting Kenya is a joke. "Jubilee will make a lot of noise about the Secession Bill thinking it'll be thwarted by their reducible tyranny of numbers. Little do they know how NRM will pull the carpet under their feet," @membaibrahim said. He added: "Once presented, we only need a single vote from mwananchi yet in this case, it's 65%." Read: Secession talk divides country @erwoti said the bill provides an opportunity for the Kalenjin and Kikuyu nation to walk away. "...away from the rest of us who bring nothing to the national table. Enjoy your independence as we enjoy ours. Zero-sum game, right?" he asked. @kamwash254 said: "My advice to fellow Kenyans,this is the time to interrupt the 54 years old presidential merry-go-round.Something is wrong,and we need to fix it. Secession bill." "The devil came to steal, to kill and to destroy. They have stolen from public coffers, they have brutally murdered our people and they have destroyed our economy. Let's talk the Secession Bill. We are ripe for revolution," @ItsOchieng said. @nyandiga001 said: "Why are Kikuyus and Kalenjins bitter about Secession Bill? I thought it should excite them as it allows them to alternate the presidency at will." "You stole in 2007, we chose peace. You stole in 2013, we accepted and moved on. You steal twice in 2017. We are choosing peace, accepting and moving on >> Secession Bill," @Kommonsense7 said. @skgjnr said "Secession Bill is just a tip of the iceberg, #NRM People's Assembly will reveal people's frustration with jubilee autocracy." @Mzalendogirl said "I support the SECESSION Bill. This marriage is not working. It would be best perhaps to divorce. It won't be easy obviously. When is life ever easy." Other users said the Opposition was not serious about splitting the country and that it will flop tremendously. "This secession bill should be included in the list of Jokes of the year 2017. It will fall flat like the Okoa Kenya, that these guys collected fake Signatures," @Atanasi said.‏ Read: Secession dangerous, Raila should accept Uhuru defeat - Kikuyu elders @KinyanBoy said "On secession bill, I think it's just but a smart political gimmick with no serious intent to sail thro but spark serious conversations." "I have laughed off that Bill . How can you set 40 counties against 7 counties whereas we know it's 43 counties that voted against 4 counties that didn't vote," @GitongaDaniel said. @JamesKariukiNg5 said "That secession bill is dead on arrival where did he get the 40 counties from.I must be living in the moon." NASA’s six-point political “revolution” strategy in its pursuit for electoral justice is causing jitters in the Jubilee administration. Opposition’s political rallies, boycott of some products, secession calls and threats to swear in NASA leader Raila Odinga as head of state if President Uhuru Kenyatta is sworn in have puzzled many in Jubilee. Jubilee leadership is also worried by the decision of county assemblies in perceived NASA zones to pass opposition motions in addition to Raila’s diplomatic push. More on this: NASA’s ‘revolt’ plan causes jitters in Jubilee