The withdrawal of Opposition chief Raila Odinga from the controversial presidential rerun will cost cash-strapped NASA millions of shillings from the Political Parties Fund. This will make it difficult to fund its ambitious National Resistance Movement — the Million-Man March, the national People's Assembly, an economic boycott and demonstrations until "legitimate" presidency is restored. Rebellions cost money. Jubilee's financial war chest will be overflying. By law, only political parties with at least five per cent of the total vote in the last poll are entitled to public funding. This refers to the tallies for President, Members of Parliament, governors and members of county assemblies. The details emerged just a day after ODM — the fulcrum of Kenyan opposition — lost a Sh4.1 billion case against the state. The Orange Party was demanding payment of arrears from the Political Parties Fund accrued between 2012 and 2016. Things will even get tougher for NASA and its four affiliate parties if President Uhuru Kenyatta's October 26 victory stands and he is eventually sworn in. Yesterday Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung'u said parties have Sh371.2 million to share in this financial year. Ndung'u confirmed that Jubilee will benefit greatly from the October 26 presidential rerun. "In fact, we had a discussion in the office and we felt that the criteria is skewed in their favour," Ndung'u told the Star yesterday. She promised, however, that the money will not be disbursed until all legal avenues and challenges regarding the presidential poll are exhausted. The Political Parties Act 2011 states, “The total number of votes secured by a political party shall be computed by adding the total number of votes obtained in the preceding general election by a political party in the election for the President, members of Parliament, county governors and members of county assemblies." But Raila has pledged he will not allow Uhuru's "sham" election and "coronation" to stand. NASA has begun printing T-shirts for the National Resistance Movement, signifying the coalition could be going flat out to resist the new administration. The coalition is said to planning a One-Million-Man march in Nairobi early next month to kick off a rebellion. Political parties are entitled to at least 0.3 per cent of national revenue every year. However, only 95 per cent of the fund is distributed proportionately, by reference to the total number of votes won by each political party in the preceding general election. The rest, five per cent, is retained by the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties for administrative costs. This means that Raila, who secured a paltry 73,228 votes after his dramatic withdrawal from the race, will be hugely disadvantaged in sharing of the fund. In the financial year 2014-2015, ODM received Sh137 million from the state and a further Sh78 million in 2015-2016. Through an internal coalition agreement, the money was shared with Wiper and Ford Kenya, the two affiliate parties of the defunct Cord. Uhuru's TNA received Sh158 million and 8Sh9 million, respectively, in the two financial years But at that time, Raila had 24 governors and his was the single largest political party in Kenya by representation in Parliament. On Monday, Uhuru was declared winner of the repeat elections with 7,483,895 votes, translating into 98.26 per cent of the votes cast. The ruling Jubilee coalition is also privileged by an almost super-majority in the bicameral parliament and the county assemblies. The party has 171 MPs in the National Assembly and 34 Senators ODM, on the other hand, has 66 MPs in the National Assembly and 20 Senators. This means Jubilee will bag most of the Political Parties Fund. For the past five years, Raila bitterly complained that the government released a negligible amount to political parties and alleged this was meant to starve and cripple the opposition. “The failure or refusal to disburse all the funds due to the political party undermines democracy, the rule of law, and the objectives for which the fund was established,” senior counsel James Orengo argued in court But on Wednesday, High Court judge Roslyne Aburili ruled that she could not force the taxpayer to shoulder the arrears as ODM never demanded the money at the right time. The judge said the fund set aside from the national revenue was not a debt and thus could not be paid if it was not allocated by the National Assembly at the time. “The party waited for four financial years to demand the money, yet it knew that Parliament had not been allocating the correct figures,” the judge said. “It will not be in the interests of justice or public policy for the amount to be released to the party.” Before the repeat presidential polls, there were allegations that the Opposition was broke and Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka turned to Kenyans for funding. NASA has already lined up a series of activities it says are part of their struggle to topple Uhuru and organise fresh elections in 90 days. The meetings, marches, People's Assembly and protests will be financially draining for the Opposition. The broad-based People’s Assembly, a kind of alternate Parliament, will be in session until “legitimate presidency is restored” through a fresh legitimate election. The Assembly will spearhead what NASA calls restoration of democracy, constitutionalism and the rule of law. As part of the People’s Assembly, NASA is forming a task force to study the systemic continuing failure of electoral bodies in Kenya.