Kenya could be headed for fierce political battles as NASA sustains its push for electoral reforms. NASA’s demands include devolving the IEBC, revisiting the Bomas draft constitution’s parliamentary system and setting up a tribunal to probe the disputed August 8 election. The alliance wants the IEBC devolved so each county can independently run its elections, including that of the presidency. Its leaders say the government uses IEBC officials based at Anniversary Towers, Nairobi, to compromise polls. NASA says county offices should carry out their own activities so officials at the headquarters do not influence policies in favour of the incumbent. It further wants the role of IEBC officials in the Agust 8 polls probed.  This will empower government organs and ensure culprits face the full force of the law so justice is served, NASA adds. “A small club of people is holding on to power to satisfy individual interests at the expense of taxpayers,” NASA chief campaigner Musalia Mudavadi told the Star on Thursday. He said NASA will remain firm in pushing for reforms — the key to restoring electoral justice. “Kenya must have a leadership that respects the rule of law, promotes electoral justice and has the interests of Kenyans at heart,” Mudavadi said in an interview. The alliance is finalising proposals on how the country’s governance structure should be changed so it is inclusive and preserves fair play. “The current administration is a reluctant partner in pushing for justice and is busy fighting devolution and the Constitution to advance its interests. We’ll ensure the interests of Kenyans are achieved,” the ANC leader said. NASA created the National Resistance Movement to take charge of peaceful protests, as the principals focus on a diplomatic charm offensive to bring Western allies to its side. “The country is being run by an exclusive club where the majority are excluded and blackmailed. Some are intimidated and threatened to endorse a government that has no legitimacy,” Mudavadi said. NASA says a parliamentary system will ensure inclusivity.