An orphan who
defied all odds to become the best KCPE candidate In Elgeyo Marakwet County is
seeking sponsorship to proceed to secondary school. Moses Kiptanui,
14, of Liz Academy in Kapcherop, Marakwet West was sponsored by the School’s
Director Charles Torotich from nursery school to standard eight. Toroitich
said the boy’s father died when the boy was in nursery school. The school
director said he and his wife Margaret took the boy and enrolled him in nursery
school. He said Kiptanui
was hit by another agonizing loss after his mother died in 2015. Toroitich
said the boy has been scoring impressive marks, topping his class since joining
the school. “We are
happy that Kiptanui has performed excellently. We took him into our school
after his parents died. We paid his school fees, clothes and adopted him as our
child,” Toroitich said. He said it
will be difficult for the family to pay the boy’s secondary school fees and
urged well wishers to help the boy continue with his secondary school
education, since he has other six children to feed to educate. Kiptanui said
his parents’ death did not deter him from working hard in school. He said he
wants to join Starehe Boys Centre and afterwards pursue engineering to help his
three sisters. “I have been
top in my class since I joined school. I have only become number two twice
since joining primary school,” Kiptanui said. But amid the
joy, Kiptanui expressed worries about his future after school selection is
concluded next month, saying he may not proceed to secondary school due to
financial problems. “I thank
Torotich and his family for helping me to complete my primary education. I lack
words to express my gratitude for their gesture. They have done a lot and my education
future is now bleak,” Kiptanui said. Margaret’
who is a co-director at Liz Academy said her family took the bright boy as
their own child. “Our big
challenge is that our six children are in various secondary schools while
others are universities. It will be so difficult now that Kiptanui whom we have
assisted to complete primary school joins high school,” Margaret said. She called
on well wishers to turn up and help the orphan through his secondary school
education to help her sisters in future. ENDS//  