Millions in taxpayers money will be used to foot former MCAs’ defaulted car loans and mortgages acquired without security. An audit report tabled in the Senate reveals that a majority of the 47 county assemblies mismanaged the car loans and mortgages scheme, leaving the public with the burden of clearing MCAs’ debts. Auditor General Edward Ouko’s report for the year that ended June 30, 2016, shows some assemblies violated the Public Financial Regulations by allowing MCAs to access car loans and mortgages, without providing logbooks and title deeds as security. The law requires MCAs to have cleared their loans before their five-year term in office lapses. The Nyandarua county assembly has been put on the spot after Sh189 million was spent on 42 MCAs car loans and mortgages. However, 34 members did not surrender logbooks and title deeds. “The propriety and administration of car loans and mortgages facility could not be confirmed. The county assembly may not be able to recover the debts in case of default by members,” Ouko says. The Auditor General says it would be difficult to recover Sh180 million unsecured car loans and mortgages spent on Homa Bay MCAs and the county assembly staff. He says the assembly’s management failed to provide proof that the county government owned the motor vehicles and properties jointly with the borrowers to secure the interests of the assembly. A sum of Sh22.6 million in loans for Bungoma MCAs is yet to be recovered, the audit report shows. “It is not certain that county assembly members loans would be recovered before the end of their term,” Ouko says. The assembly’s loans management committee is on the spot after its members pocketed Sh4 million for general administration expenses, without receipts. The Kisumu assembly engaged in several anomalies impeding auditors in establishing the status of Sh250 million car loans and mortgages obtained by MCAs. “The management did not make available documents for audit review, such as complete bank statements for the period under review, contract documents, loan status reports including outstanding balances, as well as signatories to the bank accounts,” the auditor says. Ouko says irregularities committed by the Kisumu county assembly made it hard to confirm the validity of the scheme’s status during the audit period. 