Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma yesterday asked the High Court to order an audit, scrutiny and recount of votes in the August 8 election. Ranguma lost to Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o. He has petitioned the win by Nyong’o. Ranguma’s lawyer Richard Onsongo told Justice David Majanja that the election was marred by irregularities. Onsongo said a recount of votes will provide evidence. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission opposed the application. IEBC lawyer Edwin Mukele said the petitioner had been given all documents he had requested. Mukele said they presented all the forms 37A. “There should be no recount because the forms presented have not been disputed,” Mukele said. He said all Ranguma’s witnesses had failed to convince the court there were irregularities in the election. Nyong’o’s lawyer James Orengo also opposed the recount. Orengo said the petitioner had not produced enough evidence to warrant an order for vote recount. Majanja said he will rule on the application on Friday next week.  Ranguma had accused Nyong’o of conspiring with the IEBC to rig the election. “In my view, Nyong’o managed IEBC officials who were able to access the servers, edit results and make a declaration in his favour,” Ranguma told the court on Tuesday. In his affidavit, Ranguma says several electoral malpractices were committed during the voting and transmission of results. He told the court that his agents were denied access to various polling stations and tallying centres.  Ranguma also said some voters were given more than one ballot paper to cast in Nyong’o’s favour.  There was also failure to mark and secure spoilt votes which were later counted in favour of Nyong’o, he said. “That was part of the strategy to deny me my victory,” Ranguma said.  He also said presiding officers threatened his agents.  “Some POs forced agents present to sign the declaration forms before final figures of the results were released,” Ranguma said  “In some cases, the agents were badly threatened forcing them to oblige,” he added.  The POs also failed to issue the agents with copies of result declaration forms, he said.