"Mr Odinga, don’t you think that you are being too demanding in expecting a perfect free and fair election? Even in the US we did not have such an election.” This was a loaded question, reflecting a line of thinking Jubilee and its supporters have used to discredit Raila Odinga’s claims that the August and October elections were not free and fair. But it gave the opportunity for the perfect riposte. Are Kenyans seeking perfection if we object to the chief IT electoral official being tortured and murdered? Or objecting to the President threatening Supreme Court justices for annulling his election? I have been with Raila on visits to the US before but there has never been such an extraordinary level of interest in him, from government as well as Congressional officials to Africa policy experts, the Republican and Democratic electoral democracy building bodies IRI and NDI and the Editorial Boards of the Washington Post and NY Times, among others. He had a captive audience and he was able to make a strong case for change in US policy, warning that it must recognise the current state of affairs endangers the nation, the region and the security and stability of the entire free world. He emphasised in all meetings that the future for Africa lay in democracy and the rule of law. To a person, the theme of his interlocutors was that Kenya was seen as a crucial bellwether by Africa and the international community. Its prolonged crisis was alarming and needed to end quickly, it was too important to let fail. But the astonishing part was that all eyes were on Raila and what course of action he advocated to find a solution. I cannot report what Raila’s various interlocutors said in the meetings, all of which were confidential. But what was said by Ambassador Mark Bellamy, a pillar of the Washington establishment on Kenya and Africa, said at the CSIS event — attended by the cream of Kenya and Africa experts — captured the essence of how many in the US capital perceived our crisis. “Kenya is in political disarray. A sizeable portion of Kenyans doesn’t accept the legitimacy of the 26 Oct election and a third election does not offer a way out of this crisis. ‘Moving on’, as some demand, could make the problem worse. Kenyans have shown that they do not accept authoritarianism or strongman rule prevailing in many parts of Africa.” He concluded by adding that “there is no answer to the current crisis without the strong imprint of Raila Odinga.” From remarks by a number of those Raila held discussions with, there were two central events which accounted for this extraordinary change of views about Kenya’s political situation and Raila’s role in securing a solution. One was the very low turnout of the October 26 election. Even after the Supreme Court annulled the August 8 election for pervasive irregularities and illegalities, the establishment, both Kenyan and Western, quickly developed a narrative downplaying the severe critique of the IEBC by the Court and asserted the annulment was merely on technicalities and Uhuru had actually won. But that entire narrative was shattered by an abysmally low turnout for President Kenyatta in the rerun, after nearly 80 per cent had voted on August 8. Many recognised this had created a legitimacy problem for him and would create political instability for an extended period of time and undermine the economy. While there had been unhappiness in the US over Raila’s not participating in the October 26 election, it became clear that its conduct and outcome vindicated his decision to stay out. The second event that shattered the earlier narrative was the inability of the Supreme Court to meet for its crucial hearing on the legality of the October 26 election, following the shooting of driver of DCJ Philomena Mwilu. Supreme Courts are hallowed institutions in the West; intimidating them into not meeting is unheard of in any democratic nation. So with Uhuru continuing to stumble at every turn, there was intense interest at meetings Raila had in knowing more about the National Resistance Movement and the People’s Assembly for overcoming Kenya’s multiple crises. Some worried that the Assembly was unconstitutional and that the resistance could turn violent. Raila cited chapter and verse to assure officials that the Assembly and the referendum-led Constitutional amendments were lawful. And highlighting his repeated call to his supporters for peaceful change, Raila explained that such resistance in a thoroughly undemocratic society actually kept people together and peaceful by giving them hope that change was possible. It is my own strong conviction that it is Raila and the hope for change he embodies, as well as the peaceful protests, that are holding this country together amidst a crisis so severe that many are openly seeking secession — a point Raila made repeatedly. He affirmed his own strong belief in a united Kenya but pointed out that it is headed for disaster unless it changes course quickly. As for another election, if the Supreme Court orders one next week, Raila said the IEBC was incapable of holding a credible election without major changes. He thought such changes, as well the need to heal national divisions before the election, would require between 90 and 180 days. Raila’s defense of economic boycotts won over many skeptics, when he described the Rosa Parks Montgomery bus boycott and the boycotts of the civil rights movement, both of which brought about vast changes peacefully. Raila said the fundamental problem in Kenya was one of exclusion, citing the Boston Tea Party as an example where people felt taxation without representation (or exclusion) was unacceptable. Kenya had 44 ethnic communities but all the Presidents in the 55 years since independence had come from only two of them, and Jubilee’s declared plan was for those two communities to provide Presidents till at least 2032.