Kandara MP Alice Wahome wants a petition filed against her election struck out on grounds the petitioner failed to serve her. Through her lawyer Elisha Ongoya, Wahome said she had to get the petition documents from the IEBC. “My client only learnt about the petition through a special issue of the Kenya Gazette notice published on September 15 for all the election petitions in the country,” Ongoya told Justice Hatari Waweru. Ongoya told the court the petitioner dropped off the documents at the MP’s law firm and gave it to someone who is not authorised to receive it on her behalf. He said the petition lacks merit and should be dismissed because she ought to have been served by September 20. Ongoya said the petitioner should have served the MP directly or through an advertisement as required by law. The petition was filed by Sarah Wambui, a Kandara voter who wants Wahome’s election nullified and the MP barred from participating in future elections. Wambui accused the Wahome of committing electoral offences before and during the election. She wants the court to either order a recount of votes, call a repeat election or declare Wahome’s rival Phillip Njuguna the winner. Wahome garnered 48,925 votes against Njuguna’s  31, 784. The petitioner’s lawyer Ndegwa Njiru told the court the petition seeks to find out the truth and get justice. He said striking it out would deny the petitioner her right to establish the truth. A ruling on Wahome’s application to have the petition dismissed will be delivered on November 24. The petition is the only one filed against an elected leader in the county. On October 27, a video surfaced of a fracas between Wahome and a returning officer over changes to Form 34B for the constituency following the repeat presidential election. The video shows Wahome and returning officer Martin Malonza  pushing and pulling after he allegedly refused to let Wahome and her agents sign the form. “I was 10 minutes away from the centre when my agents called, alerting me that Malonza had refused to let them sign...” Wahome said.        