Organisers of the just-ended 17th
edition of the Lamu Cultural Festival found
themselves in trouble following an incident where a Tanzania-based music troupe who had been invited to perform on
Saturday night breached the cultural taste of the festival by dancing overly
explicitly, leaving many embarrassed. The festival came to a close on Sunday. Those who had turned up to witness
the dance including children, elders, religious leaders and invited dignitaries
had to hide their faces as dancers and singers of the The Offside
Trick troupe left little to
imagination. One of the women dancers, particularly irked the observers by letting her hair loose and showing too much
skin. This is contrary to the Islamic religious belief. Most of Lamu residents are Muslims. Event organisers and area
leaders had to literally walk to the podium, switch off the microphones
and forcibly drag the dancers and singers from the stage. Many of the attendees said the
troupe’s performance did not in any way reinforce the cultural aspect of the
festival. Observers said the explicit manner
in which members of the Offside Trick danced was not only embarrassing and
shameful, but also a direct disrespect and disregard to the general theme
and objective of the event. This is because they had earlier on been briefed about
the cultural event and asked to prepare accordingly. According to the organisers, the group
had been asked to only perform songs and dances that would go along with the
cultural theme. Several attempts and interventions to
have the group rectify their performances fell on deaf ears as they would
resume with the explicit dancing each time they were allowed back on stage. The night ended prematurely
when the event organisers forced the dancers to leave the stage, although other invited dance and music groups were yet
to perform. Yesterday, Coast region deputy director for the National Museums of Kenya Athman
Hussein said the performance was in bad taste. He said there is need for any
artistes invited to the cultural festival to be vetted and approved by the Lamu
Cultural Festival Promotional group before being allowed to be part in the ceremony.  “That was a very embarrassing and regrettable
incident. Lamu is a historical town, which is also enlisted as a Unesco World
Heritage site. We must all strive to preserve the
Culture of Lamu. Such incidents are a danger to our culture,” Hussein said.  Coast Interfaith Council of
Clerics chairman Sheikh Mohamed Abdulkadir said what the group did, was not only a
breach of the cultural aspect, but also surpassed religious limits. “Majority of Lamu people are
Muslims, who observe strict religious believes, including dressing
and entertainment. We dance in a particular way in a
manner that respects religion unlike what the artistes did at Mkunguni on
Saturday night. The least they could do is apologise,” he said. The Lamu Cultural Promotional
Group officials have absolved themselves from any blame. They placed the blame squarely on the county government.  “We aren't responsible for what
happened. The artistes were invited and sponsored by the county government. We
however blame the artistes too since we understand they were to only perform
Taarab songs, but went way beyond the agreement. In fact, we expect the
county government to take action against them,” LCPG chair Ghalib Alwy said. Acting Lamu Trade executive Fahima Arafat said what happened at
Mkunguni wasn’t intentional. “We are equally disgusted and disappointed
by what The Offside Trick group did. People shouldn’t think we planned for
this to happen. That wasn’t part of the agreement we had with them,” Fahima said.  