A lion used to prowl about a field in which four oxen dwelt. Many a time he tried to attack them, but whenever he drew near they turned their tails to one another so that whichever way he approached them he was met by the horns of one of them. At last, however, they began quarreling among themselves, and each went off to a corner of the field. Then the lion attacked them one by one and soon made an end of all four. Kenya today is like the four oxen. Everything appears to be going wrong if we are not careful. The lion of anarchy and chaos is pushing us into a corner seeking to descend on us like a plague as we watch. We must therefore be careful how we treat the Supreme Court decision on the petition challenging the October 26 fresh presidential election. In other words, we must accept whatever decision the court makes for this country not to descend into chaos and anarchy as some want. This has been a very long election, with Kenyans going to the ballot twice to vote for President. The annulment of the August 8 election was by all standards based not on real grounds, as others and I have argued in our writings. Despite President Uhuru Kenyatta’s overwhelming win being overturned, he accepted the verdict and went back to the voters. The voters, those who were not blocked by the opposition, came out again and confirmed that he had actually won the election. Uhuru declared he will respect the court’s decision, even if the justices overturn his victory again. He was ready to go back to the people and seek a popular and legitimate mandate from the ballot and not by any other means. On the contrary, opposition leader Raila Odinga has insisted he will advocate an interim government for 60 days and 90 days to an illegitimate election, despite the court’s ruling. His lieutenants have gone around the country seeking to divide the country into two. Just last week, the opposition, through one of its MPs, prepared a Bill that seeks to have 40 of the 47 counties secede. We are not even sure what criterion was used to come up with the 40 versus seven counties. In addition, Siaya Senator James Orengo declared NASA would swear in NASA leader Raila Odinga as President if Uhuru is sworn once the Supreme Court confirms his October 26 victory. This is despite the Constitution being clear on who can be sworn in, how this should be done and who should preside over it. All this happened as the Supreme Court was receiving responses to the petition against Uhuru’s October 26 win. It is therefore clear that the NASA brigade has not been interested in the rule of law and is ready to subvert the Constitution. But Kenyans must unequivocally demand that Raila and NASA accept the Supreme Court ruling and go back to the drawing board and think about 2022. Kenyans cannot be in a suspended state of elections for years because losers are not ready to accept results. Kenya is bigger than any one person. For peace and prosperity to flourish we must abide by the decision of the courts and respect the Constitution. We cannot fight amongst ourselves like the four oxen that let the lion make an easy meal out of them. After this extended election period, Kenyans need a moment to reflect and unite the country. Kenya needs to heal and will not do so as long as we continue to pull in different directions. We must unite to avoid being devoured by the lion of chaos and anarchy because we are spending more time arguing amongst ourselves. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda