Five Kenyan sailors detained in Indonesia for
illegal entry have finally been released and are expected home today. Diego Rafiki, the Burundian whose ship the five were in,
finally paid their Sh505,000 fine after being detained by the Indonesian
immigration authorities for more than two weeks. Captain Mzee Khamis, Mapinga Mwalimu, Yusuf Omar, Tela Juma and Aggrey Diedi were finally released after owner of their ship paid their fine. They had been fined Sh505,000. Diego Rafiki, the Burundian owner of the ship, had disowned the sailors. They failed to raise the fine and had been detained for two weeks. The five took an Emirates
Airline flight yesterday at 4.45am Indonesian time. They were expected to fly to Dubai where they would change to a Kenya Airways flight bound for Nairobi. They are expected to arrive in Nairobi at 11am, before
taking another flight to Mombasa at 1pm.   The sailors are expected to be reunited with their families at about 2pm, after almost two years. Betty Makena told the Star on phone yesterday that the sailors had their passports released on Wednesday. Makena is the International Transport Workers Federation inspection
officer in charge of East Africa. "Rafiki went to the Indonesian immigration authorities on Tuesday and secured the release of the sailors' passports," Makena said. According to Makena, arrangements are in place to
receive the sailors at the Moi International Airport in Mombasa. Kenya Maritime Authority officials are those those expected to receive the sailors at the airport. KMA ensured that the sailors stayed
in decent places and had food during their detention in Indonesia. Rafiki had stopped feeding and accommodating them.  The five were among sailors from Kenya and Congo
who had in January 2016, gone to obtain Rafiki’s ship - MV Queen Bihanga - from the
Philippines. Rafiki bought the ship from China and wanted it brought
to Mombasa. The ship developed mechanical problems in Malaysia
and Indonesia before it was detained while at the Labuan Port in Jarkata. The sailors’ passports were confiscated in Jarkata. Authorities said they had
no entry stamps. It is not clear whether Rafiki has
paid the sailors some Sh4.1 million they claim he owes them
in accumulated wages for the over 21 months they spent on his mission. Two weeks ago, the
businessman denied the claim. He accused the sailors of abandoning his ship when they went to the Kenyan consulate in Jarkata, without his
authority.          