Nairobi MCAs on Wednesday approved the names of CEC nominees forwarded by Governor Mike Sonko. This was amid concerns the list was approved despite the weakness exhibited by some of the candidates during vetting. The Appointments Committee, in its recommendations, said the lot met the constitutional and statutory requirements for the job. They said none of the CEC nominees presented a conflict of interest and have never been charged in the court of law. "All the nominees satisfy the requirements of Chapter 6 of the
Constitution of Kenya on leadership and integrity," reads the report.
 They are Star Editor-In-Chief Charles
Kerich (ICT), Public Service Board vice chairperson Vesca Kangogo
(Finance), former National Housing Corporation MD Peter Njuguna (Lands),
Nairobi Safari Club MD Allan Igambi (Tourism).
 Others are flight attendant Emmah Muthoni
(Environment), County Service Delivery Unit director Danvas Makori
(Agriculture), Elimu Yetu Coalition director Janet Ouko (Education) and former
Machakos Tourism executive Larry Wambua (Devolution), Mohamed Dagane
(Transport), and Biopharma MD Hitan Majevda (Health). The vetting team said Sonko observed the two-thirds gender rule, ethnic and
regional balance in naming the seven men and three women for the hobs. "Without CECs, nothing can go on in this county. That is why we
need to approve this list so that things can move," Majority Leader Abdi Guyo
said. During the vetting, some nominees had difficulties answering
questions after they were taken to task to explain how they would perform their work
if appointed.  An outstanding case was that of Environment CEC nominee Muthoni. The 34-year-old flight attendant could
not, for instance, define riparian land, or state what EIA (Environmental
Impact Assessment) stands for. Transport nominee Dagan also had a hard time convincing the
committee how he ended up in a university in Uganda, despite having obtained C-
in KCSE.  He also found it difficult to provide concrete solutions to
traffic congestion in the city. The nominees will be sworn-in on Thursday. Read: Sonko gets his way as vetting panel wants all CECs approved 