It was an interview that was never to be.  Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru's life yesterday was snuffed out on his way to Nairobi for a talk show with a vernacular
radio station and TV. His Mercedes Benz got a tyre burst at Kabati, on the Thika-Muranga highway, and the driver lost control, hitting a guard rail.   Witnesses said Gakuru and his
driver Samuel
Kinyanjui were trapped in the car for close to an hour before
they were pulled out. Gakuru was allegedly seated on the front passenger seat. The guard rails drove through the left side of the car. “Members of the public helped in rescuing the
occupants of the car. The governor was the last one to be rescued from the
wreckage because he had been pressed by the rails,” Murang’a county commissioner John Elung’ata said. The other occupants were Gakuru's bodyguard Ahmed Abdi and his personal assistant Albert Kaguru.  Gakuru was rushed to Thika Level 5 Hospital, where he died while receiving emergency treatment as the hospital prepared to airlift him to Nairobi.  Elung’ata said the accident happened at 6.45am between
Kabati and Makenji.  The governor’s body was taken to the Lee Funeral Home, Nairobi. Kaguru and Abdi are admitted at Nairobi Hospital. The driver sustained minor injuries.  Witnesses
said Kinyanjui got out of the wreckage and tried to
rescue Gakuru. “We heard a thud and screams from locals who were
heading to their workplaces and rushed at the scene to help rescue the occupants.
The governor was trapped and we had to use power saws to cut the rails,” said
a witness.  The PA’s right hand and leg were broken. Police
sent back to the scene to look for his wrist with the help of
locals. Abdi's legs were injured.  Murang’a county commander Naomi Ichami said the stretch between Makenji and Kabati is slippery, especially when it rains,
and warned motorists to be cautious. The left back tyre that burst and got disentangled and other car parts, including seats,
were scattered at the scene. Also a tie believed to belong to one of the occupants as well as shoes. The wreckage was towed to Kabati police station.