We are women from different communities of Kenya, but as with all women, we are united in our everyday concerns and fears for our country. As the election environment in Kenya started to de-escalate, we began gathering as a group to discuss the current political crisis — importantly, how to marry peace and justice and channel our anger. We are angry that peace and justice are disregarded in these times, so much so that even the discussion of peace has been politicised. Our politicians are prioritising their own interest over the safety, well-being, and future of all of us as Kenyan citizens. As women and peacebuilders, we know that we are often disregarded until the violence is over, when we mourn, organise funerals and pick up the pieces in our communities. Right now, peacebuilders and women are sidelined in conversations among power players and the media as we watch our national values disrespected, numerous lives lost, property destroyed and our unity eroded day after day. Our news and social media channels are chock-full of analysts and endless forecasters, yet no one is stepping back to help Kenyans see the future of what this really holds for us. We are lost in the details, and consumed by each new development, which drives us further apart ,rather than bringing us together as Kenyans. Let us listen to the voices of our mothers, sisters and daughters in this moment of upheaval. We must collectively appeal to each and every citizen to ensure non-violence and let justice prevail through our minds and our voices, not our hands. This is not a passive request, through the White Ribbon Campaign we are asking all women to use our unique skills as peacebuilders to establish ourselves as full and equal partners in the promotion of a nonviolent society. We have come together, representing all tribes, cultures and religions in Kenya, to be the voice of reason. As women, we must insert ourselves in conversations to find ,solutions to the current quagmire that Kenyans find themselves in. This is not an effort to embrace every five years, but an ongoing push to find peaceful and participatory ways of addressing ethnic tensions, marginalisation and economic rights now and in the years ahead. We must push our circles and our broader community against uttering statements and remarks that are divisive, abusive and disrespectful, and restore respectful language in relationships with each other. We have a common language; we must find our way back to it. We are all exhausted from this political uncertainty, but we must push forward. Put on a white ribbon or scarf. Do what you can personally to become active in peacebuilding activities in your community. Push your social networks to become more active. Our families and the future of the country are in all our hands.