The United States has denied reports that ambassador Robert Godec has been recalled from Kenya. US Embassy spokesperson Fiona Evans said the envoy will not leave Kenya anytime soon. "Godec's term did not end in July. He has been the US ambassador to Kenya since January 2013 and remains ambassador today." There were reports that his term expired in July and was extended following the polls. Sources at the embassy said it is the norm for US envoys to stay in their countries during an election period until all issues raised are addressed. Read: Godec to remain in office, as other US envoys resign But Evans did not give details of when Godec is expected to stop serving US interests in Kenya, saying he is a career diplomat. "Ambassador Godec, like all US ambassadors, serves at the pleasure of the President of the United States," she added in an interview on Wednesday. "No one has been proposed to replace him as ambassador." Donald Trump is the current US President. Godec was nominated by former President Barrack Obama on September 19, 2012, and was sworn-in as Kenya's Ambassador by ex-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on January 16, 2013.  During the August 8 and October 26 elections, NASA leaders accused him of working closely with the Jubilee government "to maintain the status quo". The coalition, in one of its press briefings, expressed concerns of Godec's perceived partiality in dealing with electoral matters. On many occasions, he maintained the US's stance that they would accept nothing short of a peaceful poll.  Godec was the first top official to congratulate President Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election after the August 8 general election. Also read: US happy with IEBC's election role, wants democracy protected - Godec NASA filed a successful petition at the Supreme Court which declared Uhuru's re-election null, void and invalid following illegalities and irregularities. Owing to the development, Godec was seen as siding with IEBC after the National Super Alliance demanded reforms at the electoral agency. The ambassador said IEBC had met most NASA's demands but the Opposition later pulled out of the race and has refused to recognise Uhuru's re-election. In his affidavit, which was expunged from the petition filed by Njonjo Mue and Khelef Khalifa, principal Musalia Mudavadi averred that the ambassador acted as a public relations officer of IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati.  Read: NASA asks Supreme Court to punish IEBC, Uhuru for October 26 poll mess Also read: KOT roast Godec, say Kenyans don't meddle with US elections Click here for the latest political news