A row has erupted in NASA after the coalition presented names of MPs to serve in crucial house leadership positions on Wednesday. MPs from the Coast region have claimed the list naming John Mbadi Minority Leader was not approved by the coalition's parliamentary group. The Suba South legislator was named alongside Suna East MP Junet Mohamed who will be the whip, appointments the legislators say is unacceptable. More on this: ODM's Mbadi, Junet take Minority Leader, Whip in new House list The leaders said party members were not consulted before the names were submitted to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for approval. They argued that both Mbadi and Junet are from Raila Odinga's ODM party. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa of Ford Kenya will be Junet's deputy. The list was delayed following wrangles among ODM, Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya on how to share the slots.  NASA is yet to submit its list of members nominated to the various assembly committee, including the crucial Public Accounts and Public Investment Committees. More than 20 MPs, led by Coast Parliamentary Group chairman Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) and Mishi Mboko (Likoni), addressed a press conference at Parliament Buildings soon after the list was presented. The legislators said they will not recognise the proposed names until NASA affiliate parties agree. The team accused unnamed people within ODM of "manufacturing the minutes appointing Mbadi, Junet, Wamalwa, and Robert Mbui (Deputy Minority Leader). "There is no regional and gender balance in this list. We had requested Raila to give us some slots but unfortunately, we have not been considered. If no changes will be made, we will agree to be used," Dori said. He vowed to paralyse NASA's parliamentary activities and said they will not submit their names for nominations to various House committees. He accused ODM of lacking internal democracy. "We are doing a business of not being recognised . We are not valued in NASA and if we are not recognised, we will resist them," he said. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi (Wiper) said NASA does not belong to one community and that they will not take instructions from principals Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) unless the list is recalled. "NASA does not belong to one person or one tribe. As he (Raila) has said he does not recognose Uhuru Kenyatta as President ,we will also not recognise the list." Click here for the latest political news