Murang'a MCAs have accused assembly clerk Chris Kinyanjui of frustrating them, forcing their push for his removal from the August House. They noted on Wednesday that they did not attempt to evict him simple because of allowances. On Monday, Murang’a East OCPD Johnstone Limo led officers in ejecting the MCAs from the clerk’s office and out of the assembly. Read: Kicks, blows as Murang'a MCAs attempt to evict county clerk Led by deputy speaker Samuel Kihurunjo, the MCAs said they rebelled because Kinyanjui allegedly colluded with speaker Nduati Kariuki to mismanage the assembly. The MCAs accused the clerk of misleading the public by saying they were fighting him for allowances and failure to expose problems in the assembly. Kihurunjo said they asked for the formation of an internal audit committee to oversee operations but that the clerk objected. “The clerk has been going out of the country frequently. We want to know what money he is using," he said. Ruchu MCA Chege Mwangi complained that Kinyanjui has not established a timetable for sessions and that they have had only five so far. The ward representatives also accused the clerk of interfering with their well-being in the assembly since their swearing-in three months ago. "The problems we have been having in the assembly since our swearing-in were caused by the clerk," said a nominated MCA, who did not want to be named. Loans and mortgages The MCAs further said the assembly has been deducting money from their salaries for mortgages and car loans yet they have not yet received the loans. "We are entitled to Sh2 million car loans and Sh3 million mortgages but the clerk requested members to apply for deductions within their first salary month to ease the burden of payment since it is distributed over 60 months. They religiously complied," said the anonymous source. "Most of the interested members' have already identified the cars and houses and presented logbooks and title deeds to relevant offices for processing. But three months since members started remitting deductions, they are yet to receive the loans. Most are actually earning less than Sh10,000 yet they have to take care of themselves and their families." The members further protested the "meagre allowances" they were paid during KICOSCA games in Machakos last week. They also accused Kinyanjui of reducing their allowances and giving them what they termed substandard uniforms for the games. "Muranga was the joke of the day with cheap sweat jackets and substandard boots to play in different entries," the legislator said. "We returned the attire and demanded accountability on how procurement was done and the amount spent. Romour has it that Sh6 million was spent." The politicians have called for a probe into an insurance scheme for members which they say is not clear and does not cover their medical needs as had been stipulated. "According to the SRC, we are supposed to get Sh3 million for inpatient care, Sh200,000 for outpatient, Sh50,000 for dental and optical care and Sh150,000 for maternity. But just the other day, a member was admitted at Nairobi Hospital yet Britam could only pay Sh300,000 of the Sh1.2 million bill," the member said. MCAs concerns 'genuine' Majority leader Eric Kamande condemned the MCAs action noting they have procedures for solving problems. He said he had been pushing for the leaders to solve the issue amicably. Kamande said though some of the issues they raised were genuine, they should have waited for relevant committees to hold discussions. "The MCAs have raised genuine issues. We are working on solving this without pushing anyone because the county is for us all and we must serve the people first," he said. “I had already communicated with the chair of the youth and sports committee to solve the issues. I was shocked to hear that they stormed the clerk’s office demanding answers." Kamande said the committee was to meet today. He explained that the assembly could not plan proper training before the MCAs' induction due to financial constraints. "But plans have been put in place to ensure the MCAs are well trained for their respective committees." Kamande also raised concerns that the MCAs are being incited by a few members who have been eyeing some positions in the assembly. “They have now resorted to giving malicious information against some members in a bid to get them out of their positions,” he claimed. The claim is that some MCAs want to take over the positions of the leader of majority and chief whip, and have committees reconstituted. Sources in the assembly also indicated plans to impeach the speaker who is out of the country on a personal trip. The clerk defended himself saying the MCAs signed documents authorising deductions for the mortgages to help them repay their loans in time. Kinyanjui has insisted they violated standing orders and that they will be punished for raiding his office. He said he filed a case with the powers and privileges committee chaired by the speaker. Click here for the latest political news  