The Labour ministry yesterday barred Knut from replacing embattled chairman Mudzo Nzili and a second official, further deepening the leadership standoff rocking the teachers’ union. Weighing in on the stalemate, the labour commissioner warned Knut against sending Nzili and vice chairman Samson Kaguma packing in next month’s annual delegates’ conference. In a letter signed by Hellen Apiyo on behalf of the labour commissioner, the ministry pointed out that Nzili and Kaguma raised pertinent objections that they were yet to hit 60 years - the retirement age. “It would be unlawful to proceed with the planned by-elections scheduled for December 14, as the positions are not yet vacant,” the letter read. But an official, who attended yesterday’s Knut meeting, told the Star in confidence that Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion vowed to move to court to challenge the Labour ministry’s decision. “He is armed with documents proving that Nzili is in office irregularly. One is supposed to leave after reaching 59.6 years. Nzili has done that,” the source said. Sossion sent Nzili on terminal leave, pending his retirement next year and named Wycliffe Omucheyi acting chairman. The move sparked a vicious war of words between Sossion and Nzili that ignited the Jubilee and NASA political fights for the control of the union. Sossion downplayed the wrangles. “There is no fighting. Did you see us fight? We’ll talk to you at an appropriate time. We’re at the Coast for four days,” he said. Nzili will retire on May 16 next year, while Kaguma, his deputy, will go home on April 2 next next year. A NEC meeting ended in disarray in Mombasa yesterday after members were sharply divided on the future of the two officials. The meeting was convened to resolve disputes and prepare for the ADC slated for December 13-14. Efforts by the 44-member NEC to fix the differences hit a dead end after officials allied to Nzili asked Sossion to step down as secretary general given that he is a nominated MP. Delegates from the Rift Valley, Central and Coast ganged up against Sossion, throwing the meeting into disarray amid a walkout by a faction aligned to the embattled chairman. Yesterday, Knut Coast wing spokesman Tom Kitu told reporters that Sossion will be ousted “immediately” over gross misconduct. “If that immediately is not understood in his dictionary, we’ll let him read that dictionary and know what it means,” he said.      