There is a Kalenjin proverb that goes, “Kile boinet, ‘machube ne kabara, achube ne kang’eta’ ” Sorry for the mouthful but it roughly translates, “The antelope said, ‘I will not curse whoever killed me, I will curse whoever got me out of my hiding.’ ”  If you were British, you would have said, let sleeping dogs lie, and rightly so. Sometimes we get to start things whose consequences we cannot foresee, or are blinded to by our passions of the moment. And we have all at one point or another started something without the benefit of experience and it has led to disastrous outcomes.   THE CASE FOR SECESSION  After the Supreme Court upheld the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, there is now a renewed drive by the NASA-leaning secessionists determined to split the country and create the so-called People’s Republic of Kenya (PROK) and leave out what they propose to call the remainder of Kenya as the Central Republic of Kenya or (CROK). Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma has drafted a secession Bill and presented it to the IEBC, in which he seeks a referendum to carve up Kenya’s 47 counties into two countries – the PROK having 40 counties while the remaining seven Gema counties will form the CROK. Citing the usual mantra of marginalisation and exclusion, the tenor of his argument is really the inability of Raila Odinga to become Kenya’s President, and so the need to carve it up for a better chance to lead a nation.    A BIG JOKE Kaluma has created what probably amounts to the biggest joke in present-day Kenya. Even with the exclusion of the Gema communities, there are no guarantees that the remaining part of Kenya will give Raila the presidency in a democratic environment. In fact, Ruto might still beat him for the presidency of the PROK if the communities remain as they are. Kaluma is not looking at the real reasons behind Raila’s failure at the polls.  There are certain uncomfortable truths about his self-made failures. In my best estimation, Raila is the victim of his own blunders and inability to excite confidence across the board. At one time he had it all. He had managed to rally the 2005 disgruntlement over President Mwai Kibaki’s misrule into a massive advantage for him. The day he chose the path of divisiveness was his undoing.  And, as far as I am concerned, Baba has not changed today and is not about to change even if the PROK is declared. When he accepted to become Prime Minister (against the better advice of those close to him), he had done himself in.  While at that position, he chose the path of antagonism and divisive politics and his base began to disintegrate in his very sight.    NYAMGONDHO WUOD OBARE Raila reminds me of a story I read as a child, the Legend of Nyamgondho wuod Obare. The story has many different versions but it goes basically like this: There was once a man named Nyamgondho, a penurious piscator on the vast lough named Sango. One day, he set out his nets to find his food. He suddenly felt something on his nets and thinking he had a good catch, he pulled out of the water what turned out to be a haggish old woman.  Rather befuddled by the unusual find, she asked him to take her with him and make her his wife. With nothing to lose, he agreed and she emerged from the waters and along with her came cows, lots of them. This made Nyamgondho instantly wealthy. So wealthy he was that he never needed to fish again. He now built several huts and married several women.  One day, he drunk himself silly and beat up his lake wife, hurling insults at her. The old hag decided to return to the water and with her went all the cattle that Nyamgondho had come to regard as his own. Overnight, he was left with nothing.   INTERNALLY DISPLACED FOR RAILA In 2007, Raila had it all. I remember placing two large posters of Raila in my Moi Avenue office and enthusiastically spread the prospect of his presidency to whoever would listen. I voted for him together with my extended family and friends. However, at the outbreak of the post-election violence early the following year, I was forced to flee from my Nairobi home with my family and sought refuge at a relative’s who lived in New Muthaiga.  A Kikuyu neighbour had whispered to me that Mungiki were coming to avenge the killings going on in the Rift Valley and that I should run if I wanted to live. With young children, I wouldn’t take chances. I called another Kalenjin neighbour only to find he had gone upcountry but had left his wife and kids behind. He begged me to find safety for them. Bundling his family and mine into my car, we fled to New Muthaiga only to find that the relative had gone upcountry to vote and had locked everywhere except the servants’ quarters. They had planned to travel back but the roads were blocked. The servants in their kindness took us into their tiny abode and so we became internally displaced persons, remaining there until the situation normalised. That was for about a month.  As fate would have it, Raila became Prime Minister. The premiership turned out to be the perfect rope with which he hanged himself politically. By the end of the following year, after a series of strategic blunders, he had single-handedly eroded his most enthusiastic base. And so going to the elections in 2013, Nyamgondho had lost all his cows including his most productive wife, William Ruto.   LOSING THE QUEEN In many ways, Ruto was like the queen in a game of Chess. After losing it, Raila had given all the strategic advantages to his opponent and there was no recovery from it. Now I perfectly understand those who have tuned their mind to see Raila as President and what they must be feeling at this time. It is what I felt in 2007. Thereafter, I promised myself never to passionately support whichever politician, particularly after the disastrous post-election violence of that year. While sleeping in my car at New Muthaiga and enduring the biting cold, I still nursed the prospect of a Raila presidency. I, therefore, understand Kaluma’s bid in trying to make him President, if only of a portion of the loaf called Kenya.    HOW NOT TO ACHIEVE SECESSION There is no way, however, that Secession can be achieved through legal means since the chances are about the same as a camel going through the eye of a needle.  It will be a tall order for Kaluma to get 233 MPs to vote for it (when Jubilee has over 200 in their hold). He would also need 45 out of the 67 senators on top of the numbers in the National Assembly. Jubilee is also calling the shots in the Senate. If, however, the gods really smile on him and both Houses pass the Kaluma Bill, then we shall have it signed into Law by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who will also be signing his resignation letter. Very few Presidents have freely done such a thing under the Sun. However, Kaluma’s saving grace may be in raising one million signatures but that again could get frustrated by the IEBC as happened the last time with the Okoa Kenya referendum. Even if the IEBC would verify the signatures and agree to them, then the Kaluma Bill must be discussed and passed in a majority of the 47 county assemblies. Speaking for Nandi county, I think it will not pass there. I am not sure about other places. If by chance 24 county assemblies pass it, then it will be taken to Kenyans for a referendum. We will have to pray that the IEBC will not bungle it like they did the August 8 election. We will now have the CROK and the PROK. But how practical are the two republics?   SHARING THE LOSSES First, we must commend the Jubilee government for taking our national debt from slightly over Sh1 trillion in 2013 to about Sh4 trillion presently. It will mean that the CROK and the PROK must inherit the proportional share of the national debt. Besides, there is no agreement on such things as the capital of the PROK or the CROK, there is no Constitution or system of governance, a devolution mechanism, tax collection, security system, including recruiting and training an army and the police service. We have not been shown what currency will be used in the PROK (which I assume my native Nandi will be a part of), or what policies will be in place to speed up development. Many Kenyans have moved from their area of nativity or their ancestral land to other lands in search of opportunities.  Kaluma’s Bill is, therefore, shrinkage of those opportunities. Suddenly, the thousands of Luhya or Luo workers in Thika’s pineapple estates will be considered foreign workers, requiring a visa and work permit. The people of Western Kenya have greatly benefited from migratory labour. In fact, in the so-called PROK, there will still be class inequalities, unemployment, lack of inclusion and poor distribution of resources. There will emerge a class of corrupt people and rent-seeking cartels who will demand more than their fair share.    HISTORICAL BOUNDARIES  I, however, have a hunch that the people of Nandi will not want to be a part of the PROK. This will be a big problem for them since they will first want certain historical injustices settled before they move to the CROK. One of them is the resolution of the Soiin Question. The Nandi and the Kipsigis have a historical claim to parts of what is now Kisumu county, known as today as the Nyando Valley, having been thrown out by the British in 1906 to protect the railway. Such places include Chemelil, the ancient place where the Kamelilo section of the Nandi held their dances. Muhoroni comes from the Nandi word Morongyo, meaning the place of tough grass. Even the name Kavirondo comes from Kapkirondo (place of the bulrushes meaning the lake shores) and of course, you should know Kisumu is from the word ‘Kesumo’ meaning a place of barter.    VIOLENT REMOVAL  Charles Hobley negotiated with the Nandi living in the valley in 1899 to allow for the railway to pass through. Maps made in 1896 by the railway engineer CS Vandeleur now held at the University of Cambridge are a clear manifestation of the extent of the old Nandi lebensraum. This also perfectly vindicates their presence in the Nyando Valley, which they called Soiin. Of course in their departure from the valley starting February 1906, the British began to settle the land. I do not need to mention that thousands of Nandis were killed by the British in the removal from this very same land. Tens of thousands of their cattle, sheep and goats were rounded up and auctioned by Thomas Wood in Naivasha to pay for the removal.   MOVING FROM KAKAMEGA The Nandi also once lived on huge swathes of what is now Kakamega county and even left their names there, which are still in use to this day. As late as 1982, Mzee Samson araap Yego of the Kapchebwai family lived in Tande, which was part of Kabras division. Chebwai, which is just after Malava township, was their ancient seat and was where his great ancestors lived and died. Mzee Yego lives today in Kurgung in Northern Nandi, having felt unsafe in Tande as the Nandi left for the highlands.    POST-INDEPENDENCE DEALS At Independence, the administrative boundaries were redrawn to give that portion of the Nyando to Luo Nyanza, thanks to Jaramogi Odinga’s foresight or the lack of the same from the Kalenjin leaders.  Certain Kalenjin communities had also been placed as a part of Luo Nyanza – including the Terik then known as the Nyang’ori, but managed to move back to Nandi county after Independence. Conversely, there are post-Independence deals such as those made between Jean-Marie Seroney to allow the Luo to move to parts of Southern Nandi after the massive flooding in 1961.  Kipsigis MP Taaita Towett also cut similar deals with the Abagusii, creating the settlement schemes in Sotik just after Chebilat. I know many Kipsigis who were born on the European farms on that part of Sotik. There is also the claim by the Maasai to large parts of this country and which may be a part of the CROK. Everyone understands the Maasai were duped by British treachery in 1904 and again in 1911 and lost a landmark case in London, where they had gone to sue the British in 1915 about their land. Today, that land is in the occupancy of just about every Kenyan here. How then will Kaluma answer all these questions?  Perhaps it would just be better to let sleeping dogs lie. 