
Kenya's security
is increasingly deteriorating, the latest Mo Ibrahim Index report shows. 
The
Ibrahim Index of African Governance report for 2017 released on the
foundation's website measures and monitors
governance performance in the 54 African countries. 
In
the African countries ranking, Kenya is position 38 with a 72.1per cent
score on national security. Botswana, Cabo Verde, Mauritius and the
Seychelles tie at position one with 100 per cent score. It is followed by
Somalia at position 53 with 21 per cent and the Central Africa Republic
ending the third worst countries category with 31 points. 
On
the East African front, Tanzania has the best ranking at position 11
in the continent with a score of 91.1 per cent, making it the best in
the region. It is followed by Uganda, which ranks at position 25 in the
continents ranking with 88 points.  Kenya comes third followed by
Rwanda, the DRC, whereas Burundi is the worst. 
“However,
increasing decline in the national security keeps safety and rule of law
on a downward trajectory. In 2007, 43
countries registered the best possible scores in Government
Involvement in Armed Conflict. In 2016, this number has fallen to
just 18,” the report says. 
On
accountability, Kenya is ranked position 17 with 43 per cent score in the
continent.  Rwanda takes the lead in Africa for running the
most accountable government with 72 per cent score. It is followed by
Mauritius at positions two.   Somalia is ranked the worst at
position 54 with 1.6 per cent score. 
For the rule of law, Kenya stands at position 16, whereas South Africa
takes position one. It is followed by Zambia, as Somalia is rated
last. 
While
the 40 countries improved in overall governance in the last 10
years, the report says over half have either slackening progress
or positive trends, showing signs of reversing.  Meanwhile, eight of the 12 countries that
register decline in overall governance in the last decade show no
signs of turning things around, decreasing at an even faster rate in the last five years, the report shows. 
On
the general score, Kenya scored higher than the African average of 50
per cent and higher than the regional average for East Africa of 45.2
per cent. The country scored 59 per cent in overall governance and was ranked at position 13 of the 54 countries. 
Mauritius
was ranked top with 81 per cent, followed by the Seychelles and Botswana.  
Somalia was worst performer. 
 
 
