First, allow me to congratulate the Executive Committee Members sworn in today and to wish you all the best as you carry out your responsibilities. Secondly, I wish to thank the County Assembly under the wise leadership of the Hon. Madam Speaker Beatrice Elachi, the membership of the Committee on Public Appointments, Majority and Minority leaders and all the Members of the County Assembly for approving all my CEC nominees. I have no doubt that I now have a competent and dedicated team that will push forward the development agenda and help the executive to implement policies that will improve on service delivery and to uplift the living standards of the people of this great city as enhanced in my manifesto. I urge you to exercise high levels of integrity as you undertake your responsibilities in accordance with the constitution. Ladies and Gentlemen, To take this county forward, we need able men and women to commit themselves to serving the great people of Nairobi. I welcome you to propel the vision of Nairobi as the city to invest, work and live in. As we congratulate you on your appointments to various portfolios, we must however face reality that the road ahead is challenging but also full of opportunities. We must sacrifice our time and energies to reclaim the green city in the sun. You are aware we inherited a city in a terrible state where corruption and cartels controlled a number of departments such as Revenue Department, Rates Department and legal Department. Ladies and Gentlemen, My pledge shall be to complete the constitution of my entire Government by finalizing the appointments of the County Chief Officers whom all shall coordinate activities of the various sectors to enhance service delivery. The people of Nairobi are looking forward to a better life under the devolved system of governance hence we only have one option for us, to succeed along the principles of Kaizen which is continuous improvement. Now is the time for everyone to work together to serve this great city and to do their best for the good of our people. The great expectations before us require exceptional commitment, focus, harmony, patriotism and peace. In conclusion, on my part, I pledge to respect and uphold the rule of law. I undertake to offer you the support you require in discharging your respective mandates in the office of the Executive Committee Members. Finally, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King “If you can’t fly, you run, if you can’t run, you walk; if you can’t walk you crawl, but every step you make is a step forward”. Nairobi forward ever and as per my political slogan, SASA TWENDE KAZI. God bless Nairobi County,God bless Kenya.    