The Health ministry has directed hospitals to administer a new drug in treating pneumonia in a bid to prevent deaths caused by the disease. Pneumonia is the biggest killer in the country. It killed 22,473 people in 2015, up from 21, 640 the previous year. The majority of those killed were children. The ministry now wants sick children to be given Amoxicillin tablets. The tablets are the most effective drug available. Although some health facilities have been administering the drug, the ministry now wants it to be the standard for all hospitals. A recent government survey on availability of essential medicine showed that close to 40 per cent of medical facilities do not have the drug. Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu is expected to launch the new pneumonia treatment guidelines on Monday.  “Pneumonia deaths can be prevented by proper nutrition, vaccination and early diagnosis and treatment using Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets,” head of Neonatal, Child and Adolescent Health Unit Warfa Osman said.  Most children in Kenya receive the PCV10 vaccine, which protects against 10 strains of the bacteria that cause pneumonia.  The 10 strains included in the vaccine account for at least 70 per cent of pneumonia cases globally.  However, many children in Kenya still die from the disease because they do not get the benefits of prevention, accurate diagnosis and treatment.  The World Health Organisation says one potentially fatal consequence of pneumonia is hypoxaemia, a condition that causes suffocation.  The children are left literally gasping for air, but many Kenyan health facilities often lack the oxygen that could save their lives.  “Almost all of these deaths are eminently preventable. Yet pneumonia fatalities are falling at a slower rate than any other major killer diseases. The disease accounts for most child deaths than diarrhea, malaria and measles combined,” a report released last week by Save The Children says. The NGO’s report is titled ‘Fighting for Breath’. It recommended prevention of pneumonia deaths through universal vaccination. 