Online retailer Jumia Kenya intends to test use of unmanned aerial vehicles commonly known as drones for delivery of goods during the first quarter of 2018. If successful, this will mean that fast-moving consumer goods, electronics, groceries and other products will be delivered using drones. The move comes only a month following the gazzetment of Remote Piloted Aircraft Systems Regulations 2017 by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authorities. The regulations are aimed at allowing Kenyans to use drones for filming and photography, sports, other private and commercial activities. “Next year in Q1, we will try. Realistically it’s not a viable solution at this point due to its complexity, however we will pilot it and see how it works out before adapting it in maybe two or three years to come,” Jumia managing director Sam Chappatte told the Star during the Jumia Black Friday concert. This will be the first time for drones to be used for commercial purposes in the country. However, according to Liquid Telecom chief technical officer Ben Roberts, its early adopters were tech entrepreneurs who developed applications giving solutions on how to use drones for aiding relief, carry out agricultural surveys and assist in e-commerce. It was later adopted by film makers and journalists in covering events across the country and image capturing including in the just-concluded general elections. While this pose as a disruption to the distribution sector, Chappatte outlined challenges such as existing and upcoming skyscrapers in the city, regulations, security and the high rate of mobility among Kenyans as part of the key challenges inhibiting drone adoption in the country. According to Roberts, by 2022, more Kenyan delivery companies will leverage on drones’ efficiency to deliver goods for their customers. “This would be a major boost for the industry curbing loses incurred from the damage of property in transit and cut time spent in traffic,” Robert states in a statement to the press. However he notes that drone delivery is unlikely to be a cost-effective method in some areas such as delivery of pizzas in Nairobi, where the cost of a motorcycle delivery is way affordable. If successful to adopt drone technology in the distribution of products around the country, Kenya will join a list of at least four other countries in Africa that use drones for service efficiency. These countries include Rwanda which uses drones to transfer drugs and blood to transfusion centres across its health facilities, Malawi- which uses drones to transfer HIV tests to and from around rural areas, and Morocco- which uses the drones to monitor illegal maritime authority. Other East Africa countries using the drones include Uganda which allows drone testing to be done in its airspace while Tanzania is intending to adopt the technology in January next year to help ease medical supplies.