At least 30 per cent of food produced in the world is destroyed by plant pests and diseases, latest survey by Food and Agriculture Organization has revealed. According to the study, crop production provides about 84 per cent of global food production and fibre needs, an indication of just how plant pests and diseases are negatively affecting the state of global food security. As of March 2017, FAO data identified 37 countries in the world whose population is facing hunger, 28 of them in Africa including Kenya. The World Bank estimates 20 million in Africa are facing starvation, 2.7 million in Kenya due to the prolonged drought since late last year. The organisation estimated farmers will have to produce 70 per cent more to feed the growing population in the world, while at the same time 30 per cent of it goes to waste through invasion of pests and diseases while still in the farms. ‘’Efforts should focus more on eradicating the plant pests and diseases in order to keep the produce increasing instead of producing more food due to population increase. We sustain the much we produce by ensuring the percentage of food crop loss reduces,’’ FAO report read in part. In order to lower the impact of pest and diseases on the global food security, FAO has proposed the uptake of sea foods to ease dependency on crop production. FAO is asking governments especially in hunger prone countries to harness fish produced by small scale farmers that accounts for 80 per cent of global sea food to mitigate the effects of low crop production. Such fish do a great deal to alleviate nutritional deficiencies and poverty in rural areas, and may yet become a big contributor to local food supplies in most developing countries. Even so, it emphasized the need for proper sea food packaging and preservation due to its perishable nature. “Technologies have evolved to make both industrial and consumer seafood packaging more efficient and reliable. Seafood is an extremely perishable food and should be handled with great care at all times to prevent the growth of microorganisms. Potential shelf life and quality of seafood deteriorates so rapidly if it is not handled and stored properly,” said FAO It explained that seafood microbial deterioration during packaging causes both quality and weight loss. Deterioration rate doubles with every 5.3 degrees Celsius increase in temperature and hence the quality and type of packaging has great importance in the sea foods industry.