Aden Duale wants the Controller of Budget to stop Nyanza counties from withdrawing Sh50 million for the People's Assembly course. The motion that has been passed in Siaya, Homa Bay and Vihiga counties seeks to annul President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory and protect devolution. It will be presented for debate in Kwale, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Lamu, Bungoma, and Kakamega counties from next Tuesday.  It is pending in Migori, Kisumu, Kisii, Nyamira, Turkana, Mombasa, Tan River and Wajir counties. Read: Pass People's Assembly motion quickly, Bungoma LSK tells MCAs In a letter seen by The Star on Thursday, the National Assembly majority leader asked Agnes Odhiambo to ensure the counties do not misuse funds by assigning them to the secession bid. "Caution all counties on the financing of such activities and vigilantly monitor the disbursement of funds to ensure cash flow and proposed expenditure are in line with the approved budget." Duale, who is Garissa Town MP, also said Odhiambo should create a work plan to ensure public funds are not withdrawn for activities to do with people's assemblies. "We await your kind assurance of this request," he said, noting openness and accountability are required in all financial matters and that public money should be used prudently and responsibly. "...the intended public funding flouts provisions of section 12 of the Public Finance Management Act with respect to management and control public finance," he added. What about money from fundraisers? Duale further said the Controller should oversee the implementation of budgets of the national and county governments by authorising withdrawals, even of the equalisation fund.  "Political activities ought to be financed from political parties which are funded from public funds," he said. "This provision supports not only the principles of public finance but also other constitutional obligations." The lawmaker noted NASA is yet to account for funds collected through fundraisers and mobile money platforms ahead of the October 26 re-rerun. On November 11, NASA summoned all county assembly speakers and majority leaders for a strategy meeting on the People's Assembly. The speakers from 20 counties are expected in Nairobi on Friday to be briefed about the new concept that is part of NASA's strategy to deny Jubilee's administration legitimacy. A pool of opposition lawyers and professionals, led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, and economist David Ndii will take them through the establishment of the assemblies. The assemblies were proposed by Ndii, a critic of Jubilee administration who kickstarted the debate with his "Kenya is a cruel marriage" clarion call. NASA has drafted a People’s Assemblies Bill and forwarded it to the counties that fall in opposition strongholds. In areas where the opposition lacks numbers, they will establish the assemblies directly without going through the county assemblies. More on this: Speakers, majority leaders to meet over People’s Assembly Earlier today, a group of Jubilee politicians said they will present a petition to the National Assembly for the dissolution of seven counties which passed the Bill supporting the People's assembly. The politicians are under the Council of Kenya Professionals. CPK chairman Ababu Namwamba said the move by various county assemblies to pass the  People's Assembly motion was illegal and outside the law. "The idea of forming people's assemblies is in capitalist economies and dangerous for the peace, stability and democracy of a nation," he sad. "It will also result in misuse of funds because those sitting in the assembly will be paid." More on this: Ababu plans petition for no funding to seven NASA counties