Three former Jubilee MPs from the Kisii region are in a frenetic campaign blitz to convince a number of leaders from the region to join the government. The ex-MPs are said to have held a series of meetings in Nairobi, where they have identified targeted leaders whom they are courting. They are well-oiled and facilitated by an operative from State House who happens to pay their bills at a high-end hotel where they have been holding sessions. Among those targeted in the wide plot to destabilise opposition leader Raila Odinga include Kisii Governor James Ongwae (pictured) and his Nyamira counterpart John Nyagarama. The two ODM governors have over the years avoided confrontational politics. *****  Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga is in Zanzibar, Tanzania, perhaps plotting his next political move after the Supreme Court upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection in the October 26 repeat presidential poll. Social media users were yesterday mesmerised by photos flooding the internet of the opposition leader in a rather a cozy position with a young lady. A lot has been said about the photos that have gone viral, with some posting that Raila was relaxing after a bruising political battle that has lasted one year, while others thought he was having a good time with the Spa expert. *****   RESIDENTS of Umoja Estate, Nairobi, are amazed at how a female sergeant at the Buruburu police station who usually patrols the area during the weekend has been a thorn in the flesh. Our mole tells Corridors the cop always harasses and arrests many residents on flimsy grounds. It is said the cop has been extorting money from them. Their attempts to complain to the National Police Service managerial hierarchy has been futile since her bosses have always been on her side. Now the helpless residents are appealing to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, the EACC and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority bosses to come to their rescue and take stern action against the rogue officer. *****  The counties advertised for positions of members of the County Executive Committees. Hundreds applied for positions, but most of those who applied now feel cheated. In Kisumu, some unsuccessful applicants want Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o to make public the list of shortlisted candidates who were interviewed by a firm that was hired by the county. They say Nyong’o was elected on the platform of honesty and accountability and should make the process of appointing his Cabinet open so it does not look like he is rewarding his cronies. The applications and interviews, the unsuccessful applicants say, could have just been PR exercises.