Kenya represents a bright spot in sub-Saharan Africa as an investment hub for domestic and foreign investors. Recent data on global economic activity and reputable global surveys have endorsed and reinforced this assertion. Kenya has always been committed to convert these analyses into reality. Accelerating private sector-led, sustainable economic growth constitutes the nuts and bolts that gel the economy together. Pursuing an inclusive model of growth that will provide more than 1.3 million new jobs annually, the government understands the need to create a conducive business environment for the private sector. The government has worked aggressively, over the past 48 months, to make Kenya an easy place to do business. Through a multi-institutional Business Environment Delivery Unit under the aegis of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, government agencies, Kenya Private Sector Alliance and World Bank Group/International Finance Bank, among others, we’ve undertaken numerous business reforms – the highest on the continent. Benchmarking on competitive global best practice, Kenya diagnosed its regulatory business environment and found the need to rid it of red tape, which hinders entrepreneurship and creativity. The reforms involved the re-engineering and remodelling of business processes, recommendation of new processes and following up on their implementation. The World Bank Group’s Doing Business 2018 Report places Kenya at position 80 out of 190 from 92 last year, a vindication of Kenya’s quest to create proficient and all-encompassing ethos for local and foreign enterprises growth. For two consecutive years ( 2016, 2017 reports), Kenya emerged as the third most reformed country, and in 2018 was the third best in sub-Saharan Africa. Out of the 11 indicators used to measure ease of doing business in a country, Kenya made six reforms. These included ease of starting a business by merging requisite formal procedures that small businesses need to comply with to register a business; reducing cost of construction permits through elimination of clearance fees from Nema and the National Construction Authority; enhancing electricity reliability through investment in distribution infrastructure and establishment of power restoration squads in case of outages; improving access to credit information through distribution of data from utilities; easier payment of taxes online through the iTax platform; and reduction of the time for import documentary compliance through implementation of a single window system. Over the years, we have eliminated the need for SMEs to have lawyers to register their companies; eliminated the need for company secretaries for small businesses as well as the need to hold AGMs for small companies. Our ambition is to be among the top 50 nations with favorable legislative or regulatory framework by 2020. Business reforms are intended to increase the level of efficiency for businesses, thereby increasing the level of local and foreign direct investments and creating jobs. FDI levels have risen from $390 million (Sh40.3 billion) in 2013 to nearly $2 billion (Sh207 billion) in 2016, making Kenya one of the most preferred investment destinations in Africa. Investments mean jobs. There exists an annexed body of knowledge from economists that back the correlation, though not causal, between business regulatory environments and a country’s economic fortune. For instance, economic experts have pointed to an existing parallel between GDP per capita, as measured by its natural logarithm, and the World Bank’s distance to frontier index - which helps assess the absolute level of regulatory performance over time of an economy. Fundamentally, a better business environment is good for all. Despite possessing comparative advantages, Kenya’s manufacturing base, mostly driven by entrepreneurs has not produced to its potential, and has been outpaced largely by the services sector but remains a key employer in the economy. Burdensome regulation has been one important culprit that we have dealt with and with more than 200 businesses registered daily, we are certainly on the rise. Eventually, the sequence of expected results is to trigger an increase in registration of Kenyan start-ups, ensuring their smooth operation and further investments and direct increase in sales/turnover or net income. All in all, the results are truly a harbinger of change and testimony that Government is keen to create an investor conducive environment for the private sector. The writer is the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives