Raila Odinga yesterday pledged President Uhuru Kenyatta’s “sham election must not stand” and announced a multi-pronged strategy to restore democracy, including economic boycotts. In his fi rst comments since Kenyatta was declared President elect on Monday, the NASA boss announced formation of a broad-based People’s Assembly, an kind of alternate Parliament. It will be in session until a “legitimate presidency is restored” through a fresh legitimate election. The Assembly will spearhead what NASA calls restoration of democracy, constitutionalism and the rule of law. Its task forces will look into wideranging and systemic governance weaknesses. Raila said the People’s Assembly will consist of elected leaders and the leadership of other sectors of society,in particular workers, civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups. The date and programme of the Assembly’s inaugural convention will be announced in the coming days. He said nothing about legal challenges to the presidential rerun, which others are expected to challenge on various grounds. The former Prime Minister elaborated on a National Resistance Movement responsible for implementing what the ODM leader called a “vigorous positive political action programme.” Part of the NRM mandate is implementing economic boycotts, peaceful processions, picketing and other legitimate protests.He did not specific products and services to be boycotted because they are linked with the government or benefit its supports.  The long list is said to range from dairy products, cereals and cooking oils to banks and telecom service providers. “If there is no justice for the people, let there be no peace for the government,” Raila declared. In an eight-page statement, Raila rubbished the October 26 polls as a charade and a meaningless exercise in which even IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati had no faith.  Raila said that six days before the presidential rerun, Chebukati told him he would either move to court for postponement of the election, or he would resign. “He [Chebukati] told us in his own words that he was not able to deliver credible elections. But he was going to meet with Uhuru on a Monday, or tell him as much, and then move to court, or he could resign,” Raila said before reading his action plan. In a terse statement, Raila said Uhuru’s re-election is a “coronation” that makes a complete mockery of elections and might mark the end of the ballot as a means of instituting government in Kenya. “We will not allow two megalomaniacs to destroy the dream of freedom and democracy that generations have sacrificed and worked so hard for,” he said. Raila insisted NASA will ensure that Kenya conducts a free, fair and credible presidential election as ordered by the Supreme Court on September 1. That’s when it overturned Kenyatta’s victory in the August 8 General Election.  In an exclusive interview with CNN over the weekend, Deputy President William Ruto dismissed calls for another election and maintained that the next poll will be in 2022. That’s when he expects to be elected President. “The opposition boycotted the elections of its own volition and cannot purport to demand more elections outside the Constitution,” Ruto said. Uhuru was reelected with an extraordinary 98.26 per cent of the votes a record since the advent of multi-party democracy which translates into 7,483,895 votes. Turnout was officially put at 38.84 per cent. Raila had called for a NASA poll boycott and yesterday he said that had exposed Jubilee’s tyranny of numbers as a fraud and the 8.2 million he officially secured on August 8 to “be fiction and votefixing and manipulation of figures by the IEBC”. He was joined by his NASA coprincipal Musalia Mudavadi, the ANC chief. Raila claimed IEBC could not to produce believable voter turnout figures and manufactured numbers to demonstrate Uhuru had a popular mandate. He cited an incident in Kandara in which area MP Alice Wahome assaulted the returning officer for allegedly transmitting the results without her input.  The presiding officer had assigned more than 400 votes for Uhuru to one of his minor rivals and she wanted the numbers corrected. “What input did the MP want to add in an election result where there was no contest? It can only be to inflate the voter turnout. We have evidence that such ‘inputs’ were provided in several Jubilee strongholds,” Raila said. As part of the People’s Assembly, NASA is forming a task force to look into the systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political crisis, he said. The task force will look into, among issues, systemic continuing failure of electoral bodies and the electoral system, performance of national security organs and the abuse by the Executive. It will also re-examine the political architecture and the structure of the Executive and Parliament, the protection and safeguarding of devolution, exclusion and discrimination in the allocation and distribution of public resources. Part of the mandate of the task force was the clearest signal that NASA will champion constitutional amendments. “We anticipate that the Task Force recommendations will include constitutional amendments that will be presented to the People’s Assembly for adoption, and thereafter to the county assemblies for ratification,” Raila stated. The opposition is vastly outnumbered in Parliament. Once again, Raila said NASA is ready for national dialogue with Jubilee but only on new free and fair elections preceded by nominations, as well as democracy, constitutionalism and the rule of law. On Monday, Uhuru remained tightlipped on whether he would engage in dialogue with Raila following the country’s political crisis and sporadic violence, especially on NASA turf. Speaking after receiving his certificate, Uhuru said he will make his agenda known after all the legal processes challenging his reelection are exhausted. “There is still another process and we shall wait for that process and wait for its outcome. And so therefore those who would want to ask me are you going to engage in dialogue… let them first and foremost exhaust the constitutionally laid down processes,” Uhuru said. There is no indications at this stage that NASA will return to the Supreme Court which ruled in favour of his petition against Uhuru’s August 8 eleciton. However, there is speculation a host of civil society organisations that have already poked holes in the electoral process are headed to the apex court. Yesterday, a coalition of trade unions, civil society, academia, faith-based organisations, the media, women, youth, people with disabilities and minorities dismissed October 26 repeat presidential election as “a sham”.