As the race to fend off relegation becomes even more frenetic, coaches of the teams under threat, are using all their managerial skills to coax their teams into action. Thika United coach Nicholas Muyoti, despite seeing his side beat Sony Sugar 1-0 to move off the two automatic relegation slots, appeared far from satisfied with the display beckoning his players not to rest on their laurels in a post-match interview. “It was a good result for us but our performance has still got room for improvement. We need to kill off games when we have the opportunity,” said the Thika coach. With three matches left to play with two coming away from home against Tusker and Zoo Kericho, Thika are on an upward trajectory and looks on recent form the most likely team to beat the drop. They currently have 32 points. His Western Stima counterpart, Ugandan Richard Makumbi was equally in mournful mood and understandably so after his team slipped back to the bottom two after the 2-1 loss away at Gor Mahia despite taking the lead from the spot in that match. Out of the remaining three matches for Stima, they are capable of getting something from Posta Rangers and Ulinzi Stars both of which will be at home. “To win games you have to score goals. Goals are what we need to be getting now if we are to achieve our target of remaining in the league,” remarked Makumbi. His complaint seems bizzare in the sense that the goal shy Stima have hit the back of the net four times this season against Gor and Sofapaka—the two teams that had been competing for the title until a month ago. Despite underwhelming performances thathave left his Mathare United side deep in the relegation mire and his coaching CV blemished, Francis Kimanzi has insisted that his side are way above the dogfight they are currently in. Perfomances, however, have suggested otherwise. Wednesday’s goalless draw was not exactly the kind of result that would back up Kimanzi’s recent sentiments. The result instead saw them slip back into the drop zone with three matches left to play against Nzoia,Zoo and the relegation six-pointer against Muhoroni Youth.The fatc that Muhoroni’s coach George Maina has said little suggest that even he is finally coming to terms with the onerous task on his hands. He has matches against Kariobangi Sharks, Mathare and AFC Leopards to contend with before the final day of the campign.