Farmers contribute to the spread of drug resistant diseases like some strains of gonorrhea by misusing antibiotics in animals. Kenya Veterinary Association says this happens through the increased overuse and misuse of the bacteria-fighting drugs. KVA chairman Dr Samuel Kahariri said the veterinary field is poorly regulated and swamped by a high number of quacks. “This easily introduces drug residues in the foods and poses a great public health concern since it leads to anti-microbial resistance. Some farmers use antibiotics for preventing diseases and they do so mostly by introducing the drugs in the feeds, this is one of the lead causes of developing resistance in the veterinary field,” he said. KVA honourary secretary Dr Kenneth Wameyo advised farmers that the antibiotics sold in Kenya cannot act as growth agents.  “Antibiotics are not growth promoters. In the West it's different because when they make growth promoters they add antibiotics, but they are now discouraging those formulations,” he said. Wameyo urged farmers to invest more in hygiene and vaccines to prevent diseases. "For instance applying disinfectant can actually kill 50 per cent of bacteria," he said.  Dr Wameyo said  Kenya needs a special directorate to regulate veterinary medicine.  "Currently they are policed by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, which is more concerned with human medicine. If we have a separate body we can police our own  drugs properly," he said. He also advised farmers to consult registered vets instead of treating their own animals.  Kenya has about 1,100 registered veterinary surgeons and at least 4000 assistant vets, who have diploma and other lower certifications.  The call comes a week after the Kenya Dairy Board warned much of the milk sold in Kenya is unfit for human consumption as it contains aflatoxins and antibiotics, among other chemicals. "We have tested samples of milk and there is high presence of aflatoxins and preservatives, which are health hazards," Kaberia Muriungi, a Senior Dairy Development Officer at KDB in Voi was quoted as saying. The World Health Organisation says the threat to public health from the overuse of antibiotics in animals is real and growing. Generally, humans are at risk both due to potential presence of superbugs in meat and poultry, and to the general migration of superbugs into the environment, where they can transmit their genetic immunity to antibiotics to other bacteria, including bacteria that make people sick. Last week, WHO issued new recommendations  to help preserve the effectiveness of antibiotics that are important for human medicine by decreasing their excessive use in animals.      