Drivers can expect a worsening traffic nightmare with the closure of a section of Harambee Avenue that took effect on November 6. City Hall said the closure will allow construction of a tunnel for MPs to access their offices at County Hall and Continental House from Parliament Buildings. The legislators say crossing the busy street is dangerous. There are also claims the busy lawmakers also want to avoid their constituents and other Kenyans. Petitioners camp outside Parliament and accost lawmakers, seeking their help and delaying them. Vehicles will not be allowed on the section of the road between Uhuru Highway and Parliament Road. The underground passage will take seven months to be completed. The Parliamentary Service Commission has set Sh700 million to improve MPs’ security. This includes construction of the tunnel. MPs now cross over Harambee Avenue from Parliament Buildings to get to their offices on the other side. They say it endangers them. In May 2015, police mounted barriers on sections of Harambee Avenue and Parliament Road and restricted vehicle movement to secure legislators. Though the section of the road appears small, traffic gridlock in the CBD and on key roads is usually caused by the slightest interruption in the movement of vehicles on any road. Residents may have to brace themselves for more jams. “Pedestrians will be restricted to the walkways of at least three metres wide,” a notice by acting county secretary Leboo ole Morintat said. Leboo yesterday told the Star on the phone that signboards will be mounted and traffic police officers will be deployed to direct pedestrians and motorists. “All the necessary measures have been put in place to ensure minimum disruption of the normal traffic flow along Harambee Avenue and Parliament,” the notice says. Leboo could not confirm the exact cost of the project. Efforts to get other comments were unsuccessful. Calls and messages were not answered by the Senate clerk and Parliamentary Service Commission chief executive Jeremiah Nyengenye. The PSC is also constructing a Sh5.8 billion building next to County Hall to accommodate the 418 legislators. The building will also have committee rooms and members’ offices. The move is intended to improve the work of the National Assembly and the Senate.