National Assembly is expected to resume sittings next week on Tuesday and top on its business is the constitution of House committees. President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party which the majority of MP s in both the Senate and the National Assembly is rearing to proceed to form the committees should the opposition NASA coalition fails to submit the names of Minority Leader, Deputy Minority, the opposition Whip and the Deputy Whip. The Minority Leader's office is responsible for coming up with the list of members who will be appointed to various committees. Before they went on short recess three weeks ago, NA Speaker Justin Muturi had warned the opposition that should it failed to resolved the leadership wrangles in the coalition, he would proceed to rule on which party between ODM,Ford-Kenya,Wiper and ANC qualifies to be a minority party. "Remember,many of you in that coalition may not qualify to be parliamentary parties, if you do not take your decision quickly. That is because when we resume next time, I will have to make a decision one way or the other; to look at which party qualifies to be a parliamentary party and ask them to make individual decisions," muturi told the House. "You have a window of three weeks. You do not even need three weeks. You can make that decision even in a day," he added. Muturi told the legislators that on September 13, his office received a letter from NASA co principal and Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula appointing Suba South MP John Mbadi as the Minority Leader, Ayub Savula(Lugari) as the Deputy Minority Leader, Robert Mbui(Kathiani), as the Minority Whip and Chrisantus Wamalwa(Kiminini) as the Deputy Minority Whip. A week later,Muturi said his office received another letter from Mbadi notifying him of a decision by the NASA coalition to leave the offices of the Deputy Leader of Minority, Minority Whip and Deputy Minority Whip vacant awaiting a NASA parliamentary group meeting where the coalition was to deliberate and fill the positions. He told the House that , Mbadi attached a letter from the Chief Executive Officer of the coalition Norman Magaya and in terms of compliance with the requirements of Standing Orders 20(4), there were no minutes attached to the communication . "It is obvious that Senator Wetangula cannot be the Minority Whip to a House to which he does not belong. Firstly, the communications I have received from the Minority coalition relating to the filling of its leadership positions have all fallen short of fulfilling the requirements of Standing Order 20(4) in terms of who should communicate and how the communication ought to be done," he said. He added: "In view of the foregoing, I am unable to act on the correspondences from parties forming the NASA Coalition and I call upon the Coalition to consider the matter and submit the necessary names in strict fulfillment of the laid down procedures, including those governing the Coalition. This ought to be concluded by the time the House resumes from the short recess, that is, November 7, 2017". Mbadi had promised to get the issue resolved. Yesterday the Star could not get a comment from him as he did not receive phone calls. Among the key committees the MPs are lobbying for include the powerful committee on Administration and National Security,Agriculture,Livestock and Co-operatives,Defence and Foreign Relations,Education,Research and Technology,Energy,Communication and Information,Environment and Natural Resources,Committee on Health,Justice and Legal Affairs,Labour and Social Welfare,Lands and the Transport ,Public Works and Housing. All these committees fall under departmental committees. Then there are two oversight committees which are reserved for the opposition-the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Investment Committee. Under the new Standing Orders, a new watchdog committee-the Special Funds Accounts Committee, which will be chaired by an independent MP. There are eight select committee: Constitution Implementation Oversight,Regional Integration,Committee on Implementation,Committee on Delegated Legislation,committee on CDF,Budget and Appropriation,Committee on Appropriations , Committee on Appointments and the committee on Selection. Others are the House keeping committees which include House Business committee,Procedure and House Rules committee ,Liaison Committee,Privileges committee,Catering and Health Club committee and the Pension committee. Both House Business Committee and the Committee on Selection have been formed albeit without MPs from the NASA coalition.              