Well meaning county assemblies will dismiss NASA’s motions seeking the creation of People's Assemblies, Nyandarua speaker Wahome Ndegwa has said. Ndegwa said he is waiting eagerly for the presentation of the motion in his assembly to understand under which sections of the Constitution it is based on.  "I am waiting for it so that I feel the pleasure of dismissing it so that the Constitution of this country can prevail”, Ndegwa said on Friday.  He said the Constitution recognizes only two assemblies: the National Assembly and the Senate. Read: NASA mulls constitution review as it launches People's Assembly To create other assemblies, he said, was criminal and illegal and is a mere agitation by the opposition for relevance and self satisfaction.  "We are not going to allow NASA to create trouble so that they can create a platform for dialogue", Ndegwa said. He said the Kenyan Constitution is a well structured document that provides answers to all issues whose genesis must be through Acts of Parliament.  Ndegwa said the people's assemblies advocated by NASA are meant to perpetuate criminal intentions whose actions are not provided for in law. Read: Raila directs NASA MPs to guide People's Assembly debates He said NASA thrives in crises and moments of disorder and that they are "trying to cloth” it with some legitimacy by seeking the support of some county assemblies. The creation of people’s assemblies is one of the strategies that NASA is using to try and agitate for a “legitimate” presidency. NASA leader Raila Odinga has also called on supporters to boycott products from Brookside, Safaricom and Bidco accusing the firms of colluding to rig the October 26 repeat election in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s favour. Read: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott Also Read: Raila's boycott call is criminal, amounts to extortion, says Ruto Uhuru was elected with 98 per cent of the vote at the repeat contest which Raila pulled out.  Raila has refused to recognize the repeat election saying it was not held under the provisions of the Constitution. He has called for a new election to be held within 90 days and a caretaker government created in the interim. The creation of the people’s assemblies is seen as a fall back strategy in the event that the Supreme Court, which is set to listen to presidential petitions against Uhuru’s win, fails to nullify the election. Read: One million Kenyans to lose jobs with NASA boycott - Safaricom Also read: Airtel sales increase, BIdco and Brookside stock drop in Homa Bay      