The Capital Markets Authority may not meet its target of reaching 100 listings by 2023 due to tough macroeconomic environment characterised by a bearish market. “We have not met the three to four listings per annum which would have translated to 100 listings by 2023 from the current 64. This should have increased our market cap to Sh4 trillion,” CMA director for policy and strategy Luke Ombara said. Under the 10-year Capital Markets Master Plan launched in 2014, the regulator set out to list three to four new firms annually on the Growth Enterprise Market Segment of the Nairobi Securities Exchange in a market dominated by small- and medium-sized enterprises. Over the four-year period, the regulator has had only six new listings. “During the period in the business cycle, we were at a point where the index only stabilised recently and started rising, so effectively, in a bearish market, the argument is it is not the right time to come into the market,” Ombara said. Another reason for a slowdown in new listings has been the lack of proper valuation by nominated advisors. This has seen firms listed under GEMS trade around or below their ‘per value’ discouraging potential issuers. “Part of our strategy deliverables for this year is to examine how we can enhance quality of valuation. There needs to be a reference for valuation standards,” he said. Ombara said there is continued reluctance by family-owned businesses and SMEs to cede control of their companies so they can join the market. Through the business accelerator and listing experience initiative, CMA is reaching out to potential issuers to take them through the benefits of listing such as tax incentives. As at June, the regulator said at least four firms were expected to list on the NSE over the next 12 months. Another 30 have applied to trade shares publicly with approvals at different stages meaning they have met all the pre-conditions for legibility to list, but still have to make decisions around restructuring their shareholding because there are also requirements on board balance. Four firms have exited the bourse since 2013, the latest being auto dealer Marshalls East Africa which delisted yesterday. Others are Rea Vipingo, Access Kenya and CMC Holdings. GEMS is self-regulated by the NSE and has lower entry requirements compared to the main income market segment and the alternative investment market segment.