Kenya private-sector activity plunged further in October to record an all-time low purchasing manager’s index (PMI) of 34.4 basis points, compared to 40.9 recorded in September PMI is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector based on five major indicators which include new orders, inventory levels, production, supplier and the employment environment. The Markit Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers’ Index released on Friday attributed the massive drop to the hostile political climate following the annulment of the presidential results by the Supreme Court and subsequent fresh presidential election that was boycotted by the main opposition leading to protests in major cities. The tough political period saw people minimise spending and movement, leading to sharp decline in output, new orders, employment and stocks of purchase. ‘’For the sixth consecutive month, conditions in Kenya’s private sector continued to deteriorate, which is reflective of the protracted political impasses in the country. Alongside reduced domestic demand, the foreign demand flattened as new export orders declined at the fastest pace in the survey’s history,’’ said regional economist for global markets at Stanbic, Jibran Qureishi. He added the sector also continues to bemoan the unavailability of access of credit which has been restrained as a consequence of the interest capping law. He is however confident that recent rains will be broadly supportive of the agriculture sector and if this is combined with an end to the political impasse, then the private sector, in general, is likely to begin showing some much-needed signs of improvement over the near to medium term. The country’s private sector has been performing dismally in recent times, recording PMI of below 50 points for six consecutive months, the longest period of decline observed in the survey’s history. The seasonally adjusted PMI has been operating below the 50 points line since May, when it posted 49.9. In June, it dropped to 47.3 before gaining to settle at 48.1 in July. In August, it dropped to 42 points before shrinking further to 40.9 the following month.  The private sector is considered to be performing better when PMI is above 50 points. Kenya’s highest PMI of all time stands at 57. Even so, the inflation rate slowed to 5.72 per cent from 7.06 per cent in September. This was the least inflation level recorded since June last year and is attributed to a drop in the prices of major food commodities due to adequate rainfall received in the past five months. 