 The construction of the 537-kilometre Lamu-Garissa-Isiolo road will start in June next year and be completed four years later, Transport CS James Macharia has said. The project will cost Sh62 billion. The loan to fund the road construction has a repayment period of 13 years. The project, which is part of the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport Corridor, will be financed by a consortium of international investors led by the Development Bank of South Africa. Yesterday, Kenya and South Africa signed the commercial agreement for the project. The road is the first section of Lapsset and will link Lamu Port to the Garissa-Thika Road and the Isiolo-Moyale Road. Speaking from his office yesterday, Macharia said the mega infrastructure slowed down because of financial constraints. He said the signing of the agreement will pave way for construction to begin. Once completed, the road will improve access and inter-connectivity between Kenya, South Sudan, Ethiopia and Uganda. Lapsset board chairman Francis Muthaura said he was hopeful that the project will add three per cent to the country’s annual GDP growth. He said 10 towns within the Northern region will benefit from the project. They include Lamu, Garissa, Isiolo, Marsabit, Moyale, Maralal, Lodwar, Lokichogio, Lokichar and Bunga. The Lapsset project, which was commissioned by former President Mwai Kibaki in 2012, is expected to open up Kenya’s northern frontier for more trade and investment. It had been identified as the long term conduit for Kenya’s oil exports through a crude pipeline linking Lamu to the oilfields in Turkana county. Kenya and South Africa signed a memorandum of understanding on the Sh2.5 trillion project during a visit by President Jacob Zuma in October last year. DBSA, which is wholly owned by the South African government, has arranged funding for projects in transport, energy, water and ICT sectors. Macharia said the project will reduce the dependence of the port of Mombasa as well as decongest the Northern corridor.  The operations and maintenance phase of the highway will run for 25 years. The Kenya National Highways Authority will, plan, design and develop the highway component of the Lapsset corridor project which approximately totals to 2,000 kilometres.