My motherland, the Luo nation, is a sleeping, snoring giant. Sleeping because of our immense untapped economic potential. Snoring because of the loudness of our politics. Despite our unrivaled human capital and immense development potential arising from rich fertile soils, a favourable climate, mineral wealth, agriculture, tourism, the second largest freshwater lake in the world and an international airport, all our development indices are increasingly pointing south. I humbly submit that this unfortunate trend must be reversed. Why? I don’t hear sufficient voices screaming and shouting, agitating for investors to visit our beaches to trade with our fisherfolk for fresh Lake Victoria fish destined for local and international markets. Instead, we hear our voices loudest in street demonstrations, TV talk shows, press conferences and endless Bunge la Wananchi politicking. This has gone on for over 50 years. I don’t see us eagerly inviting cargo flights from Kisumu International Airport to carry fresh produce from our farms with local value addition, packaging and processing plants to create thousands of jobs for our youth and farmers. Instead, I see the youth out in the streets running and put in harm’s way. I long to see our leaders sign trade pacts to attract foreign investment and purchase local produce. Instead, I see them meeting foreign envoys to pursue a political agenda. How pleasant would it be to witness Kano and Nyando plains covered with lush green fields of irrigated rice, cotton, sugar, and horticultural produce with direct markets offering best prices? We are currently not creating an enabling environment sufficient to awaken our sleeping giant. The Luo community has been in opposition for over 50 years. Two generations have been consumed in this unending continuum that has evidently not served us well. We engage in eternal oppositionism, even when joint ventures with the government of the day would serve our interests better. Whereas we should exercise our right to get our own into State House, we must not emasculate 4.5 million other Luos in the process. We must find out what works for or against us. We must have learned, for example, that we achieved more when Raila Odinga was in government as Prime Minister or as Minister for Roads than when he was out altogether. We must have learned that when Raphael Tuju was in government and focused more on development and partnership building, rather than perpetual politicking, he got the roads, electricity and health facilities done and helped our folks get into positions that could stir or awaken the sleeping giant. To a keen observer, the decline in our fortunes is hardly surprising. In the last 10 or so years, our community has systematically removed itself from key policymaking positions in government by demonising and ostracising our professionals out of decision-making positions where the national cake is distributed and key appointments happen, leaving nobody to vouch for us. We have also sent clear and unambiguous messages to government that we are unwilling to engage and at the extreme have even threatened secession. This is a toxic environment where growth rarely succeeds. I call upon my brothers and sisters in the opposition to prioritise the region’s development above politics by helping to open Nyanza up for partnerships and development. This requires a paradigm shift in our hardline mindset by developing a constructive engagement with the government of the day so that, together, we can awaken the sleeping giant that is Nyanza. President Uhuru Kenyatta has already extended a hand of friendship and cooperation through the many visits and development initiatives in the region. The NYS and slum-upgrading programmes he launched in Kisumu in 2005 benefiting over 5,000, the Lake Victoria hyacinth eradication programme, the fish-cage farming initiative in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties, the Sh817 million Mbita-Rusinga Bridge and the recent revival of the Sh15 billion brewery in Kisumu expected to create 110,000 jobs stand out. In the spirit of friendship and co-operation, I extend my support to Uhuru and what I consider the right side of history.        