Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has refused to be dragged into the debate of Coast secession. On Wednesday, during the launch of six police patrol boats at the Port of Mombasa, Boinnet refused to comment on the issue. “No comment!” Boinnet told journalists. The IG also remained tight-lipped on whether police are going to take action against the Coast opposition governors and legislators who are pushing the secession debate.  But yesterday, government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe claimed the secession debate is a tactic by politicians to remain relevant. He said agitators of the Coast secession want to remain politically relevant after their terms end in 2022. Kiraithe said Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi's Amason Kingi have been yearning "to be Sultans and all that nonsense". He said the two have tasted power and would like to have more of it. "Anything which can be done under the law, is okay but secession is totally diversionary and has political agenda," he said, just three days after EU envoys warned about it. But the two governor have said they are pushing for self-determination, because "Coast has been marginalised politically and economically". Joho and Kingi on Friday led over 12 Coast legislators in declaring their move to secede. Kiraithe said self-rule of any part of Kenya will not be in the interest of the country. Kiraithe spoke at Mbaraki Sports Ground, Mombasa. Jubilee leaders at the Coast, led by Tourism CS Najib Balala, have said the secession talk is dangerous. They said Joho and Kingi are looking for political mileage. “Let us not be reckless on talks about secession, just because we want to be defiant against the government. The talk on secession is serious,” Balala said on Tuesday He said Joho and Kingi are using the secession issue to bargain for senior government positions after the 2022 General Election. “I know this is politics. People have seen that in 2022, they do not have positions anymore, so they want to use the emotions of secession to position themselves,” Balala said. During the 2012 campaigns, Joho and Kingi are on record opposing the Mombasa Republican Council, which was fighting for the Coast self-rule. Kingi was once attacked by suspected MRC members during a rally in Mtwapa for allegedly not supporting their ideology. Coast residents are now wondering what has become of Joho and Kingi.  Kauma Council of Elders vice chairperson John Munga on Monday said secession would lead to bloodshed. “This is a dangerous talk. The leaders ought to sit together and forge a way forward to develop the region, rather than calling for self-rule,” he said.