The Health ministry has ordered all institutions, including banks and malls, to have toilets for their clients as part of efforts to address sanitation issues. Any institution that will violate the new directive will be closed. Health CS Cleopa Mailu said the county governments have been directed to arrest and prosecute passengers who defecate along the highways. He said various stopovers, especially on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway, have sanitation facilities and drivers who will be found stopping midway for passengers to relieve themselves will be charged. “As part of achieving Open Defecation Free (ODF), all banks and malls should have toilets. We are keen to address the issue of sanitation on major roads,” the CS said. His speech was read by Director of Public Health and Sanitation in the ministry Kepha Ombacho yesterday during the celebrations to mark World Toilet Day at Naivasha Highway Primary School. Mailu said the government is committed to ensure Kenya achieves ODF status. “About 2.2 million households comprising 10.1 million people live in an open defecation free environment. We are making strides to achieve our vision,” he said. “In Naivasha alone, 114 villages out of 187 have achieved ODF status.” Mailu termed poor sanitation and the sewerage menace as some of the key contributors of diarrhoeal diseases among children.  He said only 12 per cent of Kenyans have proper sewerage systems.  “About 60 per cent of wastewater that enters through the sewer network reaches the treatment plants, while existing plants hold 16 per cent of their design capacity,” he said. Unicef’s Andrew Trevett praised Kenya for her dedication to ensuring the ODF status. “Busia county has become the first county to achieve ODF status. Several other counties – Siaya, Isiolo, Kitui and Nakuru – are making significant strides. This is commendable,” Trevett said. Nakuru Deputy Governor Eric Korir said the county is losing an estimated Sh927 million to poor sanitation. “Eliminating ODF in Nakuru county would require less than 12,000 latrines to be built and be used at a cost of Sh420 million,” he said.