Kenya Simbas coach Jerome Paarwter has made eight changes ahead of their second match of the Four Nations tournament against Russia today in Hong Kong. Following the 23-3 defeat to Chile last Friday, the South African tactician has called up Oscar Simiyu, Dennis Karani, Lyle Asiligwa, Biko Adema, Peter Kilonzo and Vincent Mose to start the encounter against Russia.  The eight came into the match against Chile as substitutes alongside Martin Owilah and Alex Olaba. Elkeans Musonye, also unused on Day one, starts on the bench. Peter Karia, Oliver Mang’eni, Joshua Chisanga, Leo Owade, Darwin Mukidza, Davis Chenge and skipper Wilson Kopondo retain their places in the starting line up. Russia began their campaign with a griity 16-13 win over Hong Kong on Friday and are ranked 20th in the world. They start today’s match as favourites, owing to their dominant set pieces and experience. The two sides are meeting for the first time ever. Paarwter said he was disappointed with the squad’s inability to treasure possession and score tries against Chile last week. “We made a lot of errors in attack and we rarely held on to the ball for more than five minutes. We must attack better and reduce our error rate if we are to get anything from this match against Russia,” he added. Paarwater said the Russians are physical and have a dominant scrum. “We must match them up-front in the fowards and try win the collisions and breakdown. Our tactics will be to play at pace and try and tire some of their forwards,” added Paarwater. Paarwater said he was happy with the defensive organisation of the side following the arrival of compatriot Levy Labbeb. “Defensively, we are okay and the two tries scored came from scrums,” noted Paarwater. Skipper Wilson Kopondo said they have learnt lessons from the match against Chile. “We are disappointed. We didn’t play to our potential. Our link up play must improve and we must utilise our chances,” he added. Russia’s key players include Sergey Chernyshev, Valery Mozov, Dmitri Kotova and Andrei Temnov in the fowards with fullback Anton Ryabon and fly-half Ramil Gasin the pick of the backs.