Zoo Kericho secured their place in the Sportpesa Premier league for next season after beating Thika United 2-1 yesterday. Fans favourite Nicholas Kipkirui and Dominic Ouma scored the goals in the first half with Shami Kibwana responding for Thika 15 minutes after the break. The three points pushed Zoo’s tally to 40 and they now are out of danger going into the final weekend of the 2017 season. Thika on the other hand remain in grave danger of losing their top flight status as they remain in the relegation zone with 35 points. Thika will now need to beat Bandari on Saturday and hope that Mathare United lose if they are to beat the drop. Western Stima are also in danger and must win against Chemeli on Saturday to stay in the top flight league. Meanwhile,Gor Mahia fans have been warned over pitch invasion during their final league match against Sony Sugar on Saturday at Moi Stadium Kisumu. The club management has taken early measures to ensure repetition of the 2014 scenes, where fans invaded the pitch to celebrate their 14th league crown at the same venue, do not recur. The move is aimed to protect the players and ensure an orderly presentation of the trophy to the players.  “We have begun sending this message to our fans. We request them not to invade the pitch after the final whistle as we would like to have an orderly presentation of the trophy. We acknowledge the support of our fans but we implore them to be orderly.We are expecting corporates and other invited guests to join us in crowning our boys who have done a good job throughout the season.” The club further confirmed the decision to bring in a right back, who will fill the void left by the injured Karim Nizigiyimana, who is expected to be sidelined for three months. “Karim will be out for three months and we are not sure if he will fully recover within the time given by the doctor. We do not want to take chances since there are serious football activities in the upcoming season. We might bring in a quality defender to fill in for Karim as he recuperates.” Gor have garnered 73 points from 33 matches which translates to 22 wins. seven draws and four losses. Second-placed Sofapaka trail them with 52 points and a 21-point gap.  