Restorers of an 18th century wooden statue of Jesus Christ have reportedly found a calligraphed note that a priest hid in the Messiah's rear end. The note dates back to 1777 and is signed by Joaquin Minguez, priest of the cathedral of Burgo de Osma at the time, the statue's restorers claim. It discusses popular Spanish pastimes, the local village's economy, political and religious matters, famous people, among other topics. Though the restoration firm that found the note makes startling claims about its origins and contents, the legitimacy of the discovery has not yet been confirmed by historians or archaeologists. The document was recently unearthed by workers of the Madrid-based art restoration company Da Vinci Restauro.  The wooden statue is usually kept at the church of Santa Agueda in the village of Sotillo de la Ribera in the northern Spanish province of Burgos.  The document, handwritten on both sides of two pages, was found when restorers removed a piece of fabric used to cover Christ's behind which exposed a small gap, Da Vinci Restauro claims. "The document of the eighteenth century appeared when we were dismantling the Christ of the cross," restorer Gemma Millares told MailOnline. "The wood is hollow inside, and the sculptor introduced the two permaninos, which we have found. "The document found talks about life in the town in 1777, the author, the local economy, games and customs of the time, etc." Restauro created a re-enactment video showing how its artists came across the amazing find.  The firm reports it spoke to a local historian named Efren Arroyo, who said: "It is amazing, because it really is unique to find hidden handwritten documents inside such statues." However the company was not forthcoming with details of Arroyo and could not confirm where his research is based. The document names the statue's sculptor and includes information about local practices such as farming and community affairs, Restauro claimed. The script also highlights common diseases, popular children's games and even the names of successful bullfighters of the time. Restauro said the references indicate its author intended for the note to act as a time capsule for future generation. MailOnline spoke to Millares, but the art restorer was unable to give any extra detail on what the note says. Click here for the latest political news