The High Court yesterday temporarily barred Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i from confiscating and killing livestock in Laikipa county. Justice John Mativo directed that police and their agents cease confiscating, killing and seizing livestock belonging to pastoralists. The order is temporary, pending the hearing and determination of the petition. Mativo ordered the matter transferred to Nanyuki High Court. He directed petitioners petitioners to serve respondents with dcuments. For more than a year, Laikipia has been ravaged by armed, invading pastrolists from other counties. They seek water and pasture during the drought. They also claim it is their ancestral land and have killed police, residents, wildlife and destroyed property. Former Laikipia North MP Matthew Lempurkel moved to court seeking orders stopping police from killing their livestock. On November 2, police allegedly killed 300 head of cattle in a gunbattle with invading herders. Police said only about 70 aminals were killed, used by herders as shields. In the petition, Lempurkel also wants the government to compensate the pastoralist community for livestock that were seized, confiscated, killed or maimed. The former legislator said police security operations in Laikipa have led to destruction of property, killing of livestock and disruption of the livelihoods of the pastoralist community. According to Lempurkel, the community is marginalised and depends solely on their livestock for their livelihood. The police operation has disrupted their lives and left them destitute, Lempurkel says. “Police and other security forces under police command have been wreaking havoc on the pastoralist community in Laikipia county.” “The resultant land ownership that occasioned the expulsion of the pastoralists more than one hundred years ago explains local grievances today,” Lempurkel says. In his petition, he also argues Article 56 of the Constitution requires the state to put in place affirmative action to ensure that minorities and marginalised groups are provided special economic opportunities. The former MP says the devolved Laikipia government has not done so. He wants a court declaration that confiscation, killing and seizure of pastoralists’ livestock is unconstitutional, amounting to inhuman eand degrading treatment. The former MP also wants an order directing Boinnet and Mating’i to ensure security of the pastoralists community and their livestock within Laikipia.