Many watched as Kandara MP Alice Wahome assaulted and obstructed IEBC returning officer Martin Malonza as he left Ng’araria tallying centre for Bomas in Nairobi. Whether her actions can be attributed to memory aberration or sheer calculated motives to intimidate the returning officer to succumb to her demands, it is totally unacceptable. By virtue of her position in society, she should have restrained herself. A section of Kenyans have termed her actions an embarrassment and indictment of women’s leadership, taking into account women are struggling to deconstruct the Kenyan societal myth that women cannot make good leaders. One thing our politicians, irrespective of gender, have never recognised is that by virtue of the positions they occupy in society, their daily moves are monitored by all and sundry. Young people follow keenly what elected leaders do inside and outside Parliament. That precisely explains why the fight between Starehe MP Charles Njagua, popularly Jaguar, and Embakasi East’s Babu Owino at Parliament’s media centre left many questioning youth leadership. For the greater part of my professional life, I have supported women and youth leadership. The former ensures injection of the much-desired work ethics and values such as honesty, hard work and empathy in our politics, while the latter brings fresh ideas and new perspectives to governance. Wahome’s actions are not unique. Politicians have the tendency to harass people of lower cadre or those who pay strict adherence to work ethics. Independent commissions and other public institutions have borne the brunt of disrespect from politicians. Institutions are seen as fair and impartial only if they favour individual interests. This clearly serves to demonstrate the hypocrisy by some of our politicians. These actions undermine the core mandate of independent institutions in a nascent democracy such as ours. The 2010 Constitution put an end to the use of independent institutions for and by the privileged few, who have access to state power. We have, however, not lived true to the spirit of the Constitution. Independent commissions are still not truly independent. We all must put in effort to ensure the Constitution we gave to ourselves, its spirit, intent and promise do not become forlorn. Actions such as that of Wahome are what make many people to loathe politics and politicians at the same time. But in this murky game of politics, it would be extremely unfair to generalise and condemn our politicians wholasale. When darkness seems to lurk everywhere, leaders such as Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja becomes our light and renew our hope that one day, we can get our politics right. Sakaja’s actions at the Panafric Hotel, where he rescued Mathare MP Antony Olouch from heavy bodied men, who appeared to have no shred of humanity and conflict resolution skills. Sakaja, by all standards, epitomises progressive leadership. He has come out as straightforward on a couple of issues. No wonder he is such a loved “boy” by many across the political divide. Wahome and Sakaja make an interesting case study. While both come from Jubilee, the former embraces dogmatism in that the end justifies the means, while the latter is liberal and rational in nature and how he addresses issues. Perhaps it’s high time to revisit Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. The emphasis is so much on leaders because they bear the biggest responsibility of upholding the peace.  Leadership guru John Maxwell asserts that everything starts and ends with leadership. That’s why elections, which are designed to produce leaders, are such a high-stakes game, more so in Africa, where people are willing to shed blood in the name of politics. This reminds me of the conversation I had with a friend and he asked me who bewitched our politicians? We must learn to be civilised enough and tolerate each other. Politics was never designed to divide us but to create a space for competition of ideas. We must also reduce the importance we give to ethnicity in politics. Ethnocentrism seems to be the salient feature in the conduct of politics. Our politicians must also understand in this life we are mere mortals. Political power is bound to come to an end in one’s political career. Shakespeare wrote, “All the world is a stage and all the men and women merely players: they have their exits and entrances.” What will our leaders exit the stage with? Infamy or a good, enduring legacy?     Nkuubi is the executive director, Governance Pillar Organization          