One name that has in the recent past been top in social and mainstream media is that of Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot. Not much was heard of him before the October 26 election, even leading to the August 8 polls. In many democracies, including ours, presidential elections have several candidates but in many cases, the front-runners are usually two. The media, the Fourth Estate, refers it as “a two horse race, and rarely talks of the “others” or the “donkeys”. To the electorate, the horses are the projected winners since the headlines all through the electioneering period largely highlight the two leading candidates, therefore selling their names to the public. In one way or another, when the media keeps on talking about a politician, whether portrayed in good or bad image, they still become popular. There is no such thing as negative publicity. In this sense, the horses end up dominating the media platform. For instance, ahead of the August 8 General Election, media houses organized two-tier presidential debates. One was to pit the two horses — President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. President Uhuru didn’t attend but Raila showed up. Raila showed up and aswered the question. The other debate was organised for the “donkeys”.  Clearly, the organisers didn’t want the horses to mix with donkeys. This raises the questions, why separate these presidential candidates if they are discussing their plans for the same country? In my view, the media was unfair in the whole issue because the impression that was made was that the “others” were weak, worthless and obvious losers in the race.  When one meets the requirements of Article 137 of the Constitution to stand as President, they are first among equals before the law. The IEBC, too, had its fair share in ignoring the so-called ‘’donkeys’’. Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati addressing the nation ahead of the October 26 election called on the two ‘”leading’’ candidates to come together and dialogue. When a referee appears to give an upper hand to some players, the others will certainly feel insignificant. Civil society groups and the Church also focussed on Raila and Uhuru in their pressers, totally ignoring the other candidates.  I also observed that the US-led international community only limited themselves to Raila and Uhuru and their political outfits. This was evident in the joint press conferences read by US Ambassador Robert Godec. One may argue that they were insignificant in the race. But what happened when Raila withdrew from the race? All attention turned to the High Court, where Aukot had filed a petition to be included on the repeat presidential polls. All over sudden, a donkey became important since the court ruled all the candidates ought to be included in the ballot. All hope of not exposing our country to a constitutional/ political legitimacy crisis was hinged on Aukot’s petition, since the law is silent on what would have happened if the election was not conducted 60 days. The first beneficiary in disguise was the IEBC, which had prepared the election as a run-off by only having Raila and Uhuru on the ballot. I think this serves as a lesson to all stakeholders in elections, including the media, to take every candidate seriously so as to also offer a fair playing ground. 