The Mumias Sugar Company politics marred the burial of the company’s managing director Nashon Aseka's son as Jubilee and NASA leaders clashed. There was open rivalry during the burial of Tom Aseka on Saturday in Butere as the two political sides blamed each other on who is responsible for the company woes. NASA team was led by its co-principal Moses Wetang'ula, MP Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Ayub Savula (Lugari). The Jubilee side had Majority National Assembly Chief Whip and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and politician Rashid Mohammad. The clash started when the MD invited the politicians, warning them to tame their tongues at his son’s burial ceremony. MP Mwale, who was the host, invited Washiali. But Washiali said he is a senior politician and he expected Mwale to have known that. “My friend Mwale didn’t tell you who I am. I'm not just an MP, but the Kenyan government Chief Whip. The only one in the republic, so when you call me, do it with respect,” Washiali said. “We won’t discuss the Mumias Sugar Company politics today, but those who will speak, let them tell us what they have done to the company.” Washiali's statement opened up the discussion on the company woes. Savula claimed he was among those people who proposed the position of the MD to be given to Aseka. “When it comes to the factory, we will join hands to ensure Mumias is revived under the leadership of Aseka,” he said.  When Rashid, a former Jubilee parliamentary aspirant for Mumias West, was given a chance to speak, he said NASA politicians are to blame for the problems that face Mumias Sugar.  He said NASA leaders had stolen and benefitted from the company funds in earlier years. “We have suffered for a long time because of crooks who come here to steal from our company. Most of them are associated with NASA,” Rashid said. Rashid’s statement didn’t go well with the NASA brigade and they asked him to apologise. Mwale took swipe at Washiali, saying he is close to President Uhuru Kenyatta, but has failed to urge the Jubilee administration to revive the company. “Washiali you are the Chief Whip. When you sit with Uhuru at State House don’t just drink beer, tell him Mumias Sugar has a problem,” he said. Mumias Sugar Company started milling last month after it had closed for more than six month due to financial difficulties. When Wetang'ula took to the podium, he accused Jubilee of misusing the Luhya resources and its factories. “The Nzoia Sugar Company is almost dying, Mumias has many problems and they also sold the Pan Paper Mills,” he said Wetang'ula said Jubilee has done little to uplift sugar farmers. “Last year, Uhuru went to Central and wrote off debts of coffee farmers worth Sh7 billion. Then he brough Sh1 billion loan to Mumias and expects Luhya’s to dance for it,” the Ford Kenya party leader said. Jubilee government has used Sh3.7 billion in bailout cash to revive the Mumias Sugar Company. Wetang'ula said they are rallying NASA MPs to support a motion on amendment on the reintroduction of Sugar Development Levy. “Under the reintroduction of the sugar development levy, we will have funds to help our factories to conduct annual maintenance and crop development,” he said. Aseka son's, who was a student at Strathmore University, died last week in his sleep. The postmortem showed he had a blood clot in his veins. The MD eulogised his son as God-fearing person.            