Al Shabaab's frequent road attacks have forced Lamu East residents to abandon buses and travel by boat, which is costly. Many people cannot afford the typical Sh20,000 to rent a boat. The fare is less, maybe Sh2,500, if the boat is full. As a result, many people just stay home. The long distances and costly boat fare are major problems for pregnant women and anyone who has a medical emergency. "Al Shabaab have made life very difficult for us. Traveling has become a nightmare because the road is impassable. We can't afford to leave like this anymore,"  Kiunga Nyumba Kumi elder Muhashiam Famau said.  Kiunga is one of the four areas close to the Lamu-Somalia border where the security operation is heightened. Others are Mkokoni, Ishakani and Kiwayu. KDF has declared the Kiunga-Hindi road out of bounds. It is the main road that links Lamu East to Lamu town. Al Shabaab have been targeting both security and passenger vehicles with IED attacks. The residents have asked both the county and national governments to improve security on the road for normal travels to resume. Traveling by bus costs just Sh500. "Traveling is our biggest nightmare. the government should ensure buses are back on the road as soon as possible," Mkokoni administrator Zulekha Kupi said. Kiwayu religious leader Mohamed Salim said al Shabaab had caused them immeasurable poverty and pain. "They are also responsible for the ban on night fishing. 90 per cent of Lamu natives depend on fishing. It is our source of livelihood," Salim said. Fishing mostly thrives at night when fish visibility is down.         enof hig   Residents of Lamu East have opened up on how
insecurity caused by al Shabaab militants in the region has caused a sharp spike
in the cost of travelling from the region to other parts of the county. Most affected residents are  close to
the Lamu-Somalia border, including Kiunga, Ishakani, Mkokoni and Kiwayu. xxInitially the areas  were accessible cheaply
by road but with the increasing terror attacks residents believe
the only safe mode of transport is now by water.  residents of Lamu East who want to move from
the border areas to any part of Lamu have  abandoned the roads and are
now using boats to travel by water to their destinations. However the new shift isn’t without a hitch as
residents decry the costly expense of travelling by boat most of which have to
be hired since there are no passenger boats plying the newly established
routes. Hiring a normal speed boat from Kiunga to Lamu town
is not less than Sh.20,000 which is too costly for many. Residents are now calling on the national government
and address the issue of insecurity permanently so that
people can resume using roads which they say was way cheaper. Speaking in Kiunga on Thursday, Muhashiam Famau, a Nyumba Kumi elder, said the main road of Kiuna-Hindi is impassable due to the fear of attacks. and as such
the only option is for people to travel by water which is costly. xxxAl shabaab has been targeting both security and passenger vehicles plying the route and
blowing them up using IEDs leaving scores dead, including children. Famau says
as such passengers vehicles plying the route have completely stopped using the
road for fear of being attacked. “Normally
travelling from Kiunga to Lamu by bus costs just Sh500 but that goes up five or
six times if you go by boat," Famau said. It could be as high as Sh20.000 per person, he said. He said if the boat is full, the fare could Sh2,000 to-Sh2,500 per person  Residents are
now complaining on the increased cost of living due to insecurity in their
areas and want the security officers to do more to address the situation. They want
the government to boost security on the Kiunga-Hindi road to enable resume
normal travelling on the road which they find affordable.  “Al Shabaab
have made life so hard for us.Travelling is the biggest nightmare. Our road is
impassable due to the frequent IED attacks.We cant use the
Lamu-Kiunga road because its currently under security operation by KDF and so
we have been told its out of bounds.We cant afford this.We don’t even know if
we can afford to live like this anymore.People prefer not to travel and if you
do,you literally run broke doing so,”said Famau.   Hiring a boat from Mkokoni or Kiwayu to Lamu also costs at least Sh20,000.   According to
Zulekha Kupi,an administrator  in Mkokoni,pregnant women and children suffer most in this situation when medical emergencies arise. Zulekha called
on county and national governments   to establishing a referral
hospital in Kiunga  to save lives of many people who can't afford boat fare to King
Fahad County hospital in Lamu town. “Whenever
pregnant women have complications,we have to rush them to Lamu county hospital.hiring
a boat costs not less than Sh.20,000.Many cant afford.Poeple have lost loved
because they couldn’t afford or sometimes the patient just cant stant the
distance and dies midway.When we used to go by road,it was way faster and
cheaper too,”said Zulekha. Mohamed Salim, a
religious leader in Kiwayu island, says al Shabaab has caused immeasurable poverty and pain. Salim said the economy has also suffered, especially because of the six-year-long night ban on fishing, an anti-terror precaution. “At least
90 per cent of natives here are fishermen.Its our source of livelihood.Having done this
for nany years,I know that we make the most catch at night when the fish have
reduced visibility.H.All this is thanks to
Alshabaab.The government must do more because its unfair to live like this,its
like we are the mercy of the Alshabaab,Allah forbid,”said Salim. Ends…photos attached