Football pundits in the country termed the National Super League as the toughest and the most competitive league in the country and this has come to be as three teams remain in contention for promotion to the SportPesa Premier League with just a match to go. Initially, the contest had four potential candidates but KCB crashed out of the race following an unwanted 1-1 draw with St. Joseph Youth over the weekend. KCB have 75 points. The race may see third-placed Wazito being crowned champions if the clash pitting Ushuru and Vihiga United end in a draw. However, this will only materialise if Wazito emerge victorious in their final match against . Ushuru pinned the already relegated Mosca 1-0 at Camp Toyoyo to take their points tally to 78. Vihiga United rallied from a goal down to fry Bidco United 3-1 at Thika Sub County Stadium. Mark Kwasira had given Bidco an early lead in the 15th minute but the lead did not last long as Amos Kigandi saw his effort deflected past the goal-line to restore parity for Vihiga 12 minutes later. Godfrey Airo registered Vihiga’s second goal in the 66th minute before veteran midfielder Charles Okwemba put the game beyond doubt with a bullet header in the 89th minute. The win left Vihiga perched on the second spot with 77 points same as third-placed Wazito, who have an inferior goal difference. Wazito charred Kibera Black Stars 2-0 to stay on course for promotion, courtesy of Erick Odhiambo’s double. Nairobi Stima beat FC Talanta 1-0 at Karuturi, courtesy of Patrick Ndwiga’s strike. Administration Police were awarded three points and two goals after Palos withdrew from the league citing financial problems. The paramilitaries boosted their chances of survival as they were left in need of just a point to beat the drop. That result means that victory in their last match this Saturday when the National Super league season concludes will at the very least assure them of a promotion/relegation playoff against Thika United who finished third from bottom in the KPL. Meanwhile, Agro Chemicals were relegated to the third division at the expense. The Kisumu-based side was dissolved over the weekend putting Agro’s prospects of catching up with AP hopeless.