President
Uhuru Kenyatta will have to get rid of some of the Cabinet Secretaries whose
performance is below the bar. They are deadwood and should go home. More than
seven should go home. They have not served Kenyans well. But
others have performed well and they include Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed
and Water CS Eugene Wamalwa. They are the ones who are likely to remain. I
know Uhuru will also try to reach out to the regions that were excluded during
his first term. These are the opposition-leaning regions. There has been a
big problem in terms of politics and uniting the nation. First, he is going to
expand the Cabinet to have a maximum of 22 CSs so that he has enough space to
accommodate the areas secluded in the first Cabinet. I also expect more
politicians than technocrats in his new Cabinet. Some of the guys who lost in
the election are likely to find their way to the Cabinet. Read: Tough task for Uhuru as swearing in plans start Uhuru
must get a Cabinet that has the face of Kenya. He must balance between the
technocrats and politicians. He can retain those who have delivered. The rest
can be sent home so that Kenyans can experience good governance that addresses
corruption, tribalism and incompetence. The
issue of corruption is very tricky, he picks people and sends them home but
corruption remains rampant in the government. If
you have loopholes and non-functional structures you will still find it hard to
fight corruption. The
new Cabinet will define his legacy. It must accommodate as many people as
possible from across the country. Those who won’t find their way to the Cabinet
can be appointed Permanent Secretaries, and others are likely to be appointed
as managing directors of state corporations at least to have an inclusive
government. The country is polarized and he must work hard to unite Kenyans. In
2013, the Cabinet was basically a Jubilee government because we had 8 Kikuyus, 8
Kalenjins and a few Somalis here and there. After protests, the likes of Eugene
were brought in. In fact, they did not create a new Ministry for Eugene but
hived off the Water docket from Judi Wakhungu to him.   The
deadwood has to go. The issue of Ruto running in 2022 must also come in. They
must form a Cabinet that will help Ruto reach out to new communities.  The writer is a political
analyst Click here for the latest political stories