Strathmore University ‘Scorpions’ ended champions Telkom Orange’s run of 13 matches without conceding despite falling 3-2 in a Kenya Hockey Union Premier League match at the City Park yesterday. Telkom, 19-time champions, had a perfect start to the season, winning all their opening 13 matches without conceding as they threaten to retain their title in an unbeaten run. The match brought two of the most tactical sides in the league and Strathmore lived up to the expectations, breaking the Telkom defence but that will count for nothing as failed to get anything out of the encounter. The students looked enterprising right from the word go but could not utilise the many chances they created in the opening exchanges. The were to pay the price for their frailties as experienced Lilian Aura intercepted a move by Scorpions in the seventh minute, picking up an unmarked Jackilne Mwangi with a long pass. With just the goalkeeper, Tasha Maria, to beat, Mwangi no made mistake in slotting home the opening goal. Audrey Omaido would have doubled the scores a minute later when she made a successful dribble past a number of defenders only to see her shot go wide. The Telkom defence looked vulnerable whenever Kenyan international Gilly Okumu was with the ball, giving Telkom rightback Lucy Wangeci a busy afternoon. However, the champions showed mettle as Glen Namajole picked a poor pass in the Scorpions area in the 26th minute to tee up Barbara Simiyu who unleashed a powerful attempt to give Jos Openda’s side the second goal. A similar mistake found Simiyu at the right place, easily intercepting and subsequently slotting home their third goal and her second in the game. The health lead seemed to rattle Scorpions as they returned from the break breathing fire. Okumu evaded several opposition players in the 44th minute only to be denied by the woodwork. The rebound was, however, tapped in by Dennise Bila. The goal, which was widely celebrated by the fans affiliated to the university side saw the champions lose concentration and had to be tactical in handling the rejuvenated opponents. Barbra Atigo made it two for Scorpions in the 52nd minute from Elizabeth Ngombo’s short corner but Telkom held till the final whistle. Telkom assistant coach Josephine Ataro said: “Scorpions were strong. In fact, they gave us a run for our money. They have improved a lot. The girls are disappointed to have their perfect record broken but we shall work on the errors we committed. Next we face USIU-A, another strong side and I can assure you the mistakes we made today shall not reappear.”