Kenya Police ‘Chafua Chafua’ have dismissed allegations of poor officiating during just concluded final leg of the Sportpesa national boxing league in Mombasa .  Police deputy coach John Waweru instead asked their opponents and detractors to concede defeat and desist from making ‘wanton allegations’ in the press. “When our boxers lose, we always respect the judges decision but when KDF lose they always cry foul,” said Waweru posing: “Are they the only ones in the league who are robbed?” Attempts to reach Army coach Sammy Magima proved futile. Magima, a longstanding Kenya former flyweight international, was quoted as saying Police, who trailed them by three points at penultimate stage, were favoured and didn’t deserve the title. He complained of massive malpractice by police officials in several bouts.  But Nairobi coach Musa Benjamin also vehemently complained of the loss of his boxer Dennis Muthama to Police boxer Maurice Ochieng in the flyweight category.  “It will be wrong and meaningless for our boxers to set foot on the ring when match results are predetermined,” Benjamin lamented.   Another source, who spoke on condition of anynomity charged that most Police officials are an influential lot in the BAK committee and have always taken advantage of their positions to suppress other boxers, an issue Waweru dismissed vehemently.  “When Gicharu was beaten by Isaac Meja in Nakuru, we didn’t complain, we conceded defeat. In Mombasa, he won fair and square. Now our opponents are up in arms over Gicharu,” Waweru added. One of the most controversial match in Mombasa was Gicharu’s victory against Meja which made all the difference with Police pipping KDF to the title by a solitary point on homestretch.  Police retained the league title with 103 points, one ahead of their perennial rivals. Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK chairman John Kameta, however, promised to investigate allegations of foul play and poor officiating. He lashed out at the Army officials and reiterated that Police victory is deserved. This year’s edition has been a two-horse race, pitting police and army boxers with 1999 champions Prisons coming a distant third on 27 points.  KDF won the opening leg but lost to Police in the second leg. KDF recovery in the third leg and fourth saw them go into the last round in Mombasa with a three point advantage which Police managed to surpass albeit controversy. “Unless this infamous trend is put to an end by BAK, we will end up with wrong boxers representing Kenya,” continued the source. 