Are Kenyan voters going to be permanent passengers during election periods?   This is the question Raila Odinga asked an audience he addressed in the US at the weekend, maintaining the issue of exclusion has engulfed Kenya to its core and must be dealt with. The Opposition leader boycotted the October 26 vote saying it would be unfair to go into a race whose results he claimed had been predetermined. President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner after garnering 98 per cent votes in the re-run with a 38.84 per cent turnout. The Supreme Court called the repeat poll on September 1 when it annulled the original August 8 presidential election on procedural grounds. "Our votes must count. If they don't count there is no need for being in that country called Kenya," the National Super Alliance leader said.  Raila noted powerful countries have disintegrated over time due to rigged elections. "We cannot be one when one or two people want to make sure they rule the country. We have 44 tribes," he said. Related: 'Balaa': Ruto shocked that 'Raila went to US to scuttle 2022 bid' Also read: Fresh election will serve Kenyans justice, Raila tells US' Republican Institute "VOTING NOT A SHOW" Raila said all the tribes have a right to rule in one way or the other without being looked down upon. "...all of them are there [because it is their] right and must be respected. Our biggest issue is exclusion. Ethnic exclusion is the major issue that must be addressed," he said. He added Kenyans are being employed on the basis of their names, not qualifications and performance. "When young people go for interviews for employment, it is not how they perform at the interview that matters but their name. Their name becomes the first consideration before their performance. This is something we must do away with." Raila further maintained that Kenya must do away with leaders who are elected by computers. After the August election, the ODM leader referred to Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto as computer generated leaders. "When we go for an election, people turn up to vote. We can't have a situation where voting is just a show, then by the end of the day it is the computer which determines who wins," he said. "Hatutaki vifaranga vya computer (we don't want computer-generated leaders)...this is very important ...we told our people we will not complain about rigging." Last week, Raila said anger over last month’s presidential election ran so deep htat it threatened to tear the country apart. "Mainstream Kenyans feel so deeply cheated that they are openly toying with the idea of secession," Raila told an audience in Washington DC. More on this: Raila roots for six-month interim government for constitutional review A small number of politicians in the Opposition have discussed the idea of his strongholds seceding from Kenya but it has not gained wide popularity. Raila’s supporter base is concentrated along Kenya’s coast, in city slums and in his western strongholds, areas that have traditionally felt excluded from political power and the opportunities for patronage it offers. His supporters are currently boycotting three companies they say are backing the government.  The Opposition chief, who has demanded a fresh election in February, said they will not stop pushing for the creation of People's Assembly. The motion for the assembly has been passed in Homa Bay, Vihiga, Busia, and Siaya county assemblies. Raila said groups of elected leaders, church and civil society bodies will pass resolutions to usher in a new constitutional structure through a referendum. Read: Laikipia MCAs reject NASA's People Assembly Also read:Bomas Draft key to ending political stalemate, Raila tells Kenyans in Washington DC