A 19-year-old househelp is to be charged in a Kiambu court with murdering her employer’s 16-month-old son in Lari last month. Yesterday, Malep Opisa appeared in court but did not take a plea. Lari DCI requested two more weeks to investigate. Opisa is accused of killing Nzuki Mutinda on October 5 — barely two days after she was employed. Her former employers said she left Mutinda bleeding on a sofa and fled. “Mutinda had a bloody face and was unconscious. People came and we called a taxi and rushed him to the AIC Kijabe Hospital.” Mutinda died while undergoing treatment. The baby had scars on the face — an indication he might have been hit with a blunt object, Lucy Njuguna, the distraught grandmother said. Opisae has been on the run every sinces.  Police have been hunting for her and urged members of the public to supply information leading to her arrest. Lari police boss Isaiah Odhiambo yesterday said Opisa was arrested on Monday in a Kakamega village, where she had gone into hiding. “Our officers from the DCI used a lot of intelligence until they found her,” he said. The baby’s family says Opisa was employed to look after Mutinda by his mother, Catherine Wanjiru, who works in Ruiru town. Wanjiru’s mother Lucy Njuguna last month said her daughter brought her grandson to her in Bathi village, Lari, because she didn’t have a househelp. “The househelp she had earlier had stopped. She brought her son home as she was waiting to hire another househelp,” she said. They were introduced to Opisa by a friend, and she came to their home on October 2 and started working on October 3, Njuguna said. “We started looking for a house girl, and we were connected to Opisa by a friend. I received her from Kakamega,” she said. She added, however, that she went to her farm in Kambaa village and left her grandson with Opisa. “I fed him porridge and I asked her to cook and feed him lunch. I left for Kambaa village,” Njuguna said. But before she went back home, Wanjiru called to ask whether her husband had come to check on Mutinda. The husband had said he would pass by. Njuguna called Opisa, but her mobile phone was switched off, she said. She decided to go back home to check.  The home was “eerily quiet” when she arrived, Njuguna recalled.  She called Opisa, but she did not respond. “I pushed the door and started screaming,” Njuguna said.