There was double joy in the home of Kiambu county CEC health Dr. Jonah Manjari Mwangi who was sacked after Governor Waititu led administration sacked him landing him to the same CEC position in Nakuru county with his son Carlton Manjari scooping top marks of 425 in Juja preparatory academy. Manjari has been known in kiambu county for exceptionally transforming the health sector where he spearheaded for Kiambu, Gatundu level four hospital upgraded to level five status and streamlined service delivery and oversaw the construction of new health facilities and overseeing maternity wings in all health centres across the county were fully functional. However he did not escape the being sacked as new governor set in to office and immediately was shortlisted for the same position in Nakuru county. He passed the assembly approval and has been sworn in as the CEC health in Nakuru county bound to start his duties on Monday next week. He shares the joy with his son Carlton Manjari who sat for his KCPE exams this year managing to top his school with 425 marks at Juja preparatory Academy. Manjari speaking in Kiambu on Wednesday after receiving his results said that he worked hard and through the support of his parents and teachers he was able to overcome his fear of exam and did the exam to his best. "my hard work has paid off and i thank my parents for providing materials for me to learn and my teachers for supporting and helping me in my studies and thank God i passed as i did not expect the results i expected lower but i managed good marks,"said Manjari. He aspires to go to Alliance high school and go through university to study civil engineering. Mwangi however said that due to his tight schedule of being a county executive member has been hard for him to be there all the time to take his son through studies but took necessary measures to provide with necessary materials for learning. "Even though my son does not want to emulate my profession i will support him  as i have supported him with everything needed to learn,"said Mwangi.   ENDS..................      