Jubilee and NASA
affiliate parties are facing a tricky balancing act as they pick Kenyan’s representatives
to the East Africa Legislative Assembly. There is intense lobbying by the hopefuls for the nine slots available to Kenya at
the EAC Parliament, with about applications having been received. President Uhuru
Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and NASA leader Raila Odinga are
expected to have a huge say on the final list that will be tabled in
Parliament for approval. Read: Mutea Iringo, ex-MPs feature in list of EALA MP applicants Jubilee has five
slots, ODM has two, while Wiper and ANC have one seat each under the new
formula agreed on by the leadership of Parliament. Regional, ethnic
representation and gender balance will largely influence the appointments, with
political parties keen to exploit the opportunity to reward loyalty. ODM is particularly in
a delicate position to satisfy a lot of regional and gender interests in
the two slots available for the party. Raila’s brother Oburu
Odinga, ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire, ex-Prime Minister’s political adviser
Silas Jakakimba and former Wajir finance CEC Salah Adan are among the party heavyweights
that have applied for the EALA jobs. ODM is also under
pressure to pick one representative from Northeastern, given the party
has no nominated MP from the region. Jubilee nominated two MPs from the region.  Jubilee and NASA MPs from the region are said
to have crossed ranks to make sure one of their own is picked to EALA. During his August 8
campaigns Raila promised to give one EALA slot to Wajir County specifically but
it is not clear if his position then remains the same. Read: Oburu, Mungatana among ex-MPs eying EALA slots, 75 bids presented Yesterday, National
Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale confirmed the final decision on who
makes it to Jubilee’s lucky five will be made by Uhuru and Ruto. “Our party list must
have the face of Kenya by having an ethnic, regional and gender diversity,” he
told the Star. Duale said Jubilee
will have three men and two women, even as he challenged NASA to give at least one
woman in their list.  Although political parties will individuality pick
their representatives, the leadership in  Parliament is said to be keen to
ensure at least each of the former eight provinces have a representative
at EALA. Jubilee
will seek to reward political loyalists, who were convinced to step down in favour of their rivals.  In Nairobi, for
instance, former Kamkunji MP Simon Mbugua is hoping to be rewarded after he was successfully
convinced to step down for Yusuf Hassan. Click here for the latest political news