The week when all eyes were on the Supreme Court finally came, en if you are that Kenyan who expected an encore from CJ Maraga and his Supreme sqwaaad, ur definitely left with mouth agape! This time around the ruling was an anti-climax with zero sideshows, as all the pettions were thrown out and filing made at 10am in exactly 10 minutes. The son of Jomo will be sworn in Tuesday for his last and final term, en all #TheRaverend can ask for is  can he make his last five count for something solid!  Talking of solid, as the Supreme Court was closing the chapter of Siasa that has eaten 2017, Rao was on holiday in Zanzibar... The leader of the Resistance couldn’t resist some rest, and while he was on vacation, he took a selfie with a Kenyan fan based in Zanzibar. All I can tell Kenyans on social media is that don’t be too quick too judge the captain... It was just a picture, we all take pictures all the time with friends, we can’t resist taking pictures, no one has asked anyone to boycott pictures!  Elsewhere, other special Kenyans from the Mananasi aka Pineapple Republic were busy digging a hole... The hole in question was not an ordinary hole but a hole that made them 50Mic richer... So with that action-packed week, #TheRaverend on the other hand was having slay queen issues that I need to address very candidly.  As #TheRaverend I have come upon many types of Slay Queens, but in the recent past, I have managed to classify my SQ’s in four categories. SQ one is the type that you go out with, enjoy the night, and when you go back home, she wakes up before you, doesn’t demand anything, takes a shower, calls her own cab and leaves your house like nothing happened... This particular SQ is very special and rare, because she rarely calls, and chances of a repeat performance are very rare because she has defined the art of no-strings-attached...  Then comes SQ number two. Unlike SQ one, she will come over, will be on air to leave but only when her phone rings and she has to attend to another  king’s needs, plus she will make up some sort of story that will force you to send her some cash or make a pledge of some sort! SQ two never leaves empty-handed, because if she realises you are stingy, she will make sure she leaves with your property, e.g., the king’s sweat pants/top, Flip flops, T-shirt/shirt, etc. She has to carry a souvenir, but just like SQ one, she will eventually leave... Then comes SQ three, who will enter your house Friday, eat your food, shower like that’s the only shower she has had for weeks... eat more of your food, then try to make herself comfortable by confirming if kuna mpango! SQ three is the type that will stick to you like glue as long as thez a plan, and in case the plan is over, you will pay for cab and the cab that will bring her pal, who is always in call to bring her change or clothes, shoes and make-up in case of emergency.... The final SQ is slay queen number four. She is the type that you don’t need in your house because once she checks in, checking out issa problem! SQ4 is always on a mission of taking over... SQ4 will never wake up before the king, but as soon as you do, she will follow by making your bed... Once the bed is made, she will join you in your favourite seat in the living room and start some dumb conversation like “Last night was lit, how many women do you normally bring home with you?” en when you fall for that shit, the next thing SQ4 does is start asking hard questions like, “Why is a guy like you not dating?” “Why did you break up with your previous GF?” At this point, SQ4 has established all your weak spots and getting rid of her becomes a rumour...  SQ4 is so intelligent, she can end up moving into your space and life even before the weekend is over if you’re weak... SQ4 never shows signs of leaving, she makes herself so comfortable, she will force you out of your own home....SQ4 never wants to leave the house once she is inside... In fact, SQ4 is willing to sleep if you decide to go out with your boys, pretending she is too hangovered and can’t party two nights in a row... It normally takes a covert operation to get rid of SQ4, it is mission impossible. She will start calling your house help or the cleaning lady by her first name minutes from entering your home....She switches off her phone, wears your clothes and keeps warm and blends in so fast like furniture... SQ4 is like a super IDP. Getting rid of her is impossible because she sticks like super glue...  So dudes, take free advice from #TheRaverend, aka secretary general TeamMafisi and select your slay queens wisely this weekend, before your one night stand ends up as a come we stay, en Mugabeing her becomes a challenge then your end up living frustrated ever after, like how most Kenyan fairytale relationships go.