Homeboyz face KCB in the semis after coming from behind to beat Quins 20-16 in the Impala Floodlit tournament over the weekend. The deejays were slow off the blocks in the opening quarter of the encounter as Quins dominated possession and territory. Eric Shikuku gave Quins the lead with a penalty in the third minute before Kelvin Masai levelled matters with a well taken drop goal in the eighth minute to tie the match at 3-3. Quins re-took the lead again courtesy of Shikuku after the Homeboyz forwards were caught offside for a 6-3 lead. Quins grew in confidence and it came as no surprise when fly-half Isaac Adimo touched down for an unconverted try at the corner and an 11-3 lead in favour of the Ngong Road outfit. Pius Shiundu then scored Quins’ second try just before the interval following good build up play by the forwards for a 16-3 lead at the interval.  A half-time pep talk by Homeboyz coach Paul Murunga worked wonders for the deejays who came out firing on all cylinders in the second half. Burly number 8 Steve Otieno began the comeback scoring off a maul with Kelvin Masai converting the try to reduce the margin to 16-10. Debutants Mohammed Omollo, who joined Homeboyz from Impala during the transfer window, then provided energy for the deejays and scored the second try and converted it for a 17-16 lead to stun Quins. The game ebb and flowed and it was Omollo who kicked over a late penalty to seal the win. KCB beat hard fighting Kisii RFC 20-14 to book their spot in the semis. The 2015 Floodlit champions ran in three tries as Bonab Were, Marlin Mukolwe and Felix Ojowi crossed over for KCB. Essau Otieno had a penalty and conversion for the bankers. Boaz Ombura and Alvin Marube scored a try each for Kisii. KCB led 10-7 at the interval.  Mean Machine upset Strathmore Leos 11-6 to advance to the semis. Eric Muthuma slotted home two penalties with James Oluoch scoring the game’s only try while Ian Lumwaji kicked over two penalties for the Leos. Machine will now face holders Impala in the semifinals.