Having already taken some impressive scalps in the ongoing Kenya Airways East African Safari Classic Rally, Briton Richard Jackson and his partner Ryan Champion took it easy through the first stage of Day 7 in South Coast’s Mwambungo area to extend the lead over Kenya’s Baldev Singh Chager. Such was the scenario as cars pulled in for the third successive night-stop at Neptune Beach Resort in Diani, where searing heat has been the order of the day. Jackson’s Tuthill Porsche returned fourth fastest on the day’s opening stage (CS16) at Mwambungo, having clocked 40.53 minutes. This is here Kenyan Baldev ‘Boldy’ Chager unleashed his full pace, going 44 seconds quicker than 1984 world rally champion Stig Blomqvist.  In Jackson’s wake, Chager grabbed the attention in the early morning run with the one stage win and second fastest on the last one Raaji Bharij was delighted with third fastest time at Mwambungo which saw him maintain fifth place ahead of Stig.  Jackson backed off in the first stage, citing rough conditions and said: “It was a very rough run and we lost a bit of time there. We are still in front and there’s two days to go and anything can happen. Our main plan is to get to the end and it would obviously be nice to win. I think in the history of this event, there has been Kenyans winning apart from the two years when we had the Swedish former champions winning. So if we are going to have a British and in particular somebody from Yorkshire, we would be delighted.” Kenya’s Carl Tundo (Triumph TR7) clung to third position but found the going somewhat manageable as compared to Tuesday’s Tanga route on Day 6 which featured the event’s longest stage of 155km. “Not much of a tough rally today. We only did 70-80kms but it’s hot and it’s sweltering hot inside the car. Unfortunately, they cancelled the middle sections. Apart from that, I drove slowly and I can’t catch the guys in front because it’s rough so am settling for third.” Chager admitted that Jackson and Ryan were putting much pressure on them. He said: “Richard and Ryan are doing exceptionally well. However, he had the disadvantage of being first on the road today. We picked a little time on him in the first stage, second stage got cancelled, and third stage Ryan beat us by about 15 seconds so it’s a very tight race. Two days to go and we will keep the pace and keep the pressure.” Bharij said the first six days have been really tough. “Just learning every day and figuring things out and it seems today (yesterday) was the magic day where we figured everything out. We got the car set up right at service. This morning, we were third fastest and I think we might be the second fastest. We are happy about that, given that we have a car with less power than the rest.” The Connolly brothers were all smiles. “This morning we knew the stage was going to be rough and it really was. So we backed off and didn’t want to damage the car and took it very gingerly and hopefully we haven’t lost much time,” said Jonathan Connolly. Stage 17 was cancelled because it was too rough and competitors were instructed to proceed to CS 18. Onkar Rai is the latest casualty of the marathon event after his Porsche developed a mechanical problem that forced him out of the Day Seven start list. Eighteenth-placed Scott Armstrong and his navigator Harpal Sudle are rallying to raise funds for a playground for the only Children’s Cancer Hospital in Central and Eastern Africa, which is based in Eldoret. Shell is happy so far with its involvement with the rally. “We applaud the entire Classic rally fraternity from the drivers to the organizing team. Happy to see that the top contenders in this race are all Kenyan.”