The IEBC is considering scrapping some senior positions in a new management structure. It seeks to reduce regional election coordinators and managers from 17 to 10 in the first major changes. The electoral agency is also keen to scrap the position of deputy chief electoral officer in charge of operations. There have been questions about the IEBC’s ability to conduct free, fair and credible polls. NASA indicted the body and snubbed last month’s repeat poll. The internal changes are meant to reduce costs and improve efficiency.  The powerful and influential deputy chief electoral officer (operations) position has been critical.  It is at the heart of the delivery of the IEBC mandate. It is at the core of poll operations. The docket has been under Betty Nyabuto, who exited the commission yesterday after her five-year contract expired. Nyabuto was due to leave in early August, but her contract was extended by three months so she could oversee the August 8 election. She succeeded former CEO James Oswago as acting CEO for slightly more than a year in 2014. Yesterday, Nyabuto said she did not seek renewal of her term. “I leave with my head held high because of the great achievements we made during my stay at the commission,” she told the Star. Another commissioner, who spoke on condition of anonymity, yesterday told the Star that the commission is likely to do away with the position to reduce the reporting structure and ease supervision. “This would help cure the destructive silo mentality that we believe has affected the commission,” the commissioner said. Under the proposed structure, operations will now fall under the office of the Deputy Chief Electoral Officer in charge of Support Services. This is headed by Marjan Hussein. Hussein was appointed in March 2015 to succeed Wilson Shollei, who left after he was indicted for irregular purchase of voter identification kits. His term ends in 2020. Hussein was in charge of the project team picked by chairman Wafula Chebukati to oversee the October 26 presidential rerun.