NASA is likely to lose one slot in East Africa Legislative Assembly. This is because a new formula will be used to calculate the number of slots each party will get. Last week on Thursday before the House adjourned, a heated debate ensued between Jubilee Party and NASA on whether the formula used in the 11th Parliament will be used or a new one will be applied. While Jubilee, which enjoys numerical supremacy in both the Senate and the National Assembly, insisted that a new formula will be used in consideration of the performance of parties at the August General Election, NASA on the other hand wanted the formula used in the last Parliament to apply. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale told the House that in the next nomination, which is set to start any time, Jubilee will be entitled to six slots. The opposition will get only three of the nine available slots, he said. "Let it be on clear record that this matter is now being dealt with by the 12th Parliament. The 11th Parliament went and its story is gone. If you had five slots, you now have six and if you had four slots ,you now have three. The rules of the game will be as per the amended rules that we did in the 11th Parliament," Duale said.  "Out of the nine, six slots belong to Jubilee Party. The other three can be shared in whatever way by NASA." He said the opposition will decide if all the three will go to ODM, Ford Kenya or Wiper. Duale said the failure by the 11th Parliament to dispense the matter has played to the advantage of Jubilee. "Jubilee was supposed to provide five members and Cord was supposed to provide four members, based on the parliamentary strength," he said. "Our colleagues then, in the 11th Parliament decided not to play by the rules, which say that 27 names were to be brought to the House for members to elect nine persons. Our colleagues refused." But in a rejoinder, Suna East MP and ODM's Director of Election Mohamed Junet dismissed Duale's formula, saying NASA will get four slots. The second term MP said the dispute over the number of slots allocated to each party should be arbitrated or mediation be undertaken "going forward".  "We understand that my side of the opposition gets four slots and the majority party gets five slots. But the leader of the majority has used his own discretion to divide the slots. He says Jubilee Party will get six and NASA will get three," Junet said. "Numbers have not changed much. The people who are more in number in this House are the independents."