The protests that followed the October 26 repeat presidential election in certain areas exacted a heavy toll on the macroeconomic environment. Human life, limb and property lay wasted, and it may be some time before the full damage is quantified. Often lost in this narrative is another unfortunate victim — the road network. Fires melt the asphalt, compromising the evenness and general aesthetics of the road. Widespread vandalism damaged the road furniture. Bridge barriers were cut and welded to block roads. Road signage was not spared either. This is not to discount the disruptive effects of human action that may not be necessarily tied to a protest like right of way obstruction through erection of illegal bumps and encroachment on reserves. Illegal barricading of roads, which has become a standard feature of most protests, carries potentially debilitating economic ramifications, particularly for our landlocked neighbors in the Great Lakes region. Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and even eastern parts of the DRC rely on our infrastructure, as part of the Northern Corridor, for the movement of their exports and imports. Initial estimates by road management agencies put the financial toll on roads occasioned by the protests at Sh130 million. This money will be drawn from the sector allocation for the financial year 2017-18 for repairs. Programmes under the current budget will suffer. It is Kenyans, including the protesters, who will be left to pay the bill at the end of the day. According to the Kenya Rural Roads Authority, cases of road damage by fire and vandalism were rampant in Kilifi, Kwale, Malindi, Lamu, Mombasa, Mwatate and Voi. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority recorded similar destruction in Kibra, Dagoretti and Mathare. The Kenya National Highways Authority links most of the damage to fires, barricades, illegal bumps and vandalism. An audit by these agencies points to a catalogue of roads directly affected as a result of the protests, mostly in Western. They include Kehancha-Suna-Masara, Masara-Muhuru Bay, Mbita-Homa Bay-Katito, Homa Bay-Rongo and Kendu Bay-Kadongo. Others are Awasi-Chemelil-Nandi Hills, Luanda Kotieno-Owimbi-Bondo-Siaya-Rangala, Osieko-Bondo-Kisian and Masara-Sori-Sindo-Mbita. Kisumu-Kisian-Maseno-Luanda, Kisumu Bypass-Kisumu-Nyamasaria-Awasi, Rongo-Awendo-Migori and Rodi Kopany-Ndhiwa-Karungu. Road construction is expensive, albeit necessary, drawing heavily on the Exchequer, development partner loans, grants and resources to support economic development In a deliberate effort to transform Kenya’s road network — in line with Vision 2030 — the Department of Infrastructure has been allocated Sh482 billion over the 2014-17 period. But the demand for resources still far outweighs the budget. Going forward, there is need for greater public education on the importance of quality infrastructure. Besides being an enabler for the economy, the infrastructure subsector indirectly contributed a material 4.5 per cent to Kenya’s GDP in 2015. It is a great tool in poverty reduction and the creation of jobs. The other intervention is enactment of stiffer penalties for offenders and stricter enforcement of the same. Already, there is the Traffic Act Cap 403, which relates to obstruction, destruction of roads and vehicles, and the Kenya Roads Act 2007 that imposes a two-year prison term or Sh100,000 fine, or both, on offenders. The author is the Principal Secretary, State Department of Infrastructure        