A third-year student at Kibabi University in Kanduyi, Bungoma, died on Wednesday night after falling from the third floor of a hostel. Twenty-two-year-old Paul Ngetich, studying for a bachelor’s degree in Education, fell at around 3am and died on the spot. Vice Chancellor Isaac Ipara said Ngetich was caught stealing a subwoofer from a room in the hostel. The room owners called in security officers and Ngetich threw himself to the ground to avoid arrest, he said. Police are investigating. The university suspended learning for two days — yesterday and today — to give fellow students time to mourn. Some students supported the vice chancellors’ account. Others said Ngetich was ambushed and shoved out of the building.  Other students said Ngetich was drunk at the time of his death. Students want the management to address this issue with seriousness. Ngetich was from Harambee village near Kabula in Matungu, Kakamega. He lived in an off-campus residence and his presence on campus at that time raised questions. Suicide apparently was ruled out. Bungoma AP commandant Nicholas Ayoko urged students to be calm and patient to allow them to determine the cause of death. They had narrowed the investigations to two students — the occupants of the room where the deceased is said to have tried to steal a subwoofer. The duo recorded statements. “We had a call that one of the students had jumped from the third floor of the institution’s hostel,” Ayoko said. The body was taken to Bungoma Referral Hospital. The news disrupted learning for the better part of yesterday morning, before a directive suspending classes was issued. Students engaged in peaceful demonstrations, demanding action. The management complied with the students’ demand that learning be stopped to allow them to mourn. The learners urged police to investigate thoroughly. “Today is a very painful day for us. We woke up to sad news of our comrade’s death,” student Dan Omondi said. He was not a witness but said, “The student is said to have been caught stealing a subwoofer from a comrade’s room. After a struggle with the owner, he allegedly tried to run away, confused the path, fell from the third floor and died on the spot.” A similar accident occurred two months ago, when another student fell from a building, they said. The victim broke his leg. “We are shocked at how the body was hurriedly removed from the scene without proper police investigations,” one student said of the latest incident. 