Vihiga United coach Edward Manoah was yesterday buoyant on the team’s chances of being promoted to the SportPesa Premier League. Speaking ahead of today’s clash with former top tier side Nairobi City Stars at Mumias Sports Complex, Manoah said his players are focused on the promotion race. “My players are calm and focused. We are firmly in the promotion race and we need maximum concentration in our remaining matches,” said Manoah. He said team’s dip in form is now over. “Every season, each team goes through a lean moment and for us, it came at a very critical moment but we have now overcome it,” added the veteran coach. Manoah said he wants to avoid any slip ups in their push to make their maiden appearance in the SPL next season. In today’s match, the Vihiga County Government outfit will miss the services of Ugandan import Rashid Kyambadde, who is injured. He is expected to resume training next week, according to Manoah.  Over the weekend, Vihiga United narrowed the gap on Ushuru and Kenya Commercial Bank with a hard fought 2-0 win over relegation-bound Mosca. Following the win, Vihiga moved to within four points of log leaders Ushuru, who alongdside KCB have played one more game. Ushuru tops the table with 72 points while KCB are second with 70 points. Vihiga County-sponsored outfit is on 68 points. Nairobi City Stars derailed Ushuru’s promotion push when they came from a goal down to win 2-1 at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Jericho. In other matches scheduled for today, GFE 105 entertain sixth-placed Palos at Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret while tomorrow, relegation-threatened Agro Chemicals host Modern Coast Rangers at Muhoroni Stadium, seeking nothing but a win to lift them out of relegation zone.  Elsewhere, Mukumu boys’ secondary school eliminated Ebwali 6-5 through post-match penalties after both teams tied to 2-2 draw in normal time of the Chapa Dimba inter sub branch tournament at Chavakali High School. Ebwali stunned the students barely 16th minute into the match through Aaron Ombima. Mukumu replied through Reagan Mmellah 10 minutes later when he nodded in from a corner taken by Alvin Mang’eni. Mukumu doubled the advantage five minutes to the interval through Brian Munyendo with Humphrey Akhonya levelling the scopres for the rivals in the 12th minutes.