Kenyans love holidays so it is no wonder that many have appreciated the judiciary's reinstatement of Moi Day. The High Court said on Wednesday that October 10 will be a public holiday as its nullification contravened the Public Holidays Act. Justice George Odunga, however, did not specify how the holiday should be celebrated and left the matter to Parliament and the Interior ministry. Kenya had been marking the holiday since 1988, when President Daniel arap Moi marked 10 years in power but it was scrapped in 2010.  More on this: Justice Odunga reinstates Moi Day, to be marked on October 10 The constitution recognises only three public holidays: Madaraka Day (June 1), Mashujaa Day (October 20) and Jamhuri Day (December 12). The restored holiday saw some citizens on social media say Kenya is a country of holidays. Bett Amon used #HolidaysAreComing to thank the judge and say more breaks are needed. '@Amollo10' wrote: "In fact, they should backdate all of them and [reschedule them to] January.... We need a whole week...Moi Day n January 2018. 2011-2017 (Accrued Moi Day)." One Gitau termed Kenyan judges the world's best. "You want Moi Day...You get Moi Day," he said. Johny Demands added: "Moi Day was good. He was in charge and we felt safer than [we do] today. We should dedicate this days to him." '@jkemey' said: "Reinstating Moi Day in November is an illegality. It should have been done earlier in October. So will they also backdate the holidays that we missed?" Yishai Yishai said it would only be fair for acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i to declare a week-long break for the seven years Moi Day was not marked. Donald Kipkorir wrote: "Thank you, justice Odunga for bringing back Moi Day. My people, the Kalenjin Nation, have your back. We'll not forget." '@Atanasi_ 11h' also lauded Odunga, noting Moi served the longest as president, from 1978 to 2002 when Mwai Kibaki took over. '@ellydata' said" "How I wish Moi Day were on Thursday #TBT (Throw Back Thursday). I can start celebrating right from my bed. Harambee, wife and children! Nyayo!" But another Twitter user criticised the judiciary and the government saying the return of the holiday was reminiscent of "KANU's Dark days". '@maydouglas63' said: "Moi Day finally back as the nation is witnessing the recurrence of dark days from past regimes,"