  Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi wants judge Weldon Korir to recuse himself from handling a
petition filed against hoim by former Labour CS Kazungu
Kambi for being biased. Kingi, through his lawyers Ben
Mosota and Aoko Otieno, says the Malindi resident magistrate was
incapable of being fair, impartial and independent in the petition. The application was filed after Justice Korir
issued two rulings that allowed the former CS to deposit security of the petition
out of the stipulated time without any application to extend the same orally or
formally. In the eight-page application, the
lawyers said Korir demonstrated biasness towards the petitioner.
 The governor in the application said the trial judge can no
longer hold the scale of justice evenly and fairly between the parties in the
petition he had already shown to be favoring the petitioner. “The Judge predicted the two rulings to save the petition from
being struck out as per the law,’’ said the application in part. The application further stated that Justice Korir’s decision to extend
time to deposit security contravenes provisions of article 87 of the
constitution, section 78 of the elections act 2011 and Rule 13 of Election Petition
Rules. Kingi also wants the judge to order the transfer of the file to
Chief Justice David Maraga to gazette and appoint another judge to hear and
determine the petition. The former Minister who lost in the governor’s race moved to
court and sued the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC), and
County Returning officer Nelly Ilongo. Kambi was a KADU Asili candidate in the governor’s race for
Kilifi County. According to the governor depositing security for cost can only
be enlarged upon application and upon sufficient cause being shown since
extension of time is not a matter of right. Another petition filed against Kingi was struck out after
Justice Korir found out that the petition was filed out of time. He ordered the petitioner, William Kahindi to pay the governor
and his deputy a cost of Sh.600, 000. Ends  