The government intends to ban importation of digital television decoders currently in the market starting January 1, 2018. This comes barely three years after Kenyans were treated to a contentious switch from analogue to digital television. According to a statement uploaded in the Communication Authority website, importation of terrestrial and cable television decoders such as GoTv, Zuku, Startimes, DStv and Bamba will not be permitted. “The importation into Kenya of cable or satellite receivers/decoders that do not comply with the said digital video broadcasting, second generation terrestrial or satellite specifications shall not be permitted from January 1, 2018,” the statement said. However, decoder stocks complying with new standards that are already in the country prior to the said date shall continue to be used but shall eventually be phased out over time to pave way for the second-generation decoders. The ban will see introduction of decoders that allow internet connectivity through an ethernet port that is not available in the current decoders. This port will offer internet protocol television and video on demand services connected to an internet point of presence to decode digital television signals from an internet bundled service that include television services. This means that in the future, subscribers to the service will need internet connectivity to access television programmes. While this cannot be achieved in the twinkle of an eye, the authority has moved to standardise the current decoders by allowing them to have both the terrestrial port and the ethernet port for internet television. This means that users who are unable to afford internet bundles will access television programmes via the terrestrial port which, as it is now, has a limited number of channels. However, according to CA, the freedom to choose not to subscribe to internet connectivity will be short-lived since the authority plans to phase them out over time to pave way for the second-generation cable decoders. According to the new standards, subscribers who will use internet connectivity will have access to a minimum of 1,000 television channels. Speaking to the Star, technology expert Vincent Korir said this move means Kenyans need to adapt emerging technologies as fast as they can because eventually, the internet-connected decoders will have all the service currently provided by the decoders. “There is no reason to stay in an old system when you can get everything in this new technology, that’s the future but the change will be slow because we do not have proper internet architecture across the whole country,” he said.      