Bungoma MCAs have pledged to pass a motion to establish a People’s Assembly, a key element in NASA’s National Resistance Movement. NASA principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula introduced the motion on Tuesday. The People’s Assemby is expected to pass resolutions, including a declaration that the August 8 and October 26 presidential elections are invalid. The motion will be dispatched to 19 counties in NASA strongholds.  Homa Bay has passed the People’snAssembly motion, which creates a legal framework. The People’s Assembly already has been approved by the elected assembly in Siaya. Addressing the press on Wednesday at the county assembly, NASA ward reps and independents MCAs said they are ready to pass the motion. “NASA MCAs are the majority in the assembly. We will pass the motion,” Bokoli Ward MCA Jack Kaawa said. He said Bungoma is NASA zone and home to Wetang’ula. He said they will lead by example in Western Kenya.  “We in NASA want any person from whichever tribe be it — Teso, Pokomo, Bukusu or Kuria ­— to be able to be President, provided he has what it takes,” Kaawa said. He said MCAs will lead residents in their wards in boycotting products and companies listed by NASA leaders — so far, Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside. The People’s Assembly is to safeguard and promote devolution. “They will secure their financial ability with the ultimate objective of creating larger and autonomous devolved units in an indivisible nation,” Raila’s spokesman Denis Onyango said on Wednesday in a statement. The assemblies are expected to review the Constitution and recommend creation of a Parlimentary system to replace the current Presidential system. “This will be reinforce concrete measures to promote inclusivity, welfare of the marginalised, the advancement of women and youth, the eradication of corruption and poverty and to secure social justice, equality, and fairness,” Onyango said. The MCAs thanked Kitutu Chache residents for reelecting Ford Kenya deputy leader Richard Onyonka for a third term.  Ndivisi Ward MCA Martin Wanyonyi, an independent who moved to Ford Kenya, said Ford Kenya is the party to watch in 2022.