The weatherman says most of the country will continue to receive rainfall, though with reduced intensities. The seasonal rains began late last month, and have flooded some urban areas and swamped villages with dirty, muddy water. They have also triggered transportation chaos but meteorological services say the performance is good and will help crops. Met services director Peter Ambenje said the intensity will reduce in most places, but rise in others. Ambenje said Central highlands like Nairobi, Embu, Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Meru will have cloudy mornings blended with light rains and sunny intervals. “Afternoon showers are expected over few places for much of the forecast period, however, Saturday and Sunday may receive showers over several places,” he said in a seven-day forecast ending Monday next week. Coast will have morning showers over few places beginning today to Friday, which will intensify on Saturday and Sunday morning. Ambenje said in Western Kenya, the Lake Victoria basin, highlands west of the Rift Valley, central and south of the Rift Valley, mornings will be sunny while afternoons will be laden with showers and thunderstorms over few places.  This region comprises Siaya, Kisumu, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Kakamega, Bungoma, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Nakuru, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Nakuru and Kajiado counties. Northern Kenya, which flooded last week, will experience a slight relief. The northwestern counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have sunny intervals the whole day till Monday. In Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, there will be morning rains and afternoon showers today. “Thursday to Monday are expected to mainly experience sunny intervals the entire day,” Ambenje said. The weatherman says these rains will continue throughout this month because November marks the peak of the short rains season. He said the “good” rains are expected to improve agricultural activities in several parts of the country, especially the western and central regions. “Foliage and pasture conditions over most pastoral areas of Northeastern, Northwestern and Southeastern Kenya are likely to improve as the rains set in,” he said.