Over the last two weeks Kenyans have been treated to a charade of boycotts that started with NASA forcing people not to vote in the October 26 presidential election. It has now moved to a call to boycott three companies in the name of fighting for electoral justice. Unfortunately, this boycott is not going to hurt Jubilee supporters only but all Kenyans in general. NASA, however, seems misadvised on this approach, which it hopes will cripple the Jubilee administration without affecting its supporters. These economic boycotts are not a means to an end but a way of enriching a few opposition leaders. NASA leaders and their advisers clearly know that boycotts may have an immediate effect on the said firms but may not work at the end. One of the world’s most recent famous boycotts happened about 14 years ago. The 2003 US boycott of French wines, which quickly caused a 26 per cent drop in sales, had little long-term effects on either France’s wine industry or its politics. Within six months, the sales of French wines had returned to the same trajectory they were before the boycott. Of course we have seen some immediate effects on the boycotts on the three companies. But these effects are not choosing whether one is NASA or Jubilee: The impact is on all Kenyans. But it is curious that NASA has targeted only three companies, yet there are many others that supplied to the IEBC, or are even perceived to be Jubilee-affiliated. It is also sad that this boycotts target homegrown companies that directly affect millions of Kenyans. It is now evidently clear that NASA is using this boycott as a plan to extort from these companies and ask for ridiculous amounts to be favoured. There are allegations that opposition power brokers are moving to various companies extorting them not to be listed in the boycott plan. We must grow homegrown companies, not threaten and extort from them to enrich a few individuals. These companies are not only a pride of the nation but have provided livelihood for millions of Kenyans, directly and indirectly. Besides the boycott, it is unfortunate that selfish NASA leaders have resorted to secession calls as seen at the Coast. These ridiculous ideas are not aimed at empowering Coast residents, rather to create private fiefdoms for greedy leaders. Governors leading these calls know they will be politically irrelevant after serving two terms because they will have nothing to show for their 10 years, having squandered the money they get from the national government and are now claiming that their region is marginalised. To the contrary, the Coast region has, like the rest of the country, benefitted from devolution funds and projects from the national government. What we need now is the politics of unity and cohesiveness. This is not the time for reckless statements by leaders looking for fame and clout by destroying our country, while seeking immediate personal gains. NASA clearly does not respect the rule of law and this is why it is seeking to form parallel structures in the name of electoral justice. Electoral justice can only be achieved within the confines of the Constitution and through the courts. Additionally, the plan to establish People’s Assemblies is not only retrogressive but also a plan to execute a civilian coup on the duly elected government. We already have structures such as Bunge la mwananchi, which should have been used if their intentions were good. All Kenyans of goodwill must not allow an illegal resistance group to attempt to cripple the economy and cause destruction and chaos all in the name of selfishly seeking power through unconstitutional means. The writer is a political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda