Kenya Airways shares will not be trading for the next 10 days as the company embarks on a crucial consolidation process. In an announcement to shareholders, investors and the general public, the suspension starting yesterday is expected to continue for the next two weeks to facilitate the share split and simultaneous consolidation of the company’s shares which form part of the Kenya Airways Plc capital transaction. “Notice is hereby given on the suspension in trading of Kenya Airways Plc effective November 15, 2017 up to and including November 28, 2017,” said the notice that signals the start of the long process of repairing the company. The request that KQ had made to the Capital Markets Authority was approved on Tuesday, giving way to the suspension of their activities on the bourse, said a notice from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. “The balance sheet restructuring is not a silver bullet but is an integral part of the process of repairing Kenya Airways. However, it remains about execution over the next 36 months in an environment where competition is parked on our doorstep,” observed Aly Khan Satchu, a financial analyst. Satchu said it was always expected that the shares would need to be reconfigured, given the material adjustments to the shareholder register. “The solution proposed was the only viable one other than an outright sale. It’s a very long haul back from here, however,” he said in response to questions from the Star. The NSE said it will be waiting on KQ to advise them on the way forward after the 10-day hiatus. On Monday, Treasury along with 10 banks, converted the airline’s debt worth over Sh44 billion to equity, making them the majority owners with 87 per cent in stake. Under the new arrangement, the government’s debt of Sh23.7 billion was converted into a 19.1 per cent stake, raising its stake to 48.9 per cent, up from 29.8 per cent. The local 10 banks are expected to convert Sh16.72 of their Sh21.72 billion debt into a 38.1 per cent stake. KQ shares last traded on Tuesday at Sh5.30.