The Appeal Court yesterday dismissed claims that no appeal was filed on the eve of the rerun over the legality of county returning officers and their deputies. The High Court in Nairobi, through Justice George Odunga, ruled that the IEBC officers were hired irregularly. Odunga, in the case by Khelef Khalifa and Hassan Abdile, held that the IEBC did not follow due process when hiring the staff. Registrar Moses Serem confirmed that an appeal to stay Odunga’s ruling was filed by Emanuel Wetang’ula at around 4pm. The lawyer, who appeared on behalf of the IEBC, paid Sh2,850 court fees before the file was placed before the Court of Appeal president, Kihara Kariuki, for consideration. Justice Kihara then tasked Justices Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome and Fatuma Sichale to hear the application under a certificate of urgency. He said the three judges sat in an open court at around 4.30pm and heard the ex parte application before issuing the orders setting aside Odunga’s decision. Each judge had a file and made individual notes, the registrar said. Lawyer Apollo Mboya claimed no appeal was filed on October 25. This has been contrary to an order sent to newsrooms just a few hours before the repeat poll was conducted. “Was the application filed in the Court of Appeal to stay Justice Odunga’s decision? – No. Was it heard by three judges? - No. Are the judges from Nairobi? - No,” the former LSK chief executive tweeted. He went on to say contrary to court rules, a judge of the Appeal Court gave final orders staying Odunga’s decision and sent it for signatures of the other two judges. “The staff of the registry of the Court of Appeal are under pressure to backdate application filed post facto for stay of Justice Odunga’s decision,” another tweet by Mboya read. The three appellant judges were of the view that the decision had the potential to render the presidential repeat election irregular even before it was held. They said it would precipitate another election outside the 60 days in violation of the Constitution. The judges faulted Odunga’s decision, saying the Constitution does not expressly give the courts the power to alter election dates. “For the avoidance of doubt, this order means that the constitutional and statutory functions of the returning officers and their deputies relating to the presidential election slated for October 26 are not invalid,” the order stated.