IS the
Nairobi County government being run from somewhere other than City Hall? Well,
there is word that the Presidency is playing a pivotal role in the management
of the city. The whispers became louder after Governor Mike Sonko nominated Governance Adviser to the Presidency Peter Kariuki as the new county
secretary. Some people doubt whether the man from Machakos is really in control.
Key slots in the city county, sources whisper to Corridors, have been filled by
powerful individuals in the Executive. But maybe Sonko is appreciating his
masters for standing with him in the gruelling duel against Evans Kidero. ** IS the self-proclaimed ‘five-star’ National Resistance
Movement General Miguna Miguna
receiving threats for joining Raila Odinga’s
political bandwagon? The outspoken Miguna caused a stir when he took to Twitter
saying some individuals allegedly associated with Jubilee were calling to
threaten him. He said, “I know that NRM is succeeding in its primary mission
when Jubilee Party and its criminal enterprise and state agents are calling and
threatening me from these numbers....” The eloquent city lawyer, however, vowed
to remain firm in NRM asking its “patriots” not to relent in their economic
boycott and resistance against President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s administration. ** DID an ODM Senator have something personal against newly
elected Kitutu Chache South MP Richard
Onyonka? Well, our little bird had a moment to peep into a platform where
the opposition MPs were pouring their congratulations on the newly elected
Ford-Kenya MP on Wednesday morning, and then, from nowhere, an ODM senator hit
at that third-term MP, warning him not to “ever open your big mouth” and abuse
Jakom (as NASA leader Raila Odinga is referred to) again. ** AN
ex-governor has panicked over massive queries raised by the Auditor General.
The former county chief was overhead telling a contemporary at a Nairobi hotel
he fears for his life. Apparently concerned that he may be summoned by the
Senate to respond to the queries, he said he thinks things may go south as his
nemesis won a senatorial seat. Worse still, his former competitor could chair
the powerful and influential public accounts committee of the Senate. “It is a
painful experience appearing before that committee,” he said. The ex-governor
is under the microscope for blowing up billions of shillings in foreign travel
and entertainment, given his penchant for trips abroad. **    