Security was yesterday heightened at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, ahead of the President's swearing in today. This is even as the government defended the Sh384 million budget for the event. The committee planning President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's swearing in said the one-day inauguration event will not take the whole amount, but the money will also cater for Jamhuri Day celebrations. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, a member of the committee, clarified the expenditure of huge sums of taxpayers money on the function, following intense criticism from the public. Committee on the Assumption of the Office of the President chairman Joseph Kinyua announced the event's budget last Friday at a press conference. “We would like to state that Sh300 million budget is not for the swearing in alone, but it caters for the Jamhuri Day celebrations happening in this stadium in the next two weeks,” Kibicho said. Security had been heightened both inside and outside the stadium, with heavily armed military officers manning the place. People, including journalists and participants in the today's inauguration, went through thorough screening and were required to produce special accreditation badges to access the area. Motorists accessing the stadium were also required to surrender their driving licences to military officers at the entrance before accessing the venue and then pick when they leave. Inside the stadium, rehearsal were going for the better part of the morning. Military officers mounted the guard of honour parade, while Judiciary Chief Registrar Anne Amadi rehearsed how she will lead Uhuru and Ruto in taking the oath of office. Entertainers for the inauguration also finalised on their variety of presentations, including songs and dances. The sound system was also being tested. National flags for countries such as Ethiopia, Uganda, South Sudan, Israel, Botswana, China, Somalia, Rwandan, Djibouti, Lesotho, Zambia and Tanzania were hoisted at the venue, indicating that the nations' delegation has confirmed their attendance. “We have received many congratulatory messages from foreign countries and we have more than 43 delegations who have confirmed attendance,” Foreign Affairs PS Monica Juma said. Kibicho and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, among other top government officials planning the inauguration told the public to turn up very early and be settled by 9am. "Security will be tight and expect the public attending to cooperate with strict security checks. We have already zoned the roads due to a high number of dignitaries present," Kibicho said. He said the stadium's gates were to be opened at 4am ahead of the event's official kick off at 10am.