Quins winger William Ambaka has rejoined the Kenya Sevens squad ahead of the 2017-2018 season. Ambaka returned to the squad after his contract with New Zealand side Manuwatu Turbos expired at the end of the Mitre Cup competition last month. His arrival will be a big boost to the national team especially in the forwards, with long-serving skipper Andrew Amonde ruled out for the next three months after sustaining a hernia injury during the Christie Sevens. Team manager Eric Ogweno said they are delighted to have the big, physical utility back in the side, terming it as a timely boost. “He brings wealth of experience and will provide leadership alongside Collins Injera, Oscar Ayodi and Dennis Ombachi. His game has gone a notch higher during the short time he has been in New Zealand and will be not only good for him, but also for us as a team,” said Ogweno. Kenya are pooled alongside champions South Africa, Canada and neighbours Uganda at the World Sevens Series opening leg in Dubai next month. Shujaa missed the Assupol Sevens in Stellenbosch, South Africa over the weekend following a visa hitch and have also pulled out of the Safland Sevens slated for November 11-12 in Namibia. The 26-man squad started a 10-day residential camp in Nanyuki today with the squad expected to be whittled down to 18 by mid this month in time for the start of the world series. Ogweno said the training camp will also a be a bonding session for the setup ahead of an expected grueling season. “We have a tough season ahead and apart from training and looking at our systems of play and the combinations to use, the boys will also have a bonding session,” observed Ogweno. The team will then return to Nairobi on November 10 and continue with their preparations before jetting out for Dubai in late November. Elsewhere, the Kenya Rugby Union championship has retained the conference format for the 2017-2018 season. This competition, which serves as the second tier of Kenyan club competition, will once again feature two conferences of six teams, each playing home and away round robin fixtures and a crossover fixture against teams from the other conference. The top two sides will secure promotion to the 2018/19 Kenya Cup with the bottom two sides relegated to the Nationwide regional leagues.