Homeboyz edged Quins 41-39 in thrilling Kenya Cup tie played at the RFUEA ground yesterday. The match was scheduled for last Saturday but was postponed to allow time the burial of former Homeboyz players, Peter and Andrew Wekesa, who perished in a road accident in Mombasa a fortnight ago. It was the deejays who settled early and took the lead courtesy of Mohammed Omollo in the fourth minute for a 3-0 lead . The deejays dominated possession and territory and were rewarded with the opening try when new signing, Dalmas Chituyi, touched down for an unconverted try and an 8-0 lead. Quins regrouped and battled their way into Homeboyz’ territory and were rewarded when fullback Eric Shikuku crossed the whitewash to score an unconverted try for an 8-5 deficit. Omollo kicked over a penalty in the 18th minute to give the deejays a six point buffer but the hosts piled on the pressure and halfback Kelvin Njuge kicked over a penalty to reduce the gap to three points at 11-8. Quins grew in confidence as skipper Patrice Agunda broke the visitors defence and on the tackle, offloaded the ball to Shikuku who touched down with Njuge adding the extra two points for a 15-11 lead in favour of Quins. In a tipsy-turvy match, Homeboyz scrumhalf Michael Wanjala probed and found a gap in the Quins’ defence to cross the chalk with Omollo converting the try and an 18-15 lead. Omollo punished Quins forwards indiscretion at the breakdown with a penalty just before halftime to give the deejays a 21-15 lead at the interval. On resumption, Quins came out firing on all cylinders camping in the deejays 22 and flanker Peter Misango burrowed over the line with Njuge converting to see Quins retake the lead at 22-21 Homeboyz fullback Israel Soi went on a scorching 40 metre-run from his half before passing the ball to the supporting Cyprian Kuto to score an unconverted try and a 26-22 lead. The try fest continued minutes later when veteran Tony Mutai barged over the line for Quins from a line-out with Njuge converting for a 29-26 lead. Omollo, who was having an outstanding game for the deejays, turned defence into attack from his own half and fed Kuto to complete his brace with Omollo converting for a 33-29 score for the deejays. Quins were not going down without a fight and Misango scored his second from a rolling maul and a 34-33 lead for the home side. Soi was once gain to turn provider when he fielded a cross kick by Haroun Lubisia and fed fullback Nelson Sangura who dived over for 38-34 lead. Omollo added a penalty in the closing minutes of the match for 41-34 score before substitute Malcolm Onsando scored a late consolation try for the hosts which Njuge failed to convert.