The pre-Independence period has a great lesson for Kenya, which has just gone through the most divisive electioneering period in recent history. For a country that needs to immediately get on the path to healing, it is important to closely examine the past. Historians who have documented Kenya’s past have all recorded something in common — that Kenyan communities were never separated and their borders were too fluid. In fact, they say that Kenyan communities intermarried a lot before the colonialists decided to use the different ethnicities to divide and rule. In his book The State of Africa: A History of the Continent since Independence, Martin Meredith notes that following the Mau Mau uprising, the British ensured that all those in standard one to four were taught in vernacular. This was aimed at ensuring that ethnic identity came first. In fact, the British worked very hard to ensure that the Luo and the Kikuyu never formed a united front, which would have been uncontrollably rebellious, thus cutting short colonial rule. In the late 1950s the Luo-Kikuyu alliance forced the British to release Jomo Kenyatta from detention, paving the way for independence. This alliance was short-lived. The Luo and Kikuyu took different paths just years after Independence, with Kenyatta as head of government and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga leading the opposition. The British divide-and-rule policy was reborn and entrenched locally to this day. Even after the October 26 repeat presidential election, we are experiencing the divide-and-rule policy, just like our forefathers. President Uhuru Kenyatta has been declared the winner and Kenyans are very keen to move on with their lives and put this very long election behind them. However, the announcement by Raila Odinga that he is forming a resistance movement has kicked off what is likely to be a turbulent unconstitutional rebellion in Kenya. The election has served as a platform for leaders to turn tribe against each other in the name of democracy. We have been made to believe that Kikuyus are against Luos, and vice versa, and that certain tribes have militias and hate other tribes. At every turn, comments like a Kikuyu-led government is killing Luos are thrown around ,as if they are the norm. On social media, friendships that were made from childhood have been broken and most people have had to clean up their friends’ lists, with many being removed and blocked. We have become intolerant of each other, looking at politics through ethnic lenses. Posting a simple political message has become a heavy task, as some will first check your name to figure out your tribe and either call you a NASA sympathiser, or Muthamaki supporter based on your stance. Even the most objective of political commentaries are dismissed or praised depending on the commentator’s name or tribe. The truth is that we cannot change tribalistic leaders, as this appears to be their chosen path. However, we can change the mindset of Kenyans so that in future, only leaders that unite the country will be elected. After President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta is sworn in, his first duty must be to work on ensuring that we establish a way of healing our deeply fractured, divided and tribal society. He has gotten a mandate, in the two elections, from across all tribes and he has the sole duty of ensuring that the nation remains one. In addition, we must think of how to initiate programmes, from primary school, to promote intermarriage, break stereotypes, jail tribal leaders and aggressively promote unity. It is time we even thought of having a ministry that is in charge of cohesion, with the sole aim of uniting the nation in every sphere. Radio messages and TV programmes should be created to enhance unity, especially targeting the youth. As individuals, we must preach unity amongst ourselves and avoid allowing politics and politicians to divide us. We are one nation, and the 44 tribes make our country stronger, not weaker.     Political and communications consultant  @MachelWaikenda  