Jubilee leaders from Bungoma have dismissed as inconsequential, a move by MCAs to pass the People’s Assembly motion on Tuesday evening.  Led by MPs John Waluke (Sirisia) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) and former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khangati, the leaders said the motion has no value to residents.  They asked MCA's who passed the motion to resign, saying they had given their powers back to the electorate. ''These MCAs should be recalled because they no longer have the mandate of representing their electorate," Waluke told the Star yesterday. The passage of the motion saw scuffles between Jubilee and NASA members. It had been tabled by majority leader Florence Wekesa.  Waluke, who is also the Jubilee party chairman for Bungoma, questioned the hurry with which the motion was passed. He said MCAs had taken the move without understanding the implication of the motion. ''It is regretful that our MCAs decided to be misled by the opposition leader Raila Odinga. I'm sure they will regret their action,'' Waluke said. Wanyama said the motion is a recipe for division in the county. According to Wanyama, residents from various communities living in the county voted for tdifferent presidential candidates and that the motion could cause ethnic cracks between them. The People's Assembly is the opposition's way of holding forums in the counties as they plan for a next course of action after boycotting last month's repeat presidential election. NASA says it does not recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta.  ''This motion will divide our people along tribal lines. What if people of Mt Elgon, who voted for President Uhuru Kenyatta, say they only recognise Uhuru and nobody else,'' Wanyama said. He accused the MCAs of sycophancy. Khangati said the motion is a double edged sword for the MCAs. "They have sharpened a knife that will be used cut themselves," Khangati said.  "How can they pass a motion that has no value and will only agitate residents they should be aware that next its them who should lose their seats," he said. He said that the people of Bungoma are peace loving residents of Mulembe who ought not to emulate bad political behaviors from Nyanza region. Ends....  