A tear gas canister was thrown at Raila Odinga's car before fire was opened, his daughter Winnie, who accompanied him back from the US has said. This is according to a statement on Monday by the NASA leader's adviser Salim Lone. Winnie said a gunshot was what damaged the windscreen of the car he travelled in from the JKIA in Nairobi. The car was damaged on Jogoo Road as he and Winnie moved along surrounded by his supporters. More on this: Windscreen of Raila's car damaged on Jogoo Road Also see: [Photos] Raila lands at JKIA amid gunshots, tear gas Lone said "laughable assertions that no bullets were used that day" were used to dismiss the claim of any such attack. Interior ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka dismissed reports of attempts on the opposition leader's life. "Claims of an attempt on Raila's life that are being circulated on social media are false and absolutely baseless," he said via Twitter on Friday. Police spokesman George Kinoti said police did not use live bullets. But the adviser quoted Winnie as saying: "It came of the blue, this huge blast of a tear gas canister hitting the car from one of those weaponised throwers you have seen in videos. That was immediately followed by other hand thrown canisters and at least half a dozen gunshots that hit the car all around us, of the kind you associate with AK47s. "I just could not believe that the former PM's car was actually coming under fire in broad daylight with scores of witnesses looking on." Winnie said the ammunition which hit the windscreen did not go through given the Range Rover is bullet proof. 'The most frightening moment was when a bullet hit the windscreen and shattered it. Had it not been a bullet proof car, that bullet would have hit Mzee. Two bullets also hit the car on the side I was sitting." The NASA principal, who has been termed the people's president, was not hurt and proceeded to Kibra where a rally took place. Raila said he had returned with good news from the US but could not deliver it because of the chaos that erupted. He said he was disappointed that police officers shot some of his supporters. Raila noted it was unfair for the government to deploy officers to "aimlessly shoot" at supporters who braved the cold to receive him at the airport. More on this: I'm so angry with UhuRuto, Raila says after cops 'shoot aimlessly' at supporters Also read: 'Why do they want to kills us': Raila's supporters served tear gas, bullets