Oral sex, smoking, drinking too much alcohol and a poor diet can all increase your risk of mouth cancer. But do you know how much your lifestyle is raising your risk of the disease? A new test has been devised to answer that question. Nine in ten mouth cancers are caused by preventable lifestyle factors, experts warn. Yet the majority of Britons do not consider themselves to be at risk of mouth cancer, despite many admitting to smoking and drinking excessive amounts of alcohol, new research has shown. Oral Health Foundation found that more than three in four (78 per cent) of adults were unaware of the effects. Dr Nigel Carter, chief executive of the charity said: "More than nine in 10 mouth cancers are linked to lifestyle factors and the only way to curb this risk is by quitting or reducing habits such as smoking and alcohol. "Mouth cancer is still a relatively unknown disease, with many still unaware that you are able to develop cancer on the tongue, cheeks, lips, head and neck. "It is important to be aware that cancer could develop in this area of the body, especially if you regularly exposure yourself to lifestyle choices which have been linked to the disease." The survey of more than 2,000 people showed that almost one in five (18 per cent) of those polled smoke, while nearly half (48 per cent) drink alcohol on a regular basis. Close to a third (31 per cent) confess to having an unhealthy diet while more than one in ten (11 per cent) have oral sex more at least once a week. Some types of oral cancer are linked to sexually transmitted human papilloma virus (HPV) infection in the mouth and throat. Latest figures show the number of new mouth cancer cases each year in the UK has exceeded 7,500, an increase of more than two thirds (68 per cent) in the last 20 years. More than 2.5 million British adults exceed the recommended 14 units of alcohol weekly while there are an estimated 8.5 million smokers. The current lifetime risk of mouth cancer in the UK is higher for men - one in 75 - compared to women - and one in 150. That is because males are more likely to smoke (18 per cent vs 17 per cent), are a fifth more likely to regularly consume alcohol (57 per cent vs 40 per cent). The research shows men and are twice as likely to perform oral sex (14 per cent vs seven per cent) compared to women. Click here for more health news Click here for the latest political news