Kenyan striker Michael Olunga failed to make it to the final list of five for the Confederation of African Football African Player of the Year 2017. The Girona FC and Harambee Stars striker was among the big names that fell off the provisional 30-man list released on November 1. He became the second Kenyan to make it to the shortlist after Victor Wanyama of Totenham. Olunga features for Spanish side Girona after joining on loan from Chinese Super League Guizhou Hengfeng Zhicheng. Chelsea forward and Nigerian international, Victor Moses and Liverpool’s Sadio Mane headline the final list of five that also includes ‘African Antelope’, Borrusia Dortmund’s pacy forward, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of Gabon. On the list also, are Mane’s clubmate, Mohamed Salah of Egypt and RB Leipzig’s central midfielder, Naby Keitor from Guinea. Mane has four of Senegal’s nine goals in the World Cup campaign besides having abysmal performances in the English Premier League. Salah scored Egypt’s goal which saw them back to the World Cup, taking his national team tally to five, in the campaign. Nigerian Moses was a profound figure in the Chelsea title-winning squad that grabbed the title from Leicester City last season. The Award Gala will be held on January 4, 2018, in Accra, Ghana. Meanwhile, Mosca FC bade farewell to the National Super League after squandering their final chance of survival, falling 1-0 to Bidco at Camp Toyoyo yesterday. The Ministry of Sports-sponsored club bitterly watched as their final attempt go down the drain following Geofrey Nyakeri’s strike in the 45+1 minute. Mosca head coach Kisco Kariuki named his strongest side for the encounter. First choice goalkeeper Evans Adache took his position with a quardruple of Kouassi Emmanuel, Morris Oliech, Bernard Otieno and Michale Muya. Godfrey Barar combined with Sammy William in shielding the back four while Tetieh Olesu and Solomon Kelo operated on the flanks. Dhibart Muma and Dennis Odhiambo were tasked with delivering the goods in the 4-4-2 line-up. His Bidco counterpart Simon Mwangi fielded Charles Wagonda in between the posts as Jacob Onyango and Lambert Oyugi were deployed at rightback and leftback positions respectively. Kassim Mwinyi and Sean Opwora were at the heart of the defence as David Kitasao, Mark Kwasira and George Amayu marshaled the midfield. Geofrey Nyakeri, David Juma and Heritier Luvualu completed the 4-3-3 formation. Mosca have managed a paltry tally of 15 points from 33 games are now headed to the Division One League. The win catapulted Bidco four places to 11th with 40 points.