If there was anything we could do to stop, or even postpone, death, I would climb any mountain to delay the demise of Dr Wahome Gakuru, at least for five years. A man of Gakuru’s dreams and vision should not have to die at such a time. Not when he has just risen to one of the most important positions in his career – Nyeri governor. And not that Gakuru hasn’t been in positions of power. Far from it. He has been the head of one of the country’s most prestigious institutions — Vision 2030; and he was a director at the National Economic and Social Council - Office of the President. He also served as a senior manager at the National Aids Control Council and was, not so long ago, a director of strategic management and advocacy at Equity Bank. He is also one of Kenya’s most distinguished management professionals. Why would I want Gakuru to live longer? Exactly one week to the August 8 election, I travelled all the way to Nyeri for an interview with the then-incoming governor (he had won the Jubilee nomination and it was a given he would win, given the country’s voting patterns). I left convinced that Nyeri wameangukia (Nyeri had struck gold) in Gakuru. I am not trying to suggest that all the other 46 governors have no visions and aspirations for their counties, but from my own observation, Daktari probably had the best and most sincere visions for his county. Being the pioneer Vision 2030 director general, his dream was to replicate the aspirations of the national economic blueprint in Nyeri. In his words, Nyeri was going to become a model county where all the others would turn for lessons on how to manage a devolved unit. It was possible to believe him, first judging from his past record and second, from his professional background. For a start, it was during his time at Vision 2030 that we really got to understand, and felt, what the blueprint was all about. Today, though still there, no one really knows exactly what is happening with the vision. Secondly, Gakuru was not a politician. And with very scanty success stories to tell from the counties, he represented a fresh start. The expectations were that with his impressive professional experience, he could introduce a new style of county government management, setting the stage for a mind shift in future governor elections. In addition, and with his vast connections nationally and intentionally, Gakuru was poised to transform Nyeri radically. From the smallholder dairy, tea and coffee farmers to maize or chicken farmers, he had a dream of transforming agriculture from a subsistence practice into a rewarding agribusiness. He wanted to create new markets for the county’s products to the benefit of many. In the health sector, Gakuru was to lead a massive transformation by first addressing the perennial go-slows that have bedevilled many counties. He was going to spearhead an elaborate equipment upgrade plan at all the major health facilities. In the education sector, Gakuru, being an educationist himself, had vowed to lead Nyeri into reclaiming its lost glory as an academic giant nationally. In a nutshell, Nyeri was earmarked to attain a middle-income status in the next five years under his leadership. This now hangs in the balance. It’s indeed a great loss not only for Nyeri but for the entire country. We have lost one of our most valuable sons. Rest in peace,Daktari!