Governor James Ongwae has urged the Kisii High Court to dismiss a petition challenging his election saying it is "incurably defective". Ongwae, through his lawyer Okongo Omogeni, said petitioner Lumumba Nyaberi did not present the court with substance to allow arbitration. Making his submissions on Wednesday, the lawyer said the petitioner only listed respondents in the case. These are the IEBC, returning officer Sidney Namulunga and Ongwae in that order. "I urge this court to dismiss the petition because it is incurably defective," he said.  Read: Result alterations in 196 centres helped Ongwae win – petitioner Also read: Judge declines to disqualify herself from Ongwae petition Omogeni further told the court that the petitioner's main case does not mention Ongwae and only lists DG Charles Birundu and Laban Chweya as respondents. He also said most of the complaints Nyaberi touched on Chweya and Ondari, not Ongwae. The lawyer added the petitioner had no business dragging the court into issues of
Wiper Party and that the "complex defects" in the petition showed it could not be sustained. "The petition has glaring mistakes which are repeated in Nyaberi’s sworn affidavit."   This came after Nyaberi, through his lawyer Sonye Ondari, said they were ready and wanted hearings to continue. Nyaberi had filed an application to withdraw from the case and justice Hellen Omondi directed on November 27 that he serve the parties with the application. But the case went on because the deputy registrar had not served parties with a notice on the application for withdrawal. "We are ready to proceed with the hearing of the petition because the deputy registrar failed to supply us with a notice as ordered last week," Ondari said. Nyaberi wants the court to compensate him for funds used in campaigns before the August 8 poll.  The first petitioner - Joel Makori's lawyer Omwanza Ombati - also objected saying they were not given the opportunity to reply. The case continues. Read: Tallying errors didn't affect final Kisii election result, ROs tell court Click here for the latest political news    