With less than 40 days to Christmas, and hours before the Supreme Court make their Supreme Verdict, I’m still deeply madly in love with my November. My beard game is still going strong, not to mention my beard gang is growing bigger by the day. The beard-growing stint is all in support of creating cancer awareness #NoShaveMovember!!!  Baba, the leader of the Resistance, is back in town from the US of A with a bang; with his supporters boycotting work to welcome him home. What I don’t get is why cars were stoned; a truck was burnt on the Southern Bypass.  Moving away from politics to matters social affairs, #TheRaverend wants to mulika female pimps (Fe-Pimps). These women specialise in pimping their fellow chicks to rich men and sponsors. Fe-Pimps are the in-thing in most urban cities. Unlike back in the days when we had the official Madam Boss who ran brothels in secret, now we have young women who share pictures of their pals on social media, aka WhatsApp, to potential buyers, who in return make mobile money transactions. When the girls on the menu are selected, they are ferried to various house parties and clubs. The young girls on offer on the menu range from 18 to 26 years!  The potential customers for this niche market are prominent politicians, businessmen and fathers/husbands. The cost of the hookup is not less than 5K per girl, depending on the number of girls and distance of the house party. The pimp keeps 30-40 per cent of the cost. The cost of the girls also vary with the age of the potential clients and destination. That is, if the guys is prominent and over 45 years, the pimps take the top of the creme and they charge about Sh30,000 per girl. If it’s an out of town plan, the pimps don’t take anything less than 50K...Most of the girls are jumping on the opportunity to be pumped to make a quick buck...Others do it in order too fit in because having an old rich man sorting out your bills is the thing, not to mention posting pics of exotic clubs, locations or hotels on social media gives you serious street credit. So to all the hustlers who are dating chicks with very expensive phones, hair, clothes and shoes, trust me her side hustle is escorting. When your chick is always travelling and her social media is poppin' like her father is President Uhuru Kenyatta, trust me she be selling something more than her body... This week, the Raverend turned into a debt collector. Why? You may ask. Because Kenyan event organisers and promoters wamekuwa matepeli, aka con artists.  It’s wrong for any talent to sign up for a show and not get paid...It's wrong for event organisers/concert promoters/club promoters to advertise an event, collect money from sponsors, and still snake paying the artists or emcees who grace the event.  It is plain criminal for event promoters to take money from sponsors and then turn around and start playing Tom & Jerry with the artists and suppliers. #TheRaverend has hosted some of the top events in Kenya in 2017 and I haven't been paid a single cent for 70 per cent of the events...Some payments are overdue more than six months, with a couple of them bouncing...Sad part is, the events that don’t pay are those that bring international artistes and have the biggest sponsors...So before I call people thieves, or take them to the Supreme Court, I think it’s only fair to give them notice. Next week I promise to mulika all these promoters who are thugs....So if you are an artist, DJ, emcee or supplier who hasn’t been paid, help me name and shame the person and company that owes you. Kindly send me a DM on my social media because next weekend"  #TheRaverend is calling out all thieves who masquerade as event organisers/promoters and I will share that list with EMAK!!!