  In
these times, especially for millennials, the perception is that the US is the
land of dreams from all perspectives: The land of milk and honey. Undeniably, the
US, despite persistent inequality claims, towers high above other nations in
various ways. Its minimum wage stands at $7.25 per hour. In short, the least
paid staffer with the Northern American country takes home around Sh120,000.
Further, the nation does not tolerate corruption neither does it give room for
human rights abusers. Naturally, every developing country would fervently wish
to be the shoes or place of the US. What
many do not appreciate is the continued struggles borne by the Americans in
their clamour  to enjoy what they do
today. Their 1776 independence was the result of a revolution that united all
the states against the British colonies. Fast-forward to the 1800s and the
battle to end slavery started in earnest. Southern states vehemently fought
against this development in a process that threatened to divide the country.
The Civil War of 1861-1865 is another product of this struggle. Successive
generations have found a nation accommodating many fights ranging from the
right of women to vote all the way to black people emancipation. It can be told
that no developed country has endured struggles and revolutions in the same
depth as the United States.  In that
spirit, therefore, the people of Kenya must first internalise one reality: That
the agitation for an equal country did not end with the granting of
Independence by the British colonialists. If anything, that was the start of a
sustained collective goal towards creating a clear, united trajectory, and one
which every Kenyan can conform to. The immediate assignment was to galvanise
the collective goodwill of the Kenyan people towards a conciliatory path that
could see all view each other as brothers or sisters. Therefore, the first
point of action is to gravitate towards anything that unites us. To see the
bigger picture of a country that is sensitive to everyone’s needs and feelings.
To visualise fabric that creates a substantial identity identifiable by all
Kenyans, within or without the Kenyan borders. Whether
the founding fathers of this country did or did not do their part in uniting
Kenyans should be an item behind us. The current national conversation must
illuminate on our current status with a view of accurate profiling in a manner
that can see us get the future right. What is happening currently in the political
sphere suggests that we need to deeply soul-search before taking the next step
of action. Regardless of the political fellowship, Kenyans must see if we have
to keep on tearing each other after every five years. The hope for stable
institutions that can efficiently guide national processes must not be lost.
Let us supersede current emotional feelings to analyze what we want for our
children and the generations to follow. Back to
the US scenario, the founders of the nation were keen to base the country on active
uniting principles. One of the fundamental principles was that any government
of the day had to be representative and must, at all times, present the wishes
of its people. The difference between the US and Kenya is that, whereas we can
capture the words similarly, the commitment to staying true to the word varies.
In that case, therefore, the results are bound to be different. May you take
time to keenly ponder on the Kenya you want and equally reflect on the state of
your commitment to keeping your word.   Gibson
Wambugu is an economist and a commentator on governance issues.