At least 17,000 jobs will be created when the first phase of the Sh9.8 billion Konza Techno City is completed. Yesterday, Kenya and the Korean governments signed a loan agreement for the establishment of Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology. The agreement was signed by National Treasury CS Henry Rotich and the Korean Ambassador Kwon Young-dae. They were flanked by the PS State Department for University Education Prof Collette Suda and PS for ICT Victor Kyalo. KAIST, funded Korea, is expected to bring the latest technology in Kenya and enhance the quality of higher learning. It will also help nurture a technologically advanced population to produce creative young talents. Rotich said the signed framework arrangement for grant aid will form the basis of future sectors for cooperation in education, health and water. Sh414 million will go into developing the National Industrial Training Authority situated in Athi River. Sh441 million will go into primary school environment and capacity building project and Sh519 million will be used for the improvement of water supply system in Bungoma. No money has been set aside for improving the accessibility of health service. The CS said its yet to be determined. Sh20.7 million will go into improving and upgrading the Kitengela Health Centre. "Phase I of KAIST will be located on 400 acres at Konza Technopolis City and will create 17,000 jobs," Rotich said. The agreement was signed between Rotich and the Korean Ambassador Kwon Young-dae. They were flanked by the PS State Department for University Education Prof Collette Suda and PS for ICT Victor Kyalo. Also present were Konza Technopolis Development Authority chairman Reuben Mutiso and the CEO John Tanui. Suda appreciated the move, saying the establishment of KAIST will not only enhance capacity building but also advance skills in technology development. KAIST is the first and top science and technology research university in Korea and has been the gateway to advanced learning, innovation, and a driving engine for the development of Korea for past four decades. Establishment of the institution in Kenya will enhance the quality of higher learning while nurturing a technologically advanced population hence producing creative young talents and leaders. Click here for the latest political news