Homeboyz’ playmaker Augustine Lugonzo will miss the two opening legs of the World Sevens Series in Dubai and Cape Town next month. Lugonzo has since joined Kenya Prisons Service and will have to graduate before rejoining the Kenya Sevens side or his club, Homeboyz. Kenya Sevens team manager Eric Ogweno said the player will rejoin the squad in February in time for the Sydney and Hamilton sevesn tournaments. “He will be back in the new year and we wish him all the best at the Prisons’ service. He is still one of us,” said Ogweno. Lugonzo was part of the Kenya Sevens side that won the 2016 Singapore 7s as well competed at the 2016 Rio Olympics. The Kakamega High alumni first played for the Kenya Sevens in October 2014 at Gold Coast but suffered a knee injury on debut in Australia, returning towards the end of that season and has been a regular feature in the squad since then. The absence of Lugonzo leaves Innocent Simiyu with Brian Tanga and Sammy Oliech as the play makers in the squad for the opening two leg of the World series. Ogweno was satisfied with the performance at the Safland Sevens in Namibia last weekend but there is room for improvement. “There are couple of areas the team has to work on before leaving for Dubai at the end of the month.  The 18-man squad for the World Series, Commonwealth Games and Rugby World Cup will be announced tomorrow with the 12-man squad for Dubai and Cape Town set to be unveiled next week. Kenya face Canada, South Africa and Uganda in Pool ‘A’. Meanwhile, the 2016 Kenya Cup champions Kabras have bolstered their squad by signing 11 players ahead of Kenya Cup in two weeks time. The sugar millers, who played the last three Kenya Cup finals and were crowned national Sevens Series champions last month, have now set their sights on reclaiming the crown after coming short against KCB in this year’s final. Nakuru RFC quartet of Coleman Were, Victor Shigholi, Kevin Omiyo and Charlton Mokua join the sugar millers alongside Bram Mayaka and Andrew Chogo from Homeboyz.  Highly-rated utility back Kevin Keegan joins from Quins alongside Kelly Akengo and Alfred Odawa. The Kakamega-based outfit have also signed Ugandan Asmam Mugerwa. Those that have decamped include, Vincent Mwikhali to Menengai Oilers, Levy Ochieng and Fidel Oloo (Nondies).  The formidable Fijian contingent, which was with the team have all gone back to Fiji and they include fullback Jone Kubu, Jone Navuso, hooker Sava Racigi and flankers Apenisa Nabuu and Pete Nakarawa. Kabras team manager Anthony Ogot said competition for places in the squad was intense and believes they have depth across all positions on the pitch.