Angela Anyango is seated on her hospital bed in Homa Bay county next to her five-year-old daughter, Larisha Kacie, who is partially blind as a result of cataract. Angela greets us with a smile on her face, obviously excited to see us. However, the little girl nervously smiles at us and is reluctant to greet us.  Angela tells us that she arrived at the hospital at 6 in the morning with hope of getting treatment for her baby. She first noticed the child’s grey pupil when she was just a month old. “Why did you have to wait for five years to bring her to hospital?” we ask. “I took her to a local health centre and they referred me to Sabatia but I did not go. I did not have the finances at the time. Years later, I realised it was getting worse and her vision deteriorating, and after hearing an advertisement about an eye camp-sponsored by the Fred Hollows Foundation a few days ago on the radio, I decided to come today,” Angela tells us. In some cases, children are born with cataracts while in others, it develops as a result of trauma to the eye. Cataract is the largest cause of avoidable blindness in the country, making up 43 per cent of all cases of blindness. The Fred Hollows Foundation works with the Government of Kenya to improve health services. The organisation’s focus is in the rural areas, where about 80 per cent of the population lives, and where access to health services is extremely limited due to finite resources and financial allocation for eye health. Aside from being her mother, Angela is also Larisha’s teacher, and she says that is an advantage because she is able to give the girl extra coaching when they go back home after school. The doctor tells Angela the situation can be corrected, although waiting this long could have resulted in the child going completely blind.  Even though cataracts is not difficult to treat, it is very important that it is caught in time in children. Otherwise, it can cause the eye to stop developing, meaning that sight is not properly restored even after surgery.  “I assumed the condition was hereditary since my mother-in-law also has cataract. I actually came with her today, she is in the next ward.” Angela tells us she is the one who takes care of her mother-in-law, Helen Ogutu, 79. We request her to introduce us to her mother-in-law. Helen is a jovial and hilarious woman. Until you look at her eyes, you would not think there was anything wrong with her. “My granddaughter used to tell me that I have something in my eyes that looks like a white sweet and that other children had told her she has the same ‘sweet’ in her eyes,” Helen says. We ask her what she will do when she gets her sight back. “I will go to the government office to pick my pension money,” she says.  She tells us that last time, her daughter-in-law had to take her and they declined her request because she was not yet 80. “Next time I will go there by myself.” She said she also wants to also sweep her house and organise it well. The next day after surgery, we meet Hellen and her granddaughter. Hellen cannot hide her excitement because now she can see clearly. “You have very nice teeth,” she tells one of us as she laughs. “And my daughter here is a very pretty girl.” We ask her what she has to say to the people who helped her regain her sight. “I cannot thank the foundation enough. They have changed my life. I will now be able to do things I was not able to do before, and I owe it all to the foundation. You people have been a blessing to my family. Even my granddaughter is now able to see. “People back home discouraged me, saying I would not get my sight back, and I cannot wait to go back and prove them wrong. I am a clan elder and now I will be the one taking notes during meetings because I can see,” Hellen says. Angela is also ecstatic and thanks the foundation, saying that now her daughter can learn all the way to university and become a pilot, and she can also focus on finishing her teaching course now that she does not have to stay home taking care of her mother-in-law and daughter. “People discouraged us from coming to hospital, saying that the announcement on the radio about the eye camp was a hoax. Other children even told Larisha that when she came to hospital, the doctors would remove her eye and replace it with one from a sheep. That is why she was afraid of you when we first met.”