PANIC has gripped the centres of power after NASA chief Raila Odinga kept his promise to tell his supporters to boycott certain products and services that are associated with Jubilee. A good number of people who cling to power through proxies so that their businesses benefit from the government are also a worried lot. They claim Raila's economic boycott threat might define who has the numbers in this country. CABINET Secretaries and top government officials were flying high during the conduct of the KCPE exam. They were in the skies for hours as they ostensibly inspected the test across the country. However, many Kenyans took to social media condemning the state officials for taking advantage of the candidates to tour the country. Some asked why the ministers flew into dilapidated schools instead of pumping the money into the construction of classrooms. When did Education become a crosscutting portfolio that can attract inspectors from the Agriculture and Mining ministries? Well, it was indeed a golden opportunity for the top state officers to have fun around the country. JUST what is happening at the National Police Service? Officers who dedicated almost a year of their lives combing through the al Shabaab-infiltrated Boni Forest are a worried lot. This is even after their plight was highlighted by media. What is even more worrying is the studious silence from those concerned. The officers, a little bird tells Corridors, have not been paid their allowances. Frustrated, the officers now have nobody to turn to, as IG Joseph Boinnet is busy doing other things. The big question however is: Has someone pocketed the money meant for these officers? SOME City Hall workers were last week heard asking themselves where the groups of idling men who used to camp outside City Hall disappeared to. The groups vanished immediately Mike Sonko took over from Evans Kidero as the city governor. The workers said the men were brokers who used to take money from citizens to ‘facilitate’ and help them to access the county offices. STILL on City Hall, is the current hawkers menace artificial to bring down retail stores (supermarkets) operating within the Central Business District?  Hawkers have now concentrated on areas around supermarkets. They don't pay rent and sell their stuff at very low prices. They also block customers from accessing the supermarkets within the CBD. Corridors wonders if officials at the county government and State House might be colluding to favour the individual interests of a potential investor in the supermarket and retail stores sector within the CBD.