Nyatike subcounty fishermen on Lake Victoria and the disputed Migingo Island have urged the government to save them from harassment by Ugandan police. Speaking to the press on Saturday, the fishermen said when arrested they have been forced to eat raw fish by the Ugandan police and military patrolling the waters around the island. Kennedy Mkwaya said Ugandans force them to pay Sh5,000 tax daily when found in the lake, even in the Kenyan water territory. “They operate at dusk and dawn when they are sure boats have enough catch. Once they surround your boat they demand the tax at gunpoint,” Mkwaya said. Kenyan fishermen said Ugandan police take away their stock, gear and intimidate them with arrest. “What is happening at Migingo makes us question if we are really Kenyans. We need the government to assure us of our citizenship and protection against police brutality,” Mkwaya said. Kachieng MCA Brian Osodo and his Muhuru Bay counterpart Evron Maira said they have complained of the harassment severally to the Kenyan government without any help. “The laxity with which the government is handling the issue of harassment of Kenyan fishermen is creating tension in Nyatike and residents feel discriminated,” Osodo said. Maira said with the shortage of fish, fishermen have been forced to venture deeper into the lake, an issue the Ugandan security officers use to intimidate them. “I have two fishermen from my ward who had to be hospitalised after they were forced to eat raw fish. We need the Migingo Island row finalised,” Maira said. The two said tension has been building as Ugandan fishermen invaded local beaches and Migingo Island last month, which has seen locals calling for their forcible expulsion. The influx followed the change of ownership of the beach management units to be headed by the Uganda People’s Democratic Forces. On Monday evening, 20 fishermen from Uganda docked at the island, raising tension. On the mainland at Kibro beach in Nyatike, Kenyan fishermen raised the alarm as the 20 boats with more than 40 fishermen started docking in the past four days. Osodo said despite local police giving the foreigners orders to leave, others still remain.