As an avid observer of human nature, I am time and again amazed at man’s ability to complicate each and every thing that crosses his path, and not until it is a muddle, when it is physically impossible to complicate things any further, does he leave it well enough alone. For some reason, we equate complicated with intelligence.  Take my first employer, for example. When I started working, at a company whose name I’ll refrain from mentioning, the management structure was simple. At the top, you had the managing director. Under him were department managers numbering five in total. Down one rung from the managers came the supervisors, one for each department. And then at the very bottom was us, the people who actually did the work and were, therefore, aptly referred to as the workers. That was it, a four-level-pyramid company structure. What happened next was similar to cellular multiplication. That’s when single cells divide and multiply. The MD became the chief executive officer. So now there was an opening, which led to the hiring of someone else from outside to take up the CEO’s old job. At the departmental level, the managers felt they needed assistance, and so by way of promotions, the supervisors became assistant managers to the managers. Down the ladder, meanwhile, the remaining supervisors proliferated. There were supervisors in charge of supervisors, supervisors supervising the work, supervisors in charge of arranging workstations in accordance with the principles of Feng Shui, and supervisors in name only, like the motivation supervisor who wasn’t really in charge of anyone but whose job it was to arrange team building outings — the kind that snatch weekends away from staff to have them participate in gunny sack races and forced marches through the bushes. None of these supervisors were new employees but rather employees lifted up from among the workers. More importantly, the gaps left by the promoted workers weren’t filled. What was ridiculous about all of this was that the company hadn’t expanded, nor had there been an increase in business to warrant this management explosion. It was just decided that instead of a simple management structure, it would be nicer to have a complicated one. What it ended up being was a muddle because just about everyone was a boss, and in charge, and so no one really was. Complicated isn’t good. Simple on the other hand… Simplicity is a sign of truth and criterion for beauty. Complexity can be a way of hiding the truth — Helena Rubinstein. If you haven’t already guessed by now, all this talk of complicated things was inspired by Kenya’s election, 2017. We’re talking Kenya Integrated Elections Management System (KIEMS in everyday Kenyan language), synchronised result transmissions, overseas servers, scanners, 3G, 4G… I mean, are we still talking about elections here, or have we muddled our way into IT issues?  You see, I thought that the main thing with elections was, how many are rooting for this guy? And how many are rooting for the other guy? And where there are problems, why not simple solutions that do not take us away from the main thing? But then again, I don’t think many have come across the phrase: The main thing is to keep the main thing the main thing — Stephen Covey. Because when you do keep to the main thing, it shouldn’t be complicated.  