Cancer is the third leading cause of death in Kenya. Unfortunately, a high percentage of those who suffer from this condition cannot afford its very expensive treatment. A good number of families have gone bankrupt from managing the disease, while others are servicing loans taken to treat cancer. Even those who once thought they could manage cancer end up stretching their arms out for help as their finances dwindle. Those who can afford it fly overseas to seek specialised treatment worth millions of shillings, only to succumb to the disease. Some have been declared cancer-free, but the celebration is often short-lived as the disease recurs in more potent versions. Most patients in Kenya tend to lose hope when they test positive for cancer because of the financial implications of treating the disease and the poor history of recovery rates. This is caused by not only the low number of cancer specialists, but also the few treatment options available. There is equally very scarce information about the disease, leading to many myths about cancer. It is, therefore, important for people to be educated on cancer, not only during the month of October, but all year round to have the right information which will help them make informed decisions. For instance, a lot of people only wait to go for the screening in October during the cancer awareness month after which they forget about the disease. But research has shown that cancer is treatable if detected early, so it is important to go for frequent screening. It is such a relief that many cancer awareness foundations have come up in support of those affected and are on the front line creating awareness. Hopefully, the government will support these efforts, which will be a major boost in fighting the disease. Unfortunately, cancer does not choose race, age, colour or even origin. Actually, it does not follow any particular trend. This makes everyone a potential victim of the deadly disease as scientists work round the clock to find the cause. Many factors have been pointed out as causes. Some have been rubbished as myths while others are being subjected to more research. However, according to the Kenya National Cancer Organisation, alcohol and tobacco are the main causes of multiple cancers. A very small percentage of cancer infections is, in fact, tied to family history. A number of organisations, including Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies, have intensified the fight against cancer, giving hope to many patients and their families. Meds is a faith-based medical supply chain and capacity-building organisation that provides medicines and medical supplies in Kenya and the region. It is working with the county and national governments to ensure availability of quality and affordable health commodities, including cancer management. Kenya’s health sector faces immense challenges and no single entity, not even the government, can single-handedly meet all its needs. That’s why organisations need to work in partnership to increase access to quality and affordable healthcare for millions of patients across Africa. Meds collaboration model with various partners is bearing fruit. The partners include faith-based health facilities, the county governments and multinational organisations such as AstraZeneca (Healthy Heart Africa), Johnson & Johnson (maternal and child mortality), Novo Nordisk (BoP project for diabetes care) and Norvatis-Sandoz in managing non-communicable diseases, such as breast cancer, hypertension, diabetes and asthma. More partnerships can achieve tremendous results in the war on many diseases. Counties that have benefited from this worthy cause include Nyeri, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kirinyaga and Meru. Indeed, if more organisations and governments adopted this collaborative approach, Kenya, and Africa at large, can make huge strides in fighting cancer.   Dr Jane Masiga is the Managing Director of Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies.        