The Jubilee administration is planning a diplomatic charm offensive targeting influential Western powers to counter NASA leader Raila Odinga’s efforts.   Stung by what they believe is a diplomatic move by Raila to portray Uhuru’s election as void, the government plans to launch a vigorous diplomacy shuttle. This, however, will depend on the outcome of the Supreme Court ruling. The Star has established Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary - Kenya’s lead diplomat - plans to oversee a multiplex of international programmes aimed at rallying the support of world powers if the court rules in Uhuru’s favour. high-profile team Other top diplomats, among them Kenya’s envoy to the UN Macharia Kamau and the Washington-based Ambassador Njeru Githae, will also be in the high-profile charm offensive team. Jubilee hopes the Supreme Court will throw out two petitions challenging Uhuru’s October 26 victory and pave the way for his swearing-in for a second term. Targeted world influential nations include the US, UK, Germany, Russia, China and Russia.  The aim of the diplomacy would be to have the powerful nations recognise Uhuru’s presidency.  National Assembly leader of Majority Aden Duale signaled an aggressive diplomatic voyage by Jubilee to counter Raila’s “lies” in foreign land. He said Jubilee will launch massive diplomatic manoeuvres in the next two weeks. “Tinga [Raila] has the culture of lying and washing dirty linen in public in foreign capitals,” Duale said. Duale said Jubilee is concerned Raila had taken to the world stage to “peddle falsehoods” about the October 26 repeat presidential poll. “We have our foreign mission in Washington DC and in New York. I will make a trip with other leaders to the Congress sub-committee on Africa so the lies he is peddling do not add up,” he said The Foreign Affairs Monitoring Unit is understood to be closely monitoring Raila’s international engagements including putting his foreign itineraries on their radar. Raila, who boycotted the disputed October 26 repeat polls, was last week in the US, where he met the congress subcommittee on Africa. He also delivered a lecture at the Centre for Strategic and International studies, detailing the reasons for his boycott of the poll and outlining his next steps.        