More than 3,000 Lamu IDPs displaced by terror attacks have refused to return home, despite assurances their villages are safe from al Shabaab. They demand compensation for time lost, property looted and destroyed by criminals, herders and wild animals while they were away. The government refuses to pay. IDPs say food rations and other aid are being reduced to force them out.  Early last week, Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said security has been restored in their villages. He urged them to return and pick up their lives. However, they have been saying they won’t budge until the government compensates them. IDPs from the 2008 post-election violence were compensated — why not them? they ask. Villagers fled Pandango, Jima, Poromoko and Maleli afterterror attacks. They have been living in IDP camps in Katsaka Kairu and Witu AIC church. The Katsaka camp is the largest, with more than 2,500 people. There are at least 500 IDPs at Witu AIC Church. Residents of Kakathe, Nyongoro, Taa and Boramoyo were also forced to live in camps. They were told to leave to pave the way for a security operation to flush out militants. The IDPs say they still feel insecure and  unhappy about being forced out empty-handed. Spokesman Simon Mgumba said wild animals have destroyed their crops and their homes have been looted. They have nothing to go back to. He said the government has started cutting down on aid and their lives are increasingly difficult. “We are asking them to give us something to start life all over again. It is not enough to tell say just go home. We don’t have food and we lost our household items. We don’t know where to start. We no longer get regular supplies. This is meant to push as out, but we won’t go,” Mgumba said. Ruth Saanyu, an IDP at Katsaka, said it’s selfish and heartless for the state to drive them out empty-handed, knowing very well they have nothing. The mother of four said it was unfair for the government to compensate the 2008 post-election violence IDPs, but refuse to give them anything. “We are literally beggars.Why is it so hard to treat us fairly? Are some IDPs more special than others?” 