Eight North Rift governors plan to revive formation of the North Rift Economic Bloc. The idea to form NOREB was mooted three years ago but it wasn’t pursued. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok on Tuesday said the region has many unique economic opportunities, which can be exploited through the formation of NOREB. The counties in the bloc are Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Turkana, Samburu, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet. “This is the time when leaders of this region need to see how we will drive our region to exploit our potential,” Nanok said. He is also the chairman of the Council of Governors and vice chairman of NOREB. He said they will meet to revive the process of forming the economic group. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago is the chairman of NOREB. Nanok spoke in Eldoret after attending a mass in memory of Bishop Cornelius Korir. The Turkana Governor also said the Council of Governors will not be rocked by splits on political grounds, because of differences between Jubilee and NASA. Nanok said all governors are focusing on serving Kenyans, regardless of their political affiliations. He said all leaders must focus on rebuilding the country and avoid divisive politics aimed at pushing personal interests. “We will not accept divisions in the CoG. That has been our tradition since we came into being as counties. As leaders, we all took the oath to serve Kenyans and we have to do so as per the Constitution,” Nanok said. He praised the recent move by governors from Nandi, Kisumu and Kericho to hold joint peace meetings to quell rising political tensions on their common borders. “I have confidence that in the days to come that you will see us working together to serve Kenyans,” Nanok said. He said all national leaders must take the initiative to unite Kenyans if they love their country. Nanok said during the October 26 repeat presidential election, he defied the boycott call by his party and refused to allow demonstrations in Turkana county. “I refused to call for demonstrations in Turkana, because things would have been bad. We have guns in the hands of civilians in the region and I did not want to see chaos,” he said. Nanok said residents participated in the poll. Turkana Central MP Lodepe Nakara, who was present, also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to initiate dialogue with  NASA leader Raila Odinga to unite Kenyans. He said Uhuru should take the initiative.