TALK of a legal fight of
titans. The recent Supreme Court ruling upholding President Uhuru Kenyatta's
fresh poll win has sparked a vicious legal fight and exchange between Elgeyo
Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen
and Professor of Law Makau Mutua, a
strong Jubilee Government critic. The two have been taking on each other on
social media regarding the legitimacy of Uhuru's second term regime. Makau says
Uhuru's administration is illegitimate, while Murkomen dismisses this and
insists that the Supreme Court ruling addressed the legitimacy issue. The two
have been embroiled in a legal fight, almost going personal in trying to
outsmart each other. Makau even said Murkomen requires a sit-in meeting with
him to be taught some key legal topics. Murkomen, accepting  the meet, told Makau that it will offer him
an opportune moment to teach the Professor some political lessons. ***** HAVE the governors come up
with a standard template applicable to their interaction with the national
government? Well, there was a remarkable, word-by-word resemblance between
President Uhuru Kenyatta and his
deputy William Ruto's congratulatory
message adverts from the Kiambu and Nairobi Governors published in the local
dailies. The adverts begged the question whether the messages emanated from one
source. Kenyans also protested on social media, after Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission Chairman Eliud
Wabukala and CEO Halakhe Waqo
placed an advert in one of the dailies congratulating Uhuru and Ruto. They
argued that the EACC’s role should be safeguarding integrity among public
service officers. ***** A board member in one of
the water boards in Nyanza has baffled his colleagues with his bravado
following the Supreme Court ruling. The man, a known Jubilee Party point man,
is bragging that his term at the board must be renewed by force. The man
pretends to be more powerful than his appointive authority, Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, whom he says will not
have a say after board members’ term ends next year. The man has no university
degree, a requirement for one to become a board member. It is also alleged that
the man forcibly influences contracts at the Water Board, which has tainted the
image of his fellow board members. ***** PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta's handlers seem to be divided over how to handle
National Super Alliance leader Raila
Odinga. Corridors have learned that some – mostly young and liberals –
prefer dialogue but the rest have ruled out any talk with the former Prime
Minister. Our moles at the Office of the President and State House, for that
matter, have revealed that most of the young team and liberals want talks
because of the post-Uhuru leadership. They believe only dialogue will easily
heal the country.