It is authority that provokes revolution. This occurs when a feeling of impunity takes root among the elite: We are allowed anything, we can do anything. This is a delusion, but it rests on a certain rational foundation. For a while it does indeed look as if they can do whatever they want. Scandal after scandal and illegality after illegality go unpunished. The people remain silent...They are afraid and do not yet feel their own strength. At the same time, they keep a detailed account of the wrongs, which at one particular moment are to be added up. The choice of that moment is the greatest riddle of history - Ryszard KapuÅ›ciÅ„ski, Shah of Shahs. You will recall that only last year, in a speech before the African Union in 2016, Mugabe said he would remain at the helm “until God says: Come.” What is clear is that an old man’s mind and political antennae were properly scrambled by an ambitious wife (Gucci Grace), a wife who was always untenable and whose political longevity was entirely correlated to the presence of her Husband. The fast moving events in Harare will culminate in the dismissal of President Robert Gabriel Mugabe and the re-instatement of the Vice President he fired, Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa aka The Crocodile, “A crocodile patiently waits for his target,, pretending to be a rock, At times you think he doesn’t react, or doesn’t have any solution to what is happening. He doesn’t show irritation until the optimal moment and then he strikes. And when he does, he doesn’t miss his target”. My Friend Herve Gogo rebutted Reuters, saying,  ‘’The analogy to Ceausescu is misplaced. This isn’t a revolution but just an aggiornamento inside ZANU-PF, and everyone is currently negotiating with Mugabe.’’  The pictures from Harare on Saturday spoke to a ‘’People Power’’ which is a genie which will be difficult if not impossible to put back in its bottle.  “It’s like Christmas,” said one marcher, Fred Mubay to Reuters.  He had a warning for whoever takes over Zimbabwe: “If the next leader does the same, we are going to come out again.” I agree with US assistant secretary of state for African affairs Yamamoto who said, “It’s a transition to a new era for Zimbabwe, that’s really what we’re hoping for.” The military which launched this decapitation are certainly set to shape the outcome but now have a Tiger by the Tail. Interestingly, the Military have been walking on linguistic egg-shells and side-stepping the word ‘’coup’’ with finesse.  Zimbabwe’s economy has fallen to the 20th biggest in sub-Saharan Africa from 10th when President Robert Mugabe came into power almost four decades ago Bloomberg). The economy has halved in size since 2000. As of October, the country owed lenders including the IMF, World Bank and African Development Bank about $9 billion, according to the finance ministry. Hyperinflation peaked at about 500 billion percent at the end of 2008, according to the International Monetary Fund, leading to the nation abandoning its own currency in favor of a basket of foreign exchange including the South African rand, the dollar, the euro and the pound, as well as so-called bond notes printed by the government. After two and half years of deflation, consumer prices started rising again in February, driven by a shortage of cash and higher food costs and its difficult to see how another bout of hyper inflation is avoided.  The dislocation in the Economy is evidenced in the price of BITCOIN which jumped as high as $13,499, almost double the rate at which it trades in international markets, according to prices cited on Golix’s website. Further evidence of economic disequilibrium is seen in the performance of the Stock Market. Before a correction at the end of the week. the Zimbabwe Industrial Index had jumped +390 per cent year to date and the MSCI Zimbabwe Index +420 per cent. The country’s shares are trading at a 475 per cent premium to cash, according to an Exotix analysis of Old Mutual data. That difference has to collapse for there to be any chance of Zimbabwe normalising. This difference started to collapse on Friday with the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange dropping $1,5 billion in value and the industrial index shedding 11.32 per cent. What is clear is that Zimbabwe is entering a New Normal and that in the medium term Zimbabwe has the potential to be one of the fastest growing economies in Africa. The People want to grab that opportunity with both hands. If Zanu-PF want to be part of that new more optimistic Future they need to invite the Opposition into Government, look for a big cash Boost from the international Community in order to stabilise the ‘’now’’. Zimbabweans have only known one Leader and that Leader is now gone. Aly-Khan is a financial analyst    