Residents of Kipini town on the Lamu-Tana River border have accused pastoralists of intimidation in a bid to make them abandon their property. The pastoralists graze their animals on their farms, allegedly invade their homes and rape women and children. Speaking at Jipendeni village on Thursday when they met county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo and security officers, the residents said the herders also beat men. The residents said the situation is getting out of hand. Kipini is fertile and with plenty of vegetation.  Locals’ spokesperson James Nyawiri and his wife were attacked at their home.  Nyawiri’s was cut with a panga and his wife was raped. The herders invaded their home at 8pm and told them the torture will continue until farmers leave. “Initially they would graze their livestock on our farms and we decided not to engage in altercations whenever they did that. Our silence seems to have angered them and nowadays they have turned into animals. They raid our homes and beat us up. But the most painful thing is that they rape our wives and young girls while we helplessly look. It’s disgusting. They beat me up and raped my wife. I will never recover from what they did,” he said. The farmers urged the government to intervene. They urged the national government to establish police and KDF camps.  “People are fleeing for fear of the worst. Those of us who have nowhere to go have to sleep in the bush whenever we suspect they could be planning to attack us. It’s a sick life,” Nyawiri said. The herders wreaking havoc cross over from neighbouring Tana River county, he said. Kitiyo said his team is addressing the matter. He warned both herders and farmers against taking the law into their own hands. A cohesion and integration committee has been formed.  It is tasked with documenting the reason behind the conflict It is expected to present a report in two weeks. “The inhumane acts must stop whether voluntarily of by force. Anyone crossing the line, however little, will face the full wrath of the law. I am sending the cohesion committee to meet with their Tana River counterparts so we understand why all this is happening and see what to do as soon as possible,” Kitiyo said. He continued, “Our goal is to end the bad blood between farmers and herders and for people to treat each other like humans again.”