One nominee for an executive position in Mombasa did not turn up for swearing in yesterday.   Fatma Awale, the Water, Sanitation and Natural Resources nominee, did not attend the event.   It was not immediately known why the executive, who had been vetted and approved by the assembly, missed the session. Speaker Harub Kharti’s speech, however, acknowledged her, despite her absence.  However, six of the nominees were yesterday sworn-in. In additon, three newly nominated executives Seth Odongo (Devolution and Public Service Adminstration), Hassan Mwamtoa (Agriculture, Fisheries, Livestock and Cooperative) and Fawz Rashid (Trade, Tourism and Investments) are yet to be vetted. Those sworn-in are Edward Nyale (Lands, Planning and Housing), Twafiq Balala (Transport, Infrastructure, and Public Works). The others are Kevin Munyoki (Youth Gender, Sports, and Cultural Affairs) and Godfrey Nyongesa (Environment, Waste Management, and Energy). Hazel Koitaba (Health) and Maryann Mbaruk (Finance and Economic Planning) were also sworn in. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho warned them against engaging in graft, which tainted his first term. “I want you to lead from the front in fighting this vice,” he said.  Auditor General Edward Ouko in a report last said governors presided over the likely loss of billions of shillings in unsupported expenditure, ghost projects, irregular payments and faulty procurement. The governor was put on the spot for operating four parallel revenue collection accounts: two accounts in KCB, one in National Bank of Kenya and another in the Cooperative Bank. Joho yesterday told executives they must provide leadership and drive social economic agenda of the county. The ODM deputy boss said principle and values of public servant should be key. “The challenges before us are both immediate and critical and we must role out our sleeves as quickly as possible,” he said. Joho exuded confidence in his cabinet that is would up the stage set by predecessors. “Their input in laying strong foundation and some policies for this government and key achievement must be build on,” he said. The governor said the executive must strive to make Mombasa a regional commercial hub. He said unlocking county potential through Vision 2035 requires concerted effort. Vision 2035 is a Sh33 billion blueprint aimed at transforming the region and position it as a business and investment hub.   The vision is also pegged on decent and affordable housing.