President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta faces an arduous task in his second term, trying to drive his development agenda and bind up the nation's wounds. He is to be sworn in on Tuesday next week but heightened ethnic tensions fuelled by political rhetoric still threaten national unity. NASA chief Raila Odinga is also to be sworn in next Tuesday as President of the People's Republic of Kenya, fuelling a secession push. The Supreme Court yesterday upheld Uhuru's victory in the October 26 rerun. He ran virtually unopposed, since Raila Odinga and supporters boycotted the polls. Read: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 Also read: What the Supreme Court justices said The victory for Uhuru clears the way for the 56-year-old leader to be sworn in on Tuesday next week at Kasarani Stadium.  A government team started planning yesterday for the ceremony. After hearing two days of arguments, a six-judge bench ruled that Uhuru was validly elected. It threw out two petitions demanding cancellation of the rerun as "without merit". The ruling is unlikely to end the political crisis. Raila has called for a six-month transition government to prepare a new credible eleciton. Dialogue seems unlikely at this stage.. Raila flew to Zanzibar on Sunday evening and is expected back this evening. Those planning his swearing in will brief him on Wednesday. Yesterday Raila, through adviser Salim Lone, immediately rejected the court decision,  saying it was reached under "duress". Ecstatic Jubilee supporters celebrated outside the court in Nairobi, Nakuru, Eldoret, Nyeri, Mombasa and elsewhere. Uhuru's victory sparked protests in Kisumu, Migori, where one person was shot dead, and elsewhere. Violence broke out in Kawangware slum in Nairobi. “This ruling didn’t come as a surprise. It was a decision taken under duress. We do not condemn the court, we sympathise with it,” Odinga said in his statement. Uhuru won the second poll with 98 per cent of the vote. The turnout was only 39 per cent. Raila called for a National Resistance Movement after Uhuru’s victory last month. Uhuru said he would not engage in dialogue with the opposition until “constitutional options” had been exhausted. Yesterday political leaders  said Uhuru’s biggest job would be to heal the nation. They said Uhuru should seek to form an all-inclusive government and reach out to his opponents in an effort to unite the country.  “Once he (Uhuru) is sworn in, the President will bear the onus of uniting the nation, bringing all communities together in an all-inclusive government that represents all the shades of our ethnic diversity and regions,” National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said. Uhuru's hands will be full, with demands to fulfill his campaign pledges and give jobs to loyalists. Different leaders have called on Uhuru to reach out to the rest of the country that supported the opposition, especially because those regions constitute almost half the country. “He must quickly go to this places and take actions demonstrating he is the President for all," political analyst Herman Manyora said. The opposition described his first term in office as being exclusionary. Almost three months of intense campaigns and an opposition boycott have revealed deep divisions and anger,  especially among NASA supporters an unemployed youth. While campaigning, Uhuru promised many things, including an internship programme for fresh graduates With the economy having suffered from campaigns and the government borrowing heavily, Uhuru will have to find innovative ways to raise cash and to fund projects. This being his last term, Uhuru will want to create his legacy, while managing succession politics. High on his agenda will be completion of key infrastructure projects like the standard gauge railway line from Naivasha to Kisumu and eventually to Malaba border, new roads, and electricity connectivity across the country.  Deputy President William Ruto is understood to have already laid out plans to take over from his boss and is expected to start implementing them immediately.  Uhuru’s Cabinet is therefore expected to reflect this balance, as Ruto would want to have his people in strategic positions.  Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen also weighed in on the President’s tough job ahead, saying Uhuru would have to reach out to all Kenyans, including his opponents, to unify the nation. “I believe President Uhuru Kenyatta will form a government that unites the country and will have a representation from all parts of the country,” the Elgeyo Marakwet senator said. “Those of us in Jubilee leadership will ensure we reach out to everybody, we give an opportunity to every voice. Every person who has contrary opinion must be given a chance.” Murkomen asked Raila’s opposition alliance to reign in supporters to build “bridges of peace” after the prolonged political standoff. “In the same way we agreed with the judgment of September 1 [nullifying Uhuru's August 8 victory] despite the misgivings, those of us who may be aggrieved with this judgment must live with the same consequence the same way we did,” he said. Jubilee deputy chief agent Winnie Guchu said the party will soon hold a retreat to map out a unification strategy. “We will sit together and see how we can put all Kenyans from all parts of the country together to see if we can consolidate more people,” she said. Former presidential candidate Japhet Kaluyu termed the Supreme Court ruling a win for all Kenyans and asked the President to leverage on it to move the country forward. “It is finally over and I believe it is a relief. Now the country can move forward and we can get to the business of restoring what had been lost,” Kaluyu said.  The repeat election last month had been ordered by the apex court after it nullified the results of the August 8 election, citing massive irregularities in the tallying of votes —an unprecedented move on the continent. Police said on Sunday at least four people were killed overnight in Kariobangi and Mathare slums  -the NASA strongholds in the capital. Raila visited the two slums and accused the government of being behind the killings. These followed at least five deaths on Friday as police tried to disperse opposition supporters. Raila and some NASA legislators said the death tolls 31 since he returned from an overseas trip. In 2008 the country was plunged into post-election violence after Odinga challenged Uhuru's victory at the Supreme Court and lost. More than 1,200 people were killed and more than 500,000 displace.d Read: Supreme Court ruling affirms IEBC commitment to credible polls - Chebukati Also: 'Halellujah!' Ruto happy after Maraga upholds Uhuru victory