Here in a few words is the essence of the
proposed Kenyan secession project: It is a brilliant negotiation tactic for the
present, but doomed to failure as practical policy for the long term. All the same, by all accounts the mere talk
of secession, brings a chill to the heart of most Jubilee Party supporters, and
thus presumably their leaders too. Why is this? I suspect that the key source of terror for
those who fear secession is the map widely circulated in the pro-secession
websites. Rather cleverly, it isolates the core Jubilee electoral strongholds
of the Rift Valley and Central Kenya, and adds to it the Northeastern region,
from the rest of Kenya. So, the message it sends is that if indeed
there is secession, then “Kenya” would be inhabited primarily by the greater
Kikuyu community of Central Kenya; the Kalenjin of the Rift Valley; and the
ethnic Kenyan Somali of the Northeastern region. The majority Kikuyu electorate of this
remnant state would also have to contend with the fact that theirs would be a
Muslim-majority state in about 25 years. The Somalis have by far the highest
birth rates in the country, while the Kikuyu have the lowest. So, come 2030 or
so, it would be President Aden Duale calling the shots (possibly under Sharia
law), the long-dominant Kikuyu reduced to a minority community.  In that context, the prospect of a
Raila Odinga presidency; a constitutionally-mandated rotational presidency; or
some other form of perpetual power-sharing within the existing borders suddenly
seems very appealing indeed – provided the current borders remain. What makes this project seem plausible are
two factors: First is that one of the key promoters of the
secession project is Dr David Ndii, easily Kenya’s most eminent economist, and
also Raila’s top strategist. This will lead many to assume that Dr Ndii must
have worked out the math of this secession project, and figured out how the
proposed “People’s Republic of Kenya” will prosper on its own. The second is that, despite the current
Jubilee majority in Parliament, if we look at ethnic voting blocs favouring
each side, as opposed to voter turnout, NASA presidential candidate Raila has
the greater number of Kenyans on his side. Even if the secessionists are successful in
their referendum, would the great powers of this world – the USA, the EU,
Japan, China, etc – recognize this new country, the “People’s Republic of
Kenya”? The
writer is a political analyst 