Efforts to recover three bodies of people who were involved in a plane crash a week and half ago from Lake Nakuru are still on. The three were among five. Two other bodies have been recovered and identified. Those aboard the helicopter were Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika’s bloggers Sam Gitau, John Mapozi and Antony Kipyegon. Others were pilot Apollo Malowa and a friend, Veronica Muthoni. Malowa and Kipyegon’s bodies were retrieved on Monday last week. The families of those still missing have been watching the recovery exercise from the shores. Distressed families gather at the shores of the lake everyday from dawn till sunset, hoping the bodies of their loved ones would be retrieved. Narrating the agony, they have experienced since the incident on October 21, they say their only hope is God. “We are very devastated due to uncertainties involved in the rescue operation. We have gone through tough times full of anguish. We've been hoping for a successful recovery process at the end of each day,” William Ngugi, the father of Sam Gitau, said. More than 50 divers have been combing the waters in search of the bodies. The delay and inability to find the others, and locate the chopper, have prompted fierce criticism. The families have urged the coordinators of rescue teams to spare time and brief them on the progress. “It is more torturing when we are not briefed. For the last four days, apart from being counselled, we have not been briefed on the progress. We normally come here in the morning, sit at the shores and only leave after the rescue team have left without a word,” Mary Wairimu, Muthoni's friend, said. A counselling tent has also been set at the recovery with experts from the Kenya Counselling and Psychological Association on standby. Food vendors have also camped at the site. Kenya Red Cross Society Central Rift manager Michael Ayabei said his team and their counterparts from the Kenya Counseling and Psychological Association had briefed families of the victims. But National Disaster Management Unit deputy director and communication officer Pius Masai said poor visibility due to dirty water, silt and mud in the lake, a wide search area and the presence of Wildlife animals are among the factors that have hampered the search. Sonar machines from Kenya Navy and magnetometers from the Mining ministry and the Geothermal Development Company have been unable to locate the fuselage (main wreckage) of the helicopter. The sophisticated machines takes wider angles to detect any metal object embedded in the salty water lake. Six geologists from the ministry have been working closely with the experienced divers in the search.                    