Ruth Chaka scored 446 marks in KCPE to emerge the best girl in Kwale county. The 14-year-old aspires to become an author and wants to join Alliance Girls High School. She sat her exam at Bethany Mission School in Matuga. "I knew I would perform well but not as excellent as this. I am so excited," Chaka said. "I love reading and writing. I want to become an author in future," she added. Her mother was so happy and danced to the news. "Its God who gave us this blessing. Dedication and prayers between teachers and pupils also contributed to this success," she said. Lucy Nyarumba of the same school followed the lead with 435 marks. Lucy broke into tears at the school as she was celebrated by teachers, she couldn't speak to the press. She was followed closely by her classmate Baraka Rimba who got 434 marks. Baraka wants to become a doctor and his dream school is Mangu high school. The school had a mean score of 416 and a total of 15 pupils with 13 scoring 400 marks and above. The school head teacher Winsue Karanja said the success can be attributed to their missionaries who supported them throughout the exam period. "This being our first KCPE we didn't expect this much of achievement but we thank God and teachers for this success. Mikaela academy in Ukunda was among the schools in Kwale that had well perform. Amina Mwamosi, 16 years old was joined by parents, teachers and fellow students in celebration of the victory yesterday evening after scoring 429 marks. Amina termed the results a success as she missed six marks to attain her target of 435 marks. "I want to join Alliance girls high school and later on be a scientist," she said. The head teacher, Abdallah Nyundo said that KCPE 2017 was well performed than last year's. "We did not get 400 marks in last years exam but now we have nine candidates who have scored that mark," he said. Nyundo said that the success is as a result of  hard work and commitment between teachers and pupils. The head teacher said so far they don't know the mean score as they haven't got results of all 23 candidates. Ahmed Hamisi of Magutu primary school has secured 421marks. This is the first public school to have the best performing child so far. Education director Brigit Wambua said reports from sub county education officers state that there are two pupils in Kinango with 416 and 401marks. However,reports of other school's results are not out as the system is said to be slow. " I am waiting for the sub county directors to give me a full report on the results but the system is very slow," he said. 