Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago wants IFMIS scrapped on grounds it has crippled counties' operations. Mandago said the Treasury's financial management system is a disgrace and a major bottleneck to the success of devolution. "It is a horrible system that has made it impossible for us to absorb money and spend. It's useless," he said on Friday. Mandago wants the Inter-Governmental Relations Technical Committee to question the National Treasury on the use of the system. "Sometimes its opened and then shut immediately in a manner that serves to frustrate counties," he told IGRTC officials. Mandago spoke when committee officials paid him a courtesy call in Eldoret. He said IFMIS has proven to be an impediment to procurement and payments in county governments. Mandago said counties cannot operate under a system designed to cause financial frustrations. The Governor accused officers operating IFMIS of being malicious in a bid to cripple devolution. He said this is the reason counties have failed to, in good time, absorb funds disbursed to them. "We are many times accused of failing to use all the money we are given but all that is because of this system." The county chief further said counties should not be forced to continue taking blame over matters beyond their control. Mandago said IFMIS also includes unreasonable directives on tendering and procurement. He argued that efficiency and affordability of small community projects will be achieved through funding of the project committees instead of directing tendering. Sources say the Council of Governors is considering to sue the Treasury so that it is compelled to scrap the system. Budget Controller Agnes Odhiambo earlier said problems with the Integrated Financial Management Information System are partly to blame for the slow pace of development in counties. She captured this in her report on Nairobi county governments' budget implementation review for July 2016 and March 2013. Read: Frequent Ifmis breakdowns slow county operations – CoB report Also read: IFMIS collapse plot to frustrate counties ahead of polls, says Munya  