Over the past few years, most organisations
have begun to incorporate cloud into their operations, gathering insights from
large amounts of data that help them achieve key business outcomes. In fact, cloud traffic is expected to
increase almost four times by 2020. Simultaneously, the Internet of
Things (IoT) market is expected to
reach $267 billion in the same period.  This combination results in unprecedented
volumes of data, which can easily become unmanageable. While cloud computing is
a major enabler particularly for industrial transformation, there is an increasing
need to turn the massive amounts of machine-based data into
actionable intelligence closer to the source. That’s
where edge computing comes in.  As more computing, storage and analytical
capacity is bundled into smaller devices that sit closer to the data, edge
computing involves
pushing computer applications, data and services away from the centralised
cloud to the logical extremes of a network (e.g. mobile devices, autonomous
vehicles or industrial machines). This means data is turned into insightful and
intelligent actions at the source of the data, which can reduce unplanned
downtime, improve asset performance, lower the cost of maintenance and increase
production efficiency. So,
where does that leave cloud computing? The shift to centralised cloud computing is
causing the wave of edge computing to roll in
faster. For the two to work most effectively, they need to work in
tandem. Cloud computing remains important when it
comes to actions requiring significant computing power, managing data volumes
from different parts of the organisation, asset monitoring and machine
learning. In other words, you would still use the cloud for processing that’s
not time-sensitive or is not needed for one device to take immediate action,
but rather helps the organisation to make business-wide decisions. On the other hand, edge computing comes
into play when there is a need for immediate actions, there are connectivity
constraints or there is a need for flexibility and customisation of processes
and products. That is, the goal is to process the data from the device that
needs it quickly, so that it can take the next most relevant action. There are
many cases where reaction time is the key value of IoT, and consistently
sending the data back to the centralised cloud prevents that value from being
realised. Let’s
look at this in real terms. In a fleet management scenario, data is
gathered from multiple operational points, such as the wheels, brakes, battery
and electrical system. Using edge computing, the fleet manager can monitor each
of these points on each of the vehicles in the fleet and proactively service
the vehicle, maximising uptime and reducing costs.  At the same time, data from all the vehicles
is sent to the cloud where it is aggregated and analysed to monitor the health
of these key components over time. The fleet manager can use these insights to
track the average cost of a given truck model over time, which helps the
organisation make informed decisions that impact the overall costs of its
fleet.  We can similarly see how cloud and edge
computing work together when it comes to autonomous cars.
Intel estimates that autonomous cars, with hundreds of on-vehicle sensors, will
generate 4TB
of data for an hour and a half of driving. Most of this data does
not need to be sent to the cloud – in fact, it would be unsafe, unnecessary and
impractical to do so. This is an ideal example of how edge
computing can assist in cases where real-time decision-making is key. In the
case of a child running out in front of the car while it’s driving, it would be
of little use to have it sending data to the cloud for analysis and
decision-making. Rather, the data needs to be analysed at the edge so that
immediate action (applying the brakes) can be taken. However, the cloud still has a role to play
here too. The data showing that the car had to respond to such an immediate
event may be valuable to the car manufacturer as it works on building future
models. There’s
no doubt that the proliferation of data is set to continue.  The Middle East and Africa is expected to
see an exponential
growth in data centre traffic, estimated to reach 451 exabytes (one
quintillion bytes) per year by 2020. This is one reason for Microsoft’s
recently announced data centres
in South Africa. Cloud computing supports the digital transformation
of businesses, while analytics spurs innovation. Edge computing adds another important layer
to this. It moves the insights currently sitting in the cloud down to the device
where all the action, ensuring faster action and better customer satisfaction
in the long run. Combining cloud and edge computing ensures
that businesses have both the big data and the more granular data they need to
succeed in the short and long term.   The write is Country GM - Microsoft East & Southern Africa         