Two MPs, from both Jubilee and NASA, have asked the government to stop illegal importation
and packaging of sugar to save local industries from collapsing. Onyango
Koyoo (Muhoroni) and Julius Melly (Tinderet) said state-owned sugar industries
are suffering because of an influx of illegal sugar into the local
market. They also want the government to introduce cane zoning and review operations of weighing bridges
and extension services. Speaking
separately to the Star on Monday, the legislators said the sugar industry should be protected because it supports the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans. They
accused private millers of cane poaching instead
of funding farmers to develop the canes.   Melly called for the freezing of licensing of more
sugar millers, saying the industry is already saturated. “What is
the point of poaching cane from farmers you did not fund to grow them. Private
millers must grow their own canes,” Melly said. He asked industry players to tackle challenges, saying farmers have suffered for a long time. Melly told the government to support factories for more sugar production to profit both millers and farmers. “The low
cane and sugar production in the country has left the deficit which give room
for importation of sugar,” Melly said. He said the sugar sector is a key contributor
to the country’s economy. “Locals sugar
factories have not been able to sell sugar because of illegal importation which flood the market,” Melly said. Koyoo
asked Agriculture CS Willy Bett to gazette industry regulations to streamline
operations in the sector. Sugar
imports have increased from 264,570 MT in 2015/16 to 426,149 MT in 2016/17,
following the opening up of importation of duty free sugar from non-EAC and
non-Comesa countries. Koyoo
urged the government to
tax all imported sugar to level the playing field for local millers. He asked sugar growing counties to collaborate with the national government to revive local industries. Koyoo
said the government was not taking seriously, the plight of sugar farmers because most factories are in opposition strongholds. He
said locally produced sugar should not be more expensive than imported sugar. Koyoo blamed sugar barons for the skewed equation. "Muhoroni,
Sony, Miwani, Nzoia and Chemelil factories are heavily indebted. They also operate with the most obsolete equipment. The government should tell sugar industry players why that is the case," Koyoo said. He urged the government to waive the debts for the companies. "We want major investments in transport
infrastructure in the sugar-growing areas with the possibility of introducing
light rails,” Koyoo said.                      