NASA's political and "resistance" tactics recall the typical characteristics of anti-democratic ideologues who exploit democratic processes to achieve the very opposite of what these are for. In this instance, Raila Odinga and company are using the constitutional rights to free speech, assembly, and protest to try and breach the Constitution in its very foundations.  Their reasons, which are clearest to Kenyans, is that they want state power despite the results of the two elections. What is less obvious is that Raila, with NASA tagging along, wants to permanently entrench political tribalism, and its resulting conflicts and violence, as the core of our national life, not elections decided by development and delivery performance regardless of who sits in State House. Some pained NASA supporters argue that notwithstanding the 2017 electoral result, democracy should be a pendulum swinging between more than the Gikuyu and Kalenjin who have produced all our presidents since independence. This is not an argument to brush aside, so let me try and demonstrate why Raila's way will be a terrible wrong turn for Kenya. The way I see it, Kenya has two overlapping, but quite different layers of ethnic identity and behaviour. The first is based on heritage, culture, traditions, and language.  This is the one that features intricate and tested process to manage group and individual inter-tribal relationships. Think of the marriage negotiations between members of different tribes.  On the day, there is a lot of respect, a lot of laughter, and a genuine attempt to understand one another. Same with the agreements struck on sharing of pasture and water in times of drought, that contain clear conflict resolution measures when there is a breakdown. Tribal identity is a well managed affair with many generations of practice in how to relate to other groups in love and war. Then there is the second tribalism, the political one. In this one, there are Gikuyu, Luo, Kamba, etc, political tribes that are constituted for the sole purpose of fighting for state power to access resources. Because of the pride and belonging we have in our cultural tribes - the first kind - we are easily emotionally moved into a defensive or aggressive stance when we are acting as a political tribe.  Politicians provide the trigger to that feeling by making us feel that their competition for power and privilege at the national level is a referendum on our culture, heritage and traditions. It is not but this is the game Raila has mastered. The political tribe was formed only a short time ago in response to the colonial state and High Commissioner Nic Hailey’s predecessors’ divide-and-rule strategies.  Today's political tribe is purpose-built to fight for power and resources from the modern Kenyan state. The most powerful tribe used to be British whites; they are now subject to Raila Odinga's "rationalisation" which of course would be implemented using state mechanisms were he ever to get the chance. Our constitution recognises the first tribe, the cultural one, while recognising the danger of the second one. Instead of making arrangements to accommodate the political tribe, it lays out how governance, for the individual citizen, should be made more equitable, participatory, and, most importantly, devolved.  As a document that is responding specifically to the 2008 PEV, and its violent ancestors, the constitution aims to kill off the political tribe through laying out how government should perform. Its view is that delivery to citizens, their participation, and devolved power are the key to a prosperous and cohesive Kenya. Raila Odinga unique signature is that he is completely at odds with this constitutional understanding. His campaigns are always about the political tribe. Recall that NASA did not offer a single policy paper - not one - from 2013 to 2017.  Absent a vision of how practical state performance can meet the constitutional aim to kill the political tribe, Raila plays with us using words in an astonishingly dishonest way. Marginalisation, inclusion, dialogue, 'fighting corruption' only mean let him into the state, so that it can be his turn to eat, otherwise he will throw political tribes at you.  Highly agitated ones whose members think their culture and heritage are being dissed. Raila does not just want to amend the constitution, he wants to entirely destroy its most urgent aim: to kill off political tribalism in Kenya. To my friends who speak of the political pendulum swinging, let it be about policies, performance, vision, if we are ever to be rid of the threat of mass violence that Raila wields like a hammer. Kihika is Majority Whip in the Senate