It was the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the Conduct of Attorney General Mr Charles Njonjo, chaired by Justice Cecil Miller, that first drew my interest in the legal profession. The coverage of the commission’s proceedings was verbatim. I noticed something peculiar in the English the lawyers and the presiding judges spoken as I read the three daily newspapers at the time (1983) – Daily Nation, the East African Standards and Kenya Times – in our school library. The English spoken by William Deverell and Senior Counsel Paul Muite was more refined than the one I always heard. The impression I had then was that language competence was the defining feature of legal practice, that command of English was the basis of a successful career in law. I was wrong. Law is much more than words or verbal arguments in the courts. It is about the things humans hold dear: The sanctity of life, freedom and property.   Whether interpreting and applying the law on the Bench and the Bar, or making policy, or exerting influence on policymakers, fluency in English (in our case) is a means and not an end to solving societal problems. What is crucial is that players understand the basic judicial and policy issues at the core of a legal or policy problem. Legal education—in theory and practice—concerns itself with the dilemmas of the human conditions, the consequences of individual and group decisions and actions, the tolerance of conflicting views and interests, and the balancing of the legitimate claims of freedom and authority in a society. All other disciplines and opinion-makers also interact with policy, legal and cultural artifacts that provide guideposts, guidelines, rules and regulations that address issues that cause disharmony. General education, with a strong curriculum, is important. A firm grounding in general education, great education philosophers hold, provides breadth and depth on issues that involve human beings, society and the natural environment. It encourages students to develop a critical and inquiring attitude, an appreciation of the interdisciplinary nature of subject areas, acceptance of people from different backgrounds or values, and a deepened awareness of self. What is more, it elevates and broadens the aspirations and outlook of the potential law student, policymaker or policy adviser. It also quickens conscience and heightens in the mind a sense of responsibility to clients and the society in general. Man's cultural and intellectual heritage – in all civilizations – has the capacity to enrich the heart, mind and spirit of students. An exposure to political science, economics, philosophy, anthropology, and physical and natural sciences is important for all those who will end up in leadership positions.  General education provides an opportunity to all policymakers and or
opinion-makers to move seamlessly into unfamiliar territory. Policy and opinion leaders come from different professional and
academic backgrounds. However, societal policy problems need the
intellect, energy, will and contribution of everybody. A common cultural and intellectual heritage made possible through
general education makes it possible for each person to bring his/her
technical knowledge to address problems threatening the society. Learned Hand, a US jurist, advocated the need for interdisciplinary exposure for all students. He notes in The Sources of Tolerance: “… it is as important to a judge called upon to pass on a question of constitutional law, to have at least a bowing acquaintance with Acton and Maitland, with Thucydides, Gibbon and Carlyle, with Homer, Dante, Shakespeare and Milton, with Machiavelli, Montaigne and Rabelais, with Plato, Bacon, Hume and Kant, as with the books which have been specifically written on the subject. "For in such matters everything turns upon the spirit in which he approaches the questions before him. The words he must construe are empty vessels into which he can pour nearly anything he will… "They must be aware that there are before them more than verbal problems; more than final solutions cast in generalizations of universal applicability. They must be aware of the changing social tensions in every society which makes it an organism; which demand new schemata of adaptation; which will disrupt it, if rigidly confined.” In law, as in other professions, words are tools of communication; they are windows into the human conditions, and the enigmas of human life. It is the focus on the human conditions, on the contradictions of living together, on balancing of freedom and authority, that society is enabled to get the best from the conflicting values that make life worth living.