Kenya Simbas face Chile in the opening match of the Four Nations tournament in Hong Kong today. Simbas are ranked 27th with Chile 28 in what promises to be a competitive match as both sides seek to prepare adequately for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers next year. The Simbas arrived in Asia on Tuesday evening and recovered on Wednesday before a full training session yesterday in the sweltering heat and humidity of Hong Kong. Jerome Paarwater’s charges have blown hot and cold this year with wins over Uganda, Zimbabwe, Tunisia, Senegal, and losses to Namibia, Germany and Hong Kong. Paarwater has described the year as the busiest and most challenging.  “It’s been a very challenging year. We have played a lot of matches unlike previous years. This three matches we are playing here gives us an opportunity to test ourselves against quality opposition as we seek improve our rankings and put ourselves in the right frame of mind for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers next year,” he added. Paarwater and the technical bench will go for the already tried and tested players for today’s showdown against the South Americans who are a physical side. The South African tactician is likely adapt an expansive game plan strategy of playing with width and at pace to tire their opponents. Moses Amusala, Peter Kaaria and Curtis Lilako will start in the front row with skipper Wilson Kopondo at lock alongside Oliver Mangeni. George Nyambua may be favoured for blindside flanker role after impressive displays of the bench alongside Eric Kere with Joshua Chisanga at number 8 Samson Onsomu and the recalled Nato Simiyu start as the half-backs with David Ambunya and Leo Owade in midfield with a back three of Jacob Ojee,Tony Onyango and Darwin Mukidza. Key players for Chile include Cristian Onetto, Sergio Valdez, Pablo Huete and Alistair Martin.  In the other fixture of the day, Russia face hosts Hong Kong. Kenya’s second match will be on Tuesday against 20th ranked Russia before wrapping up their fixtures against hosts Hong Kong on November 18th.