Church leaders and political leaders yesterday eulogised Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir as a warrior for peace. Korir, 67, was found dead on Monday at his house in Eldoret. He suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure. He headed the Eldoret Diocese. Energy CS Charles Keter said Korir was a great man of God. “He never shied away from saying the truth that was good for the country,” he said during a special mass in Eldoret. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said Korir helped his administration stabilise at the outset of devolution in 2013. “As counties in this region, we are great beneficiaries of the peace work carried out by Bishop Korir,” he said. Korir initiated construction of many schools and colleges, Mandago said. Former Minister Jebii Kilimo said the cleric was instrumental in promoting co-existence between communities in the Kerio Valley. “He restored peace between two clans in Elgeyo Marakwet within three days because of his powerful prayers,” she said. Farouk Kibet, DP William Ruto’s personal assistant, described Korir as a humble man, who easily mingled with people of all classes. Also present were Ambassador Julius Bitok (Pakistan), Soy MP Caleb Kostany, Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno, Belgut MP Nelson Koech, Uasin Gishu woman representative Gladys Shollei and former Minister Henry Kosgey. Kosgey said during his case at the ICC, Korir advised him to rely on God. Korir housed many victims of the 2007-08 post-election violence at his church in Eldoret. Because he was naturally humble, he never sought recognition for his great work, Kosgey said. “He helped the needy without caring about his own welfare,” he said. Archbishop Anthony Muheria of Nyeri presided over the mass and said Korir was humble and soft-spoken, but so courageous that he was ready to die for peace. “He was a man full of energy and power, but always passed for an ordinary man,” he said. Korir faced many problems in his work, but never gave up his strong faith in God, Muheria said.   At one point during the 2007-08 PEV, he stood between fighting groups and said he was ready to die to save others.  Muheria said Korir pursued justice and peace, always believing in finding solutions to problems. Bullets were fired at his car in Pokot and Marakwet, but he still went ahead to seek peace in the area. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto will attend his burial scheduled for November 11 at the Sacred Heart Cathedral, Eldoret. Korir was also known for speaking out against the injustices of the Kanu era.