  The motive tends to be to defuse the
tensions created by elections, by reducing the focus on one office, that of the
President. Some would say the Constitution gives too much power to the
President, perhaps remembering how people used to criticise the old Constitution
because it had created an “Imperial Presidency”.  We have much sympathy with these
views, but it is worth thinking about how our Constitution is operating, and
whether the problem is really with its design. After all, the basic design of
our system of government is based on that of the US, which has had had
fundamentally the same system since 1787. It can’t be all wrong!    THE US CONSTITUTION “Checks and balances” are the key
feature of the American constitution that is supposed to keep the powers of the
president in check. He (there has never been a she of course) cannot overstep
the mark too far because he needs Congress (the legislature) to approve his expenditure
and laws, and Congress can remove a president who is guilty of serious
misbehaviour by the process called impeachment.  Congress can be held in check to
some extent because the president must sign the laws it passes – and can refuse
to do so.  The president, his administration,
and Congress, can be held in check if they violate the constitution, because
their acts can be challenged in the courts.  And the courts are protected from
capricious dismissal, but should be deterred from excesses by the threat or
removal by the Senate.  Laws must be approved by both houses
of Congress, and the Senate often does not have the same party make-up as the
House of Representatives. The latter quite often does not have a majority of
the same party as the president. The system is designed like that: Halfway
through the president’s term of office there are Congressional election that
may change the party make-up of Congress. 
 The federal system with 50 state
governments — many not supporting the president’s party — with powers over many
areas of government, and resources, means that the President is not all-powerful.   KENYA President Uhuru Kenyatta (President Jomo
Kenyatta probably had no such complaints once he had changed the Constitution
to make himself the Lord High Everything) has sometimes complained he does not
have enough power. Others say he has – or wields – too much.  Yet we have a plethora of checks and
balances in our Constitution — even more than the US. We have three branches —
the Executive, the Legislature, with two Houses, and our Judiciary, which is
more independent than in the US, where the Supreme Court is divided between two
political camps. And our Constitution defines the President’s responsibilities in
considerable detail. We even have an extra arm of government
— independent commissions. Their appointment process was designed to be a
balance: Generally, their members are identified by a competitive process,
selected by an independent body, but approved by Parliament. So no-one should
feel commissioners “belong” to them, and they should have the qualities, and the
confidence, to act in the national interest. 
 And we have a devolved system,
bringing government closer to the people, though not in as many ways as in the
US.   REALITY Every system will have its challenges,
even in the US. But ours does seem to have more. For example, US Presidents make
Executive Orders, which sometimes seem excessively broad. But if they try to
step beyond their powers under the Constitution or the law made by Congress,
the courts will stop them as we saw with President Donald Trump’s first “Muslim
ban” orders.  American Presidents are not supposed
to declare war without the approval of Congress, but it is surprising what they
can do despite not being at war — like what we call the Korean and Vietnam
wars, or joining NATO strikes against Muammar Gaddafi’s Libya. Coming home, one problem seems to be
that Parliament does not stand up to the President enough. This is a problem
with parliamentary systems, too, because by definition, the head of government
(usually the Prime Minister) has the support of a majority of members of
Parliament. But it often seems that our parliamentarians do not put enough
effort into thinking through their roles and responsibilities in law making,
budgeting and supervision of government. Unfortunately, our Constitution
makes it too easy for the President to force Parliament into enacting what he
wants. If he does not like some aspect of a piece of legislation Parliament is
debating, he just waits until it is passed, and sends it back with a memo
saying what he really wanted. Parliament has never managed to muster the
two-thirds majority needed to override the President’s view. In the US, if the
President sends a Bill back, it dies. So, if he really wants something, he has
to make the effort to persuade Congress. Because Kenyan Presidents have
sometimes just sat on Bills, our Constitution says that if the President does
nothing with a Bill for 14 days, it becomes law. This played into President Uhuru’s
hands recently: He said he did not want to appear to be shifting the goalposts
over the presidential repeat election, and so, he did not sign the Bill
amending the election laws. Without having to sign it, the Bill became law. How
convenient! The President does not always
respect the limits on his powers. For example, he sometimes issues instructions
— not in writing and gazetted like US Executive Orders — including to officers
and bodies over which he has no command, like the police. Sometimes he drags
his feet when he is supposed to take a purely formal action such as appointing
judges.  Each county (like the American states)
has just one vote in the Senate. But ours is given far less power than the US
Senate, so is much less of a balancing body.   SO WHERE DO THE PROBLEMS LIE? Clearly, our Constitution has some
drafting problems. Some are because of the precipitate way a parliamentary design
was changed to a US-style presidential system, at the instance of some who now
want a change. Some excessive presidential powers are relics of a scheme to
give a largely ceremonial president some moderating powers in the public interest.
 But every system has problems. The
US constitution is not perfectly clear. Indeed, their constitution is not just
a single document, but 230 years of court decisions as well, sorting out what
the constitution means.  Good provisions have unexpected
consequences (such as ours about what happens if the President does not sign a
Bill into law).  More important is the use to which
the provisions are put. There is too much of a tendency to put self first. MPs
think that their power to approve independent commissions is for their benefit
(see how they want the new Salaries and Remuneration Commission to be more
friendly to them – give them more money). Senators view governors as rivals
when they are supposed to be supporting devolution. Many commission members seem
to think they represent the president (or perhaps the opposition). In other
words, too many in public life have not accepted the radical changes the
constitution was intended to bring. Be assured that whatever changes we
make to the constitution — however much some are desirable — we shall find new
problems arise, and many of them will be because of selfishness on the part of
those operating the constitution. It is not because Americans are
better than Kenyans. It’s because if they act in a self-centred way, there are
consequences. They will not be elected; or they will be impeached, or if they
commit a crime they will be prosecuted. When these things happen here, then
things will change. We cannot rely only on a few brave judges to fight the
battle for the realisation of the promise of the constitution. 