The government has moved to enable poor households afford clean cooking fuel with a cheap cooking gas project. Dubbed Mwananchi Gas, it is under implementation by the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum through National Oil Corporation. Rolled out in October, Gas Yetu package comes with a six kilogramme gas cylinder filled up with cooking gas, along with a burner and grill retailing at Sh2,000. To qualify for the package, one should register in a booklet provided by National Oil at the local chief’s office. The individual is then given the filled out registration form, and present it together with their national identification card to the dealer when purchasing the package. To refill a used cylinder, one will part with Sh900 at the appointed dealer’s outlet. The project is expected to improve the penetration of LPG from the present 10 per cent according to the government to 70 per cent in the next three years. The project is on pilot phase in Machakos and Kajiado counties, after which it shall be rolled out to the rest of the country. According to Leading Economic Indicators of September from Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, the average price for kerosene retailed at Sh65.33 in September, while charcoal prices averaged Sh81. 86. At the same time, the price of a 13 kilogramme cylinder of gas averaged Sh2,094.22, while the small size six kilogram cylinder was retailing at between Sh800 and Sh1000 during the period. National Oil is also developing a distribution model that will enable Kenyans in all counties access LPG at their nearest shopping centres through licensed distributors and retailers. Other proposed objectives of this programme are to reduce respiratory diseases and mortality rates associated with air pollution as a result of sustained use of firewood and charcoal, uplift quality of life for Kenyan citizens by making clean cooking fuel (LPG) readily available. It will reduce deforestation as beneficiaries move away from use of biomass, charcoal and firewood. Government hopes that through the programme, women, youth and people living with disabilities will take up business opportunities through joining the supply chain as distributors.  