Daniel Moi, the Second President of Kenya, started his education journey under an indigenous tree in 1935. However ugly and humble the tree was, it nurtured a President who went on to rule for 24 years after taking over from Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. The over century-year-old tree is one among many indigenous trees covering the bushy, natural and silent forest cover at the sleepy Kiptagich village, the rural home of President Moi in Sacho division, Baringo Central subounty. Today, under the cold shade of the tree, stands the renowned Tandui Boarding and Day Primary School. Outgoing chairman Peter Chepkong'a says no one has ever attempted to cut the historical tree since he joined the school management board in 2000. "This tree sheltered Mzee Moi during his time in nursery school and due to respect for his stern order, no one has ever dared to touch or cut the tree. Moi instructed that it should be left standing and protected until it perishes naturally," Chepkonga said. "Moi began his schooling here before proceeding to the African missionary school in Kabartonjo, Baringo North subcounty later in 1940s," school head teacher William Bowen says. Bowen showed a metal rod tied at one side of the tree's branches, which was used as the school bell. He says the school is situated just a stone throw away from the former President's rural home. It is also a few kilometres to the renowned Sacho High School, the giant national private secondary school which has over the years performed well in KCSE exams. He further said to date, the public primary school serves as polling station for the entire linage of Moi's family, including the Mzee's last born son and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. Since then, Tandui Primary School has undergone a lot of transformation courtesy of the former head of state and the government. And due to its academic excellence, it attracts pupils from across the entire Rift Valley region and the country at large. Some of the famous alumni include former director for Medical Services Dr Peter Cherutich, former Chemeli Sugar managing director Aaron Tuikong, former Judicial Service Commission advocate Kipngetich Bett, Principal Debt Recovery official at Kenya Industrial and Commerce Development Cooperation Zephaniah Rono, former Kenya's Ambassador to Namibia Rose Boit and former district education officer Charles Komen. WATER CRISIS Mr Bowen says since time immemorial, the school has struggled with water shortage as its major challenge. "Limited resources in the school such as water shortage has kept pulling us back, and restrained us from expanding over the years" Bowen said. He says the current school population stands at 502 pupils, including early childhood education children but all, including their 20 teachers, rely on rain water harvested in some four small water tanks. He says sometimes, during the dry season, the pupils are forced to scramble for dirty water down the seasonal streams, wasting their time. He appeals to the government and well-wishers to donate funds to drill a borehole in the school compound to address the water shortage. Furthermore, Chepkong'a also appeals to Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie to assist the parents in channeling part of the National Constituency Development Fund kitty to buy a school bus.  Sterling KCPE performance On Wednesday, Bowen led the parents and pupils to match about three kilometers to the school compound to celebrate the historical performance in the just announced KCPE results. A total of 80 candidates sat for last year's KCPE in the school —35 girls and 45 boys. The top four scored more than 400. The top candidate, Emanuel Kipkoech from Eldoret scored 426 to break the school's record four years ago of 406 marks. Kipkoech would like to join Alliance high school and aspires to become neurosurgeon after school. "I came to this school because of the fame and its historical performance over the years. But above all, it is always personal determination that is the key to success," Kipkoech said. He says although he appreciates the impeccable support from his teachers, parents and fellow pupils, he used to wake up early to study, without being forced by anyone, "knowing that after that accomplishing my education, I will one day have a good life and enjoy the longest sleeping time." The second candidate, who got many accolades from parents and teachers for setting and maintaining academic pace in last year’s class is the young Elijah Kangogo with 424 marks. His dream is to join Alliance High school, work harder to get an A and become a pilot. Nimrod Rotich was third with 411 marks, which he attributes to his teachers, hard work, perseverance and determination. He hopes to become aeronautical engineer. He is motivated by Microsoft's Bill Gates. Robert Korir finished fourth and didn't actually expect to score 402 marks. But he hoped to score at least 390 marks. He thanks God for the result. He hopes to pursue engineering at the university. He encouraged pupils behind him not to lose hope but work hard and "Even if you fail now but continue putting more efforts in your revision and have confidence, you will make it" he said. He lauds President Uhuru Kenyatta for identifying and appointing CSDr Fred Matiang'i to head the Education ministry, saying he has made drastic reforms in the docket "I am also happy that apart from ending exam cheating, Matiang'i has also successfully introduced digital marking devices that helped produce results faster and accurately than before" Korir said. Other candidates among 20 who scored 350 and above are Fridah Kirui (361) who wishes to join Nakuru high school and pursue her book publishing career in future. Parents praise the school Paul Tuikong says his son Nimrod, who scored 411 marks, is his third child to have sat for his KCPE in the school. "I am 10 years old as a parent in this school and I solely attribute the sterling performance to discipline, exemplary corporation from parents, teachers and board of management" Tuikong said. Tuikong also thanked Education CS Matiang'i for replenishing the sector with new tight rules. "We are now happy and confident as parents with the results of our children," he said. "Previously, there were myriad cases of exam cheating." He said he has constantly tracked the academic record of his child since January this year and "truly this is the right reflection of his performance." He further says it is the concern for every parent to search for a good school for their child, and that is why he has chosen and trusted Tandui with his children over the years. Miriam Rop, the mother of Kangogo, from Elgeyo-Marakwet county says during her school days at Tenges in Baringo between 1986-87, she used to admire Tandui for its music and acrobatic prowess. "I always believed my child would one day learn in this wonderful school and my dream has come true" said Ms Rop. She said she trusted the school with her child upon hearing its recognition in connection with the former president Moi. "I am happy that through Matiangi's headship results came early this year so that we as parents cannot misuse money during Christmas holiday. At least one will be disciplined, knowing that school fees is awaiting early next year," she said. Rop said all eyes is now on the government again on the form one selection, saying she expects every child to get admission commensurate to the KCPE performance. Bowen attributed the success of the school on team work, saying every stakeholder has always played a role. "Teachers doing their work to teach alone is not enough it is the concerted effort from all the stakeholders" he said adding that the major players are the candidates. He also thanked the school Board of Management chaired by Philip Kurgat and the Ministry of Education for monitoring to ensure the school produces quality results. The head also thanked the parents ,saying they all contributed to the success and have been very close to monitor their children performance. "We have never celebrated such gracious performance since the establishment of the school. I am now happy to have four of our candidates attain over 400marks," he said. The school mean score is 324. He said he fully supports all government initiatives to ensure zero malpractices in the exams “I urge Dr Matiang'i to strengthen his stringent measures even more" he said. Bowen said the system changes should extend to colleges and universities. "For instance the current reports of collapsing bridges or building in big towns is blamed squarely on the shoddy architectural workmanship so it trickles down to questionable academic paper work" said Bowen adding that we love our children and we don't like to spoil their lives.