Residents yesterday were taking stock of lost lives, dashed dreams and property damage in Embakasi East during battles between NASA supporters and police. At least two people were shot dead. Some residents say five people were killed. There was no official confirmation of the death toll. "I condemn police killings today (Tuesday) at Soweto in Embakasi East. We lost five prominent members of society because of police brutality," Embakasi East MP Babu Owino said. "A trail of bullet wounds, fractured limbs, five Kenyans dead and my smashed car on a day Jubilee didn't want to hear of memorial prayers at Jacaranda," former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale told reporters. NASA had planned to hold a memorial service at Jacaranda Grounds for all victims who lost their lives as a result of police clashes with their supporters. The service never took place because police broke up processions. On the night before, raw sewage was dumped at the site, making the meeting impossible. A motorbike repairman going by the name Maasai told the Star yesterday that protesters destroyed his makeshift garage, his only source of income. "They have taken away everything. I tried pleading with them to leave behind the mabati and not to destroy everything. They never listened. Instead, they started throwing stones and I had to run away for my safety. Maasai operates in front of Epren School, Savannah Estate opposite Donholm Primary School. Next to Maasai's kibanda is a tailor shop owned by a woman who said protesters looted all the clothing and used it to fuel fire that was used to set a tyre alight. She was devastated, saying her livelihood was destroyed. "We are always peaceful and never have we encountered any form of chaos with police or anyone else. What we have seen today is still shocking to most of us," a Donholm trader named Menja told the Star. The Outer Ring Road, which is soon to be completed, was filled with burning tyres as protesters ran from Jacaranda Grounds towards Manyanja Road. On November 17 city businesses at Stadium Market along Jogoo Road were closed indefinitely and others were looted and destroyed in clashes between NASA supporters and police.