Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has claimed Opposition leader Raila Odinga's Resistance Movement is dead. NASA transformed itself into the National Resistance Movement on the eve of the repeat presidential election. Leader Raila Odinga urged supporters to practice civil disobedience and resistance. "We call upon our supporters not to vote and to convince their neighbours not to take part in the poll because it is a Jubilee election," Raila said at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. He said the people should take instructions to boycott newspapers, TV stations, products and services in their bid for change in Kenya. More on this:Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott But Mutahi via twitter said "Raila Resistance Movement is dead on arrival. Safaricom should begin by freezing Raila Number." His sentiments were thwarted by his followers who said his ideas were also dead with others saying he was obsessed with Raila. "Have you ever realized even your opinions died a long time ago?" @fkopondo said. @PhilRevolt said "38 per cent will watch your fake column but 62 per cent will resist and boycott. No mercy." "Everybody should know that Mutahi Ngunyi ceased long ago from being a political thinker and is now a Raila obsessed practical politician,"@MiteiRobersaid. @JumaOmondi5 said" Raila this Raila that Raila here Raila there men you are girl." "Gosh! Lost count of the number of things you got wrong about Rao. Last time you thought the withdrawal was a sick joke and a prank. Fake," @dinovich said. @kiarie09 said "You've made Raila your primary subject day in day out,this shows that you have nothing new and your brain is no longer functioning.' "Stop using Raila as your main recipe in your editions. You want to seek undue attention? Go and steal from NYS again and you will be known to all," @MoSaKenya said. Other users defended Mutahi saying the Resistance Movement by the Opposition lacked a vision. "It's already dead, the movement members don't even have a vision, a mission or objectives, they are doomed to fail. Wiper HQs," @ItsDaudi said. @DanieliMagita said "Raila amechoka....aache kuchezea uchumi ambao ni tegemeo la wengi." After Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the president elect with 7.4 million by IEBC, Raila announced the formation of People's Assembly after reiterating the election was a sham and that only 3.5 million people voted. Raila said NASA will carry on with its restoration of democracy in line with the law. "There will be a broad-based forum of elected leaders and sector including workers, civil society, religious leaders and economic interest groups," he said at Okoa Kenya. More on this: 'Liberation struggle on': Raila forms People's Assembly Also read: IEBC has confirmed my victory but I'll accept court challenge - Uhuru Read: IEBC can't please everyone, election was proper - 'punching bag' Chebukati  