Currency printing firms De LA Rue and De LA Rue Kenya EPZ Ltd have moved to court challenging the Central Bank move of inviting tenders from foreign firms to print the new design Kenyan currency. The two, which include a local currency printing firm and a security printing firm, filed a case under certificate of urgency before the High Court arguing that the CBK had blocked the local firms from participating in the tender. They have accused the CBK of unlawfully restricting the tender process to foreign entities in violation of mandatory requirements guiding the procurement process. In the petition, they want the court to stop the tendering process pending determination of the case on grounds that the move will lead to irreparable harm to the local industry. They further argued that there is an increased national security risk in allowing the tender to proceed in its current form without due consideration given to the benefit of local production as well as destruction of the old notes. “Failure to halt the procurement process as commenced by CBK would lead the procurement process being completed and the tender awarded during the pendency of these proceedings and the petitioners would lose the opportunity to compete in the tender process,” they said. In his affidavit, the De La Rue Kenya CEO, Ian Davies, says that for purposes of ensuring sustainable promotion of local industry, a mandatory requirement as preliminary evaluation criteria should have been induced for all foreign tenderers to source at least 40 per cent of their supplies from citizen contractors to submit their bids as required under section 157( 9 ) of the act. “The law requires all public bodies including CBK to conduct a procurement process that is fair, equitable, transparent, and competitive and cost-effectiveness,” Davies said. According to him the procurement process is unfair and illegal because there was not justification for issuance of an international tender when the CBK was fully aware of the fact that the company has, for the last 25 years, been printing money and producing currency banknotes in Ruaraka, Nairobi. The firm also stated that the CBK has invited tenders from foreign tenderers by use of tender documents that do not comply with the mandatory requirements of the constitution. Through lawyer Anthony Njogu of Coulson Barney LLP Advocates, they asked Justice Chacha Mwita to issue conservatory orders stopping the tendering process pending the determination of the case. However the judge did not grant them the orders, but directed them to serve the application on CBK as the respondents to the case. The case will be mentioned on November 21.