The paradox of too many graduates ruing unemployment in a job market and industrial growth struggling with lack of skilled employees has raised concerns over students’ educational priorities. While there have been concerns on the high number of unemployed graduates, there are also serious concerns about the challenges experienced by the labour market in identifying and employing skilled workforce that meets its demands. Those that are skilled often find that their skills don’t match the opportunities on offer in the job market. More and more foreigners and retirees are taking or holding jobs due to lack of skilled graduates to deliver on technical assignments, yet there is a well-educated population joining the labour market. In May, the Public Service Commission announced that the government has retained up to 1,707 retirement-age employees in managerial and technical positions due to a skills shortage that has hindered their replacement. WHY THE SKILLS GAP? Critics blame the skills shortage on a general tendency in the education sector and the wider society to pay too much attention to university education at the expense of Technical Education and Vocational Training. TVET programmes guarantee a strong link between skills learnt and the needs of the labour market, by producing graduates with superior employability. But Education CS Fred Matiang’i has decried Kenyans’ obsession with degrees where students, parents and the society at large continue to treasure university degrees and despise skills-based training programmes offered at the TVET institutions. This leads to students studying for degree programmes and acquiring qualifications that often are not relevant to the labour market. Most graduates end up jobless for a long time or forever, for lack of skills that would secure them employment, and they end up “tarmacking” for years. The prestige placed on university education still persists, despite the fact that TVET graduates obtain relevant skills and stand higher chances of employment. Only the National Youth Service has been attracting youths due to its reputation in offering training and excellence to its graduates, but it admits less than 15,000 in a year. TVET institutions and Vocational Training Centres continue to be ignored, despite the government investing in them to offer skills-based training to build a skilled workforce. This trend has deeply affected the employability of graduates, since the market is saturated with degree-level graduates at the expense of TVET graduates who would have skills and competencies required in the labour market. The outcome of this is flooding with masses of graduates who cannot find gainful employment. Mining CS Dan Kazungu said the government has always been at pains whenever investors are setting up investments in the mining sector but come in with workers from their countries because they can’t find any locally. But on the other hand, the government wants them to employ its citizens and has often had to let them bring staff from their countries to work for them because of the reality it would be difficult to find them locally. Kazungu said Base Titanium, for instance, the leading mining firm in Kenya, has created around 3,000 jobs, but only about 2,000 were taken up by Kenyans for lack of skilled technicians. The CS has formed a committee to develop mechanisms of establishing a National Mining Institute to offer tertiary and vocational training on mining. The nine-member committee will deliver its recommendations in February next year. The committee has representatives from the Mining ministry, the University of Nairobi, Taita Taveta University, the Ministry of Education and TVET Authority among others. “We want to see a mix of Kenyan professionals from technical institutes who can take up a mechanical and technical roles in manning projects, as well as highly skilled professionals who can come out of our universities and take up major roles in other countries,” Kazungu said. The committee will ensure that in the shortest time possible, Kenya starts producing a highly skilled manpower for the mining sector to benefit from the opportunities in the sector. COST BARRIER But there are other problems that hinder the uptake of science and technical programmes. The courses have been found to be more expensive to set up, as compared to those in the arts and humanities. That makes it harder for universities and other institutions, government and parents to invest in the required facilities, infrastructure, equipment and the human capital needed to teach science and technology courses. This has led to a status where universities provide more academic programmes offered for students to study the arts, humanities and the social sciences, as opposed to applied sciences, engineering and technology needed in the labour market. Vision 2030 director general Julius Muia said the skills youths are getting through the university training as they do other kinds of training is a topical subject. Muia said in a number of infrastructure projects that are being implemented in the country under the economic growth blueprint, the contractors have had to import skilled labour although at lower level. “I will not say we are keeping statistics of how many foreigners that we have had to bring in because those foreigners are coming to provide our youths with on-the-job trainings.” Muia said the human capital challenge is not limited to skills students are offered in colleges. He said Kenya has not had the large infrastructure projects like the ones being undertaken in the country before, therefore, there was no opportunity for the youth to get practical training. “It doesn’t matter the kind of training you are giving to someone. There is always an apprenticeship aspect that the person has to get on the job. So initially, and if we are to be fair to ourselves, there is no way our youth will get the technical skills of, say, very high-level welding, specialised electrical training and even related works in infrastructure, until we have projects that will enable them to go and be trained on the job,” Muia said. “A lot of youths who are coming from TVETs are being trained. There is a working relationship between the TVETs and the contractors who are doing the major infrastructure projects, so that as the projects are being implemented, then the graduates from TVETs who are employed without [prior] practical skills are trained,” Muia. HIGH INVESTMENT, LOW INTAKE The government has upgraded 11 national TVETs to national polytechnics. They include NEP technical in Garissa, Singalangala, Kenya Coast and Kabete National polytechnics. Others are Kisumu, Eldoret, Meru, Nyeri, Kitale, Kisii and Kenya Technical Teachers College.  More than 70 new TVETs be built countrywide. The technical colleges had a student capacity of 36,499 in November last year, while Vocational Training Centres had an 80,905 student capacity. This has been increasing as construction of new and expansion of existing institutions goes on. However, students targeted in the improved TVET institutions continue to shun them in favour of universities and private colleges that offer non-technical courses. Training in TVET centres sharpens skills in the applied sciences, engineering and in technology among its graduates. Most universities’ academic programmes offer more opportunities for students to study the arts, humanities and the social sciences than the applied sciences, engineering and technology. Muia said companies undertaking various infrastructural projects have agreed to recruit from TVETs. “It is difficult to say we have XYZ number of foreigners, but the few that we have are very key to transfer of skills to our youths. There are agreements with contractors that they must include a component of skills transfer,” Muia said. “That is why, for instance, when the company that was doing the SGR, as they were supplying the locomotives, they took two Kenyan women aged below 28 years to China and trained them to be locomotive drivers. And now they are driving the Madaraka Express.”