Police have mapped out major roads in Nairobi as “red zones” as a security strategy for tomorrow’s swearing-in ceremony of President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. Nairobi police commander Japhet Koome said Mombasa Road from JKIA, Uhuru Highway, Museum and Wangari Maathai Roads and the Thika Superhighway up to Safaricom Kasarani Stadium will have heavy security. Koome said on Saturday the multi-agency operation will not compromise the security of the visiting heads of states. The “red zones” will be blocked from as early as 12am. The police boss said there will be aerial surveillance to ensure smooth security strategies during the coronation of the President and the ongoing UN Environmental Assembly at Unep. The military and specialised units of the General Service Unit are expected to play key roles. National Youth Service personnel will be manning crowds while Kenya Red Cross Society and Nairobi County Government paramedics will be on standby. “I have officers from specialised units from other counties. Officers drawn from all uniformed disciplines have been mobilised,” Koome said. It will be a historical day for the country and many international visitors and heads of state and government are expected for the event.  “Police are ready to provide security for both events at Kasarani and Unep. I will not go into details, but we have enough officers,” he said.  “We have committed, professional and patriotic officers. They are committed to ensuring Nairobi is safe for residents and our visitors,” he added.  “We will ensure nothing goes wrong. There will be peace. This is serious business. Anybody causing trouble along the “red zones” will be dealt with. Nothing will affect the security of heads of state,” Koome said.  The visitors will move from JKIA to select destinations. Koome said motorists must cooperate with police on diversions to allow smooth flow of traffic.   The commander said enough officers will be on the ground from Monday so the public must cooperate.  Trucks full of police officers from different counties were seen arriving in Nairobi as early as 6am yesterday. Koome has been meeting divisional police, AP and DCI commanders as well as senior Kenya Prisons Service officers for planning.  He said the National Police Service has outsourced officers from other uniformed disciplined services for reinforcement.    