  When then little-known junior US Senator from Illinois
Barack Obama announced in February 2007 his candidacy for President, many
doubted he stood any chance to even be nominated by the Democratic Party. Many
expected Hillary Clinton would be nominated instead. Indeed, this was the presumption throughout the
primaries until late in the game, when Obama surged and became unstoppable not
only in the Democratic Party primaries but also in the ensuing general election,
where he went on to win in a landslide against Republican nominee Senator John
McCain. However, Obama’s path to victory was never that
easy. There was such a large segment of the Democratic Party base, especially
women, that essentially saw Obama as unqualified, not because of the colour of
his skin, but because one; he was inexperienced and, two; they believed it was
time for a woman to be President and that was Hillary.  The opposition against Obama in the primaries was
so intense, and the hatred after his nomination so complete such that a group
of prominent women Democrats formed what they referred to as “Party Unity, My
Ass” or PUMA, representing their defiant opposition to Obama. The bitterness was not without basis. Some of these
women had worked so hard and thought Hillary represented the best chance for a
woman to become president then, and no doubt even herself resented the fact
Democrats opted to nominate Obama, whom she couldn’t stand for that reason
alone. However, in keeping with longstanding tradition in
American politics, when Obama became President, he reached out to Hillary and
offered her the prominent position of Secretary of State, which she accepted.  In other words, in American politics and in other
mature democracies, when you vanquish your opponent at the polls, you don’t
seek to completely destroy them thereafter. Instead, you reach out and try to
bring them along with their supporters closer to you or at least to a position
they don’t perceive you as an enemy and you don’t treat them as one. There are exceptions such as presently where
President Trump recently expressed frustration the Department of Justice was
not seeking to send to jail his 2016 election opponent and winner of the
popular vote, Hillary. But that’s rare: Most winners do genuinely try to reach
out to their opponents and they certainly don’t try to finish them after they
win. In Kenya, the tendency for those who have won,
especially those who have taken over the presidency — usually through rigging
except for 2002, the tendency is to try and completely finish their opponents,
or at least make their lives as miserable as possible so as not to be a threat
to their power again.  The Supreme Court annulled the presidential
election of August 8 and ordered a fresh election within 60 days. The IEBC set
the election date for October 26 but Raila Odinga and NASA boycotted the
election on grounds their irreducible minimums for electoral reforms were not met.
This, in the view of this writer and many others, was an historic blunder. The election was conducted as scheduled and Uhuru
was declared winner. The margin or percentage is irrelevant, given he was the
only serious candidate on the ballot. At least three petitions have been filed at the
Supreme Court to challenge the election but every one of them will be dismissed
if anything, to preserve the importance and significance of the Court’s
historic decision. Meanwhile, Raila and NASA have launched a campaign
to make Uhuru governing impossible. The President-elect will likely respond in
retaliation with the loser being nearly everyone save for the few who can avoid
the impact. Neither Raila nor Uhuru can win under these
circumstances. So, for the sake of our beloved country, it behoves the two to
sit down and find a solution to break this impasse, and save the country from
certain calamity and irreparable harm doing otherwise.   Samuel
Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States      