Operations on the Migori-Isebania highway came to a standstill for hours as residents engaged in civil disobedience over the garbage menace. Migori traders, taxi drivers and boda boda operators during the Friday market day, when the town is busy, dumped garbage on the highway, accusing the county government of failing to collect it. The crowd took control of the market after waiting in vain until past 10pm for cleaners to remove the garbage. “Garbage should be collected before 6am, when we report to work. For the past one month, garbage collection has been erratic. We took action after three days in a dirty town,” Alice Atieno, who sells fruits, said. The crowd targeted county government vehicles caught up during the snarl-up.   county official dismissed Suna West subcounty administrator Charles Kionge’s attempt to address the crowd failed. He left the scene on foot as county workers were targeted to help collect the garbage. Speaking on the phone on Friday, Kionge said the workers had planned to collect the garbage, but the traders did so first. Environment executive Elijah Odhiambo was unavailable for comment. Youths said they later resorted to dumping the garbage on county government lorries after being paid about Sh12,000 to clear the mess and allow traffic to open up.  same scenario in march In March, traders stopped several county government vehicles and dumped garbage in them to protest against the menace. County government officials who accompanied Odhiambo then were forced to pick up shovels and jembes, collect the garbage and place it in their vehicles, when they went to address traders. Protester John Ochieng’ said, “We don’t want county officials to come here and mock us with inspections when our complaints about a dirty town have fallen on deaf ears.” On Friday, traders said they will continue civil disobedience until the town is cleaned.  punctual tax collectors “They are very punctual in collecting taxes and levies from us, but fail to deliver services. These actions will continue in future. We cannot risk our health and that of our customers over laziness,” John Robert, a taxi driver, said.  