A postmortem on the body of Doctor Boutrous Mbugua Waithaka who was murdered in Eldoret has indicated that his head was crushed with a blunt object. He worked at the Moi Referral Hospital where a postmortem was done on the body. The postmortem revealed that he died of head injuries arising from the impact of a blunt object which smashed the right side of his skull and soaked his brain with blood leading to death. “We have been given results of the postmortem and we are now in the process of planning his burial”, said his Cousin George Kibanya. A funeral service was yesterday held the hospital before Dr Mbugua’s body was transferred to the Kenyatta University funeral home ahead of burial on Tuesday November 21st. He will buried at his parents’ home Ha Matu, Gatanga in Kiambu County Police are at an advanced stage in investigations into the killing of the medic. Investigators are pursuing the gangsters who used a sewer line concrete cover to crush his head after gaining entry into the house  The twenty five year old doctor Mbugua was found murdered in his house last Sunday within the upper class Elgon View estate about three kilometers from the referral hospital. Kibanya said they found some items had been stolen from the house including food that was in the fridge, a mobile phone and TV set. "He was a humble young man whose life was just beginning and had already completed his course as a surgeon", said Kibanya. Parents to the deceased travelled from their home in Kiambu to Eldoret for postmortem and transfer of the body to Nairobi. "It's his girlfriend Liz Chepkorir girlfriend who called the parents to break the bad news", said Kisanya. The medic lived alone in the house where he was attacked but was often visited by the girlfriend who was away at the time of the incident Dr Waithaka had gone missing since Friday and the hospital sent Chepkorir who also works at the hospital to look for him on Sunday only to find that he had been killed. She found his body on a mattress in the house that had been broken into. Eldoret South OCPD Wilson Abduba says they have made good progress in the probe. “We will bring those involved to book as soon as possible”, said Abduba. Part of the perimeter fence at the house had also been cut by the attackers. "All we now want is speedy investigations so that those involved are brought to book", said Kibanya. He said the medic had talked to his parents hours before the incident and he did not complain of any threats. CEO of the hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa said the hospital got concerned when he failed to report on duty on Saturday and dispatched colleagues to the house where the deceased lived alone. “He was a very humble and dedicated doctor and we regret his killing”, said Dr Aruasa. Abduba said they were yet to establish the motive behind the killing because nothing was stolen from the house. “We only found a stone in the house and we suspect it was used to kill him after those involved broke into the house”, said Abduba. He said they had launched a security operation to find the suspects involved in the killing of the medic. Police arrived at the house and dusted the scene before taking the body to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. Dr Aruasa asked the police to speed up investigations into the killing so that just is done and those involved are brought to book.