NASA leader Raila Odinga has insisted that the country must hold a fresh election in February 2018. The Opposition leader, who has dismissed the October 26 vote, said that the new election "will be the only way for people to get justice". Out of about 19 million registered voters, IEBC declared Uhuru Kenyatta president-elect with 7,483,895 votes. This represented 98.27 per cent of the valid votes cast in the fresh election which Raila, who was his main challenger, boycotted. The election has been challenged at the Supreme Court in two separate petitions. Read: Njonjo Mue, Khelef Khalif file petition against Uhuru's win Also read: Harun Mwau files petition challenging Uhuru's re-election The NASA leader, in a meeting with Daniel Twining - President of the US' International Republican Institute, said he wants the fresh poll as ordered by the Supreme Court. "We discussed Kenya's political situation with particular emphasis on threats to democracy, constitutionalism and the rule of law," he said after the meeting. More on this: West failed Kenya during election but it's not too late, Raila tells CSIS The court, when it nullified Uhuru's August 8 win, ordered that a fresh election is held within 60 days from September 1. The apex court said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission committed illegalities and irregularities which affected the result. The 60-day period following the judgement expired on October 31. "We as NASA coalition maintain that justice must be done for our people through a free and fair election as ordered by the Supreme Court," Raila tweeted on Friday. The post attracted mixed reactions from Kenyans who either backed him or dismissed it as a dream. “Which country are you living in? The SCOK had ordered for a repeat of the polls which were conducted freely and fairly by IEBC on the 26th of October,” Atemo Gor said. @RMumbu said: "I thought the constitution is supreme.It governs the same people u talk of freeing. Why should it all be about u 'baba?' Is it going to b free & fair if u won coz that's how it seems? For me it's NOT about us but YOU." Njenga John tweeted: “The supreme court ordered an election in 60 days, you absconded. You want to be a judge in your own case?” His supporters welcomed the idea, asking him for the way forward on the new push for a fresh election. "Whatever you say we will follow. say right, we go right," tweeted Oyamo Beauttah. Another twitter user identified as Benedict Kimotho said: “Baba, you don't have to respond to those who attack, belittle, and insult you may nt see it bt God is dealing with them...[sic]” Simon Mwai said: “It is high time we liberate our motherland. We have been slaves since colonial era up to date. The war is not about Jubilee & Nasa no! It is about producers & consumers. I stand with Baba!” Some of those who replied to Raila's tweet chided him for holding on to the presidency claim for too long. They say time for election is over and it is prudent that Raila "lets the country move forward." Tuwei Felix said: "We are done with election, so let's give time the Supreme court to do their part.But sure we shall #resist Nusu mkate. Hakuna Nusu mkate baba." Others urged him on saying they cannot afford another five years under the Jubilee administration. Read: 'Balaa': Ruto shocked that 'Raila went to US to scuttle 2022 bid'    