Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has dared Opposition leader Raila Odinga to swear himself on the December 12. Raila announced that he will be sworn-in as President through the People's Assembly and get into State House. On Tuesday, shortly after Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto's swearing-in at Kasarani stadium, Raila told his supporters that he will get to the statehouse on Jamuhuri day.  "Uhuru Kenyatta is not the President of Kenya. We will not be sworn-in like  [Ugandan Opposition leader Kizza] Besigye. We will be sworn-in like it was done with [Emmerson] Mnangagwa in Zimbabwe," he said. More on this: I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Via Twitter on Tuesday, Mutahi said a tiger does not declare its tigritude but rather it pounces. "Raila should swear himself in if he is not a coward. Then he will become a Military target for overthrowing a government," Mutahi said. His tweet was not taken lightly as he received mixed reactions from his followers. "Sir, you have a demonic spirit that the devil uses to bring down strongholds. What demons do they throw fiery darts to their targets to burn and to be destroyed? That's what you do and specialize in. Your spirit needs to be cast out in Jesus name," @nickobiero said. @ItsKhaemba said, "Baba's government will make sure you're provided with enough ARVs, you shouldn't be worried." "Without Raila, you have nothing to write, then you're a beneficiary of Raila's politics," @lizznzuki2017 said. @Vincentoichoe said, "Desperate Ngunyi is begging Uhuru for a job using Raila as a core tower,,,utapewa kazi serikali ni yenu bwana wajana na Raila." "Your government has to be constantly defended by the police & imaginary kdf because its illegitimate, it will not last long to give you another term to loot again," @MandelaMuisyo said. @ewaya said "Why do you hate Raila? I think you are so partisan that your opinions don't matter anymore. Better shut up and enjoy NYS money." "How about if the Government military misses that target and instead the Government becomes the target. When the hunter becomes the hunted," @MulwodoJOriaro said. @Ismailshikuri said "Raila is not going to swear himself in but it is us. We the people of this great nation are going to swear in Raila and put an end to the hypocritical despotic jubilee regime." He added, "You can rule by the power of the gun but eventually the power of the people will catch up with you." Other users sided with Mutahi saying that the electoral process as over and that Raila cannot accept defeat. "Raila can't do that...but he can't stand the shame to stand like a man publicly accept defeat," @SKisenger said. @wangarihmubibuh said "He will change the date again from 12th Dec to 25th Dec on 24th Dec he will change to 26th Dec and box his way." "Exactly! Odinga withdrew from the election without withdrawing from the election. He will claim he will declare himself president but he knows and James Orengo( his coup planner) knows it's treasonous. Is he going to do it? Let's wait and see....," @Kabando_IV said. Chaos broke out before Raila could finish his speech along Manaja road on Tuesday; police moved in to disperse his supporters using tear gas and gunshots. They fired many shots and teargassed Raila's convoy, forcing the supporters to hide between cars.  Read:  Two shot dead in Soweto as police keep NASA supporters off Jacaranda Also read: Cops fire tear gas, seal off Jacaranda grounds ahead of NASA rally   Click here for the latest political news  