Hopes and expectations were high among city residents when Mike Sonko took over as the second governor of Nairobi on August 21. The residents hoped the garbage, which had chocked them for the past five years would be managed, corruption at City Hall would be reduced, if not eradicated, and poor roads in the city repaired. The poor slum dwellers pined their hopes on the governor to stock drugs in city's public hospitals and motorists and traders expected parking and trade licensing fees to be reduced. Sonko and Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe raised the expectations even higher when they unveiled their 'ambitious Sonko and Igathe' seven-point point manifesto on July 24 to 'fix Nai.' Sonko promised to perform 'radical surgery' on the ailing county in 100 days to solve the problems that had crippled the city's progress. Top on the governor's 100 days promises were the reduction of the parking fee by a half, scrapping of trade licensing fee for small-scale traders commonly known as Mama Mbogas and reduce licensing fees for medium and large-scale traders . He also promised free medical cover for all slum dwellers. Last month, he fulfilled one of his promises-that of scrapping trade license for Mama Mboga. On October 2, he ordered a ban on fees charged on the traders. They used to pay a Sh30 daily fee. Sonko is, however, yet to reduce parking fee from Sh300 paid currently to Sh140 as it used to be before former Governor Evans Kidero increased it. He has also not uttered a word on his promise to engage the National Hospital Fund to ensure poor residents get health cover. “Kidero increased all these fees by 100 per cent without involving the people of Nairobi. But where has all these money been going to?” he posed when he launched his manifesto. During his address to the county assembly in September, Sonko promised to propose an amendment to the Finance Act to reduce trade fees by 20 per cent. The county treasury has not, however, submitted this proposal to the assembly. Both Sonko and Igathe have not responded to several phone calls and messages sent to them on the achievements they have made since they assumed office. But speaking during an interview on NTV last week, Igathe said, “ We now have a clear understanding of the challenge we have at hand to deliver in the next five years.” He acknowledged “we are not shooting" at the pace they promised in terms of service delivery. He was at pain to explain why the city was dirty despite promising the county would be clean in 100 days. “We are not shooting at the standard we promised in terms of clearing up the garbage. We started by entrusting the job to the people who were doing it before, they have disappointed us,” he said. Sonko and Igathe had promised to engage communities at ward levels and introduce better garbage collection system to clean the city. But today, heaps of uncollected garbage have become an eyesore in the CBD and estates. About the hawkers, who have literally taken over pavements and backstreet in the city centre, Igathe said they were in the process of registering the vendors, designating spaces for them and building markets to accommodate them. “Hawkers problem is caused by collapse in education systems. We produce at least 200,000 unskilled youth every year. On reducing congestion in city centre, Sonko pledges to use technology in controlling traffic and give incentives to saccos and companies to introduce high-capacity buses. None of these has materialised. Sonko and Igathe promised to hold 'a Nairobi we want convention' involving all the stakeholder to discuss how to grow the city within three weeks of assuming office. He promised to revoke illegal contracts, audit county property, prepare county asset register and recover lost assets. All senior county staff were also to be committed to a code of accountability and their working conditions improved. None of these has been actualized. Sonko promised to develop an affordable housing plan, increase spending on health, review and change county health management system and ensure all basic medicines are available in all health facilities.