More than 1,800 girls are expected to undergo female genital mutilation in Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties during the December holidays, an NGO’s Council official has said. Chairman Stephen Cheboi on Friday said civil society groups working in the region have reported plans to have young girls undergo circumcision, especially in December. “We urge the state to use its machinery to ensure FGM is wiped out from these areas,” he said. Cheboi said FGM cases are still being reported in 15 counties, including Kisii, Migori, Narok and Kajiado. “We have made a lot of gains in the war against FGM and that should not be reversed by people who don’t want civilisation,” Cheboi said. Early this week, two girls aged 14 and 15 were forcibly circumcised in Kaptul village, Marakwet East. Area chief Paul Chepkirui said parents of the girls and a traditional circumciser are being hunted by police after they went underground. The parents are said to have forced the girls to undergo the illegal cut. He said the girls who sat their KCPE exam have been taken to hospital for treatment. “The case is still being handled at the office of the assistant county commissioner and action will be taken,” Chepkirui said. He said the girls had resisted the forced circumcision, but were overpowered. “FGM is outlawed and those who did it will face the law,” Chepkirui said.  The case has also been referred to the office of county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki.  He has directed chiefs and other administrators to ensure FGM is stopped. Former MP and anti-FGM crusader Linah Kilimo condemned the recent mutilation.  “Those involved must be punished according to law to serve as an example to others,” she said. Government officials and civil society groups have been meeting chiefs and village elders to educate people on the need to stop FGM. FGM is supposed to eliminate sexual desire, making girls ‘pure’ and faithful wives. In many communities, girls must be mutilated before they can be married. Some men reject non-mutilated wives.