Five Kenyan sailors stranded in Indonesia have been arrested and fined Sh102,000 each for illegal stay in the country. The sailors were arrested by Indonesian immigration authorities on Wednesday, after it was found that their passports had no entry stamps. Their ship had been detained. The International Transport Workers Federation’s inspector in charge of East Africa, Betty Makena, blamed the ship agent for failing to take passports for stamping by immigration officers. “The agent should have collected the passports and taken them to the immigration authorities for stamping,” Makena said on Wednesday. Captain Mzee Khamis, Mapinga Mwalimu (bosun), Yusuf Omar (greaser), Aggrey Diedi (electrician) and Tela Juma (cook) were on the MV Queen Bihanga, a general cargo ship that was detained in Indonesia. Ship owner Diego Rafiki refused to pay for the detention, saying the crew abandoned the ship when they went to the Kenyan consulate in Indonesia. Last week, the sailors went to the consulate to seek help after they stayed for 10 days without food. They refused to leave the consulate without help, forcing them to spend the night there. Makena said Rafiki had agreed to pay the fine.  “We put pressure on him to do so,” Makena said. It is not yet clear whether the sailors will be charged in court. “Let them be calm as we look for a solution,” Rafiki said. Makena yesterday told the Star that ITWF, the Kenya Maritime Authority and the Kenyan consulate in Indonesia were all working to ensure the Kenyans are released. “There is no way they will escape that fine. They will be detained until it is paid. But with all the institutions involved, that fine will be paid and our sailors will be freed,” Makena said.  The five seamen had, in February, gone to the Philippines to sail the vessel which Rafiki had bought from China. They were sailing to Mombasa when the vessel developed mechanical trouble near Malaysia in August last year. It then sailed to Indonesia where it developed more mechanical trouble. The vessel was detained in May this year, at the Port of Jarkata. The Indonesian authorities said it was not fit to sail. The crew then ran out of food. the shipowner is required to provide food and water to them. Efforts to reach KMA head of maritime services David Muli for comment on the matter were futile.