A group of Jubilee politicians will present a petition to the National Assembly for the dissolution of seven counties that passed the Bill on the People's assembly. The politicians are under the Council of Kenya Professionals. The petition further wants Treasury to cut off the national share of funding sent to the seven counties in Nyanza and Western. They are Siaya, Homa Bay, Vihiga, Busia, Kisumu, Migori and Kakamega, which are NASA's strongholds. In a press briefing on Thursday, CPK chairman Ababu Namwamba said the move by various county assemblies to pass the People's Assembly motion was illegal and outside the law. "The idea of forming people's assemblies is in capitalist economies and dangerous for the peace, stability and democracy of a nation," he sad. "It will also result in misuse of funds because those sitting in the assembly will be paid." The assemblies are part of the opposition's strategies to resist President Uhuru Kenyatta's win in the October 26 repeat election. NASA candidate Raila Odinga withdrew days to the election, citing lack of reforms at the IEBC. He said the outcome of the election was pre-determined. The coalition says the assemblies will be used to restore democracy, Constitution superiority and the rule of law. But Ababu said, "The National Treasury should stop disbursing funds to these counties because the idea is a waste of taxpayers' money and the Bill was done without consultation with the very people who selected MCAs to county assemblies." Speaking to The Star, political analyst Wesley Simba disagreed with the politician, saying such changes would take more than a petition to Parliament. A referendum will also be required to scrap counties from the constitution, he said. "Cutting off funding to these counties would amount to discrimination and will even create sharper political divisions should the National Assembly and Senate agree to stop the disbursement." On Wednesday, Nominated legislator David Sankok said Jubilee Party plans to use its 'tyranny of numbers' to defeat the proposed secession Bill that NASA is set to table in Parliament. The Bill by Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma is for the formation of two states in Kenya - the People's Republic of Kenya and the Central Republic of Kenya. Jubilee Strategist Washington Makodingo has drafted a Bill seeking to exclude Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties from Kenya. Makodingo wants Article 5 of the constitution amended to redefine Kenya's territory and exclude the four counties.