Kirinyaga politicians have defended Governor Anne Waiguru over the use of Sh51.9 million raised for President Uhuru Kenyatta re-election campaigns. The leaders said on Monday that allegations are malicious and meant to to taint Waiguru's reputation and sabotage her administration. Led by majority leader James Murango, the leaders said all the money allocated to campaigns ahead of the October 26 vote was accounted for. "Firstly, the amount quoted in the media is false; whereas pledges amounted to Sh32 million, only Sh12,240,000 was contributed in cash to the campaign account at Cooperative Bank," he said. "An additional Sh4,500,000 was given by Kirinyaga professionals from their separate account."  Murango noted that he, Mwea MP Wachira Kabinga, MCA Wanjiru Njeru and Alister Murimi were the signatories to the account and that they represented various stakeholders who made contributions. "It is important to note that neither the Governor nor the Deputy Governor were signatories to this account. The public should also know contributors either gave cash to the campaign kitty or directly funded campaign activities." Related: Waiguru's efforts pay off as Kirinyaga chooses Uhuru Murango added that among those who opted to directly fund campaign activities were woman representative Purity Ngirici who pledged Sh1,000,000. He said this went directly to the campaign. "Others were Kabinga who pledged Sh500,000 but only gave Sh200,000 in cash, Kirinyaga Central MP Munene Wambugu who pledged Sh1 million but only gave Sh200,000 in cash and Ndia MP George Kariuki who pledged Sh500,000 but did not give any cash to the campaign kitty." The MCA said county members pledged Sh4.2 million but only gave Sh1.8 million. Murango called on other leaders to account for money, saying funds Jubilee Party sent to agents were disbursed directly to lawmakers. He noted this money did not go through the campaign account and that the MPs were responsible for payments to agents. "Every shilling that was contributed was used to finance county campaign activities that were held and paid for in full. The on-going smear campaign is a calculated move by some leaders affiliated to cartels that have held the people of Kirinyaga hostage for years." Murango addressed the press accompanied by Njeru and Murimi, who represents Kirinyaga professionals.