Losers of the August 8 election in Nyamira and Kisii counties have dominated the list of applicants for East Africa Legislative Assembly positions. Former MPs Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Omingo Magara (South Mugirango), Mwancha Okioma (Kitutu Masaba) and Joseph Kiangoi (North Mugirango) are among tapplicants. Kiangoi is a former EALA MP. More on this: Oburu, Mungatana among ex-MPs eying EALA slots, 75 bids presented Bosire, who is ODM treasurer, lost to Jubilee Party’s Shadrack Mose while Okioma contested the Nyamira governor seat and lost to John Nyagarama. Others seeking to represent the country in the regional assembly include former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae, who failed in his bid to become Kisii senator. Magara and Nyachae lost to ODM's Sam Ongeri. Journalist Dorice Donya, who lost her bid for Kisii woman representative, is also eyeing a seat in the regional assembly. She lost to Janet Ong'era. Others who unsuccessfully sought parliamentary seats and want to be EALA MPs are advocate Charles Ongoto (West Mugirango) and Justus Mochoge (Kitutu Chache South). James Maganda, who coordinated JP presidential campaigns in Nyamira has also applied. He is said to enjoy the support from a section of professionals who campaigned for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Prior to that month's elections, JP prevailed upon Charles Mochama to drop his governor bid for an EALA seat. Mochama dropped out and supported party candidate Walter Nyambati. He has applied hoping the party will keep its promise. On Saturday, North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko said the battle for the nine EALA seats will be very competitive. "Before elections, we reached the consensus that this seat should remain in Nyamira county. We hope the agreement stands. We expect the government to keep it's promise," said the MP.   "The party will do shortlisting and give us the candidates but if we don't reach consensus, we might lose the seat. As a county, we expect to be rewarded because we delivered vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto." Click here for the latest political news