The time to challenge Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26th election lapses today. Raila Odinga boycotted the exercise and may not challenge the outcome. NGO Coordination Board chairman Fazul Mahamed has targeted activist Khalef Khalifa on claims of tax evasion, an indicator that a petition to the Supreme Court may come from civil society. Circumstances in which Raila’s petition was decided have been repeated with aggravation, in ways that threaten the Court’s independence. Soon after the September 1st decision invalidating his election, Uhuru went on the rampage, threating to ‘fix’ the majority four judges for conducting a ‘judicial coup’ against him. A Jubilee legislator petitioned the JSC to remove CJ Maraga from office. Another petitioner demanded removal of DCJ Mwilu and Judge Lenaola. The claimed evidence in support of the latter complaint disclosed the footprints of government Intelligence agencies in its accumulation. Then followed a crackdown by Fazul on NGOs funding the activities of the Judiciary. Within the Jubilee-dominated National Assembly and Senate, there was talk of trimming the powers of the Court on presidential election petitions. Again, the possibility of a judge other than the CJ witnessing the swearing-in of the President-elect was discussed. Three days to the election, Judge Mwilu’s driver was shot in her official car, in what is believed to have been an assassination attempt or scare on her. Whatever the case, the quorum hitch resulting from the traumatized judge’s inability to attend court on October 25th, to hear a case seeking to stop the election, disclosed that all was not well. Confounding also was the government’s gazettement of the hearing date as a public holiday and the unexplained absence of judges Ojwang and Wanjala. Interestingly, the Court of Appeal sat at night to validate the appointment of poll officials, which had been invalidated earlier in the morning by the High Court. With only seven judges and a minimum quorum of five, the Supreme Court is a fragile court. It may be interfered with by calculated machinations of parties to derail or prevent it from hearing a case, as happened on October 25th. The election proceeded without a decision on its validity, following Raila’s withdrawal, on the strength of the Court’s 2013 decision that a withdrawal terminates the election, necessitating fresh nominations. A second petition is one that must go through, if the Court is not intimidated or interfered with. The writer is a lawyer.