The High Court has directed Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu to file a response to a petition seeking to restrain him from investigaing the Chief Justice and judges of the Supreme Court. In the case, human rights activist Okiya Omtatah is seeking to stop the prosecution of any Supreme Court judge, including CJ Maraga, in relation to the September 1 ruling that nullified the August 8 presidential election. Omtatah argues the MP violated the rights of the CJ and wants the court to order him to pay Sh10 million to Maraga as compensation for damaging his reputation. In September, Wambugu petitioned the Judicial Service Commission to remove Maraga from office. Ngunjiri claimed the CJ executed a judicial coup by annulling the presidential results, adding that he had substantive evidence to support his claims. He further said there is evidence the CJ exerted undue pressure on the other Supreme Court judges to make the judgment. However, in his petition, Omtatah wants the court to bar Ngunjiri and his agents from prosecuting or investigating Maraga. He said the MP’s petition does not raise any issues that warrant investigation of the CJ. Omtatah further said Ngunjiri portrayed the Judiciary as a body incapable of making its own decisions and that all its decisions are influenced by the CJ and other bodies with no consideration to the evidence provided before it. The activist also said the Judiciary is one of the independent organs of the state that plays an oversight role to the other arms of government.  The MP’s continued attack and intimidation of Maraga and other judges gravely affects the confidence and ability of the judicial officers to work independently,” Omtatah said “Without verifying whether the allegations were true, the MP also attacked the school that trains officers of the court - the Judicial Training Institute - by alleging the CJ created an obtuse accountability framework,” the petition reads. This comes even after the MP publicly said he didn’t intend to pursue his petition for Maraga’s removal from office. The case will be heard in February next year.