Ganze residents on Friday held demonstrations against the sale of over 66,000 acres of Giriama ranch. They said some of the ranch directors and local politicians sold the parcel to a private company at Sh13 billion. The angry lot waved placard written 'Riva Oil sio Mmiliki wa Giriama ranch’ (Riva oil is not the owner of
Giriama ). "Twataka haki yetu watu wa Ganze’ (we want justice as Ganze residents). We  want back our land," some read. Others read: "Joseph
Kingi na Kazungu Kambi wacheni kutunyanyasa." (Joseph Kingi, Kazungu Kambi, stop exploiting us). The group asked the National Land Commission to resolve the row so as to save their land from the 'grabbers'. The protesters said more
than 15,000 people will lose their ancestral homes if the sale process is complete
 Kenga Fondo, 62, said the ranch was set up to safeguard
the land from grabbers . "My father was among
the residents who started the ranch as a way of protecting the community land," he told journalists. "Some directors colluded with politicians to sell it." He said Ezekiel Karisa, a former
powerful chief, lured the residents to surrender the land for commercial livestock ranching. Fondo said the project
collapsed due to high rate of illiteracy amongst the residents leading to huge
debts and losses. He said the community leased the land to Kizingo butchery before the ranch was changed to a private property without their knowledge. Fondo said a company associated with former Labour CS
Kazungu Kambi used the ranch as security
to secure a Sh258 million loan from African development Bank. Kambi dismissed claims that he was a director of the ranch and denied having any
links with the owners.
 Johnson Charo, another
resident, said the few directors who changed ownership of the ranch did it
illegally.  "They had no right to sell the land as it belonged to the community." Former Ganze MP
Joseph Kingi, Gonzi Masha, Akram Amran, Emanuel Mbaga, and Samuel Mwangego
are among local politicians whose names featured. A memorandum to the local administrators showed that Kambi was among the biggest beneficiaries. Bamba MCA Christopher Mwambire said the problems in the controversial ranch
begun on 2003 when they stopped a private developer from using it for
agribusiness.
 He said in 2007, a title deed which issued in 1969
disappeared mysteriously and was replaced with a new one belonging to a private
company. The MCA led the
delegation to present their petition to the area assistant county commissioner
Francis Mambo. They are seeking to stop any transaction on the communal land. Rajab Menza, one of the
ranch directors who turned up for a media interview, was roughed up and chased
away by the angry residents.
    