Several roads will be closed in Nairobi from Saturday night to Sunday 1pm to give room for the 14th edition of the Standard Chartered marathon. The marathon is the flagship project for the  'Seeing is Believing' community initiative that aims to raise funds for the needy. The race is also used to identify and provide opportunities for local athletic talent, market Kenya internationally, and as a family fun day. Last year’s event attracted over 22,000 participants from all walks of life. Uhuru Highway, Mombasa Road, Langa’ata Road, Haile Sellasie Avenue and Museum Hill roads will be affected. Others are University Way, Moi Avenue, Kenyatta Avenue, Harambee Avenue and Lower Hill road. Uhuru Highway will be closed from 11pm on Saturday and be opened at 12:30pm Sunday. One lane of the road will however be open to traffic until 4am Sunday. All the other roads will be closed at 4am and open at between 10am and 12:30pm. Those to be opened at 10am include Museum Hill, University Way, Moi Avenue, Kenyatta Avenue and Uhuru Highway’s inbound lane between Museum Hill and Kenyatta Avenue. Harambee Avenue and Uhuru Highway’s outbound lane between and Museum Hill will be opened at 11am.  Haile Selassie Avenue and Mombasa Road will be opened between noon and 12:30pm  Single lanes will however be open to traffic at Haile Sellasie roundabout near Railways Bus station and Lang'ata Road roundabout hear T-Mall for traffic accessing Moi Avenue and those heading to South C respectively from Lang’ata road.  Traffic diversion During the road closures, traffic will be diverted as follows. Vehicles from the the city centre to Westlands and Kileleshwa will use Globe Cinema Roundabout, Kipande road and Ojijo Roads. Those from the CBD to Muthaiga, Kiambu and Thika will use Globe Cinema Roundabout and Muranga Roadd. Limuru Road will also be accessible. Vehicles from the CBD JKIA, Machakos and Mombasa should use Landhies Road, Jogoo Road and join Outer Ring Road in Donlholm. Those from the CBD to Karen via Westlands should use Globe Cinema Roundabout, Kipande and Ojijo Roads before joining Waiyaki Way and James Gicheru Road. Traffic from the City Centre to Karen via Langata should use Landhies Road, Enterprise Road then join the Southern by-pass and drop off on Langata Road. Westlands, Parklands into the CBD Vehicles from Westlands and Parklands heading into City Centre will be diverted to Kipande Road and Globe Cinema Roundabout. Westlands, Parklands to Karen should use Waiyaki Way-James Gicheru Road or Riverside Drive while those heading to Langata will use Riverside Drive, Arboretum, Statehouse Road, Mbagathi Way and join Langata Road. Those heading to the JKIA, Machakos and Mombasa from Westlands and Parklands will use Ngara Road, Landhies Road, Jogoo Road and join Outer Ring Road in Donholm. Hurlingham, Kileleshwa, Nairobi Hill into the CBD Vehicles from the above areas heading into the CBD will use State House Road, Arboretum road and Riverside Drive then join Kipande Road and head to Globe Cinema roundabout. Those heading to JKIA, Machakos and Mombasa will use Mbagathi Way, Muhoho Avenue in South C, cross Uhuru Highway to Industrial area, Dunga Road, Dar Es Salaam Roadand Enterprise Road. Traffic from Langata Into the City Centre will use Langata Road then head to Mbagathi Way, join Valley Road, head down to State House Road, Arboretum Drive and Riverside Drive then Kipande Road and head to Globe Cinema roundabout. Vehicles from Langata to JKIA, Machakos, Mombasa via South C will use Langata Road, the Southern bypass, Enterprise Road and join Mombasa Road. Those fom Karen into the CBD via Westlands will use James Gicheru Road (through Lavington) and Waiyaki Way or Arboretum Drive and Riverside Drive, then Kipande Road and Globe Cinema roundabout. Motorists from Karen to the JKIA, Machakos and Mombasa should use Langata Road, the Southern bypass, Enterprise Road and Mombasa Road. From Nakuru to Mombasa, vehicles should use the Northern and Eastern Bypasses. From Embakasi, Machakos, Mombasa into the Industrial area, vehicles should use Mombasa Road and Enterprise Road. While those into the CBD should use Mombasa Road, Outer Ring Road, Jogoo Road and Landhies Road. Traffic from Embakasi, Machakos, Mombasa to Westlands and Parklands should use the Eastern By-pass and join Thika Highway. Those heading to South C, Langata, Nairobi Hill and Kileleshwa should use Mombasa Road, Enterprise Road, the Southern by pass, Langata Road and then join Mbagathi Way. Traffic from Embakasi, Machakos and Mombasa heading to Thika and Nakuru should use the Eastern By-pass then join Thika Highway. Finally, vehicles using Haile Selassie Road between Railway Club and Railway Golf Club will be diverted along Procession way through Uhuru Park. Also read: City mortuary roundabout to be closed two weeks for roadworks -KURA Click here for the latest political news