NASA yesterday called on the International Criminal Court to launch investigations into mass killings of its supporters. At the same time, opposition chiefs Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula said they will advise their supporters on what to do to protect themselves from police brutality. In a statement yesterday, the leaders expressed concern on atrocities meted on their supporters. More on this: Amnesty International asks Uhuru to stop police killings They said police beatings, maiming and killing of opposition supporters fit the threshold for international crimes. As such, they asked the ICC to swing into action. They said the violence meted on their supporters is state-sponsored and planned. “We will very shortly be announcing a list of self-protection measures,” the statement signed by Raila's adviser Salim Lone said. “We as well call upon the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the ICC and other protection organisations to immediately begin collecting evidence which will identify atrocities that should be treated as international crimes,” they added. NASA asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to end "slaughter" of opposition supporters especially from Nyanza, Western, Lower Eastern and Coast regions. The opposition claimed the killings witnessed are meant to intimidate their supporters into accepting Jubilee's “undemocratic rule.” On Saturday, Raila said 15 of his supporters were killed by police following a fierce confrontation between security officers and supporters who had turned up to welcome him from an overseas trip on Friday. Police said only five people died. They were killed by mobs after attempting to break into private businesses to loot property, police said. Yesterday, a group of NASA women MPs claimed that 54 supporters have succumbed to gun wounds since the Friday fracas with police. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga said the state had committed genocide, and called on the ICC to intervene. She spoke in Kibera where they had gone to distribute foodstuff to supporters who had sustained injuries during their confrontations with police. NASA will tomorrow organise a major fundraiser to cater for funeral expenses of those killed. "The blood of supporters will not go in vain," Wanga said at Kamkunji grounds in Kibera yesterday. She was accompanied by Suba South MP Millie Odhiambo, woman representatives Florence Mutua (Busia), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori) and Christine Ombaka (Siaya). "There is emerging pattern of ethnic cleansing against members of Luo, Kisii, Luhya and Kamba communities, " said Millie. Related: Five looters 'killed by mobs' during NASA protests - police Click here for more political stories  