NASA wants the
country to revert to the draft Constitution presented during
the Bomas of Kenya Delegates Conference in 2005 to "ensure
inclusivity in the governance structure".  The opposition
argues the Bomas draft will give Kenyans an opportunity to come
up with a Constitution that will cater for the interests of all
Kenyans.  NASA co-principal
Musalia Mudavadi said they are holding consultative meetings on how
to push for a national referendum to amend the 2010 Constitution.  Read: NASA mulls constitution review as it launches People's Assembly In an interview with
Citizen TV, Mudavadi said the current governance structure lacks inclusivity, and that the
referendum would give Kenyans a chance to slot in the Bomas draft.  “We
believe the way to go is to look at the Bomas
draft, which was the actual document that people wanted," Mudavadi said.  “The
discussions may be a subject of a referendum and lack of inclusivity
in the current governance structure”.  The Bomas draft had
proposed for the positions of President, Deputy President, Prime
Minister and ministers. The Premier would be the head of Cabinet and
appointed by the President.  It had also slotted
in positions for two Deputy Prime Ministers and a maximum of 20 and a
minimum of 15 ministers.  The proposal by NASA
to amend the Constitution through a referendum has sprouted a fresh
political battle between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader
Raila Odinga.  Read: Don't let Nyanza counties take Sh50m for People's Assembly, says Duale Also read: Laikipia MCAs reject NASA's People Assembly The Supreme Court
recently upheld the reelection of President Uhuru in
the October 26 repeat presidential polls. He will be sworn in on Tuesday at Moi International Sports Centre - Kasarani.  Uhuru has trashed
the proposals by NASA, arguing that they were time-barred and that
focus should be on development in his second and final term. “We have been in
office for only five years and now they (NASA) are talking of
changing the Constitution. Kenyans will not feed on politics. Kenyans
want ugali on their table and services. These are the crucial things
as at now,” Uhuru said.  He spoke
during the groundbreaking ceremony of the Sh20 billion Thiba Dam project in
Kirinyaga county. He was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto
and Governor Anne Waiguru.  But Mudavadi said, “We will be meeting to elaborate on the current issues
that need to be addressed quickly so that we cannot have another
cycle of election coming before they are sorted out. Serious
recommendations will be made”.  The Bomas draft was
set aside from the time the chairman of the Constitution of Kenya
Review Commission Yash Pal Ghai was axed.  Analysts argued that
the referendum held 'was a betrayal to Kenyans since the Bomas
process was an opportune moment for Kenyans to structure a
Constitution that would cater for their interests'. Read: Court temporarily stops adoption of People's Assembly motions Click here for the latest political news    