First, there was a poor election carried out on August 8, and the illegalities and irregularities perpetrated made the Supreme Court nullify the presidential election. From the same Supreme Court, it was made clear that the subsequent repeat election must mirror conformity and strict adherence to the laid-down electoral laws, enabling statutes and the Constitution. That was the threshold set by the Supreme Court in its majority position. It was to be done in consonance with the existing laws, but Jubilee went on a spree to change the election laws to meet one obligation: That however badly the next election would be conducted, the election laws would protect those illegalities. That was the main objective of coming up with the electoral amendments. You look at how that October 26 election was carried out, it mirrored the changes they had already made, including the manual transmission and remission of results at the Bomas of Kenya. Raila Odinga withdrew because the race had a predetermined outcome. If the decision of 2013 was anything to go by, the withdrawal of a candidate triggers a new round of nominations. The IEBC chairman was duty bound to cancel that election, but because of intimidation by Jubilee and fellow commissioners, which he personally admitted publicly, he proceeded and carried out that useless election. The exit polls from CNN showed that 27 percent of people voted. Chebukati talked of 48 percent, then moved to 33 percent then later on settled on 38 percent. Chebukati’s confusion portrays him as the most inept chairman in the history of African electioneering. What Raila is saying is that the election having lacked legitimacy and a vote of no-confidence indicated by the exit poll, it is therefore incumbent upon the warring factions to come up with a temporary government as a transitional government awaiting a credible electoral process. Raila is proposing these camps be part of the transitional government in a bid to restore the cohesion and inclusion that have been wanting since the UhuruRuto duo came into government. What, then, we are saying is that as the transitional government works, it will also shepherd in the next round of elections that have the people’s confidence – all the people – and mirrors the dictates and tenets of our laws. A government can thereafter be formed be formed by the people for the people. The writer is the MP for Nyando