The President being sworn in today is a different President from any other that has ever being sworn in this country. There are many fundamental issues that NASA has raised. Though the questions might have been raised wrongly or in the wrong forums, they are valid and the President who will be sworn in must address them. The country is bleeding because of corruption. Kenyans want a ruthless President in the way he will compose the Cabinet. The threshold for those angling themselves for Cabinet Secretary positions has been set by Fred Matiang’i and that should be the minimum standard. Kenyans will not entertain any mediocrity. We need men and women who will deliver and carry the aspirations of the nation with the President. The President's handlers have failed and he must get new ones who are responsive to the needs, desires and aspirations of Kenyans. He should not go rewarding only his loyalists but should form an all-inclusive government. It is time for NASA to understand and agree that the constitutional competition for elections is over. We need them, as much as they are in the opposition, to criticize the government in a constructive manner within the law and in a manner that does not make Kenya a laughing stock. The brand name Kenya is a big name that needs to be contained, respected and enhanced for the development of this nation. As the President takes office, he has a big burden on his shoulders. As NASA looks at the President taking the oath of office, they should know that person is not a Jubilee President but the national President for all the 45 million Kenyans. We don't expect a President who will be out to humiliate, frustrate, or cajole the opposition. The President's legacy must better than that of his predecessors. He should leave a united nation and a developed country in terms of an improved GDP and development index. History will judge President Kenyatta II very harshly if he does not look at his legacy. He must remove the obstacles in the form of people who do not share his vision. I urge my President to ignore the succession politics and concentrate on development, cohesion, unity and legacy. If the Cabinet is appointed with 2022 in mind, then this country will again start being in an election mood. The writer is a political analyst.