    The government anticipated a damning report on
the October 26 repeat presidential election and moved to muzzle the civil
society, human rights crusaders at the Coast have said. The crusaders yesterday said the summoning of Muslims for
Human Rights, Katiba Institute and Inuka Kenya officials is an act of
intimidation meant to silence dissenting voices. The crusaders spoke during a press conference at the Kenya
National Commission on Human Rights offices in Mombasa. They
said they will not be intimidated by state machinery. “This harassment is for fear of us releasing this
report,” Muhuri CEO Hassan Abdille said. Muhuri and Haki Yetu partnered to observe the
October 26 presidential poll. A total of 702 observers from the two organisations
observed the polls at the Coast. According to the unreleased report, only 14 per
cent of Coast voters turned out to vote. Jubilee politicians and some IEBC officials had
put the voter turnout in the region at 28 per cent. The highest voter turnout was in Lamu county with
38 per cent. The lowest was in Taita Taveta county with a paltry eight per
cent turnout. “The poor turnout in the Coast was a vote of no
confidence in the IEBC’s ability or credibility to carry out a fair exercise
nationally, not just regionally,” the report reads. The report further also says with less than 10
per cent voting in most constituencies, "this could never be considered a genuine
democratic exercise". It recommends the disbandment of the IEBC
and an overhaul of its systems. “Many may point to Raila Odinga’s call to boycott
the poll as the single reason why the turnout was so poor, but Kenyans
themselves chose not to vote and an overall turnout of 38 per cent does
not give this government any legitimacy,” the report signed by Abdille and
Haki Yetu’s Father Gabriel Dolan says. Coast Civil Society Network chairman Patrick Ochieng
said the region will continue to stand by the truth. He said the timing of the summons is suspect and a
preemptive action to stop organisations from questioning the government.      