A hospital in Wajir is not releasing birth certificates of newborn babies until they complete immunisation.  Abakore Health Centre is carrying out a pilot project to create awareness on the importance of vaccination.  The six critical vaccines that must be administered to babies in the first nine months of life include polio, tetanus, measles, BCG, influenza and pneumonia. Rose Ajambo, a senior nurse at Abakore who mooted the plan, told the Star they realised many babies are not being vaccinated against preventable diseases. The community leads a a nomadic lifestyle . “Before rolling out the project, the few mothers who delivered in hospital rceieved birth notifications. They would return later for the certificate. Their babies only received one dose of vaccine,” Ajambo said. But now the hospital registers the newborn babies and applies for birth certificates on behalf of the mothers.  However, they will not be given the documents until they comply with immunisation rules, Ajambo said. “Some mothers demand the certificates, but we tell them the babies have a right to be vaccinated. Denying them that right is worse than denying mothers birth certificates,” Ajambo said. Wajir Heath executive Dahir Somaw said the county’s immunisation has increased from 23 per cent to 51 per cent last year because of the sensitisation campaigns. “This is very good progress, but we need to do more to ensure every baby is vaccinated,” Somaw said. Apart from holding the certificates, Abakore Health Centre is working with community health workers and traditional birth attendants to ensure expectant mothers deliver in hospitals.    Should expectant mothers deliver at home, they are take to hospital immediately. “We check if the mothers had been attending antenatal clinics. Many of them only attend two out of the required four visits,” Ajambo said. Traditional birth attendants are given a Sh500 incentive for every expectant mother they refer to the health centre. According to the 2014 demographic health survey, women in Wajir give birth two times more than their counterparts in other parts of the country. The survey indicates they are having four times the number of children as women in Kirinyaga – at an average of eight children – while those in Kirinyaga have an average of two. Somaw said there is need to introduce the plan in other health facilities in the county in a bid to provide quality care for mothers and newborns.