Kenya's population is expected to increase by 1,269,299 million by December, the National Bureau of Statistics has said. It said live births are estimated to be 4,649 per day in 2017, while 193 births are registered per hour. KNBS intends to conduct the next census in August 2019. The bureau said population density is 82.5 people per square kilometre (213.8/mi2) as of November 2017. Population density is
calculated as permanently settled population of Kenya divided by the
country's total area, which included land and water areas within
international boundaries and coastlines. The total area of Kenya is
580,370 km2 (224,082 mi2) according to the United Nations
Statistics Division. KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi gave this information during the African Statistics Day celebrations in Kajiado on Friday. The speech was read by the bureau's secretary Josiah Omusa. He said cartographic mapping of Kenya's population and housing for the census is ongoing. This, the director said, will also provide a frame to implement agricultural sample survey. "The bureau is set to roll out integrates survey of statistics that will provide requisite data for service industries necessary in the revision of national accounts," he said. Mwangi said revision and rebasing of national accounts, undertaken periodically by
the bureau, is important in factoring in emerging issues in the country’s
economy. Kajiado statistics officer Jackline Chepkorir said the bureau will for the first time carry out a cross-border survey on businesses along international borders. She said her office will work with the provincial administration to make
population census a success. She
said demand for statistics has grown tremendously in tandem with increased
public awareness, coupled with technological advancement. “In
discharging our mandate, KNBS endevours to improve the quality of statistics
produced within the national statistics system through collaborative efforts,” Chepkorir added. The
county statistics boss told the local people to provide all the necessary details
required by statisticians when they visit their homes because the same data
will help the government identify how best it will distribute resources. KNBS
is responsible for coordination, collection, analyses, generation and
dissemination of macroeconomics statistics on national accounts, monetary and
financial statistics, public finance, and transport, storage and
communications.          