Details have emerged of how at least 10 people were either hacked to death or shot dead mainly around Landhies Road by unknown people when NASA leader Raila Odinga fought his way to Nairobi’s downtown on Friday. Raila said 15 people were killed by the police. He said the bodies were taken to various morgues, including City Mortuary and Chiromo, and were all registered as unknown individuals, who died as a result of “mob injustice”. Yesterday, the Star visited City Mortuary and found 10 bodies — six had deep cuts, which seemed to have been inflicted with blunt objects, while three had bullet wounds. One had been shot in the leg, another in the stomach and a third in the chest. Six bodies were taken to the mortuary by police from the Kamukunji station.  On Friday, Landhies Road was the epicentre of the confrontation between the police, NASA supporters and people calling themselves the Nairobi Business Community.  Reporters who covered the battles witnessed a mob attack NASA supporters as police fired teargas. The group had clubs and machetes and at some point they were doing press-up on the road, before attacking NASA supporters.  Police later collected six bodies from various points along Landhies Road. All the six victims are men, who, based on physical appearances, are aged between 20 and 30. Another three were brought to the City Mortuary from Kayole, Makongeni and Shauri Moyo the same day. A police report in the occurrence book at City Mortuary indicates the six were victims of “mob injustice”.  They were brought to the mortuary at 8.55pm by officers from Kamukunji who identified them “as unknown”. At 9.31pm the same night, another body of a man said to be a victim of “mob injustice” was brought in by officers from the Shauri Moyo police station.  They did not indicate where the body had been collected, but noted in the mortuary records that the victim was killed by a mob. At 10.30pm Friday, another body was booked in at the morgue — again a victim of “mob injustice”. The body was brought in by officers from the Makongeni police station. The three police stations are close to one another — barely two kilometres apart. All are situated along Jogoo Road, where a bus was set ablaze and several businesses were looted in the orgy of violence that ensued.  The same night, the body of a man identified as 36-year-old Kennedy Owino was brought to the mortuary by officers from the Kilimani station.  The body had been collected from a house in Kibra and the cause of death was registered as “ulcers”.  Yesterday, the body was, however, grouped together with those of other victims of the city clashes after the family disputed the cause of death. A family member told the mortuary staff that the man was hit by a teargas canister at the back of his head and not “ulcers” as the police had indicated in their records. From the physical appearance, the six bodies brought in by Kamukunji police had visible bruises and swellings on the heads and bodies.  Yesterday, friends and family members of the deceased visited the City Mortuary to identify their loved ones.  Police reports filed from the Central police station, Makadara police division, seen by the Star and where the major incidents occurred, reported that there were no victims of police shootings. The reports blamed the deaths on mob injustice. But Raila accused the police of killing NASA supporters. He returned to the country from a 10-day tour of the US. Plans by his supporters and NASA leaders to receive the former PM at the JKIA were blocked by the police, who teargased them and tried to stop them from having a procession to the CBD. “The world has witnessed the use of unprecedented and unnecessary brutality by the Jubilee regime directed at a mass of humanity. I honour them for exercising their restraint against this brutality,” Raila said. “These supporters of NASA were unarmed civilians peacefully exercising their right to assembly. In a bid to bar citizens from exercising this right, the Jubilee regime used teargas, water cannon, armed militia and live bullets to disperse supporters of the National Super Alliance, in the process killing several and maiming many.” He said the action was a reckless, insensitive and primitive response to a crisis President Uhuru Kenyatta himself has created.