NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi has declined to confirm or deny whether or not secession talks, currently gaining currency on social media were part of the opposition strategy to push for change. He said he saw the secession conversation on social media, adding that it is an expression of desperation by a majority of Kenyans. “The social media has received a beating for being disruptive but on this issue, it plays a positive ventilation platform. Such despair is a warning, not rebellion,” he said. “We don’t have to criminalise this outpouring of anguish, but welcome it to create an inclusive polity. A country that descends to these feelings of exclusion is crying out for help before it drowns." Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi have called for self-rule for Coast region. They said they will start the process for secession. Mudavadi said conservative and protectionist governments’ business interests override the support for democracy. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta is deceptive about his remarks on dialogue. “He is a great actor. Whenever he’s cornered, he sounds contrite to buy into the desperation of the people. He then switches to grandstanding once the threat is over,” he said in an interview on Saturday. He said NASA leaders were ready to dialogue before last month's repeat presidential election, but its sincere pleas were turned into mimics of Nusu Mkate government. “He is now at it again, sounding contrite that he will have dialogue after he is installed. To tell us what? I suspect Uhuru wants just a media event with no substance," Mudavadi said.   Uhuru on Sunday met NASA leader Raila Odinga for the first time since the repeat presidential election at the All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi during the church’s centenary celebrations. The President said he is open to dialogue to unite the country. But Raila said there can be no unity without justice. Uhuru had earlier said he would only engage in dialogue after the repeat election. Mudavadi said there have been no attempts by foreign missions to broker negotiations between NASA and Jubilee.  “Most missions implored us to look the other way and allow the tragic election to go on. They hadn’t even learned from the embarrassment of their hasty attempts to legitimise the bogus August 8 election,” he said. Mudavadi said the African Union’s credibility is wanting, since it was drawn into the Kenyan ICC bogey.  “Look at the indecisiveness of its election observer mission which deliberately will issue pious noise after Uhuru is installed. Of what use will that be to Kenyans? They may as well stay away like the Commonwealth did to avoid the shame of legitimizing a sham,” he said.  