New research has established that increased use of antibiotics in food animals poses a threat to consumers. NRL researcher Chris Taitt said, “This is potentially due to agriculture and use of antibiotics. It further suggests the need for more effective public health policies and infection control measures.” He said the widespread use of tetracycline in livestock production might have contributed to resistance. The Kenya Veterinary Association will today hold a press briefing to address antibiotics resistance. The World Health Organization cautioned farmers and food industries to stop misusing antibiotics in healthy animals. WHO said researchers have encountered problems in developing new antibiotics and most bacteria which cause serious infections have developed a strong resistance to the antibiotics in the market. “The lack of effective antibiotics is a serious threat,” said Tedros Ghebreyesus, WHO director general. Approximately 80 per cent of the consumption of medically important antibiotics are ingested through farm animals. WHO further said healthy animals should only receive antibiotics to prevent disease diagnosed in other animals in the same flock or herd. Listed antibiotics should be used as a last-resort of treatment for multi-drug resistant infections in humans. US-based Naval Research Laboratory, in a joint project with the US Army Medical Research Directorate-Kenya, Kenya Medical Research Institute and the University of Washington, carried out the research. It showed Kenya has a high prevalence of antibiotic resistance. The researchers carried out tests on bacteria from intestinal tracts of healthy individuals and ailing patients in Kenya. The researchers collected 90 bacterial strains which were isolated from participants aged between four months to 54 years. Half of the subjects were diagnosed with acute diarrheal illness, the other half were healthy individuals. Samples were collected from eight Kenyan clinics, including district hospitals of Kisumu, Kisii, Migori and Homa Bay.  