The hearing of the Sh791 million NYS corruption case failed to proceed on Wednesday as anticipated. In the case, former Planning PS Peter Mangiti, former Director of NYS Nelson Githinji and 25 others are charged with theft of the public funds. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi put off the case after first prosecution witness Nixon Amuga Obora was said to be bereaved. Obora is former Chief Finance Officer, Ministry of Devolution and planning and also the whistleblower of the scam. Prosecution led by Senior state counsel Alloys Kemo informed the court that his witness has lost his wife and he could not able to attend the court proceedings. Defence lawyers led by Joseph Wagara did not oppose the adjournment of the case. The magistrate, however, directed the case to be heard on January 15, 2018. In the case, the former PS Mangiti, Githinji and Businessman Benson Gethi and Ms Josephine Kaburu Irungu, who is alleged to be the owner of four companies implicated in the scandal, were among the accused persons facing the theft of the millions at the NYS headquarters in Nairobi. During the last hearing, the Former Chief Finance Officer informed the court that Ministerial Tender Committee Minutes and a contract award letter that were supposed to be attached to NYS 25 payments vouchers were missing. He said that the 25 vouchers in question used by the ministry to pay the millions of shilling to three firms allegedly associated with business lady Josephine Kabura to supply soft and hardcore building materials to NYS never had the MTC or the contract award letter attached to them. “The minutes or the contract award letter must be attached to a voucher and it is a normal procedure in a ministry when preparing a voucher. the same is missing in this vouchers before the court,” said Obora. The money, according to the prosecution, was syphoned through fraudulent payments to six firms, whose registration details raised eyebrows and are apparently owned by three individuals. Read: Trial of 11 suspects charged with laundering NYS Sh791m begins According to the prosecution, one of the companies, Form Home Builders, was registered on June 10, five days after former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru wrote to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to inquire into its activities. It is also alleged that the property management firm belongs to 33-year-old Irungu, who owns two other companies, already implicated in the scandal. All the accused persons have denied the charge of conspiracy to steal Government money and engaging in organised crime. Procurement and finance directors are facing charges of breach of trust and falsification of transaction documents. The PS and the director are also charged with attempting to induce the senior deputy director-general in charge of administration, Adan Gedow Harakhe, “not to follow up the matter relating to the conspiracy” to steal money from the Government. Dr Githinji has denied they threatened their colleague with undisclosed consequences unless he dropped his pursuit of the matter. The offence relating to the conspiracy to steal Sh 695,400,000 was allegedly committed between May 27 and June 19 in Nairobi, the prosecution said. Each of them was granted bond of Sh20 million, with alternative cash bails of Sh3 million. This case is among three different criminal cases pending before Milimani Chief Magistrate court's involving NYS scam. More on this story: Central Bank of Kenya queries huge NYS payments