Three matches will be played today in the Football Kenya Federation National Super League. The three, however, do have a bearing on the relegation or promotion of teams to the top tier, SportPesa Premier League. At Kipchoge Keino Stadium, early pace setters and 15th placed GFE 105 welcome 9th placed Nakuru All Stars. Cash-strapped Isibania, coached by Dan Musta, entertain 8th placed Nairobi City Stars at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo while Modern Coast Rangers host Kenya Police at KPA Mbaraki Sports Club. The push for places in the SportPesa Premier League resume on Sunday as log leaders Ushuru play relegated Mosca at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Jericho at 11am. Administration Police host Palos at the same venue, seeking to avoid relegation. Palos coach Hesbon Nyabinge warned AP not to expect an easy game. “We have lost four games in a row but we want to end on a high by winning our games against AP and Isibania. We are not under pressure because we are not fighting relegation or promotion,” said Nyabinge. In the third match of the at Camp Toyoyo, third placed Wazito tackles Kibera Black Stars. Second-placed Vihiga United will battle it out with Bidco United at Thika Municipal Stadium a game which Vihiga coach Edward Manoah declared will determine their fate. “Our destiny is now in our own hands and the game against Bidco will determine our fate. It is upon the players to show character and win the game,” said Manoah shortly after his team overcame Palos 1-0 at Moi Stadium on Wednesday to reclaim the second position. Fourth-placed KCB travel to Nakuru’s Afraha Stadium to face off with St Joseph’s Youth while the game between Nairobi Stima and Talanta will be played at Sher Karuturi grounds. Vihiga captain Patrick Okullo leads the scorers’ chart with 17 goals—five of which were scored from the spot. Ushuru’s forward Benson Amianda and his KCB counterpart Simon Abuko have each netted 16 goals, four apiece from the spot. FC Talanta captain Eric Kapaito is third with 14 goals while Wazito’s Pistone Mutamba completes the top five with 13 goals to his name.  Ushuru leads the log with 75 points followed by Vihiga with 74. Wazito are third with 74 points, similar to Vihiga United but with an inferior goal difference, while KCB are fourth with 73 points. The four teams have a chance of promotion with two matches to go.