Najib Balala has downplayed Britain's travel advice that cited "possible demonstrations and clashes throughout the country" during Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration. The president-elect will take oath of office at Kasarani stadium from 10am on Tuesday. Read: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 Balala, who is Tourism Cabinet Secretary said they have been in communication with Britain and that "there is no travel advisory per se". The UK clarified on Friday that what it issued was not a travel advisory. Head of communication for Kenya and Somalia, Alice Simpson, noted no new travel advisories or warnings have been issued for Kenya. Simpson said they gave a factual update on the swearing-in as there may be significant disruption to nearby roads. More on this: Uhuru inauguration will cost Sh300m, no amount wasted - Joseph Kinyua  MS Nautica Cruise Ship that called at the Port of Mombasa with 642 passengers and 300 crew members, November 25, 2017. /ERNEST CORNEL Uhuru's swearing-in will be parallel to NASA's rally or 'inauguration' of Raila Odinga as "President of Peoples Republic of Kenya" at Uhuru Park. Police, politicians and officials including head of public service Joseph Kinyua have asked the National Super to shelve its plans. Britain said: "Political tensions are high and demonstrations and clashes are possible throughout the country, particularly in the western region. You should exercise caution and, where possible, avoid traveling around areas where demonstrations may take place." But Balala said: "The only thing they were cognizant of is the fact that there will be fracas during the swearing-in [because of the] parallel rallies in Kasarani and Uhuru Park." The minister asked the Opposition to reschedule its activities because "police are on high alert". He spoke on Saturday at the Port of Mombasa when MS Nautica Cruise Ship called with 642 passengers and 300 crew members. The CS bashed the Opposition saying "you cannot compete with legitimate process of the judiciary which recognises Uhuru Kenyatta as the president". NASA says the presidency is illegitimate and is pushing for a six-month caretaker government before a fresh presidential election is held. But Balala noted IEBC declared Uhuru winner of the repeat October 26 election so "this is final". "Therefore, whatever NASA will do is illegal," he said. The National Intelligence Service, however, has recommended that NASA leaders be arrested and charged with treason if Raila is sworn in. Read: Raila risks jail for treason if he takes presidential oath Also read: Block Raila's 'weird' swearing-in at all costs, Kamama tells security chiefs  Some of the 642 tourists who travelled in MS Nautica Cruise Ship after their arrival in Mombasa, November 25, 2017. /ERNEST CORNEL Balala is fearful the country's "national pride" will be dented if the Kasarani ceremony is overshadowed by other activities. "More than 20 heads of state are coming. It is a national symbol. Democracy [must take] effect," he said. He added: "Total international arrivals for January to September 2017, by air and sea, closed at 723,174 compared to 657,438 in 2016, illustrating a growth of 10 per cent." Arrival at the JKIA during the period under review, the CS said, grew by 11.1 per cent to 655,569 from 589,958 in 2016. "Moi International Airport in Mombasa received 66,699 visitors compared to 65,600 in 2016, a 1.7 per cent growth," he said. More on this: Is Sh300 million Uhuru swearing-in necessary in troubled Kenya? Click here for the latest political news