The Nairobi International Financial Centre became fourth in Africa to feature on the prestigious Global Financial Centre Index this year, joining the already established Johannesburg, Casablanca and Mauritius. This year’s index, released late September, shows that the yet to be established Nairobi International Financial Centre (NIFC) was assessed 61 times in the past 24 months, which is way below the required minimum of 515 times. Even so, Kenya will take longer to join the main GFCI list if Treasury’s comment on the progress of the NIFC is anything to go by. Addressing the press last week, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said although the state has identified space in Upper Hill where the hub will be hosted, it will take a bit longer for collaborating institutions like the International Arbitration Court to be set up. ‘’The NIFC secretariat, which operates from Treasury is working with other regulatory bodies to have the centre in place as soon as possible. However, much remains to be done, with the government expected to come up with rules on issues such as tax treatment of companies and deals within the finance hub,’’ said Rotich. In late July this year, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the NIFC Bill into law, paving way for a legal framework to facilitate and support the development of an efficient and globally competitive financial services sector in Kenya. The Act also established the Nairobi Financial Centre Authority whose mandate is to establish and maintain an efficient operating framework in order to attract and retain firms. Other functions includes to develop and recommend strategies and incentives in collaboration with relevant agencies in order to attract firms to the financial hub. The authority is yet to be established, more than three month since the bill was signed into law. Kenya has been planning to set up the hub since 2008, and was overtaken by Morocco, which set up its Casablanca Financial City in 2011 and joined the Global Financial Centre Index in 2014. The ball is now in Kenya’s court to consolidate at least 500 points by July next year to be featured in the list.      