The only institution empowered by the law to hear and determine a presidential election under our Constitution is the Supreme Court. A number of High Court judges have dismissed petitions challenging the various aspects of the presidential elections on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. The import of those dismissals is that any matters challenging presidential elections must be heard and determined by the Supreme Court. There have been attempts by the Executive to use strong-arm tactics to intimidate the Judiciary into pandering to its whims. So far, however, there has been no evidence that the Judiciary is giving in. The rule of law must be upheld and that requires an independent Judiciary. The rule of law requires that the Judiciary have jurisdiction hear and determine cases, even those against the government, to ensure that they are lawful and constitutional. The courts have restated time and again that the exercise of public power must comply with the Constitution, which is the supreme law. The doctrine of legality behoves the Legislature and the Executive in principle to exercise no power and perform no function beyond that conferred on them by law.  The continuous and constant criticism of the Judiciary, especially every time it holds the Executive’s exercise of power to be unconstitutional, is part of an active campaign of intimidation against the Judiciary. Needless to say, an independent Judiciary requires that individual judges are independent in the exercise of their powers, and that the Judiciary as a whole is independent. The Judiciary’s sphere of authority is protected from wrongful interference by the other two branches of government.  The individual judges must be protected from the threat of reprisals so fear does not influence their decisions. The Chief Justice has constantly reaffirmed the Judiciary’s commitment to the doctrine of separation of powers. The 2010 Constitution vests legislative autonomy in the Legislature, executive autonomy in the Executive, and judicial authority in the courts.  This separation of powers must be respected if we are to continue enjoying the protection of our individual liberties from a rogue government that has absolutely no respect for the rule of law and individual rights. In many countries, judges are subjected to harassment and intimidation when they interfere with unlawful executive actions. The intimidation comes from paramilitary groups, militia, opposition parties and government functionaries.  In 2000 the intimidation of judges and lawyers was so bad in Guatemala that a number of them had to flee the country.  The reprisals suffered by jurists for carrying out their professional duties included murder, disappearances, prosecution, detention, physical abuse, verbal threats and professional obstructions. In 2001, an Indonesian Supreme Court judge was murdered after finding the President’s son guilty of corruption. Our judges must be strong and be prepared to pay the ultimate price. They must not cower in the face of threats and intimidation.  They are the final bulwark against oppression and aggression. If the Judiciary collapses, the entire Constitution will become a beautiful piece of paper with no force or effect at all. The Supreme Court must sit and determine cases filed before it with fidelity to the rule of law and the Constitution. Kenyans must be encouraged to stand with the Judiciary without fear or favour. Advocate of the
High Court and a past president of the East Africa Law Society      