Before the White man colonised Africa, Kenya and other African states lived as tiny independent communities, which were too weak to fend off colonial invasions and were, therefore, easily conquered one after the other. Colonialists realised that if they were to govern African communities as separate states, they would be too small to be economically viable. They therefore put several African communities into states, which later fought for their Independence. At Independence founding fathers, such as Julius Nyerere of Tanganyika, Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, Sékou Touré of Guinea Conakry, Abdel Nasser of Egypt, Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya, Haile Selassie of Ethiopia and others, decided that for political, defense and economic purposes, they would best preserve colonial boundaries and get independence — not as single African communities that they were before colonialism.They understood that if they reverted to their pre-colonial weakness as single community states, they would be too weak to survive, socially, economically, politically and militarily, though in service of imperial interests. After Independence, Mwambao or the Coast region of Kenya wanted to continue under the rule of Sultan of Zanzibar, while the Somalis of THE Northern Frontier District of Kenya wanted to secede from Kenya and re-join the greater Italian Somalia. Their efforts were extinguished by a war that was fought by Kenya and Ethiopia for several years.  Now, under the constitutional right to self-determination, the coastal counties of Kilifi and Mombasa — and other persons — are agitating for secession and independence from Kenya. They argue that devolution has failed, and as the country is today, no person from the small communities can become President, or enjoy equal development with the big communities. But while marginalisation of small communities cannot be denied, small communities are not the only ones that are marginalised or the only groups whose members cannot become President in this country. Poor people, who are domiciled in all Kenyan groups small or big, are Kenya’s biggest community that cannot hope to become President or get resources equal to those of the rich. How then should poor Kenyans end their economic and political marginalisation? Should they also seek secession and independence from Kenya? No Kenyans should be children of lesser gods or children of the back while others are children of the stomach. If Kenyans are equal, how shall we solve their collective problems without weakening or killing them through ethnic divisions and violent secession? Julius Nyerere, the late President of Tanzania, warned that one reason African countries are poor is because they are small and weak compared to bigger countries such as Russia, the US — which fought a civil war to preserve its union — and China. Nyerere wondered how through secession, Africa could be agitating for balkanisation into tiny ethnic states, when the rest of the world is seeking greater unity in military unions such as NATO, economic blocs like the European Union and others. In fact, Nyerere believed Africa needs not less but more unity. He was, therefore, totally opposed to secession. One wonders how counties such as Kilifi and Mombasa are talking about secession, when Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda are forming and strengthening the East Africa Community, where one can travel without a visa — using the East African passport, trade freely in a common market, make laws in one Parliament and probably unite as a country in future. With social democracy, we can end marginalisation without secession. We can ensure every Kenyan has a chance to become President by putting political merit before negative ethnicity that puts some below others, and disallows voting for the best, irrespective of ethnic origins. Right now, secession appeals as a solution to marginalisation and impoverishment because negative ethnicity tells us we are marginalised only by people of other communities — and only by excluding ourselves from other communities can we end our own exclusion. Negative ethnicity also popularises secession because it refuses to acknowledge that marginalisation of any community can be ended by all its victims, who include the poor, by coming together to end poverty and discrimination.  We should forget secession because it cannot solve our problems.  As diplomats said, secession is not the cure to our problems because it antagonises us, pits us against one another in a war.  Only the unity and sharing of resources by all Kenyans can end poverty, marginalisation, discrimination and war with one another.        