In recent days Kenyans have been treated to the theatre of the absurd. Officers in the National Police Service have raided private residences in upmarket areas of Malindi, Muthaiga and Westlands on the pretext of searching for illegal arms and terrorists. In all cases they have come up empty-handed, and in one instance they fatally shot an innocent man. Bunty Shah, the heir to Bobmil Industries Ltd, had his life snuffed out by a single police sniper’s bullet that went straight through his heart. The covert police operation to “flush out terrorists” was immediately called off, but not before confrontation with another team from Parklands police station that intruded on them, oblivious to the operation of the ‘special police unit’. Mercifully no fire was exchanged. The question on everyone’s mind is, are the police being misused by powerful persons to carry out personal vendettas and or eliminate other persons and if so, why? In the Malindi case they broke into the house of a wealthy, well-connected Italian couple under the mistaken belief it belonged to one Jimmy Wanjigi. They even claim to have found a cache of firearms at the residence. Several weeks later there has been no prosecution. The truth is that it was a case of mistaken identity and no arms were recovered. The Italian couple expressed their indignation by filing complaint(s) with their Embassy in Nairobi, their government and with the Pope, causing a diplomatic uproar. They demanded an official apology from the Kenya government and it is stated that a senior official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was dispatched to Malindi and delivered the same. Fast-forward to the raid on Wanjigi’s Muthaiga residence, once the lounge of the Jubilee principals when they wanted to hold covert meetings. It is at this residence that the Jubilee coalition was formed prior to their acrimonious falling out over a mega tender. Upon failing to find Wanjigi, who is rumoured to have been watching the raid on CCTV from the safety of a bomb-secure underground bunker, the police proceeded to descend on the property with axes and other crude weapons, causing serious damage to private property. Once again they claimed to have found a cache of arms, all of which the Wanjigis claim are licensed. Mercifully no member of the family was harmed. The police are yet to prefer any charges and Wanjigi is rumoured to have fled the country in fear of his life. The raid on Shah’s house turned tragic when the owner fired a volley at apparent would-be criminals who had trespassed onto his property. A police sniper took him out instantly with one expert shot to the heart. For the first time in the history of Kenya, the Inspector General of Police apologised for the murder or killing of an innocent citizen. The grapevine and some family members, however, claim it was an assassination. The hunt for the “so-called terrorists” was immediately called off after his death! The burning question is why? Shah is rumoured to have been privy to some dark secrets from the privacy of his office. It is said he witnessed and filmed some sensitive high-security matters concerning the recent election. When requested to surrender the film, he claimed to have already disposed of them; a single act that led to his elimination. Kenyans are becoming increasingly apprehensive that we may be returning to the dark days of dictatorship when disappearance and assassinations were the order of the day. Recent events eerily remind us of the disappearance and subsequent execution of men like Kungu wa Karumba, JM Kariuki and Robert Ouko. Others who died by snipers’ bullets are Pio Gama Pinto and Tom Mboya. Who will bell the cat?