There has been public outcry over the NHIF’s move to limit outpatient visits to four annually. It’s shocking to see how we Kenyans quickly forget all the good things the Fund has achieved over the years. We forget that as at 2010 no member of the Fund could access outpatient services. This was only realised with the revision of contributions in 2013, again amidst public outcry. There were shouts of reforms, which, from my understanding, have been taking shape. With a health system that has many challenges, from lack of sufficient health professionals to lack of adequate medicines, the truth is that despite the condemnation, the NHIF is providing an almost comfortable benefit to its members. The simple picture is this, whether you contribute Sh500 or Sh1,700 we are all entitled to the same benefits. This I understand is what social health insurance is all about, where we all contribute to one pot and eat from the same equally. Social health insurance is just but one of the mechanisms the government is using to achieve universal health coverage. The aim is that by 2030 all Kenyans would have access to basic essential health services. So what was in the four visits? They covered basic comprehensive outpatient services. Regardless of the number of visits you have guaranteed access to imaging services, renal dialysis, cancer treatment, surgery, evacuation services and inpatient care. What you were not told is that with your contribution now the vulnerable and poor amongst us can enjoy the same services. These are funded by the government through a health insurance subsidy programme. The NHIF is mandated to protect our contributions while purchasing services from hospitals on our behalf. Purchasing services and making them accessible are two different things. When the NHIF began to provide outpatient care, it was mandatory that for you to access services you had to be capitated to a hospital for six months without the option to change. Again, there was discomfort for the over 6.5 million members and about 14 million declared dependants. This meant that ‘Wanjiku’ had to choose a facility which she could not change until six months were over. This was changed with a new model, which the Fund’s CEO referred to as fixed fee-for-service. With this arrangement we were all happy that now irrespective of where we would be, as members we could go to facilities of our choice. It also meant that facilities would have more room to compete through improved quality. Wanjiku can walk away from a hospital she feels doesn’t provide the care needed. The so-called visits cannot measure up to the services you are entitled to. Social health insurance does not in any way imply maximum access to benefits needed. It simply means that we have access to the essential package of health as guided by the Ministry of Health. That is why with a contribution of Sh500, or even Sh1,700, the Fund can now pay for a surgery worth Sh500,000 and you can access first line cancer treatment of up to six sessions or two weekly dialysis sessions. The debate should not only be on how to make the Fund better, but how to influence the whole health system. Social media can influence the escalating doctors’ fees. They can influence the quality of care in the government and county hospitals. They can influence policy on the mushrooming private clinics that rob government’s investments in the public health system. It is foolhardy to criticise and condemn the Fund wholly over an announcement that was made with the best intentions. Although the directive to limit Kenyans to four outpatient visits was cancelled by Health CS Cleopa Mailu and the status quo stands, the question remains, how best can we influence our healthcare system?