Tuesday
is a very special day for all Kenyans and it is detestable for the National
Super Alliance to purport to hold a parallel event on the same day.  It
is clear on face value that the said meeting to be held in Nairobi when the
swearing of President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President-elect William
Ruto is taking place is meant to embarrass the State and the people of Kenya. While
it is their constitutional right to hold the said prayers, it is also very
important to take heed of what the police have advised. Tuesday will be a
security intensity day, when the attention not only of Kenyans but also the
entire world will be on our nation, therefore it will be morally wrong for the
opposition to plan other events for the day purposely meant to provoke the police,
who may respond by using force. Read: NASA says notice for Tuesday memorial given, Koome 'unaware' Also read: Go to Jacaranda at your own risk, Koome warns, says NASA lying NASA
should consider shelving their meeting to a later date when the police are less
occupied with such weighty matters. And in any case, both the President and the
Deputy President have invited the opposition to join them during their
swearing-in at Kasarani Stadium. It
is time our leaders put aside their political differences and embrace peace
and unity. What happened in the two concluded elections in which, unfortunately,
NASA withdrew in the last one, was just but competition – and in any
competition there must be a winner. In
their retreat that took place in Machakos county on Saturday, I have seen that NASA
has asked its members of Parliament not to participate in the vetting of
various nominees that might be forwarded to Parliament by the President and
they also resolved that they will not recognize Uhuru and Ruto as President and
Deputy President, respectively. As long as you do not have the instruments of
power, you have not taken the oath of office in the presence of the Chief
Justice, then all those other things they are purporting are just
nonsense.  Another
thing that the opposition needs to take note of is that they are in Parliament
courtesy of their people. Raila should reconsider his team of advisers; of late
they are doing a disservice to him, from telling him to withdraw from the presidential
race to now lying to him that he is the President. Read: Raila risks jail for treason if he takes presidential oath The writer is the MP for
Baringo North and a lawyer  Click here for the latest political news  