WAS NASA leader Raila Odinga testing the waters to see the following he commands nationwide in boycotting the presidential rerun before creating the People's Assembly? Raila and his NASA brigade this week, announcing the formation of the National Resistance Movement campaign, looked elated in applauding 62 per cent of Kenyans who heeded their poll boycott call. Word has it that NASA’s determination to know the crowd it commands in the country would have been dealt a blow had a huge per cent of voters listened to President Uhuru Kenyatta and turned out to vote. The low voter turnout has even become a battle between Jubilee and NASA – each claiming it enjoys mammoth support. TALK of double standards among politicians. A top- ranking politician within Jubilee who harbours extreme bile for NASA and is always quick to react to its misdeeds has been extending his anger to journalists too. Word has it that the politician has been profiling journalists along tribal lines. It is said the journalists' surnames have been betraying them whenever they approach the politician for comment. Our mole has told Corridors that the politician labels reporters from various media houses as NASA crusaders when their surnames indicate they come from opposition regions. It is said at one point the politician confronted one journalist from a NASA region and warned the messenger “not to reason like other reporters from opposition areas”.  A number of IEBC top leaders were yesterday heard complaining about a certain WhatsApp group being administrated by Kenyans living abroad. The group, according to a Corridor mole who is also a member, hit at top members of the Commission using unprintable words on why they allegedly conducted a sham exercise last week. Anyone who tries to leave the group is promptly re-added and the attack continues. Former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba has become the latest casualty of the active WhatsApp group. NYERI Governor Wahome Gakuru’s push to have a 65-year-old nominee to head the Youth, Gender and Social Services docket seems to have been punctured. The nominee was missing during the swearing-in ceremony of the county's Executive members. Before and after her approval and support by the majority of MCAs, youths staged protests on social media platforms, claiming that they had been sidelined and misrepresented. KENYANS are closely following Cambridge Analytica’s activities in the country after former US First Lady Hillary Clinton said that the company was being investigated for data weaponisation in Britain. Many reports have been shared online and the most interesting piece is that Cambridge hires some former military personnel into its ranks, which might threaten the sovereignty of certain nations they operate in.        