Week-long activities have been planned ahead of Eldoret Bishop Cornelius Korir’s burial on Saturday. A fundraiser will be held tomorrow at the Sacred Heart Cathedral, Eldoret, where he will be buried. The gravesite has already been identified. Korir was found dead on Monday in his house on Elgon View estate by helpers who had gone to prepare him for a flight to Nairobi for treatment. More than 100,000 people are expected in Eldoret between November 10 and 11 to attend special prayers, a night vigil and funeral service at the Eldoret Sports Club before the burial. Former US Ambassador Michael Ranneberger and former Cabinet minister Henry Kosgey are among those who have mourned Korir. They said he will be greatly remembered for the role he played in reconciliation during the 2007-08 post-election violence. “Bishop Korir courageously spoke truth to power. He worked tirelessly to promote peace and reconciliation. At various times, he stood between armed mobs in order to stop bloodshed. He housed the displaced at his cathedral during the 2007-08 violence,” Ranneberger said. He said Korir leaves a living legacy in all the lives he saved, in all of the lives he helped, and in all he did to promote a more peaceful and just nation. Kosgey said Korir asked him to rely on God during the case he faced at the ICC. “While many others were telling me to look for the best lawyers in the world, Korir told me to [trust] God and even gave me a Bible verse to read,” he said. Ranneberger said he was honoured and privileged by the friendship Korir so generously extended to him. He served in Kenya during the 2007-08 PEV. Ranneberger said Bishop Korir was and will remain in the hearts of Kenyans as a hero and patriot, as well as a man of profound faith. “His sincere humility was an example to everyone. The insights which he shared with me helped shape my response to the post-election crisis of 2007-08. I was inspired by the leadership he exerted on behalf of ordinary Kenyans,” the envoy said. The Catholic Church has warned of fraudsters collecting money from the public in Eldoret allegedly to assist in the funeral expenses. Fr Fredrick Njoroge from the Eldoret Diocese on Saturday said they have not authorised any such collections. He asked the public to ignore the conmen, who might have spread to other areas. “No one should use the name of the bishop or the church for such illegal activities,” Njoroge said. He said friends and worshippers will give their contributions directly on Tuesday in church. “We are very encouraged by the wish of many friends and other Kenyans to help the church in one way or another and we will work with the government and everyone else to give Bishop Korir a good send off,” Njoroge said.  On Thursday, Archbishop Anthony Muheria of Nyeri presided over a special mass for Korir in Eldoret.  The government has said it will meet part of the funeral costs.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will be among the mourners.