Has Jubilee taken its charm offensive against the opposition all the way to the doorstep of NASA deputy leader Kalonzo Musyoka? Social media has been abuzz with reports that President Uhuru Kenyatta could have come to the aid of the former vice president’s deep financial crisis, following the lengthy hospitalisation of his wife Pauline. The reports claimed that the president donated Sh38 million to defray Pauline’s hospitals bill in Germany, where she is recuperating. With Kenyans’ wit and creativity unrivalled, others said opposition leader Raila Odinga sent a paltry Sh100,000. The claims opened an avalanche of political views and criticism as well, with NASA supporters trolling Jubilee diehards for taking advantage of Kalonzo’s plight to push a political agenda. *****  A political heavyweight from Western Kenya who recently deserted the opposition bandwagon to dine with Jubilee is a worried man. The slippery politician’s dream for a Cabinet post might have catastrophically ran into headwinds after his colleagues from the region apparently endorsed someone else to take up the slot when President Uhuru Kenyatta constitutes his Cabinet. It is said that the President asked the group to select one of them to take up a Cabinet Secretary position when he expands his Cabinet to 22 members. Seeing himself as the favourite, the former lawmaker had been lobbying for the opportunity, but his colleagues shocked him with news that it would be better for someone else to get the top job. *****  Perhaps the biggest agenda of the Fred Matiang’i-led Interior Ministry is to spend massive resources for intimidation purposes. The ministry runs one of the largest allocations, of course unaudited, but its expenditures are rather covert. Many Kenyans are worried that the ministry’s resources are being misused unjustifiably. The ministry (using armed police) found it easy to kill hundreds of cattle that had invaded private ranches in Laikipia. Couldn’t it have been more logical if the ministry spent the money to dig boreholes and ensure maximum supply of water, and offer a lasting solution to the communities? Actually, it might have been cheaper in the long run than shooting and intimidating the poor cattle.  *****  Police officers are demanding their allowances from some of their clients. While the clients are supposed to deposit the money with the National Police Service as per the tradition, senior officers receive the money instead and then refuse to pay junior officers. As a result, the police have not received their allowances from the IAAF and other top assignments. Even those doing local jobs such as providing security during elections and camping in the dangerous Boni Forest have not received their funds. 