President Uhuru Kenyatta's thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the horrific attack in Egypt. Militants killed more than 235 people at a mosque in North Sinai on Friday, detonating a bomb and gunning down fleeing worshipers in the deadliest such attack in Egypt's modern history, state media and witnesses said. Read: Death toll in Egypt mosque attack rises to 235, state declares three days of mourning "We pray that Egypt may be consoled and that it may be granted the courage to bear this loss, and to bring the perpetrators of this vile act to justice," Uhuru said in a statement on Saturday. "Egypt can be sure that we stand with her. Bitter experience has taught us that in the fight against terror, and against the extremists who have chosen such atrocious means, all of us who love freedom are allies against a common enemy." Al Shabaab militants have attacked many parts of Kenya, killing civilians and police officers, in retaliation for the contribution f troops to AMISOM. The President said Kenya will "gladly give" any help it can. "God bless and preserve Egypt and her people." No group immediately claimed responsibility for the Egypt assault, but since 2013 Egyptian security forces have battled an Islamic State affiliate in the mainly desert region, and militants have killed hundreds of police and soldiers.  The exterior of Al Rawdah mosque is seen in Bir Al-Abed, Egypt November 24, 2017 in this still taken from video. /REUTERS State media showed images of bloodied victims and bodies covered in blankets inside the Al Rawdah mosque in Bir al-Abed, west of El Arish, the main city in North Sinai. Worshipers were finishing Friday prayers at the mosque when a bomb exploded, witnesses said. Around 40 gunmen set up positions outside the mosque with jeeps and opened fire from different directions as people tried to escape. "Four groups of armed men attacked the worshipers inside the mosque after Friday noon prayers. Two groups were firing at ambulances to deter them, said Mohamed, a witness. The public prosecutors' office said in a statement 235 people had been killed and 109 more wounded. Hours after the attack, Egypt's military launched air strikes on targets in mountainous areas around Bir al-Abed, destroying vehicles and hideouts associated with the attack, the army said without giving numbers of militants killed. "The armed forces and the police will avenge our martyrs and restore security and stability with the utmost force," Egypt's President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said in a televised address. "What is happening is an attempt to stop us from our efforts in the fight against terrorism, to destroy our efforts to stop the terrible criminal plan that aims to destroy what is left of our region." Striking at a mosque would be a shift in tactics for the Sinai militants, who have usually attacked troops and police and Christian churches. Arabiya news channel and some local sources said some of the worshipers were Sufis, whom groups such as Islamic State consider targets because they revere saints and shrines, which for jihadists is tantamount to idolatry. The jihadists have also attacked local tribes and their militias for working with the army and police, branding them traitors. Islamic State earlier this year posted a video of the beheading of two Sufis in northern Sinai, accusing them of practicing "sorcery". The country has declared three days of mourning. Click here for the latest political news