Former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo has revealed his own tally of the August 8 election showed that Elisha Odhiambo won the race. However, he maintained that his petition is grounded on the irregularities in the poll process which he argued affected the result. Midiwo revealed this during a cross examination in the case challenging Odhiambo's win at the Siaya High court on Wednesday. The ex-legislator said the process was not free and fair hence did not reflect the wishes of the constituents. Earlier, Midiwo had said he didn't know who won the Gem elections before he was put to task to admit Odhiambo's victory on August 8. Midiwo alleged the process was marred by violence, intimidation, corruption adding that these were the reasons he lost the contest. Odhiambo's lawyers vehemently dismissed the allegations saying Midiwo was the one who used violence and intimidated voters. They questioned why Midiwo never reported the incidents to IEBC immediately he learned about them. "There were faults in 98 polling stations but managed to identify tangible mistakes in only 19 polling stations," Midiwo said. He also took issue with the Gem returning officer Martin Omollo saying he was in office illegally. "The law requires that a returning officer be gazetted before assuming office. Martin Omollo followed the due process," Midiwo's lawyer Willis Otieno said. But the former Gem MP insisted that the returning officer was supposed to be a clerk during the contested election. "The appointments letter in my possession indicate that Martin Omollo was supposed to be an assistant administrative officer of Alego Usonga constituency office." He alleged that that Gem returning officer was not impartial as he is Odhiambo's friend. "Despite complaining to the IEBC, the official was not transferred," Midiwo said. Midiwo added that he even has evidence that Omollo was also doing business with the county government. But Midiwo's allegations were dismissed as far-fetched. Also read: My 'Otada' nickname means 'adorable, progressive leader' - Midiwo Read: IEBC declared MP Odhiambo winner without numbers, Midiwo says in petition      