Residents say the City Hall is unprepared to prevent or deal with flash floods expected with heavy rains in the next few days. Drains are clogged and buildings on riparian land obstruct the natural flow of water and cause flooding. The Kenya Meteorological Department has announced the rains would begin this weekend. Many parts of the capital have experienced flooding whenever it rains and the residents are worried there will be more floods. They say they have not seen any activity to prevent the floods. “The drainage remains clogged. I think it will be worse this time,” Janet Aliwa, a Buru Buru resident, said yesterday. Umoja I resident Nina Wambui said most parts of the estate were flooded by rains last week after a trench was blocked. “As a mother, I get worried about the diseases my family, especially children, could contract from these floods,” she added. Efforts to reach Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe were unsuccessful, as calls went unanswered. But Kenya Urban Roads Authority Engineer John Mwatu said residents are also to blame for the poor drainage systems. “People are used to dumping garbage in the trenches and when rains come, the trenches are blocked. Some even overflow to residential estates,” he said.  Mwatu said the banned plastic bags were mostly a problem when it came to blockage of the trenches. He hopes the ban will help minimise waste getting into the drainage systems. Mwatu urged Nairobians to be responsible when disposing of their waste, especially when at home. Roads in most parts of the city have been flooded in the past by heavy rains. The Evans Kidero administration set aside a Sh50 million emergency recovery fund for clearing blocked drains to avert flooding. Some drains were cleared, but when heavy rains occurred early last year, flooding continued in some parts of the city. Mwatu said they have tried to modify the drainage trenches beside the roads. The trenches are covered to ensure pedestrian safety, but have small opening for rainwater. City Hall is again accused of failing to unclog drainage systems to allow free flow of water. In March 2015, 12 people died and several others were injured in Fuata Nyayo slums after a perimeter wall collapsed on them during heavy rains. The wall had a weak foundation. In April last year, four people died after a wall collapsed on them along Lenana Road during a downpour. In 2015, the worst-hit flood areas included Highrise Estate, South C, Loresho, Maziwa-Ziimmerman on Kamiti Road, the River Bank area along Baba Dogo-Outer Ring road, the Lavington-Chalbi Drive, Garden Estate, Thome and Roysambu. Others were Kahawa West, Donholm, the Mbagathi-Langata Road Roundabout, Nairobi West, Ruai, Utawala, Mukuru slums and Kibera slums. It is very dangerous when trenches get blocked and overflow because people might easily get water-borne diseases, Mwatu said. They could even die if they are swept away by rushing water,” he warned. “We do not want a repetition of the past when floods swept away people and vehicles. I urge people to avoid dumping garbage in the trenches If they want free flow of water in the drainage system.”