President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday met for the first time since the presidential re-run that was boycotted by the opposition alliance. The two political nemeses, together with Chief Justice David Maraga, whose ruling on the August 8 presidential election precipitated the fresh polls, were among the hundreds of Kenyans who attended the first centenary celebrations of All Saints’ Cathedral. The service was presided over by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the symbolic head of the worldwide Anglican communion, Justin Welby, and Archbishop of the Anglican Church Jackson ole Sapit. Though only the President-elect was given time to address the congregation, Raila appeared jovial from his body language. He greeted Uhuru and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta after he received a book of the cathedral’s history at the pulpit. The former Prime Minister was seated two rows behind Uhuru, who, together with the First Lady and Chief Justice Maraga, were in the front row. Uhuru, in his short address to the faithful, kept off politics and instead praised the church for the contributions it has made to the well being of the nation. “We are gathered here today as Kenyans to celebrate the great work the Anglican Church has done in Kenya. We celebrate what the church has done in health, education and in spreading the word of God and peace,” he said. Uhuru said the church’s history is similar to that of Kenya, adding that it has walked with the country from the time it was a protectorate, to date. Raila boycotted the October 26 repeat election after his ‘irreducible minimums’ demands to make changes to the IEBC to guarantee free and fair polls were not met. Uhuru was declared winner in the controversial polls which saw 38 per cent of voters turning out to cast their ballot. The All Saints’ Cathedral sanctuary was full to capacity as the faithful thronged to mark the church’s 100th anniversary. Yesterday was the culmination of the celebrations which began in February. Tents were erected in the compound and TV screens set up to enable those who could not get space inside the church to follow the proceedings.