Business owners are seeking compensation from NASA for property destroyed last Friday when opposition leader Raila Odinga returned from the US. Those worst affected include matatu operators, chicken sellers, cart pushers and shop owners along Jogoo Road. A 42-seater PSV that belonged to Forward Travellers was set ablaze during the chaos. It was alleged that NASA supporters burnt the matatu because it belonged to the Nairobi governor. Shops and restaurants were looted and vehicles at a garage destroyed. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai condemned the destruction. Forward Travellers chairman George Mugo condemned the burning of vehicles and said the sacco will push for compensation. Matatu owners present said they are ready to defend their property and dared NASA supporters to repeat the destruction. Manasseh Mbugua, whose restaurant was destroyed, said he incurred huge losses. He said it was wrong to target private property during political events. “I don’t know where to begin. I have lost a large amount of money. It is disappointing that fellow Kenyans can commit such actions,” Mbugua said. On Friday, police spokesman George Kinoti asked everyone who lost property during the mayhem to report to the nearest police station. Speaking in Nyeri during the burial of former Governor Wahome Gakuru, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko condemned the attacks and said the government will not allow them to happen again. Matatu drivers and touts condemned the attacks, saying their livelihood was being destroyed. “We don’t understand why they had to burn our matatu yet it didn’t pose any harm to them,” David Mulama (not real name) a tout, said. “We don’t know who will compensate us, but we must be compensated or we will take revenge,” Mulama said. Mama Omondi, a trader at City Stadium lost around 15 chickens. Yesterday morning, more matatus were burnt after residents woke up to find several bodies in Baba Dogo on Outer Ring Road. They were killed by “unknown attackers”.