Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has been appointed Wiper chairman. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka appointment him to replace former Kitui Senator David Musila, who defected to Jubilee. “Wiper members met on Monday. The main agenda was to fill the vacant positions. Prof Kibwana was appointed the chairman and former Senator Judith Sijeny the secretary general,” Wiper’s organising secretary Robert Mbui told the Star. “Both will hold the positions in an acting capacity until we hold our annual general meeting,” he added. Sijeny replaced former secretary general, Hassan Omar. The former Mombasa Senator quit Wiper for Jubilee. He criticised Kalonzo’s leadership and NASA for not backing his bid for Mombasa governor. Omar failed to oust ODM deputy leader Hassan Joho, who won with a landslide in the August 8 poll. He has petitioned Joho’s win, despite coming a distant third. Jubilee’s Suleiman Shahbal was second. Musila quit Wiper to run as an independent for the Kitui governor’s seat. He lost to Narc leader Charity Ngilu. He accused Kalonzo of favouring former Governor Julius Malombe.Mbui said during the Wiper meeting at an Athi River hotel, Machakos, the lawmakers affirmed their commitment to NASA activities. This follows media reports that questioned the party’s solidarity as the leaders were reported to be less active than their colleagues in ODM, ANC and Ford Kenya. “We resolved that all our members must be in all activities of NRM so that it does not look like an ODM affair. We are preparing for 2022 and the slot for the Presidency is ours,” Mbui said. Meanwhile, NASA yesterday submitted names of its nominees to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for approval. Mbui was fronted to deputise Minority leader John Mbadi, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed is to take up the Whip position and is be deputised by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa. Kalonzo’s right-hand man and Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze who served as Minority leader was left out. NASA is yet to submit names of its members to various parliamentary committees including chairing two powerful watchdog committees - Public Investment and Public Accounts. However, Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC is fronting Vihiga Senator George Khaniri to take up a commissioner’s slot in the Parliamentary Service Commission while Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi to chair Public Accounts Committee. Bunyasi will square it out with Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi who has also expressed interest in PAC chairmanship, although their four principals Raila Odinga, Moses Wetang’ula, Kalonzo and Mudavadi will make the final decision. Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya is fronting Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka for Public Investment Committee chair. “I’m interested in PIC chairman because of my seniority and experience in Parliament. If you look at the House right now, you find that there is either one or three members with the experience I have. I served as an assistant minister and in various parliamentary committees,” Onyonka told Star on phone. He asked his principals to be fair to every party in sharing leadership slots curb disagreements and any possible divisions. Onyonka is also eying the commissioner position in the Parliamentary Service Commission. Wetang’ula’s aide told Star that Kisumu Town West Olago Aluoch has expressed interest in the Justice and Legal Affairs vice chair. The aide said NASA principals are expected to hold a meeting this week to agree members on members to represent the coalition in various committees. Click here for the latest political news