The current political shenanigans in the country are leading us to a dead end (cul-de-sac).  Nationalists who speak of a united Kenya can stop it from disintegrating into the stirred whirlpool of self-destruction. Second, arrogance and jingoistic beliefs drive the politics. It is not the elected leaders who matter but the relational spirit of Kenyans. Third, what matters is a spirit of togetherness, enterprise and exchange of goods within communities. Lastly, there is a mood of clashing ideologies in this autopoietic system. While we should be striving for the common good of everyone, the political divide seems to drive our senses to negativity. Nationalistic values: The Europe of 1830 faced similar challenges affecting Kenya now.The 1830 painting by Eugène Delacroix gives a glimpse of the problem. The 1789 French Revolution was a mass-led revolution. During the French Revolution, the Church in Europe was heavily battered, accused of being passive and silent on the injustices from the Versailles palace. Queen Marie Antoinette was the epitome of the rot in France then. She led a lavish life and when asked to help the hungry her reply was, “If they have no bread, let them eat cake”. Completely out of touch with the reality outside Versailles.  The mass revolt did not spare the clergy from the guillotine. In his painting, Delacroix tries to soften up the general stances of radicalism. He shows his ambivalent attitude to revolutionary violence as detrimental to good governance. For him, a fight for liberty did not necessarily mean violence but espoused a political equality meant to empower everyone economically. He thought a hungry stomach will not eat politics. Arrogance and the negative belief: Politicians forget very fast the gains of democracy. Bishop David Gitari, speaking at Kenyatta University in 1978 summed up the challenges poor Kenyans were experiencing. He said, “There are some sections of the Church which have stressed the utter hopelessness of this world and called upon the individual to concentrate solely on preparing his soul for the world to come. By ignoring the need for social reform, religion is divorced from the mainstream of human life. Christianity is not meant just for the soul; it is for the whole person… The Church must seek to transform both individual lives and the social situation that bring to many people anguish of spirit and cruel bondage.”  The 1989 World Bank-led reforms for democracy, good governance and sovereignty captivated the nation. More actors entered the narrow tunnel of opportunities. The Church led the civil society groups in demanding for reforms which would address challenges. The different forums of democracy born in the 1990s culminated in the changes of the 2010 Constitution. A devolved system of governance would help deal with poverty, bad governance and irresponsible leadership at county level. However, current democracy needs reforms where the winner should not take it all. We need to re-evaluate this stand across the whole continent. A good democracy allows negotiations, ceding the hardliner stance to accommodate varied opinions on national issues. Today in opposition tomorrow in government. Today’s government is tomorrow’s opposition. Lastly, we need a self-regulating governance system devoid of chest- thumping and self-glorification. Huberto Maturama and Francesco Varela ( 1980 ) said a good autopoietic system is self-correcting, collects views and develops a good line of communication across the state. The Labour Party under Tony Blair worked towards this system and was elected four times. Good leaders are those who are not full of themselves (condescending) and less transient. Blair started conducting research inside his own party to remove sheer arrogance. The once opposition party had to transmogrify itself from an eternal opposition to government. They had to enter union sacree (sacred union) with the Conservatives.  Blair saw why the head should not always rule over the heart. He remembered the wisdom of Mario Cuomo, the former New York Governor, when in 1998 he said, “You govern in prose”. It means governance of a people is not a one-attitude approach but a collection of many views to arrive at one good decision. Decisions that work for the common good of everyone are God’s voice. In the 10th and 11th Kenya Parliaments, Fr Francesco Pierli led an experiment between Tangaza University and MPs. They met every Wednesday for reflections on national issues. They invited the public, CSOs and diplomats to “come and see” what they tried to do for Kenya as MPs. In that group there was no opposition nor government but MPs from both sides committed to a better Kenya.  Elections should not divide us. The winner should be Kenya, not Jubilee or NASA.    