A child is often held up as the ultimate sign of the success of a marriage. After enduring years without a child, many a couple divorce under pressure from the society. But one man knew even before marriage that his future wife had fertility problems. And yet, he still married her. Even a miscarriage when she finally got pregnant was not enough to deter him. Now he has four children with her, and he can hardly believe his change of fortunes. Francis and Alice Nyundo got married in 2006 in Takaye Msoloni, Malindi subcounty. Alice was suffering from fibroids, a common ailment in women, and further complications of pelvic inflamatory disease, which affected her long before the marriage. Five years after the wedding, insults from neighbours were piling up, as was pressure from relatives for Nyundo to get a second wife so he could finally get a child. However, the couple rode the storm. With help from renowned herbalist Dr Isaac Magige, they overcame their fertility problems and began to bear children. It was enough to inspire a public celebration, which doubled up as a housewarming party and a chance to reconcile with the society that taunted them. Dr Magige was the chief guest at the party, which brought together more than 1,000 residents on August 19. He received a hero’s welcome as the gathering received him with song and dance Nyundo told the gathering that during courtship, he was questioned whether he would accept to marry a woman who does not bear children. “My mother-in-law asked if I could live with a ‘sick’ wife. I married her anyway,” he said. To date, Nyundo cannot believe he is called a father. He is still haunted by the past, when relatives and neighbours insulted him and his wife if they tried to send other people’s children to run their errands.   SHUNNED WITCH DOCTORS Nyundo’s testimony left guests in awe. In the traditional Mijikenda society, a woman who does not bear children to her husband is divorced. Alternatively the husband could marry a second wife to get children, but the barren woman would live a lonely life, particularly when living in an extended family. However, Nyundo persevered. Despite some people urging him to divorce his wife, he maintained his love and prayed to God to give them children. Some people told him to seek intervention from witch doctors, saying it was the only way his wife would conceive. He rejected the idea. Today, he has three daughters and one son, who have a gap of between one and two years, and his ambition is to have as many children as possible. When neighbours taunted the couple, Nyundo told his wife to be patient as “children come from God and one day he would send her her own”. “In 2010, my wife became pregnant but she got a miscarriage. People said our wedding was not complete and that we were supposed to do some rituals for her to be able to conceive,” he said. Nyundo said he embarked on a long, tiresome and costly mission of seeking medical attention to treat his wife. The couple began a journey to Nairobi to seek medical attention. All this time, they were not aware the wife’s problem was fibroids and pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). While in Nairobi, Nyundo’s elder brother took him to Dr Magige of Makini Herbal Clinic. “Dr Magige charged us Sh50,000 and promised he would use all means to heal my wife,” Nyundo said. At that time, Nyundo had not even paid dowry to his mother-in-law. He confessed to have told her not to expect dowry until her daughter was healed, as most finances were used in the medication. The trips to Nairobi were many and expensive. At one point, he had to borrow fare from his pastor to get back home.   BREAKTHROUGH AT LAST In 2011, Nyundo got his firstborn, a girl he named Millicent Kadzo. That was the beginning of his success in marriage, and since he had yearned for long to get children, seven years later, he now boasts of being a father of four. To his surprise, the people who used to insult him and his wife are now complaining that they do not sleep. “The people are now saying that my wife does not sleep because the gap between the children born is too little. I will not sleep. I am still going to get more children,” he said. Nyundo and his wife said they consider the doctor as part of the family now, having made a big contribution to them getting children. “Dr Magige is our father, this is his home, and these children we have are his grandchildren,” Nyundo said. Magige was given the keys to officially open the couple’s brand new modern house, to bless it before the couple starts living there. After seeing that the house did not have electricity, he pledged to help them get it and urged the couple to buy a TV. The wife could not hide her joy for being called a mother. She thanked God for enabling her to get children. “Magige is our father. We have gone through hard times, I cannot mention them all, but with the four children I have, I thank God. Had it not been for the Lord and Dr Magige, we wouldn’t be here today celebrating,” Alice said. She said he almost divorced her husband because of what the society was saying about her. “Now I can comfortably send my children. Previously if I sent somebody’s child, I would be told to give birth to my own child,” Alice said. Asked about why they organised the party, she said it was a promise made by her husband to her that they would hold a big party if they got children. Their party acted as a uniting factor between them and the society, which previously perceived them differently for not having children.   ‘DON’T DIVORCE, GET TESTED’ Dr Magige said he was happy to see the excited family and their guests. “It shows the love of people. I am not new here, I am a father and a grandfather of the home,’’ he said. The doctor praised the couple for their hard work, saying in his first visit, he found a home that was not proper with traditional structures, which symbolised poverty. “Now the home is developed, your faith is what made you what you are today, not Isaac Magige,” he said. The doctor said men agitate for divorces when the couple doesn’t get children. He said it is not fair to single out women for blame. “Men contribute to the increased cases of divorce in our society. They do not accept the reality and always lay the blame on the woman,” Dr Magige said. His advice to men with such problems is to go with their wives to be tested, instead of rushing to divorce them. “Nyundo took courage to go. Others fear being victims, as if it’s a death sentence. Drugs are there to help both women and men get children once tested,” the doctor said. This is not the first revelation of a couple confessing to have been healed by Dr Magige. Early this year in his Mombasa office, there were others who came with their children after suffering different complications that had made it impossible for them to give birth.