Serena Williams' stunning wedding dress has finally been revealed in a series of photos taken during and after her Thursday-night ceremony with Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian. Photos of the event taken exclusively by Vogue magazine show Williams looking radiant in the flowing, lacy white Alexander McQueen dress, which was crafted by head designer Sarah Burton.  Williams then swapped that for a shorter, though no less beautiful, Versace number for the first dance, which saw the newlywed couple dancing to "Tale As Old As Time" - a tune in line with the wedding's theme, Disney's Beauty and the Beast. And on Friday, the tennis star showcased the stamina that's made her a 23-time Grand Slam Champ, partying for a second day straight. Serena's wedding to Ohanian took place at the Contemporary Arts Center of New Orleans, with the pair surrounded by a bevy of friends, families and A-listers for the Beauty and the Beast-themed bash. "Alexis really wanted to do New Orleans," Serena told Vogue in an exclusive interview. "It's his favorite city besides Brooklyn. It's got a heavy European influence; it's fun and has amazing food. He just loves the vibe." She added that the decision to hold it at the Arts Center was 'a decision we both made. Painting and art is something I'm really passionate about, so it just felt natural and different to do it at a contemporary art museum.'  As well as the couple's two-month-old daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr, and Venus Williams - who wore a custom Galia Lahav bridesmaid's dress - was a who's who of the biggest names in American pop culture. The Williams's older sister, Isha Price, was also spotted in a gorgeous green number. Sadly, one family member who was there only in spirit was Ohanian's mother, who passed away nine years ago. The couple acknowledged her by holding the event on November 16 - her birthday. "It is her birthday, and we wanted her to be represented at the wedding," Serena said. "Obviously, we wish that she could be here for this, but choosing her birthday as our wedding date was a nice way of making sure she's still involved and made us feel more connected to her on our day." The proposal - which came 18 months after the pair met by chance at a cafe in Rome - was just as thoughtfully organised. "I came home one day to find my bags already packed for me, and I had absolutely no idea where I was going until I got on the flight," Serena told Vogue.  "Alexis flew me out to Rome, back to the exact table where we'd met. We were both really nervous but also excited to take this huge step. It was such a beautiful moment."  Of course, a perfect wedding needs a perfect dress - so Serena went to Alexander McQueen, knowing she wouldn't be let down. "I flew to London to meet with [head designer Sarah Burton] and ended up falling in love with the ball gown silhouette, which is completely the opposite of what I ever thought I would choose for myself," she said. "I loved the idea of doing a really spectacular ball gown, and it has turned out to be such an incredibly special piece." The bridesmaids looked almost as beautiful as the bride in Galia Lahav dresses. Val Vogt, Serena's best friend, explained: "[Serena] talked to all of us and just kind of let us have creative control as to what dress fit our personality. And then she approved it, of course!" Vogt ultimately carried Serena's Yorkshire terrier, Chip, down the aisle. He was appropriately fitted out in his own top-hat-and-tux combo. As Serena walked the final dress - a princess gown with Disney-appropriate cape, with $3.5 million of diamond jewelry to accompany it - down the aisle, she was watched by a celebrity-packed audience.  Kim Kardashian, Ciara, Beyoncé - and Jay-Z, who flew in to pay his respects but then had to immediately fly out to North Carolina for a concert - and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour were all spotted sitting on sofas facing the aisle.  Read more on Daily Mail.