Rock quarrying is one of the common but most dangerous industries to work in relative to other industries globally. The workers are exposed to various hazards because of the high-risk activities involved.  Kenya has witnessed various quarry accidents and health complaints associated with quarrying activities, which have not been addressed by the county or national governments.  In Mutonga alone, tens of people have lost their lives in the quarry. The hazardous nature of quarrying activities at the Mutonga quarry in Meru county came to light when activities had to be stopped by the then area’s district commissioner. He reacted to fears associated with landslides that had occurred in the area within the quarry site as a results of heavy rains.  However, the inherent occupational, health and safety hazards were overlooked due to inadequate information on their magnitude.  POOR WORKING CONDITIONS According to Nema, quarrying in Kenya suffers from a number of constraints that call for special attention.  These include lack of basic knowledge on safety precautions, poor working conditions, low socioeconomic status, lack of clear quarrying legislation and environmental degradation. Some workers get maimed, others become chronically ill, while others die.  These occupational health and safety hazards are more pronounced in manual quarry operations, as is the case at the Mutonga quarry.  Quarrying activities in Mutonga, as well as many other quarries around the country, are hazardous to the quarry workers, and the magnitude of occupational, health and safety hazards in Kenya is not known.  For Mutonga quarry workers, they are often visiting hospitals to seek healthcare for breathing and other problems. Some of the hazards they face include heavy loads, being hit by tools, exposure to dust and falling of rock blocks, pain or discomfort in the nose, throat, sinuses, back, shoulder and neck.  ECONOMIC IMPACT The quarrying activities pose a threat not only to public health but also to economic growth at local, national and global levels.  Many studies have concluded that respondents had occupational, health and safety problems associated with quarrying activities.  The government should ensure that all places carrying out mining activities are well researched on.  It should also communicate to the public on the laws and regulations to be adhered to in order to enhance safety of human beings and the environment.