NASA has moved its rally to Kibra's Olympic grounds after police sealed off Uhuru Park. Police cordoned off the park in Nairobi's CBD saying the opposition's rally would disrupt KSCE examinations and other activities. Many police officers patrolled and a spot check by The Star did not find the people at the park. After landing at the JKIA from the US earlier on Friday, Opposition leader Raila Odinga was escorted out by hundreds of his supporters. But there were troubles between his supporters and police officers whose goal was to prevent chaos. Opposition leaders who knew about the blockade at the park diverted their convoys to Kibra.  Uhuru Park grounds where NASA was to hold a rally after NASA leader Raila Odinga's return from the US, November 17, 2017. /JULIUS OTIENO The people gathered to show support for Raila despite a ban on demonstrations in the town centres of Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa. But some turned rowdy and burned a vehicle along Jogoo road, forcing police to fire tear gas and use water cannon trucks. It was not clear why the protesters, who then ran way from police, set the lorry on fire. Witnesses said they tried their best to prevent the total destruction of the vehicle that belonged to a member of the Kamba community. "[The owner] is from that area," a witness said, while pointing out a location. "NASA supporters set it ablaze without reason." Another said: "They burnt the lorry thinking it belonged to police, given its colour, but we have managed to stop them and put out the fire." The supporters also hurled stones at police and other vehicles, threw up burning barricades and damaged other property. Four Forward Travellers buses were burned after the drivers and passengers were chased away. The windows of some of the vehcles were broken and items that were inside stolen. Reports indicated a bus belonging to Outreach Sacco was also burned.  A screen grab of a bus that was burned as NASA supporters welcome Raila Odinga back from the US, November 17, 2017.  A bus that was burned as NASA supporters welcomed their leader Raila Odinga back from the US, November 17, 2017. /MAUREEN KINYANJUI Before the repeat election, the Opposition leader made a passionate appeal for his supporters to reject violence and ensure property is not destroyed during anti-IEBC demonstrations. Raila said it was wrong to light bonfires on roads and disrupt public transport and other essential services. But some of his supporters have not heeded the call.  A police truck accompanies NASA leaders and their supporters from Nyayo Stadium to Jogoo Road, November 17, 2017. /COURTESY There was a confrontation at the airport on Thursday between NASA leaders and police. Journalists had been denied entry for a press conference by leaders who had been preparing to welcome the veteran opposition leader. Police blocked the main gate and ordered them to reverse saying no politician would be allowed into the facility. More on this: [VIDEO] Tear gas, gunshots as NASA supporters wait for Raila outside JKIA Also read: Police block JKIA ahead of NASA presser, say politicians not allowe