The Garissa county government is committed to lowering the number of maternal deaths in the region. It has among the highest rates in the country. According to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014, Garissa has been ranked among the 15 worst performing counties with 646 deaths per every 100,000 live births. According to the new health CEC Ahmednadhir Omar, this can be achieved through maximum cooperation among development partners, the national and the county governments. Omar was speaking in Dadaab during the opening ceremony of a fully furnished maternity wing at the subcounty hospital yesterday. The construction was funded by Unicef and UKAID.  The fully furnished maternity wing can handle 25 deliveries a day. It has an incubator, a photo therapy machine, an ultra-sound machine, X-ray machines, specialised beds and a full operating theater. Omar said that one of the causes of deaths among expectant mothers is the long distance they have to cover in order to access health care services. “We are determined to bring down these figures by first establishing comprehensive maternity services in our rural health centers. This is where most of these deaths occur,” Omar said. Garissa county has a level 5 referral hospital, eight subcounty hospitals, 59 dispensaries and health centres. Health care has improved under devolved government. Omar said the county will strive to make sure all the eight subcounty hospitals have modern maternity wings.  He also said that apart from providing health facilities, the county must motivate skilled health workers to retain them. Workers who are not motivated leave in search of better working conditions elsewhere. “We can have the best-equipped facilities, but without a motivated workforce all our efforts to improve healthcare services will be in vain,” Omar said. Mothers have been urged to give birth in health facilities where they can receive specialised care. This would greatly help the county to reduce high child mortality rates.