Allegations of a scramble for Sh3.8 billion meant for CSR in connection to the Itare dam construction have arisen. The project in Kuresoi North constituency in Nakuru county is by the Italian government and will cost Sh38 billion. Ten per cent of this cost has been assigned to corporate social responsibility. Rift Valley Water Services Board is mandated with overseeing the construction. The Star has learned that unnamed politicians have been meeting locals, asking them to challenge the works until they pocket a lion's share of the Sh3.8 billion meant for community projects. Committees drawn from Tinet and Kiptororo wards were to share the amount but politicians are said to be demanding large amounts of cash from the board. "Politicians want to pocket the rest of the billions and give us Sh100 million for projects. They are now using locals to cause unrest until they get the money, " said a committee member who sought anonymity. "Some people are coaching IDPs, telling them they should be resettled using the amount but politicians are also eying it." Residents led by Moses Kiplangat also complained about the death of two cows and an acute water shortage. They have issued an ultimatum to the Italian contractor for an alternative source of water for people and their animals. While handing their petition to the contractor, the residents said failure to address their concerns will force them to stop the construction. Related: Stop playing politics with Itare Dam project, Kuresoi residents tell Raila  Kuresoi residents during demos in support of the Itare Dam project on Monday, November 7.  /AMOS KERICH False claims? But a source at the board said the allegation that the two cows died as a result of construction work is false. "They reported to us that their cow miscarried after it was scared by the blasting of quarry but our investigation established it died many days before." The source said even those claiming they do not have water and that they need compensation are not genuine, but agents of "a known bigwig". Some residents told the press the contractor fenced off their water point so they have to buy 20-litre amounts at Sh100. But this is untrue. Kiptororo MCA Kibet Kurgat admitted an acute water shortage in the region since the works started. But the source at the board said it is not as serious as has been said and that the contractor will supply water by building tanks or distributing the commodity. Chiefs and DCCs visited the site when the quarry needed blasting to ask IDPs to move and return alter for their safety. But some of them insist they will not move until they are fully compensated. They also want compensation for crops and property; some who arrived later set up tents.  Construction at the Sh38 million Itare dam site. /AMOS KERICH Uhuru and Ruto asked to intervene The has already paid people who were found on the land before work started but it has been said the Sh3.8 billion will be disbursed soon.  The Star has also established that the contractor who feared for the safety of the 1,278 IDPs, camping a few metres from the site, visited the Kuresoi deputy county commissioner's office and expressed concerns about the disruption of work. Local leaders who approve the project want President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to intervene and cool down politicians. Former councilor David Sitienei noted the 624 acres were set aside in 1997. "We want Ruto to ensure this project continues with no interruption," Sitienei said. More on this: Ignore 'illiterate' Raila's opposition to Sh38b Itare Dam, Ruto tells Kuresoi Also read: Rutto takes tea with Itare Dam IDPs, names camps after UhuRuto