The government will from next year start distributing text books directly to public schools in a deliberate move aimed at locking out
cartels and middlemen who collude with school heads to siphon billions of shillings.  This means schools will no longer receive capitation
funds for buying textbooks from January next year at the onset of free day
secondary school education and the new curriculum. The new distribution policy is likely to open a row between the government and book distributors who will now stand to lose billions of shillings in the lucrative venture. Read: Review text book distribution policy, Matiang’i directs KICD The government has to date spent up to Sh300 billion since
the inception of Free Primary Education in 2003 and the actualization of subsidized
secondary education programme in 2008. Education CS Fred Matiang’i however expressed
concern that many schools were yet to attain the 1:1 learner to textbook ratio
thus denying students important instructional material. He said his ministry will do everything within
its power to ensure cartels involved in the racket are crushed. The CS dared distributors to take him to court saying he is ready to take them on. “I don’t think my conscience will allow me to
live a lie and to see the kind of theft that has gone on in the text book
racketeering in public schools system. We will fight it with everything we
have,” Matiang’i said. He spoke on Friday during the closing ceremony
of the 2017 Annual Luncheon and Private Schools Expo at Moi Educational Centre
in Nairobi. It however remains to be seen if the policy will be implemented considering Matiang'i first mentioned it in April last year. Read: War over texts pits CS against traders, union Under the free primary education, every pupil receives Sh761
per year towards the purchase of books translating to about Sh7.5 billion for a
population of about 9.9 pupils. Another Sh11 billion is used for purchasing books for
secondary school students where each of the 2.3 million students is allocated
Sh4,792 annually.  However, an audit report submitted to Matiang’i in April last year by
the Kenya Publishers Association (KPA) revealed that the government could be
losing up to Sh13 billion annually to books frauds. Read: Matiang’i says middlemen drive prices of textbooks up by 25% The report said the government allocates up to Sh18.5 billion
every year but only Sh5 billion is used in the actual purchase of books. The audit also faulted the government for failing to step up inspection
to seal loopholes that allow cartels to pocket billions of shillings by working in conduits with school heads to flout procurement procedures.   The report also put school heads at fault for failing to
verify the quality of books delivered. The government provides a list of approved text books and publishers at the beginning of every year but some school heads
collude with distributors to supply unapproved and poor quality books at
inflated prices. Read: Matiang’i says EACC will streamline textbook issuing Click here for the latest education news        