Two Kisii returning officers have admitted errors in the tallied results of the August 8 governor election. However, Sidney Namulungu (county) and Moses Daula of Bobasi constituency said told a court on Monday that the errors did not affect the final outcome. Namulungu, while testifying in a petition challenging Governor James Ongwae's election, said they where human. He told Justice Hellen Omondi that the margin between Ongwae and Chris Obure was too wide. "There were transposition errors in forms 37As but they did not affect the final outcome of the governor race," he said. Read: Result alterations in 196 centres helped Ongwae win – petitioner Also read: Judge declines to disqualify herself from Ongwae petition The poll official, on cross examination by petitioner Joel Makori's lawyers Omwanza Omabati and Edward Begi, said there was replication of votes in Bobasi and Bomachoge Borabu constituencies. Namulungu said candidates scored similar votes in some polling stations in the two constituencies. On allegations of inflation of the number of registered voters in Bobasi to favour Ongwae, Daula denied the claim saying the poll was transparent and fair. The RO objected to reference to other forms other than 37A, form 37B and 37 C because they are the ones used in governor elections. "There is no need to refer to forms 34 B because it was not used in the governor election." He was, however, put to task by Omwanza to tell the court which register he used. This followed the argument that there were two separate registers.  But Daula disputed the claims saying there was only one. Makori has listed Namulungu, IEBC, Ongwae, DG Joash Maangi and Naftal Obwocha as the respondents in that order. Namulungu said that after the petitioner's failure to attach form 37A in his petition, he could not tell whether the transposition errors affected the outcome. Daula said errors occurred during transposition of results in 141 polling centres. The case continues. Click here for the latest political news