Today the people of Nyeri bury Governor Wahome Gakuru, barely three months after taking office. This is a leader many residents thought they had struck gold in by electing as the county boss. Gakuru won the race by 282, 598 votes — 72 per cent of the vote. Clearly, the numbers show locals had faith in his leadership, having garnered 126,398 votes in 2013, coming second to Nderitu Gachagua, who won by 137, 005. Tired of political fights and circles in the last term, which saw the county perform dismally in development, the people were happy that they had elected a manager, not a politician. It is under Gakuru — a tried and tested intelligent and smart economist — they believed the county who would invest more in projects and improve their welfare. The 51-year-old Gakuru had vast experience from various institutions. He held a doctorate in Public Administration and Policy from Arizona State University in the US, where he graduated in 2004. In 2001, he attained his Master’s degree in Business Administration from Willamette University US. He had a similar qualification from the University of Nairobi, where he studied for his Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration between 1988-91. He served as a director in the Vision 2030 and the National Economic and Social Council secretariats. He also worked in senior management of the National Aids Control Council as the head of Policy and Strategy Development between 2005-06. Painfully, the hopes residents had in Gakuru were dashed in a horrific car accident at Kabati, along the Nyeri-Nairobi highway, on November 7. “I was deeply shocked and saddened by the sudden and untimely death of our governor. This unbearable loss has robbed Nyeri of a jewel in its crown. I have personally lost a dear friend, a fabulous boss, a cheerful comrade and courageous compatriot,” Mutahi Kahiga, the new and fourth Nyeri governor, said after his swearing in.Many share these remarks.The late governor has been eulogised as a visionary, devoted, tireless and focussed leader, who was determined and committed to serve. And to demonstrate how committed he was, Gakuru visited Nyeri County Referral Hospital on August 23 as soon as he was sworn in. Disgusted by the state of the hospital, he demanded a comprehensive report on the status of all health centres in the county. He had already started initiating mega projects, among them a Sh4 billion Cancer Centre, which was to be built at the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology and, as he told Citizen TV a day before the tragic accident, he was waiting for the national government to release county allocations to get started. He was the brains behind the revamping of the Nanyuki railway. He led eight Mt Kenya governors in this plan. Each county was to contribute Sh100 million to jumpstart the Sh25 billion project. Being the visionary he was, the project would at a later date be extended to Isiolo and finally to the Kenya-Ethiopia border. He was involved in the ground breaking of the two mega dam projects in Kieni East and Kieni West subcounties. The dams, when completed, would help to ensure Kieni, being a food basket is water secure. The dams would also be used to generate hydropower for the expansive constituency. The other projects he had a keen eye on were Othaya Level IV Hospital and Karatina open-air market. Nyeri is an agricultural county and he had started to focus on value addition coffee, tea and other food crops in the county to benefit farmers. The previous administration was marred by wrangles between the executive and the county assembly, which crippled service delivery to the people. But Gakuru was a symbol of unity. Speaker John Kaguchia said Gakuru was preparing a goat eating for the MCAs to ensure they worked itogether with the executive. And like Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi, the people of Nyeri hope Governor Kahiga will work tirelessly to deliver the vision Gakuru had. Fare thee well Governor Gakuru.