The Standard Gauge Railway has announced new schedules for travellers using the train from the two cities ahead of the busy Christmas season. The arrival and departure timings for both the express and inter-county trains services leaving both Nairobi and Mombasa terminuses are set to change starting December 1. According to Kenya Railways, the change on the train schedule is attributable to increasing feedback from commuters on timing. "Since inception of the Madaraka Express, we have made notable changes mostly informed by our stakeholders’ feedback . Therefore, this timetable revision is a further improvement towards an efficient service. As the festive season checks in, we expect even more passengers to board the ultra-modern trains as they transverse the country,” Kenya Railways managing director, Atanas Maina said. According to the revised timetable published by the rail transporter the Inter County service from Nairobi to Mombasa via Athi River, Emali, Kibwezi, Mtito Andei, Voi, Miasenyi, Mariakani will be departing Nairobi at 8:00 AM every morning and is expected to arrive in Mombasa by 1:55 PM The Nairobi bound line will be leaving the Mombasa station at 7:15 AM to arrive in Nairobi at 1:05 pm after making seven stops along the 472 kilometre line. The express service train will be departing Nairobi at 2:20pm headed to Mombasa while the Mombasa one will be leaving the coastal city at 3:15 PM. Both trains will be shuttling at average speeds of up to 120 Kilometres per hour. Change of the train timings follows the introduction of the express service last month that saw an afternoon trip introduced on the with a train leaving both Mombasa and Nairobi at 3:30 pm. This time has since been revised to 2:20 pm Latest statistics from the rail transport show that approximately 337,000 passengers have used the train since its launch. While at this, the corporation intends to introduce the full commercial operations of the Freight service in 2018. This is expected to lower the cost of cargo transport by up to 35 per cent between the port of Mombasa and the Nairobi Inland Container Deport.    