A court in Machakos yesterday dismissed corruption charges against five county officials, saying the prosecution failed to prove the the allegations. Machakos chief of staff Mwengi Mutuse, former county secretary Francis Mwaka and three others had been accused of flouting procurement rules in the purchase of 15 Subaru cars for senior county staff in 2013. Machakos resident magistrate Abdulqadir Lorot said no public funds were lost in the purchase. He observed that the said vehicles were in good condition and were still being used four years later. Lorot also said there was no evidence that the accused received kickbacks for the tender. Prosecution had said the tender had been single-sourced. But the magistrate agreed with defense lawyers that single-sourcing was due to the urgency of the matter given that the county was still a newly established unit of government. Mutuse told the court that the county urgently needed the vehicles to deliver services to wananchi. The prosecution, in a last minute twist, sought to have the case withdrawn. Lorot rejected the application. It had also been opposed by the accused. They argued that withdrawal would lead to wastage of public resources given that the matter had been heard in court for over two years. Through lawyer Bernard Mung'ata, the accused also said they were apprehensive that a withdrawal would leave the door open for the Director of Public Prosecutions to charge them afresh. The ruling came as double victory for both Mutuse and Mwaka after another case in which they were charged with flouting procurement rules collapsed last week. The duo were accused of irregularly awarding a tender for the construction of government houses in the county.  Speaking to reporters after the verdict yesterday, Mutuse said the cases had been politically motivated.  "The second case filed against us by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission collapsed on its own while it took us over two years to defend ourselves in the other case. I am happy that politics has been eventually separated from the truth," Mutuse said.  