According to natural justice, we are all free to choose or irresponsibly not to choose our leaders. Given this principle, Deputy President William Ruto wants to be elected President by all Kikuyus and Kalenjins. While the whole of Central Kenya and Rift Valley regions may vote for him, despite being a Kikuyu, I will not vote for him. This is because I am convinced he does not deserve my vote, and his leadership is not the best for my family, my country, my world and me. Otherwise, I will never ask anyone to vote for me, not on basis of merit, but merely because of my ethnic community. Equally, I will never vote for anyone merely because of their community, even if it is my own. As more and more leaders from the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities continue to talk about the former’s debt to Ruto for his support of President Uhuru Kenyatta, unless it is checked early, I believe these leaders are creating a political storm that will involuntarily sweep all these voters into electing Ruto as the next President. This will be without due consideration whether he is the right man for the job or not. As the Kikuyu say, if you wish to avoid damage from a goat straying into your garden, ensure it does not get there at all. If it does, it is sure to do damage to your crops both on its way in and on its way out.As it is, although I don’t believe Ruto should ever lead this country, through the last election, he is already halfway to State House by ensuring his disciples were elected to become key pillars of his presidency. In the process, his Kikuyu opponents were blocked from getting elected and acquiring the platform from which to possibly oppose his election in 2022. He, however, hasn’t given me — and many other people — enough reasons as to why I should vote for him. If I ask him why I should elect him in 2022, most likely, he will certainly say because I am a Kikuyu, and every one of us owes him because he helped another Kikuyu, President Uhuru, to get to power. In other words, Ruto will want me to elect him because there is an agreement — unknown to me — that after Uhuru’s second term as President, it will be a Kalenjin’s turn in the name of Ruto. That is likely to mean after that, it will revert to another Kikuyu if the agreement between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin is still in place. But this arrangement is unjust and unfair to other Kenyans and must not be legitimised through implementation. I must also not vote for Ruto under the pressure of an alliance of two ethnic dictatorships that give 10 years of the presidency to either of the communities alternatively. If this is allowed, it can only cause alarm, fear and a sense of exclusion among many in the land. To know whether I should vote for Ruto or not, I must cast a glance at his history, which puts him on the side of one-party dictatorship, when Kenyans were fighting against tyranny in this country. As Americans demand to know whether an American seeking the presidency in their country had answered a call of duty to defend his country in a moment of war, I would be making a great error if I elected Ruto as President when he fought on the side of dictatorship. How can I use my vote to put the fate of Kenya in the hands of someone who has never stood for freedom, democracy and justice? Is it not possible that as Ruto fought against freedom during one-party dictatorship, he might again do the same when he is President? Unless he demonstrates to me otherwise, I am totally convinced that Ruto cannot make the kind of President who would stomach criticism from citizens without seeking to destroy or ruin them economically and politically. It is impossible to elect him if leadership to him is a tool of self enrichment and making as much money as possible by whatever means necessary, including corruption and all manner of graft that the country should be struggling to eradicate. Lastly, I cannot elect as president of Kenya, someone whose only qualification is his ethnicity and his membership of an ethnic alliance between his community and the Kikuyu community. According to natural justice, we are all free to choose or irresponsibly not to choose our leaders. Given this principle, Deputy President William Ruto wants to be elected President by all Kikuyus and Kalenjins. While the whole of Central Kenya and Rift Valley regions may vote for him, despite being a Kikuyu, I will not vote for him. This is because I am convinced he does not deserve my vote, and his leadership is not the best for my family, my country, my world and me. Otherwise, I will never ask anyone to vote for me, not on basis of merit, but merely because of my ethnic community. Equally, I will never vote for anyone merely because of their community, even if it is my own. As more and more leaders from the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities continue to talk about the former’s debt to Ruto for his support of President Uhuru Kenyatta, unless it is checked early, I believe these leaders are creating a political storm that will involuntarily sweep all these voters into electing Ruto as the next President. This will be without due consideration whether he is the right man for the job or not. As the Kikuyu say, if you wish to avoid damage from a goat straying into your garden, ensure it does not get there at all. If it does, it is sure to do damage to your crops both on its way in and on its way out.As it is, although I don’t believe Ruto should ever lead this country, through the last election, he is already halfway to State House by ensuring his disciples were elected to become key pillars of his presidency. In the process, his Kikuyu opponents were blocked from getting elected and acquiring the platform from which to possibly oppose his election in 2022. He, however, hasn’t given me — and many other people — enough reasons as to why I should vote for him. If I ask him why I should elect him in 2022, most likely, he will certainly say because I am a Kikuyu, and every one of us owes him because he helped another Kikuyu, President Uhuru, to get to power. In other words, Ruto will want me to elect him because there is an agreement — unknown to me — that after Uhuru’s second term as President, it will be a Kalenjin’s turn in the name of Ruto. That is likely to mean after that, it will revert to another Kikuyu if the agreement between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin is still in place. But this arrangement is unjust and unfair to other Kenyans and must not be legitimised through implementation. I must also not vote for Ruto under the pressure of an alliance of two ethnic dictatorships that give 10 years of the presidency to either of the communities alternatively. If this is allowed, it can only cause alarm, fear and a sense of exclusion among many in the land. To know whether I should vote for Ruto or not, I must cast a glance at his history, which puts him on the side of one-party dictatorship, when Kenyans were fighting against tyranny in this country. As Americans demand to know whether an American seeking the presidency in their country had answered a call of duty to defend his country in a moment of war, I would be making a great error if I elected Ruto as President when he fought on the side of dictatorship. How can I use my vote to put the fate of Kenya in the hands of someone who has never stood for freedom, democracy and justice? Is it not possible that as Ruto fought against freedom during one-party dictatorship, he might again do the same when he is President? Unless he demonstrates to me otherwise, I am totally convinced that Ruto cannot make the kind of President who would stomach criticism from citizens without seeking to destroy or ruin them economically and politically. It is impossible to elect him if leadership to him is a tool of self enrichment and making as much money as possible by whatever means necessary, including corruption and all manner of graft that the country should be struggling to eradicate. Lastly, I cannot elect as president of Kenya, someone whose only qualification is his ethnicity and his membership of an ethnic alliance between his community and the Kikuyu community.      