If one were to take a step back and observe the Kenyan political sphere from a wider and more objective perspective — regardless of one’s political orientation — they’d clearly see that change is actually prevalent in all aspects of life, even in politics.  Yes, we’ve always assumed a fatalistic stance whenever it came to the state of our country’s politics.  Whenever virtually anyone was approached to comment on where they thought the country was headed, you could always notice some concessive undertone, one that denotes some surrender to how things are run in this country. No one actually believed in change, or, better yet, evolution of our politics. I’m not even talking about oppressive regimes or things to do with standards of living, etc — that’s another story. I’m talking about how Kenyans are, naturally — whether consciously or otherwise — developing surprisingly more viable means of counteracting politicians’ shortcomings. I say surprisingly because — and let’s be frank about this — Kenya is unfortunately subject to the prejudices that come with the African identity. We’re always expected to be unprofessional, or, worse uncivilized, when it comes to our public affairs. Easily triggered violence by some leaders, who only serve to widen the rifts between their people during such hostile times, have been prevalent for the longest time in this beautiful continent. However tedious and/or redundant it has been, electoral politics have been extremely crucial, as a form of exhibition to the world, and even to us. To be honest, I was highly sceptical of the plausibility of the kind of the relative stability we’ve continued to witness right up to this very moment, and which stability we’re likely to maintain in the future. This is not to say, however, that the lives lost to divisive politics this year due to electoral disputes are to be undervalued. It was deeply heart-wrenching to watch politicians and Cabinet Secretaries get into fatal disagreements with the people, but what we can only do right now is to first of all seek to find better avenues of getting our voices heard; avenues that don’t put us substantial risk that could compromise our physical safety.  It seems abstract to the dismissive eye, but these avenues are actually manifesting themselves right here. Without being biased here, anyone and everyone has to give deserved accolades to opposition leader Raila Odinga, who has lately been utilizing some very unconventional means to advance the tenets of democracy. Raila has been bemoaning the incompetence of the IEBC for its inability to conduct flawless polls. He claims the Jubilee government has its claws sunken deep within virtually every state machine and department, including even the ‘independent’ agencies such as the IEBC. According to him, the staggering majority of the people are against the Jubilee government, and do not feel it is dedicated to serving them. Perplexingly, however, the former Prime Minister took an unexpected deviation from the customary ways of our politics. For the first time in this country, he called for a mass boycott of market products that are owned, either directly or indirectly or which support and promote the apparently sinister cause of Jubilee Party. This is such a viable course of action that even pundits allied to Jubilee have come to respect it. What we can see here, when also taking into consideration the unprecedented nullification of the August 8 presidential election by the Supreme Court, is that things are changing albeit slowly.  The fact that a Kenyan court went against the current regime is a wonder — a marvellous one. We can actually, realistically, check the government’s powers. Even Jubilee fanatics can be justifiably relieved and thankful of that realisation. Personally, I couldn’t really care less about the speed at which we’re approaching an actual legitimate and civilised democracy. What I care about, which is actually everything I care about at the moment, is that we’re actually doing something progressive for ourselves. At the moment, a section of the country is actively protesting against the government, and nobody is getting hurt or dying for it. That’s a win for Kenya. Whether or not it works for Raila is yet to be seen, but I believe it has already performed its main duty which is to introduce us to a new way of playing politics — playing it smart and, better yet, safe. I do believe, however, that Raila didn’t have much choice when it came to picking his next step. I’m personally of the opinion that people in this country have grown to be better than some things, which include open calls to war by politicians. Yes, there have been demonstrations that have been called against the government, that some people heeded to, but people could only maintain so many physical confrontations.  People actually recognise the essence of state stability, the prolific opposition maestro is very aware of that fact.