President Uhuru Kenyatta has paid tribute to Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru as a committed, visionary and tireless leader. Gakuru, 51, died after a road accident near Kabati on the Thika-Muranga highway. He was travelling to Nairobi for a morning talk show at Kameme TV.  His body was received at the Lee Funeral home, Nairobi by several leaders. More on this: Nyeri Governor, driver rushed to hospital after grisly accident "Governor Gakuru was a great leader, an action-oriented man who upon his victory in the August 8 election didn't waste time but embarked on serving the people of Nyeri with diligence and commitment. We grieve with all of you," the President said on Twitter. Uhuru condoled with the governor's family, friends and the entire county, adding that they should take comfort in the solidarity of Kenyans. "... and not to lose hope in the face of tragedy. I remind them that from time immemorial, Nyeri has seen trying times and prevailed," he said. "Even at this incredibly sorrowful juncture, Almighty God will come through, and we shall find peace." Uhuru said the National Government stands with Gakuru's family and the people of Nyeri, and will offer all the support necessary. "I last saw Gakuru a few months ago during the Nyeri Agricultural Show. He was full of vigour, and eager to serve the people of Nyeri and the country. It is sad that he is now gone," he said. "Let's stay strong and keep the faith. May God give us solace, assurance and peace." DP William Ruto also sent his condolences to Gakuru's family while noting that accidents have become a leading cause of death in Kenya.  "It's unfortunate that in this accident we have lost the governor ... and this morning is very sad and a tragic morning. Our condolence to the family and people of Nyeri,"he said. Speaking at the Lee Funeral Home, Ruto said ICT CS Joe Mucheru will lead Kenyans in the management of the events hence forth. Retired president Mwai Kibaki also sent his condolences to the family saying Gakuru was a man of progressive ideas. "I remember Gakuru as a man of progressive ideas since the days Vision 2030 was conceptualised. I had so much hope and faith in what Governor Gakuru would have done for the people of Nyeri and indeed the citizens of Kenya," he said. Kibaki asked God to provide his unparalleled comfort to the wife and children of the late Governor, his entire family, friends,acquaintances and the people of Nyeri County. "May the soul of Dr Gakuru rest in eternal peace,"he added. TYRE BURST In a separate statement on Tuesday, police said the road crash that claimed Gakuru's life was caused by a tyre burst. "The car got a tyre burst during heavy downpour and the PA, Governor and escort sustained serious injuries," police said. Police said the vehicle lost control and rammed into the rails near Kabati on the Thika-Murang'a highway. "The vehicle hit a roadside grill from its end,which entered through the Benz at its basement,"Police said. According to police, the Gakuru's PA Albert Gakuru was chopped off his palm at the wrist, Corporal Ahmed Kaib got a fracture on both legs and the driver escaped unhurt.   