Small businesses and individuals will face more difficulties accessing credit once the International Financial Reporting Standards come into force in January. “Unfortunately, it might be the small businesses that will be affected the most because of the high risk aspect,” Kenya Bankers Association chief executive Habil Olaka told the Star. The IFRS 9, expected to come into play beginning January 1, 2018, will require commercial lenders to set aside funds beforehand to mitigate loan defaults. Central Bank of Kenya data show gross non-performing loans grew 45.35 per cent to Sh208.18 billion as at December 2016, compared to Sh143.23 billion the previous year. During the period under review, loan loss provisions jumped 47.67 per cent to Sh41.76 billion, from Sh28.28 billion in 2016. In the current International Accounting Standards, lenders set aside monies from their profits termed as provisions to cater for defaults by customers.  With the new standards, three months after a customer defaults on loans, banks are required to set aside a 12-month expected credit loss allowance upfront. This also applies on performing loans. Lenders will also be required to provide a lifetime credit loss allowance immediately a client starts to delay loan payments or ultimately defaults, meaning the banks will become more stringent in the disbursement of loans. “The impact of the IFRS 9 will be such that credit applications perceived to be high risk either because of the sector in which they are or the individual will have challenges in terms of achieving credit growth,” Olaka said. “Coupling that with the impact the interest rate cap has had, I think the two will probably curtail growth in specific segments.” Slightly over a year ago, the interest rate cap came into effect. Since its commencement, commercial banks have been seen to shun private sector lending, especially to small businesses, because of their high credit risk profile. Among those hardest hit by the rate cap law have been the dominant micro and small-sized enterprises seeking capital for growth and development. Having failed to achieve its intended purpose, the CBK is seeking to have the rate cap law reviewed. According to CBK, private sector credit growth fell to 4.3 per cent in December 2016, compared to more than 17 per cent a year earlier, largely on rising loan default rates and the interest rate cap. Olaka however said there is a ray of hope for the lower risk segment as the global standards will make credit more accessible. “The low-end risk market will benefit because now the credit appraisal will take into consideration the risk posture by the applicant and give the impairment upon disbursement based on risk assessment,” he said. “Initially, under the IAS 39, good risk aspects of the facility were not factored in but with the new standards, they will be.” Under the new accounting standards, banks will have to provide a 10 per cent guarantee for every loan taken before default as well as setting provisions for government securities that are perceived to be risk-free. Letters of credit, financial guarantees, performance guarantees, unused credit cards and non-traded government bonds will also be used to calculate impairment, a departure from IAS 39, which only requires banks to set provisions for credit facilities in default after 90 days. The banking sector will also face tougher times ahead as experts suggest the new standards will exert pressure on expenditure, and in turn slash the banks’ profit margins. “Banks will have to do three sets of accounts, one for impairment according to Central Bank of Kenya rules, one for the Kenya Revenue Authority to calculate taxes on profit after impairment, and another for impairment according to IFRS 9. This makes compliance a costly affair,” Olaka said. He reiterated the need to revisit the law capping interest rates in light of the new standard accounting rule.