DP William Ruto has launched a scathing attack on Opposition leader Raila Odinga for trying to thwart his 2022 presidential ambitions. During his visit to the US, Raila told his audience in Washington DC that the "current artificial majority" being enjoyed by Jubilee was one of the hindrances in the country's quest for reforms. "The Jubilee government has a goal of ruling until 2032 and has targeted severe damage to institutions including IEBC and the judiciary," he said on Thursday.  "This is because we have had presidents from two tribes of Kenya and another one from the same is preparing to take over after 2022. [This is] a direct death for democracy yet this is supposed to stimulate development in countries as exhibited after the move from single to multiparty politics." More on this: West failed Kenya during election but it's not too late, Raila tells CSIS Ruto who is set to vie for the top seat in 2022 did not take these remarks lightly, saying Raila is to prevent his presidential ambitions. "So, Tinga went all the way to the USA to seek support to scuttle the possibility of a son of a peasant from being elected prezo in 2022! Balaa!," Ruto said via Twitter. This provoked mixed reactions from Twitter users as some asked him to unite Kenyans before 2022 ambitions play out. "Not the language of a person who is supposed to be the unifying factor of a great nation called Kenya. 2022 is still a long way to go, focus on reconciling Kenyans," '@Freddyotengo2' said, adding "... We need to get back to our normal lives." '@Nteini' said: "Look like power is more important to the leadership of this country than the well being of its citizens [sic]." "What has [Raila] done to you this time round? So you must mention his name to stay relevant in the game?" '@Muts_Victor' said. '@pmathuki' said: "Our beloved Country is under siege courtesy of people good only in chest thumping and name calling! Fast losing Regional n international respect! The situation in Kenya is worsening [sic]." "Elections are not about "sons of Peasants" or daughters of tycoons," Samuel Atandi said. Odera Omondi wrote: "What if we spread messages of unity, peace, liberty and justice because I believe these are the values that build a nation?? I think by doing that we can have a great nation." 'SOLVE ISSUES INTERNALLY' Some even took a stab at Ruto for facing crimes against humanity charges at the ICC, a matter that was dropped. "He [Raila] went abroad as a statesman representing Kenya and Africa but you went abroad as a suspect of serious criminal acts," '@OgaraJnr' said. But other users attacked Raila saying he should have discussed Kenyan things in Kenya and not in a foreign country. "This is an embarrassment to the nation. Any leader going to lecture/speak/entertain should always ensure that Kenya is portrayed as a beacon of hope for Africa," Kiama Kiharu said. He added, "Let us strive to resolve our issues internally and not give the mzungu any chance of believing we are good for nothing." '@kemboieliud4' said: "Worry less your excellency DP Ruto, Tinga is enjoying is time of retirement in politics by addressing idle European people." With President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election for a second and final term in office, Ruto's 2022 presidential bid seems to have received a major boost and remains well on course. His desire to inherit the crucial central Kenya political base, as a springboard for his 2022 presidential bid, glowed with fresh impetus and proved his critics wrong. Read: Ruto the biggest beneficiary in Uhuru win, 2022 bid gets boost In what appeared to further cement Ruto’s central role within the Jubilee political fulcrum, the DP’s key point men - both in his strategic Rift Valley home turf and far afield - triumphed in the elections. Ruto also managed to mount a successful vicious onslaught against mutiny within his turf that saw rebellious Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto lose his seat. The position was won by former National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso, Ruto's key ally.