Title: Free Dreams Artist: Maurice Kirya Genre: R&B/Soul Release: October 27, 2017   Maurice Kirya is 33-year-old contemporary R&B artiste with a silky, soothing voice and a fondness for brilliant melodies. Well, he has been known for making music full of love, and his vocals have shone throughout his works without compromising his vision. Since the Ugandan artiste made his 2002 debut, he has remained among R&B’s most engaging faces in East Africa, expanding his catalogue and growing his fanbase. He has mastered the art of properly packaging music, without a slight hint of immaturity.  Now we can agree that he is fully formed and is back with yet another production that highlights his most amazing qualities. The fourth studio LP, christened “Free Dreams”, is certainly his most significant to date.  The 10-track album gets your feels going from the second it kicks off with Heart Back — a track that incorporates electronic elements in its instrumentation. You can experience Kirya’s sublime harmonies on the love song Anything You Like, which is succeeded by a rock-inflected Dreams Are Free.  Resilience and resolve are some of the messages strongly emphasised by Kirya on the tracks Get Up Again and Never Get Enough. Other essential tracks include Crippin and Love Me Now. The album closes out with a toned-down Heaven on Earth, which is a remorseful prayer. The project doesn’t feel like a slog and in only 34 minutes, you already have a clear idea of the concept embodied in it. There are lots of bright spots on “Free Dreams,” some of which assure his followers of better days. With no guest features, the artiste proves that he is audacious and willing to go down the road alone, which he does very well. With Free Dreams, Maurice Kirya is on a roll and he shows no sign of stopping. He is a prodigy and his contribution is characteristically dexterous and you can tell that he sounds quite enthused to do this. Lyrically, Kirya launches himself into topics that most can relate to, integrating a sound way diverse than ever before.   Star Rating:   4/5  