NASA and it's affiliate parties could be deregistered if a petition filed to the registrar of political parties sails through. Council of Professionals of Kenya claim that NASA has been converted to National Resistant Movement which does not respect and adhere to the rule of law. In a letter addressed to the registrar's chairperson Lucy Ndung'u, the council argued that NASA leadership was engaging in 'militia led protests' and were, hence, in breach of the constitution and the Political Party Act. The council through their chairman Ababu Namwamba told the registrar to deregister ODM, FORD Kenya and Wiper. "We, by this petition, humbly beseech yourself to invoke your powers and commence investigations and disciplinary proceedings that may lead to the process of deregistering the NASA coalition, its militia group NRM and affiliate political parties," read the letter. Namwamba says in the petition that NASA - led by Raila Odinga - implored violence on IEBC officials and blocked citizens from voting during last Thursday's fresh presidential election. The former Budalangi MP said that NASA has violated Article 91 (1) of the Constitution. Former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana said the disciplinary measure, if effected, will affect all leaders elected under NASA outfit from MCAs, MPs, Governors and Senators. "We will follow this matter to the later because law and order must be respected and adhered to," he said. The council's convenor Prof Peter Kagwanja said they have issued a seven-day ultimatum to the registrar to take action, failure to which they will explore legal mechanism over the matter. Kagwanja said that will also crack whip on civil society groups and their financiers to ensure that they abide by the constitution while addressing various issues affecting the country. On Election Eve, Opposition leader Raila Odinga rebranded NASA as a national resistance movement to defy "illegitimate government" and boycott goods and services benefiting "dictatorship". The former Prime Minister yesterday repeated his call for a nationwide boycott of today's "sham' presidential rerun but called on his supporters not to demonstrate, lest they be massacred by a "blood-thirsty regime".  Raila said the resistance movement will "strive to restore a government established in compliance with the Constitution". The resistance will convene a People's Assembly to chart the way forward and press for "a fresh, free, fair presidential election organized in 90 days," he said.