Kura is
constructing a market along Kangundo Road to compensate small traders who were
evicted during the redesign of Outer Ring Road. Construction
of the road caused losses to business set up along the road. Most
businesses were located on the right side heading towards Donholm. They mostly
include selling of clothes, shoes, groceries, cutlery and car-hire services. Right at their doorsteps were deep trenches. The road construction work also left behind a heavy cloud of dust, which kept clients at bay. Those with cars had no parking spaces. Reaching some of the premises called for some serious jumping exercises.    FORCED TO MOVE Many of the traders were based around the Donholm roundabout. George
Kiplagat, a trader at Donholm area, said: “I have been selling ladies' footwear
at the Donholm roundabout for the past five years, but immediately the tractors
came and started digging, I had to move away.”  Kiplagat said
although the Outer Ring Road project will improve the transport system in
Eastlands, he had no option but to look for another location where he can set
up his business. Speaking to
the Star, John Cheboi, the chief corporate communications officer of Kura, said
the question of hawkers and traders along side roads is a major urban problem. “In the Outer
Ring project, Kura has tried to mitigate by assisting over 400 youths obtain
life skills and therefore gain employment of open better businesses,” he said. Kura is
working with the county government to have this market completed and thereafter
enforce the law to ensure hawking along the corridor is ended for security and
safety reasons. The intention
is to have hawkers moved to the site away from the highway.   HAWKERS TARGETED A joint
programme between Kura and the African Development Bank, set to cost Sh33
million, is targeting hawkers along the Outer Ring Road. “Under the
same programme, we have set aside Sh800million for the construction of a fresh produce
market along Kangundo Road, which has now taken off and is expected to be
completed in early next year,” Cheboi said.