My view is that we adopted a Constitution about seven years ago, and the right thing for the country would have been to say we have been testing that document. The first election under the Constitution was in 2013, so we can talk about four years. If we are serious as a country, we would be saying can we now identify the challenges that have arisen and say how do we address them with a view to strengthening our governance system? Some of those things could be done through legislation and constitutional amendments that are aimed to improve the Constitution and not worsen it. When we were doing this Constitution, a number of us had taken the position of a parliamentary system. A parliamentary system offers an opportunity for negotiated government in countries that have diversity. They normally offer an opportunity for accommodation of even minorities in the government. Parliamentary systems are more conducive to the formation of coalition governments, as opposed to presidential systems, because, ideally, coalitions ought to be between parties and not necessarily individuals. As we went on with making the Constitution, we all started seeing we should settle for a hybrid between the presidential system and parliamentary systems, but a parliamentary committee rejected that and the people settled for the presidential. My own assessment is that the presidential system we settled for, which we drew from the American example, which insists on pure separation between the Executive and the Legislature, has not served us well. We have ministers who do not have a political base, in our naive approach, we were saying we need ministers who are professionals and who should not involve themselves in politics, but in retrospective those ministers who do not have a political base of their own have proven to be very useless, because they cannot stand up to those who appointed them to the office. Many of them are basically tools; one would be able to say that the system has promoted corruption. The professionalism we were talking about does not exist. In the old days, with a minister elected as an MP all the President would do is to sack you as a minister, but you retained your position as MP. That election would give a minister some political base and strength that can even enable him to stand up to the President if he thinks things are going wrong. The writer is a lecturer