The other day the Zimbabwean military force seized control from long-reigning totalitarian Robert Mugabe in a somewhat unexpectedly pacifistic fashion. And when he addressed Zimbabweans and the world on Sunday, he left many disappointed when he didn’t announce his resignation. He only did that on Tuesday through the Speaker. The world was treated to a flabbergasting show, especially on social media — where most of us learnt about the developments. And for some reason, there was minimal confrontation between the adversaries. In the face of it all, most will agree that Zimbabwe behaved itself. Now, in a fortunate or unfortunate coincidence, Kenya has found itself on the stage barely a couple of days later. NASA leader Raila Odinga leader jetted back into the country from a 10-day visit in the US and his highly anticipated arrival caused quite a stir in the capital. Many were intrigued by the uncertainty of his reception, given that NASA’s procession was frustrated.  Upon Raila’s arrival, nothing seemed to have changed since the events of the previous polls, as the usual antagonists, the police and NASA supporters, clashed on different occasions.  What stood out, however, was the reinforced willpower of the NASA followers who braved thick relentless clouds of teargas and jets of high-velocity water from police cannons to assert their determination and drive against the government. There were fatalities and injuries, all happening as the world watched. Well done Kenya, but Zimbabwe has displayed a better sense of maturity than you have. It doesn’t really matter whether or not they’re more civilised than we are: All that counts is how the rest of the world views us. Global and regional perceptions of a country are crucial to that country’s well-being. If you were to take the perspective of a person outside our country, you would take Kenya for a stereotypically disorganised and polarised African state. Well, of course, those of us who actually live here know for a fact that that’s not the reality The media lenses are more often than not focussed on where things are hectic as opposed to where nothing is out of the ordinary. This is bad for this country because for the most part of this year, our political stability has been highly questionable. Our economy has suffered a great deal, owing to the constant interruptions of businesses by the various political activities. Potential investors have obviously opted for more seemingly stable places within the continent.  Many of us have obviously not realised that our neighbouring country Tanzania, which has for the longest time existed in our shadow economically, has recently turned out to be our superior in terms of economic growth. It’s indisputable that this situation is expected to worsen, if the political temperature forecast is anything to go by. Now, according to the NASA faction, the government is a shameful failure with regard to its mandate. The opposition seeks to ‘liberate’ the common Kenyan from the ‘autocracy’ that is the Jubilee leadership. Jubilee dismisses the opposition as an organisation of anarchist individuals who can only accept a government, in which they themselves are included: What either side claims about the other isn’t of that much importance. The important thing here is the Kenyan people’s reception and interpretation of their leaders’ sentiments.  And I can confidently say that the people are dancing a tad too passionately to the divisive rhetoric tunes of the politicians. This can best be seen on social media platforms, where fanatics of opposing sides are having a serious go at each other, blind to the reality of a nation headed for an irreversible disaster. It’s time we faced the reality we’ve been trying so hard to dismiss — we’re so very deeply divided. This is because of our very own willingness to be misled by these overly ambitious leaders into thinking that it’s a winner-takes-all kind of political competition. The vitriol currently being spewed on social media from both sides is not to be taken lightly at all. For the most part, although it’s not being discussed on public platforms, the main issue right now has to do with the seemingly unending rivalry between the Luo and the Kikuyu, which not surprisingly has been perpetuated by the same two powerful families of the tribes. Leaders are very much aware of this fact. What we should realise is that right now we’re on the verge of a catastrophic fallout.  Tension can brew only for so long. Something will surely give and it would be very unwise of us to let our nation fall apart, when all of it could easily have been avoided. Let’s take a step back and rethink how we’re to follow our leaders.    Jebet is a journalist and political analyst