The role played by Gideon Moi in welcoming dignitaries attending President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inauguration has raised eyebrows, with Kenyans on social media questioning whether the 2022 succession plans are already underway. Photos emerged of the Baringo Senator, son of former President Daniel Moi, receiving dignitaries, among them Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and Salva Kiir of South Sudan. Kenyans on Twitter questioned if the move was a political strategy that could see him become next in line to succeed Uhuru, who is serving his second and final term in office. The tweets also pitted Gideon against DP William Ruto, with some saying the legislator is lining up to prevent Kenyatta’s second in command from ascending to the coveted seat in 2022. Political analyst Wesley Simba said, however, that welcoming guests may not help Gideon gain political mileage over Ruto. He said Ruto had gained massive power in the Rift Valley and Gideon will find it difficult to wrest the region from him. “Welcoming dignitaries is a powerful gesture, but not powerful enough to put you in the top list of the ‘heir to the throne’. Ruto has proved to be the kingpin of Rift Valley politics. All presidents in the republic have had unwavering support in their backyards,” Simba said. He added, however, that the supremacy battle between the two is not over yet. “The battle for supremacy in the Rift Valley is far from over. We expect to see it as soon as the President assumes office. The two faces to watch will be Ruto and Gideon,” Simba said. Ahead of the August 8 polls, speculation was high that Moi and Independence party Kanu were in talks to work with NASA. A deal struck by Uhuru and top Kanu leaders, in consultation with former President Moi, saw a shift, with Gideon backing Uhuru’s reelection. In the deal, Kanu would get appointments to the Cabinet. It was also to get a number of lucrative parastatal appointments and plum diplomatic slots. Before the deal, Ruto and Gideon had engaged in an open supremacy battle over control of the populous Rift Valley. Gideon declined to dissolve Kanu late last year when Jubilee affiliates merged into one party.