Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to reach out to the Opposition and make peace after the disputed October elections. "We in KANU are confident that you will rise up and extend the olive branch to those who hold political opinions contrary to yours, and in a spirit of brotherhood steer Kenya towards greater prosperity," he said. In a statement on Wednesday, Gideon said Uhuru should follow the footsteps of the late American President Abraham Lincoln. "We equate Kenya society to that of America which was fragmented by civil wars of 1861 to 1865. When Lincoln won the elections he put a plan for peace and unity that was flexible and generous," he said.  "We assure you of our support and pray that the Almighty grants you the wisdom and energy to continue with your efforts to unite our country which is presently severely fragmented." Gideon congratulated the President on his re-election for a second term. NASA leaders have said they will have a parallel swearing-in of Raila Odinga on Tuesday next week when President Uhuru will take an oath of office for his second term. These threats are bound to ignite a further confrontation with Jubilee. This was after the Supreme Court upheld Uhuru’s victory in the presidential rerun on October 26. He ran virtually unopposed. Raila boycotted the poll and so did most of his supporters. NASA said that the unanimous ruling by Supreme Court judges was delivered under “duress”. Read: Supreme Court was under duress, Uhuru reign illegitimate - Raila After the ruling, violence erupted in Kisumu, Migori and Kawangware. Youths rioted in parts of Kisumu, burning cars, blocking roads and confronting police at Kondele. They tried unsuccessfully to burn the Kondele police station.  In Kisumu they burned a Safaricom mast.  Safaricom is one of the “pro-government” companies NASA wants boycotted. There was chaos in Migori, where one person was killed, and in Awendo, Rongo and Sori. Violence  also broke out in Kawangware slum in Nairobi. Read: NASA to swear in Raila as President next Tuesday Click here for the latest political news