Technical University of Mombasa student leaders have given Education CS Fred Matiang'i 72 hours to end the lecturers' strike or face protests. The union leaders said they will mobilise their colleagues across the country for daily demonstrations until the government acts on the lecturers' pay row. Lecturers, who have been on strike since November 1, have maintained they will not go back to work until the government honours their Sh10 billion CBA. TUM student union president Daniel Otieno said they cannot accept Matiang'i unwillingness to engage with the dons. "Comrades' patience is at the elastic limit and very soon it will break....we promise," he said at the campus on Wednesday. Otieno added that Matiang'i should "abstain from politics as a plague" and end the crisis which has affected learning in universities countrywide. Last week's talks between their union and the Inter Public University Council Consultative Forum stalled. The lecturers' CBA is in two phases, with the national one covering basic salaries and house allowances. The internal agreement, which was to be registered by May, caters for medical cover and pensions among others.  'COMRADES SICK AND TIRED' Otieno asked Matiang'i to apply the same authority he has been using to end exam cheating to addressing lecturers concerns. "Comrades are sick and tired of his indecipherable silence that seems to cheer the status quo," he said. Lecturers have said universities have not remitted close to Sh2 billion for pension to their retired members. Otieno demanded that TUM vice chancellor Leila Abubakar makes an official communication on the status of learning within 24 hours. "She should close the university until the strike is over," he said. The protesters noted the government is aware of students' power, energy and resolve to strike. "If government fails to do what we are demanding, we will have to do 'some things' because this is compromising time," he warned. TUM academic secretary Jomo Kelvin said the Jubilee government is ignorant of intellectual property. The union's deputy president Jackline Kavutha noted the right to education should not be deprived. "If we decide today to call nationwide student demonstrations, this country will bedoomed," she said. Secretary general Nyasimi Derick said the government must swallow its pride and head talks with dons. "The government is taking a hard stance and doesn't want to negotiate with UASU. This stand is political and unacceptable," he said. Read: JKUAT lecturers join strike to push for higher salaries Also read: Lecturers’ strike to continue as talks with varsity council fail    