Dons and staff in public varsities across the country will begin their strike today to protest against failure by the government to implement the 2013-17 CBA. The implementation of the CBA could not be sustained due to lack of funds by various employers and the university senate. The CBA, signed on March, first began implementation on July after the government awarded the workers unions Sh6 billion under the agreement to cater for salary adjustments for its members. The amount was part of the cumulative Sh10 billion the government awarded three unions — University Academic Staff Union, Kenya University Staff Union and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers — which were pushing for a pay increase for their members However, the implementation of the deal hit a snag after month, and varsities were forced to revert to the previous salaries due to lack of cash. A lot of the money was used in settling arrears that had accumulated since 2013. According to UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga, the government failed to budget for the implementation of the CBA after it failed to allocate a supplementary budget for the 2017-18 financial year. “When the varsities paid the lecturers arrears from 2013 all the way to June ,there was no money left to sustain the new salaries and we have given them time to try and bring in the funds through the supplementary budget. They have failed to take keen note,” Wasonga told the Star yesterday. Wasonga further said the employees further expect a full payment of their four month arrears since July. "The Union is going to call for work boycott on expiration of the notice on 1st November and all our members in all public universities and their constituent colleges shall withdraw their labor and shall not resume duty until the 2013-2017 CBA is implemented," he said. A spot check by the Star reveals various lecturers from different varsities confirmed their salaries still reflected the old CBA. The strike will affect at least 33 public universities and their constituent colleges across the country. More than 500,000 students will be affected. Under the new CBA, the lowest paid professor is set to earn Sh170,050 a month up from Sh144,672. The least paid academic staff will earn Sh82,037, up from Sh69,794, the academic staff members will also benefit from a house allowance of 3.9 per cent.