Goods listed under the NASA boycott plan have suffered low sales in Kisumu, a spot check by The Star has revealed. This has been reported in major supermarkets namely Tuskys, Naivas, Tumaini, Khetias and Choppies. Most of the shops have reduced their orders for products from the targeted companies. NASA, through the national resistance movement (NRM), on Thursday last week asked its supporters to shun Safaricom, Brookside Dairy and Bidco products. Choppies supermarkets, which has five outlets in Kisumu town, has reportedly reduced their stock orders from the said companies. A worker at one of the stores said most customers are demanding for milk products from other companies. The attendant said the demand for Tuzo, Molo, Dairy Fresh, Delamere and Ilara products have reduced. "Most customers only ask for products which are not associated by the said companies. They only want the ones okayed by Raila Odinga." "The milk products used to move fast before the boycott call," the worker who asked not to be named said on Wednesday. Bidco has also suffered sales of Soya, Golden Fry, Ufuta, Kimbo, Sungold and Elianto cooking oils.  Some of the products are now being sold on special offer to lure customers. Maureen Otieno, a customer at Khetias, told The Star that she has opted for products not associated with the three companies. "I will resume buying the products when directed by our leaders. Nothing comes easy and we are ready to sacrifice for the sake of justice and democracy." Long queues were also seen in most Airtel retail outlets in Kisumu as Safaricom customers sought to migrate. Gilbert Owino, an Airtel salesman, said the demand has grown after the NASA boycott announcement. "Many customers visiting the Airtel shops have called on the company to upgrade on its network and open more Airtel money outlets," Owino added. Read: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott More on this: NASA supporters to suffer more from products boycott - Governor Tolgos Opposition leaders, in separate interviews, said they will not stop campaigns to make the product boycott successful. Kisumu woman representative Rosa Buyu said the boycott is meant to achieve electoral justice in the country. She said the situation of the companies using their profits to overturn the will of the people in elections is unacceptable. The affected firms are yet to comment on the accusations. "Corrupt companies which have chosen to meddle in politics by taking sides must now be ready to dance to the tune of economic sabotage," Buyu said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said there were many alternative products and services their supporters can opt for. "Our economy is already on its knees under the jubilee administration. Therefore, there is no price that is too high to pay for democracy." "The companies we are migrating to are part of the contributors to the country’s economy," Wandayi said. Before leaving for the US, Raila led a host of MPs in migrating from Safaricom to Airtel. Read: NASA boycott: Raila migrates from Safaricom to Airtel