Elgeyo Marakwet mango traders are staring at losses after rains destroyed roads in the region rendering them impassable. The traders said the mangoes are rotting as they cannot be transported following the sorry condition of Liter-Arror road. Several lorries ferrying the crop from the area have overturned whereas others have got stuck in the mud for days on end. Calvin Jepchumba, who has been affected, said dozens of passengers were left stranded on Thursday and Friday night. Jepchumba said they have not been able to transport mangoes from Liter, Marakwet East since Thursday. The trader said she gave up after the lorry she hired to ferry the produce to Nakuru and Nairobi got stuck twice. "Our lorry got stuck at Soko Bora on Thursday night and later at Arror. We have spent a lot of money hiring youths to push it out of the mud."  A lorry carrying mangoes overturned in Endo, Marakwet East after heavy rains in November 6, 2017. /STEPHEN RUTTO "We don't know when we will get out of this place," Jepchumba said urging Kenya Rural Roads Authority to upgrade the roads. "The mangoes will not fetch good money in the market because they are already rotten." Michael Kimutai, a resident of Arror, said the road was blocked after a lorry's tyre burst on Friday. Kimutai said the incident has paralysed transport through the route. "Even boda boda riders cannot pass this point because the driver lost control and the lorry completely blocked the road," he said.  A lorry which overturned near Arror, Marakwet West due to heavy rains on November 3, 2017. /STEPHEN RUTTO Arror MCA Christopher Kibor said the county government has deployed a team to repair the damaged sections of the road. He said the county government has agreed to build sections of the road instead of waiting for the Kenya National Highways Authority. The rains, which are being experienced in most parts of the country, have also paralysed transport along Kapcherop-Cheptongei in Marakwet West. On Monday, exam officials were forced to use power saws to clear roads and deliver KCSE papers in time. Schools in Kapyego and Embobut, Marakwet East were affected after trees fell on two roads following heavy rains.