The city county government will identify new revenue streams, automate all collection and give incentives to debtors to encourage them to clear their bills. These are some of the measures and strategies the county plans to employ to expand its revenue base and improve collections to finance its budget. The county has failed to meet its revenue projection since 2013. In the last financial year, it had a budget deficit of Sh11 billion due to poor revenue performance. Failure by the county to automate all the 122 revenue streams, leakages and corrupt revenue collectors have been blamed for the consistent poor performance. Former Governor Evans Kidero had automated revenue collection in only five streams by the time he left office in August. But new Governor Mike Sonko has ordered JamboPay, the company contracted by the county to automate all the revenue streams. According to the County Annual Development Plan 2018-19 tabled in the assembly last Tuesday by deputy speaker and Njiru MCA John Kamaya, the county has consistently achieved an average of 78 per cent of revenue targets in the previous years. “This trend continues to undermine prospects for full implementation of the county's integrated development plan and, by extension, the strategic Plan 2015-2023.  The CADP, prepared by the county treasury, states that the county will expand its revenue base and increase tax compliance through integration of technology in revenue collection. “The E-construction, Ad manager, betting and control and mobile application systems will help the county ensure all areas and sectors are captured,” reads the plan. The plan says new areas of revenue collection, especially in the populous Eastlands, will be identified. It says the county will prepare a register of all its property, including rental houses, to ensure all the tenants pay.  A new valuation roll will also be developed. It says the current property valuation roll was devolved in 1983 when the value of most of property were low. “The county is owed huge amounts of money and incentives will be given with a n aim of getting payments,” it says. The county will issue waivers on penalties for its debtors, including the national government, whose debt stood at Sh106 billion as at the end of the 2016-17 financial year, to encourage them to pay. According to the county annual financial report released last week, City Hall's key revenue streams underperformed in the last financial year. The streams are rates, parking, single business permits, building permits and billboards (advertising). And according to the CADP, the shortfall in internal revenue targets has had hurt development projects. It says the county's capital budget absorption rates averaged 9.8 per cent in 2013-14 and 11.4 per cent in 2014-15.  