President Uhuru Kenyatta Wednesday met Irish Foreign and Trade Minister Simon Coveney for talks on strengthening bilateral relations and trade. The Minister, who is on a regional tour of Africa, briefed President Kenyatta on a new initiative by the Irish government to upgrade relations between the two countries. He commended President Kenyatta for his leadership on major global issues, including the rule of law and strict adherence to the Constitution. "One of the best things you have done is to remind the world that there is separation of powers in Kenya," Coveney said. He said Kenya is experiencing great economic and social transformation which his country wants to be part of by partnering on key areas of socio-economic growth. "We want to change our relations with Kenya to make them more comprehensive. In the past our relations were driven by missionaries but as of now we want to be part of the new economic story being experienced in Kenya." Earlier, the Irish Minister opened a new chancery and also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries. This will see them offer technical support to the ministry, especially in potato farming and development of Blue Economy – a major thrust for the administration. The technical support team will provide potato farmers with skilled support on research, increased production and post-harvest management of the crop. President Kenyatta said his administration is keen to work closely with the Irish government in building strong relations for the benefit of the citizens of the two countries. He said it is important for the two countries to upscale their partnership, saying Ireland's decision is timely. The government has been working hard to harness its potential in agriculture and the marine sector. "We would be glad to work together and offer support to potato farmers and also harness our Blue Economy so as to create opportunities to our youth," Uhuru said. Present at the event were Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed and Ireland Ambassador to Kenya Vincent O'Neil.