NASA has asked ICC to collect evidence on post-election killing, saying President Uhuru Kenyatta can only rule by cowing the people into submission. Police said on Sunday that at least five people were killed overnight in Riverside, Ruaraka, an opposition stronghold. NASA leader Raila Odinga accused the government of being behind the killings and put the death toll in violence at 31 since he returned from US. The police tally over the same period was nine. Read: Tear gas, gunshots as NASA supporters wait for Raila outside JKIA Also read: Five looters 'killed by mobs' during NASA protests - police "We call upon UNHCR, ICC to immediately begin collecting evidence which will identify atrocities that should be treated as international crimes," Raila's adviser Salim Lone said. In a statement on Wednesday, Lone said every single life needlessly extinguished is unacceptable and should be treated as a heinous crime. "The killers must face the harshest penalties the law allows. But when the killings are ethnically targeted, they are even more heinous and rise to the level of crimes against humanity," he said. "As all Kenyans know, these are subject to prosecution by the International Criminal Court." 'NO TO UHURU SUBMISSION' Lone further said Uhuru can only rule by cowing the people into submission adding his reign and policies have "irrevocably alienated" most of the population. "The other 42 communities are therefore of no great concern to them. And they do not know that no Kenyan community can be cowed into accepting unlawful rule," he said. Lone said Uhuru's latest "murderous rampages" have shocked many Jubilee supporters, who assumed he would erase his divisive and destabilizing legacy of illegitimacy. "We call upon Uhuru to immediately order an end to the slaughter. The violence is of course directed against communities which support NASA," he said. He said the deaths is a warped scheme to portray the nationally-oriented opposition to Uhuru’s government as being only tribally motivated. "Our supporters should continue exercising restraint in their protests and avoid any actions that could be used as a pretext for more killing," he said. Lone said appeals for an end to the murderous policies of the government will fall on deaf ears.  "We will very shortly be announcing a list of self-protection measures," he said. After the Supreme Court upheld Uhuru's re-election, youths stoned and burnt a vehicle in Kondele, Kisumu county. They were seen trying to dismantle the white car as others looked for rocks to break the windscreen before they set it ablaze. Read: Car torched in Kondele after Supreme Court upholds Uhuru win Also read: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 The President said on Tuesday that after his swearing-in next Tuesday, he will unite Kenyans and initiate a national healing process. He also promised to serve the entire population ,despite their political affiliations, develop all parts and quell political temperatures by protecting citizens and their property. "The President would like to assure all Kenyans, those who voted for him and those who did not vote for him, that he will be their President," State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said. Police have denied using live ammunition and targeting NASA supporters following allegations by several opposition leaders. Read: Uhuru pledges protection, service to all Kenyans after inauguration Click here for the latest political news