NASA has summoned all county assembly speakers and majority leaders for a strategy meeting next week on the People’s Assembly. The speakers from 20 counties are expected in Nairobi on Friday to be briefed about the new concept that is part of NASA’s strategy to deny Jubilee’s administration legitimacy. A pool of opposition lawyers and professionals, led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, and economist David Ndii will take them through the establishment of the assemblies. The People’s Assemblies is the brainchild of Ndii, a critic of Jubilee administration and who kick started the debate with his “Kenya is a cruel marriage” clarion call. “Because the concept is new and our people are yet to understand it, we are calling mainly the assemblies’ leadership for a two-day workshop so that our team of lawyers can explain to them what it is and what will be their input so that we all read from the same page,” a source told the Star. NASA has drafted a People’s Assemblies Bill and forwarded it to the counties that fall in opposition strongholds. In areas where the opposition lacks numbers they will establish the assemblies directly without going through the county assemblies. NASA leader Raila Odinga on Thursday said during his address in Washington DC that the assemblies will chart the road map for fresh polls by February next year. “We have convened a People’s Assembly to guide the country to a fresh, free and fair presidential election, as decreed by the Supreme Court,” Raila told a parked audience at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). Already four counties – Siaya, Homabay, Vihiga and Busia - have passed the motion which among other things seeks not to recognise the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. In Makueni and Machakos counties, the debate on the motion is ongoing and area elected leaders have expressed confidence of having it passed. “The notice of motion to form the People’s Assembly is already in Makueni, Kitui and Machakos. It is scheduled to be debated on Tuesday,” said Robert Mbui, Kathiani MP. The motion will be presented for debate in Kwale, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Lamu, Bungoma, and Kakamega counties as from Tuesday next week. In Migori, Kisumu, Kisii, Nyamira, Turkana, Mombasa, Tan River and Wajir counties, the motion is still pending.