IEBC has dropped lawyers Paul Muite and Patrick Lumumba who represented it during the August 8 election petition. The electoral commission lost the petition filed by NASA leader Raila Odinga at the Supreme Court. The court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta's win on grounds of massive irregularities and illegalities. Read: Raila wins as Supreme Court nullifies Uhuru re-election Sources within IEBC told the Star on Tuesday, the commission appointed eight lawyers who will represent it in the October 26 petitions. They are Waweru Gatonye (Lead Cousel), Kamau Karori, Eric Gumbo, George Murugu, Wambua Kilonzo, Kimani Muhoro, Mahat Somane and Lucy Kambuni. Gatonye graduated from the University of Nairobi in 1974 with L.L. B (Honours). He is also an advocate having worked in the office of the Attorney General and rose to become a deputy to the then Director of Public Prosecutions. He is a member of the Law Society of Kenya, the National Advocates’ Disciplinary Committee, East Africa Law Society, international Commission of Jurists as well as the International Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. He has had the singular honour to be appointed by His Excellency the President of Kenya as an Assisting Counsel to the just concluded Goldenberg Inquiry investigating the loss of billions of shillings of public funds. Gatonye was also appointed by the Central Bank of Kenya as lead counsel to the Commission of Inquiry into the sale and transfer of the Grand Regency, (the Kimunya Commission). On the other hand, Karori is the partner in charge of the dispute resolution practice at IKM.  He has been involved in many high profile commercial disputes in the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. Karori has attained the rank of Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitration and is an active member of the institute's branch in Kenya. Based on his extensive experience in the field, he has been retained by several multinationals and high ranking individuals to advise and/or act in various dispute resolution matters. In recognition of his status, he has been invited by the Judicial Training Institute to train Judges of the High Court and Court of Appeal. He is currently a member of the team advising the judiciary on the introduction of court mandated ADR. He has attended several international arbitration conferences in Kenya and abroad. He has also served as Attorney and Arbitrator in a number of high profile arbitrations. Several of his arbitral awards have been upheld by the court.  Karori represented the IEBC and its Chairman before the Supreme Court of Kenya in the petitions that resulted from the March 2013 presidential elections.