If the proposal for secession were unpalatable for some Kenyans, then a softer option, equally good, would be federalism for those of us who are fed up with the shenanigans of the central government. Devolution has been a very big step forward in our governance system, but the centralist gurus in Nairobi, particularly the Treasury and the Presidency, are determined not to make devolution work. The game they are playing is stupidly obvious. They think they can carbon copy the tactics of those who killed Majimbo in the early sixties and kill devolution by financial starvation. It is not that easy. Wananchi wameerevuka! Back to federalism: What is it? We don’t need to be involved in an exercise of definitions. Just look at the US: It has a federal system of government, and it works. Look at India, the same thing. Even Canada’s provinces are not that weak: They are very much states on their own within the Canadian state. So what is the great difference between a devolved system of government such as ours and a federal system? In a devolved system of government, while you cook in your own house, the food and the recipes you use for cooking come from the big mother, the central government in Nairobi. Sometimes you begin wondering why you were given the kitchen, the cooking pot and the fireplace, while the fire and the food to cook must come from Nairobi. If Nairobi keeps the unga and the firewood, you will starve to death. In the US, the people in Washington gave the kitchen, the food, the fireplace, the pots and the fire to the states many years ago. Agreements were reached many years ago on how to share the available recipes in Congress between the states and the federal government. The sharing has become routine, written in law and nobody dares change this law without referring it to every state. In our case we still have left too many powers for the National Assembly in Nairobi to make laws that affect the food taken to the counties. A federal system of government will radically change this. Let me now come to the money and legal language. How many taxes can the counties collect? Not much. Locally raised revenue, even at its best, can hardly keep a county afloat. In India and the US, this is very different: States can survive on their own for quite some time if Washington or New Delhi misbehave. And both cannot misbehave that easily because strong law making processes are there to deal with them. Secondly, the states have their own versions of mini KRAs; the tyranny of the central KRA is minimised by the federal character of the KRA itself. So states can finance their own health and education systems. Just imagine a State University of Kisumu at Muhoroni, another one at Thur Dibuoro and yet another at Maseno in Kisumu county! In other words, federalism gives the counties (now states) much wider latitude to raise local resources, share national resources more equitably and finance local development much more effectively. Let me ask you, what does the minister for Education know about Kit Mikayi Secondary School in Seme subcounty in Kisumu more than the Kisumu Education executive? So why should Nairobi be in charge of education in Kisumu when the county (or state in a federal system) is in a better place to run the local school system than Nairobi? Federalism, not devolution, is the answer. But in reality, we know that Nairobi will not let go of the county that easily. The secret lies in what they call ‘tenders’, ie trading with the national state. Collecting our taxes and turning them into what we call ‘primitive accumulation’; the kind of wealth one derives from a political power position without working. Primitive accumulators — those are tenderpreneurs for you! A senator who, the other day, had to go to Bunge Sacco to borrow money to pay his mortgage, suddenly becomes a minister and buys a helicopter, a tea farm, a block of flats on Riverside Drive and a new Mac! Jesus Christ on a small scooter! This guy moves straight from Imara Daima to Muthaiga. Our taxes at work ,not his entrepreneurial skills! When we say we want our taxes to remain in our state so that we can develop locally, he will be the first to froth at both sides of the mouth, calling us chauvinists, tribalists and all kinds of ‘ists’ to make him look like a patriotic ‘nationalist’, while we appear like petty minions gnawing at the holy feet of the dysfunctional nation-state. The Lord God forgive me! Let this guy sink into the armpits of the foulest satanic monster of corruption till our Federal Republic of Kenya is born. I will tell you something, if I have not told you so already. The proposal for a federal system of government in this country is real. People may argue on how big the states should be, or how many states should be ideal in the federation, or which county should combine with which county to end up with ‘a more perfect union’ among us, but the logic is the same: federalism is the only viable way out of this political and constitutional crisis. Moreover, it sits perfectly with a parliamentary system of government, as it does in Canada.  You may raise some questions here and there, but do your shopping around for models internationally and you will come back to me, satisfied that I am right. And this has nothing to do with political party affiliations that prevail at the moment. Not at all. It is simply an idea whose time has come to ‘Okoa Kenya. Written in bold, black and white letters are certain principles that are completely fallacious in our Constitution. These are things such as “there are two types of government in Kenya, separate but interdependent” — an absolute lie.  A simple but idiotic lie that we must run away from as counties as quickly as possible by going federal. Look at it this way. The national government enjoys, without let or hindrance, all the functions performed, but meanly funded, by the county governments. Examples: health, rural roads, environment, water, fisheries, culture, you name it. We charge no extra money for the DCs and their employees using our roads, drinking our water, enjoying our traditional dancers on national days and they have access to our health services as they wish. But try getting the services of the police at your hour of need as a governor! Lazima upige magoti! As for the army, forget it: They will invade your county at their own pleasure when they determine it is necessary to do so. It is an absolutely an UNEQUAL relationship. We must run away from it as fast as we can by going federal if secession is a frightening concept. Do we have any control over how much money is spent by the national government? Zilch. Forget about the Budget Committee of the National Assembly. In the 12th Parliament, the Budget Committee behaved as if it was an arm of the Treasury with a brief to cut county funds.  Even the originally noble idea of the CDF has been turned into a bribery pot by the national government to make MPs allies of the national government, fighting the Senate like crazy in the allocation of resources to the counties. Schedule Four of the Constitution is very clear: It divides functions between the national and county governments. In other words, in the budgeting process, resources should always follow functions. They don’t.  While the counties have assumed all the functions that matter to the daily lives of the wananchi, the national government only deals with those things such as Foreign Affairs, which the mwananchi can go to bed comfortably without knowing what the Kenyan envoy said today at the UN. But deny the mwananchi water, food, health and the road to the market, utaona kilicho ng’oa kanga manyoya! So why do we stick to this abusive marriage as if we don’t have our parents — the people? Let us divorce and go back to our parents and seek a marriage that works. Let us go federal if we fear secession.