Bungoma activists are conducting campaigns against rape and other form of violence against women to mark 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence. The campaigns, which have roped in the police and media, will be geared towards reducing rampant cases of defilement and rape in the Mt Elgon region. Read: Bungoma nursery pupil defiled, mum fears gang committed crime The team, whose activities were launched at Cheptais police station on Sunday, will train members of the community on the dangers of wife battering, rape, and defilement. At the event, most women confessed that communities regard them as children who are not allowed to make any decisions. The campaign will target remnants of members of the Sabaot Land Defence Forces (SLDF) believed to be on a revenge mission following the 2007/08 operation to flush them out. Other issues evolve around reaching out to girls used by their parents to smuggle coffee to Uganda at the expense of going to school. 'Rebels for fighting GBV' Eunice Jepchumba, Mt Elgon Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson, said those targeted by SDLF remnants are normally told they are being punished for siding with the army. "We will also demystify the notion that having sexual intercourse with a virgin cures HIV/Aids. Most men believe in this act, hence the high number of rape cases." Jepchumba said they have handled 126 cases of defilement and rape this year alone but added they are now considered rebels by the community for fighting such cases.  "The cases are rampant in Cheptais, Chesikaki, Kopsiro, Kipsigon and Kapkateny," she said.  She cited the case of a standard two pupil, 12, who was raped overnight last Friday by a man who has two wives. The suspect, Pius Wanyama, allegedly waylaid the mentally ill girl while she was on her way from Uganda to sell coffee. "Her mother was warned never to report the matter to the police but we have rescued her and she is now in hospital receiving specialised treatment." The suspect is said to have escaped to Uganda but Cheptais assistant county commissioner James Namwamu promised to ensure he is arrested. Rural Women Peace Link director Emmah Mogaka warned communities against interfering with investigations to arrest rape suspects on grounds that it will bring embarrassment to affected families. "These cases are not being followed to the ends of justice since the women have been discriminated by men," she said. Moses Chebonya, Bungoma county director of gender, said they will train police officers on how to handle cases of violence against women and girls. The county has set up rescue centre to rehabilitate victims of defilement and rape.  Bungoma woman representative Catherine Wambilianga said another centre will be built at Chepkurkur early next year. She said the rescue centres will have medics, police, and peer counsellors to help the victims recover from trauma.  "They will also offer short courses at the centre such as tailoring, carpentry, catering, and computer packages and weaving." More on this: 'Break the silence': World starts 16 Days of Activism Against GBV Click here for the latest political news