 DID some political brokers from Nyeri county try to prevail upon Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga (pictured) to step down so that a by-election could ensue? Well. Corridors of Power is informed of a streak of night meetings that unsuccessfully attempted to tilt the political equation in Nyeri. It is reported that powerful political figures from the region were unhappy with Kahiga succeeding the late Governor Wahome Gakuru in accordance with the Constitution. “I believe my late Governor Gakuru went around Nyeri and picked the best man he believed would step into his place in case he would be absent,” Kahiga told his critics yesterday in an elaborate swearing-in ceremony preceded by copious prayers. A vocal former MP from Ukambani region is leading a intensive onslaught against a bid by Deputy President William Ruto to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. The former lawmaker has been holding night meetings with a number of opinion leaders from the Lower Eastern region to strategise how the region will field a presidential candidate in 2022. The caucus is gathering steam slowly and is looking at roping in Baringo Senator Gideon Moi as the Deputy President in the arrangement that could lock out DP Ruto. Call it political manoeuvres and out-boxing as the race for the 2022 State House race starts in earnest before the preceding one is completed. Only in Kenya! UNDER normal circumstances, political parties are known to hold primaries for all the elective seats, including those for governor, senator, woman representative, MP and MCA. It is usually the presidential candidate who is nominated automatically. Now, a vocal MP from Nyeri county is rumoured to be pushing for amendments to the Jubilee constitution. The salient issue in his amendment is to make the position of presidential running mate to be contested alongside the other five positions. The MP says only presidential candidates should have a direct ticket for 2022 and any contender should be left free to contest the seat of running mate. IS Knut going down the drain? The giant teachers’ union is in turmoil amid reports of a vicious infighting that has turned political. Jubilee political mercenaries and NASA troops are trying to outdo each other following the leadership crisis at the helm of the union. Officials said to be allied to secretary general Wilson Sossion – who was nominated MP by ODM – are said to be behind the push to retire union chairman Mudzo Nzili unceremoniously. The power tussles are likely to intensify ahead of the union’s Annual Delegates’ meeting slated for next month. Just who is fooling who in the renewed tug-of-war pitting Sossion against Nzili?