When he composed and arranged his timeless classic Safari ya Bamba in 1959, Stephen Ngumbao may not have had the vaguest idea that his song would become a symbol of he general paucity of good roads in the area at the time. Then a music teacher at Ribe Teachers’ College, he must have thought he was simply chronicling the day-to-day troubles he and fellow villagers in native Ganze had to go through to reach Bamba. But the internationally acclaimed song, has seemingly taken on a life of its own. It has had several versions performed by a number of choirs and choral groups such as the Safaricom Youth Choir and the Muungano National Choir, besides featuring in movies such as The Ghost and the Darkness. In the song, the trip to Bamba is described in very stark terms; a treacherous journey, full of hardship, a fact that residents will tell you was not helped by the desolate condition of the road that connected the two towns. Bamba, a remote outpost in Kilifi county, was also known to be a dry place, generally associated with biting hunger and overall penury, hence the line ‘safari ya Bamba ni machero (the trip to Bamba is hard work, requiring great mental and physical exertion’) All this is set to change fundamentally with the launch of a tarmacked road between Mariakani and Bamba. The road, which is about 75 per cent complete and into which the contractor is putting every effort, is emblematic of the transformative infrastructure development agenda aggressively pursued by the Jubilee administration. Started in May 2016 under the supervision of the Kenya Rural Roads Authority, the construction of Mariakani-Bamba road is being implemented under a project that consists of two roads. There is the 45km Mariakani-Bamba section, which starts at the Mariakani-Kaloleni road junction. It then passes through Guruguru market in Kaloleni constituency, before ending up in Bamba town, Ganze constituency. The second is the shorter, six kilometre Kilifi-Kiwandani Primary School stretch, which starts at the junction of the Mombasa-Malindi road and ends up at Bofa, in Kilifi town. The Mariakani-Bamba segment will be ready for commissioning by the end of the year. Early this year, during his State of the Nation address in Parliament, the President departed from the official script to render a stanza of the historic song, as he showcased the government’s achievements in transforming the road infrastructure. The eventual implementation of the project, which has been used as campaign bait by successive politicians at different rungs without actual fruition, ends five decades of rapt, but frustrated wait and hope by the citizens. To the residents of Kilifi, and especially Bamba, the new road means a slew of new trade and commercial opportunities, especially through more efficient transportation of farm input into the interior of Ganze and Kaloleni subcounties. There is also latent but real potential in improved market access for plant and animal produce to the key markets of Mariakani and Mombasa. Being the first stretch of tarmac in Ganze, the road will open up an area hitherto considered remote and difficult to reach, principally the towns of Bamba, Guruguru, Munyenzeni and, generally, the inland parts of Kilifi ,for socioeconomic development. Due to reduced transportation time, it is a harbinger of more social interaction and, by extension, opportunities for the residents of Ganze and Kaloleni subcounties and people from other parts of the county and Kenya. The net effect of a good road is the general improvement in the socioeconomic circumstances of the people, as the value of assets such as land, appreciate and investors come calling. An integral component of the project has been the construction of water collection pans along the road. This will greatly improve access to water, not just for human consumption, but also for economic activities such as irrigation-fed agriculture and livestock keeping, to meet the growing demands of nearby urban populations.   The writer is the Principal Secretary, Department of Infrastructure    