NASA leader
Raila Odinga Monday flew to the US for a series of high profile engagements
that insiders see as a diplomatic coup against Jubilee. Raila left the
country on Monday night, hours after the twin presidential petition
against President Uhuru Kenyatta was filed at the Supreme Court. It is Raila's
first trip abroad after the controversial repeat presidential election that was
marred by low voter turnout and violence. The election turned the global
spotlight on Kenya. Raila was
set to meet a section of congressmen. He will meet members of the
influential Senate and House sub-committee's on African Affairs. Today, Raila is scheduled to meet with directors and senior staff of House and Senate
Congressional Committee's at the seat of the bicameral Parliament, known as the Capital Hill. Raila's Nairobi
office is named Capitol Hill. “That trip is
unprecedented because no country in the West has congratulated Uhuru
since the repeat elections," a source within Raila's inner circle
told the Star. Tomorrow, Raila
will give a lecture at the Centre for Strategic and International
Studies. The centre is one of the leading policy think tank institutions
in the world. Raila's lecture, which will be webcast live on CSIS, is tittled: Overcoming
Kenya’s Political Crisis and Advancing Democracy, Rule of Law, and Stability. Raila's meeting with the congressmen is key because US policy decisions are normally made by the executive in collaboration with the Congress. The trip comes at a time when NASA has informally protested that US
Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec is allegedly misadvising Washington
on Kenya’s political realities. Godec and other ambassadors in Kenya have not commented
on the credibility of the October 26 repeat poll. NASA claims Jubilee took advantage of government
envoys and influential US lobbyists on the State payroll to skew the
country's political reality. The government has previously used the Podesta Group, an
influential Washington lobbying firm, to advocate for the country’s
interests with US policymakers and to improve Kenya’s image.