A High Court judge in Siaya listening to former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo’s petition against Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga’s election yesterday said one of them tried to bribe her. Judge Esther Maina said either party made advances to compromise her ruling on the petition, but she vowed not to be compromised. “I will not receive money from any hierarchy, advocate or colleague,” Maina said. Apart from challenging Rasanga’s reelection, the petition includes suing the IEBC and the county IEBC boss Ruth Khulundu for electoral malpractices. Maina shocked the packed court, saying they have information that either the petitioner Gumbo or respondent Rasanga has connived with their advocates to bribe her in a bid to influence her decision. She said that as a state officer, she would be the last person to agree to receive a bribe to influence her decisions and ruling. Maina told Gumbo and Rasanga, who were present in the court, to ask the emissaries allegedly sent to persuade her to return the monies given to them to execute the mission. She would be the first person to report the vice to the police and the EACC. Maina said no amount of intimidation would cow her from making an impartial judgement, saying those who feel disgruntled with her stand should speak to the authorities. “Go report the matter to the police, but you should not threaten the judge,” Maina said, to the bewilderment of the court. She told lead counsel for Gumbo, Ogutu Mboya, and that of Rasanga to advise their clients promptly on the consequences of attempting to bribe a judge. Maina adjourned the sitting until Monday next week. This is after the IEBC, through its lawyer Raymond Olendo, failed to produce all the data required by petitioner Gumbo from the KIEMS kit. It was the third time in a row the IEBC had failed to do so. Maina ordered the IEBC to produce the data by the close of business yesterday before issuing the data to the petitioner, who will print and reproduce copies for the court by Monday next week.