NASA leader Raila Odinga is planning a One-Million-Man march in Nairobi early next month as he starts a multi-pronged rebellion against President Uhuru Kenyatta. The march will be preceded by the inaugural convention of the People’s Assembly. The People’s Assembly will be a broad-based forum of elected leaders, civil society workers, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups. The Star has established that the opposition pushed the anti-Uhuru uprising to next month to allow the completion of the KCPE and KCSE exams. The KCPE candidates will finish their exams today. The KCSE exams will start on Monday and end later this month. Some analysts say the opposition’s rebellion against the government could plunge the country into uncharted waters and a perilous future. Raila has asked all NASA MPs to each ferry at least 3,000 supporters to Nairobi for the People’s Assembly march. The march is supposed to build momentum for a revolution against Uhuru’s administration. The lawmakers will work closely with their MCAs to rally opposition troops and backers into the capital city for the launch of pro-democracy protests. On Tuesday, Raila took NASA-allied MPs through the liberation concept. He urged them to back his revolutionary ideology to end what he called electoral theft in the country. “We have endured these injustices for too long. I know the next steps we are taking will be painful and taxing, but I want you to make sacrifices,” Raila told the MPs in the closed session. The ex-Prime Minister was joined by NASA co-principal and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to appeal to the lawmakers to support the movement. “We must be prepared to be on the right side of history. It is important, because history will judge us harshly if we let down our future generations,” he said. Raila had on Monday met his technical team to craft his “liberation” strategy. The opposition has warned that the People’s Assembly will continue to exist until a “legitimate” President is announced. Raila wants fresh elections in 90 days. In the next two weeks, the opposition will unveil a task force to examine systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political crisis. “We anticipate task force recommendations will include constitutional amendments to be presented to the People’s Assembly for adoption, and thereafter to county assemblies for ratification,” Raila said. The uprising will push for a fresh presidential election under a reformed electoral commission. Raila has already rejected the results of the October 26 presidential rerun. The IEBC announced Uhuru winner with 98 per cent of the votes cast. He garnered 7,483,895 million votes. The IEBC voter turnout at 38.8 per cent, far lower than in the August 8 General Election. After that poll, NASA petitioned the Supreme Court, to annul Uhuru’s victory. On September 1, the Supreme Court overturned the presidential election, citing irregularities and illegalities. Raila urged supporters to boycott the presidential rerun. “This election must not stand .... It will make a complete mockery of elections and might well be the end of the ballot as a means of instituting government in Kenya. It will completely destroy public confidence in the vote,” Raila said on Tuesday.