The Parliamentary Service Commission yesterday dismissed reports that MPs have yet to receive their October salaries. PSC secretary Jeremiah Nyegenye said the claims are untrue. He said salaries for all the 349 MPs had been channelled to their bank accounts on time. “MPs who have not received salaries? That is not possible. If there is one of them who has not received their income, then let me know,” Nyegenye, who is also the Senate clerk, said. Last week, a section of MPs expressed concern over delayed salaries since they assumed office after the August 8 General Election.  A legislator, who sought anonymity, said there had been delays in the disbursement of their salaries.  Another MP told the Star some MPs were mounting pressure on National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to convene a kamukunji (an informal meeting) to discuss the issue before they went on recess last week.  Starehe MP Charles Njagua said he has never bothered to establish the exact date when his salary was channelled into his account.  “I don’t follow up whether my salary has been wired into my bank account or not. I don’t know the exact date that the salary is deposited in my account,” Njagua said.  Another legislator said, “It’s true our first salary was delayed, but I’ve not checked my account this time to verify whether it [the cash] is there or not. What I know is that there was a delay in the previous month.”  Members of the 12th Parliament earn Sh621,000 per month — down from Sh710,000, which their predecessors earned.  In August, former PSC commissioner Gladys Wanga said the Sarah Serem-led Salaries and Remuneration Commission had humiliated them by slashing their salaries and allowances.  “There is a mission to demean the legislative arm of the government. This is a mission to reduce MPs to beggars and take them back to the Nineties, when they used to beg for handouts to be able to perform their duties in the constituencies,” the Homa Bay woman MP said.  She trashed the gazette notice and said the SRC failed to evaluate MPs’ work accordingly before effecting the pay-cut. 