Kenya will play host to a unique competition when the 64th edition of the World Ploughing Championship comes Nakuru. Ngongongeri Farm in Egerton University, will be the venue from November 27 to December 2. Two Canadians, 22 year old Jay Lennox, the reigning Canadian conventional ploughing champion and 41 year old Tom Evans, the reversible ploughing champion will dig in for the world title during the six day meet, being held for the second time in Kenya in 22 years. So far, 40 countries have confirmed participation in a game of machine resilience on the farm. The last time it was held in Kenya was in 1995. Only South Africa and Kenya participate in this event from Africa. Both Lennox and Evans are competing in the World Championship for the first time under coach Daryl Hostrawser who has been ploughing in competition events since 1966. He has been a competitor in the World Championship three times and has coached Team Canada for the past six years. Jay Lennox became the Ontario Junior Ploughing Champion in 2014 and last year captured his county’s conventional ploughing title. In 2016 Tom Evans became the Canadian Champion. Several days have been set aside for Jay Lennox and Tom Evans to adapt to the climatic and soil conditions in Egerton. The Canadians will arrive in Nairobi next weekend, and head for Egerton in readiness for the competition. They will also use the FMD workshop in Nakuru hooking up their ploughs and hydraulic controls to the two Massey Ferguson MF 4708 tractors which have been provided for the competition by FMD before participating in the official practice sessions. The Kenya Ploughing Organization was established in 1996 under the Agricultural Society of Kenya to organize national ploughing contests and help raise the standards of seed bed preparation. The main objective is to organize national ploughing contests in which ploughmen compete in demonstrating their skills in good seed bed preparation while at the same time, serving as educative forums for local farmers.