Bishop Cornelius Korir had diabetes and hypertension, which may have caused his death. Phillip Anyollo, chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, said the illnesses were detected late. Doctors had started managing the condition before the bishop’s death at his home on Monday. “The health problems were not detected early. He spent several days in bed,” Anyolo, the Homa Bay bishop, said. No postmortem will be done. Korir was to go for specialised treatment at Karen Hospital, Nariobi on the morning he passed away. A flight had already been booked. He was found dead by priests who had gone to help him prepare. The burial has been rescheduled for November 11 at the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret. A funeral service will be held at Eldoret Sports Club before the burial. The body is at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Farewell Home. It will be moved to the cathedral on the eve of the burial for a night viigil. Korir’s family members travelled to Eldoret from his birthplace at Sugutiet village, Bomet . They described him as they family’s and community’s pillar. His elder brother Raphael Kipsoi and sister Pauline Mosonic the bishop had told them he was unwell. He had told them he was going to Nairobi for treatment. “My brother wanted the best for everybody. He didn’t care about one’s tribe, class or status. He was so passionate about peace and unity. He always gave us wise counsel as a family,” Kipsoi said. Mosonic said early in life, the bishop depicted traits of a unique person. He disliked disputes. “He has made peace all over. He initiated many projects at home in the community”, she said. Anyollo said daily prayers are being held. Archbishop Anthony Muheria will celebrate a special Mass at the cathedral today. Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo and other attended prayers in Eldoret on Tuesday. The cathedral where Korir will be buried is 600m from St Mathews Pro-Cathedral where fiery ACK Bishop Alexander Muge, who died in an accident in 1990 was buried. The two are remembered as great leaders.