A multi-billion Container Freight Station business in Mombasa has suffered a major blow after the Court of Appeal restrained its managers from reclaiming part of the Indian Ocean. Makupa Transit Shade Limited had intended to invest Sh500 million towards expanding its cargo handling facility at Makupa Creek. They obtained several development approvals from various government agencies between 2012 and 2013 to reclaim about nine acres of land stretching into the ocean. The expansion plan was approved by the NEMA and the defunct county council of Mombasa on December 17, 2012, and January 14, 2013, respectively. But on October 27, 2016, the county director of planning and architecture suspended the approval just as the reclamation was about to commence. The county officials based this on grounds that the CFS failed to comply with some of the conditions of the approval. It was argued that the completion of the project would result in blocking the natural flow of the Indian Ocean at Makupa Creek. The county further argued that the construction would have altered the geographical status of Mombasa from an island to a peninsula. Makupa Transit Shade then moved to the environmental and land court seeking injunction orders against the suspension. The firm later withdrew the case on February 9 after a preliminary objection was raised by the county citing the jurisdiction of the court. The court heard that the respondents still filed an application in the same court seeking leave to apply for judicial review remedies prohibiting the suspension. On February 10, Justice J. Omollo granted the leave sought, which was to operate as a stay. But the county filed an application seeking that the stay order is vacated and that the leave is set aside. In its argument, the court was told that the CFS had enjoined the wrong party and it ought to have instituted the proceedings against the Mombasa county government. In response, Makupa Transit Shade CEO David Killoran deposed that an order of stay could not be issued in respect to the order dated February 10. "The intended appeal was not argued because there was no basis to fault the exercise of the Judge's discretion," he said. "Equally, the applicant had not demonstrated that the intended appeal would be rendered nugatory in the absence of the orders sought." County lawyer Paul Buti submitted that there was no evidence that the respondent had been exempted by the court from following the laid down appellate procedure. He said that the consequence of this was that the environmental and land court had no original jurisdiction to deal with the dispute. "There is a real likelihood that the dispute would extend to third parties which would unnecessarily complicate the matter." "This is because the respondents would be required to apply for licenses from the government institutions before commencing operations on the suit property," Buti argued. The court was further told that importers and exporters desire to use the facility would ultimately enter into contractual agreements with the respondent. "Even if there is a possibility of restoration of the suit property to its original state in the event the appeal succeeds, such a reversal will have substantial financial implications which in the end would be met by the taxpayers," Buti added. Judges Alnashir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome ruled that unless the substratum of the suit property is preserved, the intended appeal would be rendered nugatory. "We are alive to the fact that there is an option of the court ordering restoration of the suit property to its original state in the event the appeal succeeds. Nonetheless, we believe the costs of doing so will be colossal taking into account that the respondent in its pleadings averred that the project cost an estimate Sh0.5 billion. Equally, we are unsure of whether the suit property would be capable of being restored to its original ecological state," they ruled on Thursday.