The ultimate goal of education is to impart to children numerical, literacy and practical skills for them to realise their potential. Since 2000, significant progress has been made to attain universal education, but sadly many children, especially girls, are still out of school. Global reports show that the number of out-of-school children in Africa continues to soar. The 2016 Unesco Institute for Statistics report indicates that about 263 million children and youth are out of school, with Sub-Saharan Africa carrying the mammoth share of these. Girls are more likely than boys never to set foot in a classroom, despite all the efforts and progress made over the past two decades. According to the UIS data, nine million of the 15 million adolescent girls who will never get the chance to learn to read or write in primary school live in Sub-Saharan Africa. What these statistics show is that there are pronounced challenges — documented and undocumented — that hinder Africa from achieving SDG Four: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” The likely scenarios are: Lack of access to education due to poverty and gender stereotyping, as is the case in most African communities that prefer to educate the boy over the girl. Secondly, those girls that enrol in school may drop out due to gender-based violence, teenage pregnancies, over-reliance on the girls to do household chores, long distances to school and misconstrued beliefs among communities on the place of the girl. Other challenges out-of-school children face include low absorption capacity for all children of schoolgoing age, lack of interest in long-term sustainability of programmes, insufficient funds for alternative learning-training programmes, and little coordination across the different government agencies. Moreover, even after enrolling these girls to school, there are no sustainable strategies to ensure they remain. For instance, when teenage mothers are readmited, teachers may need gender-responsive skills enabling them meet girls’ needs. Gender-Responsive Pedagogy is an instrumental model in diluting gender stereotyping in the classroom and at the school environment. GRP for teachers has been tested in close to 15 countries in Africa by Civil Society Organisations, among them the Forum for African Women Educationalists, and has been adopted in Malawi and Tanzania. To address these challenges, governments must call for multi-stakeholder and concerted efforts to resolve the three key dimensions of the problem: Curb premature dropping out, develop remediation programmes for those reentering and alternative learning for average youth being integrated in education or training. What really counts in advancing girls’ education is for them to enjoy their right to education and to remain and feel safe in school. Governments need to embrace gender-responsive policies and commit to implementing them to the letter. They must invest in data collection, especially gender disaggregated data collection.  This will put them in an informed position to develop relevant policies and programmes to attain quality education and gender equality.   The writer is a Communication and
Advocacy assistant at Forum for
African Women Educationalists, a pan African NGO present in 33 African countries, including Kenya, that aims at promoting gender equity and equality in
education in Africa by fostering positive policies, practices and attitudes
towards girls’ education.  