A Nakuru court has blocked attachment of Bomet government property by auctioneers over statutory deductions of Sh4.6 million awarded to two former employees. The court had ordered the Bomet government to pay the two former executives Sh8.56 million in damages, without making any statutory deductions. “It was erroneous for the county government to subject the damages to statutory deductions. The fees was to be paid as ordered by the court,” Justice Stephen Radido ruled. The county complied with the judgment and paid out Sh8 million to the two former employees. But it deducted Sh4.6 million as NHIF, PAYE, HELB fees. The two, former Lands executive Patricia Lasoi, and her former Agriculture counterpart Elizabeth Langat had sued the county government for unfair dismissal in 2012. The county, through lawyer Rogers Mugumya, told Justice Radido it complied with the judgment, awarding Sh8 million to the two former employees, but deducted Sh4.6 million as NHIF, PAYE and HELB fees. “The damages equivalent to 12 months salary, amounting to Sh4 million for each employee, were paid by the county to their personal accounts,” Mugumya said. The lawyer told the court the execution of the order to auction the property was irregular. He said the county government was ambushed and property should not be attached by auctioneers.  On September 23, 2016, Justice Radido ordered that Langat and Lasoi be compensated for damages after they were unlawfully dismissed in August 2015. County secretary Jonathan Soi in an affidavit said attachment of property by auctioneers would lead to loss of property, including car, chairs and tables. Lawyer Bernard Kipkoech for the claimants, said the matter was concluded and the damages amount was paid directly to the petitioners, not the advocate and “I didn’t forward the details of the petitioners to the county”. He said the Sh8 million was awarded as damages for unconstitutional violation, not salary arrears and no deductions of PAYE, HELB or NHIF should be deducted directly.