Is Kenya’s most hotly contested presidential election now behind us? There are those who believe that it is, and then there are those who swear it was a no-contest. The trouble is that the latter are the majority. How then did we get here? Where did the rain start beating us, that a candidate who was seemingly popular according to opinion polls is now clutching at straws of legitimacy? The country is divided across the middle. This is not rocket science. Just stand close to a group discussion anywhere in the country and the topic will be the election and invariably the legitimacy or illegitimacy of the presidency. President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta, a decent man by any standards, appears to have fallen afoul of a group of youthful hardliners that has run roughshod over the interests of the majority of Kenyans by forcing an election on October 26. Was it out of a phobia of gaining the dubious distinction of becoming the first one-term President in Kenya, or was it as a result of being held hostage by a powerful cabal of hardliners? Why did Uhuru run despite the withdrawal of the candidacy of opposition leader Raila Odinga? Was this a poisoned chalice? Has Uhuru knowingly or unknowingly imbibed hemlock? The country is more divided than it has ever been in its independent history. There are now calls for secession, whilst others are waiting in the wings to swear in the opposition leader as de facto President. Kenya may have avoided pre- and post -election violence in 2017, but the country is at its worst ever. In fact, there is a threat to dissolve the unit known as Kenya. Peace, in the famous words of Albert Einstein, is not merely the absence of war. “Peace is the presence of justice, of law, of order.” The official opposition NASA claims to be demanding justice and fair play in election conduct. The electoral agency claimed inability to meet NASA’s “irreducible minimums” on electoral reforms, citing time constraints. Kenya went into the October 26 election in the shadow of the disgraced and annulled August election. To again quote Einstein, “Insanity is doing the same thing all over again and expecting different results.” A partisan IEBC may be our final undoing as the Supreme Court had threatened to annul the second election if constitutional reforms were not implemented.  Jubilee is now busy attempting to justify its Pyrrhic victory brought on by 37 per cent of the total registered voters, whilst NASA is claiming victory for restraining over 60 per cent from voting. It is imperative that Uhuru, the current de jure President, reaches out to the opposition to save Kenya from disintegration and chaos. He must exhibit statesmanship by relegating Jubilee hardliners to the periphery and listening to the voice of reason. It is no longer about the never-ending contest between the Kenyatta and Odinga dynasties, but about Kenya and the terrible legacy he would leave if the country were to disintegrate. It is time that we reexamined our winner-take-all Constitution of 2010 and replace it with a more inclusive system that accommodates all. The current one is cruel and relegates losers to a five-year political Siberia.  Religious institutions and civil society have reached out to the President in this regard, although his office is yet to issue an official statement. It’s time for our leaders to positively dialogue in the interests of the present, future and posterity. Upon reaching consensus ad idem, they should traverse the country preaching a gospel of peace, unity and reconciliation as the position on the ground is volatile. Judge Johann Kriegler of the Independent Review Commission warned us to never ever hold elections without an independent electoral commission in place for a minimum of 24 months.  We defied Kriegler and tempted fate with an infant six-month commission! It’s by pure divine grace that Kenya remained intact.