Women make about half of Kenya’s population. Although Kenya is a democracy, women remain disproportionately represented in decision-making institutions and processes. Their participation has been limited to a handful representatives in the National Assembly, the Senate and the county assemblies. Women’s marginalisation in leadership has been attributed to sociocultural perceptions and practices that emphasise the superiority of men and the inferiority of women. This has negatively impacted on women’s participation in the sociopolitical and socioeconomic arena. Stiff competition among electoral candidates has often resulted in violence during campaigns, particularly between the followers of the individual candidates and/or their respective clans/tribes. Northeastern has been a hotspot of such violence. To avert further violence communities in this region adopted negotiated democracy. The system operates within the traditional governance institutions, whereby the clans' councils of elders negotiate for the available elective posts. Ideally, the clans share the available positions amongst themselves then the elders appoint and endorse individuals to occupy the post(s). Negotiated democracy, whose aim was to avert inter-clan conflict, was practised in the 2013 and in the 2017 general elections. The system has been successful in averting inter-clan violence. However, negotiated democracy has systematically excluded women from political leadership since they are not represented in the councils of elders and no clan wants a woman to represent them. No clan will endorse a woman to their alloted positions. The elders' councils are also reluctant to endorse or support women candidates. This locks out any prospective women candidate who may have better leadership skills and abilities. This systematic marginalisation has denied women their human and constitutional rights for political representations, which is in itself a form of structural violence. Women's interests and concerns are not taken into consideration in the elders' decisions and recruitment. Women have only been able to predominantly access the affirmative action seats entrenched in the 2010 Constitution. It is the elders who decide which women are appointed to these positions, further reaffirming their interests and power over the women, thus maintaining the status quo. Negotiated democracy is a process that was conceived, nurtured and implemented by elders, with support from male elites, to deprive women the right to participate in a democratic process as aspirants. Interestingly, negotiated democracy not only targets potential women aspirants, but it is also a conduit to micro-manage women as voters. Women are expected to vote in line with the decisions of the elders and the elites. Since most are assisted voters, they are monitored by the elders' agents in the polling stations. We have seen an increase in divorce rates among the women who defy elders. This challenge also comes into play in county government appointments. The governors are unable to comply with the constitutional two-thirds gender rule as the councils of elders decide who is appointed. Again, no clan wants to be represented by a woman. Thus men take the lion’s share of appointments, marginalising women further. Negotiated democracy is not the only factor marginalising women in Northern Kenya. Others are; cultural traditions and practices such as marriages. Women do not get leadership opportunities in the clans into which they married. Unmarried women are not given opportunities as their clansmen feel they might marry outside their clan and take the post to her husband's clan leaving her paternal clan with none. Another is a patriarchal value system where sexually segregated roles and ‘traditional cultural values’ work against women’s advancement, particularly their participation in politics. Women are perceived as weaker, hence cannot execute certain responsibilities, including leadership. The continuing emphasis of women’s primary roles as mothers and housewives helps to restrict them to those roles. d) Religious misconceptions about women’s leadership. Religion has been used to suppress women’s leadership. There is need for a complete change in the social order in Northern Kenya to enable participation of women in leadership. This includes transforming cultural norms and traditional practices that undermine women in contravention of the Constitution and International instruments such as the Universal Declaration on Human Rights of 1948, Cedaw, SDGS UNSCR1325, among others. It is worth noting that the Somali community in Northern Kenya is ready for change in an effort to enhance sustainable development. The community elected their first woman MP, Sophia Abdi Noor. Mary Wambui Kanyi and Fatuma M Mohamed Gender and governance experts wambui0308@yahoo.co.uk and fatuma.shukri@gmail.com)