Rival matatu associations' fight over the control of the CBD could jeopardize plans by the county to decongest the city centre. Matatu Owners Association and the recently formed Association of Matatu Operators (NCBD) are engrossed in a tug of war over management of the city. NCBD has accused MOA of the traffic snarl-ups experienced in the city, and sabotaging its efforts to decongest downtown. But MOA says the new outfit is an 'amorphous group' formed by self-centered individuals who what to reap what they did not sow. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, NCDB chairman Jimal Hassan attacked MOA, accusing the association of being behind congestion and anarchy in some streets in the city. He said though his association has ensured there was free flow of traffic in the streets, PSVs owned by members of MOA have been frustrating its efforts to sanitise downtown. “So far since the operations started, we have managed to reduce the jam along Moi Avenue, Tom Mobya, Ronald Ngala and Mfangano Streets,” Hassan said. “However, there have been some challenges along Accra Road, Latema and Temple Roads because saccos or operators along these streets and members of MOA are sabotaging the operations,” he said. He claimed MOA vehicles drop off and pick up passengers right in the middle of the road and make u-turns at undesignated places. But MOA chairman Simon Kimutai defended his association and instead accused the new outfit as a group of people who want benefit from MOA members' investment. “This is an amorphous group formed by busy bodies who are out to fight me as a person. They are not investors. These are the cartels who have been exhorting money from our crew,” he said. “We have invested millions of shillings in this industry and we cannot just allow people to come from nowhere to try to manage us,” he said. Both the organisations hired traffic marshals following Governor Mike Sonko's orders that they regulate themselves to ensure members comply with the law and road use regulations. Sonko initially gazetted a ban on matatus from the central business district from September 20, but suspended the ban for one month to give owners time to regulate themselves. The Governor had asked matatu crew to stop obstructing, making u-turns in non-designated areas and causing nuisance by playing loud music and being rowdy.