European envoys have objected the secession call by NASA leaders at the Coast and said it will causing more tension. They have cas​t​ aspersions and said the drive for self-rule risks plunging the region into chaos as environment will be more tensed. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi's Amason Kingi are pushing for self-determination. They are citing political and economic marginalisation​. T​he duo is being assisted by host of opposition MPs from the region. On Monday an almost five-hour meeting between the envoys and the two governors was held at Whitesands Hotel to discuss the move in detail. British High Commissioner Nic Hailey, France ambassador Antoine Sivan, European Union envoy Stefano Dejak and Danish ambassador Metre Knudsen attended. Though other agendas were also tabled, the Star is reliably informed the secession talk took centre stage. After the meeting, Hailey said: "From our perspective, it is not helpful to talk about secession. The rhetoric may rise tension than calm it down." He said the disintegration will not be helpful. Hailey said the country needs an urgent national duologue to address​ the dissenting voices. "The country must have genuine conversation that will lead to improved development and prosperity," he said. Dejak said the call for secession was triggered by "strong feeling of exclusion". "Now we have to strengthen inclusion, and devolution. Logic inclusion can work best," he said. But the two governors were unmoved. ​Kingi said: "We have our own position which we are determined to pursue." It has emerged the meeting did not results to a common ground but rather left behind unresolved concerns. Joho said secession talk will rage and invited all, including the envoys, to air their views again. "You can oppose it but tell us why your are opposing it. For us we are more concerned about local and international legal framework to achieve the end," he said. Joho said the reports that chaos will erupt and "foreigners" chased if they sustain they sustain their push does not hold.