It’s time those committed to electoral justice in Africa knew they are fighting a lone war. The partnership with Election Observation Missions to prevent electoral fraud is no more. In fact, there is closer protection of African despots by EOMs since the advent of multiparty in the 1990s. With every election, EOMs abdicate. This is the reason for the shock and trepidation when an incumbent is defeated or a brave Supreme Court annuls an incumbent’s victory. Scholars are beginning to warn progressive forces not to rely on EOMs because they’re compromised. In a blunt February essay, Martin Ronceray writes: “With the systematisation of election monitoring in transition countries since the end of the Cold War, not inviting EOMs has become a suspicious move, rather than the opposite. As such, autocrats have much to lose by not inviting EOMs because this act would send the message that their commitment to democracy is only rhetorical and does not stand scrutiny. By comparison, the ‘costs’ of hosting an EOM can be reduced dramatically — through democratic concessions, advanced methods of fraud, public image management as well as the co-option of critics. It is rare for EOMs to record and report fraud while impartiality is secondary when, as a rule, EOMs always operate in a country on invitation by the host government. In short, despots know the EOMs ‘main goals are the legitimisation and the enhancement of public confidence in the electoral process, hence co-option. In a reversal of goals, the EOMs fear democratic regime change as unpredictable and prefer to protect the incumbency in the belief of stability. They are guided by the economic interests of sponsoring countries rather than the lofty promotion of democracy. Underlying this about-turn in Europe is the phenomenal rise of populist nationalism sentiment, an ideology shared by ethnic sectarian pursuits of African despots. For those wearing blinkers, the EU democracy promotion policies are about spreading and enforcing power interests. At their best, the EOMs are public image tools and at their worst, channels of “double standards in the use of ‘carrot’ and ‘stick’ with developing countries.” Ronceray says “A blunt but relevant way to put it is the following: Africa and its people serve as a means through which national and institutional self-images are developed and defined.” Certainly the West’s behaviour shows commercial and security- related interests influence responses to breaches in human rights and democratic governance. The jury is still out on whether the presence and actions of the EOMs contributed to strengthening democratic institutions, building public confidence in electoral processes, helping to deter fraud, intimidation and violence, or helped institutionalise the same in Kenya.  However, there is little to be gained condemning the Carter Centre’s boisterous legitimisation of the August 8 election before the Supreme Court annulment threw egg on its face. The EU oscillation on Kenya’s election is proof enough of the clash between the initial desire to promote democracy and the current demands to preserve “stability”. The former is about credible elections while the latter is protective of incumbency. The EU mission’s obliqueness is instructive; after an embarrassing outing on the August 8 election, the EU remains non-committal on the repeat October 26 presidential election. Despite harkening that the election was compromised by a “dangerous political stand-off, uncontested election and assaults on institutions damage Kenya’s democracy”, it ended up apportioning responsibility to “actions by both sides of the political divide”. Worse, the EU advisory was lame by being mum on credibility of the election, yet nervously calling for dialogue, presumably on fraud, intimidation and violence! It’s a wonder how dialogue on assaults on institutions such as the Supreme Court on the eve of the election will remedy the outcome of the election.  Furthermore, perception of status quo preference remains after the EU relapsed into admonishing the victims to address “grievances over the electoral processes” through judicial channels, despite complaining about attacks and intimidation of the Judiciary. The EU dilemma is exacerbated by its dual role as a
global actor in financing elections complementary and election observation. This
duality constitutes the EU erratic behaviour and erosion of electoral justice.
With respect to Kenya, did financing the IEBC through the UNDP compromise the EU's
ability to ensure the election was credible through helping deter fraud,
intimidation and violence? If on one hand it acknowledges an assault on
institutions complimenting credible elections, can the EU claim it strengthened
democratic institutions given a threadbare IEBC or that it built public
confidence in election boycotted by over 80 per cent of registered voters?  On this, the prejudiced role of the AU is worth a
footnote. An observer mission impartially assesses all aspects of the electoral
process, its constitutional and legal framework, the delimitation of
constituencies, the registration of voters and candidates, the training of
election staff, voter education, media coverage, the campaign and the
preparations for Election Day, as well as the appeals process. On Election Day,
observers visit polling stations to observe the opening, voting, counting and
aggregation of results. But the person who helped craft the AU EOM has
disowned its capacity and preparedness. Stephen Chan decries the fact that AU election observation is decades out of date. “I
helped design the first African election observation mission in 1980. The
world’s transformed since then, but they’re still using the same old model,” he
warns. It wasn’t therefore an act of cowardice that the AU turned its back on
Kenyans. It couldn’t go against a seeming AU covenant to protect fellow
incumbents.     Communications, publications and conflict management specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com