Ever since the fraudulently predetermined presidential “selection” of October 26, I have been asked by a number of people if indeed Bungoma county has shown signs of moving towards the Jubilee Party. This is because the purported tally of this disgraceful process appeared to allot to Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto a substantial parcel of votes from the county. As the MP for Togaren, which is in Bungoma, and the secretary general of Ford Kenya, a NASA affiliate and the dominant party in this region, I feel I have to clarify this issue. The Jubilee Party and Ruto’s URP before it have always had some support in Bungoma, largely due to the Mt Elgon constituency, which has cultural links with the greater Rift Valley. And I would add that when Uhuru and Ruto campaigned here, it was not with the hope of retaining the Mt Elgon vote.  What they were trying to win over — and what they thought was a potential swing vote — was the Bukusu community, who make up the majority of voters in Bungoma. If you only went by what was visible on TV, you would have thought that they were making progress. There were all these rallies filled with people in red T-shirts and caps — Jubilee’s trademark. But those of us on the ground had a very different impression. We saw for ourselves the buses that ferried these “Jubilee supporters” from outlying regions. We were told that there was a fixed rate of payment for everybody who attended.  And in the end, what did it all achieve? Nothing at all. Outside of Mt Elgon constituency, which had all along been in Jubilee (as it is their constitutional right to be) the rest of Bungoma stayed away from the polling stations as advised by the NASA leadership. If I was to give my assessment of the true turnout during the sham selection on October 26, I would put it at 17 per cent, overall, and just 12 per cent if you exclude Mt Elgon. This is all that was achieved after all that massive expenditure of public funds, in so-called campaigns. One of the first foreign leaders to congratulate Uhuru after the August 8 election was US President Donald Trump. He then had to quickly withdraw his congratulatory message after the Supreme Court invalidated the presidential election, citing illegalities and irregularities.  However, Trump and Uhuru have something in common. They suffer from a crisis of legitimacy, arising from questions on how they really got elected in the first place. In the US, a Special Prosecutor by the name of Robert Mueller is investigating the role of Russian agents in supporting Trump’s election. In Kenya, we cannot expect a “Special Prosecutor” to solve our far-greater problem of electoral fraud. What we need is a fresh presidential election, and one that is free, fair and transparent in every way. We are a country in which there is video evidence of a Jubilee MP assaulting a returning officer in the attempt to coerce him to boost the tally for Uhuru in the region, which is one of his strongholds. We can only guess how many other such incidents went not captured. If Kenyans are to restore their faith in democracy, and if we are to get over the current crisis of legitimacy faced by Uhuru and Ruto, then we must have a fresh presidential election that takes on board the “irreducible minimum” of electoral reforms proposed by NASA. In such an election, I can assure you, Raila Odinga, and his running mate, former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, will emerge the winners. I say this with confidence since we have seen how Kenyans remained steadfast and by a clear majority of no less than 6o per cent turned their backs on the pre-determined presidential selection process, which was a huge mockery of democracy.   MP for Togaren