The Kerio Valley Development Authority has begin to look for land to resettle 800 families to be displaced by Sh63 billion dams. The dams are Arror and Kimwarer. Last Thursday KVDA invited bids for
land. Managing director David Kimosop said the two projects will cover 4,000 acres. Kimosop said
KVDA will set aside Sh6 billion to resettle the residents in the
next six months. He said the
Arror dam, which is expected to generate 60MW of electricity, is a
joint venture between two Italian companies, CMC di Ravena and Itenera. It will be financed through a loan from the Italian government. “Construction
shall commence once the affected households have been resettled. KVDA is now seeking to acquire land from
private individuals and institutions to resettle locals because this is a
priority,” Kimosop said. Arror Dam will cost Sh35 billion and Kimwarer Sh28 billion.   Kimosop said the
projects will supply water for irrigation to drier areas of the Kerio
Valley as well as produce at least 80MW of electric power. “We are
projecting that more than 100,000 acres of land will be put under
irrigation. Fifty kilometres of road will also be constructed alongside
the dams,” he
said. “Some 100,000 households will also get water for domestic uses.” Kimosop said
the projects will minimise importation of power and save the country the foreign exchange. The resettlement is expected to end the tussle between KVDA and the Elgeyo Marakwet government. In September Kimosop wrote to Governor Alex Tolgos asking him to stop undermining the projects. Tolgos had last faulted KVDA for undertaking activities without proper consultations with all stakeholders. In his letter, Kimosop demanded Tolgos specify leaders or groups that had been left out. Tolgos had also accused the authority of scheming to forcibly take over
private land, but Kimosop denied it. "We ask you to justify your allegation
that KVDA wants to take people's land by force for the project," read the letter dated September 20. Residents have welcomed the projects and asked politicians to stop interfering
with their implementation.  “KVDA is
working hard to implement the project for the good of the people. We should
support them,” Kerio Youth Association chairman Joel Kimaiyo said. Locals in
Kipsaiya, where Arror Dam will be located, have protested against the project, but Kimosop
said the authority will reach out to everyone opposed to the initiatives.  