Tourism CS Najib Balala has announced a raft of measures including the strengthening of internships, aimed at kick-starting service delivery in the hospitality industry. He said that internships must be strengthened to give learners hands on experience adding that there is need for learners to explore their experience beyond borders. “There are 40,000 Kenyans who work in Dubai and 50 per cent of them are in the hospitality sector,” he said during the inaugural graduation ceremony at Boma International Hospitality College, adding that the hospitality sector in Dubai comes to Africa, specifically Kenya and poach workers, and retrain them until they are polished. “Workers there are well polished and this improves service delivery which in turn improves customer experience,” he said. Balala announced that the curriculum and how various were offering their training must be looked into if the industry is to reap big from tourists trooping into the country. Balala said he will reach out to stakeholders to discuss how the industry can be revitalised to tap into the tourism industry. During the occasion, 300 students graduated from Boma International institute with a touch of Switzerland training. The Institution, owned by the Kenya Red Cross Society, opened its doors in May 2015 after partnering with Business and Hotel Management School in Switzerland.  KRCS secretary general Abbas Gullet said they started the college to provide competitive courses in an international learning environment. "We partnered with Business and Hotel Management School in Switzerland which allows our undergraduates to undertake their final Bachelor year in Switzerland," Gullet said. The institution offers diploma in Hotel Management, Culinary Arts, Food and Beverages, Rooms Divisions and Culinary Operations. The Principal Gianfanco Astori said plans are in place to expand the school to accommodate the growing appetite. The students are drawn from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Zimbabwe,Ghana,Nigeria, Madagascar,Mayotte, China and USA.          