In my last piece I started a series of articles about opera, the ultimate art form. Combining it all - visual art, music, literature, singing, and even dance, opera engages all our senses. Four main aspects of an opera: libretto voices, music and the visual aspects form its core.   Librettos (texts of the operas) tell stories of love, revenge and power where passions are confronted with extraordinary situations and heightened feelings. Voices, ranging from soprano, mezzo-soprano, contralto (for women) and tenor, baritone and bass (for men), are generally associated with types of roles: an experienced seductress, for example, would be sung by a mezzo soprano, a naïve character by soprano. Music is at the centre of any opera. By playing with rhythms, tones, melodies, and nuances, composers create atmospheres that other art forms alone cannot create. And the visuals — costumes, make up, lights and stage design — complete an opera. More than just illustrations, opera visuals represent concepts and ideas, transcending stories and actions to other times and situations.  My next opera is Der Ring des Nibelungen in the production of the Royal Opera House in London.  Der Ring des Nibelungen (The Ring of the Nibelung) is a series of four operas composed by German Richard Wagner from 1848-74: Das Rheingold (The Rhinegold), Die Valkure (The Valkyrie), Siegfried, and Gotterdammerung (Twilight of the Gods). Richard Wagner is one of the most significant figures in the history of opera. Through his music dramas he introduced extraordinary innovations that transformed the course of music. His works remain an exhilarating challenge for any opera house, none more so than his 15-hour epic Der Ring des Nibelungen. One of the world’s great and charismatic opera singers play the main characters at the opera: bass-baritone Bryn Terfel, stars as Wotan, the King of the Gods, and bass John Tomlinson as Hagen and Hunding. The plot of the series revolves around a Magic Ring that grants the power to rule the world. The ring is forged by the dwarf Alberich from the gold that he stole from the maidens of the river Rhine. Wotan steals the ring from Alberich, but had to hand it over to the Giants in payment for his youth. Alberich curses the ring: “Men shall not enjoy their acquisitions”. Wotan schemes to regain the ring, spanning generations, but all ends in ruin. Wotan’s son Siegmund is killed by the Hunding for seducing his wife; Wotan kills Hunding in revenge soon after. Wotan’s grandson Siegfried wins the ring, but is killed as a result of the intrigues of Alberich’s son Hagen. In the attempt to recover the ring, Hagen kills his own brother, but then drowns. Finally, Siegfried’s lover returns the ring to the Rhine maidens, but commits suicide. All is destroyed. The characters deserve their punishment: they all possessed the ring at some time but failed to return it to its rightful owners. Bryn sings outstandingly portraying confidence of command and force born of awareness and experience: “I can do what I will. I will do what I must.” But his voyage of self-discovery ends in ultimate resignation and inner decline. “He is a failed God,” says Bryn. John Thomlinson ‘paints’ Hunding, “a real thug” as he calls him, and Hagen in massive, strong and dark colours, with clarity that strikes the ear with impact.  Listen to one of the most grand and revolutionary music, The Ride of the Valkyries, of Der Ring des Nibelungen: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FPcrqkViZKw   Alla Tkachuk founded MASK (Mobile Art School in Kenya), contact alla@mobileartschoolinkenya.org