Any citizen can decide to swear
in himself as President and call his or her local priest. How is that
treasonous? It would have no legal effect. We know what the legal
requirement for an effective act of the assumption of the Office of the President
requires: If a citizen undertakes a process that has none of those
underpinnings it will have no legal effect. Whoever is talking of treason may
just be looking to make a mountain out of a molehill, but there is certainly
going to be a political statement being made. Any call to characterise the second
swearing-in as treason is nothing more than a political statement. The
determination of Petition Nos. 2 and 4 of 2017 by the Supreme Court of Kenya
delivered on Monday affirming the election on October 26, 2017, of His
Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta marks the close of the 2017 presidential
elections. It represents the fulfillment of
an important aspect of the election process and must be respected by
all citizens of Kenya.  However, it is deeply disturbing
how violence has been a feature of the period of the concluded elections. It
should never be the anticipation of any Kenyan that an election providing the
opportunity for a citizen to exercise his or her political rights brings with
it the prospect of losing property, of sustaining injury or of dying. In the past week in which this
cycle of violence has not ended, the leadership of the National Police Service
cannot escape blame for precipitating a needless confrontation.  A notification of intention to
hold an assembly and demonstration march duly received by the office of the
Inspector General of Police was discarded in bureaucratic obfuscation and the
demonstration march then violently dispersed with police officers captured in
photographs stoning passing motorists at the scene. The right to assemble and
demonstrate guaranteed by Article 37 of the Constitution requires the police to
facilitate and not to obstruct its safe and proper exercise. The writer is the LSK President