The home advantage that Zoo Kericho would have craved going into their penultimate Sportpesa Premier League match this weekend against Thika United has once again been deprived due to unavoidable circumstances.  Match was supposed to be played at the Green Stadium in Kericho but has instead been moved to Kisumu’s Moi  Stadium as the venue has been booked for other meetings. The club’s head coach Sammy Okoth said despite having been denied two home games, the team is ready to compete anywhere and collect maximum points in the remaining two matches. “We have been disadvantaged twice of late because we are going to play two home games away. Last week, we played against Gor Mahia in Afraha Stadium, Nakuru and this weekend, we are set to be in Kisumu. But despite this, we are up to the task and we’re confident of collecting maximum points away in Kisumu,” Okoth added. Okoth further revealed that preparations among his lads are in top gear as they seek to win the fixture and subsequent boosting of the team in the league standings. He said his lads are in good form and the right mood, adding they are hoping to collect six points in the remaining two games before the top-tier league’s curtains fall. Zoo lock horns with Sofapaka in the last game of the league on November 18 month. Okoth is also optimistic of winning the fixture. Zoo lie in position 13 on the table with 37 points, a step out of the relegation zone while Thika United are staring relegation on the face after collecting 35 points and are number 16 on the table standings with two games to go. Elsewhere, eight teams will participate in the Rift Regional finals of the Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom youth tournament tomorrow and Sunday in Narok. The boys and girls teams qualified to the regionals finals after a total of 759 games were played in North, Central, South, Eastern and North Western Rift. Over 1,500 teams participated in the Rift Region games which began with the group stages on September 9. “We are happy to get to this leg of the tournament and wish all the boys and girls well as they prepare to contest for Rift region supremacy. Already, we have seen promising talent with one of the players, Oscar Kenga being called for national duty in the National under 20 team,” said Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa. In the girls semifinals Tar Tar from west Pokot will take on LYSA from Naivasha while Bomet’s Chesoen will face Iten United from Keiyo. The Boys semifinals will see Kapenguria heroes from West Pokot play Kapsoit from Kericho while Nakuru all-stars will square it off Mwiruti from Uasin Gishu. The winning teams from Sunday’s final will take part in the grand finale set for March next year.