Two days after
Suna East MP Mohamed Junet told the National
Assembly that ODM will retain Raila
Odinga’s brother Oburu Oginga in
the list of nominees to the East Africa Legislative Assembly, a section of ODM
legislators are very unhappy with the decision. They believe, in all fairness,
the position should be given to someone outside the Odinga family. The MPs, who
were having a drink at a hotel not far from Parliament, were overheard saying
they will “have to do everything possible” to persuade Oburu not to apply for
the position. === Does Jubilee lack
better legal tacticians to advise them on how to scuttle NASA’s ever-changing
political strategies? Many people, including NASA leaders, political analysts
and lawyers, are wondering why the Jubilee leadership is taking the opposition’s
formation of People's Assemblies so casually, even equating them to mere Bunge
la Wananchi. The critics have been heard severally warning Jubilee not to wish
away the proposed assemblies in the NASA-controlled counties without looking at
the impending dire consequences. One of the critics warned, “I see some mocking
and laughing at this new buzzword ‘people's assemblies’. Read and understand
what the end game is and how it was applied in Nepal, Greece, Spain, Tunisia,
Egypt, and Burkina Faso. It is the basic condition of revolutionary democracy.
It is serious stuff.” === Who is fronting the
Kenya National Union of Teachers Nyeri branch officials to push for the speedy
swearing in of deputy governor Mutahi
Kahiga as the county's fourth governor? The top seat was left vacant after
the death of Governor Wahome Gakuru, but leaders of the teachers' union are now
demanding that Kahiga be sworn in without hesitation. Kahiga was former Knut
executive secretary in the county and commanded huge support within the
teaching fraternity. The officials' threat to hold peaceful protests if 'one of
our own' is not sworn into the high office has received criticism by Kenyans
who argue that the family should be given time to mourn and bury the late
county chief, who commanded respect countrywide. === A former ODM
legislator from Nyanza who lost his seat due to his close association with
Jubilee and President Uhuru Kenyatta,
Corridors has learnt, is cursing the decision by the IEBC not to hold the repeat
presidential election in the four Nyanza counties. The lawmaker had
successfully drawn up a handsome budget to ensure at least each constituency
voted in the rescheduled exercise after IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati called off the polls, following a spate of violent
demonstration on October 26. Had the four counties been given another chance to
vote, the MP would have pocketed a cool Sh50 million.