Opera is the ultimate art form.
Combining it all — music, literature, singing, and design, opera engages all
our senses. Four aspects form its core. Librettos
tell stories, stories of passions and heightened feelings. All text in
opera is sang. Voices — ranging from
soprano, mezzo-soprano, contralto (for women) and tenor, baritone and bass (for
men), are associated with types of roles. Music,
its rhythms, tones, melodies, and nuances, create the atmosphere that other art
forms cannot create. And, finally, the visuals — costumes, makeup, lights and stage design — do not just illustrate the
stories but represent the opera’s concepts and ideas. Eugene Onegin is a lyrical opera created by
famous Russian composer Pyotr Tchaikovsky that was first performed in Moscow in
1879. The libretto, written by the composer himself, is based on the novel in
verse ‘Eugene Onegin’ of the great Russian poet Alexander Pushkin whose
great-grandfather was African. The story is about a ‘superfluous
man’ Eugene Onegin, who lives to regret his blasé rejection of a young Tatiana’s
love and his careless incitement to a fatal duel with his best friend Lensky.
When Tatyana meets the dashing Onegin, she believes that he is the hero of her
dreams. But he coldly rejects her. Bored, he flirts with her sister Olga,
outraging her fiancée and Onegin’s only friend, Lensky. Lensky challenges
Onegin to a duel, and gets killed by Onegin. Trying to escape his guilt, Onegin
goes travelling. When he returns, he finds Tatyana is the elegant Princess, the
wife of Prince Gremin. Onegin falls in love with her. Though she still loves
him, Tatyana refuses to betray her husband. Onegin is the embodiment of the ‘superfluous man’, a selfish man with no aim or role. He feels intellectually
and morally superior to the common people, but at the same time spiritually
weary, profoundly skeptical and unable to correlate his words and actions. Indecisive
and passive, he is unable to engage in effective social action, struggles to
find his place in society, and cannot set up a foundation for his life. He is prey
to ambition, delusion and disillusion. Powerless to correct the injustices around
him, he drifts: “I am never satisfied. I grow used to sorrow as easily as I do
to pleasure and my life gets emptier every day.” He yearns for freedom, yet
finds himself bound by the conventions of society. Lacking the will for
creativity to fight for change, he ends up in surrender. Internationally acclaimed
baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky sings
Onegin with his ‘caramel-coloured voice that floats like a butterfly and stings like a bee’. When I painted him in his dressing room at the Royal Opera House,
I asked Dmitri to ‘reenact’ Onegin for me, but he just stood there. “Dmitri,
you are giving me nothing,” I said. “I am giving you Onegin. He is nothing.” Director of the opera’s production at the Royal Opera House, Steven Pimlott,
believed that “Dmitri invested in the role exactly the right quality”. He made
us care about an arrogant and terrified ‘superfluous man’.   Listen to Dmitri Hvorostovsky singing Eugene Onegin,   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbMaR1qCet8   Alla Tkachuk founded MASK creativity
charity and the MASK Prize creativity competition, contact alla@mobileartschoolinkenya.org 