  A cash crunch at the Treasury could deny President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing-in ceremony the usual pomp and colour associated with such a high-profile national fete. There could be less wining and dining for invited dignitaries during Tuesday’s inauguration ceremony at the Kasarani Stadium. Military officers have already secured the stadium and are rehearsing from the venue ahead of the fete.   The Star yesterday learned a team tasked with planning Uhuru’s swearing-in is “struggling” to get funds from the Treasury. The government has gazetted Tuesday as a national holiday for Uhuru’s swearing-in. Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe told the Star on the phone the cash crunch is attributed to the state’s inability to collect enough revenue following a long period of politicking. “Officers in charge of protocol and the Committee on Assumption of the Office of the President are really crying. Up to yesterday evening [Wednesday], they were struggling and Treasury does not want to hear about money,” Kiraithe said. He said the team planning Uhuru’s inauguration and Treasury CS Henry Rotich are yet to agree on the sum, but added the figure will not go beyond Sh300 million. “The committee is still negotiating the budget with the Treasury. The committee is struggling to do everything which would enable the event definitely to meet the basic standard,” Kiraithe said. He continued, “I know by today all the figures will be available. When a head of the state is invited or friends of Kenya, it is an expenditure in itself. Treasury is doing cost-cutting and activities like entertainment could be cut.” Kiraithe said cost-cutting will enable Uhuru’s administration to channel funds to key projects, including road construction. Parliament allocated a Sh9.8 billion budget for the presidency to spend during the 2017-18 financial year.  A total of Sh8.7 billion is to cater for recurrent expenditure, while Sh1.1 billion goes to development activities. The Sh9.8 billion allocation was an increase by Sh1.02 billion compared to the last financial year.