The effects of climate change in arid and semi-arid areas are making farmers shy away from maize farming and opt for pulses. Pulses include beans, green grams, cowpeas, pigeon peas, njahi, chickpeas and lentils. They are drought tolerant. Announcing the national food security status last month, Agriculture CS Willy Bett said many farmers have reduced their acreage under maize because of drought and emerging pests like the fall armyworm.  This, he said, is likely to reduce this year’s expected maize harvest by about 25 per cent. According to the East Africa Grain Council, the climatic conditions in arid and semi-arid areas are favourable for growing pulses. Five years ago, Raphael Mutunga, the secretary of Kitisa Farmers’ Cooperative Society, grew maize in his three-acre farm in Makueni county and his harvest was so little, it could not cater for his family. These days, thanks to green grams, he can now harvest about four bags weighing 90kg from an acre. Mutunga harvests are four times higher than what he did with maize. During a field visit to his farm in Makueni, Mutunga said the price of a kilo of green grams is two times higher than that of maize. “While a kilo of maize will cost Sh40 or less in the local market, a kilo of green grams will fetch a farmer between Sh70 to Sh80. I once sold a 90kg bag of green grams at Sh10,000 and with such an income, I can buy three to four 90kg bags of maize for my family’s needs,” he said. Gerald Masila, the EAGC chief executive officer, said for the past few years, uptake of pulse farming has increased in arid and semi-arid areas. “Many farmers are opting to grow pulses as they mature quickly, taking 70-120 days, unlike maize, which takes three to four months to mature depending on the variety. The other advantage is that pulses are less affected by aflatoxin and they are high in protein,” he told the Star yesterday. Masila said the market prices for pulses are stable, unlike those for maize, which often fluctuate depending on supply. “Though the seed system for pulses is not well developed, pulses are the new cash crop for farmers in arid areas. They have good returns and would have a bigger impact on the country if grown in the Galana Irrigation Project,” he said. 