Fifteen houses were torched and five families left homeless on Monday in Mirere, Matungu, as boda bodas avenged the death of their colleague. The attackers said five people living in those houses were responsible for the death of Silas Mondo, alias Toto. He was last seein in their company, the riders said. The deceased’s family said he left home for a drink with friends on Friday evening.  Later that evening, unidentified people knocked at the gate. When the family went to answer, they found Mondo unconscious by the roadside. The family thought he had too much to drink and put him in bed to sober up. When he didn’t regain consciousness after several hours, the family took him to Matungu Hospital. A doctor recommended transfer to Kakamega Referral Hospital because his condition was worsening. He died on Saturday. Preliminary examinations showed he had marks on his neck. On Monday morning, area OCPD Paul Kiprono visited the scene of crime. He urged the youth to keep the peace as police investigate. His pleas were ignored. When Mondo’s body was brought back from the mortuary at around 6pm, angry youths crried it to each of the five suspects’ homes.  They cursed each suspect and burnt their houses. However, the suspects had already fled. Moses Were, chairman of boda bodas at Mirere stage, said the people who killed Mondo are known. He said a witness identified one of the suspects at a drinking den. Residents said the suspects’ houses were burnt to teach other criminals a lesson. “They strangled Mondo. Our culture allows us to burn their houses,” a resident said. “In the Luhya culture, if you kill someone, you’re forced to leave and your house is burned down,” an elderly man said. “Toto was a good boy. He gave us free rides when we didn’t have enough cash to pay him,” resident Catherine Nadienyi said. Senior assistant chief Hassan Shiudu, who arrived after the incident happened, urged the youth to be peaceful.  “The suspects have not been found guilty of the murder. It is unfortunate that their houses were burnt,” Shiudu said.