More than 30 people checked in for treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital following protests in the city during the weekend. On Saturday, 28 people came to the hospital and 24 were discharged after treatment. Four were admitted with multiple gunshot wounds but officials at the facility were under strict instructions not to release the information to the public. Doctors said they are out of danger. “We managed to treat all the victims well and the situation is under control,” the doctor and nurse told The Star team. The Star reporters saw two people undergo surgery on Sunday morning at Room 10 located next to the Emergency and Causality room. They were on stretchers in white aprons covered with blood spots. Another young man with a bloodied bandage on his leg was waiting alone on a stretcher and seemed to be in a lot of pain.  Read: Five looters 'killed by mobs' during NASA protests - police He was being closely monitored by the overwhelmed medical teams. The three arrived Sunday morning as the hospital struggled to contain the situation. Two unconscious victims of the Friday police random shooting were
admitted at Ward six on the sixth floor meant for people with broken
bones.  The Star could not locate where the other two were admitted to the hospital facility.  Ward six has six rooms and it's supposed to accommodate six patients but its currently accommodating more than 15 people. Many patients were admitted following violent NASA demonstrations on Friday. The hospital's CEO and other officials were not on duty on Sunday. But a doctor said, "Tomorrow they will be here and give you the full report on the
people injured, their names and anything you want. For us, we are not
allowed to speak to the media.” Officials said the number of patients is expected to rise as victims continue to seek medical attention. Police and NASA supporters engaged in confrontations on Friday as they marched to receive their leader Raila Odinga who had jetted back from the US. Five people were reportedly stoned to death by mobs as they looted during the demonstrations. On Sunday morning, five people were found murdered in Riverside, Ruaraka constituency. Police fired tear gas as residents demonstrated against the killings. Nairobi police spokesperson Japhet Koome said the killings were a criminal act and were not ethnically instigated. Raila has alleged that 15 people were killed by police on Friday. Read: Police plan 'biggest, heaviest' deployment for Monday Supreme Court ruling