The government has been urged to waive the costs of medication for non-communicable diseases. Speaking while marking world diabetes day in Kitale town, the Kitale Diabetes Association (KDA) chairperson Stephene Musyoka said the costs of meeting medication for diabetes is expensive making most diabetics to fail in continuing with medication hence endangering their lives. He mentioned diabetic type one which is hereditary as the one whose medication is costly and drugs are hard to find. “Sometimes you visit the chemists and you find that insulin is not available,” he pointed out. He said the insulin that diabetic patients need to stabilise their condition costs more than Sh. 700 and one need to use it once per month. He explained that insufficient drugs for meeting costs of medication for diabetes have forced most diabetic patients to seek alternative medication from herbalists. Musyoka noted lack of information on whether one suffers from diabetes and those who are diagnosed with it relating to witchcraft as challenges that diabetics face. He said diabetes is a condition and its complications are the ones that make one sickly noting that once diagnosed diabetics are able to manage the condition such that it does not lead to complications that can destroy their body organs. He said once they have known they are diabetic, patients can live longer if they follow directions from the medics. The chairperson said the association has more than 1000 members in Trans Nzoia who are diabetic but live healthy lives since they adhere to medication and follow the directives given by the medics. A diabetologist and physician at Kitale County Referral hospital Dr. Evans Manuthu said diabetes falls under emerging chronic diseases whose cost is expensive but can be managed. He said that currently, he is taking care of 700 diabetics at the Kitale County Referral Hospital while more than 60 other patients are taken care at seven satellite clinics in the County. "In October alone this year we had over 1000 diabetic patients visiting the hospital, we know there are so many patients since it was a time when nurses strike was on," he noted.   Dr. Manuthu pointed out that the burden of diabetes disease is when patients show up at the hospital with complications. He noted that complications of diabetes range from eye disease, foot disease, heart failure, Kidney disease among other complications, He said diabetes is caused by sedentary lifestyles occasioned by lack of physical activities and consumption of junk foodstuffs. Dr. Manuthu urged residents to go for screening so that they can understand if they have the disease or not in order to live healthy lives. "Its very unfortunate that the number of people who know they are diabetic is lower than those who do not know," he said.