Did a section of Jubilee supporters from Nyanza pocket facilitation money but refuse to travel to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inauguration in Nairobi on Tuesday? Well, Corridors learnt the supporters - mostly old men - refused to travel to Nairobi after disagreeing with their coordinators on the method of payment. The coordinators insisted on giving the supporters only half the facilitation with the rest to be paid after the ceremony in Nairobi. The almost 250 supporters flatly rejected the arrangement, citing past experience when they were ferried to the city and left stranded in Nairobi with organisers not reachable on phone. One of the supporters told Corridors after endless arguments with the coordinators, they decided to walk home with half the facilitation they had already been given. ***** With the 2017 election done and dusted, the focus now shifts to the 2022 election. Jubilee schemers have already started sketching the roadmap for the race where Deputy President William Ruto will be the automatic Jubilee flagbearer. NASA is aware of the plans and has told Corridors that there are strategies to approach opposition governors from Western and Coast regions for support ahead of the 2022 General Election. The governors are supposed to disrupt secession activities in Western and Cost. Our moles around the top official told Corridors that he was in touch with the NASA county chiefs with calls almost daily. In fact, an aide to one of the governors told Corridors his boss - a governor from Western Kenya allied to NASA - has been promised the position of a running mate should all things flow well. ***** A self-proclaimed supreme governor in Mt Kenya is said to be a jovial man as he expects a child from his side woman. The governor, said to be closely linked to the the lady, who also works in the county, was overheard at a Nairobi hotel telling his friend that he will fly the lady abroad for delivery and then give her time off her busy schedule in the county to wean the baby. It is said his wife, the county First Lady, sheds tears secretly for being with him from grass to grace, but her hands are tied. ***** The Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission has launched a probe into the activities of two companies supplying foodstuffs to the Ministry of Education’s School Feeding Programme. In the three-month probe, detectives have sought to know who the directors of the companies are and what they have been supplying to the ministry. The investigation has also attracted the attention of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Click here for the latest political news