A court has ordered a cross to be removed from a statue of the late Pope John Paul II in France, prompting fury in his native Poland. France's highest administrative court ruled last week that the cross, in the northwestern town of Ploermel, must be taken down due to strict secularism laws separating church and state. The local Catholic diocese in Vannes deplored the move, saying it "risks exacerbating the tendency to make Christian symbols ever less visible". The court move raised the hackles of French right-wingers and the far-right, while the conservative government in Warsaw suggested moving the statue to Poland. "The Polish government will try to save this monument to our compatriot from censorship and we will propose moving it to Poland," Prime Minister Beata Szydlo said Saturday. The statue, by Russian artist Zurab Tsereteli, was erected in a square in Ploermel under an arch topped by a cross following a 2006 decision by local authorities - a year after John-Paul II's death. The National Federation for Free Thought, a non-profit organisation, took the issue to court alongside two local residents. The court ruled that the cross breached France's 1905 secularism law, which forbids religious symbols from being displayed on public monuments.  Meanwhile, Pope Francis has confessed that he sometimes nods off while praying and claims saints too have been known to grab some Holy shut-eye. The 80-year-old Argentine head of the Roman Catholic Church often closes his eyes for long periods while bowing his head in prayer. "When I pray, sometimes I fall asleep,' he said in an episode of a Catholic TV2000 television programme published Tuesday on YouTube. "Saint Therese did it too," he said in reference to a 19th-century French nun, adding that Christians were called to feel like children lying in their fathers' arms - a place conducive to napping, he implies. Francis radiates energy and enthusiasm when he meets people, but his expression turns very grave when he prays, often bowing his head and closing his eyes. The pontiff values his sleep and is tucked up in bed each night by 9pm - though he rises with the lark at 4am. His fast-paced schedule is only possible because he gets his head down for a snooze after lunch, Vatican sources say.