For most secondary school students sitting KCSE exams that began on Monday, all that is at stake is a place in higher learning institutions. For those caught up in the crossfire of cattle rustling, though, just going to school is a matter of life and death. Cheputel Boys High School was established in 2005 in West Pokot, at a former battleground between the Pokot and the Marakwet. “The school was set up so that children from the two communities could learn together and enhance cohesion,” principal Isaya Pendou told the Star. However, the ceasefire did not last. If anything, the school has only become a magnet for attacks. While peace prevailed, it had 200 students from both communities. But after clashes reemerged, the student population has gone down to 45. Pendou said bandits have been targeting students and teachers since it was established. "The bandits have been targeting my life since I was posted to this school," he said. "In my office, I have two bullet holes. The bandits shot at my office but lucky enough, I was not in at the time. In the office, I have 20 used cartridges that I have collected in the school compound after bandits shot at the school." He said the staffroom, form three classroom and his office have bullet holes after cattle rustlers attacked the school. Pendou said the school used to perform well and had enrolled students from other parts of the country, but this year, they didn’t admit any form one student since security has deteriorated. He said cases of cattle rusting reemerged last year and parents feared to enrol their children. “After parents learned that the bandits were targeting our school, they never admitted their children who had been selected to join the school,” Pendou said. The bandits once shot at the form three classroom during agriculture lesson, but luckily nobody was injured, the principal said.   FUTURE IN DOUBT When the Star visited the school, the classroom still had bullet holes and form one and two classrooms were deserted. In form two, there were dusty lockers of the students with their books still intact. The students left the school hurriedly and never picked anything. “They aimed at the teacher, who was writing on the board, but the bullet missed him and hit the wall. Another bullet passed through the roof of the classroom, tearing the iron sheets,” Pendou said. “The incident forced us to close the school for some time as we waited for peace to prevail in the region.” This year, he said only form three and form fours returned to school after things cooled down. Form twos are yet to return. The school has 45 students — 20 form fours and 25 form threes — out of over 200 students. Pendou said he doesn’t know the future of the school, since for the past two years, they haven’t had form one and two students to sustain its continuity. As to why he’s not been scared away, the principal said he is passionate about helping the two communities live peacefully, and wants to educate the youth to abandon outdated cultural practices. Pendou said he hopes the school will not collapse, since it has teachers deployed from outside the county who have not left. “The teachers want to see the students excelling in life. That’s why they have not left,” he said. He said primary schools have been also affected since there are a high number of dropouts. Chesegon Primary School, which was their feeder school, now has 70 pupils, down from 300.   EXAMS AT STAKE Insecurity along the county’s borders has forced the county government to come up with affirmative action. It has introduced free primary boarding schools at the border. Governor John Lonyangapuo said the school will help transform the community by reducing illiteracy and increasing enrolment, retention and transition of pupils to secondary schools and other tertiary colleges. He said the schools will target boys and girls who never had the privilege of going to school. The schools will be set up in Akulo, Apuke, Kanyerus, Katikomor, Nauyapong and Sapulmoi. Knut West Pokot executive secretary Martin Sembelo has called on the government to beef up security in schools along the borders of West Pokot, Turkana and Elgeyo Marakwet counties and the Uganda border ahead of the exams. He said the political mood and challenges in the country are not favourable, so schools need maximum security to protect students and teachers during the exams. “Candidates need to have a conducive and good environment for them to sit their exams well,” Sembelo said. He asked the government to deploy more security officers. “We need at least two police officers in every school. We are fearing because without security, no learning or development will take place,” Sembelo said. The executive secretary asked teachers along the border to preach peace among students.  “Teachers should start preaching the importance of unity and peace at a younger age for the betterment of our counties. We need residents to live in peace and harmony and we will not accept few criminals to disrupt peace,” he said. Sembelo said insecurity is making border residents live in fear, scaring away teachers and students. “Cattle rustling has hurt peace in many marginalised counties in the North Rift for many years, and it must come to an end,” he said.   BUSINESSES HURT Insecurity has also led to the closure of several markets, making farmers incur losses. The county has also lost millions of shillings in revenue. Cheputel market was closed for a year and the county has lost over Sh2.5 million. The county used to collect over Sh50,000 on market day as revenue, but since the market was closed last year, the county has not been able to collect the cash. The market was closed after business people migrated to other places, after the area became a battlefield for cattle rustlers.  Residents have asked the government to beef up security and open the market to enable them sell their farm produce. Hotel owner Joseph Lomuke rued a loss of customers. “I cook food in my hotel but no one eats. I have been incurring huge losses because traders from Kitale and other major towns don’t come to collect mangoes,” he said. Lomuke said the market was busy on markets days and they used to sell over 300 goats and many tonnes of mangoes. Boda boda rider Festus Oketch said their business has also been affected, since they cannot move freely. “Bandits lay ambush on the road, and they have killed many people, making us fear for our lives,” he said. A district Peace Committee member, Priscah Limatuya, said mango farmers and traders are making losses, as traders from other regions stopped visiting the area. She said many people and livestock have been killed, and called on the government to beef up security.   PEACE PATROLS Lonyangapuo visited the area and reopened the market. He called on residents from both communities to embrace peace for development to be realised. The governor said the two county governments are working together to end insecurity. “We need a ceasefire on banditry and cattle rustling,” Lonyangapuo said. Lonyangapuo urged the national government to relocate the Anti-Stock Theft Unit based at Keringet to Chesogon. “We need the security personnel to be patrolling here. The camp at Keringet should be relocated to Chesegon since peace has prevailed along Trans Nzoia, West Pokot and Uganda border,” he said. Peace ambassador Tegla Loroupe called on the government to empower reformed warriors to shun banditry. “We want youths to use their talents,” she said.   Pokot Central subcounty deputy county commissioner Geoffrey Kithinji called on residents to shun alcoholism as it contributes to insecurity.