Africa
is undergoing a momentous transformation. Though governance by self-rule enters its fifth decade in most nations, the democratic gains
achieved through sweat and blood are being rolled back. The
advance and retreat of democracy in Africa has resulted in a new medley of
political systems. Popular uprisings have swept away autocracies, such as that
of Blaise Campaoré in Burkina Faso, or blocked their consolidation as in
Senegal under Abdoulaye Wade. However, such movements have been derailed by
determined autocrats as exemplified by Uganda’s
Yoweri Museveni, and most recently, Kenya’s Uhuru Kenyatta.  Africa
has not journeyed here alone. The fascinating chapter of this epic story is the
role being played by nations in the West, which for far too long have been the
bastions of the rule of law and accountable governments—the allies most African nations chose to walk
with at the Cold War era.  Today,
the same Western allies have turned a blind eye to their cherished democratic
credentials and embraced the emerging authoritarian regimes in Africa. The
sudden shift in policy can only be explained by the unravelling business
climate, where the traditional development partners are locked in a fierce economic
competition with nations whose financing is not pegged on strict conditionalities of
democracy and good governance.   Epochs
when a visiting IMF or World Bank delegation used to grace the front pages of major
dailies seem to have gone. Their press releases were second to our laws in
matters interpretation. Today the
Bretton Woods Institutions’ pronouncements, however grave they seem to be, are
often met with contemptuous response. The expansion of liberal democracy has
slowed in the continent just as it has globally. This dénouement can be
attributed to the rise of China; the entrenchment of illiberal systems; multiple
conflicts in the Middle East; authoritarian nationalism in Russia and the harmonising
of market economies with non-democratic governance.  Most
African countries have elected the move to the East economic policy, where
emerging lenders are reforming trade rules with the global south. As opposed to
Western donors their aid is devoid of conditionalities and favours country
policy preference. As the West sought to make G8 and G20 exclusive economic
clubs, countries such as China, India and Brazil embraced Africa with yearly
forums ready with concessionary and development loans.  For
fear of losing traditional markets in Africa to emerging lenders, most Western
nations have eased their post-colonial era conditions of free, fair and
periodic elections, respect for human rights and the rule of law to adopt any basic government
provided that it guarantees stability and an enabling business environment.   The silence of the West is appalling in the
wake of countries such Rwanda, Uganda and the DR Congo, which have tinkered with their
constitutions to guarantee incumbents their long stay in power. Their push for
Kenyans to accept the recent presidential elections is quite telling.  Citizens
and action groups challenging the status quo have been abandoned at their hour
of need. They should reorganise by prescribing homegrown solutions to our
governance glitches. The reconfiguration of power in Africa, while usually
favourable to authoritarianism, is not necessarily so.  With the emerging critical mass
of resistance in Kenya, domestic and external coalitions can work creatively to
help build state systems that are authoritative, effective and accountable. The
blending of order, democracy and inclusive development is a path still
available, with appropriate external assistance, to the people of Africa.  Legal officer, ODM   