Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua yesterday accused the court of being compromised after she lost her bid to overturn the election of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. She pledged to take her challenge to the Court of Appeal. Waiguru and her supporters broke into song and danced outside the High Court in Kerugoya. “This is a great win and I thank God for his favours,” the former Devolution CS said. High Court judge Lucy Gitari dismissed Karua’s petition challenging the election, saying  it failed to adhere to election petition rules and the Election Act.  She called the petition“fatally defective, hopeless and could not stand on its two legs”. She also ordered Karua to pay suit costs of Sh10 million. The ruling follows an application by Waiguru, to strike out the petition.  It was filed by lawyers Kamotho Waiganjo and Paul Nyamondi, who said it was defective and an abuse of the court process. Justice Gitari said Karua failed to file affidavits as required by law, making the petition “fatally incompetent”. She said the suit cannot be salvaged, even if the court tries to consider public interest of the petition.  “The public interest of the case should not override requirements of the rules and law. The rules must be adhered to as the Act clearly stipulates,” she said. Karua accused the judge of being compromised. “Is it a coincidence that today’s ruling is well covered by a battery of journalists? The supporters of the third respondent are out there celebrating even before the ruling is read. Did they know the outcome of today’s ruling?” she asked after the ruling. Karua requested a copy of the judgment, saying she will challenge it in the Court of Appeal. The judge defended herself, saying only she and her trusted secretary  knew the contents of her judgment before it was read. Judge Gitari said it was unfortunate the petitioner claimed court colluded with the respondent. She said the matter was aboveboard and she followed the law to the letter.  “On journalists, I’m not able to control that because they always cover the proceedings  and today case was no exception,” Gitari said. Waiguru, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and their supporters celebrated. 