The government will invest Sh104 billion in water projects in Western to boost food security and control flooding. Water and Irrigation CS Eugene Wamalwa yesterday said the projects will increase the areas under irrigation and ensure sugarcane zones are covered under new schemes. “We want to ensure there’s enough drinking water, be able to produce enough food, control the perennial floods, especially in Budalang’i, increase the area under rice irrigation and start cane irrigation,” he said. Wamalwa said cane irrigation will improve sugarcane production and provide livelihoods. Sugarcane takes 18 months to two years before it is harvested, but with irrigation, this period could be reduced and farmers’ incomes improved, he added. Wamalwa spoke at Maji House, Nairobi, during the signing of a Sh10 billion contract for construction of the Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project in Busia. The government has also partnered with Egypt on a Sh500 million pilot project to irrigate 100 acres of cane at Sangaro Institute, Bungoma. Wamalwa said the first phase of the Lower Nzoia project will cost Sh5 billion and it will involve construction of irrigation schemes and Budalang’i dykes to control floods caused when the River Nzoia swells and bursts due to heavy rains. “The Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project phase one will benefit 20,000 people, including 2,100 households. An additional 8,000 people will farm the scheme as hired labour in Busia and Siaya counties,” he said. “Another 50,000 people from neigbouring areas will benefit indirectly through linkages to the scheme activities and output.”  The second project covering Upper Nzoia — known as the Kakamega-Bungoma Multipurpose Water Project — will cost Sh24 billion and will supply water for irrigation and power production. The third project — the Upper Nzoia Irrigation Scheme — will cost Sh10 billion, the CS added. The fourth will be the Mt Elgon, Bungoma, Busia Water Project. It will cost Sh50 billion. Wamalwa said Kenya has partnered with the Turkish government to fund the projects. The fifth project — the Mt Elgon, Trans Nzoia Water Project — will cost Sh10 billion. “These mega water projects are aimed at improving food security and increasing the areas under irrigation in the region,” he said.   