D uring a recent trip to Diani, we saw so many monkeys milling about. In fact, one time when we were at our beachfront hotel room, one snuck in through the windows and made a clean break with our box of tea bags, much to my companion’s dismay, because, like most Kenyans, she absolutely loves her tea.  One might wonder what the monkey did with the bags. Did it boil up a fresh pot of hibiscus tea from its abode nestled someplace in a coastal forest? There are so many monkeys on the roads that we began to wonder if there were any organisations looking out for them. After asking around, some residents pointed us to the Colobus Conservation and Primate Centre, where we quickly booked a tour. We were met by conservation manager Kelly Martin, who proceeded to take us round and tell us more about the centre and its activities. I had seen a lot of bridges set up above the roads while skirting through Diani on the back of a tuk tuk, and Kelly explained that this was some of the centre’s work. The bridges help the monkeys cross the roads safely, hence avoiding electrocution and being hit by oncoming vehicles. Monkeys are also really cute to keep as pets when they’re still young and fun to play about with, but then they grow older, develop canines and become aggressive, and they are likely to be abandoned by their human keepers at this stage. Former pet monkeys are, therefore, rehabilitated at the centre and taught the necessary skills to survive in the wild before being released. We got to see how they choose what to eat (flowers, seeds, leaves, fruits), interact with each other depending on hierarchy, make friends with previously released monkeys (as well as other wild ones around the centre) and much more.  This, of course, means that the centre also conducts research and is open to having volunteers help them achieve their objectives of creating awareness among locals, thereby protecting both the primates and the remaining patches of their indigenous forest habitat.   Location: Diani, South Coast, Kenya website: colobusconservation.org CONTACTS: 254 711 479453   Star Rating: 4/5  