Zimbabweans celebrating the
expected fall of President Robert Mugabe began marching towards
his residence in the capital Harare on Saturday, live television
pictures showed, as the country prepared to oust its leader of
the last 37 years. Earlier in the day tens of thousands of people flooded the
streets of the capital singing, dancing and hugging soldiers in
an outpouring of elation as Mugabe's rule comes to an end. In scenes reminiscent of the downfall of Romanian dictator
Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989, men, women and children ran alongside
the armoured cars and troops that stepped in this week to oust
the only ruler Zimbabwe has known since independence in 1980. The 93-year-old Mugabe has been under house arrest in his
lavish 'Blue Roof' compound in Harare, from where he has watched
support from his Zanu-PF party, security services and people
evaporate in less than three days. Emotions ran over on Harare's streets as Zimbabweans spoke
of a second liberation for the former British colony, alongside
their dreams of political and economic change after two decades
of deepening repression and hardship. "These are tears of joy," Frank Mutsindikwa, 34, told
Reuters, holding aloft the Zimbabwean flag. "I've been waiting
all my life for this day. Free at last. We are free at last." Mugabe's downfall is likely to send shockwaves across
Africa, where a number of entrenched strongmen, from Uganda's
Yoweri Museveni to Democratic Republic of Congo's Joseph Kabila,
are facing mounting pressure to step aside. The secretary-general of Zimbabwe's War Veterans
Association, Victor Matemadanda, called on those at an
anti-Mugabe rally to march on Mugabe's residence, and live
television footage showed hundreds of protesters marching in
that direction. "Let us now go and deliver the message that grandfather
Mugabe and his typist-cum-wife should go home," Matemadanda told
the crowd in the Harare township of Highfield. The crowds in Harare have so far given a quasi-democratic
veneer to the army's intervention, backing its claims that it is
merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power, which would
help it avoid the diplomatic backlash and opprobrium that
normally follows coups. NO DIS-GRACE For some Africans, Mugabe remains a nationalist hero, the
continent's last independence leader and a symbol of its
struggle to throw off the legacy of decades of colonial
subjugation. But to many more at home and abroad, however, he was reviled
as a dictator happy to resort to violence to retain power and to
run a once-promising economy into the ground. Although Mugabe has been digging in his heels in the face of
army pressure to quit, he appears to have run out of road,
devoid of domestic or international support. Political sources and intelligence documents seen by Reuters
said Mugabe's exit is likely to pave the way for an interim
unity government led by Mnangagwa, a life-long Mugabe aide and
former security chief known as "The Crocodile". Stabilising the free-falling economy will be the number one
priority, the documents said. The United States, a long-time Mugabe critic, said it was
looking forward to a "new era" in Zimbabwe, while President Ian
Khama of neighbouring Botswana said Mugabe had no diplomatic
support in the region and should resign at once. "I don't think anyone should be president for that amount of
time. We are presidents. We are not monarchs. It's just common
sense," Khama told Reuters. In a sign of the depth of his demise, Mugabe's ruling
ZANU-PF called on Friday for him to go, according to The Herald,
the state newspaper that has served as a loyal mouthpiece for
nearly four decades. ZANU-PF branches in all 10 provinces had also called for the
resignation of Mugabe's wife Grace, the first lady whose
ambitions to succeed her husband outraged the military and much
of the country. To many Zimbabweans, Grace is more familiar as "Gucci Grace"
on account of her reported dedication to shopping, or - in the
wake of the alleged assault in September of a South African
model - "Dis-Grace". Mugabe's nephew, Patrick Zhuwao, told Reuters on Saturday
that the elderly leader and his wife were "ready to die for what
is correct" and had no intention of stepping down in order to
legitimise what he described as a coup. Speaking from a secret location in South Africa, Zhuwao said
Mugabe had hardly slept since the military seized power on
Wednesday but his health was otherwise "good". STUBBORN The extraordinary scenes in Harare are indicative of the
anger and frustration that has built up in nearly two decades of
economic mismanagement that started with the seizure of
white-owned farms in 2000, the catalyst of a wider collapse. The central bank tried to print its way out of trouble by
unleashing a flood of cash but that only made matters worse,
leading to hyperinflation that topped out at 500 billion percent
in 2008. At least 3 million Zimbabweans emigrated in search of a
better life, most of them to neighbouring South Africa. After stabilising briefly when Mugabe was forced to work
with the opposition in a 2009-2013 unity government, the economy
has collapsed again, this time due to a chronic shortage of
dollars. In October, monthly inflation leapt to more than 50 percent,
putting basic goods beyond the means of many in a country with
90 percent unemployment. Mugabe's only public appearance since the military took over
on Wednesday was at a university graduation ceremony on Friday
morning. Decked out in blue and yellow academic gowns, he
appeared tired, at one point falling asleep in his chair. A senior member of the ZANU-PF ruling party said it was only
a matter of time before he agreed to his own departure. "If he becomes stubborn, we will arrange for him to be fired
on Sunday," the source said. "When that is done, it's
impeachment on Tuesday."