If there’s anything Gabu Fords doesn’t lack, it is ambition. In 2013, he accompanied his friend to a casting and this was awkwardly how he gained interest in modelling. Before this, the model admits that he had no idea what modeling was all about. He was just a just village boy who had moved to the city and was simply trying to find his way around.Now, he is conquering the industry with his works, which could easily measure against those of established names. He is now a common face in fashion projects and one of the most sought-after individuals in the fashion space. Gabu doesn’t shy away from anything, and this pleasant quality has got him to work with London-based designer Tokyo James, Lekasri Bespoke Suits and Attire by Kunal & Sid J. Through the Indian-based AJIO, he has done website shoots for brands like Nike and Puma. Aesthetically, Gabu is equal scoops of internationally recognised male models like Gaspar Jorge, Staniel Ferreira and Adonis Bosso. He has mastered the art so well that he fits in almost everything: runway, editorial and commercial modelling. Whether he is asked to don something androgynous or pose topless, he is experimental and willing to boldly showcase his mastery. His chiselled physique, sometimes complemented by his septum piercing, is absolutely striking. The end result is a fully formed model who is a direct beneficiary of his choices, but wholly his own man. He acknowledges his body as his greatest asset and maintains that he always has to stay in perfect shape. Talent aplenty, proper features and endless involvement with top agencies around have set the stage for the Gabu Fords to grow into an amazing personality. He is an emerging favourite and, this year alone, he has been featured in the Nest Collective’s fashion book “Not African Enough” and Zeddie Loky’s homecoming Narok NYC runway. It is obvious that Gabu Fords has had a pretty busy but successful year - and he doesn’t seem to be slowing down. He is prepared to take the international fashion scene by storm and he just might be the breakthrough our local fashion scene needs.