Oxygen is life, so it is every parent’s nightmare when their child cannot breathe properly. Such is the dilemma posed by pneumonia, a form of acute respiratory infection that clogs up the lungs. The lungs are made up of small sacs called alveoli, which fill with air when a healthy person breathes. When a person has pneumonia, the alveoli are filled with pus and fluid, which makes breathing painful and limits oxygen intake. Children who have pneumonia have varying and painful breathing. Because of the difficulty of inhaling and exhaling, such children are at risk of dying faster if the disease is not diagnosed or treated on time. To give birth to a healthy baby is hard work. The mother has to ensure she leads a healthy life until she delivers. Wajir resident Halima, 28, however, did not have such luxury. Her pregnancy came while she was very sick. Moreover, she had to take of herself, her unborn baby, and feed her family, because her husband was out seeking pasture for their livestock.  "Suleka was born underweight. She was not premature but very small, the size of my hand. From the day she was born, she was having diarrhoea. I only breastfed her but then [at three months] she got a cold," Halima said.  FIGHTING FOR HER LIFE Because of the difficulty in breastfeeding, Halima started giving the baby cow’s milk, which made her condition deteriorate rapidly. Doctors told her not to worry, the diahrroea would go away after a few days. But three days later, the baby was fighting for her life. Halima took a bus to Griftu Hospital, where her baby was diagnosed with severe pneumonia, malnutrition and dehydration. “I felt frightened when I was told it was pneumonia, but I kept telling myself my baby will be okay. I was praying to God that my baby would be okay. The doctor reassured me, so I felt better,” Halima said. Doctors administered first and then second-line antibiotics without response. They resorted to third-line antibiotic treatment and the fever swiftly abated and Suleka’s breathing rate returned to normal levels. Medic Siyad Hassan said if Suleka had come in two or three days later, she would not have survived. He said most pneumonia cases at the hospital are associated with malnutrition, and that parents often delay bringing their children until the cases are severe. “Suleka’s case illustrates the complexity of the challenges posed by pneumonia in impoverished, hard-to-reach settings like Wajir. Chronic under-investment in health infrastructure, large distances between clinics, and nomadic livelihoods of the community mean many households lack accesses to hospitals, and health workers often lack the training they need to diagnose and treat pneumonia,” Hassan said. Last year, Wajir recorded 13,344 cases of child pneumonia. This was made up of 7,339 boys and 6,005 girls under five years old. For families living in Wajir, poor health and lack of access to healthcare are caused by poor infrastructure (such as poor roads and ill-equipped hospitals), the pastoral lifestyle, ignorance around health and healthcare, illiteracy and cultural practices. The county also lacks enough human resources to provide quality health services. It relies largely on health care workers from other parts of Kenya, and factors such as insecurity, poor infrastructure and harsh environmental conditions make it difficult for those workers to stay and work in this county. THIRD-WORST CHILD KILLER Data from the Health ministry shows that pneumonia is the leading cause of child mortality in the country more lethal than diarrhoea and malaria. Worrying statistics show that 68,000 babies do not get to celebrate their fifth birthday annually as a result of diarrhoea and pneumonia. This translates to 52 children dying every day from preventable diseases.  Vaccines being a crucial preventative measure for children against pneumonia, the 2014 Kenya Demographic Survey showed that the uptake of the recommended three doses of pentavalent and pneumococcal vaccine among children is 68 per cent.  Pediatrician and epidemiologist Ambrose Agweyu, who practises at the Kemri Wellcome Trust, said the disease often affects unvaccinated children between six months and two years old, who live in poorly ventilated houses, have poor nutrition, don’t wash their hands frequently, are not exclusively breastfeeding for six months, and don’t take antibiotics promptly to treat pneumonia. “Ideally, very few children should die of pneumonia. However, it is still a leading cause of death in children,” he said. “The coverage of the vaccines in Kenya only reaches 70 per cent of children in the country, with some parts of the country, such as the north, having much lower coverage than the others.” TOOLS OF DIAGNOSIS A machine known as a pulse oximeter, which helps in determining which child needs oxygen or not, is only found in countable hospitals in the country. Despite it being a key intervention in refining diagnosis, Agweyu said it is still difficult to diagnose pneumonia in children because obtaining sputum from children is not easy.  “Some children also come to hospital during the last stage of pneumonia. Even if you do initiate treatment, it might be too late for the child to benefit,” Agweyu said. Before the invention of the pulse oximeter machine, health workers were trained on how to identify key signs of a child suffering pneumonia. “There’s a treatment protocol that has been in use for 30 years. It requires the health worker to ask if the child has a history of coughing or difficulty in breathing, checking the respiratory rate of how fast a child is breathing in a minute and assessing the presence of the lower part of the chest being pulled in when they breathe,” Agweyu said. The guidelines on pneumonia management are categorised into three. If a health care worker is examining a child who is less than two months old, he or she must ensure that it does not breathe more than 60 breaths per minute. One who is between two–eleven months old should not breathe more than 50 breaths per minute, and those between 12 months and five years old should not breathe more than 40 beats per minute. Anything above the cut-off breaths shows that the child has pneumonia. “These signs have been shown to predict a child who has low or high oxygen levels, but they are not perfect. So you might end up having some children who might not require oxygen receiving it based on the signs, and perhaps most tragically, those requiring oxygen not receiving it,” Agweyu said. He added: “Children with oxygen saturation of less than 90 per cent should get oxygen and those who have above 90 per cent should not receive oxygen, unless they have another sign that they may qualify their need for oxygen.” THE NEW DRUG In a bid to reduce the number of children dying of pneumonia and giving child friendly medicines to those diagnosed with pneumonia, the government has shifted the first-line treatment from injections to dispersible tablets. The Amoxycilin dispersible tablets currently being used in Asian countries have proved very effective when used as the first line of treatment. The tablets are higher dose than the injectable antibiotics and will be given to children with high oxygen levels for five days. “Lots of children who have pneumonia with high oxygen saturation form the bulk who have milder forms. These are the children we are targeting. Those with low oxygen saturation need to be admitted and put on injectables four times a day, since they might also not be able to be fed, because they are too breathless to breastfeed,” Agweyu said. “Previously we used to give a child one dose of 25mg/kg twice a day but now we are giving them a dose of between 40–45mg/kg.” Paediatrician Magdalene added that this will reduce the amount of agony that parents and children face when giving them a treatment regimen that was adult-friendly, painful and bitter. The move to roll out child-friendly treatment regimen to children is a big step in ensuring children can celebrate their fifth birthdays. However, Agweyu said the government should invest more in equipping and training health workers on how to use the pulse oximeter machine to able to accurately detect which child needs oxygen.