I can confidently say I’m love in with Miss November… If November was a chick, I would marry her en for our anniversary celebration, I would marry her again… I can’t cheat on Miss November… This month, everything is just on point. Even the god of rain has decided let it rain in November… We have not had cases of teargas in the air. Even the guys who love to chase after Vitamin T have given up, settling for other ways of getting the nutrients they were getting from Vitamin T, aka Teargas… Political tension and fights have reduced to only WhatsApp groups… The roads are full and our traffic situation in all the major cities has normalised… It was a good day to walk into a club/bar and see all the tables full again… The waiters/waitresses are a happy lot. Kenyans are now back to business as usual, so the tips and fake bills are in plenty… So to celebrate my newfound love that’s Miss November, I went to have lunch with my crew at Mammuy-Dada around Valley Arcade on Monday after work, and the lunch, which was compounded with loads of pepe chillie, turned into a full-blown drinking plan. Some three bottles of Cognac later, I found myself at 1824 after midnight, but the weather didn’t allow me too stay for long, and I was peacefully asleep in my bed by myself by 2am…  Tuesday night I was hosting some Russian friends at a Japanese restaurant in Westlands called Furusato, and after indulging in very expensive raw fish and Japanese rice wine sakes, I was too wasted to even think of going out… I was out like a baby who’s just breastfed… I now know why I eat rice and don’t drink it… I think the Japanese have something to do with the word “Mchele”, because it’s like I was drugged… Wednesday I had a massive hangover. I’m not touching rice wine anytime soon… So my hangover needed chillie and Cognac, so after work, I land at Road House for some “tumbukiza”, played some pool before I landed at Gallileo for country night with Sir Elvis…Thursday night I went for a date that didn’t last long because I’m so rusty in the dating sector, I took my date to a club en all I can say is that it was a very, very bad idea… The chick, who looked like a lightweight when it comes to Akohor, nearly drunk #TheRaverend into bankruptcy. I thank my gods it was Thursday night and I used the work card… The girl drunk everything expensive at the bar, from Cognac, Tequila Patron to Jägerbomb…  The chick from MTV, aka Mountain View, didn’t drink the normal shit normal girls drink… She actually drunk everything #TheRaverend drinks and more… My weekly drinking budget was on stupid deficit like the Kenyan economy… I was forced to apply for a new bond issue to survive through the weekend…  The only way I’m going for a second date with that slay queen from MTV is if we go Dutch. I’m not paying for her drinks anytime soon…  Friday I was under the tree #UTT from 2pm. One, because I was wasted by the MTV slay queen the previous night, and two, because “chini ya miti is life”. Chewing sticks is my way of giving back to the rising miraa economy… From Madaraka I found my way to Mercury ABC like clockwork … How I go home at 1am, shower and head out to the club is still a mystery, even to myself… That’s why I need a woman in my life to share all my happiness with and just to keep me on lock down to give me a reason to want to be home… But all that is just but wishful thinking, because I know myself. I will be interested for not more than two weeks before I get bored and want to run…  This weekend I’m in the city, no Diani trips for #TheRaverend. I’m a local tourist, so if you catch me at the bar, don’t sweat, just throw me one before asking for a picture or where my co-host Adella Onyango is… She is married, guys, so she is rarely out in the dunda…  Sunday, you’re all invited to the biggest Super Bike race happening in Kiganjo: open-track Ruiru… Among the highlights is DJ Stylez of Stylez Racing, who will be taking on the Boss of Mans racing Altaf Tafu in a money race that will see the winner walking away with about Sh1 million…My money is on the MAN’s team Tafu, because his my mentor when it comes to riding, and plus he has a better machine than Allan Stylez or Stylez Racing, who is one of the best speed bike racers in East Africa… So if you’re looking for a Sunday plan, let’s catch up in Kiganjo, it’s going to be too fresh #Need4Speed Kenya Edition!!!   RAVEREND JUICE   The ladies’ favourite, DJ Créme, totalled his German machine early Sunday morning on his way home from Roxie Club, Utawala, where he had gone for a gig Saturday night… Roxie, one of Eastlands’ best-kept secrets, is one of the hottest clubs in Nairobi, with top DJs and entertainers opting to party or book gigs in the Utawala club instead of the Westlands clubs that are serious suffering… DJ Créme recently acquired the Mercedes Benz for about 2mic, but the machine is no more after the insurance wrote it off after the accident… No one was injured during the accident… So as Créme shops around for a new whip, he’s now officially back to taxi manenos…    Akothee Madam Boss will be giving her first major performance in Kenya this December, after she agreed to a deal with Diani Beach Festival #DBF Organisers to headline the urban night of the month-long event happening in Ukunda Diani from December 9 to January 2… Akothee, who promises to give an electrifying performance, will be on stage on Dec 28, alongside Créme and Kiss TV DJ Hypnotiq… Sauti Sol will also be gracing the festival on Jamuhuri Day eve, that’s December 11, with bongo queen Vanessa Mdee hitting the stage on New Year’s Eve…