Cows in Tigania East will be fitted with microchips for easy tracking in a move aimed at reducing cattle rustling, MP Josphat Gichunge has said. Gichunge said about 1,500 cows will have GPRS tracking devices fitted under their stomach to track their movement. The move follows the stealing of over 1,000 cows and 400 goats from Tigania East by suspected bandits two weeks ago. Gichunge said the livestock have not been recovered. He said bandits invade his constituency to steal cattle before escaping to neighbouring Isiolo county.  On October 24,  about 60 bandits invaded Kamuten village in Laikumukumu, where they shot and killed two people before stealing their livestock. “We know the cattle are hidden somewhere in Isiolo. We urge the security officers there to help us recover the animals,” Gichunge said. He said the tracking devices will bring to an end the culture of cattle rustling. “I dare the bandits to come again. They will not go more than 20 metres before being shot,” Gichunge said.  He said he will lobby for a reshuffle of security bosses in the constituency. He accused police of laxity, saying they had failed to end cattle rustling. “It is painful and sad to see residents losing their lifetime investments to bandits. Police should protect both wananchi and their property,” Gichunge said. He unveiled phone numbers through which residents should report incidents of cattle theft. “Report theft cases to 0722753024 or 0722460650. But don’t lie on the number of cows lost. You must also indicate your area,” he said.  He was speaking at Lewa Conservancy in the constituency. Gichunge is among four Nyambene legislators who signed an agreement to end bandit attacks in the region on September 26. Others are Maore Maoka (Igembe North), Kubai Kiringo (Igembe Central) and John Mutunga (Tigania West). The agreement was signed in Muthara, Tigania East.  The MPs petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta and acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to deploy police reservists to the area.  They also appealed for compensation to pastoralists who have lost livestock to bandits. On October 6, during a tour of Meru county, Uhuru promised to boost security along the Meru-Isiolo border. He said some 200 police reservists would be deployed to the area. Last week, county commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said more than 200 police reservists are being trained to strengthen security in the area. “We have acquired a helicopter to help us track stolen animals. The trained reservists will soon be armed with rifles,” Nyagwanga said.