Resolution Kisii are bubbling with confidence ahead of their Kenya Cup bow against Nakuru on November 25. Kisii have been training at Kisii University and Gusii Stadium ahead of their debut and club chairman Walter Orangi said he is satisfied with the preparations so far. “Despite a few challenges here and there, we are ready for Kenya Cup. Everyone here is excited. The players are ready for the opportunity to showcase their talent,” said Orangi. He said the club is targeting to avoid relegation. “We are a small club in terms of history but we want to leave a mark and a legacy. We must strive to remain in the league,” added Orangi. At the same time, the club is shopping for a coach after Eric Bosire was promoted to be the club’s director of rugby. Caleb Ong’ayo is the team manager and Dolphine Mokeira the physiotherapist with Hillary Kizito named as the strength and conditioning coach. He said the club is in the process of registering more players for the new season. He added that they will use the 36th edition of Impala Saracens Floodies Rugby Tournament to gauge themselves ahead of the new season. “We are facing current Kenya Cup champions KCB in the quarter finals on Saturday afternoon. KCB is a very experienced side with several national team players but we are ready to upset them,” said Orangi. Bosire, who coached the side last season, said the team will play several build up matches including against national sevens circuit champions Kabras. “We have a very youthful and promising squad. I’m very sure they will enjoy their Kenya Cup campaign,” said Bosire, adding that they are targeting to maintain their unbeaten record at home. “In the championship, we were unbeaten at home and we want to maintain that. It will not be easy but we are ready,” Bosire said. Kizito who is the acting coach said they are working on the players’ mental strength because most of them are inexperienced. George Sagini, the club’s captain said: “We want to gain experience in our debut season then the following year, we shall try and fight for a semi final position.” Sagini appealed to the Kisii County Governor James Ongwae to exempt the club from paying for the use of Gusii Stadium for training.