President Uhuru Kenyatta's second-term bid ran into headwinds yesterday after two petitions were filed against his October 26 victory, which was marred by low turnout and an Opposition boycott. But a separate suit was also filed at the Supreme Court seeking to bar Opposition chiefs led by Raila Odinga from holding public office because they mobilised against the presidential rerun. This means Uhuru's swearing-in, which was set for November 14, must await the outcome of another titanic legal duel The first petition was filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau. The second petition was filed by veteran human rights activists Khelef Khalifa and Njonjo Mue. Khalifa and Mue say no nominations were carried out for the repeat presidential election, the principle of universal suffrage was violated and the IEBC was not independent, impartial or neutral. The suit alleges the election was conducted in an environment rife with violence, intimidation and blatant breaches of the law. According to the activists who have been on the radar of the state through the NGO Regulations Board, the presidential candidates were not issued with new nomination certificates. “A nomination certificate issued to a candidate under Section 14 of the Elections Act is valid only for the election for which it is issued,” they said. In a supporting affidavit, Mue, chairman of the Kenya Section of the International Commission of Jurists, makes the same argument used by Raila when he withdrew from the race. Mue argues Raila's withdrawal ought to have automatically triggered vacation of the scheduled election. The two petitioners accuse the IEBC chairman of making irrational, inconsistent and unpredictable decisions, especially in limiting the election to only two candidates and then amending the ballot to include other names. “The IEBC thinks the law is a nuisance and only follow it when they want to or when it suits a particular predetermined outcome,” the petitioners say. In his separate petition, Mwau says the IEBC violated the Constitution by failing to subject presidential candidates to fresh nominations, as required by law. The former MP who served as the first director of the old Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority, said the electoral agency violated Article 82 1(b) and 2(a,b) of the constitution by failing to comply with the mandatory requirement for nominations. Mwau had sought to stop the October 26 polls on similar grounds but the case was dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. "By refusing to conduct fresh nominations, IEBC and Chairman [Wafula Chebukati] violated article 83 of the Constitution thereby denying eligible citizens the right to vote or stand for election," he said. "This renders the elections held on October 26 invalid as they were conducted in an unconstitutional, irregular, illegal manner and in flagrant disobedience of the [Supreme] Court's directions.” He is seeking several declarations, including that the elections as held by the commission were invalid because various articles of the Constitution were violated. The late gazettement of Cyrus Jirongo as a presidential candidate after the printing of ballot papers commenced has also returned to haunt IEBC. Mwau is seeking a declaration the Commission violated the Constitution by including Jirongo on the ballot without first gazetting his name in the special gazette notice like the other seven candidates. He says the Commission failed to accord all candidates equal time to campaign, which affected the conduct and results of the elections. After nullification on September 1 of Uhuru's victory on August 8, the IEBC said only Raila and Uhuru will be on the ballot, citing the 2013 Supreme Court ruling. But the High Court on October 11 quashed that decision and allowed all the previous contenders to run – leaving them with only 12 days campaign period A separate suit was filed against Raila and his co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi for allegedly mobilising against the repeat elections. The petition by the Institute for Democratic Governance seeks a declaration the Opposition chiefs are unfit to hold public office and engaged in electoral malpractices. The petitioner, therefore prays that a declaration that the respondents are jointly and severally liable for the loss and damages arising from the acts of violence and intimidation occasioned during the period of fresh presidential election,” the suit states. The petitions are likely to pose a major challenge for the Judiciary that has been under intense pressure after the David Maraga-led team historically voided Uhuru’s win on September 1. An unshaken Maraga pledged that his team was prepared to pay the ultimate price to protect the Constitution, despite threats from Uhuru to “fix” the court. The Supreme Court judges warned on September 1 that they will not hesitate to nullify another presidential petition if the letter and spirit of the Constitution are violated again. “It [the judgment] ought to lead the IEBC to a soul-searching and to go back to the drawing board. If not, this Court, whenever called upon to adjudicate on a similar dispute will reach the same decision if the anomalies remain the same, irrespective of who the aspirants may be,” Maraga said.