The wreckage of the helicopter that crashed into Lake Nakuru has been pulled out of the water. It took 10 minutes to pull it out. Journalists were barred from the scene, but the rescue team promised families it would go back into the water in case the missing bodies were not in the wreckage. The team has intensified its search for the two remaining bodies. On Friday, the Sonko Rescue Team retrieved the body of Veronica Muthoni, the third victim. “The divers have intensified their search for the remaining bodies,” Jonathan Kertich said. “We are waiting for the Kenya police helicopter to arrive and lift the wreck from the shores so as we can be able to do a thorough search inside to see if some of the bodies are still strapped inside.” He is the National Disaster Operations Centre desk officer in charge of the operation. Kertich said the search has been extended to surrounding land. The wreckage, which was 70 per cent intact, was located 2.44km on the western end of the lake and was lying about 5.4m deep. Kertich said that since the first two bodies were found to the east and north of the lake, there is a likelihood that the other two bodies are trapped in the wreckage. The recovery of Muthoni’s body rekindled hopes of finding the bodies of Sam Gitau and John Mapozi.  Sonko Rescue Team senior diver Moses Owala told families they value human life and will not leave any stone unturned. “We feel for the families of the deceased and know what they are undergoing. It’s so touching and they will soon retrieve the bodies since they have been combing both the forest area and the waters,” he said.  Owala said they are working round the clock, but heavy rains have slowed them down.  “We are very optimistic. Actually if it were not for the dirty water and poor visibility, this exercise would be over and all bodies retrieved. We did this during the Mtongwe Ferry tragedy in 1994 where over 200 people perished,” said the international diver.  Aircraft Investigation Department officer Mathias Ombasa said they will be able to conduct comprehensive investigations to establish the cause of the crash.