The regulations on campaign financing are something that was overdue because our politics has been characterized by a lot of bribery, benevolence and extravagance as far as expenditure is concerned. There are those who could offer better leadership but due to the fact that they did not have enough finances to mount huge campaigns, opted to drop their bids. There are politicians who were using this as an avenue to extort or get some donor funding to channel into their campaigns.  The main reason why the campaign financing regulations could not come at a better time than this is to ensure that we sanitize our electoral process such that we do not really have to determine the ability of a particular candidate to offer himself for any leadership position by the depth of his or her pocket but on the ability to offer the leadership that the general citizens need.  These regulations are something that ought to be supported by all political parties and all political players. In the recent past, there has been talk that the regulations were touching on some of the political coalitions or targetting politicians from certain parties.  From an expert part of view, this is something that the political players, parties and coalitions should and must support. Democracy can be enhanced by strengthening and regulating campaign finance structures. This will bring back stability and sanity in terms of campaign expenditure.  This is one of the prescriptions that will help Kenyans to mitigate the issues of corruption. For those who have had opportunities to serve in public offices and are considering running for elective positions, they will want to acquire as much money as possible and to engage in underhand things.  An authority assigned to a state officer is a public trust that must be exercised in a manner that brings dignity to the office and respect to the nation. Regulating campaign finances is a step towards curbing electoral malpractices and corruption.  When some wealthy people could not offer themselves for top positions, they hide themselves behind a particular candidate and pump a lot of money into the campaign to make them their slaves.  One cannot make any independent decision and cannot work effectively for the electorate since he or she will be scouting for loopholes of opportunities to reward cartels that are yearning to siphon out public money. The writer is a labour law expert      