The state intends to severely punish those who hire unlicensed electricians to tap power into their homes and business premises. A Bill introduced in the National Assembly this week warns that a consumer who allows unlicensed electricians to install electricity commits an offence. "...the consumer, shall on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh50,000 or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding three months or both." The Bill, which is in its first reading, was tabled by majority leader Aden Duale and is envisioned to get rid of quacks in the electricity business. Energy Bill, 2017 intends to impose a Sh1 million fine or a six month jail-term for Energy Regulatory Commission licensing officers who permit quacks to perform such duties. In the proposed law, any person who generates, exports, imports, transmits, distributes and supplies electricity without a licence commits an offence. "A person who carries out any electricity undertaking without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than Sh1 million, or to a term of imprisonment not less than one year or both." Unlicensed electricians will either pay Sh100,000 fines or spend six months in jail if the Bill sails through. Where electrical installations do not meet the conditions outlined, the commission shall turn down power connections.  The supply might also be disconnected if electrical installations are pre-existent. The proposed legislation also makes it illegal for any person to own or operate an unlicensed facility that produces energy using coal. "Anyone who contravenes the law in relation to construction of such a facility is liable to one year jail-term or a fine of Sh1 million." The Bill also seeks to have a county Energy CEC nominated by the council of governors as a member of the ERC board of directors. The Jubilee administration has expanded supply of electricity across the country under the Last Mile Connectivity Project. The project, implemented by Kenya Power, is jointly funded by the World Bank and the African Development Bank. The government plans to expand the network during the second phase of the project at a tune of Sh31.08 billion. This is expected to take at least 18 months and is set to grow Kenya Power's customer base by 1.5 million new homes. In June, the connectivity figure stood at 6.18 million homes, equivalent to 70 per cent of the country's connectivity access rate. The project will require over 10,000 km of cable, more than 65,000km of conductor, 1,000 new distribution transformers, 391,000 wooden poles and 233,000 concrete poles. Read: Belgium puts Sh2.4 billion into Last Mile County Connectivity Project Related: Uhuru defends Last Mile Connectivity project