Homa Bay victims of police brutality will get Sh150,000 each from a fund established by their MCAs.  The county assembly has passed a motion to create an emergency fund for those injured or killed during the anti-election protests. Four residents died, while about 25 people were injured. The money will be contributed by MCAs and CEC members. The county has 63 MCAs — 40 elected and 13 nominated. It has 10 executives. Majority leader Richard Ogindo, who introduced the motion, said on Friday it will ensure they stand in solidarity with the victims and their families. Ogindo said this is separate from the fund to be used to clear mortuary bills. “We want to ensure we are in solidarity with NASA supporters who suffered as a result of police brutality when our leader Raila Odinga called for peaceful protests,” he said. “This motion is not targetting the money meant for development projects. MCAs and Executive Committee members will contribute funds to be saved in the kitty,” he said. The Kwabwai MCA expressed concern that many young people, who suffer during demonstrations, are poor and might be detained by hospitals if no fund is set aside for them. He added, however, that only victims will benefit, adding they have put in place measures to ensure those pretending to be victims are kept at bay. “A few people may masquerade as victims of the demonstrations to benefit from the fund, but we have put in place modalities to ensure only genuine beneficiaries get it,” Ogindo said. Kakelo Kokwanyo MCA Dan Were welcomed the decision, saying it was timely. “It was not the wish of the victims to suffer. The Constitution guarantees these people the right be provided with medical care,” Were said. More than 20 protesters received medication in Homa Bay County Referral, Rachuonyo, Ndhiwa, Sindo and Mbita Subcounty hospitals and were discharged. Governor Cyprian Awiti also directed hospitals not to charge any protester who was shot or injured during the demonstrations. Assembly speaker Elizabeth Ayoo said the motion will be of utmost help to residents. “This House now passed the motion to help cater for the demonstration victims and those who were killed,” he said. Awiti said his office would liaise with all stakeholders to ensure hospital bills of the victims are settled.