Kenyan insurance firms have drawn closer to insolvency following the introduction of the risk-based supervision regime, actuarties have said. A quantitative impact study by the Actuarial Society of Kenya found that the underwriters’ capital adequacy ratio, the co-rrelation of available capital against the required capital, has dropped significantly since the new rules came into play. The rules, set out in the Insurance Act 2015, require general insurance companies to have a minimum capital of Sh600 million, while life insurers are expected to hold a minimum of Sh400 million. Risk-based supervision looks at the risk exposure of a company and whether it is able to deal with the financial implications as a result of occurrence of that risk. Data provided by the society shows that since the risk-based regime came into effect, the capital adequacy ratio dropped to an average 131 per cent for the general business class from 412 per cent, while life business dropped to 136 per cent from 206 per cent. “As more requirements come into play, the CAR is expected to further diminish. If it goes below 100 per cent, it means the insurer is insolvent,” Kenbright Actuaries managing director Ezekiel Macharia said. He added that although the Insurance Regulatory Authority had extended the deadline requiring insurers to meet capital requirements to 2020, there was still need for provision of intervention guidelines for CAR requirements to range between 100 and 200 per cent. IRA currently requires firms to have CAR of at least 200 per cent. Macharia said there was need to create products that would assist small insurance firms better adopt the risk-based regime as they were the most affected, adding that underwriters are set to face more changes in requirements such as the IFRS 9 and 17. The actuaries expect there will be increased mergers and acquisitions in the insurance industry as firms race to comply with new minimum capital requirements rules. “At the current stage, the large and medium players are able to execute this model. However the small players are really struggling,” Macharia said. Already, mergers and acquisitions have been taking shape in the sector. Some of these acquisitions include that of Real Insurance by Britam, while Pan Africa acquired a 51 per cent stake in Gateway Insurance to grow its general business line. UAP also merged with Old Mutual, while Jubilee Holdings partnered with DRC’s state-owned insurance company Sonas to offer medical and life cover products. The society yesterday hosted delegates and stakeholders in its annual two-day convention dubbed Harnessing Opportunities in East Africa. Centum Investment’s managing director James Mworia implored the market stakeholders to uphold integrity and ethics.