Ever since the commercialization of the internet in the late 20th Century, and the subsequent exponential growth in information technology, humanity has attempted to outdo herself severally in answering one simple question: How do we get technology to work for us? Given the power of technology, our lives are being made simpler day by day through the automation of repetitive and mechanical tasks. This concept of automation of tasks has over the years been applied in the public sector space as well. Particularly, governmental services are increasingly automated, allowing for the delivery of government information and services to citizens ‘anywhere, anytime’. We are now in an era of on-demand services. As a point of pride, Kenya is not left behind in this race for efficient governmental service delivery as and when needed. With the advent of online e-government services such as e-citizen and iTax, Kenya is arguably at the forefront of e-service delivery, particularly in the public sector realm, in Sub-Saharan Africa. The above not-withstanding, there is still quite a lot of work to be done. Notably, it is expected that a number of teething problems will arise in the early days of rolling out e-government services. For instance, we have Nairobi’s digital parking payment service, Jambo Pay. Conceptually, providing a digital parking payment solution is brilliant in its simplicity. Many a Nairobian has felt the frustration of having to physically look for a parking attendant in the Central Business District whilst running late for a meeting or appointment. Clearly, the digital payment solution is serving a much desired purpose. However, despite the potential benefits from the platform, to date Nairobians are still facing the same frustration – as a result of faults in the Jambo Pay system. Teething problems such as scalability and reliability need to be addressed so as to ensure that service delivery is flawless. As we continue to work toward governmental connectivity, the challenges faced along the way should serve as lessons in our progress. It is not expected that we will get it right the first time, far from it. Rather, we should be prepared to embrace the pitfalls as we move along, with our focus maintained on the end result – a fully integrated e-government platform. The buck does not stop at having a webpage that provides access to governmental services – rather, we should look toward a fully integrated platform, both vertically and horizontally. In the same way that Huduma Centres are marketed as One-Stop Shops for access to governmental services, through e-government, the same should be available ‘anywhere, anytime’. Be it renewing a driving license, applying for a passport, to accessing traffic information in real-time or communicating directly with a governmental organization – this should all be available in one platform. With e-citizen, we are in the right direction.