The essential thing to remember about Raila Odinga's proposed boycott is that it is a shakedown: an attempt to make money by threatening legitimate businesses with political action.  The effects, whether the boycott succeeds or not, will be profoundly undemocratic. A man who spent the middle of his career fighting, and winning, the battle for democracy in Kenya is ending as he began: a breaker, not a builder.  It did not have to be like this. Say what you will, but face the facts: Raila didn't always fight wisely or well, but when the history of these years is written, in a calmer, more reflective time, it will record that he endured great suffering and showed great courage in the cause of Kenya's constitutional democracy. He campaigned for the expansion of democratic space.  He endured defeat after defeat, never doubting that the second liberation would come. On the day we celebrated the ratification of the new constitution, the struggle that he and others had prosecuted so bravely won its crown, at last.  These achievements will live. What won't is the darker, less democratic side of his character, which has returned as his career draws to a close. Few politicians are wholly altruistic.  They are animated as much by power as by principle - and that's if we're lucky. Raila is not immune: he went into an ill-advised alliance with the ruling party in the 1990s; he did not refrain from playing ugly ethnic politics when he thought it would be to his advantage; and he has often played the part of the cynical populist when it seemed to fit his political needs.  That hunger for power - which is no bad thing in a politician when tempered by principle and prudence - combines with his disrespect for free markets and private property to produce some of his worst moments.  Now, he certainly doesn't seem to reject the fruit of free exchange: like any successful politician, he keenly appreciates that politics is, in large part, a contest for resources. But he has shown, even by Kenyan standards, an unusual bent for mismanaging private resources - especially when they belong to others.  He and his party at the time have often taken money from supporters without ever accounting for it: from the contributions for the molasses plant; to the multiple M-Pesa fundraisers which have never fully been accounted for; to the sore supporters, ever wondering where their contributions went, and never able to get a clear answer - the pattern is clear.  Were it confined only to his supporters, the problem would be less serious. But the example of Dominion farms suggests that Raila is willing to tamper with the property of others, even foreigners - and even when leaving private enterprise to do its business would benefit the country, and his supporters most of all. Kisumu remains difficult territory for investors from other parts of the country, and his people's talents do not find the reward they deserve. His remarks in Kajiado, and about Laikipia, seem to show that the property of other Kenyans is not immune. In what he said, he showed disrespect for the hard and patient work of Kenyans who bought property in other parts of the country, and made it work for Kenya’s benefit. This latest boycott is perhaps best understood as an attempt to take a game he plays locally to the national level. That is a tragedy. As with many of the most troubling tragedies, the protagonist is undone by a deep character flaw; it is not so much kikulacho ki nguoni mwako as it is kikulacho ki moyoni mwako.  The desire for power, once tempered by principle, is now naked ambition. The courage that once inspired Kenyans across the political divide is now recklessness, shocking even his closest partisans. Disregard for private enterprise has coarsened into greed for others’ goods. As the old man leaves the stage one last time, we look on in pity. Mabonga is MP for Bumula Constituency and a keen observer of international affairs