Ugandan police are forcing fishermen to eat raw fish on Migingo Island, those in Nyatike have reported and asked the government to end the harassment. Speaking to the press on Saturday, they said they have been subjected to a lot of torture by Ugandan police and military guarding the waters. Kennedy Mkwaya, who deals in freshwater sardine or omena, said they are often forced to pay Sh5,000 taxes daily when found at the lake. Territory does not matter, he said, adding: "They often operate at dusk and dawn when they are sure boats have big catches. Once they surround your boat, they demand taxes at gunpoint," Mkwaya said. The fisherman added that their stock and gear are confiscated and that they are threatened with arrests. "What is happening here makes us question if we are really Kenyans. We need the government to assure us of our citizenship." Kachieng MCA Brian Osodo and his Muhuru Bay counterpart Evron Maira said they have complained several times to the government but have not received any help. "The laxity with which the government is handling the harassment of Kenyans is creating tension in Nyatike. Residents feel discriminated," Osodo said. Maira noted the shortage of fish has forced them to venture deeper into the lake but that that comes with intimidation by Ugandan forces. "Two fishermen from my ward were hospitalised after they were forced to eat raw fish," we need the Migingo island row solved." Reports of harassment have been made since Ugandan fishermen invaded local beaches and Migingo island last month. Locals want the foreigners forcefully removed but Osodo said orders by OCPD Dishon Chebaka were disobeyed. "We want to live as brothers, in the spirit of East Africa Unity, but we can't continue doing with intimidation," Osodo said. "Our government has chosen to be quiet." Read: Tension in Nyatike after Ugandan fishermen invade Migingo Island Also read: Ugandan murdered in bizarre ritual at Migingo Island In March last year, Defence minister Raychelle Omamo said the island row will be resolved through diplomatic negotiations with the Uganda government. Omamo said the stand-off between Kenya and Uganda does not warrant a military approach as "Uganda is a friendly nation". "This is a matter that can be dealt with through diplomatic channels, the Interior ministry and the joint border commissions," she said. Leaders from the region have decried marginalisation and asked the government to step up and protect all Kenyans. More on this: Migingo Island row to be solved diplomatically, says CS Omamo Also read: Mbadi demands release of 22 fishermen arrested by Uganda police