The swelling heaps of garbage on estates in Nairobi's Kamukunji sub-county may need the attention of Governor Mike Sonko. Despite this estates having trucks dedicated to collect garbage, residents are questioning why bins dropped at collection points have not been collected for dumping at the dumpsite for months. Residents of Majengo and Shauri Moyo, which are worst-hit, want Sonko to issue a directive and order investigations into what they suspect could be insiders at City Hall working with outside forces to sabotage his administration. ***** A popular ODM governor last week shocked many after he was spotted withdrawing cash from an M-pesa outlet, despite the direction by NASA leader Raila Odinga to boycott all products offered by Safaricom. Social media was over the weekend abuzz with the image of the county boss doing the transaction. His handlers, after being on the receiving end for hours, later came out to say the picture is an old photo taken when the boycott had not been called. ***** A first term female lawmaker is angry and even regretting joining Parliament. Word has it that the MP’s high expectations of the prestigious august House are already diminishing, just three months after the swearing-in. Our mole tells Corridors the MP was heard lamenting that she is not enjoying the immense privileges former MPs had. It is said she made bitter, remorseful sentiments after confirming that the salary had not been deposited in her account. The lawmaker was heard wondering how she was expected to survive with her paycheck delayed every month. Our mole left her throwing her hands in the air, cursing SRC chair Sarah Serem for subjecting the ‘Honourable’ members to ‘shame’. ***** Was the Nyanza Development Dialogues held in Nairobi effective? The forum, held at Laico Regency Hotel, was organised by Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju and former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba. Corridors has learned that some irate residents from the region have accused Jubilee politicians of being behind a scheme to battle and portray Nyanza as less developed.  ***** Did the National Police Service Commission forget about the plight of police officers? Well, Corridors has learnt that junior officers who were to get a 10 per cent salary increment have now waited for several months after receiving the first batch. The officers, after receiving the first pay, were promised that they will start receiving the pending increments 'next month'. Now it is six months and they fear they might not after all receive the much-needed boost. One officer accused Johnston Kavuludi-led Commission of only improving their welfare on paper.