Parents and teachers are so happy that the Education ministry released KCPE exam results early that they want CS Fred Matiang'i retained. Matiang'i announced the results on Tuesday and thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for giving funds to ensure a smooth process. Read: Best KCPE candidate scores 455, no cheating or missing marks - Matiang'i The National Parents Association wants Uhuru to name Matiang'i Education minister when he names his cabinet after his swearing-in for the second term on Tuesday. Matiang'i was appointed acting Interior Cabinet Secretary after the death of Joseph Nkaissery. Association chair Nicholas Maiyo noted credibility in the examinations and added learners will have enough time to prepare for high school. Maiyo said they want Matiang'i to carry on with his strict reforms that have transformed the sector. He acknowledged the President's liberty to choose whoever he deems fit but noted Matiang'i's "good work". "We are very excited about the quality and credibility of this year's KCPE examinations. It is because of the good work by Matiangi and his team in the ministry," Maiyo told The Star by phone on Wednesday. Noting there was no cheating, he also praised the Kenya National Examinations Council and teachers for their contributions. "We have made great strides. As parents, we thank Matiang'i, exam officials, candidates and others who participated in the process." Maiyo said parents will continue to support the ministry so processes for both KCPE and KCSE tests improve. "We feel Matiang'i is critical to the country's future. The sector needs someone with a vision and dedication...someone like him." The chair reported that parents were also happy with Uhuru's order for special tests for candidates who did not write this year's examinations for various reasons. Westgate Shield School director Peter Gathii praised Matiang'i for the reforms he initiated and noted machines for marking the examinations cut time. "December is not yet here yet the results are out. Parents will budget well for Christmas and prepare themselves to take their children to form one," Gathii said. He addressed parents who celebrated the results of the school in Muguga, Kabete constituency, on Tuesday. The best candidate - Teddy Muli - scored 436 marks and wants to join Alliance High School and later study architecture. Muli was followed by Nimoh Wairimu who scored 431 and wants to attend Alliance Girls' High School. Read: Matiang'i praised for Magufuli-style reforms in Education ministry Click here for the latest political stories