The National Cereals and Produce Board has bought more than 300,000 bags of maize from farmers in the last one month. The Board has also paid out Sh600 million to farmers, mostly in the Rift Valley. Agriculture CS Willy Bett on Tuesday directed the Board to pay farmers instantly for maize delivered. He said the government will buy more than 1.5 million bags from the farmers. The board is paying the farmers Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. “We are happy the farmers have been paid as promised by the government. We hope the move will be sustained so that our farmers deliver all the produce they have to the Board,” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said on Tuesday. CS Bett has asked farmers to stop selling maize at throwaway prices that are less than Sh3,200 offered at the NCPB. He said many farmers are selling their maize to middlemen at less than Sh2,400 per 90kg bag. The government, he said, has set aside cash to buy almost all maize from farmers and they should be patient to deliver it to the NCPB depots. “There is absolutely no reason why farmers should sell their maize to middlemen. Those doing so do want more money,” Bett said. He said the government has scrapped charges for maize drying services at the National Cereals and Produce Board to ease conditions for farmers delivering their produce. Bett said the farmers will make huge losses by selling their produce to middlemen. “We have even reduced the quality level of maize we need at the NCPB. This is clearly a good gesture from a government which cares about the plight of the farmers,” he said. A 20 per cent drop in production is expected this year, because of armyworm invasion and bad weather in high-production areas of the Rift Valley. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government will use more than Sh6 billion to buy all maize from farmers and keep it under the Strategic Grain Reserve. To further cushion farmers against the rising cost of inputs, the President said the government has reduced the price of planting fertiliser to Sh1,200 per 50kg for the next season. To fight the emergence of fall armyworm that has affected the cereal subsector, Uhuru said the government has constituted a multi-institutional technical team of experts and provided Sh300 million towards containing this pest. Elsewhere, the Rotary Club of Eldoret has donated a tractor and other agricultural machines to smallholder dairy farmers in Uasin Gishu. Rotary district governor Peter Mbui, who coordinates rotary clubs in South Sudan, Ethiopia, Kenya and Eritrea, handed over the machinery on Tuesday.