When a man and woman fall in love, they protect their relationships to
prevent anything and anyone from interfering with it and separating them. Courtship starts, and they enjoy the ups and downs of
a relationship. If fruitful, they settle down to a marriage life, through a come-we-stay
arrangement, church wedding or ceremonial marriage in court or at the deputy
county commissioner’s offices. However, after living together for a period of time,
differences arise. Some separate with cases of domestic violence, running away
or hiding from each other, while others seek divorce. Sometimes efforts by their extended families, the
church and the society to reunite them work, but other times they fail, leaving
any children the couple had sired suffering. According to Sauti ya Wanaume na Watoto, one partner bears
the brunt, taking care of the children. SWW chairman Bishop James Njenga said a
lot of family breakups are caused by poor parenting and inadequate counselling
before marriage. The Compassion Revival Church cleric said the number of divorces and
separations is increasing, and men are often the victims since they are
assaulted, battered and insulted by their wives but they opt to keep quiet. Njenga said women speak out and report abuses from
their husbands by either screaming, reporting to the police, chief, children’s
offices and the extended family. However, men are unable to get justice in such cases,
since the society believes men are not supposed to be beaten or insulted by
women. “A lot of them suffer in silence. They are happy when
they leave their houses in the morning, but they feel as if they will die while
going back home in the evening, because they know they are heading to cook,
wash utensils, be insulted or even be battered, and lastly, be denied conjugal
rights,” he said. “Very few confess what they go through in their wives’
hands. They cannot report or even share with a friend.”    SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE Njenga said he had gone through such experiences with his wife, who used
to abuse him. He said he would plead with her not to scold him when
visitors came and in fear of neighbours knowing what used to happen. “I lived a bad life, I don’t even want to remember. I
was beaten by hired goons, my car was destroyed, my cows, sheep and chicken
were sold and I wouldn’t say anything. I feared that woman, but when I realised
I was being abused, we separated, even though it was through a legal process.
It was so long,” Njenga said.  Being a cleric, he would not confront her since
he would be seen as if he was preaching water and drinking wine. However, the experience he underwent forced him to
come up with an organisation that would help men suffering silently speak out
and get help. He formed the SWW in May and registered it as a community-based organisation. Njenga then started holding forums with married men of all ages in
Limuru town, Kiambu county, educating and counselling them on marital issues. He said that a lot of men are now requesting him to
hold seminars, with some secretly sharing their problems with him and asking
for assistance. Some issues are hard to tackle, and the organisation is now
forced to hire counsellors to guide victims. The bishop said when they listen to a case, they invite both the husband
and his wife. They are counselled together and some reconcile, while others
don’t. “As of now, we have not employed counsellors, but we
hire them to counsel couples who are willing, and those willing normally come
to terms with the situation of their lives, children and property, and they
unite again,” he said. Njenga said they have handled cases of all kinds. “One man used to be abused by his wife. She later tied
him with ropes inside the house, locked it and left, with the help of their
daughters. It was in Ndiuni village, Ndeiya ward,” he said. “There are others who are denied conjugal rights by
their wives, who spend the night at their children’s bedrooms because they
don’t want any contact with their husbands. We have helped them and they are
now living together.”  The SWW chairman said some men who are sued for child
neglect, but when investigation is done, the findings exonerate them.   GRIM STATISTICS Njenga said a research carried out by SWW indicates that in one month,
about seven men are abused by their wives, with one or two of them being
physically beaten. The chairman said their aim at SWW is to help married
couples enjoy the joys and fruits brought about by marriage so as to fulfil
God’s creation. “Marriage is holy. It was created by God to increase
His creation. He didn’t want to see separation and divorces, except when there
is infidelity. Our duty is to ensure couples live together and each member
loves, cares for and respects the other,” he said. Despite focussing on men, Njenga said even when a woman
reports abuses from her husband, they take action to establish where the
problem is and help the couple enjoy their marriage before each person goes
their way.   The bishop said children suffer psychologically when
they see their parents fighting. “Parents’ violence affects the children. They cannot
perform well at school, they hate them, they cry all the time in fear they will
start fighting again,” he said. “That is why we hire counsellors to deal with the psychology
of the victims, who are parents and children.”  Njenga said he is lobbying NGOs, good Samaritans and
organisations that deal with marriage counselling and donors to assist them
with funds so they can hire bigger offices with enough counsellors and counselling
rooms. “The vision I have is to see couples living
peacefully. The family is unit of a society and we need to have a strong
society. We cannot have it if we do not have families who value their lives and
what they have,” he said. Njenga said disputes among married couples should not be
a recipe for separation. And whenever couples are determined to divorce, they
should not be forced to do so by what they have gone through in the hands of
each other. “If it is possible, couples should live together, but
whenever they cannot be reunited by counsellors, extended families or any other
institution like ours, it is better they separate. They normally became hard to
each other because of what they experienced from each other,” he said. The chairman said if a man is accused of being a
drunkard and a womaniser, and his wife protests that they risk contracting HIV-Aids,
it’s better they separate for the sake of their children. “There are men who are injured with knives, battered
by hired goons or cut in the private parts. It’s better they separate since the
wives can end up killing their partners,” he said. Njenga said children suffer when couples separate or
divorce, but legal advice is followed to ensure the parent who takes custody of
them feeds, educates and clothes them properly.     WOMEN MORE OUTSPOKEN SWW member Silas Koimburi said very few women hide their suffering,
saying they share with others in the villages, groups and chamas. “Women get ideas very quickly from friends on how to
deal with issues at home and men do not realise. However, they normally fall in
a trap of jealous women, who mislead them and are happy when people break up,”
he said. Marriage counsellor Njeri Gichure of Platform Counselling Firm said a
lot of men are worried about their wives and children and the lives they are
living. “When men are troubled by their wives, they get stressed.
Others develop depression, and at times they die, which is very unfortunate.
Men should speak out to counsellors and seek help from what they are going
through,” she said.