Different scholars on Friday euologised Professor Okoth Okombo as a pioneer of sign language in Africa. The scholars who joined mourners at Okombo's funeral in Homa Bay county, said the deceased played an important role in linguistic development in Kenya. Okombo was buried at his home in Kaswanga village, Rusinga Island in Suba North constituency. He died on November 2. Led by the University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi, scholars paid tribute to their departed colleague. They promised to complete all his scholarly works “Okombo definitely stood tall as an academician who played an important role in the faculty of arts at the University of Nairobi,” Mbithi said in a speech read on his behalf by Professor Peter Obonyo. Okombo started teaching at the University of Nairobi in 1979. Mbithi said Okombo supervised many students who graduated with various degrees in the department. Arts and Social Sciences dean Professor Peter Wanyande said Okombo helped in making sign language be recognised in the Constitution. “He is remembered for his efforts of taking care of interests of the dumb and deaf. They are to follow television programmes due to the sign language which is now an official language in Kenya,” Wanyande said. He said Okombo was the director and pioneer of the Kenya research sign language project, noting that he introduced the sign language in the curriculum at the University of Nairobi. “Today, the University of Nairobi offers sign language as a course because of the contributions of the late Prof Okoth Okombo,” Wanyande said. As a contribution to his native Suba community, Prof Okombo managed to persuade the government to launch broadcast of programmes in Abasuba language in Kenya Broadcasting Cooperation (KBC) radio stations. Prof Wanyande said Okombo’s curriculum vitae do not do justice to the contribution that he made to scholarship. “We are sadly left with the option of talking about him. Those who are familiar with some of his unfinished academic and scholarly initiatives must not shy away from working on those projects and completing them as part of honouring him,” Wanyande added. Okombo assisted in formulation of language policy and published worldwide scholarly publications many African countries like Malawi, Zimbabwe, Ghana and South Africa. Present were professors Kithaka Wamberia, Peter Amula, Jane Oduor, Martin Ouma, Olang’ Sana, Kembo Sure, Thomas Onyango, Isaiah Nyandega among others. They described Prof Okombo as scholar who prioritized in offering his services to his countrymen more than monetary gain. Wamberia described him as an academician who had qualifications to teach in foreign universities which could offer better remuneration but he was reluctant to take up the jobs. “Prof Okombo dedicated his life to teaching.He was so passionate in his duties that he gave it his best,” Wamberia said. Prof Okombo’s social life and love for Lingala music was also illustrated by his colleagues. The late Prof Okombo graduated from the University of Nairobi with a Master of Arts Degree in 1979 and was immediatelyappointed as a tutorial fellow in the same department. He was promoted to the position of lecturer in 1984, when his research in the same field was already in progress. His submission of his thesis on “the Functional Paradigm and Dholuo Constituent Order” in 1986, and formerly graduated in 1987 with a Doctorate in Philosophy (Ph.D) in Linguistics and African Languages. His family led by his wife Naomi Okoth and elder son Brian Okoth described him as a pillar of the family. “Our father taught as to be courageous and to stand tall in our endeavours because he was our pillar of unity,” Brian said..    