Dear Mr President-elect, “I feel so disheartened, so aggrieved and so helpless. Yesterday, I felt bitter but this morning, Maya Angelou, from all the way in her grave, reminded me that bitterness is a tumour and will only eat at my well-being. Instead, I choose anger. True to Angelou’s words, I will use my anger and write. I will talk. I will not keep silent.  Will there be justice for all the lives lost and the victims in hospital from police brutality? Do you have a plan for them? Mr President-elect, I hope it’s top of your agenda! Mr President-elect, where was I in your victory speech yesterday? You boasted of “38 per cent” of registered Kenyan voters coming out to vote and “98 per cent” of them choosing you. As a statesman, you should know that this doesn’t give you bragging rights. Campaigns are over. It isn’t about Jubilee now. It’s about Kenyans. All Kenyans. Your job now is to work on the minds and hearts of those like me who feel excluded and that they don’t belong.  I am scared of who I am. I am scared to carry around my ID or being at the wrong place at the wrong time, yet I recognise my privilege; I know that I don’t live in an area where police can easily kick down my door to harass me. This isn’t true for everyone who carries a name like mine that betrays me, showing my tribe. Men, women and children in slum areas have been brutally killed, beaten down and raped simply because of their tribe. We can’t ignore that. Neither can you. I don’t want to be tribeless. I want to be Luo (and Kisii) and Kenyan. Diversity shouldn’t be a threat to unity. There can be unity in diversity. We as Kenyans showed the world this in 2010, when we all came together to vote for a Constitution that’s made it possible for me to freely express myself as I am doing today.  Mr President-elect, show us that you are here to serve ALL Kenyans, “irregardless” of where they come from, or whom they voted for, or not voted. Show us that you have a plan.  I will leave the house today with my ID and if anyone asks for it, I will show it. I will introduce myself with my name. I will not let my tribe fade into the background because of fear. This is my Kenya too. It belongs to all of us. We cannot be ignored. We cannot be wished away. Yours truly, “The 62%”. Fiona Nyong’o, 29 years old  October 31, 2017 Please notice the word “irregardless”: The President uses it with innocent equanimity. I personally don’t know when it crept into the English language. But the President and Fiona apparently do, although she puts it in quotation marks, meaning, perhaps, that she is still apologetic about it! Be that as it may, let us return to the essence of the letter.  This letter proves one thing to me: That the recent election did not cure one thing for most Kenyans like Fiona. And that thing is an incessant search for what Professor BA Ogot and Rev FB Welbourn once called “A Place to Feel at Home” “irregardless” of tribe. Perhaps 38 per cent of those who voted feel at home and the other 62 per cent don’t. Next time, if we do the same thing in the same way, the percentages may differ, and people may switch sides depending on the contestants for that coveted seat. But the “circulation of misery” will still remain the same, “irregardless” of which tribe suffers which fate. Human beings don’t normally behave that way. It seems irrational for human beings to let systems they have deliberately created sink them into perpetual misery when they have the knowledge and the ability to change such systems and create alternative and better ones. And here is where I differ with the recent National Council of Churches of Kenya proposal. The NCCK would like us to “change” the play by including more players in the same system, “irregardless” of the fact that the play will still be the same. It is further assumed, therefore, that the audience will be happy and pleased. I very much doubt that. By proposing that we create a post of Prime Minister and three other posts of Deputy Prime Ministers within the same system we have just “voted for”, we are simply adding insult to injury — more political players playing the same game will lead to the same outcome sooner rather than later. What is wrong with our present electoral system is that it forces us to elect only “one person” vested with enormous powers, which he or she can use for good or bad depending on who he or she perceives as having put him or her in power.  Unfortunately, our system is structured to make this game a contest between tribes, or a coalition of tribes. This is not necessarily bad, but but by its very nature, it leads to the politics of exclusion. We need to redesign it to lead to a politics of Inclusion, this is what Fiona is writing to the President about. In essence we shall have to look again at our 2010 Constitution in the wake of the recent elections so as to amend it to provide us with a better “election architecture” whose results will always provide all of us, “irregardless” of tribe, with a place to feel at home. We shall then prove to ourselves that we are real human beings, and that we are not like our dear old brother Mr Spider. The spider, for example, though he or she builds a very complicated and admirable web, which no human hand can copy, has done the same thing since Christ ascended to heaven. It is perhaps now a boring architectural sight even in the world of spiders but they simply know no better. We must know that we are different. God endowed us with the ability for discovery and innovation that we must now use to improve our election architecture for better results.  The better results I am talking about are results that create a parliamentary system of government with proportional representation. People will form political parties and the parties will choose candidates to contest in various constituencies as they do now. After the election, each party will have its MPs. The second step is that of proportional representation. For every 80,000 votes a party gets, it will nominate one MP. If the first member a party nominates is a man, the second one will be a woman and vice versa. This will ensure that minorities get effective representation in Parliament. Third, we will need to preserve special seats for the marginalised, as we do now. Parliament will then elect a PM from the party or coalition of parties that form the majority, and get at least 75 per cent of all members. This will provide a possibility for a wider and broader based government, which will go a long way to cure exclusion. The PM can be dismissed by three quarters of the MPs if and when a member moves a motion of no-confidence approved as proper by the House Business Committee. Many countries, as ethnically diverse as we are, or even more, have lived reasonably happily with this kind of system for years. Their nationalism is stronger than ours, their sense of identity with their nation much better than ours. Elections don’t become a do or die for them. In fact, they are frequently happier when they heavily defeat an incumbent government and welcome the opposition to power.  These countries are in both the developing and the developed world. Take Ghana in Africa, Jamaica in the Caribbean and New Zealand out there in “down under”. Let us make our choice today: Do we choose to circulate misery every five years or are we to be innovative and adopt a system which will make the results of elections make us feel at home?  I am glad that the debate has already started, and it should continue. It should not be confined to political parties. All Kenyans need to have their say now as we had in the nineties, notwithstanding the vicious attempts by the Daniel Moi regime to silence us.  Some of us were born with an incessant spirit to seek positive changes and progress in our society. Perhaps it is in our genes. We are called to serve, or so we believe. It is the life we enjoy, and that may be strange for those who worship things more earthly than we do. But that is life. It is full of diversity of all kinds. Be that as it may, I see us going back to Bomas. Having something like a National Citizens’ Convention where people from all walks of life can come and express their minds about how to get out of this constitutional and political crisis. It is a crisis. When those silent voices, such as Fiona’s, feel like writing to the President about it, know that issue perturbs many souls in Kenya.  Proposing a National Convention is, therefore, a very good idea that organisations like the NCCK should support and run with. Hopefully, this spirit will catch on, and with it will come the positive hope that another Kenya is possible.          