Bishop Cornelius Korir will be laid to rest today inside a tomb at the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret town. The tomb is raised above ground unlike in conventional practices where graves are dug for interment of bodies. Church leaders said this signifies that the bishop will still offer spiritual oversight over the faithful. Engineers completed construction of the tomb last night in readiness for the ceremony slated for 4pm. Only about 200 guests will be allowed into the burial site. "We are ready for the final rites and burial of our bishop," Father Frederick Njoroge said. He will be accorded the highest honours because he was still serving at the time of his death last Monday aged 67. Security has been tightened in Eldoret ahead of the funeral. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are among the guests at the funeral. Cardinal John Njue is leading all the bishops at the funeral.  The tomb where Bishop Cornelius Korir will be laid to rest in Eldoret, Saturday November 11, 2017. /COURTESY Korir's requiem mass was held on Friday evening in Eldoret. Family, friends and leaders eulogized him as a great church leader who touched the lives of many people countrywide. The service was led by Bishop Dominic Kimengich of Lodwar Diocese. Kimengich said the deceased valued peace and unity more than anything else. "If he was alive today he would be telling us to keep peace and ensure we are always united,"the Bishop said. Joseph Kimisoi from the Catholic Justice and Peace Commission said Bishop Korir had planned to meet Uhuru and NASA leader Raila Odinga. "The meeting was to broker lasting peace leading to reconciliation in the country," he said. Governors Jackson Mandago, Alex Tolgos and Stephen Sang, Agriculture CS Willy Bett were among those present. The governors said Korir had played a great role in peace efforts in the region and promised to complete his projects. Sang said the region will pray to God to provide a good replacement for Korir. "He has left a great legacy and it will leave on for many years," he said. CS Bett said Korir risked his life to fight for peace in Kerio Valley and his death should help us remember his work on peace.  PS Engineer John Mosonik who so Korir's brother in law said Korir was passionate about development in the country to uplift the lives of Kenyans. Senator Samson Cherargei of Nandi said Bishop Korir was a man of great wisdom and his replacement should be someone who will be strong  and committed. "The church should remain neutral and committed to its work the way Korir did," Cherargei said.  Bishop Cornelius Korir's burial ceremony at the Eldoret Sports Club, Saturday November 11, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar said Korir's peace work will forever be remembered. Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said Bishop Korir helped to develop many schools and the education sector in the country. Chairman of the Kalenjin Elders Major (rtd) John Seii said the death of Bishop Korir had robbed the country of a valuable peace maker. "We pray that whoever will take over from him will strive to fit in the big shoes he has left behind", said Seii. Businessman Bundotich Buzeki said he had met Korir during the last elections and the clergyman sought to know why he was vying for governor seat in Uasin Gishu. "He was our father and always wanted peace and that is why there was no big fallout between me and Mandago as some expected." Buzeki said he would support Mandago as he plans to be future governor in the area. "I hope you will nickname me as FG meaning future governor," Mandago said. Also present was former minister Henry Kosgey. Korir was born on 6th July 1950 in Bomet, in 1982 he was ordained as priest  and in1990 he became bishop of Eldoret where ordained more than 135 priests. MPs William Chepkut, Cornelius Serem and Sila Tiren were among those present.  