A section of Jubilee MPs on Wednesday told off NASA leader Raila Odinga over his proposal to have an interim government to run the country for six months. The lawmakers, in a presser at Parliament buildings, said Raila was pushing for a coalition government through unconstitutional means. The statement was read by nominated MP David ole Sankok. He said Raila's proposals were insincere, regrettable and unattainable adding that such negotiations on formation of government should only be done by the electorate. "We have been saying for a long time that Raila has been looking for a nusu-mkate government. We condemn the hypocrisy of opposition and hope that going forward they will engage on a platform of sincerity for the good of our nation." Sankok said dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila took place through the ballot during the October 26 repeat presidential election. "There is no any other road to State House except through the ballot. Raila should not be allowed to hold this country at ransom."  Sankok was flanked by MPs Gabriel Kago (Githunguri), Ruweida Obbo (Lamu women rep), Francis Waititu (Juja) and nominated MP Gideon Keter. "We are not surprised by Raila’s remarks. He should stay away from nusu mkate because he will not achieve it. There has never been any truth in his narrative," Keter said. On her part, Ruweida said: "We want Uhuru sworn-in because it is through him that we can prosper as a nation. We are tired of politics and want development." NASA leader Raila Odinga said on Tuesday he wants an interim government to run the country for six months while the constitution is reviewed to curb President Uhuru Kenyatta's authority. He told Reuters in an interview that he was open to talks with Uhuru over a constitutional review aimed at lowering the risk of violence from minority groups who feel excluded from power. Uhuru was re-elected with 98 percent of the vote on October 26 after Raila boycotted the election, saying it would not be fair. The repeat presidential vote followed an election in August, which Uhuru also won but which was nullified by the Supreme Court on procedural grounds. Raila's supporters have repeatedly protested against the results, and at least 51 people have been killed in the turmoil since August. This has generated an atmosphere of uncertainty in East Africa's richest economy. "A pure presidential system enhances ethnicity because each community believes that they are not safe unless their man is at the top," Raila said in the interview in his office. Read: Raila roots for six-month interim government for constitutional review