The October 26 fresh Presidential election proceeded because the Supreme Court suspiciously became paralysed at the last minute. Even if the election was a court order even if voting by Jubilee supporters iwas their constitutional right; even if opposition supporters were free not to participate, it is unjustified and a violation of Kenyans’ democratic rights to subject them to a deliberately adulterated election. It is worse when the exercise is openly skewed to favour one candidate. IEBC’s actions are openly treasonous because their subversion of the Constitution to facilitate an illegal conduct of elections fall squarely among acts that facilitate the formation of a government outside the provisions of the law. Their actions are equivalent to participating in a coup.  Where does that leave the people? Kenyans will never put the matter to rest until they get convincing explanations to justify the suspicious disappearances of Judges Smokin Wanjala, JB Ojwang’ and the Supreme Court’s firmly established “black sheep”, Justice Njoki Ndung’u. We also won’t do without proof of justice Mohammed Ibrahim’s illness and actual hospitalisation records. We smell a rat! As we hail Chief Justice David Maraga and Justice Isaac Lenaola for being readily available when called upon to serve the country at a critical time, and empathise with Deputy Chief Justice Philemona Mwilu for the suspected assassination attempt that ended up in the grievous gunshot injuries to her driver-cum-bodyguard Timothy Musyoka, we strongly suspect foul play, complicity or cold-blooded sabotage was at play. The quorum hitch needs to be investigated by a credible and independent team.  The Supreme Court ruling on September 1 ordered that a fresh election be conducted in strict adherence to the Constitution and electoral laws. Interestingly, those illegalities and irregularities proven and cited by the Court had been pointed out by us in the opposition and several key stakeholders ahead of the August 8 General Election. The leadership of the IEBC arrogantly snubbed the calls.  The IEBC ganged up with Jubilee leaders and went to overdrive on the defensive. Jubilee profiled the Judiciary, NASA, a progressive section of civil society and all Kenyan voices of reason for rubbishing and demonising.  More dangerously, a Jubilee leaning clique within the IEBC (commissioners and secretariat led by CEO Ezra Chiloba) captured the entire institution and started cannibalising the liberal and pro-Constitution minority.  Chebukati got isolated and terrorised as were commissioners Roselyn Akombe and Wanjala Mwachanya. On October 25, offended and hurting Kenyans hoped the Supreme Court could sit and interrogate whether the IEBC had addressed the illegalities and irregularities. We expected them to check whether the KIEMS kits had been properly installed, whether ballots and results transmission papers had been standardised to have proper security features and necessary safeguards, whether loopholes for tampering with tallies and whether criminal complicity by the IEBC and Jubilee rigging hit-men to tamper with KIEMS servers had been removed.  Instead, a National Holiday was mysteriously announced and Justice Mwilu attacked. Then the quorum hitch. Dereliction of duty or sabotage are punishable offences. Let the judges prove they did not commit either of the two.  