Former Meru Governor Peter Munya should not be given a state job because he failed to deliver votes for the President in the repeat elections, former Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi has said. Aburi alleged Munya insulted President Uhuru Kenyatta and accused Jubilee Party of rigging elections in the Meru governor race in the August 8 polls in favour of Kiraitu Murungi. “Munya’s home ward of Muthara did not vote. So Munya and his people did not vote for the President on October 26. The only job Munya should be given is that of abusing people,” he said on the phone yesterday. Aburi said Munya does not deserve a state job “because he did not add any value to the President’s campaigns.” “Meru people had already made up their minds from the August 8 elections on who to vote for. So Munya and his PNU party added no value to the President’s campaign and re-election,” he said. The head of state had on October 12 promised to give Munya a government post if he won the repeat elections. This was after the former governor, who is a PNU leader, defected to Jubilee, just a week after he pledged to support the opposition in the run up to the repeat presidential elections. He had accused the president’s party of manipulating the August 8 elections in favour of his nemesis and JP candidate, Kiraitu. Uhuru reaffirmed his pledge to award Munya with a position in government when he visited Meru. “After October 26, Munya will join us in the national government as I had promised,” Uhuru said at Laare in Meru. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission declared Uhuru the winner on Monday with 7.4 million votes in the elections that were boycotted by NASA leader Raila Odinga. Munya has filed a petition challenging the declaration of Kiraitu as the winner of the August 8 election. “The election was not free and fair. We witnessed a lot of irregularities. That is why we have filed the case,” Munya told his supporters on September 8. In his address to the supporters outside the High Court in Meru after a meeting with his lawyers, the ex-county boss exuded confidence he will win the case. It was impossible for him to get zero votes at Igembe Stadium polling station which is his stronghold. The former county boss said the fight against rigging will not stop if Kenyans relent in the push for justice. “It is questionable that half of the forms used by the IEBC in the Meru governor’s race in last months polls are missing.” But the governor, accompanied by his running mate in the recent polls Peter Kaberia and Senate loser Mugambi Imanyara, said he has done a lot by backing Jubilee.