The saying ‘whoever abandons their culture is a slave’ seems to have been overtaken by time. The moral and traditional values of old have given way to secular western lifestyles, leaving indigenous traditions to get eroded and die in the hands of the old, poor folks in the village. Those who try to sustain culture through songs, dances and concerts get fame, but fortune often eludes them. One such artiste is Mzee Joshua Kesses, 81, who leads jua kali dancers from Eldama Ravine in Baringo county. Kesses said it is only passion for his talent that has kept him singing since the 1950s. In his prime, his singing prowess took the veteran cultural instrumentalist and musician to State House to entertain former presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi. He fears that over the years, he and other cultural promoters might have been getting rewards in terms of money from leaders and their various funds, but they ended up in the hands of cartels. His last performance for a president, he recalled, was when he was called to sing for former President Moi during the New Year celebrations in the Nakuru State Lodge in 1996. “I was assigned someone to pay me Sh500,000 that I was promised by the head of state. But up to date, I have not set an eye on that person, and I am yet to receive the amount,” Mzee Kesses said. The worn-out singing and dancing costumes he now wears show how far he has fallen from grace. He derives his happiness only from being recognised as a veteran performer. “I would only want to reach people through my songs and instruments to preach peace and unity because we don’t want chaos in our country,” he said. “We also encourage people to preserve the environment and the natural resources.” All his three sons have followed in his footsteps. They are Joseph Kesses, Anthony Kipkoech and Kipkemoi. They were among the more than 35 talent groups who turned up during the music cultural festival at the Kenya School of Government in Baringo county on November 3. Mzee Kesses and his sons shone in almost all categories. Ten groups were chosen for the regional event in Laikipia county from Monday to Friday this week, before proceeding for the nationals in Kakamega county from December 1. The traditional four- and eight-stringed instruments Kesses uses, ‘Chemonges’ and ‘Chemengeng’ from Tugen origin, are as a result of his own artwork, and he composes the songs with help of his sons. “Apart from my calling to mentor young talents, I also would always aspire to maintain the spirit to fly higher the flag of my county and Kenya at large locally and internationally,” Kesses said. He said most of his songs in Kalenjin (Tugen) language carry peaceful messages rallying the warring pastoral communities to unite. The songs also urge them to abandon retrogressive practices, such as cattle rusting, FGM and early marriage. The old man said he has participated in music festivals several times and topped seven times nationally in competitions held at KICC, Mombasa and Kisumu since the 1980s. NOTHING TO SHOW “I have not gained anything much throughout my singing career, not even a single certificate, apart from only enjoying sodas that I just take free of charge when I participate in these events,” he said. He said he has 10 children but seven have dropped out of school for lack of school fees. Kesses said his life depends on his three crossbred cows and a half-acre land he inherited from his father at Arama village, Eldama Ravine sub-county. He said he has been surviving on the meagre resources he acquires from working for people as a casual labourer and proceeds from his farm produce. He uses the funds to attend ceremonies and competitions, but he earns nothing in return at the end of the events to take home. “I collect the proceeds from selling my cow’s milk to finance the transport of my sons and myself to functions. Sometimes we make some little money but not enough to cater for our basic needs,” Kesses said. He said they perform in ceremonies such as weddings, initiations such as pass-out during circumcisions, athletics events such as Chemususu Half Marathon, and national functions. Kesses said even in his old age, he keeps participating in cultural events, just in case a “God-sent person” one day recognises his efforts and rewards his tireless work. “With all my experience, I have never had the chance to entertain tourists coming to Kenya, but it is my wish that one day I will land the opportunity,” he said. Kesses said he has accumulated a number of cultural songs, enough to produce three albums, but he could not due to financial constraints, saying he is hoping to get sponsorship. TRAPPED IN POVERTY Kesses said unfortunately, he has nothing to give his sons as inheritance, apart from nurturing them to take over his stringed instruments when he retires, adding that he also has nothing to enjoy in his old age. “I fear if this is the trend I have gone through for many years continues, then the so-called rooted poverty will not get out soon from my family,” Kesses said. He said he has also watched many upcoming talents and the elderly being trapped up in miserable poverty and agony, although no one even among the leaders has ever talked of improving their lives. County director for culture Wickliff Martim said lack of funds is the major obstacle to nurturing talents. “As a county, we are using culture to promote peace and unity among the communities,” he said. Martim said all the Tugen, Ilchamus, Pokot and the Nubian communities from Baringo North, Central, Tiaty, Baringo South, Mogotio and Eldama Ravine subcounties were represented in the music cultural festival. County cultural chairman Peter Lekosek said in the nationals, the county only faces stiff competition from the talent groups of Uasin Gishu, “otherwise, we groom the best performers here in Baringo”, he said. Lekosek said the county has natural tourist attractions including Lake Baringo, Lake Bogoria and Lake Kamnarok. He said the talented groups should be employed permanently there to keep welcoming and entertaining tourists. FUNDING PLEDGE Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis recognised Kesses and praised him for his sharing his cultural talent with his sons, who can now perform in functions even better that their father. He said from next year, the county will channel more funds towards to the Culture and Youth department.  “I am calling upon the members of the county assembly to consider fast-tracking bills to increase funds for the ministry to promote culture and talents,” Kiptis said. Culture committee member Francisca Cheburet supported the move. “I am encouraged that we are headed in the right direction in culture promotion as a county,” she said, urging the youth to come out to practise and showcase their talents. Also recognised during the cultural event were the culture ambassadors representing the county’s communities. They are Kolem Benta (Pokot), Abigael Kipchumba (Tugen), Domongolei Moses (Pokot), Leonard Keis (Ilchamus) and Wesley Tunai (Tugen).