On 8 November 2016, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that high value currency notes would be withdrawn from the financial system overnight. He said it was part of a crackdown on corruption and illegal cash holdings. A year later, economist Praveen Chakravarty looks at the legacy of the controversial move. Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to extinguish 86% of the cash in the country overnight. He cancelled all 500 ($8; £6) and 1,000 rupee notes and replaced them with a newly designed 500 rupee and a newly introduced 2,000 rupee note, This move was erroneously described as demonetisation and the name has stuck. Technically it is not demonetisation but a refurbishment. In his speech on 8 November, Mr Modi said the primary motives for demonetisation were threefold - to eradicate black money, remove counterfeit currency, and stop terror financing. He embarked on a three-day state visit to Japan the morning after the announcement. By the time he returned, all hell had broken loose. There were serpentine queues of people to withdraw their own cash from bank ATMs. Millions of families were left stranded with no cash. Weddings were cancelled, small shops downed shutters and economic activity was disrupted. This should not have surprised anyone since more than 95% of all consumer transactions in India are in cash. Mr Modi returned from Japan and immediately sought to address the people of India about the state of disarray. He now claimed that demonetisation was needed to propel India to a cashless and digital economy. In speeches on demonetisation that Mr Modi gave after his return from Japan, he used the phrase "cashless or digital" three times more than the phrase "black money" while in his 8 November announcement, there was no mention of "cashless or digital" at all. Within a matter of weeks, "demonetisation" went from being an attempt to flush out undeclared wealth to a magic wand to turn a poverty-stricken nation into a cashless economy. The bravado was both admirable and laughable. Ironically, Japan, the country that Mr Modi visited soon after his exercise to ostensibly rid India of its cash 'fetish', has the highest cash to GDP ratio of all major economies. It is unclear why a pursuit of a cashless economy should suddenly be India's most important economic priority. This change in narrative was inevitable since the three premises for the demonetisation exercise were dubious to begin with. Demonetisation could not have eliminated black money since it was well documented by various research studies that less than 6% of illicit wealth in India was held in cash. So, invalidating 90% of the stock of currency notes to catch 6% of illegal wealth was a clear case of using a hammer to kill a fly.