Police fired tear gas to control people who tried to force themselves into Kasarani stadium for Uhuru Kenyatta's coronation on Tuesday. "Haki yetu, Haki Yetu (Our right)," the supporters mostly dressed in Jubilee Party colours shouted as they pushed past police.  Officers blocked them and beat some, leaving several injured. Some received first aid while others were taken to Kenyatta National Hospital. The officers were seen chasing after some while others made it past the gates.  Policemen carry an injured man after police fired tear gas to try to control a crowd at Kasarani stadium ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing-in, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS  People barge into the stadium grounds ahead of the inauguration of Uhuru Kenyatta at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS Police on horseback and ambulances were seen at the venue. Security is tight and all attendees must be checked as they will witness the ceremony alongside more than 20 heads of state or senior ministers. Read: Security tight hours to Uhuru's swearing-in, 60,000 expected Also read: Koome names red zones, talks tough on security for Uhuru swearing-in Opposition leader Raila Odinga, who boycotted the October 26 re-run of the presidential poll, has called a protest rally, despite a police ban. The National Super Alliance is planning a memorial service at Jacaranda grounds for supporters killed during demonstrations.  Policemen walk ahead of the inauguration of President Uhuru Kenyatta at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS  People barge into the stadium grounds ahead of the inauguration of Uhuru Kenyatta at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi, November 28, 2017. /REUTERS August's presidential election was annulled by the Supreme Court over what it called "irregularities". The re-run saw Uhuru win 98 per cent of the vote with a turnout of just under 39 per cent. Raila reiterated on Tuesday, during an interview on BBC, that Uhuru is an illegitimate leader.. More on this: Uhuru still illegitimate president, resistance on, Raila tells BBC  Read: We will not cancel memorial service for anyone, says NASA Click here for the latest political news  