The Business Daily of Wednesday, November 8, reported on its front page, “KQ is to pay ex-finance boss Sh144m for sacking.” This followed the boss’s successful case in a labour dispute court, in which he sued KQ for wrongful dismissal from his heftily remunerated job. The boss, Alex Mbugua, was the finance director of Kenya Airways at the time that I chaired a Select Committee of the Senate that looked into matters that were ailing the national carrier, and adversely affecting its future. That was in July to December 2015. During those hearings Mbugua was really the spokesperson of the Kenya Airways management team. If I remember well, he took complete ownership of the Mawingo Project, the ambitious expansion initiative that almost sank the national carrier into the doldrums of irredeemable indebtedness and hopeless attempts to gain financial viability. Fortunately, the Senate intervened in time, brought issues to the forefront, made the shareholders aware of inherent problems in the management of the national carrier and recommended a recipe for a turnaround programme. One of the strong recommendations we made was for the complete revamping of management and the Board of Directors. We also recommended that two top positions must be put in the hands of two internationally proven “performers” at turning around failing but viable big enterprises. This could pilot the recovery process through tough decisions that could put such a company as KQ on a solid recovery foundation. These two positions were the chairman of the Board and the chief executive officer. Kenyans have tremendous hope in Michael Joseph as chairman and Sebastian Mikosz as the new CEO. They have both made significant changes in the top management of KQ and we are looking forward to positive changes. Now back to our ex-finance director Mr Mbugua. Before Employment and Labour Relations judge Monica Mbaru, Mbugua averred that he was sent packing from KQ’s management as “part of a vindictive scheme by current and former top managers to conceal plunder at the airline.” Now this is a very serious allegation. It essentially means that, when the Senate Select Committee — which I chaired — was meeting, Mbugua knew exactly who was responsible for the plunder of Kenya Airways, and never revealed this to us. I would suggest that the KQ Board should look further into the plunder of the airline and review the Hansard records to find out where Mbugua committed perjury before a Senate Select Committee since such sittings have the powers of the High Court in accordance with Article 125( 2 ) of the Constitution. My colleagues, with whom we had lengthy discussions with the management of Kenya Airways, will remember how puzzled we were regarding the whole logic behind the Mawingo Project. It involved the purchase of nine Dreamliners, the sale (at throw away prices) of some very viable aeroplanes, the offshore companies in Cayman Islands, Jersey Island etc, and their intricate business transactions with KQ, code sharing arrangements with KLM, etc. Mbugua, knowing pretty well how the national carrier was taken to the cleaners by fellow managers, particularly former CEOs Titus Naikuni and Ngunze Mbuvi, was extremely eloquent in rationalising all decisions that they, as management, made. The Hansard will bear me out on this. But let us proceed. The lead article in the daily newspaper I have referred to goes on to say, “Employment and Labour Relations Judge Monica Mbaru yesterday ruled that Mr Mbugua, WHO HELD THE POSITION (OF FINANCE DIRECTOR) for eight years, was not given a fair hearing in the disciplinary proceedings, which were commenced against him before termination.” Therefore, concluded Lady Mbaru, “the claimant is hereby reinstated.” I have a problem with this. The conclusion by the judge is that since some laid down procedure for dismissal was not followed, Mbugua must, therefore, resume his job and be compensated heavily for having been wronged. But look at it this way. Supposing we argue that for eight good years, holding such an important position as the finance director, Mbugua violated almost every procedure, rule and the mores of transparent and accountable management that proved extremely detrimental to Kenya Airways. If he did not do so himself, then he sat by watching his bosses do that and had absolutely no moral courage to report this to the Board or quit the airline in disgust. Why should such a quisling and moral coward be sympathised with, when he is summarily dismissed for abuse of office or gross negligence of his duties? But let me continue with what Judge Mbaru averred. “The Labour Court also found that though the arguments raised by the national carrier to justify Mr Mbugua’s sacking were reasonable (ah haa!), they were insufficient (by what criteria ,may I ask?) to warrant the termination.” If I were the KQ management, I would appeal against this reasoning forthwith and get an honest, intelligent and solid lawyer with integrity to pin both Mbugua and Mbaru down for this voodoo legal reasoning to let Mbugua off the hook. Yes, lawyer John Njomo argues that his client was competent and qualified. But so was Richard Nixon, when he was elected for a second term in office in 1972, only for Americans to discover that, behind all that competence and qualification, was a crook who was determined to break every law in the book to be President. The law, indeed, can be an ass when crooks use it to climb up the high pedestal of virtue simply by manipulating legal procedures. Now, I am surprised Mbugua claimed before the court that he was the one who raised the alarm on irregular ticketing practices in some stations such as London (why did he omit Nairobi and Luanda?) and recommending a review of KQ’s relationship with KLM. On the latter issue, the Senate Select Committee is the one that made this recommendation following the dithering and procrastination of the KQ management to come out with any definitive suggestion regarding what needed to be done on this very unhappy and dysfunctional commercial marriage. Before the Senate Select Committee, Mbugua never revealed to us that “KQ’s massive losses should be blamed on Ngunze and former commercial director Gerard Clarke since they failed in their duties of ensuring the airline collects the targeted revenues.” On the contrary, I recollect him going out of his way to explain to us that revenues had fallen due to the loss of some very critical equipment in West Africa in fatal accidents, the frequent and rather unfortunate travel advisories by Western countries, the Ebola outbreak, etc. Why was he deliberately and eloquently concealing evidence before a Senate Select Committee? Why was he missing that golden opportunity to “lift the lead off the pot of lies” that, according to him now, Ngunze told us in his own testimonies? A plague upon both their houses! Playing the good boy now, Mbugua now claims that he is the one “who initiated the Deloitte forensic audit that Ngunze and Dennis Awori were now bent on using to have him prosecuted!” This could as well be true, but the sequence of events need to be checked very meticulously before we believe the innocence of this latest kid on the block in the fight against corruption and inefficiency at KQ. If my memory serves me right, I never detected any difference between Ngunze and Mbugua when it comes to lifting the lid off the pot of corruption breweries at KQ, when both appeared before our committee. Try as we could, the two were symbiotic twins in defending their track records at the national carrier.   Kisumu governor