Safaricom, Brookside and Bidco products have recorded a drop in sales since Thursday last week, following an economic boycott call on the products by the countrys opposition. According to retailers and dealers of the firms in the opposition strongholds majorly Kisumu, Mombasa and Nairobi, outlets have reduced orders for services produced/given by three companies. A spot check at Choppies supermarkets with five outlets spread within Kisumu town have reportedly reduced their stock orders from the said companies. “I will resume buying the products when directed by our leaders. Nothing comes easy and we are ready to sacrifice for the sake of justice and democracy,” one of the customers in the region, Maureen Otieno, said. Bidco and Brookside products ordered by the outlets are now being sold on special offer to lure customers, despite not being bought by consumers. A worker at one of the Choppies outlets said the demand for Tuzo, Molo, Dairy Fresh, Delamere and Ilara products have declined. “Most customers only ask for products which are not associated with the three companies. They only want those that Baba (Raila Odinga) has okayed,” he said. He added that most of the boycotted products ordered on Sunday are still lying on the shelves. “Before the boycott announcement, these products used to sell fast,” he added. Bidco products such as Soya, Golden, Ufuta, Kimbo, Sungold and Elianto are still on the shelves and stores, he claimed. Some of the products are now being sold on special offer to lure customers. Other outlets which have recorded a reduction of stock as the demand for the products has drastically declined include Tumaini supermarket, Naivas and Tuskys. On Thursday, Safaricom dealers noted that the boycott has sharply affected their businesses, and if it continues, at least one million people will lose their jobs across the entire value chain. This comes even as the Communications Authority of Kenya called on leaders to stop making utterances that may hurt the economy. In a statement, the authority noted that the information, communication and technology sector is a key contributor of revenue to the government, and if tampered with will lead to massive job losses. The Kenya Private Sector Alliance also condemned the boycott calls. “We strongly object to any boycotts,” Kepsa said in a statement. Kepsa said they will stand by all the targetted companies and those who may be targetted in future. Airtel Kenya seems to be the major beneficiary so far of boycott calls. “I am able to sell ten lines in 20 minutes at Sh50. The call rate is also cheap compared to Safaricom,” he said.