The Catholic Church will confer its highest honours on Bishop Cornelius Korir and perform befitting rites during his burial in Eldoret on Saturday. His body will be clothed in the vestments he loved most. The funeral will be marked by the most solemn rituals in line with the Catholic traditions. All Catholic bishops, including Cardinal John Njue, are expected to attend. Korir, 67, died on October 30. He suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure. “He was a highly respected bishop and we’ll give him the best send-off,” Father Fredrick Njoroge of the Eldoret diocese said yesterday. Burial plans have been finalised and the gravesite is amost complete. The burial site was locked up yesterday after many residents tried to see the area. Construction was underway. Korir had eight more years to serve the church in an official capacity.  A bishop who dies in office is to be interred inside a cathedral. Korir’s resting place will be a room behind an altar, inside the Sacred Heart Cathedral. A state funeral will be conducted at the Eldoret Sports Club. Thousands of people are expected to pay their last respects. President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, international and local guests, diplomats, and politicians are expected at the burial. The Catholic Church yesterday released the funeral programme. Governors and other political leaders have been attending daily masses at the cathedral in honour of the bishop. The body will be moved from the Moi Referral Hospital tomorrow to the Cathedral at 10am. This will be followed by four hours of public viewing. Then there will be a night vigil on the eve of the burial on Saturday. Korir was born in Bomet. Governor Joyce Laboso will lead a county delegation to the funeral. On Saturday, the clergyman’s body will be escorted in a procession for two kilometres from the Cathedral through Eldoret town to the Eldoret Sports Club along the Kisumu road where a funeral service will take place. “We expect the service to last for five hours — between 10am and 3pm — before burial at the cathedral,” Father Njoroge said. In Kenya, four Catholic bishops have been buried inside their churches. They are former Nyeri Bishop Gatimu Ngandu in 1987, his successor Nicodemus Kirima in 2007, Tiberious Mugendi of Kisii in 1993 and bishop Longinus Atundo of Bungoma in 1996. Yesterday, Kalenjin Welfare Association chairman Murkelda Ngeny said the community and the country had lost a gallant peace warrior, fighter for human rights and justice whose wisdom and vision will be greatly missed. “He leaves a very rich legacy mainly because of his peace work. We join the church in mourning his death,” Ngeny said.