Mutahi Kahiga has been sworn in as the fourth Governor of Nyeri county following the death of Wahome Gakuru. The Deputy Governor was inaugurated on Monday at a colourful ceremony filled with ululations, claps and whistling. Wearing a grey suit, blue shirt and a striped tie, Kahiga greeted dignitaries who included Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. He then proceeded to the Governor's seat. Gakuru, 51, was on his way to Nairobi for a morning talk show at Kameme TV when his vehicle was involved in an accident near Kabati on Thika-Muranga highway. Gakuru was only in office for about 90 days as he was elected in the August 8 general election. He was a governor aspirant in the 2013 race but lost to the late Nderitu Gachagua.  More on this: Nyeri Governor, driver rushed to hospital after grisly accident Also see: [VIDEO] Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua dies from cancer Interdenominational prayers to re-dedicate the county, its offices and workers took place in the morning ahead of Kahiga's inauguration. More than 20 bishops and other members of the clergy, led by Bishop Paul Wanjohi of New Life Church, arrived at around 9am. They held prayers at the gate, sprinkled anointing oil and moved from office to office blessing the premises and staff.  Bishops and other members of the clergy, led by Bishop Paul Wanjohi of New Life Church (left,) pray for Mutahi Kahiga (facing him on the right) at the county premises ahead of his swearing-in as Nyeri Govervnor, November 13, 2017./WAMBUGU KANYI  Business came to a standstill at the busy offices as the clergy men committing every office to God. They later blessed Kahiga and his team and clarified that the ceremony was not a cleansing but a re-dedication ceremony to hand everything over to God. Kahiga said religious leaders can visit whenever they please and hold prayers and meetings at the boardroom. "Our message was simple; to re-dedicate our county government to God. We wanted to increase faith and hope in God," he said. The Bishop said they set aside an hour for the prayers for the sake of reassurance and revising hope.  Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri noted he joined them as he supports initiatives for better relationships with God. Curious members of the public followed the events from a distance. Kahiga earlier said he was sure about leading the county in the right direction. He said said he was confident as the governor had faith in him. Read: I'm sure I will steer Nyeri to greater heights, says Mutahi Kahiga  