Anyone who refuses to admit that the economy has gone south is either living in denial, doing PR or being an utter dunderhead. The government is in the first category; Treasury CS Henry Rotich falls in the second; while a host of pro-system functionaries with designer media soundbites populate the fool’s paradise category. It’s pitiful how some emissaries from Kepsa and the KNCCI joined media hounds and misguided themselves on the impact of boycotts and demos, which have exposed the fragile economy. Safaricom registered a Sh20 billion hole within a week of boycott of its products. For the last four years we have been in denial of a disastrous borrowing spree, pirating from John to pay Peter, and sinking further into debt. It was not for lack of money, but poor use of public money. As of July 2017, we had gobbled up Sh712.14 billion in unnecessary expensive commercial foreign debt from a low of Sh57.46 billion when Jubilee took over in April 2013. State enterprises are in debt. Kenya Power owes Sh226 billion, KenGen Sh229 billion, Kenya Railways Sh124 billion and Kenya Airways Sh120 billion. We trot towards the trillion-mark when government replaces borrowers in banking halls to compound the domestic debt. Borrowed cash splashed on grandiose projects is on the impetus of corruption. A Sh83 billion syndicated loan was imbibed in less than four months to the August 8 election. Now Rotich is Euro-bound for another Eurobond to cover the previous one. We know we are broke when triple taxation through road tolls is the prime revenue collection mode. The county governments have not received their allocations; pensioners are not paid and salaries are spent by mid-month. Pockets are empty and hunger bites. Kenyans cannot afford food, clothing, housing and medical care, even as they become debtors. Moody’s downgraded Kenya’s credit rating on account of the increasingly precarious debt, which is set to rise to 60 per cent of the GDP over the next seven months. This means Kenya’s interest payments will go up. And up in smoke will go the cheap financing. This is bad for the private sector and taxpayers. The country is broke as it guzzles expensive commercial loans and avoids concessionary loans from Bretton Woods institutions to avoid austerity conditions of good governance. But to Rotich the financial outlook couldn’t be rosier. In the last four years Coca-Cola trimmed outlets and relocated; Bank of Africa, Standard Chartered, Ecobank, Family, Sidian and KCB, plus Toyota Kenya, East African Portland Cement, Postal Corporation of Kenya, Telcom Kenya, Kenya Meat Commission and Oserian Ltd shed off workers. Premier investments Sameer Africa, Eveready East Africa, Cadbury’s, Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation, Reckitt & Benkiser, Procter & Gamble, Bridgestone, Colgate Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson and Unilever are all in trouble. Nakumatt Supermarkets is dying. Dominion Rice Farms in Yala Swamp has sacked over 350 workers because of a cash crisis. Workers are owed Sh350 million in salary arrears. All sugar factories are on the brink of closure. One misses the honesty of Simeon Nyachae, who in 1998 warned citizens of a broke country about corruption and was sacked for it. Not once has Rotich ever alluded to corruption’s corrosive effect or interventions to protect the Kenyan tax shilling. Lest Rotich forgets, boycotts helped to end Apartheid in South Africa and slavery in the US, as well as the success of Western picketers against environmental degradation of fossil oils and ocean mining. Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com