Coast leaders on Friday annouced that they will start the process of breaking away from Kenya, so the region can attain self-rule. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi led more than 12 MPs, senators and woman representatives in announcing their plan to secede because of what they described as marginalisation by successive administrations since Independence. “We are telling our people that because the previous administrations and this Jubilee administration have failed to listen to us, then we must find another way to have our voices heard,” Joho said. The leaders hope they will be able to breakaway, but should that option fail, they will push for semi-autonomy. Jubilee’s Suleiman Shahbal, who lost to Joho in the August 8 election, dismissed the move as “a big joke”. Joho and Kingi, who had declared interest to run for the presidency in 2022, seem to have shelved their ambitions and are now focussing on the Coast’s independence. In a statement read by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, the announcement is expected to elicit a lot of reaction from both the citizens and the national government. “We wish to state that since Independence, successive governments have marginalised and to date continue to marginalise and oppress our people,” it said. “Therefore, those governments have no moral authority to govern us. It’s no longer feasible for us as a people to continue in a country that does not recognise our aspirations as legitimate.” Calls for self-rule were started by the outlawed secessionist group the Mombasa Republican Council several years back. The group has since shelved the ambitions and is now supporting the government. “It’s impossible for a Kenyan coming from a small ethnic group to dream of becoming president in this republic. Therefore, there is need for Coast to secede and be led by its people,” Kingi said. The Coast region has six counties — Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Tana River and Taita Taveta. Four governors — Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Fahim Twaha (Lamu), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta) and Dado Godana of Tana River — were conspicuously absent during the declaration. residents to deliberate Joho said they will engage the local leadership and the citizens in a series of meetings on secession until they achieve their ambitions. “We already have a framework and strategies in place,” he said, adding three lawyers, Kingi, Madzayo and Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki will lead the process. “They will lead the process through legal means. We [those with no background in law] will lead the political process.” Those present during the meeting were MPs Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), William Kamoti (Rabai), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and Paul Katana (Kaloleni). Others were Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Jones Mulolwa (Voi), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Badi Twalib of Jomvu, Ali Mbogo of Kisauni and Mombasa woman representative Asha Hussein. Senators Jones Mwaruma (Taita Taveta), Mohamed Faki (Mombasa) and Issa Juma Boy (Kwale) also attended. The history surrounding secession started as early as 1895, when Coast residents, disenfranchised by political and economic marginalisation, started pushing for self-determination. Before Independence, the 10-mile coastal belt running from Witu in the north to Vanga in the south, was leased to Britain, then Kenya’s colonial master, from the dominion of the Zanzibari sultanate. The late President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta signed documents incorporating the Coast into the newly independent Kenya. This took place under specific conditions. There were dissenting voices in the region who wanted their own government. The MRC, formed in 1999, fired up the debate a few years later when the country was being rallied behind the agitation for a new Constitution. The debate raged during the 2013 election, resulting in the loss of lives. The 1963 call was led by Mwambao. The separatists’ main fear of a unified Kenya was that upcountry people were “aggressive, educated and sophisticated”. Locals feared losing jobs and land. Politically, they felt inferior. Religiously, they were apprehensive about mosques being desecrated. The Miji Kenda subtribes opposed their transfer to Kenya. They trashed the 1895 agreement between Britain and Zanzibar, claiming it was entered by foreigners without their consent. A letter from Jomo Kenyatta to the Prime Minister of Zanzibar dated October 5, 1963, outlining the obligations under which the territory was transferred to mainland Kenya, sealed an agreement between the two governments. Consequently, the secession talk fizzled out, only to sprout two years before the current Constitution was promulgated. Before the controversial October 26 ballot, NASA leaders from the region sent signals of secession talk. Kingi and six legislators said they will push for secession of the Coast region if the electoral agency insisted the rerun had to go on without reforms. Kingi said secession will be for the benefit of residents.