The constitution of House committees and the list of representatives to EALA  is set to spark fresh supremacy battles between Jubilee and NASA, as MPs resume sittings today. Top on the agenda of the Senate and the National Assembly, which are resuming House business after a three-week break, will be the formation of committees. Jubilee plans to use its numerical strength in the bicameral Parliament to bag positions of chairmen and their deputies of all the committees, besides the two — Public Accounts- and the Public Investments committees, whose leadership is reserved for the opposition. In the last Parliament, the Senate had a mixture of Jubilee and Cord senators chairing committees, but the opposition legislators found themselves in awkward positions responding and defending the government during question time. Another matter that will open a new warfront is the nomination of people for the nine available slots in the East African Legislative Assembly. Had the two nominated their representatives in the 11th Parliament, NASA was entitled to four slots, while the ruling party was entitled to five. Jubilee now wants six slots, saying it has more members elected to the 12th Parliament. “We are ready to transact the business of the House as it will appear in the Order Paper. We have the numbers to do that. Whether NASA attends or boycotts is up to them,” National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said.   Key committees in the National Assembly  include the powerful committee on Administration and National Security, Agriculture, Livestock and Co-operatives, Defence and Foreign Relations, Education, Research and Technology, Energy, Communication and Information, Environment and Natural Resources, Health, Justice and Legal Affairs, Labour and Social Welfare, Lands and Transport , and Public Works and Housing. All these committees fall under departmental committees. Then there are two oversight committees, which are reserved for the opposition — the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Investment Committee. Under the new Standing Orders, there will be a new watchdog committee — the Special Funds Accounts Committee — to be chaired by an independent MP.There are eight select committee, including the Constitution Implementation Oversight and Regional Integration.