This has been a
political season like none other.  Now we know
what happens when an election is nullified and a rerun called. If allowed to
start, Uhuru Kenyatta’s second term will begin under the cloud of legitimacy
questions perpetuated by an increasingly militant opposition. He is therefore
likely to be more cautious and measured in his approach to things and this is
not the kind of second term he had in mind. We are likely to see a cheerless
leader who will be increasingly detached from affairs of State.  The man to
watch in issues government will be his deputy, William Ruto. Going forward, he
is most likely to be the mover of things and will progressively stand out more
and claim his space in the sun. With 2022 firmly in his sights, he will be
consolidating his forces and keeping all the plans in place for a duel against
whoever the opposition will raise. By all indications, Raila Odinga is not
about to exit the political scene and will therefore be the focus of Ruto’s
powerful arsenal. Deep inside, Ruto
is probably much less tolerant than Uhuru. He is regarded as being
unscrupulously Machiavellian, unlike his boss, who tends to look for the good
in people (much to his detriment) and is often pained by the suffering of
people. Being strictly abstemious and wont to put long hours into government
business, Ruto is likely to be more like former President Daniel Moi, who often
left State House at 3 am, only to be back by 5 am. And, like Moi, he never
suffers fools gladly. However,
questions have been raised on the dual Kikuyu-Kalenjin power arrangement
with issues of exclusion and marginalization casting a grim shadow over his
candidacy. Already, talk of secession has now gained new currency with the
Coast leaders arranging themselves into a Catalan-like secession drive. Ruto
must now quell these issues and also move faster to contain divisive moves by a
more belligerent opposition. There is also a push for constitutional changes
that will likely frustrate his quest for the presidency. There is also
his backyard – the Rift Valley – which has suffered from fractious
intraregional turf wars that have pitted his side of the Jubilee Party and Kanu,
led by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi.  Aside from
that, Ruto must also reach out to Central Kenya, having proven himself by
vigorously standing with Uhuru Kenyatta in the last election.   