F or a countryside holiday, the Aberdares Country Club is a delightful retreat in the central highlands. The picturesque lodge has a colonial design with red tile roofs, long veranda, carpeted interiors and wood-panelled dining area. Beautiful peacocks have the run of the place, their loud cries piercing the cool air. Warthogs and waterbucks often graze in the gardens. We stayed in the regular cottages, which have a fireplace, a welcome feature since this area gets quite chilly at night. For the older people in our group, the hotel allocated them rooms closer to the main reception. The lodge was built many years ago, and although the bathrooms look recently refurbished, the rest of the bedroom needs upgrading and beds replaced. Meals are taken in a dining area overlooking the well-tended lawns and flower bushes and beyond to the Laikipia plains. On a clear morning, you can see the summit of Mt Kenya in the east. The food was excellent, with plenty of options on the buffet and pleasant restaurant staff. Generally, all the hotel staff are warm and welcoming. Later in the day, the garden chairs were a nice place to relax with afternoon tea or beer. We took a nature walk in the hotel’s private wildlife conservancy and came across giraffes, zebras, monkeys, different kinds of antelopes and birds. There is a gym, sauna and nine-hole golf course. Horse riding and the swimming pool area were popular with families that had younger children. One morning, we went on a game drive in the nearby Aberdare Park using our vehicle. When it rains, a four-wheel drive is advisable, because the murram roads get muddy and slick. We saw lots of buffalo, bushbucks and even a herd of giant, black forest hogs. We didn’t see any elephants, but there were plenty of signs, such as large dung balls and tree trunks smeared with mud, where they scratch their bodies. The best sighting was of a large leopard hiding in the bush. For a longer holiday, an overnight stay at the Ark Lodge inside the park is a nice inclusion your holiday.   Location: Nyeri county, three-hour drive from Nairobi Access: Via the Nyeri-Nyahururu Road/B5 Contacts: Marasa Africa, tel. 020-2101333, 0737-799990, reservations.ke@marasa.net   Star Rating:  4/5