Opposition leader Raila Odinga is scheming to extort money from companies through its boycott plan, Deputy President William Ruto has claimed. NASA legislators on Friday asked its supporters not to use Safaricom, Bidco Industries and Brookside products and services. This is part of their strategy to pile pressure on the government to listen to their demand. Suba North MP Millie Odhaimbo said they will periodically name more companies whose products NASA supporters should boycott. "We ask our people to stick to the list that we will provide from time to time," she said during a press conference at Okoa Kenya's office in Nairobi.  Read: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott But Ruto has urged corporates not to fall prey to the latest scheme by the National Super Alliance. In a series of tweets, Ruto termed as criminal the Opposition's listing of companies to be affected by the boycott.  He wrote: "That companies have to 'donate' to supremo to avoid listing in the brazen and bizarre extortion racket-styled 'economic boycott'? Criminal! "As GOK, we ask all companies to continue to partner with Kenyans, pay taxes only to KRA and reject the extortion scheme-styled economic boycott." Elgeyo Marakwet Senator and Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said NASA's calls are a fundraising ploy. He claimed the coalition is broke and has now resorted to blackmail to raise funds from companies. "NASA leaders led by Tinga (Raila Odinga) are soliciting bribes from companies to avoid naming them in the boycott list. It's not a boycott...they are just broke," he tweeted. Speculation is rife in the political circles that NASA does not have the economic muscle to mount a successful economic boycott campaign. They say this is because the coalition missed out on the Political Parties Fund after it failed to garner enough votes in the October 26 repeat poll to qualify for the privilege. The law requires that a party must win at least five per cent of total vote to be entitled to public funding. During the repeat poll, Raila, who withdrew, garnered a paltry 73,228 votes which translates to 0.96 per cent. This means NASA and its four affiliate parties will miss out on the Sh371.2 million which the Registrar of Political Parties set aside for sharing among parties this year. Read also: Is the problem law or Raila? Ruto asks on national resistance Talk about NASA being cash trapped first emerged soon after the annulment of the August 8 polls by the Supreme Court. This was after the coalition launched a pay bill number on September 8 and urged well wishers to contribute towards their campaigns ahead of the repeat presidential election. Raila said the contribution amounted to buying a ticket to Canaan, the Biblical promised land which he equated to the freedom he would deliver Kenyans if he won the election. The pay bill netted Sh20 million in just a week. Read: Buy Canaan ticket by giving money for NASA campaigns, Raila tells Kenyan