A deal agreed upon by KNUN, the Council of Governors and the government has ended a strike that began more than 150 days ago. CoG Chairman Josphat Nanok (Turkana) said the agreement followed a lengthy consultative meeting within all stakeholders. They discussed the strike that began on June 5 and left many patients across the country stranded. The nurses were threatened with loss of their jobs and the council had warned the strike could completely cripple the health sector if unresolved. Negotiations hit dead ends when nurses refused to back down on the demands detailed in their collective bargaining agreement. Marches took place in many counties, nurses acknowledging patients' suffering but insisting the sector needed improvement. More on this: Nurses turn down governors offer to end strike, dialogue Also read: Governors call crisis meeting to end biting nurses' strike Nanok noted the industrial action was prolonged after it became the subject of "so many months of back and forth". "We have reached a consensus that the nurses will get a uniform allowance of Sh15,000 between 2018 and 2019, and that it will be increased by Sh5,000 over three years," he told the press on Thursday. Nanok added that the health workers will be entitled to Nursing Services Allowances of Sh23,000 which will be increased by Sh3,500 over the same period. "We have agreed that within 30 days, a CBA will be formulated and signed. The union's leaders agreed to call off the strike before close of business on November 3." The county chief said they also agreed to withdraw all salary cases from courts. "All withheld nurses salaries will be deposited in their accounts by end of November and all court cases related to industrial action withdrawn," he said. But Health CS Cleopa Mailu said the changes on allowances and uniforms will be factored into the budget for the 2018/19 financial year. Mailu said they all agreed that the government will not be able to incur extra expenses in the 2017/18 financial year,. "Though we end the strike today, I would say what has happened to the health sector in the last 12 months is regrettable," he added. "We would not wish to take such a route again. It has been a long and tedious journey but all in all, we have manged to strike a deal." While making the official announcement, union secretary general Seth Panyako said it was regrettable that their issues were not resolved as soon as they were raised. Panyako noted the need for all stakeholders to continue engaging on service delivery so the sector improves.