An activist has petitioned the Judicial Service Commission to stop three Supreme Court judges from hearing the case challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta's October 26 election. Kelvin Njihia wants Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, Justices Ibrahim Mohamed, and Isaac Lenaola barred from presiding over the case. He argues that Justice Ibrahim should be barred because of his physical incapacity. The judge's illness was pronounced by Chief Justice David Maraga during the determination of the petition filed by NASA leader Raila Odinga on the August 8 election. "The said judge has failed to perform his duty and has been missing in office as a judge of the Supreme Court," Njihia says. He avers that the issue, despite its seriousness, has not been addressed by the JSC or the Chief Justice. "The continued absence of the judge is enough proof of his physical incapacity to carry out his duties." Justice Maraga recently told parties in a case filed by MUHURI boss Khelef Khalifa, on the impact of Raila's withdrawal, that judge Ibrahim was being treated outside the country. He said this was one of  the reasons the apex court could not hear the case which sought to stop last month's polls. Njihia further says it is wrong for Ibrahim to miss work but continue receiving a salary and enjoying other benefits. "His absence is is hurting and injuring the functions of the Supreme Court as decisions of the court are supposed to be made by an odd number. They have now been left to an even number thus a matter which needs a vote will be faced with difficulties and will serve as injustice." Njihia wants the  judge removed from office on grounds of incapacity, his position declared vacant and qualified candidates invited to apply. The activist wants Mwilu and Lenaola barred until the petitions over their integrity are resolved by the JSC. Njihia says the two judges have been accused of judicial gross misconduct, breach of judicial code of conduct and integrity. "Their credibility to handle a presidential petition is questionable," the petitioner argues in his papers. He says the JSC has also kept quiet on issues which were presented to it in relation to the accusations against Mwilu and Lenaola "The JSC should come out and pronounce the current bench, as constituted, unfit to hear and determine a fresh presidential petition as it does not meet both constitutional threshold and technical aspects as per the judicial code of conduct," the petitioner says.  