Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has accused Jubilee operatives of using state resources to portray Nyanza residents as averse to development. Outa said this on Friday, in reaction to the Nyanza Development Dialogue that took place at Laico Regency in Nairobi on Friday. "The forum is purely aimed at demeaning residents and leaders from the region," he claimed and accused Jubilee politicians of being being a scheme to belittle and portray Nyanza as less developed. The Senator lay the blame on former Budalang'i MP Ababu Namwamba, Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju and Peter Kagwanja. Outa dismissed the three as political rejects who have no economic or leadership authority to speak on behalf of people in the region that primarily supports NASA leader Raila Odinga. "The conference is purported to talk about development in Nyanza as if it is the only region lagging behind in economic development." The Senator further accused a senior state official in the Interior ministry, whom he did not name, of funding the conference which he termed "suspect and not genuinely aimed at empowering citizens". Ababu defected from ODM to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party, saying he was keen on development for his people. He said Uhuru listens to Kenyans' concerns and delivers. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto have promised to develop all parts of Kenya. In April, State House said the region had been getting the same attention as other parts of the country and local counties were allocated their rightful shares of devolution funding. Ababu, Tuju and Kagwanja did not respond to calls and SMSs for more comments on the development matter. Read: Ababu Namwamba explains why Labour Party will back Uhuru Also read: Jubilee defends development record in Nyanza region FIRM RESOLVE FOR REFORMS Outa noted there are many cadres of leaders - MCAs, MPs, senators, governors and distinguished professionals - who are authorised to speak on any kind of empowerment in the region. He added such meetings will not result in intimidation, oppression and harassment for NASA leaders and Kenyans of goodwill, and cause them to abandon the push for electoral justice. Raila announced a nationwide boycott of products and services by Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside Dairies as part of efforts for reforms, especially at IEBC. He has also sent the People's Assembly motion to counties. During a tour of the United States on Thursday, the Opposition leader rebuked "international friends" saying they did not stand with Kenya during the election on August 8 and October 26. Read: West failed Kenya during election but it's not too late, Raila tells CSIS Outa, who is former Nyando legislator, further dismissed the conference as cheap political propaganda and warned they will stand up to defend the constitution. On the boycott, he said they will grow the list after an evaluation. "We are going to announce more products to be boycotted once our leader gets back from abroad. These companies must feel the pinch of election injustice. The boycott is meant to achieve electoral justice." He insisted that no amount of pressure will make NASA leaders relent on their quest to end impunity, bad governance and election rigging. Outa accused the three companies of colluding with Jubilee and denying Kenyans their rights. Safaricom, Jubilee Party, KIEMS kits provider OT-Morpho, ballot papers printer Al Ghurair are among organisations that have denied claims of involvement in rigging. IEBC officials have also denied the claims and nobody has been convicted of this crime. Many politicians have asked Raila to aceept defeat in elections but he has insisted there is truth in his pronouncements. He has also said he will only rest after change in Kenya. "NYANZA PROFILING UNACCEPTABLE" In a statement later today, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the talks are "desperate moves by busybodies who are seeking relevance". They should be ignored, the ODM secretary for political affairs said, but noted the right to free thought, speech and assembly.  "History is replete with examples of such cases whereby at a defining moment such as this, out of their selfish interests, some people would join the oppressor against the oppressed and attempt to revise the same history," he said. "The only unfortunate thing about this despicable Jubilee group is that they have allowed themselves to be used to perpetuate the profiling of the Luo community in the most condescending manner. That is unacceptable." Read: NASA accuses Chebukati of 'ethnic profiling' after vote pushed in Raila zones