The planned construction of the Sh19.5 billion Bosto Dam in Bomet county has run into controversy with conservationists voicing opposition to the project. The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation wants to build the 45m high dam on Kipsonoi River in Bosto, in the South West of Mau Forest Reserve. It will flood an area of 300ha and is expected to hold 18 billion cubic meters of water. The Nyangores Community Forest Association has opposed the project, saying public participation has not been done. "I do not know what is happening . Only a few people were called by the governor for public participation," the association's chairman John Mutai told the Star on the phone. The Kenya Forest Service says it is still scrutinising the Environmental and Social Impact report, almost a month after the National Environment Management Authority gave the project the green light. Nema issued a licence for the corporation to proceed with their construction on September 26.  KFS chief conservator Emilio Mugo told the Star that he was reviewing the report. "I have just received communication from the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation," Mugo said. He said the the project can only proceed after policy guidelines have been complied with. Mugo said KFS ought to have been involved. "There is no way they can discuss the project without involving KFS," Mugo said. East Africa Wild Life Society executive director Julius Kamau said the dam lies inside the Mau Forest and not outside the forest as indicated by the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment report.  "The report states that the three dam treatment site alternatives are 18 kilometers, 12 kilometers and 3 kilometers from the edge of the forest respectively. But based on coordinates and field visits, the true scenario is that the sites are located inside the forest," Kamau said. He termed the report "erroneous, inaccurate and with misleading information." Kamau said the assessment failed to analyse the option of having the dam outside the forest as it would have meant high compensation and relocation costs. He said Mau is a crucial transboundary area because its waters flow into the Mara and Serengeti wildlife sanctuaries. As such, Tanzanian officials ought to have been involved, he said. The ESIA report admits that the indigenous forest will be permanently cleared for the dam. But lead environmental consultant Catherine Muigai, told the Star that mitigation measures have been put in place to replace cleared trees. The National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri told the Star that he is yet to see the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment report. NWCPC chairman Julius Kones said several meetings have been held and that all agencies were involved. Kones said all concerns have been addressed. "We are waiting for clearance specifically from KFS," Kones told the Star on the phone. NEMA Compliance and Enforcement Officer Zephania Ouma said that notices inviting input from the public and stakeholders had been put out in the media. “The proponent in collaboration with KFS will ensure sustainable utilisation and protection of vegetation. KFS will continuously monitor the proponent’s dam operations and maintenance to avoid any illegal forest clearance or settlements. This is all clearly outlined in the Environmental Management Plan of the proposed project," Ouma said. He echoed Kones comments that several meeting with locals had been held. But Mutai said he is not aware of such meetings. He only acknowledged one meeting convened by former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto in a hotel. He said he not attend that meeting. Ouma says stakeholders were consulted on June 13 at Twig Annex hotel in Bomet County. Those present included KWS, KFS, county commissioner, representatives from the county government, the public, CBOs, Lake Victoria South Water Services Board, WRA, Bomet Water and Sewerage Company, Water Resource Users Association and WWF. According to Ouma, the Bosto site has the least environmental risks and the best design for the dam. He denied that Tanzanian ecosystem will be affected since adequate mitigation measures were put in place to protect downstream users. In March 2009, a task force formed by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga cited South West Mau as a biodiversity hot spot that needs to be preserved. EIA study by lead consultant Catherine Muigai    