Developments in the last several months suggest quite strongly that Kenya has a consensus challenge. The lack of general agreement between the major political movements in the country on broad issues, including how to lead and govern it and how to advance its economy have persisted. Neither the 2010 Constitution nor the impressive economic growth registered over the years have brought respite. Over the years, the electoral cycle has provided a fertile ground for the manifestation of our dissensus, more often leading to complex divisions that regrettably take on an ethnic hue. Yet, the political cleavages, arising from a drawn-out contestation of this election cycle were disrupted by two unrelated occurrences last week. On November 20, the Supreme Court by a unanimous verdict affirmed the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta, dismissing petitions lodged by two coordinated set of actors, both pursuing the same goal – invalidation of the October 26 presidential election. One petition was initiated by two leading human rights activists, Njonjo Mue, whose tenure as ICJ chair ended last weekend, and Khalif Khalifa, a former commissioner with the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. The other, was filed by the affluent and eccentric politician, Harun Mwau. By this decision, the Supreme Court effectively brought an end to any questions of legal legitimacy of President Uhuru’s second term, propelling the incumbent to the pole position of head of state and government. In this role, President Uhuru has the unique opportunity to craft an executive arm of government capable of not only delivering development dividends but also pursuing broad consensus on the nationhood challenges witnessed over the last year of electioneering and even before. The unanimous decision, a significant departure from the split 4-2 decision that nullified the initial election on September 1, represents judicial consensus on the fairness of the repeat election on October 26, despite tremendous obstacles thrown at the process by NASA’s boycott and outright sabotage. Unrelatedly, on November 22 saw Goldalyn Kakuya, the 14-year-old girl with albinism from Kakamega county, who beat a million other candidates to emerge top in the country in the KCPE exam, thrust into prominence, bringing optimism to a national atmosphere fraught with dark foreboding. Her victory – unlikely because of societal and health barriers faced by persons with disability – attracted unusual attention and led to a meeting with the President and Deputy President William Ruto. On the same day, under the chaperon of the indefatigable champion of persons with disability, Isaac Mwaura, Kakuya also met Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyongo. Kakuya’s interaction with the President and his Deputy as well as Governor Nyongo is important because the binary nature of our politics appears to suggest there is very little in common in the developmental philosophies of President Uhuru and DP Ruto on the one hand, and Gobernor Nyong’o — and by extension Raila Odinga — on the other. Nothing could be further from the truth. In reality, as Kakuya has educated us, there is certainly more that binds our leadership from either side of the political divide. Apparently, disability issues, especially with regard to persons with albinism, is one such common bond. It is under Uhuru that persons with disability have received significant policy and fiscal support to facilitate their personal development, including through direct cash transfers. For instance, government allocation to the disabled rose to Sh1.8 billion in 2016-2017, which funded, among other efforts, a Sunscreen Support Programme that benefitted over 3,026 persons with albinism. Similarly on October 21, 2016, DP Ruto presided over a fundraiser for the education fund of the Albinism Society of Kenya, a nonprofit promoting the rights of persons living with albinism. Notably, disability issues also feature prominently in the developmental thinking of Governor Nyong’o and his highly esteemed daughter, Lupita. As the patron of the ASK, Nyong’o (with Lupita) have done a great deal to address stigmatisation and exclusion of persons with albinism. It is also Nyong’o, who only recently worked with his counterparts, Governors Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) and Stephen Sang (Nandi), to stem border disputes between communities in Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi. Counselled by Kakuya’s determined example, it is my view that, perhaps our search for national meaning and consensus can be easily discerned and addressed if we allowed those easily despised, readily forgotten and often disposable, to light our path. Our national values as stipulated in the constitution will be venerated when policy decisions of the state ensure that our collective citizenship includes those who live in the margins of our social, economic and political spaces. Consequently, in moving forward, the cries of the disillusioned and disenfranchised, disconnected from the sense of nationhood, must move leadership to action. That way, Uhuru's second term will not only light a candle to stability, unity and prosperity of the country, but will also enact an alter to justice for the disaffected. (Dr. Korir Sing’Oei is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and a Legal Advisor, Executive office of the Deputy President.)