After the New York Marathon feat last 10 says ago, Geoffrey Kamworor has turned his focus on his third World Half Marathon title at next year’s event scheduled for March 24 in Valencia, Spain. Kamworor successfully won New York City Marathon on his third attempt after his debut in the 42km race and will be seeking for his third half marathon in Valencia . He beat former world marathon record holder Wilson Kipsang to second in New York and hopes to maintain his current form in Valencia. Kamworor won the 2014 and 2016 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships titles in Copenhagen and Cardiff respectively.  “I am very happy that I was able to get victory on my third appearance in marathon. My next focus now is to train for the World Half Marathon, where I will be defending my title for the third time,” Kamworor said. The athlete, who trains at the Kaptagat-based Global Sports Communication together with Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge is confident of a third title defence in Valencia. “Nothing comes on a silver platter; On has to work hard. I will sit down with my coach and plan for next year,” he said. Kamworor has proved his prowess in cross country, road and track, owing to his expansive skills and discipline in training. “Discipline is paramount in anything you are doing and that is why I have been able to achieve all these successes,” he added. He made his marathon debut in marathon in 2012 in Berlin, finishing third before heading to the 2015 New York City Marathon, where he placed second. He said attributed his stellar run of results to Eliud Kipchoge, who he described as his mentor. “I admire Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge who has always been my mentor. We train with him at the Kaptagat Forest and I want to thank him for everything,” he noted. In March, he successfully defended the men’s 10km title at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships in Kampala, having also won the crown in Guiyang, China in 2015. On track, he has equally been phenomenal, winning silver at the 2015 Beijing World Championships and sixth in London this year.