The National Treasury said on Thursday that the scrapping of interest cap may take longer. This dimmed lenders’ hopes for an adjustment in the rate cap when the Monitory Policy Committee meet on November 21. During its last meeting in September, the CBK advisory committee retained its base lending rate at 10 per cent, the fifth time in a row this year in order to continue to anchor inflation expectations.  Before then, the regulator had signaled intention to repeal the year-old law capping interest rates due to the negative effect it has had on the economy. Addressing journalist at a Nairobi hotel, Treasury CS Henry Rotich hinted that the cap will be scrapped in future, but indicated that it may take longer than anticipated. “Caps are short term solutions. You put them because you have no option, but they are not sustainable. Sustainable reforms are based on enhancing competition in the sector and having a banking sector that is stable and well regulated,’’ said Rotich. Rotich’s comment seems to pour cold water on the bankers’ hopes that the regulator will repeal the cap before year ends. Mid last month, the Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) released a survey highlighting effects of interest caps on the country’s economy and more so on the banking sector, perhaps to convince Parliament and the regulator to reverse the 2016 banking amendment act that capped bank interests at four per cent above CBR. So far, two out of three banks that have announced their half year results have recorded a drop in profits. Equity Bank’s net profit dropped three per cent while that of Co-operative Bank went down by nine per cent. KCB recorded a five per cent surge in net profit. “It is increasingly becoming evident that the expectations of the Act are not being met. The inability for credit to adjust towards meeting the growth slack on the back of weak demand and the link between credit to private sector growth – which is nearly at a grinding halt – means that the greater economy is being hurt said Habil Olaka, KBA’s Chief Executive Officer. Olaka said it will be catastrophic for banks if capping operates concurrently with IFRS9, a new accounting standard that will be coming to force in January. The new standard requires banks to adopt a one-year forward-looking model rather than waiting for loans to default in order to make provisions as in the case with the current accounting standard, International Accounting Standards (IAS) 39.   