Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu on Saturday led residents in protesting against the disarming of Kenya Police Reservists. Authorities have confiscated 12 rifles issued to reservists to protect residents in Ngomeni, Kyuso, Kitui county. This follows the alleged fatal clash with bandits. Nzengu said this has left the residents vulnerable as they would be defenceless in the wake of any attacks by bandits. Malili and Kasiluni peace committee chairman John Musyoka has urged the authorities to reissue the rifles.  Nzengu said he does not advocate killing even as differences over pasture continue between residents and Somali herders. He said tension is high on the Kitui and Tana-River border following the killing of two armed bandits by reservists in a gunfight two weeks ago. Nzengu said it was unfair to disarm the reservists in the banditry prone Kasiluni, Inyanzae and Mandongoi areas of Ngomeni. 30 dead in a year The MP was addressing the press after attending the burial of Nzoki Kamaru, 93, in Mikwa village, Kyuso ward, on Saturday.  Nzoki was the mother-in-law of Martha Munyoki. Munyoki is a sister of Nzengu’s predecessor John Munuve. Nzengu said although Kyuso subcounty CID boss Henry Kinywa had told him the reservists’ rifles were taken away to facilitate investigation, it would only be prudent for the government to issues the officers with new guns. He said four reservists believed to have been involved in the fatal gunfire with Somali bandits were at the weekend held at Kyuso police station. When the Star called Kyuso OCPD Tom Achiya, he said he was away on leave.  He said Kinywa, the CID boss, was better placed to address the media as the case was being handled by his office.  Banditry in Ngomeni has left more than 30 people dead since last year and led to the displacement of many residents. Many children’s schoolong has been disrupted Bandits favoured Nzengu said police seem to favour bandits who pose as herders as no single Somali has ever been arrested over the coldblood killing of Kambas.  “Many people have continued to die in the hands of armed bandits over the years and no single Somali bandit has ever been arrested, I fail to understand why the police have double standards on this grave matter,” he said.