We just had a presidential repeat election. And although elections are central to democracy, I feel more apprehensive than celebratory over it. What can be wrong? In Kenya, elections are done more to promote dictatorship than serve democracy.  I was incarcerated and detained for four years by the one-party dictatorship of President Jomo Kenyatta and nine years by President Daniel Moi. In detention, innocent Kenyans were subjected to torture that included denial of medical care, solitary confinement for 23-and-a-half hours daily, untried and indefinite incarceration that ranged from one day to 27 years, raw food spiced with spiders and snails, exposure to mosquitoes, denial of family visits, deprivation of privacy, ensuring you have no bed or bedding, etc. To perpetrate these injustices, Kenyatta and Moi used Executive and ethnic dictatorships to oppress and emasculate people, and used one-party parliamentary majorities to justify and legitimise them. When I went to Parliament in 1979, I thought I could use parliamentary immunity to fight for and liberate the people. Unfortunately, I was shocked to find out that Parliament could not do this because it was itself held captive by Kenyatta and Moi Executives. In the days of the Kanu one-party dictatorship, its majority in Parliament used its numbers to make oppressive laws that legalised and legitimised dictatorship such as Section 2A of the old Constitution. Parliament was also used to legalise and legitimise detention or imprisonment of innocent citizens indefinitely, without charge or trial. The one-party dictatorship also governed the country with fear and silence, routinely rigged elections and assassinated anybody who criticised the President.  Executive dictatorship emasculated Parliament, using police terror and detention to assassinate outspoken JM Kariuki and detain Martin Shikuku, Mark Mwithaga, Kenneth Matiba, Charles Rubia, George Anyona, myself, Achieng’ Oneko, Wasonga Sijeyo and many others. Through fear, these Presidents emasculated the courts by giving judges instructions, taking away their security of tenure and possibly killing Chief Justice Kitili Mwendwa.  When we see signs of dictatorship, we tremble because we have been there and know history is repeating itself. It is, therefore, time for patriots and those who have courage to warn the country before it is too late that dictatorship is knocking at the door and must not be allowed in. Already, we have heard politicians such as new entrant Ndindi Nyoro of Kiharu and David Murathe ask President Uhuru Kenyatta to be a dictator to save Kenya. Yet we know from history and the Bible that dictatorship has never developed a country, made it great or transformed society harmoniously. It is ruinous and destructive to the society and unity of any nation. Those who are clamouring for dictatorship suffer from the ignorance of the Germans when they were chanting, “Heil Hitler!”. They lack the knowledge and experience of those whom dictatorship has detained, tortured, maimed, destroyed and killed, sometimes en masse.  When after the death of King Solomon, the people of Israel went to young King Heroboam, asking him not to oppress them as his father King Solomon had, he asked for the advice of elders who counseled him to grant them their request, but he refused. Instead, he listened to the young people, who advised him to oppress the people even more brutally than King Solomon. He took the advice and communicated to the people and the 10 tribes, who were forced to secede from the rule of King Heroboam. Instead of learning from the Bible, those hypnotised by the Tyranny of Numbers have added parliamentary dictatorship to ethnic and Executive dictatorships. With these dictatorships, oppressive laws are passed with no resistance because the opposition in Parliament is too weak.  Ethnic dictatorship ensures communities have only one political ideology, one political party and even determines how they vote. Without much notice, dictatorship also ensures jobs, services and development are accessed not because citizens are taxpayers but because they are politically correct and loyal. It is slowly eroding the independence of the Judiciary, forcing it to align its decisions, rulings and judgments to dictates of political leadership. People may ignore all we have said here, but when dictatorship is fully in place, we shall have lost all the freedoms and rights that took many years to secure from the tyranny of the one-party state. President Uhuru, it is better to be a democrat than a dictator. Resist all attempts to tyrannise you.    