The Office of the Controller of Budget has called for a thorough audit to ascertain the viability of Sh35.8 billion bills outstanding in the counties. It urges Auditor General Edward Ouko to swing into action and conduct meticulous audits in at least 43 counties that reported the unsettled bills. The money is owed to suppliers and contractors. It was yet to be paid by June 30. “The pending bills should be audited by the Auditor General to ascertain their validity,” Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo said in her 2016-17 budget implementation review report. The unpaid bills include Sh11.56 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh24.29 billion for development expenditure. The report shows, however, that the total amount of unpaid bills dropped by Sh1.2 billion, compared to the Sh37 billion that had been pending by June last year. The massive pending bills were as at June 30, meaning the debts could have soared in the past four months. Only Kitui, then under Governor Julius Malombe, reported no pending bill during the period. Mombasa reported the highest amount in pending bills at Sh3.95 billion, followed by Turkana (Sh2.9 billion), Nakuru (Sh2.8 billion) and Kisumu at Sh1.7 billion. Machakos, Mandera and Nairobi had not submitted the status of pending bills at the time the report was finalised. The Kenya Federation of Master Builders, a contractors’ lobby, wants the counties compelled to pay bills on time. The association says delayed payments hurt schedules, compromise quality and even force investors out of business. “We’re the worst-hit. It takes a long time to recover. We need more enhanced penalties,” chairman Moses Muhia said. Late payment of invoices to small businesses has stifled enterprises and poses risks such as cash flow problems, reliance on costly bank loans, job losses and bankruptcy. A law enacted in 2015 on charging commercial interest on delayed payments has not achieved much to compel the government agencies to settle bills on time. The Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act (2015) provides that entities that delay payments to suppliers shall incur additional charges for each day defaulted.