The other day I was at my kinyozi. One of the barbers there is Rwandese, and as an outsider he has far more insight into Kenyan politics by accident than 90 per cent of Kenyans try to have on purpose. After we had discussed Kigali briefly, he launched into a particularly incisive assessment of our local politics and the tribalism that drives it. At the end he stated categorically, and without fear of contradiction, that there is only one employee out of the 50 or so in that barbershop who is not tribal. My favourite barber, Irungu, being pricked in his heart, asked the equivalent of the question “What must I do to be saved?” In other words, he asked (in Kiswahili): “Now that you have told us everything that’s wrong with us, you should not stop there: Tell us what we can do to fix the problem.” Unhesitatingly, the Rwandese told him, “Mpende MJaluo, ni ndugu yako.” Irungu immediately raised an objection. I forget what, but it is unimportant, for there is no objection with the power to justify not loving one’s neighbor; all objections to love for one’s fellow man are powerless. This little vignette is being played out at national level. The elections (both of them) are over. The Supreme Court has given its (second) verdict. The President has been sworn in. We now hear calls for national peace and unity, and an end to the ethnic division that has characterised this year’s electioneering. Most or all of the calls for unity are lacking in value and in power, because, what it will take to achieve true unity, 99.99 per cent of the Kenyan population is unwilling to do. We shall start with our leaders. It is not possible for people to win elections by fomenting ethnic disunion, and then call for peace after they have won. This would be just as true if NASA had won, for NASA’s own ethos is tribal in the main. Yet the problem does not exist at a leadership level only, for the ethnic division that our leaders advocate could have no power unless the same prejudices were beating strongly in the people’s hearts. The truth is that this nation cannot pay the price for national unity. The good news (which news is at once and paradoxically also the bad news) is that this ‘cannot’ is not a matter of inability. It is only, and merely, and greatly, and almost insurmountably, a matter of unwillingness. I correct myself: it is not that we can’t. It is rather that we won’t. We have refused, and we continue to refuse, to pay the price for national unity and peace. We want national unity even as we hold onto tribal prejudices. We want national unity while excusing the corruption, the grand larceny and the abuses of our own. We want national unity – but for nothing! Something as precious as nationwide harmony is not worth so little, nor is it so cheaply bought. We should therefore stop pretending that we want it, because we ‘want’ it, yes, but at a cost that falls far short of the price necessary to buy it, and so we shall never have it, as long as we persist with our tribalism. The day the ordinary Kenyan will be willing to let his age-old tribal enemies be his countrymen and his brothers, we shall find unity is easy to be had. I close with a poor metaphor. Kenya is like a child with his hand in a cookie jar, clutching a fistful of sweets, who finds to his chagrin that he cannot remove his hand from the jar whilst it is holding the sweets, because the neck of the cookie jar is too narrow. He finds that he must either let go of the sweets and regain the use of his hand, or keep holding onto the sweets and never eat them. When will we learn that the clenched fist of our tribal bigotry will never allow us to eat the abundant economic fruit that this nation has to offer? God has given us beaches, mountains, deserts, wildlife, oil, and coal as well as a people intelligent and industrious enough to employ this God-given largesse to their own advantage. When will we learn that we need to let go of prejudice, and free our right hand so that it is able to pour sweets into our left hand? When will we learn that the Kikuyu hand must let go of its prejudice and shake sweets into the Luo hand, and that likewise the Luo hand must forgive much so it can shake sweets into the Kikuyu hand? We are a nation now upwards of 50 years old. How much longer will it take for the scales to fall from our eyes and for us to truly see?