The Supreme Court ruling upholding Uhuru Kenyatta's election win must be respected, Haki Africa has said, warning protesters could be punished for contempt. The group said it will abide by the verdict despite an earlier claim that the election was neither credible nor fair. On Monday, the apex court dismissed two key petitions filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau and activists Njonjo Mue (International Commission of Jurists) and Khelef Khalifa (Muslims for Human Rights). Chief Justice David Maraga said a unanimous decision that the petitions were not merited was reached. "The presidential election is upheld," he said, following the determination of the matter judges other than Mohamed Ibrahim who is sick. Read: Supreme Court was under duress, Uhuru reign illegitimate - Raila On October 30, Haki Africa said it was difficult to verify results showing Uhuru won the repeat election held four days earlier. The group also said, in its preliminary findings, that the vote was hampered the moment NASA leader Raila Odinga withdrew. Raila dismissed the election as a charade and also cited lack of reforms IEBC. Following his pullout, the turnout rate was 38.84 per cent and Uhuru got 98 per cent of total votes cast. The rights group changed its tune today, executive director Hussein Khalid telling journalists that focus should be on reforming the electoral system. "[We should] ensure all stakeholders are satisfied with the structure of the election in the country," Khalid said. He said they accepted the first ruling that found the August 8 election was invalid, null and void, so their current stand should not be misconstrued. "We now urge Kenyans to commence the process of reviewing the electoral system to make sure the country does not find itself in such a quagmire again." Reports indicate tens of people have died since the first election. More than 30 deaths were reported that months and at least eight after the October poll. Rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have raised concerns. Police, whom Haki Africa has been accusing of mass execution, have continued to deny responsibility and bosses say they have not used live ammunition. "We appeal to Kenyans of all walks of life and whichever side of the political divide to move towards healing and promoting unity," Khalid said. IEBC has said the ruling affirms their commitment to conducting free and fair elections. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said they will wait for the court's full judgement in 21 days  More on this: Supreme Court ruling affirms IEBC commitment to credible polls - Chebukati Related: Deal with hell of poverty, not Supreme Court verdict - ex-CJ Mutunga