Philippians 2: 13 can easily be interpreted that God
works though his people.  And if you have followed key developments in Africa, it
seems those people are the military. Why so? In June 2008, President Robert Mugabe said, "Only
God who appointed me will remove me, not the MDC [Movement for Democratic
Change], not the British."  He even vowed that even if MDC won the run off
scheduled in that June, they should not be allowed to assume power. He had lost
in the first round to MDC’s Morgan Tsvangirai, who won by 47.9 per cent to
Mugabe’s 43.2 per cent. Former Gambian leader,Yahya Jammeh, who ruled for 22
years, also said only God could remove him from power, and that he would rule
for a billion years. They are both out of office and the military has been instrumental
in both instances.  In Jammeh’s case, the military was non-committal in
standing with the dictator after he lost to Adama Barrow, and even after
initially conceding defeat, refused to stand down. Senegalese
troops backed by other African forces were also on standby to move into The
Gambia as Jammeh approached a midnight deadline to stand down or face military
action. In Zimbabwe’s case, the military took
over last week in what they termed as “an operation targeting criminals around
Mugabe”. This came only two days after army chief Constantino Chiwenga warned
those responsible for "purging" the country's ruling Zanu-PF party to
stop, or the military will step in. The coup — so because, as Charles Onyango-Obbo
tweeted on November15, “Morning #Zimbabwe
military; if it looks like a coup, walks like a coup and quacks like a coup,
then it's a coup” — will not bring much change to Zimbabwe. Unlike in The Gambia, where the
opposition took over and started rolling out radical reforms in governance,
Zimbabwe Defence Forces — largely commanded by liberation soldiers — is
basically protecting itself and its interests within Zanu-PF and in governing
the country by retaining the status quo. Understandably,
Zimbabweans are happy that after 37 years in power, it was time Mugabe left for
someone else to come in. An activist speaking to the BBC said they have seen
nothing but the worst in Zimbabwe. She said, “We didn’t want Mugabe at all … he
is the one who engineered Gukurahundi [massacres]”.  But who has replaced Mugabe in the high
office? It is his erstwhile comrade and immediate former Vice President Emerson
Mnagwanga, who has been accused of playing a pivotal role in those very
massacres as Minister of National Security. He is a friend of the military and
other security agencies, who want retain the status quo. He has been nicknamed
The Crocodile and is known to have used violence and intimidation in the past
to ensure Zanu-PF remained in power. He is said to have been behind the 2008
rigging.  Mnagwanga is part of the very system Mugabe
led and rewarded. It is also clear that it is the military that is power with
Mnagwanga as its civilian face.  It,
therefore, doesn’t make much sense, to for instance have replaced President
Daniel Moi and his close confidant Nicholas Biwott.     But as the English say, a
change is as good as a rest. Hoping Zimbabweans will determine their destiny
moving forward, starting with next year’s polls.                  