Governors from Lake Region
Economic Bloc have resolved to institute Rapid Response Initiative
to address the crisis in the sugar industry. The key problems to be
addressed are payment of arrears of cane farmers and staff at sugar factories,
write off of taxes, re-engineering the management of the factories, achieving
sustainable cane production and importation of sugar. The
bloc includes Kisumu,
Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet, Kericho, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma,
Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia counties. Led
by Kisumu's Anyang’ Nyong’o, the county bosses recognises the challenges facing
the sugar industry in the region which they said require urgent intervention.  They included
outstanding farmers’ arrears, salary arrears at the milling factories, cane availability
and poaching, factory inefficiencies, importation and its effects on sugar prices,
tax burden and cane transportation infrastructure. Governors Cyprian
Awiti (Homa Bay) and Okoth Obado (Migori), Deputy Governors James Okumbe
(Siaya), Mathews Owili (Kisumu), Susan Kikwai (Kericho) and Philip Kutima
(Kakamega) were present. Kisii and Nandi
counties were represented by Onchari Kenani (economic advisor) and Willie Too
(Chief Officer, Agriculture). They condemned the
unwarranted importation of sugar by some millers and call upon all millers to
respect contractual agreements with farmers regarding the prices paid for cane
delivered.  “As county chiefs,
we shall not support any move to lower cane prices by the millers in the
region,” Nyong’o said told the media on Thursday at Grand Royal Swiss Hotel,
Kisumu. He said as part of
the RRI, the lake region counties and the department of agriculture at the
national level have convened a stakeholders’ meeting to address the challenges facing
the sugar sector to be held in Kisumu on November 16 and 17. Nyong’o, the
chairman of the economic bloc, noted that the meeting will seek viable solutions
to the challenges facing the sugar industry in the region. “These efforts will
be linked to similar efforts in other sugar growing areas in the country for a
national approach and a common platform to rejuvenate the sugar industry in Kenya,”
Nyong’o said. The governors also
resolved to present the legal framework for the LREB to their respective county
assemblies for enactment into law by the end of the year.  They agreed that the
host county, Kisumu, will establish a secretariat for the LREB at the premise of
the county government, with staff seconded from respective counties as may be
determined by the summit. The secretariat will
disseminate the LREB agreement, for signature by governors of member counties,
while at the same time following up on financial contributions by the counties. Nyong’o said that the
secretariat will also review previous activities of bloc and make progress
follow up while initiating new activities under the seven pillars of the bloc. During the meeting, member
counties renewed their commitment to the projects in progress, including the
establishment of regional bank.  The counties had
begun the process of setting up a Regional Development Bank, which will be
wholly owned by the residents of the lake region. Member counties were expected
to contribute Sh100million each. Ends… 