One fine day, it occurred to the members of the Body that they were doing all the work and the Belly was having all the food. So, they held a meeting and after a long discussion, they decided to go on strike till the Belly consented to take its proper share of the work. For a day or two, the Hands refused to take the food, the Mouth refused to receive it, and the Teeth had no work to do. After this period, the members began to find out they were not in a very active condition: The Hands could hardly move, and the Mouth was all parched and dry, while the Legs were unable to support the rest. They thus found out that even the Belly, in its dull quiet way, was doing necessary work, and that all must work together or the Body will go to pieces. This Aesop’s fable has a good lesson for all of us and one that we must take to heart on this great day in our Republic. We must all must work together for the prosperity of this country, especially after the lengthy election period we have had. Today, President Uhuru Kenyatta will be sworn in for his second and final term amidst the unending political noise from the opposition. In his inauguration speech, we expect the President to outline his plan to continue with the transformation agenda. We expect him to tell us how his government will push through to uniting a very divided nation and building the sense of nationhood. This is a great day for this country as democracy has prevailed — we are stronger as a country because of the very long electioneering period. He is the President of Kenya and not only of the eight million voters who voted for him but for all of us since we have a stake in the betterment of this country. The President is the single most uniting factor, and his plans should be supported by all who believe this country should move forward. But it is also a day on which we have to remind ourselves of the tasks that lie ahead without being distracted by the politics of 2022. It is time for all of us to declare allegiance to this nation and decide that we have to work together for the benefit of all Kenyans, individually and collectively. It is the time to celebrate as a country, to unite all the 44 tribes and the 47 counties, to move on as one, to heal the existing sharp divisions and to focus on the next five years of building our country. Today, the President is likely to remind us of the journey we have taken as a country since he first took oath of office in April 2013. He will definitely take stock and tell us where he believes our country should head in the coming years. In all competitions, no one likes to lose but we must appreciate that losing is part of the process of engaging in contests. Winners must take their victory in their humble stride, while the losers must dust themselves off and wait for the next contest. The next focus must be on putting the country back to economic growth by focussing on production, and making the best use of our resources. We lost billions economically due to the long electoral period and it is time we focus on recovery. We must not forget that we will only win if we work together towards having better roads, improved healthcare, access to water and energy, and quality education. It is time to get back to work, and individually and collectively work towards the transformation that President Uhuru started in 2013. This is because an improved economic environment benefits all of us. Click here for the latest political news