University of Nairobi students have been instructed to report back for studies within two weeks. Academic Registrar BM Waweru said in a statement on Friday the first batch will report back on Monday, November 6, while the second batch will report back on November 13. The University was closed on October 3 due to security concerns. This was after students engaged in demonstrations, which turned violent, to protest the arrest of former student leader and current Embakasi East MP Babu Owino. Twenty-seven students were injured during a confrontation with the GSU, who moved in to quell the unrest. Students in the colleges of agriculture and veterinary sciences, education and external studies, health Sciences as well as postgraduate learners will resume on Monday. This also applies to those in the school of open and distance learning and module II students (evening classes only). Waweru said students affected by the recall in the college of agriculture and veterinary sciences are those in years II, III, IV (KCSE 2012 ) and veterinary medicine years II, III, IV (KCSE 2012 ) and year V. Those undertaking education and external studies at the Kikuyu campus are the only ones required to report back. That includes those in year I (KCSE 2015 ), Year II (KCSE 2016 ) and those in year IV. The registrar said students to report back in the college of health sciences include those undertaking Pharmacy studies in year V. Others are those studying Bachelor of science in medical laboratory technology year IV (KCSE 2012 ) and those undertaking Bachelor of medicine and surgery Level V (KCSE 2009 ). Students in the college of humanities and social sciences are required to report back on Monday. These are those in the school of business year II, III and IV and those in the school of law years II, III and IV. The recall of the students may however be an effort in futility considering that lecturers have yet again gone on strike. The dons kicked off their strike on Wednesday, for the third time this year, citing failure by the government to fully implement their 2013/2017 CBA.      