You know that person you simply do not like, whose name when uttered in your presence makes your hackles bristle? You know who I’m talking about, it’s that person who makes you feel like you want to throttle them for reasons that include they got the promotion that you wanted, they won the lottery, or they get all the praise in your industry — praise you strongly feel should be heading your way.  Well, you may or may not know this but that deep-seated dislike you have for this person, dislike that may or may not include homicidal thoughts of throttling, is what is commonly known as jealousy.  Understandably, many of you won’t rush to admit that you do on occasion get jealous of a colleague, a friend, or a rival. And you’ll probably deny that you have experienced envy, often accompanied by an evil thought or two, but whether you admit it or not, jealousy is an emotion that we all go through from time to time.  It’s an emotion that gets a bad rap but consider this: All human emotions have a purpose. In jealousy’s case, from a psychological point of view, that purpose is as a defence mechanism when we feel vulnerable, more so when someone else is getting status or recognition for something we want. But we’re not going to talk about psychology, let’s keep it simple and just ask the question: Is jealousy a bad thing?  The answer: It depends.  There two types envious emotion: malicious jealousy and benign. Malicious envy is the ugly one, with fangs. This type’s main characteristic is a biting bitterness, driven by an uncontrollable need to make things equal, level the field, even if that means tearing another person down. This is the envy our parents and every holy book warns us against for it is full of bile, and I’ve even heard that it causes physical pain to anyone carrying it around inside of them.  Benign envy on the other hand, even though it’s still jealousy, is jealousy you could put to good use.  And how exactly do you put this jealousy to good use?  The first step is to acknowledge the feeling. This helps tame your envy from growing fangs and turning ugly. Once you’ve calmed down, and you’re thinking rationally, you’re now able to see that your jealousy is not really about the person you’re jealous of, but rather you yearn for what they’ve got. This, ladies and gentlemen, opens a window into your soul, for it teaches you more about yourself. The soul-searching opens your eyes to your wants, your hidden expectations, and desires; for it throws a light on what it is you’re really after in life. Unexpectedly, your envy, this good kind, has reconnected you with your own dreams. And now that you know what you want, you can go after it. I mean, if your rival can get it, so can you.   Jealousy is not necessarily bad, it’s a negative emotion yes, but a negative emotion that can be pointed in the right direction.  So, as long as your jealousy is not fuelled by resentment, but by the drive to reach the same heights as your overachieving friend, colleague, or rival, it’s a bad thing that is good.  