All eyes will today turn to the Supreme Court as the hearing of three petitions challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection begins. Uhuru was declared winner of October 26 repeat presidential election that was boycotted by NASA. The Supreme Court had on September 1 nullified Uhuru’s win in the August 8 election. The petitions were filed by human rights activists. NASA has been enjoined in the petitions. Chief Justice David Maraga is expected to lead other judges in a pre-trial conference where parties are required to agree on the issues to be determined by the court. Other issues to come up in the conference include those relating to who will be allowed to participate as an interested party and as a friend of the court. Parties yesterday filed their responses and submissions as directed by court alongside issues for determination. Attorney General Githu Muigai applied an an interested party. The Institute for Democratic Governance wants the judges to first determine whether they have the jurisdiction to hear and determine the petition. The lobby also want the court to determine whether NASA leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula committed election offences and engaged in serious electoral malpractices. It further seeks a determination on whether the public has suffered losses and damages as a result of NASA’s actions. NASA asked voters to boycott the repeat poll. IDG says NASA leaders were determined to ensure that the fresh election did not take place. The IEBC, which is defending its conduct of the repeat election, has framed four issues to be determined by the court. The commission want the court to uphold a declaration that there is no requirement for nomination in a fresh presidential election where the nomination of the candidates was not an issue in a previously invalidated presidential election. It also want the court to hold that it conducted the fresh presidential election within the strict confines of the Constitution and the electoral laws and that Uhuru was duly elected. The commission says it engaged NASA on its “irreducible minimums but could not meet all their demands because of limited time. Petitioners Njonjo Mue and Khelefa Khalifa say they have enough evidence to prove their case. They want the court to nullify Uhuru’s reelection. They claim that IEBC’s refusal to conduct the fresh presidential election in 24 constituencies failed to satisfy its statutory and constitutional obligations.