Since Independence, Kenya has grappled with different systems of governance and various forms of governments. All are based on certain assumptions of academic political theories espoused by leaders at different times of national crisis. The persuasions of the leaders at the time of crisis have consistently defined the nature and content of government, and its attendant legal regime. That was the case in 1962, 1963, 1964, 1967, 1974, 1982, 1991, 1997, 2007 and 2010. I consider those to have been key years in our national leadership configuration, which altered, in one way or the other, the design, structure and content of the government.  The hallmark was in 2002, when Kanu’s rein was halted by the Narc juggernaut led by Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga. In 2003, the comprehensive review of the national laws began and the Bomas Conference convened to write a new Constitution.  The core of Kenya’s struggle for economic development freedom and devolution soon became its Achilles heel. Professor Odhiambo Mbai, who chaired the Devolution Tent, was assassinated, scuttling the process and a watered down version was presented to people who promptly and resoundingly rejected it in November 2005. We went to the 2007 General Election under the old Constitution and the country plunged into an unprecedented orgy of violence that claimed over 1,000 lives and displaced as many as 600,000 people.  Kenyans could no longer afford the luxury of procrastinating on the making of a new Constitution. After the National Accord and Reconciliation Act, a Committee of Experts was established to harmonise the various recommendations from previous efforts.  To a large extent, the ever-contentious issue of devolution was agreed upon, albeit not in its entirety. The system of governance, however, remained unresolved till moments before the expiry of the term of office of the Committee. The committee settled on a presidential system after the proponents of parliamentary system of governance surprisingly and suddenly ceded their ground.  The draft was approved at the 2010 referendum. We ended up with a presidential system on the model of the US but without the key ingredient of federalism.   INTERNAL CONTRADICTIONS OF  GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS Kenya has always had legal systems of governance, which are at variance with the peoples’ traditions and aspirations. These systems have invariably been bandied about as conforming to the known theories of government as taught and handed down from generation to generation of scholarship. Therein lies the devil that has haunted the country since western civilisation and establishment as a political entity in late 19th century.  Our challenge of political leadership lies in the fallacies inherent within the popular theories of government. The first being the composition of government as comprising three arms — the Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary — and the false claim of their independence from each other.  This supposed independence is expected to provide checks and balances in the conduct of government business.  However, when any of the arms has sought to exercise autonomy, and they seldom do, the executive has always responded with punitive measures smacking of vindictiveness. The 10th and 11th Parliaments tried with considerable success to emulate the Executive.  The fallacy is that these three arms are equal in conception and practice. It cannot be when the head of government is also the head of state, and that is where our scholars have let us down over time. Political science studies have always presented the theory of government as consisting of three organs depicted as distinct, independent of each otherand capable of checking any possible excesses of each other. However, this presentation of government has invariably coincided with that of the state — the government shown as the physical expression of the state, which is considered as abstract. When the state finds fusion with the government, then the concept and practice of three arms of government becomes inherently contradictory. Many states have suffered untold tensions on account of this confusion, including ours. In fact, Kenya has had the misfortune of internal strife because of the head of state assuming the role of the head of government as well. The current political impasse is attributable to the unclear delineation of functions, offices and powers of the state compared to that of the government. When either the Judiciary or Parliament chooses to challenge the decisions of the Executive, the head, in this case the President, quickly retreats to the role of head of state, which puts the office above the others. When he feels sufficiently secure and wishes the support of either, he assumes the role of head of government and lobbies the others as if they are equal. Therefore, the head of the Executive always has the luxury of exercising the powers of either head of state or government, as may be convenient in the circumstances. Kenyans must thus take advantage of the current political uncertainty and relook at their statutes with a view to curing the perennial hostilities that have characterised the competition for political offices since Independence.  We must reassess the theory of government and design a system of governance that best suits our environment. We should take full advantage our past experiences, together with the current circumstances, to forge a dynamic system that will serve the future generations and us.    DELINK STATE FUNCTIONS FROM THE EXECUTIVE The academics and statesmen need to stand up now and rescue the country from the political cliff or we risk tipping over and freely sliding into the abys. We always use Somalia as an example of a failed state, but how stable and successful are Burundi and the DRC? How about Sudan and South Sudan? All these states were driven to their current conditions by their leaders. Kenya has made three declarations that are fundamental for its security, stability and equitable development. We are a sovereign state (a country with borders and government); a republic (the sovereignty of the state is delegated but resides in the citizens); and that we are a constitutional democracy, meaning citizens choose leaders through universal suffrage and that right and responsibility is protected and guaranteed by the Constitution. Scholars should appreciate that for the theory of three arms of government to work, it must be clear that it is paramount to delink state functions from the office of the head of Executive, in this case the government. To this extent, the head of government should be equal in stature and character to the head of Judiciary and Parliamnet but subservient to the head of state. For the head of the Executive to be subordinate to the head of state, the two positions must not be held by one person and the modes of recruitment must be different. I would proffer three systems of governance for Kenyans to consider and reluctantly add a fourth one. We are currently trying to implement an American model of governance and for it to work well, it must be practiced as the original designers practice it.  An executive presidential system is better served with a fully devolved function under federalism. So, if we must retain the presidential system, we must be brave enough to allow devolution, as it was envisaged in majimbo. Counties may be grouped to form bigger jimbos for political and economic sense — probably nine jimbos, with Nairobi as a metropolitan region. The jimbos should be sufficiently autonomous and adequately resourced to have no reason to feel neglected by the central government. The national federal government must take its duties of state so seriously that no citizen should suffer insecurity or deprivation. Alternatively, Kenyans may wish to consider the Westminster parliamentary model, wherein the Executive is extracted from Parliament as the representatives of the people. This system is premised on the belief that democracy is best practiced by having citizens directly appoint their leaders both in Parliament and the Executive. Political parties through ideology play a much more dominant role in competition for office. Citizens vote for their preferred parties on the basis of manifesto and party lists. Votes for parties are counted per constituencies, which are seats in Parliament and the leader of the one with the Majority forms the government. The head of government could be called Prime Minister or whichever title Kenyans may fancy. The danger lies in the fact that while the Executive is expected to be independent of Parliament, the head of government in this case recruits the Cabinet ministers from the Legislature. However, it might as well cure the tension between Parliament and Executive, courtesy of the contempt with which the current Cabinet secretaries treat parliamentary committee summonses.  The counties remain as currently constituted and the President assumes strictly the role of state and stays above the partisan and local political frays. He or she then chairs the State Council comprising the heads of the Judiciary, the Chief Justice; Executive, the Prime Minister; Legislature, the Speaker; the Military, the Chief of Defense Forces; and a representative of the Council of Governors. All the heads of arms of government must be accountable to the head of state, even as they remain faithful to the citizens as repository of sovereign authority and the Constitution as the guarantor of the state. The other option that we may consider is a confederation system of governance best exemplified in Switzerland. It is considered a high-end form of federalism, where the regional governments are freer and more autonomous, yet the central government still retains and exercises sovereignty in foreign affairs. Every county would be given more autonomy and if need be, might be grouped into larger jimbos, as in the case of federalism discussed above. They would nominate a representative to the executive federal state council, who from amongst themselves elect the head of state.  While the executive council of the federal state would establish a Cabinet, their ministerial roles would be more nominal, as more executive responsibilities would be exercised within the regional authorities. The head of state would be rotational and elections amongst the members of the federal executive council would be more a formality and in conformity with a prior agreed rota. Every region is assured of providing leadership, courtesy of their nominee to the federal executive council when their turn to provide the head of state matures. Switzerland, which practices this model, has four regions distinct in historical orientation, cultural heritage and language. The regions are of French, Italian, German and Austrian backgrounds and are organised into seven regional governments. However, the country remains one of the most stable political and economic states in the world. Kenya may just wish to copy this model to guarantee its future. Finally, Kenyans may wish to consider the hybrid system preferred by the French. The heads of state and government share the Executive role — the Prime Minister as head of the party with the Majority appointing members of the Cabinet.  But the President, who is also the head of state, chairs the Cabinet. Kenya came close to this system during the Grand Coalition government in 2008. However, it requires a delicate balancing act and a high level of political maturity to avoid internal conflicts and resultant tensions.  Except for France, many countries have implemented it with varied degrees of success. They have not been able to achieve and maintain the optimal balance of power between the head of state exercising some level of authority within the Executive, and the Prime Minister, who also receives a direct mandate through his or her winning party.  In some instances, the President would overshadow the Prime Minister or vice versa, depending on the personality and charisma of the office holder. Russia has provided a classic example in the person of Vladimir Putin. During his tenure as Prime Minister, the world hardly knew the President and now as President people have no idea who the Prime Minister of Russia is.   POLITICAL RIVALRY In a nutshell, the challenge of leadership for nationhood and statecraft for Kenya lies in deconstructing the theory of government as held by scholars and practiced by politicians over generations. Scholars must begin to accept the reality that continuing to avoid the discussion of the difference between state and government will hurt not only the discourse but also politics. The state must be seen to be larger and more sacrosanct than government. These arms of government should be superintended by one office solely representing and acting only on behalf of the state.  We must henceforth, stop hoping that the holder of two state offices combined into one will have the presence of mind to distinguish when to employ which powers when faced with leadership challenge. This is what the legal practitioners would describe as a lacuna. In conclusion, it is important to note that the political stability of Kenya has largely benefited from the intense competition for political power from the founding fathers of our nation, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Odinga.  The apparent political rivalry from the two patriarchs and their families has always ensured that they provide checks and balances for each other. Their competition for control of political power and authority to influence national public opinion has always combined to support the crucial role of separation of powers. This role is ordinarily the preserve of the state institutions as established in the governance structures and systems.  However, as noted in the discussions above, the institutions have suffered irreparable damage through unbridled appetite for control of national powers and authority achieved through numerous reviews of our Constitution. The failure has also been due to inability to take advantage of the various opportunities for honest discussions on how we wish to govern ourselves.  We should not peg the security of our destiny on the political magnanimity of the two dynasties as they may not be timeless. Unlike the US, whose founding fathers agreed on a structure to allow each other to lead, Kenyans may consider the immediate falling out of Kenyatta and Oginga, a blessing in disguise! Without their rivalry, a rogue head of government would have been uncheckable.