Parliament is expected anytime from now to call for application from the members of the public who would like to be considered for the EALA positions. There are nine slots available at the East Africa Legislative Assembly.  Jubilee Party has said it will do the shortlisting afresh, while Suna East MP Mohamed Junet yesterday said NASA will retain Kennedy Kalonzo and Oburu Odinga in their list. Kennedy is the son of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.  Oburu is the brother of opposition chief Raila Odinga. Speaking at the National Assembly chambers, when the House
approved four names that will vet nominees to the East Africa Legislative
Assembly, Junet said the opposition has settled to retain the two in the list.
 “The people we are going to bring are Oburu and Kennedy
Musyoka. We have agreed to support them,
those two must get the slots,” Junet said. He said they will look for
fresh nominees to fill in the remaining slots. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale warned political parties and their leaders
not to nominate “girlfriends, brothers or sisters”, saying the House will reject
them. “We want you to protect the integrity of this House. We will not
entertain girlfriends and people who commit injustices to other leaders
to represent Kenya anywhere,” he said.  Duale said of the nine available slots in the
Arusha-based Parliament, Jubilee Party will get six positions. The opposition is
entitled to three slots. “God is great, with the numbers Jubilee has now, we are entitled
to more slots than we were in the last Parliament. The six slots we have, we
will share them among the other small parties that are in Jubilee. NASA will see how it will share the slots among the parliamentary parties – ODM and Wiper,” he said.
 Duale also said the House will not be
used as a rubber stamp. He said Jubilee will not allow their attempts to deny the
House its constitutional mandate to vote for Kenya’s representatives at
the regional Parliament.  “MPs must be given a choice to elect members to the
EALA. There will be no motion to endorse candidates, there will only be
an election," Duale said.   Before the 11th Parliament was adjourned indefinitely, Jubilee had settled on Joe Muriuki, Mutea Iringo, Eunice Karanja, Abubakar Ogle, Adan Noor, Simon Mbugua and Irene Masit. Others were Justin Bundi, Nelson Dzuya, Naomi Waqo, Chepkemoi Stacey, Florence Sergon, Justus Mate and Pius Ewoton. Waqo has since been nominated to the Senate by Jubilee. Apart from Kennedy and Oburu, then Cord had also picked ODM National
Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno, Abubakar Zein and Ronald Ngeny.  ODM has since nominated Pareno to the Senate. On the Jubilee side, 58 people applied for the job. Fifteen were shortlisted,
but only five were selected. From the National Assembly, the
members who will sit in the join select committee include Katoo Ole
Metito who will be the co-chair, Jane Kihara, Jeremiah Kioni, Florence
Mutua and Dan Maanzo.  