Maa community elders at the weekend met to cleanse and lift a curse they pronounced on girls who refused to undergo Female Genital Mutilation. The elders from Laikipia, Kajiado and Samburu converged at Chumvi Grounds in Laikipia North subcounty where they performed rituals to bless the girls. More than 200 girls who had run away from homes for fear of the curse were united with their parents who agreed to take them to school. Church leaders also said prayers to bless the girls. Elder Lenyen Oletipisi from Kajiado said morans had started avoiding marrying girls who had been cut. He said elders from Kajiado had agreed to preach against the harmful cultural practice. “The practice is gradually ending in all the maa communities. Even those who had turned it into a business are now handing over their equipment,” Oletipisi said. He said they have identified elders from the three counties who go round preaching against the cut. Elder Jonathan Swakei said the fight against FGM should include everyone. He further said through their campaigns they identify the circumcisers and teach them the negative impacts of the cut on the girls. Swakei said they still face some resistance from some communities and leaders. “The act was very rampant during school holidays. It is now reducing due to our efforts. The girls we have just blessed should also be anti-FGM crusaders,” one elder said. The elders said the Samburus are still holding onto the cut. They urged politicians to work with the community leaders to stop FGM. “We have asked them to engage the local administration. FGM should stop, even in Samburu, since all the Maa people are now shying away from the act,” one elder added. Politicians have been involved in the fight against FGM in the pastoral communities. Magundu East MCA Daniel Nyeusi, who is also the deputy speaker for Laikipia county assembly, said modern men are no longer marrying women who have faced the cut. He called upon the pastoralists, whom he said five per cent practice FGM daily, to shun the harmful culture and look for alternative rites of passage. “We will speak against FGM even in public forums without fear of losing the political grip,” Nyeusi said. Speaking at the event, Anti-FGM Board CEO Bernadette Loloju said more than 10 circumcisers from Laikipia have handed over their equipment. She said more than 50 elders from Laikipia are part of the elders who blessed and uplifted the curse spoken against the girls who had defied the cut. Mukogondo Girls Empowerment programme founder Josphine Ndirias said, “Men don’t witness the cut and that is why they don’t understand its effects. We have, however, trained them through a video that changed their mind.”