Working in teams requires skill. You
need to know the principles that make it work and how these principles fit your
context. Failure to get educated in this area could cost you a successful
career. So what are these principles? Think on these five. Clear,
Elevating Goal: A goal is a unifying factor for any team. It is an
ultimate outcome that makes each person’s effort worthwhile. Now, professionals
need to know that their energy is being utilised in a meaningful and significant
way. Hence, the team must find the goal energising enough to encourage
consistent action. If the goal isn’t challenging, measurable and communicated
in ways team members understand, then keeping a team together could be tough. Result-Driven
Structure: This principle is concerned with how teams get things done. What
kind of accountability system is in place? How is performance measured? Are we
getting results? Are we winning? A strong results perspective is vital to prove
that people are not wasting their time.  Competent
Team Members: What makes a team is the idea that different people
with different skills come together to achieve a common goal. Each team member
adds value by bringing their competency on board – this determines the value of
each person. Incompetency makes a team weak. It’s important for each team
member to bring their best to bear on every task. This increases the team’s
chances of success. Unified
Commitment: In successful teams, each member understands that the team’s
success means that their individual successes would be catered for. Ideally,
corporate vision is designed to fulfil personal vision as well. This makes
commitment easy. In effective teams, people are committed to each other and to
the corporate vision. Each person operates with the confidence that others will
protect their interests; they are free to give their best without fear. Principled
Leadership: Effective teams have effective leaders – a boss or leadership team
that operates in a way that makes team members want to give their best. These
leaders inspire, motivate, encourage and empower people to show up for one more
day with the zest to get the vision done. Leadership is team fuel. Poor
leadership weakens the team. But under good leadership, any team can achieve
greatness.  Email:
etoolbox@theyouideology.com  