President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday tore into a case by two activists seeking to nullify his election, saying it lacks a basis to justify sending him home. This is even as scrutiny of forms 34A and B unearthed irregularities. Yesterday, the lawyers concluded their submissions in the petition challenging Uhuru’s victory in the October 26 repeat presidential election. The six-judge bench comprising Chief Justice David Maraga, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, and justices Jackton Ojwang, Smokin Wanjala, Njoki Ndung’u and Isaac Lenaola will give their ruling on Monday. The head of state, through his lawyers, succeeded in opposing the filing of the scrutiny report on forms 34A and B, saying it will amount to opening the case afresh, despite it being almost concluded. He had also said that would prejudice his case as he will not have the opportunity to file his own report on the issue. The judges upheld his argument, saying what the activists – Njonjo Mue and Khelef Khalifa – sought is just access to the forms, not filing of a detailed report of their findings. According to observations made by lawyer Donald Deya at least 15 forms from three counties – Kakamega, Samburu and Garissa – had alterations, which showed figures were changed. Their scrutiny also unearthed another form of illegality, which showed vote additions in favour of Uhuru. “We have unearthed visible alterations to increase votes to the factors of 100, 200 and 300 for the third respondent [Uhuru],” Deya said.  He also said most of the illegalities they had seen were admitted by the head of state through the affidavit of Winnie Guchu. Deya said Guchu had indicated the forms given to them were properly stamped and showed proper figures, but the carbon copies had different figures. Earlier, Uhuru’s legal team urged the Supreme Court to ignore the petitions, saying those who filed it opted not to take part in the repeat poll voluntarily and therefore lacked the authority to question its outcome. The team told Maraga and the five other judges to reject attempts by “busybodies” to plunge the country into deeper economic crisis. “You are not a court for those who opted to vote and neither are you a court for those who boycotted voting. You are the Supreme Court of Kenya. In my humble view, your job is to give us back our country. Your responsibility as the Supreme Court is to assert the supremacy of the Constitution,” lawyer Kiragu Kimani said. The lawyers further urged the court to ignore petitioners – former Kilome MP Harun Mwau, Mue and Khalifa – terming them “NASA surrogates”. Lawyers Fred Ngatia, Ahmednasir Abdullahi, Kiragu, Tom Macharia and Ken Ogeto said for the court to invalidate the election, there must be evidence to prove beyond doubt all the allegations made. “That standard of proof has not been attained. That threshold has not been attained,” Ogeto said. He said there is no evidence Kenyans were stopped from voting. The team said it was not necessary for political parties to conduct nominations for the repeat presidential poll. They argued that the fresh presidential election did not need nominations for the simple reason that its foundation was based on the August nominations, whose certificate remained valid despite the nullification of the election. They told the six judges the nominations would have been necessary if the Office of the President fell vacant. They said the October 26 election was conducted as directed by the Supreme Court and in accordance with the High Court decision in the case filed by Thirdway Alliance candidate Ekuru Aukot. “The IEBC cannot be faulted in obeying the law set out in the September 1 judgment that ordered fresh polls to be held within 60 days,” Ngatia said. He said it would have been difficult to conduct the nominations within the 60 days directed by the court. According to the lawyers, the Supreme Court only quashed Uhuru’s victory and invalidated the declaration of the August 8 presidential outcome, but did not nullify the entire election. On Wednesday, Mwau argued no nomination was conducted after Uhuru’s win was nullified. He said there ought to be fresh nominations conducted ahead of fresh polls for them to be valid. Through lawyers Benjamin Musyoki and Mark Ouma, Mwau argued that the October 26 repeat presidential poll was not held in accordance with the Constitution, since none of the candidates had been nominated by their respective political parties. “Does it mean that the other candidates used the 2013 nomination certificates to run for the October 26 repeat election? It is our contention that the October 26 poll was a fresh election, but not a continuation of the previous election,” Ouma said. But Ngatia said, “It is only the declaration of the election that was nullified, not the entire presidential election. Nominations are only necessary for a General Election,” On matters of the controversial election laws passed hurriedly by Jubilee MPs, the President’s lawyers said all legal processes were followed. The laws came into effect on November 1. Parliament sent the Bill to Uhuru for enactment, but he did not assent to it or send it back to Parliament with proposals. Ngatia said all the cases pending before the court are subject to the new laws and the court cannot apply repealed laws as they ceased to exist. Ogeto said the amendment to the Election Laws did not hurt the voter turnout.  The current case is likely to be determined on whether there was need for fresh nominations or not.