Daniel Ngengi Muigai, the famous witness in the Nakuru helicopter crash and the Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru's accident has been unmasked as a habitual liar, who is thrilled by the attention he generates. Detectives have unmasked the man, who by carefully picking aliases that resemble close family members of President Uhuru Kenyatta's family members, has catapulted himself to the public limelight. DCI investigators have established that the mans real identity is Charles Karanja from Mathira, Nyeri county. A sister and a former wife have confirmed to police that the man's name is Karanja, not Daniel Ngengi Muigai as he alleged. In statements to police, the pair described Karanja as a “pathological liar who masquerades as a military officer or police officers attached to the President Escort". His sister Nancy Wanja told police Karanja is a standard seven dropout. She said Karanja has never been enlisted, either as a police officer or a soldier. Wanja said she did not know what the 40-year-old father of two does for a living. Damaris Karuitha, Karanja's estranged wife, told officers from the DCI she was all along convinced that he was a security officer attached to State House. She had on several occasions seen images of a man who closely resembles Karanja seated behind the President during state functions. It was until officers from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit caught up with her in Nairobi that it emerged the officer in glasses guarding Uhuru is not the father of his children. She said she had seen the images of the security officer posted on Karanja’s Facebook page, which firmed up her believe he was a security officer. On several occasions when Karanja visited her at her Nairobi home, he would receive calls from a number saved on his phone as H E (His Excellency) and he would tell her he was speaking to Uhuru on the phone. The businesswoman told investigators she met Karanja in 1996, while working in Nanyuki. Karanja, then a young, eloquent, charming and smartly dressed man introduced himself as a military officer. He promised to marry Karuitha and relocate her to Nairobi. Karuitha said she could not resist Karanja’s overtures and soon found herself in his house as a wife and a mother of two. It was until police pointed out to her on Tuesday that the man guarding the President was not Karanja, but a lookalike. Karanja was born and bred in Chaka and Karatina towns. After his arrest last week, investigators were almost tempted to take the man for a mental examination at the Mathari Hospital after he took them to State House, where he claimed to be his home. Police would later establish that Karanja lived in Kayole. Guards at the gates of State House told police they had never seen Karanja. In another classical case of a liar and conman, a bar owner in Kenol, Murang'a, told investigators Karanja conned her into a relationship by pretending he was an influential State House operative. Karanja would frequent the woman's bar where he would enjoy free beers. While at the bar, he would show off to other patrons that he was speaking to the President on the phone. He had promised the businesswoman he could help her secure a contract with the government. Police found several job applications in Karanja's car, which he is said to have promised his contacts to to secure employment.