Kenyans across the political divide are mourning Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru who died this morning in a road accident. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Tuesday was among leaders who sent condolence messages to Gakuru's family. Gakuru, 51, was reportedly travelling to Nairobi for a morning talk show at Kameme TV when his vehicle was involved in a road accident near Kabati on the Thika-Muranga highway. His body has arrived at the Lee Funeral home, Nairobi. Several leaders are at the Lee to receive the body. More on this: Nyeri Governor, driver rushed to hospital after grisly accident "Very, very sad news from Nyeri ... Indeed we’re passers-by on this earth. I pray for strength to the family of Dr. Wahome and Nyeri people," Muturi said on Twitter. Former Nairobi deputy governor Jonathan Mueke said, "RIP Gov. Wahome Gakuru of Nyeri. Kenya has lost a great mind in you. Condolences to family and friends." "I am deeply saddened by the untimely death of H.E. Gakuru Wahome that occurred this morning through a road accident," Council of Governors chair Josephat Nanok said. Acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi‏ said, "I am deeply saddened by the demise of Nyeri County Governor - Wahome Gakuru. My condolences and prayers to his family & the people of Nyeri." "Condolences to the family, friends and county of Nyeri on the untimely demise of Governor Wahome Gakuru," Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr‏ also said on Twitter. Leon Lidigu‏ said "Rest in peace governor @DrGakuru. Condolences to the people of Nyeri County. So sad and unfortunate. My God comfort you all." Businessman Chris Kirubi‏ said "My thoughts & prayers to family, friends and entire Nyeri County following tragic demise of Governor Dr. Wahome Gakuru. Rest Well." "You had plans for our county but now you are gone! Fare thee well Governor #RIPGakuru," Duncan Mwathi‏ said. @oyengosteve01 said "#RipGakuru. Too sad to lose such a leader. My condolences to the family and people of Nyeri county." "The cruel hands of death has struck Nyerians again in less than a year this time a grisly road accident," Chebukati Joseph said. Gakuru was only in office for about 90 days after winning in the 2017 general election, beating his opponent with a big margin of votes. His deputy Mutahi Kahiga will take over for the rest of the term. Gakuru was a governor aspirant in the 2013 general election where he lost to the late Nderitu Gachagua.  This is the second time Nyeri is losing a governor after Gachagua's demise.