City Hall failed to meet its revenue target in most of its key streams, causing a Sh11 billion deficit in its Sh34 billion 2016-17 budget, a report has shown. The county annual financial report says this hurt the city county’s development projects, which had been allocated Sh11.3 billion during the financial year. The report says the county received all its allocation - Sh14.6 billion - from the national government and other grants it had factored in the budget during the year. As a result of the deficit, the report says, the county spent Sh20.1 billion on recurrent expenditure against the budgeted amount of Sh23.4 billion. It, however, only spent Sh3.7 billion on development against the budget of Sh11.3 billion. The report was tabled in the chamber by deputy speaker and Njiru MCA John Kamaya on Tuesday. City Hall only collected Sh2.2 billion, or 41 per cent, of its targeted revenue from rates. Its target was Sh5.5 billion. The county only managed to collect Sh1.9 billion or 55.8 per cent from parking fees against the target of Sh3.5 billion. This is despite the automation of the stream to seal revenue leakages. Only Sh1.7 billion, or 49 per cent, was netted from Single Business Permits. The stream was expected to raise Sh3.6 billion to fund the city’s budget. The county collected only Sh824.8 billion from the building approval permits against the target of Sh1.7 billion. Revenue collected from markets stood at 52 per cent of the target while collection from liquor licensing missed the target by 39 per cent. The revenue, however, performed, in some streams, including fire inspection certificates, rent and liquor licensing. Fire inspection netted Sh433 million against the target of Sh180 million. It also collected 94 per cent of its target from rents. Failure by the county to automate all the 122 revenue streams, leakages and corrupt city revenue collectors have been blamed for the poor revenue performance. Former Governor Evans Kidero had automated revenue collection in only five streams when he left office in August. But new Governor Mike Sonko has ordered JamboPay, the company contracted by the county, to automate all the revenue streams. He said he would contract another company to assist in revenue collection, ensuring that all 122 revenue streams are automated. “JamboPay is a good initiative, but they were only in charge of 14 revenue streams. With the automation of all the streams, I am not sure it can handle all of them,” he said.