Barely 10 months after Governor Nderitu
Gachagua died in office, Nyeri has lost yet another county chief. Governor Wahome Gakuru died after a road accident yesterday morning, a day after his son and other form four candidates started the KCSE exam. He had barely been in office three months and was still setting up structures. Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga takes over for the rest of the term. Many Nyerians yesterday could not but wonder whether the seat is
jinxed.
 Gachagua succumbed to cancer on February 24 at The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London. The then Deputy Governor Samuel Wamathai took over, but lost in the August 8 General Election. Gakuru lost to Gachagua in the March 4, 2013, General Election. He ran on the TNA ticket. This year he ran on the Jubilee ticket and
received overwhelmingly support. He got 280,037 votes. He was sworn in on August 22. Gakuru's last public event was at his Runda home, Nairobi,
where he hosted Alliance Boys KCSE candidates, including his son. He held a doctorate in Public Administration and
Policy from Arizona State University, US. He graduated in 2004. In 2001, Gakuru graduated with a master’s in Business
Administration from Willamette University, US. He held similar qualification from the University of
Nairobi, where he also studied for his bachelor’s degree in Business
Administration between 1988 to 1991. Gakuru was a former director of Vision 2030 and the National Economic and Social Council, which is under the Office of the President.  He served as head of policy and strategy development from 2005 to 2006 at the National
Aids Control Council. Gakuru served as director of strategic management and marketing at Equity Bank. He served in the Senior Management Student Welfare Authority, UoN and as Kenya
Strategic Managemenr Unit manager (1998-2000).     The accident took place at Kabati on the Thika-Muranga highway.  Witnesses said Gakuru and his
driver were trapped in his Mercedes Benz for close to an hour before
they were pulled out together with other occupants.           Gakuru has also been a lecturer, researcher and career coordination at the UoN School of Business. He was a management lecturer at the PhD, MBA and undergraduate levels. He taught public management and policy, and was a research associate at the Arizona State
University School of Public Affairs. He also lectured at
Strathmore University in collaboration with IESE and Harvard. He was an adjunct senior lecturer in strategic management and research methods. Others fields he has serviced includes Health Mgt/ Policy
Consultancy Centre for African Family Studies (Deals with Health) , strategic
Management Consulting Various Management and Consultancy Firms Various  and also Management Consultant on diverse mgt
issues in both public and private sectors as detailed below.  