President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta’s handlers are keen to have powerful and influential African and Western leaders attend his swearing in ceremony. Organisers are said to have started working on a list of high-profile heads of state and government to be invited for the grand fete at Kasarani Stadium, Nairobi. The leaders will be drawn from Asia, Africa, America and Europe. They will also include entrepreneurs. A former president, who still has global respect and is keen to establish a top-class hotel in Kenya, is expected to attend. “The former president enjoys ample global power and has visited the country before,” an aide at the presidency said yesterday. Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni will lead the heads of the East African Community. State House has also reached out to former leaders who still hold sway in international affairs.  Uhuru will be sworn in on November 14 if no petition challenging his election is lodged at the Supreme Court by midnight today. Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua heads the team planning the ceremony. In case there is a petition and the apex court upholds Uhuru’s October 26 victory, he will take the oath of office for a second term on November 21. Jubilee handlers were last evening anticipating a petition, but hope the David Maraga-led Bench will dismiss it to pave the way for Uhuru’s swearing-in. NASA has termed the October 26 repeat president poll a “charade and a sham”. Its leaders said they will not recognise Uhurus’ presidency. NASA supporters largely boycotted the rerun. The election did not take place in at least 25 constituencies in the alliance strongholds. NASA advisers are said to have objected to the idea of filing a petition, saying that would legitimise the ‘sham election’. “We won’t file a petition after withdrawing, despite having stronger evidence since it will legitimise the process at a time the Executive has seriously intimidated the Judiciary,” a NASA insider said. Dignitaries will be expected to arrive on the eve of the ceremony. They will be hosted to a cocktail party as the government unveils its agenda for the next five years. After the Kasarani event, the dignitaries will converge at State House, Nairobi. However, some might also be invited for the Safari Walk at the Nairobi National Park to boost tourism, a critical sector of the Kenyan economy.