President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to chair a two-day meeting to discuss the country's economic recovery strategy following a prolonged political season. Sources within the presidency told the Star that Tuesday's meeting will be held at Harambee House in Nairobi. "Wednesday's session will be at Treasury and will be on what must be done to ensure quick recovery," a Cabinet source said. "Of key importance to the President is the impact that the lengthy election period has had on the economy." The Supreme Court nullified Uhuru's victory in the first August 8 general election following a petition by NASA chief Raila Odinga. The repeat took place on October 26, and on Monday, Chief Justice David Maraga upheld Jubilee Party's win. More on this: Maraga upholds election, Uhuru to be sworn-in on November 28 The meetings, that Deputy President William Ruto will also attend, are to evaluate Kenya's economic standing as it negotiates debt restructuring. Treasury has announced negotaitions with creditors after it emerged Kenya may not be able to meet its debt repayment. In addition, Uhuru is said to be keen on how counties are meeting their obligations given the long electioneering period.  Ruto chairs the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council which deals with budgeting, the economy, financial management and integrated development at the national and county level. Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (Treasury), Adan Mohammed (Industrialisation), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution and Planning) and Amina Mohammed (Foreign and International Trade) will also attend the strategy sessions. The President will also be briefed on revenue collection which has slowed down since the beginning of the financial year. The meetings follows another last Tuesday when Uhuru met members of his economic team and partners, African Development Bank (AfDB) to discuss the continued implementation of the country’s transformation agenda. The meeting at Harambee House, was attended by Rotich, his PS Kamau Thugge, Senior Adviser on social sectors Ruth Kagia and Deputy Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita.   African Development Bank (AfDB) Director General Gabriel Negatu was among those present. The team presented options on accelerating economic transformation, especially focusing on programmes that can make Kenya globally competitive, while directly and positively affecting the people. "The primary goal has to be to lift the lives of ordinary Kenyans," Uhuru told the group. The President had been hosting sector meetings while waiting for the top court's decisions on petitions that challenged his re-election. In the last two weeks, he was briefed on the energy and water sectors and hosted a meeting on the transformation of Nairobi. Also read: Assumption office set for first meeting on Uhuru's inauguration