Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said he is happy to return to the country after briefing the US on the state of bungled elections. We have a lot of friends in the USA; I have met with leaders, professionals and businessmen and briefed them on the situation back home. There's a lot of interest in Kenya.I look forward to returning home tomorrow. Asanteni. pic.twitter.com/zPhZQNjDf4 Via twitter on Thursday, the NASA chief said he was happy to have briefed the international community on issues affecting Kenya. Raila explained to an American audience why he led a boycott of the October 26 presidential election. He was to face President Uhuru Kenyatta for the second time but he pulled out citing lack of reforms at IEBC. This saw Uhuru win 98 per cent of total votes cast and the other five candidates he faced share two per cent. He delivered a speech at the headquarters of Center for Strategic and International Studies. More on this: West failed Kenya during election but it's not too late, Raila tells CSIS Also read: [STATEMENT]: Kenya is hurtling towards outright dictatorship - Raila Raila said: "I have had an opportunity to meet leaders in state department congress...there is a lot of interest in Kenya. I have met professionals,and businessmen and briefed them on the kind of challenges we are facing following the bungled elections." The ODM leader said he was happy and satisfied with what he witnessed in the United States. "I am happy with what I have seen here and I'm happy to come back home. We have a lot of friends in the USA," he said. He added he was awaiting to meet Kenyans when he returns on Friday after his 10-day tour. "Thank you and see you," he said. This was Raila's first trip abroad after the controversial repeat presidential election that was marred by a voter turnout of 38.84 per cent and violence in his strongholds. The election turned the global spotlight on Kenya. A rally "to rehearse" Raila's welcome had been set for Thursday but IG Joseph Boinnet warned NASA against mobilising large crowds to march to JKIA to welcome Raila. More on this: NASA announces mega Kamukunji rally for 'people's president' Raila Also read: Raila flys out to US to meet Congress on Kenya’s situation