Artist Elias Mungo’ra is
known for painting images of urban life and ordinary people going about their
business. “I find beauty in the daily life of Nairobi,” says Mung’ora. Now
he is taking his city characters further with a series of figurative portraits
that study people in more depth.  Recently Mungo’ra displayed
his portraits at a solo exhibition held in the Polka Dot Art Gallery. There was
much familiarity in the persons depicted, possibly because Mung’ora paints
people that he knows. The first that caught my eye was a charming painting called
Jim showin a stout, smiling man with
a beard sitting in an armchair next to a floor lamp, a set up that looked a
little too planned.  Anshee had a young woman sprawled on a
sofa, with a blanket over her legs. The lady in Maggie Model wrapped in a red shawl is looking away over her
sleeveless shoulder towards the light. The contented woman in Wasai is lying on a pile of blankets in
the centre of a large image. In all three paintings, the subjects are painted
in contrived poses, like you see in western art.  Some of the male portraits
have a more realistic context such as Maina,
showing a young man with dreadlocks and eye-glasses scrolling through his
phone.  Another mobile user is in Roadside Mzee 1 where an older man in a
hat and bright blue sweater is lounging in chair.  In Roadside Mzee 2, a bald-headed man with car-tyre sandals holds his
knees while seated on a wooden stool. The turned-away face creates intrigue and
you can see this scenario almost anywhere in Kenya.  Although some old fans may
prefer his urban scenes, Mungo’ra is finding joy in depicting body forms in
relatively few brushstrokes and working with light. He says he is still
refining his technique. “The main challenge especially on the bigger pieces is
managing the proportions of the figure,” he said. “It is an exercise that
informs and helps in the development of my urban landscapes,” he said. He is also undertaking a
study of the human body through nude portraits using charcoal, a medium he
likes for its versatility. “It has a dusty and bold like quality which allows
for a loose approach to drawing.” Mung’ora presents the human form and lines
well. Perhaps with time more emotion, depth and thought provocation will come
into the illustrations.   Mungo’ora was born in
Nyeri in 1992 and had little art training because the subject was removed from
the school curriculum. He studied estate property management in college but
quit in the second year to follows his dream of becoming an artist.  A
rising star in Kenya’s art world, Mungo’ra was one of the top ten finalists at
the distinguished Barclays L’Atelier 2017 art competition. In December Mung’ora will be holding an open
studio at the Brush Tu art studio where he will feature other new works. 