S olio Conservancy in the highlands of central Kenya is one of the less-travelled wildlife attractions. It is situated between Mt Kenya in the east and the Aberdares Mountain range in the west. This privately owned estate combines cattle ranching with wildlife conservation, and is especially renowned as a rhino sanctuary. The first rhinos were brought here in 1970, the same year the conservancy was established after the ranch owners set aside part of their land for conservation of black rhinos. This is the oldest private rhino preserve in Kenya. The rhino breeding programme has been very successful, and the sanctuary now supplies rhinos to other wildlife areas in Kenya. The low tourist density creates a relaxed game driving experience. During our visit, we spotted plenty of white rhinos on the plains and in open forests of yellow-bark acacia. But we did not see any black rhinos, which like to browse unobtrusively in bushy areas. Finding two pairs of courting lions among the thickets was a lovely surprise. In both cases, the lion and lioness were snarling and growling noisily, then eventually snuck away to continue their courtship in private. Cheetahs and leopards are the other big carnivores here. Out in the open grasslands, we found zebras, reticulated giraffes, impalas, buffaloes, oryx and warthogs. Elephants are the only big animals absent from Solio, the conservancy being too small to accommodate their long-distance ranging habits. A stream running through the conservancy creates swampy areas, where we saw waterbucks and many wetland birds such as saddle-billed storks, Egyptian Geese, hamerkops, sacred ibis and grey herons. Unlike a national park, it is not possible to get into the conservancy unannounced. The small, luxury Solio Lodge is the only hotel inside the conservancy.  Outside the ranch, hotels that organise visits to Solio include Treetops Lodge, Rhino Watch Safari Lodge, Aberdares Country Club and Sandai Farm. A number of tour operators also offer holiday packages that include game drives in Solio Conservancy.   Location: Laikipia County Access: Via Nyeri/Nyahururu Road/B5 Contacts: Tel 20 2326210 Facebook @soliogamereserve   Star Rating:  4/5