The Murang’a county government has sacked the medical superintendent in charge of the Murang’a General Hospital over mismanagement. Dr Fredrick Mbugua, also the head of the gynaecology department in the hospital, was sacked after Governor Mwangi wa Iria conducted an impromptu visit to the county referral hospital on Friday. He found hundreds of patients complaining of lack of services. The patients had been referred to private laboratories and pharmacies for tests and drugs. The management of the hospital was unable to explain why the hospital lacked sufficient drugs, only saying suppliers had delayed delivery. It was also revealed that some of the medication patients had been sent to private pharmacies for drugs  that were available in the facility. Health executive Joseph Mbai has confirmed that the hospital has been restocked with all essential drugs that were missing. “We have now changed the suppliers who have been delaying the drugs and will now be using more efficient ones,” he said. Mbai said the medical superintendent has been suspended and will be replaced in a few days. Mbugua was elevated to the position after the former medical superintendent, Charles Kigo, fell ill. Mbai said changes will be made in the hospital to ensure it has committed staff who will offer efficient services to patients. Addressing the media on Friday, Mbai said the county government has changed the system of procurement of drugs to ensure all subcounty hospitals directly procure their own drugs. Only health centres and dispensaries will get drugs and pharmaceuticals from the central procurement system. Mbai said all health facilities have been instructed to stop sending patients to private facilities for drugs and tests and instead ensure they receive all medicines in good time. “From now on, any referral will have to be approved by a medical superintendent for easier accountability,” Mbai added. He said the county government is investigating incidents where medics are said to be colluding with private facilities to get a cut for every patient they refer. Cases of pharmacists stealing drugs and selling them to local pharmacies are being investigated. Last year, an intern attached to the hospital from the Kenya Medical Training College was found with 20 bags of hypertension and diabetes medication worth Sh37,000. “The case went to court although the intern refused to say where he was taking the drugs,” Mbai said.