An allegedly drunk man killed his equally drunk brother with a blunt object in Embu after he reportedly demanded his sh100 debt from him. Hezbon Kariuki is reported to have killed his 34 year old younger brother Martin Murimi after hitting him with an unknown blunt object after they fought at around 1am today at Gichegeri village in Embu West Sub County. The grieving father of the brothers Richard Ndwiga told the press that he learnt the two fought after the deceased demanded the cash which he had lent to his brother as they drank alcohol at an unknown place. He said Kariuki hit Murimi critically on the forehead near the eye with an object which he could not establish before he fell near his house. The old man who spoke in sadness over the occurrence said Kariuki woke him up telling him that his brother was too drunk and that he was lying outside his house. Ndwiga said since he was used to the two being drunk and occasionally fought he took it lightly and told him to leave him to sober up as he would wake up later to enter into the house. The elderly man said he went back to sleep but that at around 6am Kariuki woke him again telling him to go out and check what was wrong since his brother was still lying outside and that he wanted to go to work. The old man said he and his wife went out and found his son lying motionless and with an injury on his forehead near the eye and on checking him further he realized he was dead. He said after interrogating Kariuki happened he found that they had fought over the money and thus he went to report the matter to the police station. Embu West Police Boss Francis Sang said that a manhunt for the suspect has been launched as he disappeared immediately after discovering his brother was dead. Sang said that the he discovered that the two have been fighting regularly whenever they got drunk. He said the body of the deceased was moved to the Embu Level Five Teaching and Referral Hospital pending investigations and arrest of the assailant in order for him to be charged with the relevant charge.