The Election Observers Group has cast doubt on the credibility of the October 26 repeat presidential election. Elog – a group of local observers - want the electoral process audited, nationwide dialogue, regulation of the campaign finance, voter education and respect for government institutions. “Elog equally observed malpractices and electoral offences relating to multiple registrations, offences relating to voting, use of threats, violence to force people to vote in a particular way and stopping others from voting,” chairperson Regina Opondo said yesterday. She spoke at a Nairobi hotel after the group released it's October 26 fresh presidential election report. Opondo was accompanied by other Elog officials. The Supreme Court declared the August 8 presidential results null, void, citing irregularities and illegalities during the transmission of results. “The message the IEBC relayed was confusing and unclear. This affected confidence towards the institution,” Opondo said. “Preliminary findings from the Elog’s voter register audit indicate the IEBC has not fully clean-up the voters list after the KPMG's audit.” The group said 169,646 IDs and passport numbers are duplicated in the voters register. They said the number of registered voters by the IEBC was 19,611,423, but KPMG had earlier indicated 19,646,673 after the audit early this year. “In conclusion, based on the last few days of observation, the overwhelming issue on the conduct of the fresh election was whether the political environment created a conducive environment for elections to be conducted,” Opondo said. Elog said 60 cases of gender violence were committed by police and reported by victims. They said there was a massive external influence in the voting processes and election officials were harassed and attacked in both Jubilee and NASA strongholds. Millions of people did not vote because they feared for their security. Elog's mission deployed 290 long-term observers in the 290 constituencies. Some 2,196 observers were deployed on the election day across the country. They only deployed two people in Turkana county due to travel and logistical challenges. The mission collected 540 images of forms 34A to compare them with those posted on the IEBC website. “Some 536 out of 540 forms on the portal were legible. Some could not be compared as not all were legible. Seven of the 536 forms did not have the IEBC stamp. One out of 536 forms was not signed by the presiding officers,” she said.            