Farmers have been cautioned against using too much pesticides in efforts to curb post-harvest losses.  Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation director of crops system Lusike Wasilwa yesterday urged farmers to be careful in how they use chemicals when storing grain.  “There is need to train farmers to manage pesticides so we can have safe food for our people. Farmers must follow the instructions given while using chemicals to store the grain,” he said. “The chemicals should be put in the storage bags and not in the grain. Framers should also know that these chemicals are poisonous, hence too much of them could be harmful to human health.” According to the Ministry of Agriculture, 30-40 per cent post-harvest losses occur in Kenya. This is about three months after harvest, when dry grains are damaged by pests such as maize weevils and the larger grain borer. Losses also result when maize is not dried well, causing deterioration because of aflatoxin attack, which depends on the region and the level of awareness among farmers. Wasilwa said farmers, especially in the North Rift where harvesting is ongoing, are likely to experience huge losses because of heavy rains. Drying maize will be a challenge, she added.  “Maize may rot in the field or even in the stores. Usually, there are a few days of sunshine during this short-rains season. This is the time farmers dry their maize, but this season has been different and the rains have been consistent,” Wasilwa told the Star. Poor storage facilities and substandard storage pesticides increase losses. This prompts farmers to sell their grains at low prices to avoid further losses, she said. Wasilwa urged farmers to establish overhead storage facilities to allow enough air to flow and prevent rodents and weevils from attacking their grains. Announcing last month’s weather outlook, director of meteorological services Peter Ambenje said sustained rainfall in high agricultural potential areas of Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia was likely to hurt harvesting and drying of maize. He said Kitale, Kericho, Nandi, Eldoret, Kakamega, Kisumu, Kisii, Busia, Nakuru, Naivasha, Nyeri, Muranga, Kiambu, Embu, Meru and Nairobi were likely to experience enhanced rainfall this month — the peak month for the short-rains season.   