Kabeere M’Mbijjiwe, the pipe smoking doyen of Meru politics and a former Cabinet minister, took his final bow when he lost the final battle to esophageal cancer on October 31. He had struggled with the ailment for many years, culminating in major surgery in the United Kingdom and the USA 30 years ago with a prognosis of five years life expectancy. As testimony to his resilience, pure tenacity and God’s grace, he lived to the ripe old age of 91. Born in 1926 in Mikumbune, South Imenti, Meru county, to Senior Chief M’Mwirichia wa Mabuura, he started his early education at Mikumbune Primary School, later proceeding to Kaaga Intermediate School, Kagumo High School and later Alliance High School, Kikuyu. In 1951 he obtained his University of Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (Kenya) and proceeded to Makerere University. His stint there, however, was rudely interrupted by a school strike in which he was identified as a leader and possible Mau Mau agitator, leading to his expulsion. Eager to resume his studies he applied and was admitted to Fort Hare University, South Africa, only to be prevented from boarding his flight on the day of departure by the colonial government. Disappointed but not easily deterred, he established several business interests in Nairobi. Being a firm believer in the freedom and emancipation of Africa, he used his resources to finance the Mau Mau resistance. This covert support was uncovered by colonial intelligence, leading to his detention between 1952 and 1956. All his property was confiscated and his businesses expropriated. Not to be easily discouraged in the face of severe adversity, he secured the post of Farm Planning and Land Consolidation Officer in the former Meru district upon his release. This post allowed him to traverse the entire Meru and laid the foundation for his future political career. His insatiable thirst for higher education saw him admitted to the North Scotland College of Agriculture in Aberdeen from 1959 to 1961, where he joined his lifelong friend Jason Kimbui. He later proceeded to the University of Reading where he graduated with a BSc Agriculture in 1965. While in the United Kingdom he continued agitating for independence and formed part of the Meru Delegation to the Lancaster House Conference together with Jackson Angaine and Bernard Mate, amongst others. By this time he had wedded Julia Kangai and they were blessed with four children, Derrick, Kinyua, Gitonga and Nkirote. He joined Imperial Chemical Industries in London upon graduation and was transferred to their associate company Twiga Chemical Industries in Kenya where he rose to an Executive position. Kabeere made his political debut in 1974, when he was elected MP for Meru Central constituency and appointed Assistant Minister for Foreign Affairs by President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. This however was short-lived as his political foes cut short his term through an election petition that cost him his parliamentary seat. Ever an agile and versatile man he threw his weight and political support behind Annarita Karimi Njeru, the first woman MP ever elected in Meru. He, however, made a political comeback in 1979 and recaptured the South Imenti seat. He served as Cabinet minister in the dockets of Tourism and Wildlife, Energy, Health and Agriculture in the Moi government. Kabeere was in an elite group of the first educated Meru leaders who include JH Angaine, Bernard Mate, Jediel Mwirichia, Simeon Mbaya, Eliphelet Mbogori, Simon Kamunde, Henry Kinyua, Jason Kimbui, Daudi Mwiraria and Ken Thimangu, amongst others, who led the community into the hitherto uncharted territory of a modern economy. They served diligently without an eye for personal gain and brought honour and glory to community and country. Farewell. “May the road rise to meet you. May the wind always be at your back. May the sun shine warm upon your face and the rains fall softly upon your fields. And until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his hand.”  