1984 World Rally Champion Stig Blomqvist will be the first off the ramp on the 2017 Kenya Airways East African Safari Classic Rally set for between November 23 and December 1.  Blomqvist, the defending champion, was placed first on the seeded start order released by event organizers, East African Safari Rally (EASR) Limited, yesterday.  The Flying ‘Swede oldie’ leads over 30 drivers out of Sarova Whitesands during the 8th edition of the event which will revolve around in Kenya and Tanzania.  Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo, son of veteran Kenyan Safari Rally driver Frank Tundo (who is also taking part in the event) is seeded second on the star-studded list which also has Baldev Singh Chager at third while two-time champion Ian Duncan is placed fourth.  Geoff Bell (Datsun 260Z) from South Africa, is seeded fifth navigated by Kenya’s Timothy Challen. Challen is no stranger to the prestigious historic event, having navigated Bell on previous editions. Bell will be followed by Ford Escort RS 1800 Argentine driver Jorge Perez Companc, Richard Jackson (in a Tuthil Porsche) and the Mazda RX7 Frenchman Pilippe Gache.  Jackson has entered the event in a Tuthill Porsche and will be navigated by Ryan Champion. Kenya’s star driver Raaji Singh Bharij will team up with Rajay Sehmi at ninth in a locally build Porsche 911. Onkar Singh Rai is seeded 10th and will team up with Gareth Dawe, his navigator in the Kenyan National Rally Championship (KNRC).  “We are glad to welcome KQ and all co-sponsors back to the 2017 Safari Classic. The co-sponsors have not only helped the organization put up a world-class event but injected lots of quality to ensure smooth running,” said Event General Manager Pipi Renu.  Kenya Airways were the title sponsors of the inaugural event in 2003 which was held between December 10-19, skipped the December 1-10, 2015 edition before returning for the 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2017 shows. Leading communications firm Safaricom savored their association with the prestigious event for the first time this year.  The Kenyan telecom giants who are the Official Communication Partners have set aside a whooping KSh15 Million in cash and an additional Sh 2 million worth of connectivity and airtime worth for the officials and rally crews. This year’s Safari Classic Rally includes several small but significant tweaks to the rally regulations, which have encouraged many new European competitors to ship their cars to Africa for the nine-day event. Power steering is now permitted on the grounds of comfort and safety, and the cut-off age for cars has been stretched to 1985.