Unions in public universities have protested Education CS Fred Matiang’i’s order to put employees under contract employment starting next year. The two - the University Academic Staff Union and Kenya University Staff Union - say the move by Matiang’i was illegal and ill-advised.  Under the directive, academic and subordinate staff in the public universities would lose the privilege of being on a permanent and pensionable basis. They said they will move to court should it be implemented. Speaking to the Star yesterday, UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga termed the move a diversion from the ongoing lecturers’ strike following failure to implement the 2013-2017 CBA. Wasonga argues the directive would also go against the unions’ Collective Bargaining Agreement that championed the permanent employment of staff at a certain level. “The attack on employment contracts for university staff is illegal, unconstitutional and a breach of employment laws in the country,” he said. According to Wasonga, the fate of higher learning is in danger and would lead to their collapse if implemented. A spot check of public universities revealed professors and senior lecturers with PhDs are currently employed on a permanent basis. “We will not allow the higher education sector to be run through decrees. As a union, we were not consulted and, in any case, we cannot do away with the employment of staff on a permanent and pensionable basis,” Wasonga said. His sentiments were echoed by the Kusu, which said the directive could worsen the “already poor working conditions”.  “This is a discriminatory attack on university employees. University employees are equal to other public sector employees and nobody ever suggested the others be put on contract and non-pensionable terms,” Kenya University Staff Union secretary general Charles Mukhwaya said. The varsity employees further said they would continue with their work boycott unless the government releases cash to cater for their salaries as agreed in the 2013-2017 CBA.