Slavery in old times mostly involved slaves working hard in fields under the scorching sun, women taking care of the “masters” and their spoilt children, and in some cases, masters would flog their slaves if they failed to perform their duties. But in this digital era, slavery has been redefined and termed as modern-day slavery. A group of youngsters in Mombasa has decided to steer talks on this new-age slavery, a topic rarely talked about in Kenya. Generation to Freedom, which comprises students aged 13 to 21 years, has come out to fight what many call oppression. But the group says modern-day slavery goes beyond oppression. Generation to Freedom vice president Angie Owiti defined modern-day slavery as forcing someone to do something against his will. Owiti said prostitution, street begging and child labour such as house helps are the most common types of modern slavery in Kenya. Owiti said such kinds of slavery have been normalised, complicating the fight against them. She said she has come face to face with victims of slavery. “I have met and talked to some young people who were rescued from prostitution, street begging and forced labour and taken to a certain centre. It is a bad experience,” Owiti said. EYE-OPENING EXPERIENCE Grace Muthiora, a 13-year-old girl, watched a movie that changed her perspective of modern slavery. Grace, president of the organisation, watched “Cage No More” at their church in 2016. It opened her eyes and made her take a step to fight modern slavery. “Cage No More” talks of two girls who were trafficked from America to Mexico by their father. The father sold the eldest daughter to a brothel, while his wife and other daughter thought she was in a boarding school. He later took away the second daughter with the intention of selling her to settle his debts.  However, his plans were thwarted when a rescue organisation from America rescued 200 girls from the brothel. “After watching that movie, that night I ventured into researching. Next day, I approached my friends while armed with information on modern-day slavery and how we could assist,” she said. She said while researching, she came across an international organisation, A-21, which talks and rescues children from the jaws of their “masters”. Grace told the Star their aim is to talk and share information on modern-day slavery. “Lack of information and ignorance has made many children suffer in silence while being enslaved by their relatives, neighbours and people they trusted,” she said. Grace said both national and county governments need to invest and focus on fighting the crime. “I envision a country where children would not have to sell their bodies, work as house helps or beg in the streets,” she said. Grace said with assistance from the Mombasa county government, they have been able to obtain a help line ( 0733613999 ) where such cases can be reported. Pastor Edward Munene of the International Christian Centre in Mombasa said they show a movie every third Friday of the month. However, this was exceptional as it caught the attention of his daughter Grace. He said while driving home that night, Grace appeared silent and seemed to be in deep thoughts. After they got home, the girl could not stop asking questions and digging up information on modern-day slavery. Munene said when his daughter and her friends approached him for his support to fight modern-day slavery, he was ready to give it his all. He said modern-day slavery has been sugarcoated by people who pretended to talk about. “This is something people should say as it is because it happening everyday,” he said. CASE STUDY Pastor Munene said it is shocking that most children who fall victim to modern-day slavery are pushed into it by their relatives. He pointed out a case where a girl was taken away from a home with promises of education. However, that promise never materialised. Munene blamed ignorance for the ever-rising cases of modern-day slavery. “We are so ignorant of things we see as small issues,” he said. He gave an example of when he was walking down the street and a woman was carrying a child who kept crying non-stop. Most people brushed it off and thought it one of the naughty children. However, Munene took courage and approached the woman to inquire about the wailing child. “The purported mother said the girl was naughty and she had punished her for that,” he said.  “However, it was suspicious when the small girl started shouting that the woman was not her mother.” Munene said within seconds, the woman disappeared, leaving the girl with the crowd drawn by the fuss. “That was a botched case of modern-day slavery. If that woman had succeeded in taking that girl away, what would have happened? We the world would have contributed in destroying her precious life because we dismissed her cries for help,” he said. Pastor Munene said both levels of government need to put more efforts into fighting the menace, whose most victims are children who cleared class eight but failed to join high school. “Most of these children live in abject poverty and their parents cannot afford to take them to high school. And when someone someone approaches them with a better deal of better living,they do not hesitate to take it,”Munene said. THRIVING ‘SEX CITY’ In 2009, a New York Times journalist Josh Ruxin termed Mombasa a thriving city in sex business with mostly girls and boys from the age of 10 years. He said more than 20,000 children aged between 10 and 14 were being lured into hotels and villas across the Coastal tourist towns, including Mombasa and Malindi. Here, they were sexually exploited with promises of riches and trips abroad, away from the poverty lives they were used to. Paul Adhoch of Trace Kenya reveals that most of the children are forced to prostitution and child labor by their relatives. He said they were offered better lives and education. Adhoch said although some of the children are forced to work as house helps, most victims are forced to enter into prostitution. He said girls were previously major victims of such acts, but now even boys are being used for prostitution. He said Trace Kenya, which usually rescues such victims, has however met several challenges in their efforts to fight the menace. “People who launched complains with us refuse to give us more information when we take up the matter to the police,” he said. He also said they ensure children within Coast region are united with their families and taken back to school. However, for cases of children from upcountry or neighbouring countries,it is a hopeless fight. Adhoch said most children when sent back to their homes, they are taken to different cities or towns. He said perpetrators of such acts should be arrested and charged. Adhoch said the government and children’s department should come up with rescue centers where they could hide children rescued. “We currently have one centre only in Mombasa, but we need more in order to secure the children we rescue,”he said.