The Kenya Private Sector Alliance wants NASA to keep off businesses and instead focus on politics. It said yesterday that NASA’s call for boycott of Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside products will hurt many families. Kepsa said the boycott has caused anxiety among investors. There have been reports sales of products from the three firms have declined in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. In Kisumu, some products have been placed on special offer to attract customers. Kepsa chairman Nick Nesbitt said the boycott is interfering with the lives of apolitical players. “We have workers, suppliers, distributors and even retailers who are not aligned to any political party, but have been affected by the boycott,” he said on the sidelines of the Chief Information Officers’ Annual Symposium at the Enashipai Resort in Naivasha. Nesbitt expressed concern that the targetted firms employ thousands of people directly and indirectly. Though Kepsa cannot quantify the losses made so far, it is evident the effects of the boycott are being felt, he added. “We are asking politicians to keep politics and their fights away from businesses, as small traders and mama mbogas will be the biggest losers,” Nesbitt said. Kepsa has not approached political players for a solution to the boycott because it has no political affiliations, he said. Nesbitt said Kepsa works with the government in place at any given moment. Meanwhile, Kepsa said the country should borrow a leaf from other countries and go digital while holding elections. “Kenya is currently doing well in terms of technology evolution, but there are emerging challenges like access to capital and demand for innovation,” Nesbitt said. Rwanda’s chief information officer Josephine Nyiranzeyimana said her country has made major strides in ICT. She said the 30 districts in the country have been connected through fibre optic cable, while countrywide Internet penetration is at 41 per cent. Nyiranzeyimana said the Rwandan government is keen to increase digital literacy and make sure all citizens have access to the Internet and online services. “After the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, the country infrastructure was destroyed and we are currently using ICT as a tool of reaching out to the youths and fast-tracking development,” she said.