KENYANS will continue borrowing at the current rate of 14 per cent after the Central Bank yet again retained the benchmark lending rate at 10 per cent. This is the seventh time in a row the Central Bank Monetary Policy Committee has retained the rate following the introduction of the laws capping interest rates at 400 basis points above the CBR rate. The MPC attributed the decision to muted inflationary pressures with the cost of living measure expected to decline further in the following months. Overall monthly inflation fell to 5.7 per cent in October, falling within the government target range of between 2.5 and 7.5 per cent. “This decline was largely due to lower food prices, particularly for cabbages and Irish potatoes,” Central Bank governor Patrick Njoroge said in a statement. “This is despite an increase in international oil prices which has exerted upward pressure on fuel prices.” He added that improved weather conditions coupled with the extension of maize subsidy were expected to continue supporting a further lowering in food prices. The MPC noted that higher international oil prices had resulted in a slight jump with regard to the country’s current account deficit which grew to 6.5 per cent of gross domestic product in September compared to 6.4 per cent in July. “The current account deficit is expected to narrow to 6.2 per cent of GDP by December 2017 as a result of a slowdown in SGR-related imports and improved weather conditions which will support food production and agricultural exports,” Njoroge said. CBK foreign exchange reserves currently stands at $7.09 billion and together with precautionary arrangements with the International Monetary Fund, the reserves will continue to provide an adequate buffer against short-term shocks, the CBK said. Despite the interest rate cap, the MPC said that private sector credit grew 2.0 per cent in the 12 months to October compared to 1.7 per cent in September. “Notably, credit to the domestic trade, manufacturing, and real estate sectors grew by 12.6 per cent, 10.2 per cent, and 10.0 per cent respectively, to October 2017,” Njoroge said. The Central Bank governor has been pushing for a repeal of the interest rate capping laws because of the negative impact it has had on growth especially for small businesses.  A recent industry survey by the Kenya Bankers Association revealed the laws have failed to achieve the desired objectives. The MPC meets every two months to review the base lending rate.