 Squatters in Lamu have asked the National
Land Commission and the county government to resettle them in the more
than 350,000 acres of land whose acquisition was revoked by the national government. The over 1000 squatters from Bula
Rahma, Tewe, Mokowe, Hindi, Swahili Scheme and Manda said the land can accommodate all of them. Speaking yesterday before a meeting with Governor Fahim Twaha in Mokowe, they
said it was unfair for them to remain squatters when there was much idle land in the county. They want Twaha and NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri to meet give a way forward
on how they will be resettled. “The
governor said he would help us once he gets to office. That's why we have decided to come and meet him. There is enough land to resettle all squatters in this county," spokesman Rahima Kijipu said. They accused tycoons of grabbing public land that could be used to resettle them. In January 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta revoked ownership of over 350,000 acres of land in the county, saying it had been irregularly acquired.       seek him out ourselves.We demand to know why
we are squatters in a county that has over 350,000 acres of idle land.We want
the county government to resettle us on part of that land so we can also live
like normal people,”said Rahima Kijipu. They said
it was awkward that the county government had remained mum ever since the lands
were revoked and ownership reverted tio the county government. The squatters
said they are worried that with the continued silence,the lands could easily
land into the hands of grabbers,that’s is,if they haven’t already. “In Lamu
theres a tendency of tycoons just emerging from nowhere and before you know
it,they have grabbed land.We cant be squatters in our own land when there’s
something that can be done especially if the resources are available,”said
Fakhurdin Musa. In January
2015,president Uhuru Kenyatta revoked ownership of over 350,000 acres of land
that have been irregularly acquired. The lands
were handed back to the county government. However,the
county government has yet to give a way forward on how the lands will be used
since. Ends…photos attached