The NGO Coordination Board has summoned MUHURI chairman Khelef Khalifa over claims of tax evasion. Khelef is expected to appear before the investigations and enforcement committee of the board on Monday at 10am. He has been asked to appear alongside his secretary/CEO, treasurer and the finance manager. The board, in a November 3 letter, said failure to honour the summons will invite legal consequences as against the mentioned individuals. Lindon Nicolas, the regulator's legal manager, said defiance to the summonses will be to the organization's peril. "The meeting will also be attended by officers from KRA and Finance Reporting Centre." Khalifa was among three activists who had filled a petition at Supreme Court seeking the postponement of the repeat election. Their ground was that IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati had indicated he could not guarantee credible polls. Other applicants in the suit were Samuel Mohochi and Gacheke Gachihi. The hearing of the application which had been scheduled just a day before the repeat polls failed for lack of quorum in the Supreme Court.. Only Chief Justice David Maraga and Justice Isaac Lenaola out of seven judges were present when the court convened at 11am.  The court requires at least five judges for a properly constituted bench. Read: Bid to block poll flops as Supreme Court lacks quorum to hear suit Also Read:Election to go on, Supreme Court fails to raise quorum The NGO board said it is concerned at the nature of the governance structure of MUHURI especially following various compliance processes. It argued that the organization has not been filing the true reflection of its finances saying this raises doubts on other activities it is involved in. "Further to this, you must be well aware that furnishing the government with false information constitutes an offence punishable under the penal code," Lincoln said. "The Board is, therefore, considering carrying out both investigative and forensic audit on your organization". The board said it will only proceed with the investigations after the mentioned individuals honour the summon.        