Jubilee Strategist Washington Makodingo has drafted a Bill seeking to exclude Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties from Kenya. Makodingo wants Article 5 of the constitution amended to redefine Kenya's territory and exclude the four counties. He also wants the creation of Kuria county, which would consist of Kuria East and Kuria West constituencies. Notably, a majority of constituencies in the four counties Makodingo wants to be removed did not vote in the repeat presidential election on October 26. They are considered to be strongholds of National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga. "During this election, residents of four of the 47 counties heeded calls by their leaders to boycott and disrupt elections in most constituencies," the strategist argues. Makodingo claims that residents of these counties have "continually expressed their wish to be excluded from the territory if Kenya". "The objective of this Bill is, therefore, to amend the constitution to grant these residents their wish by excluding them from the territory of the Republic of Kenya," he adds. The Bill also seeks to make Kisumu county's North West Ward where Maseno is located part of Vihiga County. In doing so, the Bill reduces the number of constituencies to 263 and the number of counties to 44. Jubilee currently has a majority in both Parliament and the Senate. Makodingo's Bill comes a day after Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma drafted a secession Bill seeking to split Kenya to the People's Republic and the Central Republic. In the Bill to be tabled in Parliament, Kaluma wants 40 out of the 47 counties to secede and form the People’s Republic of Kenya. Kaluma argues that these counties have continually been discriminated upon by successive governments. According to the Bill, the People's Republic of Kenya would include major counties such as Nairobi and Mombasa. The People's Republic would consolidate vote-rich areas such as the Rift Valley, Western Kenya and the Coast. The seven counties that would form the Central Republic of Kenya are Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi. More on this: MP Kaluma drafts secession Bill to form 'People's Republic of Kenya'  