The pre-trial conference to identify issues for determination in the presidential poll petition will begin at 11am on Tuesday. Supreme Court registrar Esther Nyaiyaki said the court will hear petitions against Uhuru Kenyatta's win, filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau, Institute for Democratic Governance's Njonjo Mue and Khelef Khalifa. Mwau moved to the Supreme Court on Monday to challenge Uhuru's October 26 win saying IEBC violated the law by failing to conduct fresh nominations as required. He says the electoral agency violated Article 82(1)(b) and 2 (a, b) of the constitution by not complying with the mandatory requirement for nominations. More on this: Harun Mwau files petition challenging Uhuru's re-election Mue, the chair of the International Commission of Jurists, and MUHURI chairman Khelef Khalifa also petitioned the Supreme court. They argue that the fresh poll was not held in strict conformity with the constitution, applicable laws and as directed by the Court on September 1. They want the apex court to declare that Uhuru was not validly elected and that the declaration by IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati is null and void. More on this: Njonjo Mue, Khelef Khalif file petition against Uhuru's win A democratic governance lobby group filed a case for NASA leaders to be barred from holding public office for boycotting October's repeat election. IDEG listed Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang'ula, and James Orengo as respondents. The group wants the lot held responsible over election malpractices during the repeat presidential poll on October 26. Read: Lobby group asks Supreme Court to declare NASA leaders unfit for public office According to the rules of the presidential election, a pre-trial conference takes place eight days after the filing of the petition. The registrar was charged with information parties of the date and time. The rules say the court will: (a) frame contested and uncontested issues in the petition; (b) consider consolidation of petitions in cases where more than one petition is filed; (c) give directions specifying the place and time of the hearing of the petition; (d) direct the Commission on the handling of all the relevant election materials and documents relating to the petition before commencement of the hearing; and (e) make such other orders as may be necessary to ensure a fair determination of the petition.      