This attempt by the government to block National Supper Alliance supporters from going to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to receive their leader Raila Odinga is purely political. The airport's arrivals lounge is not a restricted area but a public place. The only restricted place at the airport is beyond Immigration, when you are travelling. There is no law barring anyone from being welcomed at the airport. We have seen people being welcomed by the public and their loved ones and the government's move is politically motivated. Will you have broken any law by going to welcome somebody at the airport? This is trying to intimidate the NASA leaders and supporters, the way we saw the government harass and try to intimidate businessman Jimmy Wanjigi. We have often seen the government arrest NASA- leaning politicians but it has not arrested Kandara MP Alice Wahome, despite clearly being caught committing an electoral offence during the October 26 repeat Presidential election. Wahome was caught assaulting an electoral official, but have we seen the government go full blast on her? There is no law NASA has broken in its push for electoral justice. Everything they are doing is constitutional. The government is simply trying to muzzle NASA from the political activity it has been undertaking – for instance, the motion to establish the People's Assembly being tabled and passed in the county assemblies. It is intimidation against NASA, with government officials telling the coalition that they are the Government and we cannot do anything we want. Also attempts by police to block NASA leaders from holding rallies deny them the forum to articulate their issues. The law only requires you to inform the police of the intention of your meeting. The Constitution allows you to demonstrate, picket and boycott and NASA has been engaging in all its activities within the constitutional framework. The government should just stop intimidating NASA leaders and their supporters because there is no law they have broken. The government should also apply the law equally. We have not seen Jubilee-leaning politicians, like Alice Wahome breaking the law, being arrested. You cannot apply the law in a skewed manner. NASA is trying its level best to operate within the law and openly. If the government continues with the intimidation we are seeing, it emboldens the targets to go underground. The writer is a lawyer and ex-CEO of the LSK