Kakamega Homeboyz striker Jeremiah Wanjala is SportPesa/Sports Journalist Association of Kenya (SJAK) Player of the Month for September. Wanjala garnered 19 votes to beat Gor Mahia’s Meddie Kagere, who got 15 votes, while Kariobangi Sharks striker Masoud Juma emerged third with 14 votes. He was awarded with a 49 inch LG smart TV, Sh100, 000 and Sh50, 000 for his team mates. “I want to thank the sponsors who came up with this brilliant initiative which has inspired us to work hard and maintain discipline,” said Wanjala during his coronation at the Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega County. In September, Wanjala found the back of the net twice and provided a similar number of assists to help his side to three wins and two draws. “I am very happy to win this award. I thank my team-mates and coach for helping me win it. This will motivate me in my bid to play for the national team Harambee Stars. I also have a dream of playing professional football in the Premier Soccer League in South Africa,” said Wanjala. He paid tribute to coach Mike Mururi for helping and trusting in him. “I didn’t like the way Sony sacked me,” he claimed. “But coach Mururi received me and boosted my confidence. I owe him a lot. Another reason why I’m doing well is because of discipline and following the coach’s instructions.” Mururi said the award was a clear indication that hard work and discipline pays. “I’m happy for him. He works very hard and he is disciplined. We were unbeaten in September winning three and drawing two matches,” said Mururi. He added that he wants to finish the league on a high by winning the remaining match against Nzoia this weekend. “Injuries reduced our momentum. We wanted to finish second but we cannot do it,” said the coach. “When I arrived here last season, the club was new to me and I was new to everything but this year I have had a better grip and the players bought well into my philosophy. I will try my best to hold on to the squad and make additions for a title charge next year.”