Bishop Cornelius Korir’s body will today be moved from the morgue to the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret for public viewing. There will also be a series of prayer meetings and vigils ahead of the burial tomorrow. A state-hired events company finalised preparations at the cathedral, where thousands of people are expected to view the body.  Sources at the church said the funeral will cost more than Sh50 million. Korir, who served in Eldoret, died suddenly on October 30.  He had diabetes and high blood pressure.  “We are all set for the final rites for our bishop and we thank the government for the help it has provided to give him a good sendoff,” Father Frederick Njoroge of the Eldoret Diocese said. The state gave the church a facelift. Tents were erected to accommodate the more than 30,000 people who will attend the requiem mass and vigils. Njoroge said only 3,000 people will be allowed into the church compound to witness the burial.  Large screens have been installed within the church compound and at the sports club, where mourners will be  able to follow events.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, bishops and not more than 200 other guests will have access to the tomb inside the church, where the bishop will be laid to rest after the state funeral service at the sports club. Njoroge said before his death, Korir had not indicated where he wanted to be buried. It is Archbishop Anthony Muheria of Nyeri who helped identify the site where Korir will be buried. After the burial, members of the public will be allowed to see the tomb. Hundreds of police officers have been deployed in the town to tighten security as guests begun arriving for the funeral.  Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said security teams will provide adequate support. “Everything will run according to the programme provided by the church,” he said. The Catholic Church will accord Korir the highest honours and burial rites. Engineers were making the final touches to the grave for the bishop inside a room located behind the altar inside the Sacred Heart Cathedral. Apart from being buried in the tomb, his body will be adorned in the vestment he loved most and the funeral will be characterized by the most solemn rites in the tradition of the Catholic Church.