CA director general Francis Wangusi has warned leaders against making utterances that may negatively affect the ICT sector. Wangusi was responding to NASA leader Raila Odinga's calls to boycott Safaricom claiming that it aided in rigging the August 8 general election. Last week, the Opposition leader asked his supporters to stop using Safaricom products, saying the firm influenced the presidential election. The telecommunications giant has denied claims it was involved in rigging. Read: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott Also read: Raila migrates from Safaricom to Airtel "Avoid making utterances that may dampen the investment climate in the country and ultimately compromise the quality of life for the mwananchi," Wangusi said in a statement on Tuesday. Wangusi said Kenyans have a right to choose what services they want and should not be compelled to do so. "We would like to encourage Kenyans to take advantage of the choice of services available in the vibrant ICT market without undue pressure from any quarter," he said. "ICT consumers should exercise their freedom of choice of services and service providers and create an enabling environment for further investment in the sector to spur the growth of our economy." The director asked Kenyans to restrain from vilifying businesses that have taken years of hard work to build.  "We encourage that any alleged election malpractices be reported to the relevant authorities," he said. On Monday, Safaricom Dealers Association said one million Kenyans risk losing their jobs if NASA goes ahead with its economic boycott. Chairperson Esther Muchemi said the political stalemate and campaigns for election has already lowered Mpesa commissions. She said the boycott will force them to downsize in order to meet operational costs. In Siaya, NASA supporters thronged Airtel shops after Raila was seen migrating from Safaricom on Monday. Deputy President William Ruto has termed the boycott criminal, saying it amounts to extortion. In a series of tweets, Ruto termed as criminal the Opposition's listing of companies to be affected by the boycott.  He wrote: "That companies have to 'donate' to supremo to avoid listing in the brazen and bizarre extortion racket-styled 'economic boycott'? Criminal! More on this: One million Kenyans to lose jobs with NASA boycott - Safaricom dealers Also read: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott