Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has hit back at ‘ignorant’ lawyers questioning his credentials. Murkomen said he is a distinguished lawyer and most of his critics are advisors of NASA leader Raila Odinga. In a Facebook post on Monday, Murkomen said the unnamed lawyers misled Raila to boycott the October 26 repeat polls. The Senate majority leader said it was disrespectful that his former students are among those doubting his ability as a lawyer. "To my colleagues in the legal profession who have been insulting me especially my former students I forgive you," Murkomen said in the post. Murkomen said he uses his legal knowledge to advise his seniors in politics, unlike his critics who misled Raila. "I have been seeing some ignorant people asking about my court representation. A total show of ignorance of what is law and the legal profession," he said.  Read: Raila is behind 'hopeless' petition against Justice Njoki Ndung'u - Murkomen Also read: Lumumba's verbal skills puzzle Kenyans as he trashes NASA petition He urged his fellow lawyers to respect the legal career by not insulting colleagues who hold contrary opinions. Murkomen was a law lecturer at Eldoret’s Moi University before he joined politics. The close ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto told his former law students to respect him by behaving ‘honorably.’ "It is laughable when I see those I taught law [at the university] behaving dishonourably," he noted. He further said: "I pity my colleagues when they pontificate on social media even on matters they don't understand." David Otieno accused Murkomen of prosecuting legal matters on Facebook and not in courtrooms. "I see nothing but a show of haughtiness riddled with obnoxious ignorance," Jairus Amunga wrote. But Emma Nthenya defended the Murkomen, advising him to ignore social media critics. "You can never win social media feuds," Nthenya said. Clement Januazaj said: "I pity those against you. In Kenya, having a contrary opinion to that of National Resistance Movement is a crime." Also read: KOT, Miguna chide Murkomen after claim Raila quitting race