Bishop Cornelius Korir's body has been moved to the Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret for public viewing ahead of Saturday's burial inside the church. Security was high around the town as hundreds of residents lined up to view the body. Catholic bishops and several politicians, led by Uasin Gishu Jackson Mandago, went to the cathedral for a requiem mass. The bishop, renowned for work in human rights, died last Monday at his residence, after suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure.  Mourners view Bishop Cornelius Korir's body, November 10, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are expected to attend a state funeral at Eldoret Sports Club. The government said Bishop Korir will receive a state burial in honour of his contribution to the peace in the country. Korir will be buried inside the Sacred Heart Cathedral as per the Catholic Church tradition for a serving bishop who dies in office. Father William Kosgey from the Eldoret Diocese said they will bury the respected clergyman inside the cathedral within a small chapel located near his official seat. The chapel has a statue of Maria.  Bishop Cornelius Korir's body is moved from the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue, November 10, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI  Women line up in Eldoret to accompany mourners transporting Bishop Cornelius Korir's body from the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary, November 10, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI Engineers and an events company hired by the government finalised preparations at the cathedral. Sources at the church said the funeral will cost more than Sh50 million. The government gave the church a face lift and tents were erected for about 30,000 people expected to attend prayer meetings, vigils and the burial. Large screens were also installed in the church compound and at the sports club so mourners can follow events. Uhuru, Ruto, bishops and not more than 200 other guests will have access to the tomb inside the church. "We are set for the final rites for our Bishop. We thank the government for its help," Father Frederick Njoroge of the Eldoret Diocese said. Read: Bishop Korir's death a great loss for church - Pope Francis