There is a new and exciting betting platform brought to you by Kenya’s leading sports firm Betway and Airtel Kenya. Introducing “BetwaySare”, the new platform that gives gamers who are registered with Airtel money an opportunity to place bets, withdraw and transfer their wins while on the Betway platform – all at no extra charge! This means that for all Airtel Money customer, interaction on the site will be zero rated. BetwaySare will be accessible on all mobile platforms and will reduce data usage and mobile money transactions for their fans. This will allow them to bet on games across major leagues and tournaments on the platform. According to survey by Geopoli, over 76% of Kenyans are involved in betting or gaming; with sports category topping the list of favorites. Speaking during the launch, Wanja Gikonyo, Betway Country Manager emphasized on the new platform offering a great opportunity for both Betway and Airtel customers to fully enjoy betting and win more for less. “This integrated experience powered by Airtel is a win-win for all our users. We believe zerorated data is what has been missing in taking gaming in Kenya to the next level,” she said.  She added that the integration and partnership with Airtel speaks to the company’s vision to enhance gaming that is powered by technology. Betway has established itself as the foremost online and mobile sports betting platform in Africa. The brand itself is already internationally recognized as a quality-driven provider of sports betting across the world, supplying simple-to- use technology to passionate fans. Lauding the partnership, Airtel’s Managing Director, Prasanta Das Sarma expressed his delight to partner with Betway in order to give Kenyans the experience of using BetwaySare “As a company we are delighted to work together with Betway to introduce a gaming platform that will not only make betting more affordable but will also drive towards financial inclusivity through easy access of finances via Airtel Money.  “BetwaySare is definitely going to be a game changer in the market as it will offer our consumers more benefits for less. We are committed to impacting the lives of the communities that we operate in by offering more choices at no extra charges in all our products and services. As such this partnership underscores this commitment and our vision of becoming Kenya’s most preferred mobile service provider.” Airtel Kenya and Betway advocate for responsible gaming by advising their consumers to do research before betting and to use what they can afford to bet as it is a form of recreation and not a means of livelihood.