President Uhuru Kenyatta began his second five-year term in office by holding talks with South Sudan President Salva Kiir and a special envoy of Chinese President Xi Jinping. The President first met Chinese special envoy Wang Jiarui, who represented President Xi at the swearing in ceremony at the Kasarani Sports Complex on Tuesday. China is currently Kenya’s biggest trading partner and a major investor, with interests ranging from construction to apparels and technology. The special envoy delivered a message that his country will continue supporting Kenya’s development progress. President Kenyatta later held talks with President Kiir, who was among 11 Heads of State who visited Kenya for the swearing-in ceremony. Kenya has played a leading role in the efforts to find a lasting solution to South Sudan peace. Africa integration, especially practical steps that make integration functional, and international trade are key planks of the vision President Kenyatta outlined in his address to the nation. He was sworn in for his second and final term. The President held talks with a special envoy of Congo-Brazaville President Denis Sassou Ngueso. Wang said, “My visit signifies the republic of China and the Communist Party of China’s support for Kenya and your government.” During his visit to the country, the special envoy is also expected to tour the Standard Gauge Railway, one of the flagship projects that have been accomplished through the China-Kenya cooperation. On his part, President Kenyatta thanked the people and government of China for their strong support for Kenya. In May this year, China elevated its bilateral relationship with Kenya to one of strategic cooperation as  Chinese leaders pledged to support Kenya achieve its development goals. China is likely to cross the Sh400 billion export mark to Kenya this year, a move that is likely to further widen the huge trade deficit between the two countries. Last year, Kenya exported goods worth Sh10 billion to China but imported goods imports worth Sh337.4 billion from the Asian powerhouse, necessitating a trade deficit of a whopping Sh317.4 billion.