Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has laid bare his worries to God ahead of the court ruling on the application by Evans Kidero to joined in the petition against him. The former governor put up a spirited fight at the High Court in a bid to be joined in a petition challenging Sonko's win in the August 8 election. Two voters, Japheth Muroko and Zachaeus Okoth, moved to court to challenge the results. More on this: Kidero says he’s gathering evidence,hints at challenging Sonko’s win Kidero's application for joinder is due to be decided this morning following the conclusions of the hearings on the matter on Wednesday. The incumbent, who has opposed the application, posted a prayer on Facebook seeking divine intervention ahead of the decision. "Heavenly father...I come before you this morning seeking for your help ahead of today's ruling on a petition challenging the victory you gave me on August 8," Sonko said. Sonko said God has always been fighting his battles for him and will not forsake him. "Father, it is because of you that I have never fought a losing battle throughout my life.You stood by me throughout my childhood and school life," he said. "When I escaped from prison to attend my late mum's burial you gave me victory and I was acquitted," he adds in the prayer note. Sonko said when he ventured in business, God was there to give him hope and victory. "....not forgetting how you changed my life from being brought up from a poor family to a humble family." "Father, when I first contested the Makadara parliamentary seat, you gave victory," he said. He said throughout his political career he has always been a servant of the people adding that God's mercy should be seen during the Court ruling. "As I pray and seek for your mercy father, I ask for a big miracle Lord. The miracles you have performed through me are countless," he said. Sonko said it was because of the miracles God has done for him. "....and to your people through me that Father I believe that today you are going to do again very big miracle for me in the mighty name of Jesus," he said. "I pray as I kneel down before you believing and trusting in your Mighty name." On Tuesday, Sonko accused Kidero of trying to challenge his win 'through the backdoor'. Sonko told Justice Msagha Mbogholi that Kidero’s attempt to join the petition as an interested party is prejudicial to him. IEBC has also opposed Kidero’s application. Kidero says he had new evidence to help the court reach a fair judgement. IEBC faulted Kidero for failing to explain why he did not file a petition against Sonko within the 28 days set by the Constitution. More on this: Kidero fights to be joined in petition against Sonko