ARE there foreigners quietly reaching out to Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and Raila Odinga as a way of laying the ground for national dialogue? We are told that diplomats based in Nairobi and a former African President are involved in quiet diplomacy that, if it succeeds, will see both sides of the political divide agree to some dialogue in the coming days. KENYA’S image abroad was severely tainted after government operatives forged a letter purporting to be from the US Institute of Peace containing remarks about the October 26 fresh polls. The letter was in a tweet by a Ministry of Foreign Affairs operative. The fraudulent document is presented as a letter from former US Assistant Secretary of State Johnnie Carson, who now serves as a senior adviser to USIP’s president. USIP said its logo was misused to give the appearance of the document having been issued by the Institute. The forgers forgot that USIP never endorses or opposes political candidates or parties in any country.  PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta’s choice of Westlands Primary School yesterday for the inspection of the ongoing KCPE examinations was at the centre of social media ridicule. Uhuru, who made his first public appearance after he was declared President-elect, did not receive kind words from some Kenyans on Twitter. Some mocked him for selecting a posh school at the heart of the capital city instead of taking a flight to far-flung schools in the North Rift to get the a view of the conduct of the national examinations. The bashing, mainly laced with political undertones, captured the raging political temperature that threatens to tear the country apart. Kenyans are avid social media users. THE online petition by Kenyans who did not take part in the last polls to recognise NASA Chief Raila Odinga remains a clear indication that the drama around the disputed presidential fresh polls on October 26 will not end soon. Raila has already warned of a People’s Assembly, which Jubilee bloggers have warned may amount to a rebellion. A senior boss of an international media house is a man under siege as an explosive dossier is about to hit the headlines. It involves him, a senior detective and a lady. Our mole tells us it’s only a matter of time as the scribe working on it is on the final touches. The boss faces deportation. The investigation could go on for years. A senior official in the Executive has been calling NASA financiers to demand they stop giving or the face the music. Key sources among them have now told Corridors that they are using proxies to fund NASA.      