When it was reported the Republican Senate candidate from Alabama had a sexual encounter with a 14-year-old when he was 32, several prominent leaders of his party urged him to drop out of the race. But Roy Moore has thus far refused to do so because he has a core support base that says they’d rather have an accused child molester representing Alabama in the Senate than a Democrat. So low has American politics sunk. Until Wednesday, President Donald Trump was uncharacteristically quiet on whether Moore should drop out of the race. But when he weighed in, he essentially endorsed the accused child molester without expressly doing so. His main reason? Moore has denied the allegations! Trump himself was the subject of accusations of sexual harassment. That didn’t stop him from being elected President. Now, Republican voters and some independents who voted for him are sowing what they reaped. Trump voters who were willing and did vote for Trump, no matter how glaringly obvious it was that he was not fit to be President and those now about to elect an accused child molester in Alabama as senator, are no different from those who voted for Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto in 2013 and this year. This was despite them facing serious crimes against humanity charges at the ICC when first elected and their abysmal record in the last five years. In other words, for these voters, there’s nothing their man can say, do or not do that would have them even consider withdrawing their support for him. This is because, in their view, the satisfaction they get in having their man defeating the opponent they hate is far more gratifying than the benefit they and the country can get by electing the opponent. This remains true, even when there’s convincing evidence the opponent would bring about changes they can greatly benefit from, compared to zero benefits they get from backing the man they so blindly support — for racist reasons in the US and tribalism in Kenya. That’s the very definition of madness and God save us from any more of this. But it doesn’t have to be this hopeless. During his endless and often outrageous antics when he running for President, many said Trump will “pivot” to being presidential when he gets past the primaries. That never happened. When he was elected against all odds, many hoped he would finally change upon assuming the high office. That, still, didn’t happen. When Uhuru and Ruto got into office in 2013, wise counsel was if they were smart, they would use the presidency to defeat the ICC cases as they did but, more importantly, they would use the office to unite the country, while pursuing an ambitious development agenda that would earn them a genuine election in 2017. The latter never happened, leading to their defeat at the polls on August 8. Uhuru is now poised to be sworn in against a backdrop of Raila and NASA making the case he’s not legitimately elected, and are planning to make the country ungovernable through various means they say are lawful and peaceful. Wiser counsel is for UhurRuto to drop any ideas they may have to respond in kind but, instead, find ways to unite the country to include forming a government that reflects the face of Kenya and agreeing to institute the reforms necessary to ensure we don’t go through the same nonsense come 2022. If UhuRuto once again give us a government where everyone from the top to the bottom in every ministry, department and parastatal is from only two communities, save for tokens here and there, then that will be the fuel that’ll sure drive the engine that is the National Resistance Movement: That will be the downfall of the government and, unfortunately, the country as well. Those are the choices, let them pick one.