Sofapaka technical director Martin Ndagano has questioned how some of the club’s highly talented players missed out on Harambee Stars call up ahead of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup starting this weekend here in Kenya. Ndagano said he was baffled with the decision by Harambee Stars expatriate coach Paul Put and his deputy Stanley Okumbi not to call up any of Batoto Ba Mungu players for the regional assignment despite the club winding up second in the just concluded Kenyan Premier League (KPL). “Honestly, I can’t really understand what qualities the national team selectors are looking for if Sofapaka players can miss out on Stars’ provisional squad. Obviously, finishing second in the league should imply there were stand-out players at Sofapaka who should have been considered for national duty,” said Ndagano. He cited indefatigable fullback Willis Ouma, midfielder Mohammed ‘Master’ Kilume and Wesley Onguso, saying they have matured and have what it takes to represent the national team.  “A player like Ouma (Willis) can be deployed at any defensive position and has been Sofapaka’s mainstay in the rear-guard. As for Kilume and Onguso, they have shown a lot of maturity and ought to be tried out at the national team,” explained Ndagano.  Unlike Ouma and Kilume, Onguso has previously graced the national team as a trialist before being dropped by Okumbi for strange reasons. Ndagano is a seasoned coach having coached Mukura Victory and Rayon Sport in the Rwandese league a couple of years ago. However, Ndagano said it’s the discretion of Harambee Stars coaches to select players of their choices, adding that what Put and Okumbi need is to be given a free-hand in the exercise if they are to succeed. “Although no Sofapaka player is involved in the current squad, I believe the selected players have the pedigree to help Harambee Stars win the title on home soil. A perfect start in their opening match will give the players the much needed confidence in subsequent fixtures,” he noted.