Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto have become "animals that drink blood", their archrival Raila Odinga has said. The NASA chief said this on Saturday in reference to supporters killed as crowds welcomed him back from his US tour on  November 17. Police put the number at five but the opposition said more than 30 were killed and is planning a memorial on Tuesday. This is the day for the Jubilee Party leaders' swearing-in for another five years at State House. Police have denied reports by rights organisations, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, which have raised concerns. They have denied use of excessive force and live ammunition and said they will issue a comprehensive report. More on this: Tear gas, gunshots as NASA supporters wait for Raila outside JKIA Also read: Five looters 'killed by mobs' during NASA protests - police In an address in Mlolongo last evening, Raila said the government does not respect mothers and children. "Hawa jamaa wamekuwa kama wanyama wanapenda kukunywa damu ya binadamu. Hawa jamaa si binadamu tena...hawa jamaa hawana heshima (These people have become like animals that drink people's blood. These people are no longer human...These people do not have respect," Raila said. "...Wanapiga hata akina mama...wanapigwa risasi ati kwa sababu wamekuja kulaki Raila nyumbani...mngewacha hawa watu mpige Raila risasi..ingekuwa afadhali (They beat women too...They were shot because they welcomed me back home...you should have let these people shoot Raila...that would have been better...)." 'UhuRuto must be charged at ICC' Raila said Uhuru and Ruto must answer to their crimes at the International Criminal Court. Following the 2007/8 post-election violence in which at least 1,300 people were killed, the two faced crimes against humanity charges at the ICC. The cases were dismissed for lack of evidence and political interference. Last week, NASA asked ICC to collect evidence on post-election killings, saying Uhuru can only rule by cowing the people into submission. Raila's adviser Salim Lone said said every single life needlessly extinguished is unacceptable and should be treated as a heinous crime. More on this: NASA asks ICC to probe post-poll deaths, rejects Uhuru 'forceful rule' Also read: NASA to swear in Raila as President next Tuesday Yesterday, Raila said: "Unamwaga damu ya mtoto...hawa jamaa mpaka washtakiwe kwa mahakama ya kibinadamu...hiyo ndiyo dawa yao...(You spill the blood of children...these people must be charge at a court that defends human rights..that is their medicine...)." 'Swearing-in more important than people' Raila further said Jubilee cares more about Tuesday's Sh300 million inauguration than the people killed in protests during the two elections. "Watu wetu wako kwa mortuary na hawa jamaa wanaandaa karamu kuapisha Uhuru. Wako na akili timamu hawa (The bodies or our people are in mortuaries yet these people are preparing a ceremony to swear-in Uhuru. Are they of sound mind)?" "Wale wendawazimu wataenda huko Kasarani...wakenya wazelendo watakuwa na sisi Jacaranda grounds tukiomboleza (Mad men will go to Kasarani. Patriotic Kenyans will mourn with us at Jacaranda grounds)." NASA leaders have been urged to cancel their prayer rally in Uhuru Park and join other Kenyans for the swearing-in. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said on Friday that the opposition’s parallel event impedes national unity. Kinyua, who chairs a committee planning the inauguration, said it will cost more than Sh300 million. They are expecting many heads of state and other dignitaries. Read: Is Sh300 million Uhuru swearing-in necessary in troubled Kenya? Also read: No sword for Uhuru at Tuesday's swearing-in Click here for the latest political news