The CoW that had earlier
strained diplomatic relations between Kenya and Tanzania was the Coalition of
the Willing.  This was when the Presidents of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda met on
several occasions to discuss development projects in the region, roping in President
Salva Kiir of South Sudan but sidelining Tanzania’s and Burundi’s. The other EAC
member states felt the two countries were not really committed to the EAC. But now, cows and chickens
have led to a diplomatic spat between Kenya and Tanzania, worsening the already
frosty bilateral ties between the two states. On the other hand, another
conflict between Kenya and Uganda is brewing over fish, or fishing waters.  It all started after Tanzania
seized and auctioned 1,300 cattle belonging to Maasais from Kenya. The cattle
had been driven across the border for pasture. Kenyan Livestock PS Andrew
Tuimur criticised Tanzanian authorities for auctioning the  cattle.  “I was surprised to learn
they auctioned the animals. The natural thing would have been to drive them
back to where they came from. The Foreign Affairs ministry has taken this up,”
he said.  And even before Kenya’s
Foreign Affairs took up the matter, Tanzania police burnt to death 6,400
one-day-old chicks from Kenya, on suspicion they could spread bird flu. The
day-old chicks were reportedly intercepted last Sunday in Namanga and a
Tanzanian businesswoman was arrested. Foreign Affairs CS has since
written a protest letter, but said Kenya will not avenge. She correctly said two
wrongs don’t make a right. But Tanzanian President Pombe
Magufuli has insisted that they acted according to their domestic laws, and
that they will not allow “other people” to graze on their land. He went
ahead and urged Kenyan authorities to use their domestic laws to deal with
Tanzanian pastoralists who may cross over to Kenya. To the West, Ugandan
authorities on Monday arrested 17 Kenyan fishermen, on what is thought to be
trespassing or breach of fishing laws. Five of them have been released after
paying Sh55,000 fine. You might be attempted to
call it animal diplomacy, only to realise that this development is actually
against the spirit of this kind of diplomatic engagement. Animal
diplomacy is considered a potent tool in engaging different nations. India,
Australia, China — there known as Panda diplomacy — and Japan have in the past
used animal gifts to bolster their diplomatic relations.   Well, to reason like the
realist I am, every state exists to maximise on its own self-interests and self-preservation.
But are these events in the spirit of EAC integration? And yet, as yesterday’s
editorial of this paper noted, we are trying to build one community that is also a single trade bloc and aspire to political federation. But on the other hand, inasmuch as we are neighbours boundaries are there to be
respected. In fact, we have had families that have taken each other to court
over land boundaries. Here in Kenya, we have had the Kericho-Kisumu county
boundary conflict as well as that of Meru-Tharaka Nithi. These are counties
within Kenya’s republic: How about two independent states? We must not wait for clashes between
herding communities over grazing land, water and cattle or over fishing waters to erupt,
as was the case on the Kenya-Ethiopia 860km border , which affected security Moyale
town. However,we expect President Magufuli to talk with Kenya not at us, but Kenya must
also ensure that border is respected.  