Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi yesterday said his ministry will require Sh17 billion to digitise the entire land registration system. He said the ministry have initiated the process and in due course, the government will be approving it at cabinet level. Kaimenyi said the ministry has set aside Sh900 million in its budget. He said he hopes the exercise will be complete in the next five years.  Digitisation of land records countrywide was initiated to improve efficiency, tame corruption and rampant cases of missing files. Some of the land registries, which were digitised during the two-month process that ended in September last year were in Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Machakos, Kajiado, Nakuru, Kisumu, Eldoret, Bungoma, Meru, Thika, Kiambu and Central Registry at Ardhi House in Nairobi. “We intend to digitise the entire land registration system and secure land documents. We believe digitisation will minimise the many cases of corruption reported,” Kaimenyi said. The CS also said cases of cartels have reduced, following the introduction of biometric control access cards. Kaimenyi said there is need to establish secure and authentic land tenure systems, which will help create a robust national spatial data infrastructure. Spatial data is a coordinated series of agreements on technology standards, institutional arrangements and policies. The CS said food security and poverty reduction cannot be achieved unless issues of access to land, security of tenure and the capacity to use land productively and in a sustainable manner are addressed. “Kenya is now well on the road towards digitisation, mapping and completion of the national spatial data infrastructure. We are prepared to share whatever experience we have in some of these areas for mutual learning,” Kaimenyi said. He spoke during the opening of the 51 governing council meeting of the Regional Centre for Mapping of Resources for Development. The Regional Centre for Mapping of Resources for Development, previously known as Regional Centre for Services in Surveying, Mapping and Remote Sensing was established in Nairobi in 1975 under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa and African Union. It is an intergovernmental organisation and currently has 20 contracting member states. They are Botswana, Burundi, Comoros, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia and Rwanda. The others are Seychelles, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.