DP William Ruto has asked police to protect the lives and property of all Kenyans. He asked police to move with speed and bring perpetrators of killings and destruction of property to book. Speaking at the St Mark’s ACK, Mukui Parish in Kabete during the Church’s 43rd Anniversary on Sunday, Ruto urged different communities to live together as they have done irrespective of their political affiliations. “We ask police to ensure there is no life lost or property destroyed,” said Ruto.  He said the government would not spare politicians who are involved in the violence. “The government will be firm and resolute to ensure lives and property of its citizens are safe. I say, nobody is above the law and action will be taken against those inciting Kenyans to violence irrespective of social status, political party or where one comes from,” the Deputy President said. “All Kenyans must respect the rule of law and abide by the constitution. Violence, anarchy or chaos will not earn any leader any position in this country,” added Ruto.  The Deputy President asked all Kenyans to reject those spreading hatred, incitement, ethnicity, confusion and division among them. “Kenyans should say no to hatred and resist violence, anarchy and reject those who want us to fight so that they can achieve their selfish interest,” said Ruto. He said Kenya does not belong to criminals and hooliganisms but citizens and patriots who trust the Constitution and the rule of law and people who believe in the Almighty God. The Deputy President was accompanied by Governor Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), MPs Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South). Others were MPs Jude Jomo (Kiambu Town), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Rehab Mugambi (Woman Representative, Nyeri), Githua Macukuru (Kabete), Gathoni Wa Muchomba (Women Rep, Kiambu) and Andrew Kagwa (Githunguri). They urged the government to take stern action against leaders who thrive on violence to achieve their selfish political interests. Ichung'wa told Nasa leader Raila Odinga to stop thriving on the blood of Kenyans to achieve his agenda.  "When the master of poverty and anarchy was out of the country, Kenyans were peaceful. But upon his return the first day he arrived, five people were killed and we are now told another six people have been killed today. This must stop,” the MP said. They said Kenyans were fed up with election issues and were optimistic that the Supreme Court will give its ruling in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kuria said Raila is not interested in any election but was only focused on chaotic situations to have a shared government. He added that the Opposition leader knows well that he has no numbers to compete against Uhuru. Waititu warned that the Opposition leader could lead the country into anarchy if his unconstitutional means to attaining power was not checked. “The government should stop taking lightly the work of Mr Odinga because he is determined to causing anarchy and chaos to achieve his selfish interests,” said Waititu. "Raila Odinga is not special and must follow the rule of law like the rest of Kenyans,” the Governor added. They expressed optimism that the Supreme Court will this time round give a ruling that can allow Kenyans move on with their development activities after almost a year of electioneering at the expense of activities that can improve the lives of the people. Ruto said he was confident that the Supreme Court would respect the wishes of Kenyans who turned up for the repeat presidential polls in October 26 to elect a candidate of their choice as they did in August 8 General Election. “We have engaged in politics for a long time but Kenyans now want to concentrate on development activities to improve their lives,” the DP said. The MPs said they were prepared for any eventuality during the Supreme Court ruling set for Monday, saying majority of Kenyans elected Uhuru on August 8 and approved it during the October 26 repeat election. The legislators said Mt Kenya will fully back the Deputy President for the top seat after Uhuru’s term expires in 2022.  "No one will stand in the way of the people of Central and Mt Kenya region when it comes to the turn of the Deputy President William Ruto to contest for the presidency come 2022,” Waititu said.