Did some police officers want to shoot opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday? Reporters covering the return of Raila overhead the police claim that they were only waiting for orders to shoot. “They have been telling us to take up positions and wait for the orders but none of them were issued,” said one officer along Jogoo Road moments before an object struck Raila’s car.  ***** It appears the state is not yet done with ex-IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe. Sources whisper to Corridors that some Jubilee operatives have again written to her employer, the United Nations, to have her dismissed. The first letter was reportedly done by Kenyan Representative to the UN Macharia Kamau. But it seems the UN has disregarded the Kenyan narrative. In fact, it seems the UN has more trust in her: Akombe has been promoted instead. Sources tell Corridors that her salary now could be three times that of the Kenyan head of state.  ***** The Jubilee top brass is reportedly scared stiff by the People’s Assembly spearheaded by the National Super Alliance. Sources say that there is a plot to fight off the formation of the assemblies in the counties through the corridors of justice. There are also reports of plans to infiltrate some of them with the aim of sabotaging their operations. A motion to establish the People’s Assemblies have been passed in at least 10 counties. On Thursday, Majority Leader Aden Duale asked the Controller of Budget to ensure taxpayer money is not used to fund the assemblies by the county governments. ***** Did the Supreme Court fall into the trap of the IEBC lawyers who came up with exorbitant printing costs to deny the petitioners the right to have a copy of the printed Voters’ Roll? The IEBC told the Supreme Court that it would cost Sh80 million to photocopy the register, which has 450,000 pages. If 1 A4 sheet allows 30 names then, approximately, 700,000 sheets maximum would be needed. That means the IEBC would spend Sh177 per page. The market price for printing is Sh2 per copy/page, which makes the total for printing the Voters’ Roll Sh1,400,000. Corridors can’t rule out that someone was already waiting for the tender!  ***** A bodyguard attached to one of the Executive’s officials was laughing at his boss, saying that whenever the official travels abroad he is always busy with a pen and paper making his own deals, despite being on an official trip. He said, “It is long since he travelled abroad, but he doesn’t leave his pen and paper when at home to take notes of his personal business.”