Knut top brass wrangles deepened yesterday as a group of delegates vowed to push for constitutional changes to kick out secretary general Wilson Sossion. In what could spark off Jubilee-NASA wars, delegates from Rift Valley, Central and parts of the Coast want changes to bar union officials from holding political offices. Delegates plan to move the proposed amendments during Knut’s 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa on December 13 and 14. Coast Knut spokesman Tom Kitu yesterday said the amendments were forwarded to the national office. “We made proposals in January. The secretary general has them. We hope to push for their ratification. They are long overdue,” Kitu said. Knut delegates from the three regions are lobbying members to support the amendments. The union’s 44-member National Executive Committee is meeting in Mombasa to plan the ADC, but factional wars have overshadowed the crucial retreat. Tuesday’s session, attended by Sossion and embattled chairman Mudzo Nzili, was stormy and ended in disarray. The two never shook hands. On Sunday, Sossion sent Nzili and vice chairman Samson Kaguma on a six-month terminal leave, pending retirement next year. However, Nzili got a reprieve after the Ministry of Labour barred the ADC from replacing him and Kaguma as they are yet to hit 60 years retirement age. A vicious war of words between Sossion and Nzili threatens to sink the union deeper into a leadership crisis. Nzili will retire on May 16 and Kaguma on April 2. Nyeri Knut boss Zachary Mathenge told the Star members’ interests must precede personal expedience. The union’s constitution stipulates all proposed changes be submitted to the secretary general not later than 60 days before the ADC. If approved by a simple majority of the 1,900 delegates, the amendments will be deposited with the registrar of trade unions for registration before taking effect. The Knut constitution, which was last amended in 2015, is silent on whether officials can double up as elected or nominated leaders.  Sossion’s nomination as an ODM MP has sparked turf wars in the union. Ironically, in a circular to branch officials ahead of the August 8 poll, Sossion asked those seeking political offices to quit union leadership.