One question that has been repeatedly asked is, what next after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win? As a country, I think we are slowly losing our sense of direction. Losing an election is neither a political nor a constitutional crisis. Elections are lost and people move on. It seems that it is only in Kenya where a lost election becomes a national crisis. In the August 8 election, hundreds of aspirants lost. None has sought to hold at ransom the areas they sought to represent. Most have moved on, while others have sought redress in the courts. In the November 2016 US elections, Hillary Clinton received 2.6 million more popular votes than Donald Trump, but Trump won more Electoral College votes. Turnout was just above 55 per cent and Trump won only 26.7 per cent of that vote. The elections ended. Trump is President. The loser conceded and America moved on. There were no sideshows or calls for dialogue or any other interventions. They simply stuck to the Constitution and forged ahead. It is becoming bad manners that whenever an election is held in Kenya, the losers, or in our case with the repeat presidential election, those who voluntarily opt out of the contest seek to whip up public emotions with a view to using extra-constitutional means to achieve their ambitions. We first experienced this with the disputed election of 2007, then in 2013 and now the same script is playing out. For a budding democracy, this trend does not reflect well on our political character and mannerisms, and has to stop. Sadly, one of the prime perpetrators of the perpetual playing of the victim by the opposition whenever they lose an election is the media, both local and international. The media in Kenya is abusing its agenda-setting role by working hard to create a crisis out of nothing. When Clinton lost to Trump, we didn’t see the American media create platforms for the loser to play the victim. The media didn’t run around with some perverted news headlines of oh, national crisis; oh, dialogue. In Kenya, the media has dedicated acres of space and airtime for the opposition to advance a crisis that doesn’t exist. In any election, the outcome is either a win or a loss. Nothing in between. One shouldn’t enter into an election contest expecting only victory — anything else is rigging. As a right-thinking Kenyan, I am dumbfounded by the media’s framing of the recent clear election outcome as a crisis. All I see in the media today is a well-designed campaign by the opposition to discredit constitutional institutions for selfish ends. The sensational television and newspaper headlines we are treated to every day are all a creation of an opposition that is unable to fight it out in a free and fair political contest. It is insincere for the media to continue creating an imaginary political crisis as if we all don’t know the laid-out constitutional recourse mechanisms. Raila Odinga losing the presidential race for the fifth time is not a national crisis. It’s an election loss like that of the more than 100 governor aspirants who lost; or MP aspirants who lost and moved on. We should not hold the country at ransom because an election was fairly lost. The media, clergy, civil society groups and citizens must stop coddling political gangsterism in which political losers become some kind of above-the-law gang-bangers commanding militia and alienating parts of the country from the mainstream. Kenya is one united sovereign state and anybody engaged in hyping and cheer-leading a nonexistent political crisis should be called out and ashamed.   Secretary general of the
ruling Jubilee Party