Tanzania was right in auctioning cows that trespassed into its territory, Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe has said. Dar es Salaam authorities auctioned some 1,300 cows belonging to Maasai pastoralists after their owners failed to pay a fine for illegal grazing in Tanzania. Some 6,400 chicks were also burnt by Tanzanian authorities for suspicion they could spread bird-flu in the country. Kiraithe regretted the happenings. "We wish they coulkd have handled the situation in a better way. But it doesn’t affect our relationship with Tanzanians. The country was strictly within its right to act in that manner," Kiraithe said. After cow action, chick torch and fishermen arrest, the government has said sovereignty of any country must be respected. Spokesperson Eric Kiraithe faulted Kenyans arrested in Uganda over illegal fishing. They have been released, though. He said Tanzania was right to auction 1,300 cows belonging to Kenyan herders because of illegal grazing. Kiraithe okayed the torch of 6,400 one-day-old chicks by Tanzania authority on suspicion on spreading bird flu. Diplomatic row seems to be escalating. Tanzania President John Magufuli said any cow that will graze illegally in his territory will suffer the same fate. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has written an official protest note to Tanzania over the confiscation and auction of 1300 cows. "If we must continue to be friends with Uganda, either their government or ours must take action based on the set rules if there is illegal finishing or car, bicycles thieves have gained entry," Kiraithe said Thursday in Mombasa during a media briefing. Kiraithe said laws won't be bend save diplomatic ties. "We should not view whatever is happening between us and Uganda as something big, it is normal," he said. Kiraithe said the "normal" tiff should not be politicised. The spokesperson however said they regret the Tanzania situation handled "that way instead of a better way". "But it doesn’t substantially affect our relationship with Tanzanians, our East Africa brothers," he said, adding the country was strictly within its right to act in that manner. Kiraithe said the due process was followed before the cows were auctioned or before chicks from Kenya were burned alive. Veterinarians in Tanzania condemned the country's decision The chicks worth Sh577, 000 were impounded on Monday at Namanga Border Post in Longido district, Arusha region, before they were burnt on Tuesday. Kiraithe said ways must be derived to have better judgement in case such scenario erupts again. Kiraithe also said the state will carry our an "in-depth" investigation on Laikipia shooting of 300 cows. "We will find out if only the bullet that killed the cows belonged to police or there were other mischievous players within the vicinity," he said. Police have maintained the killing of over 300 cows in Latia, Laikipia North, happened in a shootout with pastoralists. The pastoralists, it is alleged, had invaded private farms along the Laikipia-Samburu border. NASA leader Raila Odinga has weighed-in and demanded justice.