The international community failed Kenya in its hour of need, Opposition chief Raila Odinga has said, concerning the two presidential elections. Raila said the country's friends, led by the US and other democratic nations, continued to support a "deeply tainted election". He blamed envoys sent as observers, saying they approved the votes, both of which President Uhuru Kenyatta won. "Kenya is heading towards being axed into dictatorship and your envoys have not succeeded in making things better," he said while delivering a speech at Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Let me blunt again...envoys have sometimes contributed to the problem. IEBC said it could not guarantee credibility of polls but envoys in Nairobi said 'proceed'." The National Super Alliance leader called on people who support Kenya to help save it from continued radicalisation and polarisation. Raila told his audience in Washington DC that the country risks being rendered unable to protect its own people as anger and radicalisation are on the rise. "The west created leaders such as Mobutu Sese Seko because they cared only about fighting communism during the cold war. Now they will support anyone as long as they support the fight against extremism and terrorism," he said. "I have come to Washington to convey a very simple message. We need engagement with many arms of government to help find solutions  to the problems Kenya is facing because I am convinced that all is not lost. Kenyans are asking for a fresh and credible election." The former Prime Minister said the outcome of the repeat October 26 poll resulted from intimidation, "by the Jubilee government", of the IEBC and the judiciary. This has prompted NASA to lead a boycott and push for secession, he said. "After the bodyguard of the Supreme Court's Deputy Chief Justice was shot, the other judges did not feel safe and their request for enhanced security was declined. This led to lack of quorum in a ruling that would have probably stopped the election," he noted. "IEBC was undermined before the election and the judiciary fell under attack after CJ David Maraga nullified [Uhuru's] election. This was a trend-setting decision in Africa and other continents." The Supreme Court failed to raise quorum to hear the case on poll postponement on October 25. This eliminates what had appeared to be the last hurdle in stopping the re-run. Uhuru won the election with 98 per cent votes after a turnout of 28.84 per cent. Raila earlier dismissed the election saying Uhuru rigged against himself. More on this: Election to go on, Supreme Court fails to raise quorum Raila also stated that IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati's acknowledgement, that he could not assure a credible, vote showed the election should have been stopped. He cited the "current artificial majority" being enjoyed by Jubilee as one of the hindrances in the country's quest for reforms. The ODM leader compared Kenya's situation to those of other African states where leaders are seeking lengthy terms at the expense of democracy. "Africa deserves better. Africa can be better governed because we currently are witnessing elections being held like rituals where the incumbent is always thought to win. This is not democracy," he said. "The Jubilee government has a goal of ruling until 2032 and has targeted severe damage to institutions including IEBC and the judiciary. "This is because we have had presidents from two tribes of Kenya and another one from the same is preparing to take over after 2022. [This is] a direct death for democracy yet this is supposed to stimulate development in countries as exhibited after the move from single to multiparty politics." Earlier today, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said NASA's boycott is insignificant to the economy, which he described as strong and stable. The economy will bounce back in 2018, he said, adding the government was assessing the situation. NASA's other strategy is grounded on county's approval of the People's Assembly motion. Read: Kenya's economy strong and stable, NASA boycott trivial - Rotich