Money transfer company Dahabshiil has scaled up its workers' capacity to counter risks of financial fraud. Staff and agents across Kenya were trained afresh on Friday on how to prevent money laundering and flag suspicious transactions more effectively. A similar training took place in October last year. Read: Dahabshiil trains staff on curbing money laundering They were also taken through general security measures such as proper identification of clients and techniques for minimising risks of money laundering and other financial crimes. The firm, which has hundreds of employees in Kenya and other countries, provides money transfer services to individuals, companies and international humanitarian entities including the UN. The AML training is part of requirements by Central Bank - the regulator for Money Remittance Providers such as Dahabshiil and other financial institutions. The training also covered general security processes to enhance the safety of Dahabshiil's personnel and clients' cash. The group also learned deployment and implementation of the firm's customer care systems, so at to handle concerns properly, as required by the regulator. Deputy CEO Jamal Mohamud noted investment in capacity-building so workers play their roles in protecting the integrity of the country's financial systems. "We already have comprehensive systems and guidelines, against money laundering and other risks, in line with national and international best practice." Risk management expert Joshua Afune, who was among the trainers, noted employees of financial institutions are key in minimising risks of money laundering. "Without adequate capacity and commitment by staff, policies and guidelines against money laundering and other issues would remain on paper." President Uhuru Kenyatta signed Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering (Amendment) Act 2017 in March. It contains tough penalties for persons convicted of money laundering and other economic crimes. Click here for the latest political news