Mombasa county is facing a cash crisis and cannot provided proper services. Procurement appears to have run amok. Governor Hassan Joho on Thursday blamed this on “undeserved payments” made to suppliers with “abnormal rates”. “We have huge debts to pay. Roads can’t be constructed or hospitals improved,” the ODM deputy party leader said. He said “unscrupulous suppliers” have been offering services and products at exorbitant rates to the detriment of residents. Joho wants suppliers to lower their prices if they are to be paid for goods and services delivered to the county. If they fail, they will not be paid. “We shall not pay you. Go anywhere you want but you will not be paid,” Joho told the creditors. “Yesterday [Wednesday] a voucher was brought for payment... How can you sell one [insect spray] at Sh3,000? How daft do you think we are? Who are you to sell it to us at Sh3,000? “It is supposed to be Sh200. You can just top up Sh50 and sell at Sh250.” Antibacterial soaps, each averaging Sh300, were sold to the county for Sh2,500, he said. If Joho makes good his threat, suppliers risk losing more than Sh4.8 billion ‘owed’ to them. Finance and Economic Planning executive Maryann Mbaruk said during vetting that more than Sh4.8 billion has yet to be paid to suppliers. “The figure could be much higher than we think,” she said. Mbaruk blamed the huge bill on “over-procurement”. She said the procurement process had “gone overboard”. Procurement must be in tandem with revenue collected, she added. Mbaruk said loopholes must be sealed and “whatever is deducted must be remitted”. Her statement pointed to a possible revenue loss through dishonest collectors. The county has often missed its revenue targets. Joho said suppliers must price their products reasonably if the county is to continue doing business with the county. He also questioned the procurement regulations. “I must have a conversation with other 46 governors. We must scrutinise the procurement process,” Joho said. “We really need to understand what’s happening there.” It remains unclear whether the suppliers will comply with Joho’s directive and lower their prices. Some of the suppliers contacted for comment did not return calls. As Joho fights to tame rogue suppliers, a huge wage bill is draining the county. This denies it funds for crucial development projects, such as roads and waste management.