Kenya's revenue
collection slowed by Sh40 billion between July and October due to poor business activities resulting from a prolonged election cycle. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said the country has experienced long and tense political activities
in the past four months that saw businesses adapt a wait-and-see
attitude, hurting the country's revenue collection targets. This is expected to
pose a huge fiscal challenge considering that the country is
targeting total revenue collections of Sh1.634 trillion including
Appropriation in Aid ( AiA) this year against an overall expenditure
and net lending of Sh2.384 trillion. Data from the
Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) shows that actual receipts for the period
between July 1 and 31st August 2017 hit Sh251 billion, down from
Sh291.8 billion recorded over a similar period last year. In order to achieve
its revenue target, the government needs to collect at least Sh136
billion per month. At the same time,
Rotich projected the country's economy to grow between five to 5.1
per cent this year but rebound next year to six per cent and seven
per cent in medium term. The CS told Reuters that Kenya is expecting better rainfall this
year than last year, fostering growth in the agricultural sector that
accounts for over 35 per cent of the country's GDP. He explained
expected gained in the agricultural sector will remedy the country's
current challenges on the investment side that saw the purchasing manager’s
index (PMI) drop to 34.4 basis points, it lowest ever recorded level. Even so, Rotich said that the growth depends mostly on
stable political environment in the country. Kenya was forced to
conduct fresh presidential elections on October 26 after the Supreme
Court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory for general
elections conducted on August 8. Although the
election body declared Uhuru the winner in the repeat presidential
election that was boycotted by the main opposition coalition NASA, at least two petitions have been filed in the apex court to challenge
results.
 Prolonged drought in
the first quarter and heightened political activities in the second
quarter saw the country record 4.7 and five per cent GDP
respectively. Kenya has since revised its growth forecast from 5.5
per cent to five per cent. Last year, Kenya recorded a GDP growth of
5.9 per cent Rotich said the
revised growth means that total GDP is likely to be Sh80 billion less
compared to the current estimate of Sh7.33 trillion. Inflation eased in
the country last month, dropping to a 15 months low of 5.72 per cent
in October compared to 7.06 per cent recorded the previous month. 