Discrimination of people with HIV at workplaces in the Coast region has declined, according to the Federation of Kenya Employers. FKE Coast regional manager Salim Mwawaza also said the prevalence of the virus has also declined in the last three years. Currently, there are 1.6 million people who are HIV-positive working in the region, down from about 2.1 million in 2014. Wilson Atinga, a Mombasa Hospital representative, attributed this to behavioral change and the increased access to antiretroviral drugs. Speaking during the launch of a free HIV check-up for the public at the Mombasa Hospital on Friday, Mwawaza warned against discrimination of infected workers. “They are protected by law,” he said. The employers at the Coast have come up with a programme to encourage testing among workers. Employers will facilitate treatment, medication and counseling, according to Mwawaza. “Many workers fear knowing their status because they fear they might be victimised. That is why we have come up with a programme to encourage them to go for HIV testing because they are protected by law,” Mwawaza said. The programme will run up to December 1, World Aids Day. The day has been marked since 1988.  FKE has partnered with Mombasa Hospital to conduct a health camp and carry out awareness and testing for HIV/AIDS and reduce vulnerability among workers and their families. Mwawaza said the federation is also pushing for employers to know how to handle the infected employees. “We are glad cases of stigma and discrimination among those suffering from the pandemic ha gone down at the workplace,” said Mwawaza. “We have made numerous efforts to educate employers that those who are HIV positive can continue to be productive members of the workforce,” he said. FKE project officer William Wandera said people living with HIV are legally protected from discrimination in the workplace and during recruitment and warned employers against violations. “It is a serious crime to discriminate against any person infected with HIV,” he said.  