Former Gichugu MP Martha Karua has said she will appeal a High Court ruling dismissing her petition against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. "I am appealing so it's not over yet," Karua said on Twitter. Karua, who is Narc Kenya leader, filed the petition at the Kerugoya High Court. Through lawyer Gitobu Imanyara, she said the August 8 election was not free and fair. She cited the Supreme Court ruling that nullified the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta for a second term. More on this: Karua files case against Waiguru win, cites Supreme Court verdict But the High Court dismissed the politician's petition saying the case is "hopeless, defective and incurable". Making the ruling on Wednesday, Justice Lucy Gitari said the petition did not adhere to election petition rules and the Elections Act. She told Karua that this amounted to incompetence and abuse of the court process. Gitari noted election petition rule 8(1) is clear on the manner of filing so failure by Karua's team to file an affidavit supporting lack of requirements made the petition "fatally incompetent". She said the suit could not be salvaged even with consideration of public interest. "Public interest should not override requirements of rules and the law. The rules must be adhered to as the Act clearly stipulates." The judge ordered the petitioner to pay Sh10 million as the cost of the suit. More on this Karua's petition against Waiguru dismissed as 'hopeless, defective'  Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and majority leader Kamau Murango outside the High Court in Kerugoya after the judge struck out Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua's petition, November 15, 2017. /GEOFFREY KIBISU 'GOD, THE PEOPLE AT WORK' The ruling followed the application by Waiguru's lawyers Kamotho Waiganjo and Paul Nyamondi who had asked the court to throw it out as it was defective. The lawyers had also said it was an abuse of the court process and noted it did not indicate the date IEBC declared the election and its result. The Jubilee Governor had asked the court to dismiss the case with no cost. Karua, a former cabinet minister, didn't take the court's position lightly and accused the judge of having been compromised by her rival. "Is it a coincidence that the ruling was well covered by a battery of journalists while supporters of the third respondent celebrated before it was read?" she asked. "Did they know the outcome?" She urged the court to supply her with a copy of the judgment for her appeal.  Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and majority leader Kamau Murango outside the High Court in Kerugoya after the judge struck out Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua's petition, November 15, 2017. /GEOFFREY KIBISU The judge defended herself saying only she and her "trustworthy" secretary knew the content of her judgment before it was read. Gitari said it was unfortunate for the petitioner to claim the court colluded with the respondent as the process was above board and the law followed to the letter. "On the matter of journalists, I can't control that because they always come to cover proceedings. Today was not an exception. I can confidently say nobody other than my secretary knew the contents of the judgment." Waiguru, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and their supporters broke into song and dance outside the court to celebrate the win. The Governor termed the judgment "God's work" and noted her belief in him. "I knew I would emerge winner since the people spoke loudly when they elected me," she said. "This is a great win...I thank God for his favour and my lawyers who have done brilliant work. They spent a lot of time researching and at last we emerged winners."