The 2016 World Internal Security and Police Index report released last
Saturday ranked the Kenya Police Service at position 125 out of 127 and alas,
guys are surprised. And like that was not supposed to make the police rethink and review
their conduct, Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome on Sunday dismissed the report
as false and malicious.  “Kenya police ranked third
last in the world is not true. We are among the best in the world,” Koome said.
That’s not even funny. His boss, Inspector General
of Police Joseph Boinnet told the Nation we should not trust
the WISPI report.  And why shouldn't we trust the
report or the owners?  According to him, police have done well in dealing with security issues. That some individuals might have been hired to taint the service's
image. "The Kenya police service has been doing well in the recent past and
the report does not reflect what is in the country," he said. I am not sure which context Boinnet wants to look this issue in but our police deserved this ranking because they have worked really hard to achieve it.  Where did we expect of a police service that has AP officers as key suspects
in the brutal murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani? What did we expect
of a police force accused by a joint report by Amnesty International and Human
Rights Watch of killing "at least 33 people, possibly as many as 50, and injured
hundreds more in some parts of Nairobi after the August 8 election?"  Hold up! In
its defence, police spokesman George Kinoti said "only six were shot dead".  According to data collected by the
UK advocacy group Inquest,
there have been 55 fatal police shootings – total – in England and Wales from
1990 to 2014. The
German Police University concluded in 2012 that German police had killed
six people by gunshot in 2011 and seven in 2012. If our force is
among the best in the world according to Afande Koome, it must be in
harassing and brutalising anyone they think of intimidating on sight. This
includes the murders of nine-year-old Stephanie Moraa and six-month-old Baby
Pendo, of which police have denied. The Independent Policing Oversight
Authority has, however, recommended stern disciplinary actions against the
responsible commanders in both cases and 11 others. This includes the beating of a boda boda rider in Kisumu, who was stopped with his passenger on board, harassed, made to lie in a poll of dirty water and
as if that was not enough, one of the cop destroys his bike using a rungu. This includes the killing of businessman Bunty Shah, and in explaining it; the spokesperson says it was “a mistake”. University of Nairobi students are also not safe from
one of the best police when they storm their halls of residence and study rooms
and beat them up as collective punishment over some protests. The best police
boss on national TV defends this action because, well, “ we need to look at the
context”. Our best police service uses police vehicles, not to
patrol in urban areas, but to collect money from bars and liquor shops. And
when you call them for assistance, the response is that the police car doesn’t
have fuel. And the good cops allegedly shot dead 300 cattle in Laikipia because "armed herders were hiding behind them".  But all these are areas, if there is willingness, the police can improve on.  So, Afande Boinnet, no matter how good you are, there is always room for improvement.      