Kenya has deported 30 people involved in drug trafficking within universities, acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi has said. In April, the government launched investigations in public universities following reports that drug cartels were operating openly. Matiang'i, who is also the Education minister, said some drug lords were using students to sell hard drugs in universities, leading to an increase in cases of unrest. More on this: Drug lords using varsity students to sell are a security threat – Matiang’i The CS told the press on Monday: "We have recently deported over 30 drug peddlers posing as students in various universities in the country." Matiangi said the government asked the institutions to ensure the drugs are done away with. "We have been fairly ruthless in deporting international students who have either been caught selling drugs or are part of cartels," he said. "We have imposed serious responsibilities on our universities to ensure they are used for learning, not peddling drugs." The Cabinet Secretary said the was on drugs has been successful but is not yet over. "Let me not pretend...we have not been 100 per cent successful in control. The traffickers think ahead of us in terms of how they move the drugs," he said. "We are facing a crisis ... we have tried our best as a country." Early in the year, President Uhuru Kenyatta talked tough against drug dealing during a visit to the Coast, when he said that his administration would eliminate barons.  But he has been criticised for reiterating his remarks over the years while the illegal business carries on. More on this: [VIDEO] Kenya will eliminate drug barons wiping out Coast, Uhuru warns Also read: [VIDEO] Agitated Joho scolds Uhuru, Ruto on drug dealing, says war now political Deputy President William Ruto noted that money from drug dealing is used to fund terrorists. Al Shabaab militants have continued to carry out attacks in several parts of Kenya in response to the KDF's presence in Somalia, as part of the AMISOM peacekeeping force. More on this: Ruto tells opposition to declare stand on drugs, as narcotics mess up youth