Never before has Kenya been more in need of independent-minded politicians than now. Long gone are those who risked not only their freedom but also their lives to speak truth to those in power in the best interests of the Kenyan people during the regimes of Presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi. “The People’s Watchman”, Martin Shikuku, was detained for three years over the phrase “Kanu is Dead” on the floor of Parliament, following the assassination of another independent-minded politician, JM Kariuki, in 1975. Kariuki had decried the growing chasm between the new African political elite and the masses, saying, “Kenya has become a nation of 10 millionaires and 10 million beggars”. Currently, our political scene is full of politicians who, despite all outward appearances of urbane sophistication and eminent education, are extremely comfortable, interchangeably playing the roles of court jesters, ethnic warlords, economic pirates and boisterous sycophants. Even when called upon to debate national issues so as to make them more comprehensible to the masses, our current crop of politicians ultimately utilise public fora to sing the praises of their respective party leaders and unleash torrents of abuse at the party leader’s opposing nemesis. Yet, even in this rolling of pigs in the mud sty, there is no loyalty as witnessed by the frequent defections, where a politician comfortably takes up the tune of the new camp with alacrity. Kenyans should be a very worried lot when MPs, some of them long-serving and others in key House leadership positions, pledge loyalty in unequivocal terms such as, “I am a loyal servant of President Kenyatta”, or compete amongst themselves on who is more loyal to Raila Odinga amidst constant accusations and counter-accusations of moles and other rodents.  How can the loyalty of an MP be held ransom to their individual party leader as opposed to his/her electorate? Unfortunately, there exists a rather phenomenal disconnect between what is and what ought to be in the way leaders are chosen in our society. Ironically, while good leaders as well as their characteristics are known and held in high esteem for their leadership skills, the same are rarely remembered when get to the election cycle. The people’s representatives in MPs leave much to be desired once they get their slots in the august House. A good leader is aware of the fact that s/he is a servant of their constituent. From Jesus Christ, Mahatma Gandhi to Nelson Mandela, they all dedicated their lives to serving their people albeit in different ways. They held their people in high regard and willingly sacrificed of themselves for the betterment of their people. But the current crop of Kenyan leaders would not know the first thing about service to the people. That is why they lie, cheat, and deceive the electorate at every opportunity. They have no transparency in their dealings and scant respect for the electorate and these are the factors which have dulled their collective conscience to such an extent that they steal from the public coffers with impunity, use taxpayers money for their own selfish ends and indulge in all manner of over-indulgence, while the common man is at pains to make ends meet and it is only by the grace of God that they somehow manage to keep body and soul together. Getting service from an MP is a herculean task and most go missing in action as soon as they are declared winner, and only make intermittent appearances in their constituencies. In our political arena, the voter comes last; till the next election. However, a leader is only but a reflection of the people he leads. The Kenyan electorate has, therefore, gotten the leaders it deserves. Harsh as this may seem, it is the naked truth for the simple fact that these so-called leaders got to Parliament via the ballot. Voters wield the power to ensure the country has good leadership. So, when they choose to bastardize that power and elect incompetent leaders, then the electorate has only itself to blame. By virtue of this fact alone, all the crying, whining, and moaning about incompetent leadership in this country should cease and desist with immediate effect. At best it can be equated to the lament of the boy who cried wolf, at worst it is nothing but a gross display of hypocrisy of the highest order!            