Two people were on Thursday evening killed by suspected KPR in Bisan Hargeisa, Garissa, in an incident residents say could be linked to last year’s killing of more than 100 camels. Issa Ali, a local veterinary officer, was killed alongside Bisahr Hillow, a boda boda rider.  About 4km from Bisan Hargeisa, the two were accosted by suspected Kenya Police Reservists from the neighbouring Mwingi subcounty. A herder who witnessed the shooting said an argument ensued between the vet and some herders. Abdullahi Abdi said he received a phone call from a herder at around 5.30pm, two hours after they had parted with the victims, informing him of the tragic incident. “Immediately after I was informed about the incident, I contacted the OCS who referred me to his counterpart in Kyso, where the scene took place. But they were slow in responding, prompting us to hire a private car to go and collect the bodies,” he said. Abdi added, “On arrival, we found the bodies of the two who had gunshot wounds. The vet’s body had deep panga cuts on his legs, an indication he might have been tortured before he was killed. The killers also deflated the tyres of the motorbike, completely immobilising it.” The killers, who according to the herder wore military fatigues, also ransacked the bodies and took away money and other valuables. Beside the bodies were spent cartridges. Speaking to the press at Garissa mortuary where the bodies were taken, MP Ali Wario said Issa’s torture is a clear indication the killers knew him. “Issa played a crucial role in the investigations of last year’s incident, where suspected police officers killed more than 100 camels,” Wario said. Issa was a scout during Ipoa’s investigations. Consoling the families, Wario condemned the act and urged the Inspector General of Police to ensure those behind the murder are arrested and charged. He said this is the fourth incident that has occurred in less than three months. The MP urged his colleagues from Mwingi to have a discussion on the incident that has led to loss of lives and property. The bodies were interred at Garissa Muslims cemetery in accordance to Islamic rites.  