This year’s 17th edition of the Lamu cultural festival ended on a high on Sunday, following a generally successful four-day period of cultural showcasing from the native Swahili communities in Lamu. The festival began on a high note  in the Lamu old town, with residents and visitors getting a rare opportunity to freely interact and witness the magical lifestyle of the Swahili communities in Lamu. The four-day fete ran from November 16 to 19. The Lamu Cultural Festival is an annual event celebrated to showcase the rich culture and heritage of Lamu’s Swahili people, which has captivated the world for centuries. The festival was officially launched back in 2001 by the then Tourism minister Najib Balala, with the sole objective of celebrating the Swahili culture, while at the same time using the platform to grow tourism in the region. Speculation had been rife that the fragile and unpredictable state of security in Lamu and the current political climate in the country would affect turnout at this year’s edition of the Lamu Cultural Festival. This year’s festival unlike the previous ones, attracted a higher number of domestic tourists compared to international ones. Feiswal Miji, secretary seneral of the Lamu Cultural Festival Promotional Group, said this year’s event cost Sh8.4 million. “We expected more international tourists than the number that turned up, but we are optimistic that things will be better in the 18th edition of the festival in 2018,” he said. Group chairperson Ghalib Alwy said the fete had been quite successful, despite the financial setbacks experienced in preparing for this year’s event. The edition received very little sponsorship compared to previous ones. Most big sponsors for the annual event, many of whom are foreign firms, failed to turn up thanks to the unpredictability of the political climate, while the few who did  offered minimal support.   HISTORICAL ALLURE Lamu old town is a historical city that was listed as a Unesco World Heritage site in 2001. It boasts of being a rich reservoir of cultures that depict the lives of Africans, Arabs and Indians who occupied the region in past decades and also showcases the types of trades they engaged in. This year’s cultural festival was themed ‘Peace and Cohesion’, which was coined following the intense political situation the country has witnessed in recent times. This fete was also considered a litmus test on whether tourists have regained confidence to visit the region that has been marred with insecurity caused by frequent al Shabaab attacks, which have left scores of security officers and civilians dead.  From the look of things, more still needs to be done to lure tourists back. Lamu’s tourism was badly hit in 2014 and 2015 due to the threats of terrorism and introduction of travel restrictions by some foreign countries to its citizens, following the killing of over 100 people by al Shabaab militants in June 2014 in Mpeketoni and its environs. This year’s event witnessed a minimal number of guests compared to previous years, with many attributing the minimal turnout to the political climate in the country and insecurity issues in Lamu. Over 30,000 people, most of whom were domestic tourists, turned up for the festival. Locals and tourists witnessed various competitions, including dhow and Kasa races, swimming, donkey race and dances from the Anidan Group at the Mkunguni Square. There were also jahazi races, traditional dances and performances, music and poetry.   BOOMING BUSINESS The famous donkey race was won by Annas Abdalla, 18. The race was sponsored by the Silverstone Air, a chartered airline that has announced its first daily flights from Lamu to Nairobi’s Wilson Airport via the Malindi Airport as from November 24. Hoteliers, boat operators, fishermen, grocers and small-scale traders reaped the most profit.The huge number of visistors who turned up for the festival meant that their services and goods were in demand, five times more than on any normal day. Sports, Culture and Arts CS Hassan Wario, who graced the event as the chief guest, urged Kenyans to invest more in cultural tourism. Wario asked Kenyans to emulate countries like Nigeria and the US for their dedicated efforts in preserving their cultures, even through the movies they act (Nollywood and Hollywood). Today, the town risks being delisted as a Unesco World heritage site due to too much westernisation. Many are upbeat and hopeful that future festivals will be more successful.  Ali Bunu, a hotelier in Lamu town and the proprietor of the prestigious Sun Sail Hotel, said even this year’s event was a success.  “My hotel was fully booked two weeks to the festival, and by the time the festival kicked off on Thursday,” he said. Awadh Hassan, chairperson of the Lamu Boat Operators’ Association, says normally on any bad day, a boat operator goes home without a single cent. But during the festival, there are more than enough people to ferry around and as such, it only depends on how one plans for the shifts they are to undergo using their vessels.  Security was also tightened in the Lamu old town, as county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo assured visitors and locals of security both during and after the festival. “We had enough security here in the island and all over the county, and all visitors and Lamu people attending the cultural festival should rest assured that their security is guaranteed,” he said. “We have also added more officers on our roads and at sea to ensure we don’t have any reason to worry.”   CHECK-UPS AND EXERCISES Apart from the cultural aspect, residents and visitors got free medical services, checkups, medication and medical advice courtesy of the Safari Doctors at no charge.  “We want to help those who can’t afford medical care and those who can’t access medical facilities and institutions in the county and country. The response was awesome,” medic Hawa Noor said. Locals and guests who attended the festival were also for the first time introduced to physical fitness classes, where they took part in  exercises courtesy of the Lamu Fitness Initiative Group, which is chaired by Athman Mahazi. Mahazi said laziness and overweightness is an issue for many people in Lamu.