At the start of the season, Thika United’s presence in the SportPesa Premier League was nearly scuttled by the enforcement by the Football Kenya Federation of the financial compliance requirements. The beneficiary then would have been Zoo Kericho but ultimately, Thika complied and Zoo managed to get into the top tier league for the very first time after the league was expanded to include 18 teams.  Now, one of them will yet again decide on the fate of the other when they collide this afternoon in Kericho in a relegation battle six-pointer. The two sides are separated by just two points and even a draw will not be good enough as they try to fend off relegation. Zoo will be buoyed by the fact that they will be playing in front of their own fans at the Green Stadium but Thika will take heart from their recent performances that included victory over outgoing champions Tusker.  Nicholas Kipkirui and Mike Madonya will be required to be at their best if Sammy Okoth’s men are to get the victory they badly need. Thika on the other hand, will look up on Eugene Mukangula and Chibueze Onwudi to get something from this clash. Zoo home form in the campaign has put them in good stead to beat the drop. That will need to continue in this clash that will go a long way to decide their top flight future. Thika have not been good travelers but have enjoyed good results against the newly promoted sides. They will hope to continue that run with three points that will all but guarantee they remain among the elite for another campaign. With Mathare United and Western Stima both picking three points in their outings over the weekend, the onus is on this two sdies to also get wins and take the fight for survival to the last day of the campaign in three days’ time. A win for Thika will see them leapfrog Zoo and occupy the safety spot going into the weekend while a win for the Kericho side will see them require hold onto their place in the top flight league as they will have 40 points—five more than Thika and Stima with only a match remaining. Elsewhere, Vihiga United today face Palos at Moi Stadium in Kisumu hoping to close the gap on the top three teams in the National Super League. Vihiga dropped to fourth on the NSL log because they were not in action over the weekend. They have 71 points, four behind leaders Ushuru and three behind second-placed Wazito while third-placed KCB have 73 points. Ushuru, Wazito and KCB have played one more than Vihiga. Vihiga coach Edward Manoah said: “We are taking all our remaining matches as finals. We don’t want to make any mistakes because we want automatic qualification to the top tier league.” Palos have lost the last three matches and coach Hesbon Nyabinge is under pressure to win the game. On Sunday, the Makini School sponsored side lost 2-0 against promotion favourites Ushuru at Moi Stadium. Palos are seventh with 45 points having won 10 encounters, drawn a record 15 games and lost 8.      