Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina yesterday denounced claims he has been leading Central Kenya leaders in opposing the re-appointment of Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Speaking to the media in Nairobi, Maina said he accused Kiunjuri of breaching the Jubilee campaign agenda by supporting his opponent – independent candidate Dan Wamahiu – in the run-up to the August 8 General Election.  “Nyeri has its own leadership and we don’t expect any advice from anybody, not to mention Kinjuri himself. It was surprising that he would interfere against Jubilee Party and the leadership of Nyeri by supporting an independent candidate,” Maina said.  A local newspaper on Saturday outlined that the Jubilee lawmaker was dissatisfied with Kiunjuri for allegedly meddling with the region’s politics and, hence, did not deserve to be re-appointment in Uhuru’s next Cabinet.  This prompted 16 MPs from the region to castigate Maina, saying ‘he was speaking on behalf of agents driven by a desire to bring division, confusion and hatred in Mt Kenya’.  The legislators, led by Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru, said the senator did not consult the region’s leadership before ‘purporting to speak on their behalf regarding Kiunjuri’s re-appointment’. “Maina has engaged and sustained political war within Nyeri as well as the region. He has evidently started a political war with Kiunjuri,” Mariru said. An MP who sought anonymity told the Star they are shaping up the 2022 succession game plan and are fronting Kiunjuri to take over from Uhuru.  “The truth of the matter is that when the dust settles, I can tell you for free that this is all about 2022 succession politics. Everyone looks at the tallest tree in the forest and there is a plan to cut this tree. Let us just wait and see,” the legislator said.  But Maina responded, “What such people could be suffering from is ambitious imagination. What comes in the future is nobody’s decision or determination”. Maina accused Kiunjuri of urging the head of the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa, Nyeri, to rally behind his main challenger – Wamahiu.  He said he sponsored 90 per cent of Nyeri MCA candidates to clinch their seats using the Jubilee ticket.  “I will continue engaging all leaders in the region because they are my brothers and sisters,” the Senator said.