 The end came unexpectedly for Robert Gabriel Mugabe, 93. It was an unlikely moment for a boisterous fellow who told former British Premier Tony Blair, 'Zimbabwe is mine'. He thought the people adored him and only found out too late they loved Zimbabwe more. Zimbabwe wouldn’t risk of a day under a Mugabe held hostage in the palace by his wife 'Gucci' Grace Ntombizodwa and the G40 conspirators. That’s reason for the frenzied welcome of his prototype 'Crocodile' Emmerson Mnangagwa. It’s difficult to say for certain who between the Mnangagwa group of vagrant liberation war remnants and Grace’s G40 young economic thugs could be the better option for Zimbabweans. My virtual study group is unanimous Zimbabweans just flipped one side of the coin for another. Zimbabwe is not the first African country to fall under the spell of a false start. Mugabe, like other African autocrats, has managed to succeed himself through Mnangagwa, and retained his authoritarian aristocracy. Zimbabwe is the latest embarrassing child of fake independence and disastrous autocratic renewal; the AU membership congratulatory messages a mockery of the aspiration of African people to be free. Mugabe's exit terrifies despotic incumbents. In Kenya, the prelude to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Tuesday inauguration was inundated with jobseeking talking heads with magic solutions for the ethnic entitlement and exclusion fashioned in his first term. To them the ‘promise of inclusion' is the ultimate solution to his dishonourable illegitimate label. Zimbabwe mirrors Kenya to a fault; the excited enthusiasm of political uhuru and misplaced optimism and betrayal of land reform of the early 1960s; blinkered personality cult, single-party in the 1970s and human rights violations in the 1990s. The germination of authoritarianism, maturity of dictatorship and economic pillage ripened in the 1990s when Zimbabwe liberators tasted freedom to loot. This necessitated electoral fraud. Zimbabwe is struggling to come out of the stranglehold of dictatorship that was Kenya’s bane when Zimbabwe became independent in 1980; meanwhile Kenya is reneging on a progressive new Constitution and falling back to autocracy. In Africa, the underlying discomfort always begins with tinkering with elections.  At 37 years of nationhood, the world should be petrified that Zimbabwe is undergoing a second round of “African spasms” of state capture by counterfeit liberators turned tormentors. It’s a prototype lie laced with pious guilty platitudes to laud Zimbabwe as an example of peaceful transition. Truth is the peace idiom has replaced justice in the African political kingdom inherited to replace the white with the black oppressor. The unmarked graveyards are testament that no African liberator intended other than to trade white with black oppression. It’s no secret the Mugabe retinue under Mnangagwa pillaged Zimbabwe’s social, political and economic lifeline, turning Zimbabwe from a breadbasket to a desolate basket case. Luis Franceschi puts it nicely that, “Zimbabwe’s democracy had become a charade. It was the façade that hid the unjustified personality cult of a leader whose excessive permanence in power eroded institutions and people. With, or without, his express consent, Mugabe became a weapon for the swift, irrational and insensitive exploitation of a people”. Chimurenga, the liberation war clarion bestowed to Africa, was reversed into atrocious fratricide in the 1989 “clean-up” genocide of the Ndebele, 1990s land reform massacres and sanctioned looting of the public purse by power inebriated Mugabe with Mnangagwa at the helm of his associates. Mnangagwa presided over the carnages graduating from Mugabe's personal assistant and bodyguard to spy chief, minister for defence and finance. In sexed diplomatic accounts, the country fortunes deteriorated at the same pace as did the get-rich pillage momentum. Today the riches of Mugabe and Mnangagwa only contrast each other; but who’s complaining?  How long the allure of a Mugabe replica will hold will depend on Zimbabweans. The false accolade of peaceful transition won’t and shouldn’t inspire democracy forces in Zimbabwe. It should stimulate new impetus in local democratic forces to forge dependence away from dishonest international partners.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,