President Uhuru Kenyatta will today chair a two-day economic strategy meeting, only a day after the Supreme Court upheld his October 26 reelection. Sources within the Presidency yesterday told the Star today’s meeting will be held at Harambee House while tomorrow’s session will be at the Treasury. “Of key importance to the President is the impact that the lengthy election period has had on the economy and what must be done to ensure a quick recovery,” a Cabinet source told the Star. Read: Kenya's private sector records worst performance in September The meetings, also to be attended by Deputy President William Ruto, are to evaluate the country’s economic standing. Kenya is currently negotiating for debt restructuring. Treasury has announced that it is negotiating with creditors after it emerged that Kenya may not be able to meet its debt repayment obligations. Uhuru is also said to be keen on how counties are meeting their obligations given the long electioneering period.  Ruto is the chair of the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council, which deals with budget, economy and financial management and integrated development at both the national and county level. The meetings will also be attended by Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (Treasury), Adan Mohammed (Industrialisation), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution and Planning) and Amina Mohammed (Foreign and International Trade). Uhuru will also be briefed on the revenue collection, which has slowed down since the beginning of the 2017/2018 financial year. The meeting follows another held last Tuesday, where Uhuru met members of his economic team and African Development Bank to discuss continued implementation of the country’s transformation agenda. The meeting, which took place at Harambee House, was attended by Rotich, Treasury PS Kamau Thugge, senior adviser on social sectors Ruth Kagia and Deputy Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita.   African Development Bank Director General Gabriel Negatu also attended the meeting. The team presented options on accelerating economic transformation, especially focusing on programmes that can make Kenya globally competitive, while directly impacting ordinary Kenyans. “The primary goal has to be to lift the lives of ordinary Kenyans,” Uhuru said. Uhuru is said to have been hosting several sectoral meetings even as he awaited for the Supreme Court to decide on the petitions challenging his reelection. In the last two weeks, he has been briefed on the energy and water sectors as well as hosting a meeting on the transformation of Nairobi City. Read: Mobile payments drop Sh22bn in August over sluggish economy  