Two top Senate chiefs are among former county leaders expected before a House watchdog committee to account for spending of public funds. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and chief whip Susan Kihika are on the spot over questionable expenditure of millions of shillings of taxpayer money. Auditor General Edward Ouko has indicted Lusaka, former Bungoma governor, and Kihika, former Nakuru county assembly speaker, for suspect use of public funds. They will be grilled by the Senate Public Accounts Committee. Ouko's audit report on the Bungoma county administration for the year ending June 30, 2016, bears an adverse opinion. This means huge sums of public funds could not be accounted for. Lusaka is expected to account for assets inherited from the defunct local authorities excluded from the county's total fixed assets balance worth Sh3.16 billion. “No handover report was availed for audit review to show how the assets and liabilities of the defunct local authorities were taken over by the County Executive of Bungoma,” Ouko says. The auditor says the accuracy and completeness of the assets balance could not be confirmed. Ouko wants the Lusaka administration to account for Sh194.9 million expenditure on goods and services. The auditor say the expenditure was not recorded in Ifmis, but was recorded in the county's financial statement after manual reconciliation. “The management has not explained the variances between the two sets of records which should normally provide identical balances,” Ouko says. "Consequently, the accuracy and completeness of the fincial statements cannot be confirmed." Kihika is indicted in Sh24.9 million unsupported spending on MCAs' foreign travels in the 2015-16 financial year with an unexplained sum difference of Sh1.9 million. The MCAs toured London, Canada, Australia, New Orleans and New York. “Most of the expenditures under foreign travel were in respect of air tickets and night-outs per diems. Some of the expenditures lacked proper or adequate documentation that would authenticate them,” Ouko says. Kihika is also on the spot over Sh42.5 million expenditure on MCAs' local travels in allowances and transport costs, which lack proper documentation. Local travels involved attending the County Assembly Forum, inquiry by the Finance Committee, hospitality supplies and services, board meetings, conferences and seminars, devolution conference and consultative forum for the assembly and executive. Bungoma risks losing Sh25.9 million in uncleared loans by defaulting youth and women's groups. Some Sh47.2 million was disbursed to the groups, but only Sh21.5 million was recovered as of June last year. The former Bungoma governor is on the spotlight over Sh24 million outstanding imprests. Ouko says he cannot confirm its accuracy and recoverability because auditors were not given details of beneficiaries and dates of issuance.