The Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU) has been given five days to hold an Eritrean national they say is a key figure behind a human trafficking network in Kenya and abroad. Gebremeskel Kahssay Bahta was arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Sunday. The suspect has been on terror watch list since 2011.  "The respondent is involved in human trafficking in Kenya and has associates who run the cartel who are also been investigated," police said. Court documents also shows that he was deported in 2005 after he was found to be in Kenya illegally.  He tried to block his deportation by suing the Attorney General and the Immigration but his application was rejected by High Court Judge Roselyn Wendo in March 14, 2007. In the ruling, Justice Wendo said his deportation was proper and the Immigration Minister could not be faulted since he acted in accordance with the law. The judge said the suspect withheld some material facts and he was in breach of the immigration act hence was not entitled to any orders. On Thursday, ATPU told court that Bahta arrived in Kenya from United Arab Emirates through a KQ flight and was about to travel to South Africa when he was nabbed. According to an affidavit by Sergeant Esther Chao, he had bought a ticket and checked in for a flight using an Eritrean passport. Further, the officer while seeking to hold him pending investigations, said the suspects phones were being analysed at their forensic laboratory for purposes of identifying his associates. "His travel documents needs to be verified to determine their authenticity at the Eritrean Embassy," said Chao. The officer said they required also want to verify his United Arab Emirates resident Identity Card and his Visa. Police also want to contact South Africa, Mozambique, Angola, Thailand, Zimbabwe and South Sudan Embassies.  "We are investigating offences of human trafficking and terrorism related offenses against the suspect and intend to charge him with the said offences once investigations are concluded," Chao said. Consequently resident magistrate Muthoni Nzibe allowed the application and directed that he be taken back to court after five days.