Students and teachers in Kisumu county attributed their good performances in KCPE to God, as they celebrated the results. Students, teachers and parents at both public and private schools burst into song and danced on Monday after Education CS Fred Matiang’i relelased the results. Most schools in the county had students with over 400 marks, a spot check by the Star revealed. Students attributed their good results to prayers, determination, hard work and support from both their teachers and and parents. Jacinta Achieng from Makini School, scored 439 marks to emerge tops in the county. It was the first time the school sat the KCPE exams. Achieng said God had rewarded their efforts after a long journey. “I want to thank God for the good results and for making sure that we made it. I cannot forget the support from our teachers and parents,” Achieng said.  Makini School had 25 candidates. The second pupil scored 430 and was followed by students with 428, 427 and 419 marks. Headteacher Margaret Wanyonyi thanked parents for supporting teachers and the school’s management to deliver the good results. “The students have made us proud,” Wanyonyi said. At MM SHA Primary School, Nicy Agwenge topped the list with 432 marks. The 14-year-old girl wants to join Alliance High Shool. She wants to be the first neurosurgeon from their family. “It took me one hour to accept the result because I didn’t believe I could do this well,” Agwenge said. Linet Atieno scored 411 markes. She wants to join Kenya High and later become a pilot.  At Golden Elite School, Cynthia Matara topped with 423 marks. She was followed by Stephaney Tara with 417 and  Cynthia Beth with 416. Like Achieng, Matara thanked God for her good result. The 14-year-old wants to join Kenya High. She also aspires to become a neurosurgeon.  Tara said she would like to become a civil engineer and wants to join Alliance High School. “I faced somes challenge in English and Kiswahili but I’m happy I still posted good results,” Tara said. Golden Elite School director Charles Ochome said good planning, hard work, prayers and support from parents contributed to their good performance.