A petition that may block the Supreme Court from determining the fresh presidential petitions has been filed before the Judicial Service Commission. Yesterday, an activist petitioned the JSC to stop three Supreme Court judges from hearing the case challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26 election. Kelvin Njihia wants Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and justices Ibrahim Mohamed and Isaac Lenaola barred from presiding over the case. He argues that Justice Ibrahim should be barred because of his inability to perform his duties, owing to physical incapacity. The judge’s illness was announced by Chief Justice David Maraga during the determination of the petition filed by NASA leader Raila Odinga challenging the August 8 election. “The said judge has failed to perform his duty and has been missing in office as a judge of the Supreme Court,” Njihia says. He avers the issue, despite its seriousness, has not been addressed by the JSC or the Chief Justice. “The continued absence of the judge is enough proof of his physical incapacity to carry out his duties.” Njihia  wants Mwilu and Lenaola barred until the petitions pending before the JSC over their integrity are resolved. Njihia says they have been accused of judicial gross misconduct, breach of the judicial code of conduct and integrity. “Their credibility to handle a presidential petition is questionable.” Justice Maraga recently told parties in the case filed by Muhuri boss Khelef Khalif on the impact of Raila’s withdrawal that Judge Ibrahim was being treated outside the country. He said this was among the reasons the apex court could not hear the case that sought to stop last month’s polls. The court was hit by a lack of quorum, following Justice Ibrahim’s absence. Justice Njoki Ndung’u, Jackton Ojwang’ and Smokin Wanjala were also unavailable. Only justices Maraga and Lenaola were available. For the Supreme Court to be properly constituted, there must be at least 5 judges present. Njihia says Ibrahim’s absence “is hurting and injuring the functions of the Supreme Court as decisions of the court are supposed to be made by odd numbers, but now it has been left to be decided by an even number and thus a matter which needs a vote will be faced with difficulties and will serve as an injustice.” He says the JSC has also kept quiet on issues that were presented to it in relation to the accusations against justices Mwilu and Lenaola.