Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has told her rivals at the August 8 election that they were right about her combativeness. She added, however, that the description fits her only because she is fighting for the rights of the common wananchi. “When my opponents described me as combative, I accepted because I would not hesitate to become combative when I’m fighting for the rights of lowly Kenyans,” Ngilu said on Monday. “Actually, when it comes to championing the rights of the downtrodden, Combat is my second name.” She said she cannot afford to be a passive bystander as some people commit injustices against others. “Even my Christian upbringing tells me I would become an accomplice if I stood by without taking action when others are unfairly treated,” the new county chief said. Ngilu spoke when she met the clergy from the county at the Kitui Agricultural Training Institute. She reached out to the clerics to help her deliver on her promises. “I hope from this consultative meeting you’ll walk with me to deliver Kitui from poverty to prosperity and development,” Ngilu told the religious community. “Your support is invaluable because the church has been instrumental in making governments work.” She said she would not be combative if morality and fairness were upheld in society. Ngilu urged residents, the church, professionals and non-governmental organisations to join her in “getting the people of Kitui out of the yoke of marginalisation, poverty and underdevelopment”. She reminded her rivals that elections have nothing to do with grudges and extended an olive branch so they work together in the interest of the county. Political differences arose during the election, but those are now water under the bridge, she said.  “The reality now is that I’m the governor for all the people of Kitui,” she said. The church leaders included retired head of the Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Benjamin Nzimbi, bishops Samuel Kathiita of the Full Gospel Church and Robert Mutemi of the Global Church of Africa. The clerics agreed to support Ngilu so she can achieve her five-point agenda for Kitui. Mutemi said they will walk with the governor as she fights poverty, water scarcity and food insecurity. They resolved that the county bans liqour and miraa brought to Kitui from other areas. Mutemi said drug abuse estroys the social fabric of the county. The meeting also decided that a complaints desk be set up at the governor’s offices so residents can report misdeeds by the county officials. Residents would also use the desk to compliment the best-performing officers.