The High Court will determine on November 16 whether an application filed by Nakumatt Holdings to allow it operate under administration. This was after the troubled retailer, through Lawyer Kamau Karuri, applied for an administration order in the same court last month proposing the appointment of Peter Kahi of PKF Consulting Limited as an independent administrator to perform his functions in the interest of its creditors. Karuri told the court that if the company is put under an administrator, it will be able to come back on its feet and pay its creditors. "To benefit from liquidation will only be the secured creditors as opposed to unsecured creditors, we want a solution which will benefit all the creditors alike",said Karuri. The court heard that Tuskys want to buy shares from Nakumatt and the negotiations are at the final stages. Counsel for Nakumatt however told the court that they have chosen to have details of the consultations remain private and confidential until they are done. Justice Joseph Onguto however cautioned the Nakumatt advocate that to make his ruling which will be in public domain, he will be inclined to make inferences to the said confidential document. The confidential shares purchase document between Nakumatt and Tuskys was only presented to the judge but concealed from the entire court. Creditors and landlords opposed to the administration arrangement insisted that Nakumatt ought to go on liquidation arguing that the administration order sought is only a delaying tactic by the debtor. "They had promised to give us a payment plan in December and the company already admitted that they are not able to pay the debt amounting to Sh.40 billion. If they go on administration, how sure are we that they will pay us soon," said a counsel representing one of the landlords. At the same time, some creditors were comfortable with the administration order sought but they nevertheless raised concerns over the alleged confidential documents. They asked the court to intervene for them to have details of the consultations between Nakumatt and Tuskys before the deal is sealed for them to make informed decisions. Nakumatt Holdings last week served all the 90 creditors with court documents in their insolvency case. The move by Nakumatt was after most of its creditors, especially suppliers and landlords, denied it a chance to table a fresh debt settlement plan in 60 days. 