A group of civil societies and trade unions have dismissed the October 26 repeat presidential election as a sham. They say it lacks credibility and legitimacy. The lobby calling itself 'We The People' claims President Uhuru Kenyatta lacks legitimacy to lead the country. It cites the low voter turnout during Thursday's poll. The IEBC put the total voter turnout at 38.8 per cent, translating to 7,616,217. The group now wants a one-year transition period within which Kenyans will heal and a new electoral agency be put in place to oversee other elections. During the one-year transition period, Kenyans should make a decision on how the country should be run. The team claimed the IEBC was never independent, given the confession of both former commissioner Roselyn Akombe and chairman Wafula Chebukati a week to the repeat poll. "The election suffered from a low turnout, including the absence of participation in some parts of the country. This denies the election a broad-based mandate," Benard Mkaisi from 'We The People' said. “This means Kenya is not only back to where it started in August, but is also faced with deepening and dangerous national crisis.” The lobby co-convener Njonjo Mue, however, kept everyone guessing on whether the outfit will petition the reelection of Uhuru at the Supreme Court. Njonjo said Kenyans have the constitutionally allowed seven days to make a decision to either moving to court or not. “We the People are concerned that a legal challenge is again probable, and far from resolving the failure of August 8 election, it raises the prospect of yet another election being held within the 60 days as required by the Constitution,” Zahid Rajan from Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu said. Speaking a day after the official declaration of results, the team also opposed calls by the opposition to have another election within 90 days. "We need time to get our house in order, which includes disbanding the IEBC, 90 days is not sufficient," Njonjo said. 'We The People' is a lobby group bringing together trade unions, civil society, academia, media practitioners and members of the public.     