This
year has been a challenging one for the health sector. As we moved from one
health worker strike to another, critical services were affected. Many
children went unimmunised, more mothers opted to deliver at home and many
patients missed their TB and ARV medications. The country was exposed
to the risk of epidemics and resistance to medications.  There was a real
concern therefore that the great strides we had made in health were being
reversed. In fact the ministry had to conduct catch-up campaigns
to ensure that Kenyans and in particular the most vulnerable such as pregnant mothers
and children got access to life saving services.   The
health sector is now stable and the ministry appreciates the recent decision by nurses and other
health workers to resume duty and hope that sustainable solutions for
industrial unrest shall be found. Even as we confidently look into the future,
there are immediate concerns we must address as a nation. The short rains are with us. They are a blessing and will undoubtedly enhance food security and boost incomes for farmers and traders. However, there are many dangers ahead. Waterborne diseases such as cholera and typhoid may rebound. Diseases such as hepatitis A, influenza, Rift Valley fever and dengue fever could pose a threat. Already we are witnessing destructive flooding leading to burst sewers and water shortages. Further still, there is a high risk of a large increase in the mosquito population, either during or immediately after the end of the short rains. In many areas visibility on the roads is reduced and the risk of accidents is high. Recently, and as result of rains in August and September, we saw an upsurge in malaria cases in Baringo, Marsabit and Turkana in which at least 10 people lost their lives. We have since brought the situation under control and these regions now have adequate stock of supplies to deal with any emergency. I would like to assure Kenyans that the national and county governments have made adequate preparations to deal with such eventualities. Specifically, we have distributed 250,000 mosquito nets, 150,000 doses of antimalarial drugs and we have stocked county pharmacies with adequate stocks of medicines and other supplies to deal with cholera and other waterborne diseases. However, I would like to urge everyone to be vigilant. To all communities, I would encourage that we maintain good hygiene, including handwashing; sleeping under insecticide-treated nets and ensuring drinking water is safe. I urge Kenyans to be cautious on the roads, which are slippery, and to take other measures to prevent deaths and injuries caused by accidents due to reduced visibility, floods and landslides. To the county governments, I urge them to have contingency plans and ensure that the necessary commodities are available at the right place and the right time. The ministry of Health will work with the county governments on this matter. Further, I strongly advise the county governments to have their rapid response teams on alert and ready for deployment at the shortest notice. In the short to medium term, the counties should invest substantially to improve their water and sanitation infrastructure as well as step up routine inspection of food joints and restaurants. We thank our development and implementing partners for always being with us, even in times of crisis.  During this season, we continue to request their support to ensure that the entire country is ready to deal with any possible epidemic and natural disaster that may arise during or after the short rains. Specifically, we count on our partners to assist in deploying logistics and emergency care centres whenever called upon. At the ministry of Health we assure Kenyans again that our emergency plans are ready and we shall work with other agencies, including the National Disaster Operations Centre.  This year has been particularly difficult as we struggled with cholera, with 3,244 cases being reported resulting in 60 deaths.  It is noteworthy that these deaths and suffering can be avoided through good sanitation and hygiene practices. Collectively, as a country, we do not have to suffer as a result of natural phenomena such as rain. I look forward to a rainy season full of hope and optimism and I’m confident that together as Kenyans, we shall deal with any health-related challenges that may arise. Dr Cleopa Mailu is the Cabinet
Secretary, Ministry of Health  