ARE the officials of Kenya’s Embassy in the USA mobilising
protests against NASA chief Raila Odinga
who is visiting Donald Trump land? Those aware of the plan have told us that
the there is an elaborate scheme to discredit Raila and a budget has been set aside.
Apart from following Raila to see who he meets and possibly find out what
discussions transpire, we are told that some anti-Raila T-shirts have been
printed and a few people will be mobilised to wear them and carry placards
denouncing the NASA leader.    CABINET Secretaries are in a panic after the Star published the
names of those who are likely to be fired and others who have a fifty-fifty
chance of retaining their jobs. Three Cabinet ministers called Corridors to
find out if the Star had more details about that impending shuffle. Interestingly,
some of those who called are the ones on the chopping board because they are
reported to have failed to deliver.   JUST why were lawyers Paul
Muite and PLO Lumumba dropped from
representing the IEBC in the new presidential petition? We are told the IEBC
felt that the two were out of touch with matters technology and retaining them
as lead lawyers was going to affect the team’s performance. We are told the
IEBC is now relying on young and tech-savvy assistants to put together the relevant
defence so that they can demolish all the arguments presented before the
court.    NASA’s push to have a People’s Assembly established in all
the 47 counties has turned to be a complicated puzzle for the majority of NASA
leaders who appear not to understand what exactly the opposition are
pushing for. A popular governor serving two terms from Nyanza was at the
weekend at pains to explain the concept during a funeral in his county, giving
three conflicting scenarios to describe it. The governor, who has an active
petition in court, first tried to liken the concept to the Bunge la
Wananchi before changing to some violent uprising and realising he was not
making sense to the mourners, who appeared not to be convinced. He changed to “a
parallel form of parliament”, throwing everyone into laughter. **   Where
did National Transport and Safety Authority boss Francis Meja go? For some time now, little has been heard from him,
but that is not the major issue. The matter that is bothering many Narobians is
the number of city matatus plying various routes that have been fitted with
blaring exhaust pipes and disco lights and offensive graffiti. Some motorists
have told Corridors that driving at night has become a major risk.     