There has been a lot of debate on the formation of the proposed People's Assembly by NASA. First, I think it’s within the rights of citizens to assemble for legal and constitutional purposes to express themselves and to air their opinions and to be heard. However, it would be proper for the People's Assembly not to be transformed into a forum for subverting the rule of law and constitutionalism. There is a responsibility for the organisers not to attempt to convert the PA into what we saw in Egypt: The concept of Tahrir Square. We learn lessons from history. What we saw from Tahrir Square, was nothing noble. It was not anything that was in line with the pursuit of good governance or a just cause. It was about overthrowing a regime and removing it from office through the unconstitutional mechanisms. But I would also appeal to the government not to overreact by attempting to crush the People’s Assembly. For the last several years, we have had the Bunge la Mwananchi, an informal assembly of a few citizens who meet on the streets of Nairobi to express themselves and to vent on the political issues of the day. If the People’s Assembly is modeled along the Bunge la Mwananchi concept, they should be allowed to move on. But it would be interesting to watch how the promoters of the People's Assembly intend to proceed with its management and administration. Running a parliament is expensive. It comes with administration costs, logistical costs, venue cost – you name it. There are two levels at which the People's Assembly can engage with the county assemblies. The law is not restrictive in terms of where legislation can originate. It can originate from an MP or senator working in consultation with the membership of the People's Assembly to introduce legislation on a matter affecting the county governments. So, if NASA were intent on moving in that direction, then the route to go is to frame a Bill that they can disseminate to the various county assemblies through the individual members. If the promoters of the People’s Assembly are intent on amending the Constitution by popular initiative the body mandated by the Constitution to deliver a proposed draft bill to the county assemblies is the IEBC. er three months forward the draft bill to each speaker of the county assembly. The writer is the former Speaker, Embu county assembly