Clergymen in Nyeri county will today ‘cleanse’ the governor’s office.  The ceremony will be done in the morning before the swearing-in of Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga as the new governor in the afternoon. Kahiga has denied reports that there have been night meetings to pressure him to resign to pave the way for a by-election. Kahiga, who has been the Deputy Governor since the August 8 General Election, will be elevated following the death of Governor Wahome Gakuru. He died in a horror crash on the Thika Superhighway on Tuesday last week. Nyeri leaders arrived at the decision following the death of the second governor while in office. In February, Governor Nderitu Gachagua died of pancreatic cancer at a London hospital. Deputy Governor Samuel Wamathai took over for the remainder of the term. Kahiga will be the fourth governor to be sworn-in in 10 months. It is not clear whether traditional Kikuyu elders will be involved in the cleansing. At the same time, Kahiga said on Saturday he is not under pressure from anybody.  “Legal advisers have asked me to take the oath of office so that I can be able to execute my duties as governor,” he said. The swearing-in ceremony was earlier scheduled for Thursday, but was postponed at the last minute. He also denied reports there have been night meetings to pressure him to resign to pave the way for a by-election. Meanwhile, the governor promised to work together with Nyeri people and leaders to ensure that his vision is realised. “Every vision of the late governor will be achieved. I shall spend more hours to ensure that this is met as this was his will,” he said. The Nyeri county burial preparations committee, led by spokesman and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, the family and Wamathai said prayers will be held daily in the Kamukunji grounds, Nyeri, until Gakuru’s burial. Nyeri woman representative Rahab Mukami urged residents of Nyeri to ignore propaganda. She told them not to mind the speculation going round about the late governor and instead work together during this mourning period. Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina urged all leaders of Nyeri to join hands and shun divisive politics in order to give Gakuru a decent burial.  