Development projects are going on because there is a framework where everybody
knows their role. Politicians will talk but the technocrats are busy doing
their work, says Julius Muia, director general of Vision 2030
Delivery Secretariat. He spoke to this writer on the status of the vision's implementation since it was launched in 2008.   The Star: What was the idea behind the flagship projects in Vision 2030, and
who put together the blueprint? Muia: It is a
decision that was arrived at [in 2007] by the National Economic and Social
Council, a high-level think tank under the Office of the President, which was
chaired by President Mwai Kibaki. The NESC was
put together in 2005, and in looking to help the country think strategically
about development, council members went to Denmark, Malaysia and
Mauritius, and that is where they got the framework for Vision 2030. When they came
back, the recommendation they made was that Kenya should have a development
framework. And from then
on, Kibaki as the chairman of NESC said yes, let's go ahead and give this
country a vision. And that was prepared from December 2006 up to December 2007,
but launched in June 2008, after the coalition government of PNU and ODM came
to office. Why Vision 2030? Vision 2030 is
the first development framework that was ever done by Kenyans themselves. It
was done by Kenyans for themselves and is being implemented by Kenyans
themselves. It is not like
other development frameworks, such as Millennium Development Goals [MDGs]
and Sustainable Development Goals, which
have international-driven structural adjustments programmes. Those
are foreign, but Vision 2030 is our own, and the other beauty about it is that
it touches every part of the country. It does not
discriminate like in the past, when we had partisan development frameworks
looking at the narrow Northern corridor. It looks to open up the country. The
next corridor is Lapsset. Vision 2030 is
so inclusive, it considers all other aspects of development. If you look at the
political party manifestos, all of them are derived from Vision 2030. A lot of
countries have asked us to tell them how we developed the Vision, how we are
implementing it. There are a lot of countries that have come to Kenya to
benchmark with us and listen to us. Will Vision 2030 be complete by year 2030? I asked that
question to implementers in June during a knowledge-sharing forum, where we
invited all implementers of the Vision 2030 in government and administered a
questionnaire. We were
surprised that they rated the implementation on average at 53 per cent. This is
per percentage of full implementation by 2030, which means we are halfway in
terms of perception of the implementation. That ties with
the periodicity because from 2008-30 is about 22 years, and from 2008 to date
is about nine years. So if in nine of those 22 years the estimate is that we
have done 53 per cent, then that is to say we are on course. In fact, we are
likely to achieve the goal ahead of 2030. What were the main projects in the Vision 2030 blueprint? Vision 2030
has 182 flagship projects in the medium [second] term. People tend to remember
the infrastructure projects that they can see — roads, railway rural
electrification and others. There are
other projects outside infrastructure in social, economic and political
pillars. In social
pillar, we have population and urbanisation as one of the big projects, because
when you look at Kenya, about one in three people live in urban areas. Looking at the
population that is projected in the Vision 2030, by then, 60 per cent of
Kenyans will be living in urban areas. Therefore, the question of how the
cities will grow, and orderly urbanisation, is a very big flagship project. That has
informed the National Geospatial Plan, which has identified where urban areas
should be. It is also informing physical planning of a lot of cities, some of
which are coming up, and others adjoined and connected with the existing cities.
 These include Tatu
City, which is in Ruiru, connecting with Nairobi, and Konza Technology City,
which is now responding to the challenge of population and urbanisation. And if you
look at most upcountry areas, there is going to be a lot of physical planning,
so that the cities can be planned properly in an orderly manner and have proper
housing for people. That is an infrastructure-related project that is in the social
pillar that people don't see. Does a change of regime affect implementation, and how has the
relationship been between stakeholders? The beauty of
Vision 2030 is that it identified the projects to be implemented and executed
by different ministries, institutions and the private sector. That way, you
reduce the vision into something that can be chewed. Because when
you leave it at a high level, it will be so mammoth, but when you reduce it to
definite projects, then it is in granular form that can be implemented. There is a lot
of positivity. There is a lot happening in the country, that is why you find
even when politics is very hot, there is a lot that is still going on in terms
of other parts — the big machine of development is still roaring. Development
projects are going on because there is a framework where everybody knows their
role. Politicians will talk but the technocrats are busy doing their work. The youth have been missing out on jobs due to lack of technical
skills. Does the blueprint create a solution for it? Another
flagship project is TVET [Technical and Vocational Education Training]. That
is why there has been a big drive about those facilities. We are looking
to have two centres of excellence in all 47 counties, and an additional eight
regional centres of excellence in the former provinces, so that we have 102
centres for science, technology engineering and mathematics education and
related technical courses. But that can't
move without electricity, so you can now connect that with the electricity
investments going on in the country. This rural electrification that we are
doing is going to move a lot of things going forward. The
digitisation of education is another big flagship project. When you have
kids who are starting to use tablets in standard one, by the time they are
finishing basic education, they are going to be experts in computer technology. So we are
expecting a lot of new research and innovations to come out of the technology
that is in schools. And how have the ongoing projects helped solve unemployment? We are
implementing a lot of projects, and during implementation, we have an agreement
for passing of skills to the youth, and the people being trained are coming from
the TVETs. Roads is the
biggest project in the Vision 2030, even bigger than the standard gauge railway.  As the roads
projects like Lapsset are being done, that swathe of a large project has
created a lot of employment, directly and indirectly, in terms of support
services. For example,
the food people eat as they are doing the SGR and other projects, is supplied
by Kenyans. So that itself, when you look at the backward linkages, then you
will see there is another economy that is associated with that project. We also have a
massive electrification project that is going on countrywide, where we are
looking at 100 per cent of the country to be able to access electricity by
2020. And in the
course of that rural electrification, many jobs are being created, and they are
spread all over the country.