The High Court yesterday rejected Jubilee Party’s’ bid to join a case by civil society challenging the new controversial election laws. Justice Chacha Mwita said when Parliament passes a law, it becomes a matter of the national interest and ceases to be a political party issue. “It is my considered view that once legislation is passed, it becomes national and not party or partisan-oriented,” he said. Mwita ruled that Attorney General Githu Muigai is responsible for defending the government and its decisions and “Jubilee Party concerns will be taken care of”. Three cases have been filed challenging the election laws passed in October by MPs from Jubilee Party and affiliates. Katiba Institute and the African Centre for Open Governance want the court to determine several issues, among them whether it is proper for Parliament to pass laws specifically designed to regulate an event that the majority party is “unhappy with or is opposed to”. Former Ugenya MP David Ochieng wants the court to quash the laws, saying some provisions are glaringly unconstitutional, void and illegal, hence a nullity in law. Similarly, activist Okiya Omtatah filed a petition alleging the changes undermine electronic voting and make it impossible to eliminate corrupt practices during elections. President Uhuru Kenyatta received the Election Laws (Amendments) Bill 2017 from Parliament on October 13 for assent. He did not sign it within the 14 days stipulated in law or return it to Parliament for reconsideration. The bill automatically became law after the lapse of the 14 days and was gazetted last Thursday. The new law removed the requirement that the chairman of the IEBC be a lawyer qualified for appointment as an apex court judge. It also states a court cannot declare an election void for noncompliance with the law if it appears that the election was conducted in accordance with the laid-down principles. Jubilee sought to explain the circumstances that led to the amendments. Mwita also rejected a bid by Samuel Gakuru, a voter, who had applied to be enjoined. He allowed the National Assembly to come on board.