A presiding officer yesterday was charged with making a false entry at Kiiri polling station that resulted in a scuffle between Kandara MP Alice Wahome and the returning officer. John Kamande was charged with making a false entry in a record, violating the Elections Offences Act. The DPP wants Wahome arrested and investigated for harassing and roughing up the official.  The protracted scuffle was caught on video. Elections prosecutor Mutuma Mwereru said the accused person unlawfully entered on Form 34A the 440 votes for President Uhuru Kenyatta as having been won by Japheth Kaluyu. The court also heard the presiding officer had reasonable cause to believe the entry was wrong. The presiding officer appeared before senior resident magistrate Manuela Kinyanjui. He did not enter a plea as the case was deferred to the Murang’a law courts. The magistrate said his charge was an electoral offence and she had no jurisdiction to handle it. “The file will be transferred to Murang’a law courts, where there is an electoral court for plea taking and trial,” Kinyanjui said. The presiding officer was arrested on Monday after the IEBC lodged a complaint against him. He is being held at the Kandara police station. A video clip on social media showsthe MP shoving and manhandling returning officer Martin Malonza. She appeared to start the confrontation. The MP received both praise and condemnation from Jubilee and NASA supporters, who differed on her intentions. NASA supporters accused her of attempting to rig, while Jubilee supporters lauded her for ‘fighting’ for Uhuru’s votes. The MP says, however, she only wanted the returning officer to acknowledge the presiding officer had made a wrong entry and decide on the best course of action. She said Malonza was not cooperative, which resulted in the infamous fracas recorded on video. The IEBC wants Wahome prosecuted. The DPP has ordered the MP be investigated over accusations she assaulted the returning officer. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata has volunteered to defend the MP if she is arrested and prosecuted. On Monday, Kang’ata accused the DPP of being selective in administration of justice. He asked why the DPP has not issued a similar order against Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch for interrupting a press briefing by Jubilee leaders. It resulted in a scuffle caught on camera. The DPP, Kang’ata said, has also done nothing about NASA leaders who incited supporters to block the repeat presidential election in their areas.  “The DPP has also not done anything about the youths who barricaded roads and blocked people from accessing polling stations,” he said. Kang’ata said Wahome was right in defending Uhuru ’s votes, saying she was courageous.