Vihiga Queens mauled Wadadia 6-2 to be crowned 2017 women’s Premier League Zone ‘B’ champions with a match in hand. The match played at Mumias Complex saw Teresa Engesia score Queens’ opener barely seven minute into the match. She went on to score four other goals in the 13, 16, 44 and 79th minutes to ensure Vihiga claimed the league for the second year running. The star-studded Vihiga Queens enjoyed the services of Harambee Starlets’ duo Phoebe Owiti and Lilian Adera and Lilian Awour and Corazon Aquino, who play for the national Under-20 team. “I expected my team to perform well considering the kind of effort we have put in. We knew Wadadia are a tough team, especially when playing at home and we were cautious of that,” Vihiga Queens’ head coach Alex Alumira said. Queens went into break with a comfortable 4-0 lead with Wadadia showing less effort to trouble Kenyan international Lilian Awour, who was not tested in goal. In the second half, Ruth Chebungei pulled one back for Wadadia in the 57th minute after a back pass from Mercyline Oginga. Wadadia took advantage of the confusion in the Queens’ defence after their first goal and scored a second through substitute Merab Ochieng in the 60th minute. Engesia scored in the 75th minute to restore the lead before Harambee Starlets’ Under-20 captain Corazone Aquino scored her first goal for the team in the 79th minute, after moving from Soccer Queens. Alumira praised his charges for retaining the title and hoped they will beat Zone ‘A’ leaders, Thika Queens in the playoffs for the national championship, in what will be a repeat of last year’s final. “We have learned from our past mistakes and we are ready to face Thika Queens. We hope for a win this time round,” he said. He explained their shaky midfield in the weekend’s game had been occasioned by the absence of his six key players, four of whom are in school and two on other duties. Vihiga face Oserian in a formality match. The only way they can fail to become champions is by losing 12-0, a result coach Alumira has termed as impossible. They lead Zone ‘B’ with 30 points after 12 outings while Oserian are second with 27 points. Terry’s five goals put her tally to 12 in three matches, having netted a hat trick against Eldoret Falcons last weekend and four others against Palos.