The 2010 Constitution provides for every person to have access to the highest attainable standards of health. The health sector relies heavily on services offered by health workers. There is therefore need for equitable distribution of health human resources to realise this constitutional right. In this article, I look at the inequalities that existed before devolution in distribution of health workers and the changes in the post-devolution period. This is based on data received from the Ministry of Health and county governments. First a few background facts. One, health is the most expensive devolved function. On average, in the financial years 2014-15 to 2017-18, the health sector absorbs a quarter of counties’ total budgets. Two, on average, 60 per cent of this expenditure is towards compensation of employees. Three, the proportion of health budgets going to compensation of employees has been on average 60 per cent across the counties in the same period. Compensation to employees is bound to increase with the recent salary deal for nurses. There were great inequalities in the distribution of public sector health workers across the country in 2013, when the counties were established. Data from the Health ministry shows extreme cases like Samburu and Mandera where there was not a single dental staff person (dental officer/specialist or dental technologist). In these two counties, there was just one pharmacist. Mandera, Wajir, and Turkana were particularly marginalised. These three counties ranked among the bottom five counties with the least number of total health workers and the most residents per public health worker. Another way to think about access to health personnel is to divide health workers into high education and moderate education workers (eg, dental officers versus dental technologists). We assume that high education workers offer more advanced services. Samburu, Nyamira, Busia, Homa Bay and West Pokot had the highest proportion of moderate education health workers compared to high education health workers in 2013. There is evidence that the number and skill mix of health workers under the county governments is becoming more equitable. Analysis of data on the same categories of the workers in a sample of counties with poor access to health services in 2013 finds that the median growth of health workers between 2013-14 and 2016-17 was 35 per cent. While there are still gaps, Turkana reports an astounding growth of 232 per cent in the number of health workers. Kilifi 56 per cent, and West Pokot 15 per cent. The counties are making attempts to attract and retain health workers. Some strategies the counties have adopted include: Negotiating unique pay schemes for health workers such as Bomet’s January 2017 pay deal for doctors, clinical officers and nurses; providing residential facilities (West Pokot and Samburu) and facilitating transport to hard-to-reach areas (Samburu and Elgeyo Marakwet). A recurrent challenge for counties is to find ways to recruit and retain health workers while maintaining their budgets at 70 per cent recurrent and 30 per cent development, and in the face of health workers’ strikes pushing for higher wages. Strategies adopted by the counties are independent and competitive. This allows those with human resource deficits to attract more workers. However, lack of national coordination can also reinforce inequality. For example, retention of workers in difficult environments is a challenge, as they finally move to counties with better services. Many health workers have also opted to shift to the private sector. There is a continued need for national policies that ensure health workers move to areas where they are most needed. National policy can hinder devolution as well: National wage agreements for health workers make it difficult for the counties to adjust pay to their contexts. Equity Week provides a platform for policymakers, implementers, and common citizens to brainstorm solutions to inequalities in the health sector. One crucial element in the process of fighting inequalities is accessibility to reliable data. It remains difficult to deliberate on health policy due to lack of publicly available information at national and county level on health workers. Mokeira Nyagakah is a research analyst and trainer This op-ed is part of a series for Equity Week          