Kenyatta University has dismissed reports that people were killed during unrest that led to the institution's closure last Friday. The university's Senate closed the institution after students went on a rampage on Thursday night and torched the finance section of the administration block. More on this: Kenyatta University closed indefinitely after students riots Also read: JKUAT suspends activities, KU pushes exams after lecturers strike Reports later emerged that a female student was raped and killed by boda boda riders after the rioting students engaged them at the nearby MK market.  "No lives were lost during the events," the university said in a statement released by its public relations office on Wednesday. "We also wish to assure parents and guardians that students are safe and adequate security has always been provided within the grounds for all staff and students." KU further dismissed as false, allegations that its management manipulated the results of student elections, igniting the riots. It was said the decision to close the university was based on lecturers' strike and heightened agitation among students. "The university wishes to affirm that the recent student elections were free and fair. The management aspires to support a democratically elected student government and has consistently provided a conducive environment for students' elections to take place." The statement said the elections were held in line with new guidelines by the Education ministry "It has however been established that a section of ill-willed student candidates and their supporters incited a section of the student body and affected the overall normal running of the university." KU said a new date for academic activities to resume will be announced soon and that the December 15 graduation will take place as planned at the main campus. The university said it was engaging authorities on ending the lecturers' strike so learning can resume. Meanwhile, Daystar University has directed students to report back on November 28. The university was shut last Friday after students at its Athi River and Nairobi campuses protested higher fees and poor meals and facilities. Vice chancellor Timothy Wachira said classes for undergraduate and diploma students will resume at both campuses on the next day. "Exams for post-graduate students will begin as earlier scheduled on December 4." He said undergraduate and diploma students will write their tests from December 11. Read: Daystar University closes indefinitely after student protests Click here for more on politics and other subjects