A senior NASA
operative is said to be unhappy with a decision by some powerbrokers to attempt
to edge him out of opposition leader Raila
Odinga’s entourage to the Washington DC, USA. The operative, who usually
takes charge of Raila’s foreign voyages, has reportedly openly questioned the
rationale of a NASA think tank group to push him out of the trip. Apparently,
the operative was key in establishing the itinerary of the former Prime Minister
to the US, through his international networks. It is said that it took the
intervention of ‘Baba’ to reinstate him in the entourage that leaves for
America today.   **   THE atrocious
killing of livestock in Laikipia county has left many Kenyans asking if
Inspector General of Police Joseph
Boinnet is sincere in his defence of the ruthless incident by security
officers. Questions many people are seeking answers to from the police boss
include the number of illegal armed herders killed for allegedly using the
livestock as shields; and defending the onslaught on the pastoralists’ only
source of livelihood. Kenyans, particularly on social media, want Boinnet to
come clean on the matter because the police have remained mum on whether there
is any suspected herder killed. Kenyans have seen the hundreds of animal
carcasses scattered all over the place being devoured by scavengers. Some say
Boinnet’s argument resembles former Interior CS Joseph ole Lenku's Westgate explanation of billowing smoke as
resulting from the terrorists “burning mattresses”.   **   SOURCES whisper
to Corridors that some upmarket malls are hiding Kenya Cooperative Creameries
milk, which is suddenly in high demand, following the boycott of some milk
products by NASA. The opposition appears to have gotten wind of this action
against KCC products. NASA now plans to make it public that they will add to
the boycott list retailers that are involved in this collusion. One supermarket
that is now on the radar of the National Resistance Movement is situated in
Yaya Centre.   **   STILL on the
boycott, some Jubilee operatives are apparently burning the midnight oil on how
to retaliate on Raila Odinga's call
for economic boycott. The first-term legislators, our little bird heard, agreed
to identify companies associated with Raila's family and run an expansive
campaign against such products among the millions of Jubilee supporters so
the opposition chief also feels the pinch of the kind of boycott he has imposed
on Brookside Diaries, Bidco Industries and Safaricom. The MPs
are zeroing in on gas cylinders. The plan is to make the Odingas feel the pain and
bring down the family business.      