The hearing of the petition challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26 re-election lacked the flamboyance and oomph that characterised the August 8 case filed by NASA leader Raila Odinga. The six Supreme Court judges who heard the case are expected to deliver the judgment on Monday. Even though senior lawyers opposing the petitions appeared prepared, some of their colleagues representing the petitioners got entangled in controversy with Attorney General Githu Muigai, who suggested their representation was wanting. Unlike in the Raila petition, Uhuru’s legal team and those of the IEBC gave a coherent response to the issues raised. But there was absence of political supremacy battles witnessed in the Raila petition after the court locked out both NASA and Jubilee from the case. Lawyers were left to deal with issues on points of law, unlike in the earlier petition where issues regarding the voting processes, especially the mode of relaying results from the constituencies to the national tallying centre, formed the basis of the petition. Notably, in the last petition, lawyers appeared to be clueless when questions were posed by the bench. Unlike the previous challenge, it was also notable that the IEBC and chairman Wafula Chebukati responded specifically to issues raised by petitioners. The commission placed a total of 27 affidavits, some signed by returning officers who gave graphic and detailed accounts of the October 26 poll, in a bid to convince the court to uphold the election of Uhuru. Each of the affidavits dealt with specific issues raised by petitioners Njonjo Mue, Khelef Khalifa and ex- Kilome MP Harun Mwau. Mwau had filed a separate petition. The electoral body also replaced its lead counsel Paul Muite alongside PLO Lumumba and Issa Mansul, who participated in the Raila petition. IEBC retained lawyer Kamau Karori, but brought in Waweru Gatonye to lead the team. Also brought in was Kimani Muhoro and Somane Mahat. Each of the lawyers were tasked to respond to the issues raised by the petitioners depending on their areas of expertise.  In his response, Somane appeared to understand issues revolving around ICT even though the judges occassionally called for more clarifications. On their part, Uhuru lawyers Fred Ngatia, Ahmednassir Abdullahi, Tom Macharia, Kimani Kiragu, Ken Ogetto and Melissa Ng’ania restricted their responses to countering only specific allegations made against their client.  The move was different from the line they took during the Raila petition, where they concentrated on arguing issues that had not been raised, leaving an open field for their opponents to exploit. In this latest petition, Uhuru’s lawyers vehemently opposed prayers for a scrutiny of servers which was the basis of the nullification of the August 8 election.  The defence was so firm that the six-judge bench unanimously granted only two orders of access to the voter register and forms 34A, 34B and 34C. The judges rejected 18 other applications by the petitioners.  In the August petition, Raila‘s lawyers put up a spirited fight and convinced the court to get read-only access to IEBC servers , forms 34A, 34B and 34C alongside KIEMS Kits which, according to a report tabled in court, proved massive discrepancies.  The hearing session was only spiced up by women lawyers whose brilliance and eloquence emerged during the hearing of the male-dominated high profile petition. Mue and Khalifa hired Julie Soweto to led their legal team. Soweto showcased her eloquence in delivering and articulating issues on behalf of her client. The Kenya High School alumni runs a law firm – Soweto and Company Advocates – and has in several cases represented NASA in various disputes.  Another female lawyer was Ng’ania in Uhuru’s team. The youngest in the team, Ng’ania’s prowess was manifested as she opened the case for the Head of State. So eloquent and convincing were her arguments that she convinced the judges to strike out five damning internal memos that were allegedly exchanged between the IEBC commissioners.  The memos had been adversely mentioned by former commissioner Roselyn Akombe, who claimed there were wrangles and disunity in the commission that she believed it could not hold a credible election . Ng’ania’s arguments also convinced the court to strike out several paragraphs in affidavits and other documents filed out of time. IEBC’s Lucy Kambuni also shone as she expounded on points of law in regard to the petition. She boldly defended the IEBC. Eunice Lumala, who represented the petitioners, also had her day at the apex court.