Whether I voted for Uhuru Kenyatta or not, he will be President of Kenya after his swearing-in on Tuesday. Since there are many reasons why people get to power including luck, merit, fate and inheritance, it is reasonable to wish whoever gets there does his best for everybody. If Uhuru succeeds as President, all of us will benefit. But if he fails, all of us shall fail too in getting things that make life worth living. Because the manner in which Uhuru will govern this country for next five years will affect me whether I like or not — without invitation — let me tell him some things that could make him a better President. If he listens, I will be happy. If he ignores, I will be disappointed but will have done what my conscience commands me to do. First, two African proverbs should be Uhuru’s guiding star: “When the leader limps, the flock does not reach the pastures.” And, “A leader who does not listen to advice is a failed leader.” Second, Kings 1 Chapter 12, a story is told of how King Rehoboam took over power from his father, King Solomon. Thereafter, people who were critical of his father’s rule, led by an opposition leader Jeroboam went to see the young king with a prayer of lessening the burden of his father’s rule. After asking them to see him in three days, he asked for the advice of the elders who told him to grant his people’s prayer. Thereafter, Rehoboam sought the advice of young men who counselled him to double his father’s tyranny. When a delegation of the people returned in three days and Rehoboam said he would treat them more ruthlessly than his father, 10 tribes seceded and only two tribes — Judah and Benjamin — remained under him. As Uhuru is inaugurated on Thuesday this coming week, there are things he could learn from King Rehoboam. One, while it is good for a leader to give his or her people audience, it is better to grant their prayer wherever he can. Refusing to lessen people’s burden out of arrogance, malice and whimsical or dictatorial tendencies can have dire consequences. Two, a President should always keep in mind that when people ask for democracy and good treatment, instead of dictatorship, it is wisdom to give them what they ask for, rather than terror and oppression. People will rebel when they ask for liberty and they are given tyranny. Three, a President should treat his people well, not because people have asked to be treated so but because it is the business of leadership to treat them so. When a President insists on treating people with terror and oppression, that’s a recipe for secession. Four, as no President is all wise and never needs advice, when he or she seeks advice, s/he must get it from people with best intentions, enough experience and education, from which to draw wisdom and advice. Five, when a President needs advice and has to choose between getting it from either youths or elders, it is better to give preference to the advise of the latter but supplement it with that of the former. Six, whoever he is, we ask the President to do well, not just for the people’s own benefit but for his own legacy as well. In the final term of a President, not to think of legacy will not only sabotage his presidency but also his service to the people.  The best governance comes from leaders who are worried about legacy, an ambition that propels them to work harder for the people. Tragically, there are people, well-placed in the system, government and hierarchy of the ruling party who through dictatorship, oppression and disregard of the people’s interests, are just like the young advisers of King Heroboam. Should he use dictatorship, he will certainly destroy his legacy as did President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. The only thing that can secure a President’s legacy is democratic rule.  Finally, President Uhuru must be advised to treat Kenyans with complete equality, not because beneficiaries of government jobs and services are followers of Jubilee Party but because people pay taxes. To deny people jobs and services because they don’t belong to Jubilee or they did not vote for Uhuru is a travesty of justice.          