In the past few days the activities of the police service in Western Kenya have come into sharp focus. The reckless abandon with which police officers have invaded houses to harm and maim innocent Kenyans is astounding. The use of force has become the in-thing. The assault and beatings meted out on innocent Kenyans walking in the streets are reminiscent of the days of yore when policemen were a law unto themselves. The service is being used to instil fear and despondency in a manner never contemplated by the Constitution. The use of force to effect arrest or quell riots is limited under the law. Section 61 of the National Police Service Act 2011 empowers officers to use firearms. Such powers, however, are limited to preventing commission of offences. They are limited so the police would arrest suspects. Section 1 Part A of the Sixth Schedule of the Act sets out the rules and procedures on use of force and firearms by police officers. The schedule is clear that a police officer shall always attempt to use non-violent means first. Lethal force may only be employed when non-violent means are ineffective or without any promise of achieving the intended result. The law states that the force used shall be proportional to the objective to be achieved, the seriousness of the offence, and the resistance of the person against whom it is used. Firearms or lethal force may only be used when less extreme means are inadequate. Also, for saving or protecting the life of the officer or other person, in self-defence or in defence of another person against imminent threat to life or serious injury. The activities of the police and evidences from major hospitals in Nyanza and Western reveal that a number of people were shot while running or in their houses, in total contravention of the law. An officer intending to use a firearm shall identify themselves and give clear warning of their intention to use the firearm, with sufficient time for the warning to be observed. The exception is where doing so would place the officer or other person at risk of death or serious harm; or If it would be clearly inappropriate or pointless. The police officer shall make every effort to avoid the use of firearms, especially against children. Police officers, however, have not just shot and killed children, but have been seen hurling teargas canisters into schools. The brutalisation of our children is not healthy for the country because it not only radicalises them, but teaches them that abuse of law and human life is acceptable. What the police are engaged in is extrajudicial killing. This is planned execution committed by governments or government-backed agents with a total lack of regard for the law and/or judicial procedure as protected in the law. Kenya is party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights. International law prohibits the “arbitrary deprivation of life”, and obligates governments to “respect and ensure” the right to life. Kenya must learn from civilised democracies on the use of guns and deployment of the police to quell unrest. In a free and democratic society, there must be a balance between democracy, freedom and openness, and a police state. None of us wants to live in a police state. In the United Kingdom the Metropolitan Police, which covers most of London, was founded in 1829 on the principle of “policing by consent” rather than by force. They believe that giving everyday police officers guns sends the wrong message to communities and they have developed a culture and less use of firearms. Statistics from the police reveal that in the year up to March 2016, police in England and Wales only fired seven bullets. Our nation is more polarised than ever before, and there will be major repercussions on the reckless use of force and guns. Over the past year, we have seen political discourse turn into a political war. We have watched crises unfold within our communities and watched battles ignited between civilians and the police. Lately, it feels as though brother is pitted against brother, and that tribalism, sectarianism and hatred have infiltrated our society and our lives. All of these are symptoms of the real problem – which is that we have lost respect for the dignity of every human life.   Past president of the East Africa Law Society and an advocate  