The Communication Authority of Kenya has announced plans to revamp the regulatory framework targeting the e-commerce industry. This follows increased illegal provision and use of postal and courier services by some of the e-commerce platforms hence lowering the credibility and trust levels of such services. “The authority would like to inform the general public that it is in the process of revamping the regulatory framework to provide for the sustainable growth of trust in the e-commerce environment in Kenya,” the authority’s director general Francis Wangusi said in a public notice. According to the World Trade Organisation, the increased e-commerce portals have seen postal corporations explore the e-commerce opportunity by providing parcels, payment, hosting and direct marketing services, connecting their solutions to merchants’ websites or developing their own shopping capabilities to offer merchants' products to the Internet using postal services. While at this, Wangusi has adviced members of the public to procure postal and courier services only from duly-licensed and compliant entities that are in possession of valid annual compliance certificates as provided for under the Kenya Information and communications Act of 1998. Unlike last year, where the authority revoked licences of 38 postal and courier firms for failing to adhere to set quality of standards passed in February 2016, they did not list some of the service providers blacklisted before the revamped e-commerce regulations take effect. However, the regulator cautioned entities and persons providing postal and couriers service without a valid license. “It is illegal to do so and such service providers risk heavy penalties and long jail terms or convictions,” Wangusi said. In addition, they risk fines of not more than Sh200,000. According to the regulators latest annual report of 2015-2016, there are currently 623 posta services providers and 1637 courier outlets. In the recent past, Kenya has seen increased adaptation of e-commerce portals such as Jumia Kenya, founded in 2012 to Masoko, unveiled last month by mobile service provider Safaricom. Other platforms currently in the country include Kilimall, Olx, Mimi, electrohub and Cheki among others. Kenyans have also adapted social media as a top platform to sell and buy goods. The increase in such platforms is attributed to the availability of internet services and access to financial services as recorded in the 2015 Communication Authority white paper on the adoption of e-commerce in Kenya. According to the authority, the e-commerce market demands fast response in adjusting services to meet customers’ needs hence a particular concern for postal operators. The operators often work under complex and multiple instances of organizational decisions, restrictions to legal issues that impact hiring, and resource allocation hence leading to slow responses.