Kenya improved 33 places globally in terms of ease of paying taxes, from position 125 in 2015 to 92 last year as captured in the Paying Taxes 2018 Report released yesterday. It was unveiled in 190 countries by World Bank and Pricewaterhousecoppers. The report shows that a medium sized company in Kenya pay total tax rate of 37.4 per cent, 9.4 per cent less tax compared to the sub Saharan Africa average of 46.8 per cent. The global total tax and contribution averaged 40.5 per cent. “Electronic tax filing and payments were the most common tax reform undertaken by countries worldwide during the past year. The focus has now shifted from reducing tax rates for companies to embracing technology and relieving their compliance burden,’’ report noted. Paying taxes is one of the indicators of the World Bank’s Doing Business report that was released late last month and assesses the time required for a medium sized firm to prepare, file, and pay its taxes. Other indicators includes number of taxes paid in a year and post tax filing index. In Kenya, the iTax system launched by the Kenya Revenue Authority in mid 2015 was hailed for reducing tax compiling time from 196 hours in 2015 to 186 which is better than both global and continental average of 240 and 248 hours respectively. The report, however, shows that medium sized companies in Kenya paid 26 taxes in a year more than the global average of 24 taxes per year, an aspect that is eroding the country’s ease of doing business. ‘’Even though the number of taxes paid by medium sized companies in Kenya has dropped from 31 to 26, the number is still high and is bad for the country’s ease of doing business,’’ said Moses Kijubi, senior tax specialist at the World Bank. Kenya also performed below other regional rivals like Rwanda and Mauritius in terms of post-filing index which measures two processes: a VAT refund and a correction made to a corporate income tax return. These measures are combined to give a post-filing index score from 0-100, with zero being the least efficient and 100 the most efficient. Rwanda and Mauritius scored 76 and 78 per cent respectively while Kenya managed 63 per cent. Tax refund remains to be a contagious issue between KRA and the Kenya Association of Manufacturers despite the National Treasury disbursing up to Sh15 billion to KRA for the settlement of the tax refunds back log spanning two financial years early this year. In August, KRA Commissioner General John Njiraini said the iTax system has increased efficiency in processing tax refunds.  