President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have said they will not allow the country to plunge into anarchy. While addressing mourners a the burial of Wahome Gakuru, Uhuru said they will continue to work towards making the country better. He mourned Gakuru as a visionary who had a lot planned for Nyeri county.  "We are together during this time and we shall continue working together because we believe that his vision will live beyond today," Uhuru said. The President said he will work with the county government to implement the plans the late Governor had for Nyeri. "We have worked with Gakuru for many years and I would like to assure the people of Nyeri that all the projects he had planned to initiate will be completed as we will work with the new governor and his team,"  he added. Uhuru said a marathon Gakuru was planning to launch early next year will be named after him. "We will complete the stadium in Mathira and we will then name the marathon in his honour because that was his vision for the people of Nyeri," Uhuru said. Ruto asked county leaders to be committed to service delivery for the people and avoid unnecessary politicking. "As we send off the great leader we had, we celebrate many other Kenyans who have committed to the rule of law and democratic processes we have."he stated. The DP further castigated Opposition leaders for the demos on Friday where five people were killed. Read: Wahome Gakuru burial: Jubilee leaders slam NASA over violent protests "Kenya belongs to God and its too important to us. We will not let it go in the way of chaos, division and bloodshed because under Uhuru we have a future as the nation," he said. Ruto said the government will put an end to any violence planned to ensure the lives of Kenyans and their property is protected. "We will not allow this country to go down the path of anarchy, tribalism, satanism, there is no way will succumb to blackmail, we believe in the Constitution and the wishes of a few people will never come to pass, Kenya will never be a country of chaos." Ruto said. Ruto and Uhuru were among thousands who attended Gakuru's burial ceremony at Kagumo High School in Nyeri. The late Governor will be laid to rest at his home. Also read: Emotions run high as Wahome Gakuru's sons eulogize their father