Whenever the word IDPs (Internally Displaced Persons) is mentioned, it brings to mind the 600,000 people who fled their homes during the 2007-08 post-election violence, to seek refuge in camps that remained in place for years. Welcome to Lamu county, where a different crop of IDPs exists: terror IDPs. They were driven from their homes by recurrent terror attacks by al Shabaab since 2014. The terrorists have also killed hundreds of people, including security officers and civilians, and destroyed schools, hospitals and other public institutions. The first terror IDP camp in Lamu was formed in June 2014, shortly after the worst-ever al Shabaab terror attack. More than 90 people were killed in Mpeketoni and surrounding areas, Kaisari, Kibaoni and Witu. The camp was called the Mavuno-Poromoko IDP camp. It housed more than 3,000 people. They fled from Jima, Kaisari, Majembeni, Mavuno, Nyatha and Poromoko villages following the terror attacks. The camp lasted almost a year and was broken in 2015, after assurances of security by the security team.  Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo addresses the press SERIES OF ATTACKS Former camp chairman Charles Musungu said the one year was hell on earth for all of them, and that he wouldn’t wish it on his worst enemies. “When you are an IDP, you are basically homeless, penniless and all that. Your life is turned upside down, you become an alien in your own country. You have to walk with an eye over your shoulder always. There isn’t enough food, not to talk of water. We suffered from all manner of illnesses and no one seemed to care,” he said. Musungu said food was always a hustle. The IDPs would scramble whenever the Red Cross lorry brought supplies from the government and well-wishers. Musungu said despite assurances they were safe at the camp, people would still worry about being attacked by al Shabaab at night. On many occasions, the men at the camp would stay up and keep vigil as the women and children slept. “At that time, it becomes hard for you to trust a police officer who tells you that you are safe, because you are now an IDP. It was a stressful life, where you are always waiting for the next morning with bated breath,” he said. The former chairman is glad that security was restored and they were finally able to go back to their homes. He said most former IDPs at first found it hard to adjust, but with optimism, many have resumed their lives and forgotten they were once IDPs. “No one should be an IDP in their own home. It is not right. It’s very inhumane, the kind of conditions one is exposed to as an IDP. You literally have to beg for everything. Your kids can’t go to school, you can’t do business. You just live counting days and wonder when liberation will come. But we are okay now,” Musungu said.  Katsaka Kairu IDP camp spokesperson Simon Mgumba  A week after the Mpeketoni massacre, five people were killed in Witu. Yet another IDP camp sprung up at the Witu AIC church in Witu town. It hosted more than 2,000 IDPs, mostly from Kakathe, Katsaka Kairu, Maleli, Nyongoro and Pandanguo villages. The camp lasted several months and was closed down in mid 2015, after security was restored. On July 5, 2014, 13 people were killed in Bobo and Roka Kibiboni villages in Hindi division, Lamu West. Homes in those villages were torched by al Shabaab militants, who by this time seemed bent on expanding their killing spree. As a result, an IDP camp was born at the Hindi GK Prison compound, with people coming in from Bobo, Ndeu, Roka Kibiboni, Saba Saba and Salama Farm villages. The camp had over 2,000 people. It lasted several months and was later closed in 2015, when the IDPs felt safe enough to go back home.  Residents of Kakathe and Maleli villages flee after al Shabaab butchered four people in Maleli STILL IN CAMPS There are currently two IDP camps in Lamu. One is in Katsaka Kairu, which is the largest and houses over 2,000 people. The one is at the Witu AIC church that has close to 500 terror IDPs. The recent crop of terror IDPs came into being this year, shortly after al Shabaab attacks on July 4 at the Pandanguo police post that left four officers dead. Five days later, on July 9, about 15 al Shabaab militants struck once again in Poromoko village and killed nine people. The killings of the four police officers and nine civilians in Pandanguo and Poromoko prompted residents of the two villages to flee to the Katsaka Kairu and Witu AIC IDP camps, where they were joined by others from Bora Moyo, Jima, Kakathe, Maleli, Nyongoro and Taa villages. Many residents were scared of what al Shabaab would do to them if they could kill armed officers. People felt the police could not protect them and as such opted for IDP camps. Not all terror IDPs went to the camps voluntarily, though. In July this year, the government ordered residents of villages bordering the Boni forest to move out of their homes and into the IDP camps to allow security forces to deal with al Shabaab, who were believed to be hiding in the forest. This particular lot of IDPs felt it wasn’t fair that they were displaced, when the security officers could still carry out their operations with them around. Katsaka Kairu IDP camp spokesperson Simon Mgumba said life as an IDP is frustrating. He said it’s worse because the government and other concerned parties seem to have turned a blind eye to their existence. He said initially, the government promised adequate supply of food and other aid during their stay at the camp, but after several months, the supplies became inconsistent and stopped altogether. “The food they give us here is barely enough for one person, yet we are expected to use it as a whole family. There is no medical care; we only get pain killers. There is no water, and we only get water supply from government boozers once in a blue moon,” Mgumba said. He said there are no toilets at the camp and that in most cases, people just wait for nightfall to relieve themselves anywhere around the camp, since they have nowhere else to go. “On many occasions, the faecal matter has found its way into our food and water, and people, especially children, become seriously sick. We don’t just die by the grace of God,” Mgumba said. He said, when the IDPs fled their homes, many didn’t expect their stay at the camps would be that long. People thought it would just be a matter of days before their homes were safe again for them to return to. However, they have been at the camp since early July and counting. He said many of their homes, which were left unattended, have since been burgled and their farms raided and denuded by wild animals.   DEFYING CALLS TO LEAVE Last week, county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo announced that security had been restored and that the IDPs are now free to go back to their homes. The announcement wasn’t taken well by the IDPs, who are now accusing the government of cruelty for wanting them to back to ‘death traps’ and with nothing to start their lives over with.  Ruth Saanyu, an IDP at the Katsaka Kairu camp Ruth Saanyu, an IDP at the camp and mother of five, said they don’t believe the government’s safety assurance. She said all the IDPs have unanimously agreed not to leave the camp if their conditions are not met. “First of all, they can’t just tell us it is safe and that we should go back yet we can’t feel what they are saying. As IDPs, we feel the situation is still not right for us to go back home,” she said. “Plus we demand to be compensated for the time wasted here and resources lost back home. Many of us had crops on our farms that have been eaten by wild animals. Our homes have been robbed clean. We don’t have a thing. Many of us fled with just the clothes we had on and our children. So you can imagine how much we have lost. We won’t leave unless we are compensated.” Saanyu said despite the hardships of living as an IDP, they are willing to extend their stay until their demands are met. Another IDP, Justin Kadenge, said their children have missed school for the entire period they have been at the camps. Kadenge said his son, who just sat his KCPE at the Mokowe Arid Zone centre, isn’t sure is he will be able to achieve his dreams. “My son and many others didn’t get the chance to go to school or revise since July. He would try to revise on his own but he needed school, which wasn’t available since we were IDPs. He did his exams and once he was through, he told me he isn’t sure he would pass and join Starehe Boys. I feel for him,” he said. Kadenge said many IDPs are annoyed and angry at the government for wanting them to go back home empty-handed, knowing very well they had nothing back there. “We need their support to start off back home. They know we have nothing to go back to. If they can’t do that for us then we are prepared to be IDPs forever,” he said.  IDPs at the Witu AIC church compound The county commissioner has however stated categorically that no IDP will be given a dime, and that instead, the best compensation they have been given is the assurance that their homes are now safe for them to go back to. Kitiyo said it is unrealistic for the IDPs to want compensation over such an issue, considering it wasn’t the government’s fault that they became IDPs in the first place. “We won’t pay anyone anything for being an IDP. It’s not a situation anyone wanted but it happened. We have taken care of them at the camps but now we have told them to go back home and develop themselves, yet they don’t want to. We can’t force them but they should know that the government support will be cut soon, and then I don’t know what they will do if they insist on not leaving,” he said. Amid the stalemate, many hope the terror IDP cycle will eventually stop and people will live peacefully in their homes once again.