 A new survey has lifted the lid on what could be the impact of Kenya’s deepening political crisis, with a supermajority saying the country is headed in the wrong direction. A new poll by research firm Ipsos shows 80 per cent of Kenyans believe the country is on the wrong path. The grim picture painted is the worst since 2013, when President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) came into power. At the height of severe food shortage in May, 71 per cent of Kenyans said the country was headed in the wrong direction, according to the pollster. “In terms of the trend over time, the overall negative [wrong direction] figure reached an all-time high (80 per cent), higher than either in May during the drought and food shortages (71 per cent) or in November, 2015 during the prolonged national teachers’ strike (67 per cent),” Ipsos said yesterday. Some 2,006 respondents were interviewed between November 14 and 22, days before the October 26 repeat presidential election, which was marred by violence and low voter turnout. Among Jubilee supporters, 72 per cent say the country is headed in the wrong way, while 92 per cent of NASA supporters feel the same way. Only nine per cent of Kenyans believe the country is headed in the right direction. Thirty six per cent cited the cost of living as their reason for saying the country is headed in the wrong direction, while 34 per cent named leadership. Six per cent cited ethnic tension, while 12 per cent pointed to election-related issues. Over the past few weeks, Kenya has witnessed heightened ethnic animosity, violence, growing secession calls and political bickering. Uhuru’s election has been challenged in the Supreme Court with the opposition vowing they will not allow his win to stand. NASA has called for a products boycott and has already named three companies – Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside Dairies – whose goods and services its supporters should avoid. The poll also shows that over the past three months, 72 per cent of Kenyans report that their general economic condition has worsened. Sixty nine per cent are Jubilee supporters while 75 per cent are NASA supporters.