Bishop Cornelius Korir will be
buried inside the Sacred Heart Cathedral Church, fellow bishops said on Sunday. The decision was made after the bishops resolved to bury Korir according to the requirements of church tradition. The tradition demands that a serving bishop is buried inside the cathedral when he dies. Korir will be buried with a small chapel inside the cathedral. The chapel is located near his official seat. It has a statue of Maria. “A bishop who dies while in office
is buried within the cathedral because his position is very important to the
church where he was the head or shepherded,” Father William Kosgey told journalists at the cathedral yesterday. Kosgey said engineers had already began preparing the grave at the site. Korir will be buried on Saturday. His funeral service will be held at the Eldoret Sports Club.  Nyeri archbishop Anthony Muheria and Homa Bay bishop Phillip Anyollo were involved in identifying the grave site. The two have been camping in Eldoret since Korir died last week. Bishop Korir’s family was also
involved in deciding where their father would be laid to rest. The government has announced it will give Korir a state funeral in honour of his peace work.  Deputy President William Ruto said the state will pay all funeral costs. He spoke at the cathedral on Sunday during a special Mass in honour of Korir.  “Korir was a nationalist who worked
for peace throughout his life. He always worked for the good of this country," Ruto said. On Friday, Korir's body will be moved from the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret and taken to the Sacred Heart Cathedral for public viewing and night vigil. It will then be taken to the sports club for the funeral service on Saturday  President Kenyatta, Ruto, opposition leaders Raila Odinga and Musali Mudavadi are among local and
international guests expected to attend the funeral.
 Police have called for
reinforcement to help control crowds at the funeral where more than 100,000 mourners are expected.  