The state intends to punish anyone hiring an unlicensed electrician to connect power in their homes and business premises. A Bill introduced in the National Assembly this week warns that a consumer who allows an unlicensed electrician to install electricity commits an offence. “The consumer, shall on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh50,000 or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding three months or both,” reads the Bill tabled by Majority leader Aden Duale. The proposed Bill, which is in its first reading, poses a challenge for Kenyans in identifying validly licensed electricians from quacks. The Energy Bill, 2017 intends to impose a fine of Sh1 million or a jail term of six months to the Energy Regulatory Commission licensing officers who permits quacks to perform such duties in the country. The unlicensed electricians caught installing electricity will be staring at a possible imprisonment of six months or Sh100,000 fine if the Bill sails through. “An unauthorised electrical worker or contractor commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh100,000 or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or both,” the Bill reads. Where electrical installation does not meet the conditions outlined, the commission shall decline to connect power supply. The supply might also be disconnected if the electrical installations is already done in the premises. According to the Bill, any person who carries out the generation, exportation, importation transmission, distribution and retail supply of electricity without a licence commits an offence. “A person who carries out any electricity undertaking without a licence commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than Sh1 million, or to a term of imprisonment not less than one year or both...” it stated. A person who owns or operates an unlicensed facility that produces energy using coal or contravenes the Law in relation to construction of such a facility is liable to one year jail-term or a fine of Sh1 million. The Bill also seeks to include the council of governors to the Commission’s board of directors. “The board of directors shall include one County Executive member responsible for energy and petroleum or his representative nominated by the Council of Governors,” the Bill read.              