Never has the political scene in Kenya been this ugly. Never have we been this divided. Never have we needed the shrewdness of a nation-loving politician this much. The elections have been conducted and now we’re here, still as clueless as ever. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga are holding on to their claims of legitimacy. Funny enough, both regard their claim as true and lawful. Raila publicly announced his withdrawal from the October 26 repeat election, disputing the competence of the referee, the Independent Election and Boundaries Commission. The veteran politician said his irreducible minimums had not been met and, therefore, the election would not be free, fair and credible. This led to an election boycott that led to a low voter turnout come the Election Day and, ultimately, an atmosphere of uncertainty as to what is next for the country. The worst thing about all this is that, as other countries are going on with their schedules, we, for the better part of this year, have been quite busy politicking. Sadly, it doesn’t get better. The opposition leader, a day to the election, announced the beginning of a non-violent National Resistance Movement, set to eradicate the pestilence that is the Jubilee government. He declared they would relentlessly push for a fresh, revamped, never-seen-before credible election that will liberate the suffering Kenyan. The President, on the other side, proposes that we move on since the election was a political event that should simply come and go: That we ought not to dwell on it so much since we must focus on national development. He dismisses the NASA leader, calling him an anti-progressive perennial loser hell-bent on using whatever unscrupulous means to attain power. Now, my question is, what is it that we really need right now? True there aremany answers to that, but which is the most suitable, if there is one? On one side, we have NASA, who feel the JP administration has always been anything but inclusive. They opine that the national cake is for a select few and they cannot take any more of that. They are tired. On the other hand, Jubilee believes that the government is efficiently operational and that there is no foul play whatsoever, with regard to elections, fiscal responsibilities, etc. They believe that the current state of affairs is enough to leave everyone sufficiently satisfied. So, therefore, what we can perceive here is an air of antagonism and adversity. We’ve obviously not seen the last of political conflict. The just-concluded election is nothing but one among the many precursors of whatever it is that will actualise in the end.   It’s a fact that both leaders command a considerable portion of the national electorate; who commands a larger portion is out of the question. Curious thing about this is, what will each candidate do with his followers? Their say is unquestionably crucial and pertinent to wherever it is our country is headed. I think we can all agree on the fact that Raila knows that this is the one moment in which he has to give it his all — no more than ever. Time and again, he’s been battling technically the same enemy in vain, and time is an aspectthat is running out. Many expected Raila to call it quits after the bungled August polls, but he has sworn to go the whole hog. In that sense, therefore, we all should sit tight and fasten our safety belts, because the political rollercoaster hasn’t given us its best yet. Raila and his NASA counterparts have just set out on a mission to rid the IEBC of the impurities that denyit credibility, and subsequently gift the people with legitimate leadership born of transparency and accountability. What’s going to happen in the coming days, or even months, is anyone’s guess. The Kenyan political field is a dynamic one, and we should thus be ready for anything. It is a fact, however, that the President did the country no favour at all, when he failed to acknowledge Kenya’s state of divisiveness in his victory speech in the repeat election. What everyone, regardless of political affiliation, believes is the fact that a section of the country is unsure of the state’s maturity. What we can be confident of is the fact what Raila says, he means it. That’s the silver lining in this dark cloud of divisiveness. The normative Kenyan culture has grown to overpower tribal chiefs, coercing them to speak unity when appealing for votes. So what’s going to happen now? I believe it’s going to be the same old game of demands (NASA) and stubbornness (Jubilee), probably more altercations with law enforcement. Who knows? The problem at the moment will be the non-recognition of Uhuru’s legitimacy as President by a considerable number of Raila voters, and the former Prime Minister is sure set to use this to his advantage. What I believe in, though, is the concept of compromise. We can’t all get absolute power because none of us can comfortably retain that power when the rest crave what we’re holding. I know both camps are always quick to dismiss it, but a Nusu Mkate government seems to be the most reasonable outcome, because no side can ever enjoy power when the other is out in the cold. There’ll always be conflict.