Climbing this second-largest mountain in Africa is an item on various people’s bucketlists, and yet few have actually ventured out to summit it. Most Kenyans hardly head out to explore their own immediate surroundings after all, a matter one would chalk up to familiarity and proximity. Here are the basics to know before packing for your climb: the mountain has three peaks; Batian at 5,199m and Nelion at 5,188m, which are best left for advanced climbers.  There is also the more accessible Lenana, which stands at 4,985m. Anyone who can walk for 6-8 hours a day can actually trek to Lenana, although given that the ascent is fairly comfortable, you run the risk of going too fast and developing mountain sickness.  If you plan to climb to the summit, be sure to hire a cook, registered guide and porter to not only regulate your pace but also share their wealth of knowledge on the environment.  There are five main routes to the peak. To avoid crowds, trek the Burget route, which is challenging and muddy and will take you through a rainfores,t complete with an overnight stay at a freedom campsite.  Being relatively accessible, Sirimon is the more popular route and you should, therefore, expect to bump into numerous other hikers. You do not have to go up and down the same route. For variety in the view, you could, for instance, combine a Burget ascent with a Sirimon descent.  Mt Kenya can be trekked throughout the year, although as a beginner, be warned that the rainy season will result in mud and loose soil, which will make for quite the gruesome climb. The average time you can spend hiking to the summit is about five days.  Animals to look out for during the Mt Kenya hike include the Black Rhino, Colobus monkey, the elusive forest antelopes like the bongo, and over 250 species of rare birds.   Location: Borders Laikipia county to the north, Kirinyaga county to the east, Murang’a county to the south and Nyandarua county to the west Access: It lies approximately 150km north of Nairobi Contacts: +254 ( 20 ) 2379407 +254 ( 20 ) 2379408     Star Rating: 4/5  