As floods wreak havoc
in Meru county, displacing 100 families in Tigania West and East constituencies,
more than 100,000 excavators in River Mutonga quarry are risking their lives to
earn a living. In eight years, more than 17 workers have died in the slippery,
sometimes crumbling, terrain, where a hard day’s work only gets them Sh500. For many, the quarry in
Igoji, South Imenti constituency, is their only source of livelihood. Skipping
a day means they will not make ends meet and hence struggle to bring food to
their table. Most of those who
spoke to the Star are married and have families that depend on them as breadwinners.
Government orders to vacate the quarries when it rains fly in the face of their
desperation. Igoji East
MCA John Kireria said excavators have formed committees to look into worker
safety. “These committees warn excavators on areas they should consider as
risky,” he said. Imenti
South police boss John Cheruiyot said workers should keep off quarries during
heavy rains as they can collapse. He said the number of people dying in such
incidents has escalated due to negligence. “Four people died in Kabauni
quarry in October 2015. We do not want to see more loss of life. Let workers
know that their life is more important than the money,” Cheruiyot said. Mutonga
quarry suffered the same fate two months later, on December 8, 2015. A man
was killed and two injured when the quarry collapsed.  Nema and geologist
officials are yet to conclude an environmental assessment study to guide the
landowners. The authority has previously advised people to seek alternative jobs,
such as casual labour in farms and business premises, until the quarry is
cleared. In 2013, the authority
said four quarries in the constituency were operating illegally because no
environmental assessment study had been done before commencing work. Nema has
been urging the excavators to ensure the quarry is legalised before stone
harvesting starts in order to ensure the security of the workers and
environmental conservation.    DANGLING ON CLIFFS A visit to the site revealed
workers climbing on hanging cliffs to cut building stones. It begs the
question why would someone risk his life dangling over such a cliff in the rainy
season. The stone
diggers vow to continue excavating beneath the boulders, oblivious of the
danger they are exposing themselves to inside the over 100m manmade pits. “The quarry
is our hope and office. Those who are against the activity, where do they
expect us to earn our living? Do they want us to steal?” asked worker Kevin
Mwiti. Many of those interviewed,
including leaders, opposed a ban on mining, saying it is tantamount to turning
them into beggars and perennial criminals because they have no other source of
income. The excavation process
begins by digging a trench with a mattock and later removing the stone
chippings using hands and fingers. Metallic
mallets and thick chisels are used to split stone blocks from the parent rock
before cutting them into suitable sizes. The blocks are then arranged to await
the buyer, who hires the same people to load them into the vehicles. The quarry,
which covers 8km along the bank of river Mutonga, is owned by over 7,000
residents and employs about 100,000 people from the larger Meru, including the
excavators, lorry loaders, drivers, hoteliers, shop keepers and other workers
needed during the stone harvesting process. It offers a
source of income for the families, and many have secured loans and other bills
that are outstanding to pay for food, school fees, accommodation, hospital,
clothing and other basic needs. In most
cases, the stone chippings and other unwanted materials are cleared by the
miners and dumped at the nearby river, leading to pollution and other health
hazards to the residents downstream.  SAFETY MEASURES According to Nema,
there 42 quarries in Meru and 39 have complied with their regulations and are
licensed. Nema county environment
director John Wafula said most quarries in Mutonga are not formally licensed.
He said those working in the quarries should avoid undercutting and tunneling. “This is because
probability of such quarries collapsing is very high,” Wafula said. He said quarry
cliffs should also be fenced 3m from the edge of the cliff and be at least 1.5m
high for safety. “Quarries
should also have warning signs of appropriate font to warn people. Entry and
exit should also be regulated. People working here should also have protective
gear like helmets, nose masks, gloves and reflector jackets,” Wafula said. He said
each quarry should have a register of people working there and have a person
trained in safety. “In case of
an emergency, the register can help to account for the people,” Wafula said. He said they
give licences to quarries 100m away from either a shopping centre a school or
hospital and 50m away from any house and 40m away from a river or wetland. Wafula said
they are going to revoke licences of companies polluting the environment. He said
quarries have timelines in which they are deemed not fit to excavate again. The
environmental officer said each quarry should provide a restoration plan on
what they plan to do with the quarry after it has expired.  “That land must be rehabilitated and brough
back to either agriculture, recreation, afforestation, aqua culture or water
reservoir,” he said. He said a
lifespan can depend on the capacity used to excavate. Wafula said stone diggers should be on the lookout for the telltale
signs of impending danger, like big cracks that appear when the hanging cliffs
are overwhelmed by the weight. He said poor
infrastructure makes it hard for residents of the neighboring Meru and Tharaka
Nithi counties to trade or engage in other activities effectively. Excavators
lament that the Sh500 daily earning is not enough to meet their needs due to
the escalating cost of living. They urged the government to ensure the
stones have fixed prices to avoid being cheated by brokers. They also called
for the quarry road to be repaired using the radicals left at the sites.  With the invention of
stone-cutting machines, several companies are adopting them as they are
faster than human beings. This has been a source of conflict. On November 14, the
excavators blocked Mutonga bridge on the Meru-Nairobi highway in protest. They said the
companies have been dumping sand remnants from their site to the highway. “This
is a great risk as the sand makes vehicles plying the road often slide and have
accidents near the bridge,” a quarry worker said.  South Imenti deputy
county commissioner Samson Irungu intervened to have the road opened. He urged
the companies to ensure they do not pollute the environment and damage the
road.  MCA Kireria said the
companies should give back to the community by ensuring
the roads around the quarry are passable.