The top student from Bungoma County in this year’s
Kenya certificate of primary education Tatiana Wabwire wants to be an architect
in future.
 Tatiana  a
pupil at Bungoma DEB primary in Kanduyi constituency Bungoma town managed to
get 441 marks out of 500. The best student overall in the country manged to
get 455 marks in the results that were announced on Tuesday by education CS
Fred Matiangi. Tatiana was followed  by Loreen 
Baraza a student from Sambu central primary in Webuye east who also
scored 441 marks. Tabitha Okwiri the school’s head teacher said that
the school which was doing the KCPE for the second time had performed
extraordinarily well shocking both teachers and parents. She said that the second student Melvin Mukhwana got
428 while 12 other students got over four hundred and the last one had 332. Speaking to the press at the school on Tuesday the
14 years old girl from Mandizini estate in Bungoma town said that she would
like to join Kenya High and pursue her secondary education. She said that she was hardworking and prayerful which
managed to help her pass the exams. She urged her fellow student to keep on being hard working
and obeying parents and teachers which is the key to success in life. Catherine Wabwire the mother said that she has raised
the child together with her sister as a single parent. The woman who sells groceries at the schools gate
said that she has always encouraged her child to do well in her studies so that
she may assist him in the near future.  She appealed to 
the county government of Bungoma through governor Wycliffe
Wangamati  and equity through wings to
fly to help her daughter accomplish her dreams by aiding me in getting her fees ‘I have tried my best to ensure my girl does not
lack anything and wherever i have lacked money I have been asking the school
management that has been assisting me greatly,’ she said. Irene Mutoka, Wabwires class teacher said that she
was a very hardworking student who never arrived in school late. She has been following teacher’s advice by arriving and
going to school early and leaving late. She was picked last year at the county head student
due to her commitment in studies. She said that the girl comes from a very humble
family whose mother has been trying to do odd jobs to make ends meet and pay
fee for her child. She said that as teachers they are also calling upon
well wisher to assist her pursue her studies Tobias Khisa the head teacher at Bungoma DEB said
that he had 431 candidates and all of them have performed well. Khisa said that he is happy with the schools performance.
 ‘You can see her crying it’s because of happiness and
she knew she would be the best student in the country and has felt like she did
not accomplish her mission,’ he said. Khisa said that the girl has been helped greatly by
the school and appealed to all well wishers to come and assist her pursue her
studies. ‘We liked this girl because despite the fact that her
mother has been doing odd jobs to make end meets she has always been proud of
her mother who has made her rich where she is single handedly,’ she said. He said that if the girl will not get sponsors the
school will assist her continue with her studies since she has broken the
schools previous record.  Joshua Onyego county director of education said that there were no cases of cheating and school cancelling results and any of the schools across then county. He said that out of the over 45,000 students who did the exams the girls performed well than boys.            