Citing lack of resources, nine divers have pulled out of the mission to recover three bodies from the helicopter crash in Lake Nakuru on October 21. The nine from the Bomet county government withdrew on Friday, saying they could no longer afford to pay for their accommodation and other expenses. They were among 40 divers, geologists and other experts involved in the search. Grief-stricken families camp on the shore, awaiting news. National Disaster Operation Centre officer Jonathan Kertich, who heads the rescue mission, said the divers could no pay their expenses. “Most divers volunteered their resources to help in the recovery of bodies and they are now financially constrained,” Kertich said. He said the divers would rejoin the search if the bodies are not found soon. The search will continue until the wreckage and bodies are retrieved. About half the shallow lake has been searched. The search is hampered by clouds of silt, metalic substances, tree trunks, hippos and crocodiles. The crash killed all five on board. The bodies of pilot Apollo Malowa and passenger Anthony Kipyegon were recovered three days later. They have been buried in their ancestral homes in Siaya and Baringo counties, respectively. Bodies of three other passengers —John Mapozi, Sam Gitau and Veronicah Muthoni — are yet to be retrieved. The wreckage has not been located Six geologists and investigators joined the search team last week with sophisticated equipment, including sonar and metal detectors. They have been spending more than 12 hours every day in the search. Sonar equipment from the Kenya Navy and two magnetometers from the Geothermal Development Company are being used. The bodies could be trapped inside. On October 22, divers recovered earphones, a pilot file, first aid kit, a section of the helicopter door and part of a seat. The debris was spotted on the shores of the lake by a GPS from a Kenya Police helicopter. Rift Valley Regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo said recovery mission will continue until bodies and debris are found. “There are many metallic substances and tree trunks slowing the search. We have combed half the lake and we shall not give up until the mission is achieved,” diver Moses Owaga said. The 50-year-old is the head of the International Rescue Divers sponsored by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. Others divers are from the Kenya Navy, Kenya Wildlife Service, Department of Fisheries, Naivasha Divers Association, private firms and volunteers.