Barclays Africa has up to three years to complete total separation from Barclays PLC and discard the Barclays brand. Speaking to the Star in South Africa, Barclays Africa Group CEO Maria Ramos said the African subsidiary is working with Barclays PLC to successfully separate processes, policies and systems in a way that will not cause any unnecessary disruption. ‘’The separation is exciting for us because it presents a number of opportunities. Our destiny is now in our hands and we are excited about the work we are undertaking to shape a future-fit business,’’ said Ramos. She disclosed that Barclays PLC has contributed $920 million to the African group to facilitate the separation and help replace and upgrade technology and other systems to better serve customers in Africa. Although Barclays PLC announced its intention to reduce its stake in Africa in March 2016 and sold 12.2 per cent of its 62.3 per cent stake in May the same year, the actual separation commenced in February this year when the mother firm signed the separation agreement with the African group. In June this year, Barclays PLC sold a further 33.7 per cent of its shares to investors in an oversubscribed share sale, leaving a minority stake of 23.4 per cent in Barclays Africa. It is expected to sell a further seven per cent to South Africa Public Investment Corporation to lower its shareholding to below 20 per cent. Even though separation plans are in top gear, Barclays Africa is not certain about customers’ reaction to rebranding and total discard of the Barclays brand in the continent.  Barclays Africa Group is undertaking extensive research into its brand future, incorporating views from across the continent and from top brand advisers. A dedicated team has had more than 130,000 conversations with employees, customers, clients and other stakeholders in all the markets in which Barclays Africa Group operates,’’ said deputy CEO Peter Matlare. The lender experienced customer apathy last year when the mother firm announced plans to exit the continent and it is perhaps the reason why Barclays Africa is approaching rebranding with much caution.  ‘’The name change will happen once internal processes are completed and only after regulatory approval has been obtained. We are yet to settle on a particular name but we can’t rule out ABSA which is more visible in South Africa,’’ said Matlare. Barclays Africa Group has a 100 per cent stake in ABSA Financial Services Limited in South Africa, which has a larger foot-print in the continent. It has 736 branches, 8,937 ATMs, 9.3 million customers and 31,234 employees. Barclays Africa has 68.5 per cent stake in Barclays Kenya which is the second largest market in the continent with 98 branches, 216 ATMs, 519,230 customers and more than 2, 600 employees.  The lender also operates in Botswana, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Uganda and Ghana where Barclays Africa has 100 per cent ownership. In Tanzania, where Barclays Africa has a 55 per cent stake, the firm is divided into two subsidiaries: the National Bank of Commerce and Barclays Bank of Tanzania (BBT).  