Kabras Rally Team is upbeat as they field a strong squad for the East Africa Classic Rally starting this Thursday in Whitesands Hotel, Mombasa.
Carl Tundo, the multiple former Kenya champion, leads the Kabras Team that also includes Onkar Rai, Tejvior Rai, Frank Tundo and Baldev Chager.
Carl will drive his Triumph TR7, the Top Fry-sponsored by Menengai Oil Refineries for the second event running.
Tundo will be navigated by multiple former Kenya and Safari navigator champion Tim Jessop. The crew is seeded second behind defending champion Stig Blomqvist, who is seeded number one in his Porsche 911.
Menengai Oil-sponsored Onkar Singh Rai is seeded 10th. He will team up with Gareth Dawe, who was also his navigator in the Kenyan National Rally Championship (KNRC). Others are—Frank Tundo/Gavin Laurence (Triumph TR7), Baldev Chager/Ravi Soni (Porsche 911), Onkar Rai/Gareth Dawe (Porsche 911) and Kabras Tej Rai/Zahir Shah (Porshe 911). The entry list of 36 cars includes 14 Kenyan crewswith the rest drawn from Europe, Argentina, Tanzania and South Africa.
Ramesh Vishram, who is the Classic Car champions in the 2017 KNRC has also entered his fourth Classic event in a Ford Escort Mark2. He will be navigated by Riyaz Ismail while Raaji Singh Bharij will team up with Rajay Sehmi in ninth. He will drive a locally build Porsche 911. The crew is sponsored by the Intra Africa Insurance Company. Amboseli Lodge will host the first night of the action after the rally kicks off from Mombasa for the 10-action.
Shell Vivo Energy have agreed to make arrangements for the supply of V. Power fuel at the following points for the crews: Amboseli, Taita Hills Lodge, Diani, Shanzu & Diani Shanzu Teachers College, Mombasa, Namanga, Kimana Town on the Emali – Oloitokitok road. Shell will also avail diesel, oils and lubricants during the competition.
This year’s Classic Rally includes several small but significant tweaks to the rally regulations, which have encouraged many new European competitors to ship their cars to Africa for the nine-day event. Power steering is now permitted on the grounds of comfort and safety, and the cut-off age for cars has been stretched to 1985. The total distance will be 3257 km of which 1665kms will be competitive. The balance of 1592 kms will be transport.