Machakos MCAs have rejected the names of all the five CEC nominees submitted to the August House by Governor Alfred Mutua. The Vetting Committee on Wednesday said the nominees are not qualified for the respective positions for which they were to be considered. This was captured in their report tabled for debate by Majority Leader
Francis Ngunga on Wednesday. The five are Kimeu Mbithi (Public Service and
ICT), Faith Wathome (Education), Naomi Mutie (Water), Ruth Mutua (Agriculture), and Ali Maalim (Health). In its general findings of suitability of all the
five nominees, the committee said the applicants' academic
qualifications and experience did not match the portfolios to
which they had been nominated. The committee expressed doubts on the capacity of
the nominees to ensure proper and prudent utilisation of county finances. They said the nominations had been contested by residents in sworn
affidavits citing incompetence, corruption and abuse of office. "The committee was not provided with information on
procedure used to arrive at the nominees including their shortlisting as provided
for under Section 8(a) of the Public Appointments (County Assemblies Approval)
Act, 2017," Ngunga said. According to the report, Wathome, Mutua and Mutie
were found to have been proposed to head portfolios which they do not possess
requisite experience. In its percentage rating, the committee awarded 23.5
marks to Wathome, 30.3 to Mutua, 53 to Maalim, 30.8 to Mutie  and 32.3 to Kimeu. This means the lot fell below 70 per cent
pass mark index required for them to be approved for the slots. "Some of
the nominees would perform better in other departments," Ngunga said. He said the governor should present a new list
of 10 CEC nominees to the assembly for vetting by the committee urgently. "One way of assisting our county is to ensure
impartiality becomes practice by this house." "Jokes aside, the governor should present to the committee 10
nominees for vetting," said Ngunga. The county government should be formed and if it is not
formed immediately, then we will seek its dissolution, he added. In response, the governor's office said the county assembly committee acted in bad faith saying the process was infiltrated by malice and partisanship. "The committee has been hell bent to stop the executive from executing development and providing services to wananchi," governor press service boss Mutinda Mwanzia said in a statement. He said the MCAs need to be reminded that "they were not elected to engage in empty and mindless politics but to serve the best interest of the people." "It is unfortunate that the appointment committee rejected a nominee on the basis of unsubstantiated allegations," the executive said. Wiper party enjoys a majority in the county assembly, a situation which is likely to work against Mutua who was elected under the Maendeleo Chap Chap party. In a related development, 12 MCAs distanced themselves from the appointing committee that rejected the five nominees saying they were playing politics. Read: Why election outcome in Machakos should worry Dr Alfred Mutua