The political temperature is on the rise even after the repeat polls and the polity is cheering their side of the political divide. Secession talk is also gaining ground. It is high time we, as the citizens of this country, ask the tough question: How did we get here? The Preamble of the Constitution offers a qualitative guide to this question. I set to interrogate three major virtues from the Preamble of our Constitution. Honouring our history; Proud of our diversity; and the aspiration of all Kenyans for social justice, rule of law and democracy. First, as Kenyans, we need to understand our historical background. Pre- and post-Independence Kenya provides a rich history that can enable us to understand why we are in this stalemate. It is of general knowledge that the Kenyan political realm is composed of two rivaling pacts. There is pro-social justice, democracy and the rule of law on the one hand and the pro - the status quo on the other hand. This history is not without distortion. Ideologies have been lost as politicians jump from one political outfit to another as long as their interests are guaranteed. For example, during the struggle for multiparty democracy, some pro-status quo politicians and businessmen appeared to support the pro-democracy pact. Their main agenda, as it came to appear later on, was to bring an end to Daniel Moi’s presidency. It was not until 2002 that their real intention came out clear as some of them claimed that since Moi was gone, Kenya never needed a new Constitution. Despite their hidden agenda, Kenyans still got a new Constitution. Second, Kenyans must proudly embrace their diversity. This diversity is manifested in cultural, ethnic, religious and regional backgrounds. Bearing in mind this diversity, our leadership ought to be inventive, accommodative and inclusive. The form and system of governance must not be based on tribal exclusion but on constructive and concessional inclusion of all. It is only then that the people shall embrace and be proud of their society. With the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, every Kenyan dreamt of an all-inclusive society. A society that would move away from the previous leadership that promoted tribal hegemony.  This has not been the case. Successive regimes since then have continued to play the tribal card, as the institutions continue to be gagged by tribal lords. The polity has accepted and normalised the derogation of an important virtue within our constitutional democracy. It is because of this that Kenya is no longer a dream to the present generation. And third, is the desire and aspiration for democracy, social justice and the rule of law among Kenyans. Since the colonial era, successive governments have promoted a socially flawed society. Certain regions have been neglected while others have been preferred. This has been met with resistance in equal or extensive measures. Seven years after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, it was the hope of many Kenyans that the new constitutional order would offer us a different future. This has not been the case. Our failure to adapt to the new regime has driven us back to the old dark days. The demons of secession are still screaming because of our persistence in fighting the constitution. Social justice and the rule of law are the parents of democracy. At these trying moments, Kenyans must rise up and awaken their inherent desire to live in a just and civilised society. The demons of tribalism, primitive accumulation of wealth and power and tribal hegemony must be slain. Failure to do this now, the future of a united Kenya will soon be questioned. We must not wait to see such times.     Jumah is an advocate and a legal research consultant   Democracy, human rights & governance   jumahdaniel@gmail.com                    