Rebecca Ekale
doesn’t believe anything good can come from the black gold bonanza that will
bring untold riches to arid Turkana, the poorest county in Kenya. “I have no
interest in oil,” the mother of six told IRIN outside her brick-and-thatch home
in the village of Lomokamar. Like many
pastoralist herders, Ekale has been hit hard by a fierce and prolonged drought:
the bones of 16 goats lie on the ground nearby. But life here
is hard at the best of times. Around 90 per cent of the county’s 1.3 million
inhabitants live below the poverty line, and some 80 per cent have never
attended school. Chronic marginalisation has left Turkana with a dearth of
basic services, and there are few opportunities in the private sector for
making a living outside the precarious realm of pastoralism. Yet
unimaginable wealth lies beneath the county’s soil: an estimated 750 million
recoverable barrels of oil. In early 2021, construction is set to begin on an
820km, Sh210 billion pipeline from Turkana to the coast. Within a few
years, this is expected to start generating hundreds of billions of shillings
annually for the state, with at least five per cent (there is an almighty row
over the figure) earmarked for local communities and 20 per cent going to the
county government — an entity set up in a landmark devolutionary constitution
adopted in 2010. Opinion is
divided between those who think the oil boom will provide Turkana with an
economic lifeline and those who fear production will exacerbate existing
conflicts driven by competition over scarce pasture and water resources.   ‘NOTHING
BUT A CURSE’ Ekale already
seems to have made her mind up. “It has
brought us nothing but a curse,” she said, as a pungent smell wafted through
her homestead. Ekale said the
stench came from a tailings dump just two kilometres away. “It’s killing
our goats and I have not seen the national or county government coming to our
rescue,” she complained. Other
residents told IRIN that when it rains, chemicals enter water sources and make
their animals sick. Tullow Oil,
the British firm that discovered Turkana’s oil in 2012, operates (in some blocs
in partnership with Africa Oil) across 48,000 square kilometres of Kenya leased
from various county governments. Exploration
and appraisal is taking place in several dozen sites located within
community-owned land in Turkana. One of these
sites lies 14km from Ekale’s home. Tullow denies releasing toxic waste, but
told IRIN it temporarily stores mud residue from drill sites in a manner
approved by the National Environmental Management Authority, and that it
conducts environmental and social impact assessments before starting any new
projects.   RESTRICTED
MOBILITY Aside from the
disputed issue of waste, a common complaint about the oil installations is that
they get in the way. “Our animals
have no access to pasture,” explained Ekale. To keep their
millions of animals healthy, Turkana’s pastoralists have to be able to herd
them across long distances to reach water and, since they are picky eaters, the
right kind and sufficient quantity of grass. Oil is just one of many barriers
to this “strategic mobility”. Sites where
oil is already being extracted — in the South Lokichar Basin — have been fenced
off (Tullow didn’t specify exactly how much land is involved). Livestock
herder Thomas Nyapid, who also runs a peace building and sustainability
programme in Lodwar, the county capital, said Tullow has failed to fully take
into account local dynamics. For instance, he said, South Lokichar Basin has
long been used as a dry-season grazing reserve. Ahead of the
oil operations, “no one took an interest in telling us what was happening, or
understanding how we used the land and how it would affect us in the end,” he
told IRIN. Francis Opiyo,
a Nairobi-based specialist in resilience, climate change, and disaster risk
reduction, explained how critical dry-season grazing areas are. “Once they are
fenced off for oil exploration, the pastoral communities are left to access the
wet-season grazing areas, which only generate pasture during the rainy season,
or have to move to [areas] often marred with conflict,” he said. It is
impossible to assess the scale of this problem, as the national government has
not mapped out Turkana’s grazing areas in detail, but seasonal usage is well
understood by local communities: their livelihoods depend on it. It isn’t clear
to what extent the Turkana pipeline will disrupt migration routes and access to
pasture, nor how legal provisions for “full and just compensation” for the
compulsory purchase by the government of adjacent land will be met, especially
given that it is community-owned. Chris Adjele,
director of pastoral economy in the county government, told IRIN the
compensation issue will have to be resolved before work on the pipeline,
scheduled to begin next year, is allowed to start. However, the county would be
unable to pay anyone until it is receiving its share of the revenue, he added.   PROFIT
AND LOSS  Turkana has
already received many of the benefits that often come with oil wells: jobs,
business opportunities and infrastructure — all of which serve as cushions
against the economic effects of climate change and partly fill the gaping
development holes left by successive central governments. Tullow, which
says it takes pride in its corporate responsibilities, has spent around Sh400
million on social projects related to water, health, education, and the
environment in Kenya. Ekale’s
village, for example, receives weekly supplies of water from the firm. But
there is good reason. Tullow
acknowledges it takes three to four barrels of water to extract one barrel of
oil, a rate of consumption that, once production starts in earnest, is likely
to aggravate local shortages in a drought-prone area. In its
defence, the company said: “this is the subject of study” and that options will
be assessed to ensure “all impacts at socioeconomic level are well understood
and mitigated before exploitation”. In an email to
IRIN, Edward Mungatana, Tullow’s general manager for external affairs,
described the company’s provision of tanks and bowsers to local communities as
a “short-term intervention”, adding that “government support is necessary to
provide longer-term solutions”.   CONFLICT
RISKS A 2015 paper
on Turkana published by scientific journal Earth Systems Dynamics warns that
“unmet community expectations for water, employment and development pose a
significant risk for violent conflict between local communities and the
operating oil company”. Such violence
has already occurred on numerous occasions. In June, for
example, Tullow’s attempts to truck oil to the port of Mombasa were suspended
after staff were prevented from accessing drilling sites, and after workers
from a separate company were attacked while upgrading a road leading to oil
fields. Exports are
due to resume in December, as long as a controversial petroleum bill is passed
into law. This has been held up by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s insistence that
the revenue share for local communities is reduced from 10 to five per cent. Violence,
predominantly in the form of cattle raids, has long been common in Kenya’s
drylands. But Augustine Lokwang, who advises the county government on security
issues, explained how it has evolved in recent years to become controlled by
cartels involved in the growing national market for meat. “It’s highly
likely that the banditry would evolve again to become oil-driven. A shady
financier [of violence] would mainly be motivated by the need to control oil
revenues and sites, and by local politics,” he told IRIN. If the oil
sector drives up land prices in Turkana, as some fear, this would also increase
the potential for conflict. “The stage is
already set,” Lokwang added. “If [pastoralists] feel they are losers from the
exploration and will only carry the brunt of the aftermath of the project,
while oil revenue benefits go to other people, it’s a basis for conflict.” The onus here
lies on the authorities, rather than Tullow. Opiyo, the
Nairobi-based specialist, recommended that the county government devise an
integrated land management system that demarcates clear and sustainable grazing
routes to avoid conflict.  “If we have a
secured, well-planned structure for the pastoralists… we can manage any
violence and conflict that can arise from competition over resources as they
become scarce as droughts persist,” he said.   A
FORK IN THE ROAD Asked whether
oil would be a blessing or a curse for the people of Turkana, Lokwang told
IRIN: “The trajectory is not clear yet. We have opportunities to influence the
best scenario.” The authors of
a respected 2016 paper on the impact of the oil sector in Turkana reached
similar conclusions. They said it could boost employment and development in the
region, but stressed it was vital to give local communities a voice in key
decisions and manage their expectations.  Minimising the
loss of access to land and reducing any pollution of water and soil through
robust environmental legislation will also be critical. How all these
issues are managed, the paper concludes, will determine whether oil riches lead
to a “healthy and peaceful Turkana” or towards “a vicious cycle of violent
conflict, poverty and underdevelopment”, or even, as the blunter language of
the summarising graphic puts it, to “civil war”.