NASA leader Raila Odinga plans to shift the fight against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s “illegitimate” re-election to the United Nations. Close allies of the opposition leader have disclosed that NASA was working on a petition to challenge Uhuru’s legitimacy at the New York-based global agency. The formal appeal will be written to UN secretary general Antonio Guterres and Moussa Faki’s Addis Ababa-based African Union. The Star has established that a team working on details was finalising the petition and was due to brief Raila. Raila is said to have met South Africa’s Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and South African politician Lindiwe Nonceba Sisulu during his visit to Zanzibar. Details of their meetings are scant. Those said to be in the team crafting the petition include head of NASA technical team David Ndii, former Foreign Affairs Assistant Minister Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), former EALA MP Abubakar Zein, Suna East’s Junet Mohamed and Kisumu Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o. “We will be briefing the Prime Minister and we hope the letters will be dispatched,” a former diplomat working with the team told the Star. The former envoy said Raila would be asking for the UN’s formal intervention to guide the formation of a six-month interim government and facilitate credible polls next year. “We will be telling the UN that no election was held on October 26. It was a charade. The UN must, therefore, be briefed on the repercussions of Uhuru’s swearing-in without being validly elected as President of the Republic of Kenya,” Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma said. “I hope the United Nations and the AU will look at the issue objectively regarding what an unpopular President means for the country.” This would be Raila’s second attempt to have the UN intervene in Kenya’s crisis after an initial appeal three months ago was turned down. After the botched August 8 presidential poll, the UN declined Raila’s request to review the election results, which he claimed were rigged in favour of Uhuru. Guterres had urged political leaders to take election-related disputes to “the relevant constitutionally mandated institutions”. Raila accused the Western powers of bias during his tour of Washington and London. He made a passionate appeal to the international community to help end Kenya’s political crisis.