Some 1,050 students from Kwale have benefited from a scholarship programme funded by Base Titanium. But the kitty’s future is tied to the company’s operations, which are ticking down to an end after more than two decades. Also at stake once works cease at Maumba mine in Kinondo ward end are the company’s external training. This includes attachment and internship, apprenticeship, high school training, community skills development and an 18-month programme for university graduates on transfer of knowledge and experience. The mining company, whose 21-year contract ends in 2022, is exploring for more extractives in adjacent areas, and is hopeful of discovering viable deposits that would prolong its stay. However, its attempts to conduct exploration in the nearby Magaoni area were faced with what its officials referred to as “politically instigated challenges”. Base community relations manager Pius Kassim said the timing was not right. “We approached the local community just before the general election. But we are hopeful and if we discover viable mineral deposits, we will renew our licence and continue mining for several more years,” he said. Base is confident of an agreement with the local community now that the general elections have been concluded. An extension of its mining licence would keep the scholarship and other community benefit programmes going. The Base secondary school scholarship programme has so far benefited over 600 young people from poor backgrounds and given scholarships to 400 students in tertiary institutions. Other education-related activities that the company runs include visits to secondary schools to encourage students to take science subjects with mining in mind.   FALSE HOPES? Training residents on mining came under question from the Kenya Land Alliance. KLA chief executive Lumumba Odenda asked if Base is not building false hopes, as mining is finite. In response, Base environment manager Collins Forbes said: “Yes, mining is finite and our operations here could come to a close by 2022, but we are looking to extend to adjacent areas and further afield. “Again, even if one is not employed by Base, becoming a mining expert opens many opportunities. For example, we had to source skilled mining workers from Zambia and other African countries, where they have had a lot of experience in mining. Trained and experienced Kenyans can in future work in other parts of the country or outside Kenya.” The company also takes in form four leavers and gives them life skills, including electrical welding, and then arranges for them to sit government trade tests in readiness for employment or self-employment. The company has an apprentice programme in collaboration with external institutions, leading to a certificate after two years or diploma in three years. Base also targets the community in training that imparts skills to help them generate incomes. Odenda said although those relocated to pave way for titanium mining were compensated, they should benefit more from the mining through education opportunities and in other areas. “Mining is lucrative and the company and the government are benefiting through profits and revenues. How about the locals; how are they benefiting? How have they been affected environmentally and socially?” Odenda called for a meaningful platform to discuss how communities benefit and what would happen once the operations at Maumba came to a halt. “Does the local leadership realise that within five years there could be no Base Titanium in Kwale if things don’t change? Are they thinking about what could be done with the extensive infrastructure the company has put in place or the high voltage power line in place?” In response, Forbes said discussions about closure and what would happen to the structures have started. “We are also rehabilitating mined areas. The scholarship programme has also been pegged to the life of the mine,” he said.  