Four members of the Bungoma Public Service Board say they fear for their lives after receiving death threats. The four, including chairman Gideon Sirai and secretary Elizabeth Wanyonyi, have reported to Bungoma police station and recorded statements. They blame Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s allies. Some members have gone into hiding and have switched off their phones. They say ‘strange calls and messages’ threaten them and their families. Police are investigating. Sirai on Friday said the threats are related to the list of possible chief officers, who had been successfully recruited by the board. The list left out some of Wangamati’s allies, he said. “This angered them and they openly attacked the board,” Sirai said. “For a week now, the members have been living in great fear. Some have even opted not to come to work. Some became terribly sick after they received the threats,” he said. Some calls are from unknown numbers registered in Uganda, he added.  “We know you well. We are warning you that we shall come for your head, your husband’s head and all your family members,” Sirai quoted a message to one board member as saying. There has been a simmering battle pitting the board — which took office under former Governor Kenneth Lusaka — against the assembly speaker and the Wangamati team. On November 4, Wangamati accused the board of incompetence. He warned it against taking bribes and said he was aware some people had paid as much as Sh50,000 to members of the board to get the chief officer jobs. Wangamati said the PSB must be aboveboard in its work. He has declined to comment further. The board has accused him of meddling. Wangamati wants special considerations, instead of allowing the board to do its work, Sirai said. The six-member board has been asking for academic papers from Wangamati’s nominees, Sirai said. Some did not have the required qualifications and had to be left out, he said. “The position of a director is not a job you give to a class seven dropout. With a huge salary, that’s a job that calls for enough experience and adequate credentials,” he said. A source familiar with the goings-on told the Star Wangamati has been pressuring the board to employ ‘his people’, but it has declined. Sirai said the board will do its work as required by law and will not give in to demands for favours. Bungoma county commissioner Joshua Chepchieng said those behind the threats will be brought to book. “My position is clear. Anyone threatening another person is a criminal,” he said. “We want police to move with speed, arrest these people and take them to court so they may serve as an example to others with such motives.” The board also faces a petition by activist Moses Lukoye, who accused it of impunity and soliciting money from the public through proxies. The board yesterday appeared before the assembly’s Public Administration committee. The petitioner wants all board members dismissed.