Jubilee performed poorly in Mombasa because Tourism CS Najib Balala and former Senator Hassan Omar were inept, Annania Mwaboza has said. “Their clout was overhyped for nothing,” he told the Star yesterday. “They want to ride on Suleiman Shahbal, Karisa Nzai and their sweat.” Uhuru got 78,000 votes in the repeat poll, down from 99,190 in the annulled August 8 election. Mwaboza, who was Shahbal’s running mate, said Balala and Omar did not mobilise voters and bungled the Jubilee plan to ensure a high turnout. President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta should have received at least 150,000 votes, he added. Balala and Omar have said the performance was commendable, “given the circumstances”. Mombasa is a NASA stronghold. The alliance urged members to boycott the repeat election, saying its it was not free and fair, “as its outcome was predetermined”. Mwaboza said he was in charge of campaigns and mobilisation in Kisauni and Nyali. “Shahbal was given Likoni and Mvita and Nzai was tasked to lead Jomvu and Changamwe,” he said during an interview with the Star. Mwaboza said he delivered 32,000 votes, Shahbal 25,000 and Nzai 21,000. “Where are Sarai (Omar) and Balala’s votes? Balala should tell us why we were minus 21,000 votes out of the 99,000 we got in August,” he said. He said Omar and Balala did not hit the ground running. Shahbal lost the governor race and Nzai the Jomvu MP contest in the General Election. Omar ditched Wiper for Jubilee — a party whose leadership he once described as “inept and incompetent”. He came third after Governor Hassan Joho and Shahbal. On Saturday, Balala and Omar said repeat elections the world over register low voter turnouts. But Mwaboza dismissed the two and said they are not serious about helping Uhuru win over the region. “We mistakenly thought they would top up the August numbers to about 150,000. We didn’t see them. They said they would oversee the entire county, they didn’t,” he said. “Shahbal and I went out of our way to fight the ‘no-election’ calls.” Shahbal set up a county tallying centre, as Mwaboza moved around to get voters to take part in the exercise. The persistent arguing among JP Mombasa leaders is linked to the politics of 2022. Mwaboza, Omar and Shahbal will be running for governor, probably on the JP ticket. To Mwaboza, Omar is a spoiler. After Omar was unveiled by Jubilee on October 8, Mwaboza called him a hypocrite, clutching “flimsy reeds” to save his political career.