Move aside, Thika Superhighway. A new road is about to
revolutionise transport in Nairobi.
For years, getting to town from Eastlands, which houses 60 per cent of the
city’s dwellers and its most active workforce, has been like passing through
the eye of a needle. Some 2.6 million people have been
squeezing through a single carriageway
on Outer Ring Road. Though designed to carry 800 vehicles per hour per lane, it
instead carried 1,040 vehicles. The hours wasted in traffic and increased cost of transport
translated to Sh50 million losses in 2014. But now the 13km road has been expanded to a dual carriageway, in
what will be the first major government project to decongest Nairobi. Residents can hardly wait for its completion in December. Traders
are making a beeline for the area. Supermarkets, malls, godowns, industries and
production parks are popping up. The project is
“a blessing to Nairobi residents”, according to the Kenya Urban Roads
Authority. It expects more businesses to blossom in Eastlands and movement of
goods to be hastened. “It
is after one year that the real transformational effects of the road can be
realised,” said John Cheboi, chief corporate communications officer of Kura. The road upgrade has
been a long time coming. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched it in January 2015.
Kura awarded the Sh8 billion project to Chinese contractor SinoHydro Tianjin
Engineering Company.  The project
completion date was revised from July 31 to December 31 “due to challenges in
relocation of services, among other project constraints”, Infrastructure PS
John Mosonik said in August during an inspection. For now, it
has been opened to the public but will be commissioned in the next few weeks.   DUST-INDUCED LOSSES When the project
began, businesses along the Outer Ring Road were counting losses. The
construction work leaves behind a heavy cloud of dust, which has been keeping
clients away. “I have been
selling women’s handbags since 2013 outside Naivas Supermarket, but immediately
the tractors came, I was displaced and until now, I have not found a permanent
place for my business,” said Mary Chebet, a trader along Outer Ring Road. Cheboi said
the issue of traders and hawkers is a major urban problem. “In the
project, Kura has tried to mitigate by assisting over 400 youths obtain life
skills and, therefore, gain employment or open better businesses,” he said.  “This was a
joint programme between Kura and African Development Bank (AfDB) at the cost of
Sh33million. It targeted hawkers along Outer Ring Road.” Cheboi said
under the same programme, Kura has set aside Sh800 million for the construction
of fresh produce market along Kangundo Road, which has already began and is
expected to be completed in early next year. Meanwhile, Kura
is working to ensure adjacent roads and other linking roads are networked and
improved to take more traffic and reduce congestion. “As soon as
the road is fully operational, a study on what is possible and what can be
improved will be undertaken to ensure smooth flow of traffic. This may include
disallowing side activities that may slow traffic,” Cheboi said.   MATATU MADNESS Traffic jam
has long been a crisis along Outer Ring Road. Matatus and buses have been
making it worse as they made arbitrary U-turns and even created their own bus
stops for passengers. Though
accidents along the road are rare, this led to traffic build-up as each PSV
vehicle tried creating its own routes to avoid the traffic jam. Traffic police
have been placed at junctions where traffic tends to build up, especially
during peak hours. Traffic police
have often struggled to control traffic, both PSVs and motorists, because they
used the wrong lanes to reach their destinations. Mike Wekesa, a
matatu driver of the 39-route, said: “Before, we really didn’t understand the
sense of using the right lanes because for us, time is money. But now,
following the correct route even makes it easier for us to alight and board
passengers.”  Haron Owaro, a
matatu driver in the 33-Embakasi route, added: “We are eagerly waiting for the
completion of the road. So far at least traffic jam has reduced, and as a
driver I found the project very effective.”  Owaro said
drivers had previously lost a lot of money being stuck in traffic jams because
it took longer to make rounds back and forth to town. He said the
major challenge now is that between Taj Mall and Donholm area, there is no bus
stop established yet. Cheboi said
four bus stops will be set up by the time the road is completed. “These may not
suffice but considering the unavailability of the corridor, they will serve.”    AMENITIES AND
COVERAGE Upon
completion, the road will contain 11 footbridges, loops and ramps for
interchanges, service roads, grade-separated intersections, additional lengths
at junctions and non-motorized traffic lanes (walkways and cycle tracks). The road
covers Mlango Kubwa, Kiamaiko, Huruma, Kariobangi, Umoja, Mukuru and Embakasi.
It also provides appropriate connectivity mainly of Nairobi–Thika Highway to,
among other corridors, the Eastern Bypass, Kangundo Road, Northern Bypass,
Mombasa Road and the all-important Kenyan gateway, Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport.  Some of the
lanes have been completed and opened for the public to use, while other lanes are
almost complete. Footbridges
are yet to be put up to provide pedestrian safety. “We have a lot
of school children who come from Umoja to Buruburu estate and vice versa,”
Cheboi said. “The
footbridges will be efficient for the safety of schoolchildren and also
pedestrians, as we are trying to minimise the number of accidents on our roads.”
 Painting and
marking of the road lanes have been completed, and embankments are now being
put up to completely separate the lanes. Mirima Alube,
a market vendor on Mutindwa Market, said: “At the moment, I am quite happy to
see the improvement made on this road. For many years, Outer Ring Road was in a
hapless condition.” On the stretch
approaching Allsops, the pedestrian footpaths are almost done, and the lanes
have been opened for use. Trader Fredrick
Okoth said the reconstruction of the road has provided an apt environment for
his business. “The road was
in very poor condition, and the dust was really destroying the clothes in the
store, but now everything is in order. Even the customers are happy that the
clothes are dust-free and they can even fit them before purchase,” Okoth said.