Nakuru county illegally hired staff during Governor Kinuthia Mbugua’s administration, the 2015-16 Auditor General’s report has shown. The report revealed glaring irregularities in the recruitment for ward administrators and personal records of officers recruited into job group N. The payroll was done irregularly and resulted in an increase of about Sh17 million annual wage bill. When Mbugua appeared before the Senate Finance committee last year, he admitted the county had a bloated workforce of 7,000 workers, whose pay swallowed up 43.5 per cent of the county’s annual budget. The audit indicts the County Public Service Board for failing to develop or adopt a plan of service to guide recruitment and placement of staff. The county has 55 wards and yet 90 ward administrators were hired. “The county Public Service Management wrote to the Pubic Service Board, requesting recruitment of 80 ward officers on September 1, 2014. After the interviews, a list of 80 successful applicants was communicated,” the report says. An additional 10 ward administrators were requested and subsequently recruited by the board, it adds. The report indicated that the PSB required officers with certain levels of academic qualification. But most of those employed were fresh graduates from college without the necessary experience to join job group N. “Some officers were engaged without having necessary academic qualifications. Some of the files examined had no evidence in the file to show the applicants were working in places mentioned in their respective curriculum vitae,” the report states. The audit of the county payroll also indicated that 52 officers were recruited into job group H, despite a lack of budget provision for the positions. CEC’s approval was also not granted. The report says some positions were filled without being advertised. No shortlisting and interviews were conducted, it adds. It cites the Roads, Transport and Public Works department that required 20 officers in 2015. “It’s unclear how the officers were assigned personal numbers and included on the payroll,” it adds. In 2015, the county assembly formed a committee to look into illegal hiring of 200 workers. The committee was told that boardroom wrangles and interference by the executive may have contributed to the unlawful recruitments. Then-speaker Susan Kihika set up the probe after MCAs adopted a committee report on recruitment of subcounty administrators, ward administrators and casual workers in 2014-15. That committee had recommended suspension of the board over the unauthorised hiring. It also sanctioned the sacking of 36 administrative officers it said were hired unlawfully. The bloated workforce has raised concern, with the Senate calling for a forensic audit to ascertain the exact number of staff on the payroll and their qualifications.