The thing about cursing is that we’re told not to. This curse-curtailing goes way back to our mothers and Sunday school teachers promising us hell and damnation for using naughty words, to the chain gang punishment we received in high school for committing the two mistakes of using profanity, and then getting caught doing it. Society in general takes a dim view of the use of colourful language. It even goes as far as to consider people who swear as low class, ill-educated, and base. Not true says Dr Timothy Jay, emeritus Professor of Psychology, renowned expert on cursing, and author of numerous books on the subject.  The good doctor and his colleagues in their studies found that the tendency to swear was not a result of having a deficient vocabulary, but rather verbal fluency more generally associated with the middle upper class, who I presume have read many more books than the ill-educated. While I do think that it’s cowardly to swear on social media, and unwise to drag in family members of the person at the receiving end of your profanity (unless you want your ass kicked), it turns out that swearing under your breath, or very loudly, depending on what the situation calls for, is good for your psychology, and also relieves pain. Let us look at two scenarios that demonstrate the benefits of swearing. You’re a young man and it’s the Thursday before Easter. Your plan for the long weekend is a romantic trip with a girl who just recently assumed the title of girlfriend. But just before you call it a day that Thursday, your boss calls you to his office and says something’s come up; you’re going to have to work late today. And come in on Saturday as well. Probably even Sunday.  Now there are several ways this could go. You could quit right there and then, or start crying, or punch your boss, or you could swear. Smart money says what you’ll do is have quite a number of four-letter words to say about the job, your boss, and your life (sotto voce of course). What swearing does in this case, and others similar, is it enables us to get back at bad people and situations without resorting to violence, or making rash decisions. It gives a sense of power and control over undesirable situations, providing us with the illusion of fighting back. By swearing we show, if only to ourselves, that we’re not passive victims, and that’s a boost to our confidence and self-esteem.  The other scenario: How else, without using profanity, to describe the sensation after you stub your little toe against the foot of your bed first thing in the morning? The reason for this cursing as you hop around in pain is that the swearing increases tolerance to pain. Don’t take my word for it, take Richard Stephens’ word, senior lecturer in psychology at Keele University, who after extensive research on the benefits of swearing, found that spewing expletives increases your heart rate. This in turn activates the ‘fight or flight’ response, leading to a surge of adrenaline and elevated endorphins and subsequently, an analgesic (painkiller) effect.     Huh. Painkiller and stress reliever, who’d have thought that of swearing?