Not many African authors have attempted a speculative fiction book, so Nnedi Okorafor’s novel, Who Fears Death, stands out in that regard.  Onyesonwu is an Ewu, a mixed-race child who is despised by her people. Her African mother was raped by a military man of the fair-skinned Nuru race during a raid. Only she survived from her village.  Light-skinned and brown-haired like the desert she was born in, Onyesonwu’s supernatural skills from a young age alienate her from the superstitious and highly patriarchal society she lives in. Only her mother and step-father lover her unconditionally.  Determined to understand her destiny, an old prophecy and the terrifying feeling that somebody is trying to murder her, the teenaged Onyesonwu journeys into the desert and through regions torn by ethnic strife.  A handful of her friends join in this fateful quest that tests their friendship and loyalty, and along the way, a master sorcerer reluctantly tutors Onyesonwu, in whose hands lies the fate of her community.   Okorafor has created a post-apocalyptical world both familiar and fantastical. The story takes place in stark desert lands and small towns, where girls are circumcised at a young age.  The sectarian violence recalls South Sudan’s long-running civil war between Muslims and Christians. Yet the cast of characters includes mythical creatures, spiritual beings and a herd of friendly free-range camels.  This fantasy tale explores the nature of love, patriarchy, rites of passage, race and rape as weapon of war within the rich cultural traditions of Nigeria. The writer has used magic, mythology, super-technology and African spirituality to discuss tough social issues facing today’s world. And in Onyesamu, we have a beautiful and powerful but imperfect protagonist whose explosive temperament sometimes makes you dislike her.  At over 400 pages, the narrative meanders in the middle chapters, when Onyesemu and friends join a band of free-spirited desert nomads. It remains unclear how and why things came to be in this war-torn country, leaving a gap in the historical background. The plot is not complicated but Onakofor does not sugar-coat the inter-ethnic atrocities and violence against women. Overall, a perceptive and sometimes unpleasant read, but an engaging story.  One might be tempted to compare this book to great fantasy novels of our time, such as Game of Thrones and Lord of the Rings, which are based in medieval Europe and western mythology. But as a genre, African science fiction, of which there are few indigenous titles to compare it to, Who Fears Death deserves an unbiased assessment.  This is the first adult novel by the American-born children’s author, whose parents are originally from Nigeria.  The book won the Carl Brandon Kindred Award in 2010 and the World Fantasy Award for Best Novel in 2011. It is set to be adapted by HBO television network into a TV series. 