The International day for the Elimination of Violence against Women which is being marked today(November 25) marks the beginning of 16-days of activism which will culminate on International Human Rights Day marked on December 10. The 16-days of activism under the theme “Leave No One Behind’ is intended to create awareness and galvanise people to bring an end to the violence meted out to an estimated 35 per cent of women and girls in the world who have experienced either physical and or sexual violence. According to a report by the UN Women, 50% of the women who were killed around the world in 2012 were murdered by intimate partners or family members compared to 6% of homicides where the victim was male. In Kenya, an estimated 20% of the women have been victims of violence in one form or another. The Kenya Demographic Health Survey 2014 indicates that rural women are more likely to be victims of violence than their rural counterparts. According to the survey, more than 50% of the women aged 15-49 years from Nyanza, Western and Nairobi provinces reported having experienced physical violence since age 15. The theme reinforces the UNiTE Campaign’s (by UN Women) commitment to a world free from violence for all women and girls around the world while reaching the most underserved and marginalized, including refugees, migrants, minorities, indigenous peoples, and populations affected by conflict and natural disasters, amongst others, first. A new emphasis is also the sexual harassment of women in the workplace. Of even more concern is female genital mutilation which is another extreme form of violence against women and girls. The Restorers, a group of five female students from Kisumu High School early this year came up with  I-cut a mobile phone app that connects girls at risk of FGM with rescue centres and gives legal and medical help to those who have been cut. Its simple interface has five buttons - help, rescue, report, information on FGM, donate and feedback – thereby offering users different services. According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey 2014,  on average 21% of Kenyan women are circumcised. women in the rural areas (26% ) are more likely to undergo FGM than their urban counterparts (14%). A report by UN shows that this practice has declined by 24 per cent since around 2000.  Nevertheless, prevalence remains high in some of the 30 countries with representative data. In those countries, survey data from around 2015 indicate that more than 1 in 3 girls between 15 and 19 years of age have undergone the procedure compared to nearly 1 in 2 girls around 2000. A social media campaign using the #16daysofactivism has already started to raise awareness about the issue.