No one has claimed the cargo vessel that President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered blown up at sea with its cargo of Sh1.3 billion heroin. Mombasa assistant DPP Alexander Muteti said the MV Al Noor, which contained heroin, was destroyed after the owners failed to come forward. It was blown up on August 29, 2014, off the coast off Mombasa. This violated court orders to preserve the vessel as evidence, but destroy the heroin. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the explosion and watched from a helicopter, saying this was a warning to drugs traffickers. Muteti was giving submissions yesterday in a Mombasa magistrate’s court during the trial of nine foreigners and three Kenyans charged in connection with the Sh1.3 billion heroin. The Kenyans and foreigners are accused of smuggling 370.8kg heroin with a street value of about Sh1.3 billion. Muteti said police could not continue paying for the storage of the vessel at Kilindini Port as information on its owner remained a mystery. According to the law, the vessel had to be destroyed because of the quantity of drugs found in it, he said. The ship did not have a flag indicating its country of origin as required by shipping laws, the assistant DPP said. He also said the vessel had two names, the Al Noor and MV Darya, contrary to international law. Muteti said that indicated there was something shady going on. Muteti told the court it is not disputed drugs were recovered from the vessel, and the people on board must have been aware of that.. He said local contacts were found in books recovered on the ship. This made it evident, he said, they were the owners of the contracts and were to act as local agents who were to deal with the clearance of the consignment. It was also wrong for the defence to claim the state had not produced any evidence, Muteti said. He said the prosecution had produced samples of the drugs and a testing certificate from the Government Chemist. Muteti said the suspects onboard the ship should be held responsible for trafficking drugs into Kenya. However, defence counsel Jared Magolo said Kenya does not have jurisdiction to charge the foreigners, Pakistanis. He said the ship was not destined for Kenya, but Kenya’s Navy towed the ship from the high seas into Kenyan waters.  The hearing of the submissions proceeds on November 9.