National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga
should understand that the game has changed from sharing power through
boardroom meetings by few individuals to the people through the ballot.  He still thinks that he will have
dialogue with President Uhuru Kenyatta on how to run the affairs of the
government after the disputed repeat presidential election.  In 2022, Kenyans will speak by going
into the elections and there will be no room for dialogue between the winner
and the loser. It is Uhuru now, it will be Deputy President William Ruto in
2022.  Ruto has been a significant engine behind
Jubilee’s victory since the 2013 General Election. It is clear that the former
Prime Minister has started expressing fears of locking horns with Ruto in 2022.
Ruto has not yet ignited his engine for 2022, but Raila has already began
fighting in a battle that has not yet started.  The same way Kenyans resolved by a
clear margin on October 26 for Uhuru, is the same way they will resolve for
Ruto in 2022.  The sentiments by Raila on his tour to
United States indicate that he has already given up on the 2017 poll and is now
focusing on 2022. If he has given up on this particular race, he should come
back home from America.  I think it is too early to start
panicking for the 2022 presidential election. The same fate that has befallen
him in 2017 is the same fate that will befall him in 2022.  Raila focusing so much on help from
foreigners portrays that he does not have faith in any institution in this
country.  I don’t know the candidates that will
be vying for the country’s top seat in the next General Election, but, in my
view, Ruto has indisputable support from the majority of Kenyans. Ruto, being a
politician I have known for many years, will link bridges even in NASA zones.
His star is shining more than ever before.  If you see Raila engaging in and
expecting exchanges from Ruto now, this means that the DP’s political career is
shining. It has never shone like now, and it can only get brighter between now
and 2022.  In 2022, Raila and Ruto’s presidential
candidature will be a reflection of an old order and a new order respectively,
and the new order will win.  The writer is MP for Laikipia West
and a lawyer