Sauti Sol have been MIA from the music scene for a while now, and this raised questions if the group is still together. Breaking their silence, they urged their fans to calm down. Speaking to Adelle Onyango and Shaffie Weru, Bien said they have been travelling a lot and working on new music with some of the biggest names in Africa. He said, "We are working on a few things.
We've been travelling a lot, doing shows all over the world and we went
to Nigeria and when we were there, we managed to shoot a couple of
videos for some content that we've been doing for the last few months.
So we shot four videos with Tiwa Savage, Adekunle Gold, Patoranking and
Burna Boy. We are also working on a lot of stuff here in Kenya with
different artistes. So we've just been working on putting out content." The boy band just released a brand new song with Patoranking called Melanin. When asked how it was working with Patoranking, Chimano explained, "Patoranking
is an amazing human being. So we pinned him down when he was here for
Coke Studio. We were like we have a song for you. We played it for
him, Bien got the guitar, played him the acoustic, akasema twende studio
sahi sahi. So we recorded the song in Polycarp's house and he was just
so gracious. Pato si mtu wa mapetho, hana maringo." They have had their own fair share of challenges in the industry. So what are some of the challenges they have faced? "Trying to be level-headed, and the greatest
challenge is trying to keep your mouth shut as well, because being where
we are, people ask so much of you. You are judged and the judgment we
get here is quite a lot. It's just finding a balance where you're able to
take it in but not completely giving out."  Bien added, " We are
human. Whatever people say out there can break you but also we use those instances to bounce back. A
lot of time, 80 per cent of the people who are talking want to be where you are,  and when you find a lot of voices attacking you from different
directions, it's important to also take a step back and just shut them
out. You know, even as an artiste, to find yourself, you need to get out
of the noises on social media and listen to your inner voice, because in
the beginning, those voices weren't there, especially now when everyone
has an opinion. It's important to just stand your ground and be
yourself. At the end of the day, remember that you're in this because
you love it."