Nurses have resumed work across the country, but some may not receive their withheld salaries for the next two months.  Most counties stopped salaries a month after the nurses began their strike on June 5. The return-to-work formula signed last week allows the counties to release those salaries after year’s-end. A spot check in Nairobi and other towns showed most nursing staff were back to work. The reality of the return-to-work formula was also dawning on the nurses. Initially, they will earn only an extra Sh3,416 every month, beginning June next year. Kenya National Union of Nurses’ chairman John Bii dismissed the agreement as a sham.  “You can imagine after a five-month strike, nurses get such a meagre allowance. To make matters worse, this is something that has been deferred to next year,” Bii told the Star yesterday.  In the agreement, the nurses were promised that their existing Sh10,000 annual uniform allowance will be increased by Sh5,000 every year until 2020. Sh3,000 will also be added to their existing monthly nursing service allowance next year. However, it will be topped up with Sh3,500 in 2019 and 2020.  “Something that is also missing from this return-to-work formula is we have not been told if the Salaries and Remuneration Commission approved it. Suppose the SRC rejects it, where are we headed?” Bii asked.  The agreement was signed by KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako and vice-chairman Joseph Ngwasi in Nairobi on Thursday.  The union was already under pressure because 60 per cent of nurses had abandoned the strike last month after the county governments proceeded to sack some of them. Those sackings have now been reversed. The Labour Court had also declared the strike illegal and Justice Hellen Wasilwa was expected to punish the union officials next Thursday if they did not end the strike.  The nurses demanded a Sh15,400 monthly risk allowance, Sh5,000 monthly extraneous allowance and uniform allowance be increased from Sh10,000 to Sh50,000 per year.  “This will go down as the most unsuccessful strike ever staged by nurses anywhere on earth. It’s only in Kenya where nurses strike for five months and get rewarded a paltry Sh3,416 postdated to June next year,” a nurse posted on KNUN social media pages. Health CS Cleopa Mailu said they would try to resolve conflicts in future without resorting to strikes. “What has happened to the health sector in the last 12 months is regrettable,” he added.