 A rift has emerged within Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress party after some members challenged the gazette notice for the appointment of Barack Muluka as secretary general.  The October 30 notice indicated that Muluka had taken over from Godfrey Osotsi who was nominated to the National Assembly.  Muluka was appointed to the post on October 12 after a meeting of the party's National Executive Committee in Nairobi.  Read: Barrack Muluka appointed ANC secretary general, Mudavadi happy However, eight members of the party on Friday filed two separate petitions before Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung'u seeking to quash the appointment of the renowned political analyst and publisher.  They protested the move by the NASA co-principal to appoint Muluka claiming that the process was not procedural and not consistent with the party constitution. The petitioners, who claims that Muluka was imposed on members by the committee, demanded that a fresh election comprising of party officials be held to elect the SG.  In the first petition, Ibrahim Memba termed the appointment as “gross violation of the party constitution”.  Memba has enjoined party chairman Ken Lunani, Mudavadi, and Osotsi in the petition accusing them of misinforming Ndung'u that the party had unanimously settled on Muluka.  The party is accused of failing to provide ample time for members to question Muluka's appointment, hence, contravening Section 20 (2) and (3) of the Political Parties Act that allows members to exploit stipulated dispute resolution mechanisms.  The second petition entailed seven members of the party who argue that thje party violated the Political Parties Act in replacing Osotsi.  Led by Evans Nyaribo, the team said that the meeting held by the committee to endorse Mulika was inconsistent with the party's Constitution since it was not constituted accordingly.  Nyaribo said a free and fair election was not held to elect new party officials as required by the Law.  "The minutes of the said meeting was fraudulent and exposes key party officials to criminal charges for violation of offences contained in the political Parties Act," Nyaribo said.  Muluka once worked as Opposition leader Raila Odinga's campaigns director of communication. ANC is one of four parties under the National Super Alliance. The others are Raila Odinga's ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya. Click here for the latest political news  