The DPP wants four officers in Kisumu to face disciplinary action for the death of baby Samantha Pendo during post election protests. Keriako Tobiko has also ordered a public inquest formed to look into the killing of the six-month-old baby and Stephanie Moraa who was killed in Mathare, Nairobi. He made the directive after investigations by the Independent Police Oversight Authority "Having perused the investigation file and considered the evidence therein, the Director of Public Prosecutions agreed with and accepted the recommendations by IPOA and directed accordingly," Tobiko said in a statement. Read more: IPOA completes probe into baby Samantha Pendo, Moraa killings In the case of baby Pendo, IPOA recommended disciplinary action against Kisumu county commander Titus, OCPD Kisumu East Chrisopher Mutune, DAPC Kisumu Central Benjamin Koima and OCS Kisumu Central John Thiringi. "The National Police Service Commission should institute disciplinary proceedings against the commanders in question for being negligent .... and particularly for failing to coordinate the police operation in question, thereby making it difficult for the identity of the police officers who committed criminal acts to be known and ultimately impending IPOA's investigation," read part of the report. [VIDEO] Kisumu's baby Samantha died from severe head injuries - postmortem More on this : Nyong'o blasts security bosses at baby Samantha Pendo's requiem mass As for the late Moraa, IPOA said they were not able to identify those who killed the eight-year-old girl. "Consequently, we could not recommend any charges concerning the said incident against any of the police officers involved in the operation in question," read part of the IPOA report. Read more: Girl, 9, shot by cops in Mathare buried in Kisii A report released by the Kenya National Human Rights Commission last month showed seven children were among 37 people killed by police officers three days after the August 8 polls. The other victims were youths between 20 and 45. Twenty eight were men and two women.  Except for two deaths caused by civilians, the rest were attributed to alleged use of excessive force by the police. 