Makueni MCAs want executives and national government officers investigated over the illegal dumping of hazardous material in Ngulu sublocation, Kibwezi. The MCAs recommended investigations launched to establish whether county government officials, NEMA and the assistant chief colluded to establish an asbestos dumping site without following due procedure of disposal of hazardous material. In the report tabled yesterday, the ward representatives criticised the failure to create public awareness on the material and its effects. The report was produced by the joint committee on Health, Water, Irrigation and Environment. It was tabled by Water committee chairman Kisungi Katete. The group found that West Africa Kenya Limited Company responsible for the dumping did not follow NEMA guidelines in dumping asbestos in Ngulu village, Kikumbulyu North. It also found that the public was misled on the purpose of the land during a public participation drive.  “Investigations should be launched to the lead Environmental Impact Assessment expert, Jackson Mutuku, and necessary action taken against him for giving false information to the public on May 5, 2015,” the report says. It adds that investigators should question officers of the National Environment Management Authority, provincial administration and any county government official who might have colluded to authorise dumping of asbestos. The committee wants the contractor to stop handling and disposing asbestos in the area. The Health executive was told to report to the committee within 30 days on any other area with asbestos and the method the county government plans to apply in handling the material. The MCAS said it is necessary to visit the Kiambu county dumpsite. They have recommended that the Health executive coordinates proper ways of removing and disposing of asbestos.  Meanwhile, the Kitui government will use Sh5.5 million to get rid of cancer-causing asbestos dumped in Kiongwe Hills, Kitui East subcounty, Governor Charity Ngilu said on October 12.  She said the county has hired an asbestos removal and disposal firm to retrieve the dangerous substance. Ngilu spoke when she visited the area. Environment chief officer Muusya Mwinzi said Waste Africa Ltd started removing asbestos at Ngai Ndethye Ranch. Information in the website shows the company has expertise in management and safe disposal of asbestos.  The removal of the asbestos comes a month after Ngilu agreed with landowner Maluki Kitili to have the toxic substance removed. The contaminated site is a water catchment area for the Thua River that serves Mutitu residents. The toxic asbestos is said to have been dumped in Kiongwe by Sonata Kenya Ltd. In July, its director Noah Khaemba was charged after his firm was accused of violating requirements, following the issuance of a licence of disposal. He denied two counts of breaching licensing conditions for the disposal of asbestos waste in Kitui.