Kenyans have expressed their disappointments after world champions Hellen Obiri and Elijah Manang’oi missed out on the final list for the IAAF Athlete of the Year awards. The two are not featuring on the final list of six released yesterday by the world governing body, IAAF. They are Mutaz Barsham, Mo Farah and Wayde Van Niekerk on the men’s side and world 10,000m record holder Almaz Ayana, heptathlete Naissatou Thiam and Ekaterini Stefanidi in the women’s final three. The male and female World Athletes of the Year will be announced live on stage at the 2017 IAAF Athletics Awards in Monaco on November 24. The list was met with uproar as Kenyans wondered how Obiri and Manang’oi missed out despite a stellar season that saw them dominate their respective 5,000m and 1,500m disciplines. Manang’oi’s coach, Bernard Ouma, let fly his feelings. “It is a bit disappointing to see the two miss out,” said Ouma. “It is unfair. I wish we would know what criteria was used outside the social media voting.” “How do you leave Obiri out? he asked. “It seems like our Kenyan vote doesn’t count. Or maybe it is because Kenya doesn’t have a representative at the IAAF Council. It is sad that we beat them (the world) on the track but they beat us at the awards. It seems pre-meditated.” However, Ouma remained positive and is looking forward to an even better season. “Being on the shortlist as a nominee was an achievement enough for Manang’oi and we can only hope for the better,” he observed. Athletics Kenya (AK) president Jackson Tuwei termed the development as unfortunate. “It is very unfourtunate to have both miss out. We had very high hopes in them. We voted and even asked our friends to vote for them and we hoped to have at least one of them win something,” said Tuwei. “All we do is ask them (Obiri and Manang’oi) not to lose hope. They should keep going. Everybody knows they are good athletes who can win anywhere, like they have shown this season.” His sentiments were amplified by AK athletes’ representative Milka Chemos. “I am very disappointed,” she said. “It reminds me of 2011 when Vivian Cheruiyot lost in a similar situation. It hurts. Even a blind person or a a class three kid can tell you the difference between Obiri and the finalists.” “I think this is not the way to do things. We should have had at least one of them on the list. I think the IAAF owes us an explanation,” she observed. National athletics coach Julius Kirwa was equally dismayed saying: “I think it is unfair. Unless there is something that we are not aware of.” A three-way voting process was used to determine the finalists. The IAAF Council and the IAAF Family cast their votes by email, while fans voted online via the IAAF’s social media platforms. The IAAF Council’s vote counted for 50% of the result while the IAAF Family’s votes and the public votes each counted for 25% of the final result. Obiri was among the standout runners of this past season, which ended with the Diamond League Trophy, an Olympic silver medal and the world title.