President Uhuru Kenyatta is reaching out to opposition chief Raila Odinga for a political deal to save the country from deepening division. Details emerged the day before Uhuru and DP William Ruto are to be inaugurated for their final five-year terms and Raila plans what could be a hugely overshadowing, distracting and embarrassing parallel event at the same time. Related: Security tight hours to Uhuru's swearing-in, 60,000 expected As Raila's event has been banned, confrontation with police is likely. The olive branch actually several branches were extended in two meetings over the weekend by National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale to Raila's elder brother Oburu Odinga, sources close to the discussions have told the Star. There were a flurry of emissaries. Oburu confirmed the two meetings to the Star and said Duale had sent a personal message to Raila. He declined to discuss it. The peace offerings also come with conditions publicly recognise Uhuru as the legitimately elected President, tone down NASA's anti-government activities and call off the rally today. NASA's prayer event is supposed to memorialise victims of police violence during opposition marches and protests. “If Raila accepts the proposal, the President himself will get involved in the negotiations,” a source familiar with the intrigues told the Star. There was no word on Raila's response but the rally was said to be on, though the proposals were said to be under consideration by the former Prime Minister and his lieutenants. The Jubilee proposals: 1) Raila's lieutenants would receive at least two Cabinet posts and four slot for Principal Secretaries for the NASA leader; 2) NASA would be given influential parastatal jobs and diplomatic appointments; 3) Jubilee would use its majority in Parliament to unconditionally approve Oburu and Kalonzo Muyoka's son Kennedy as members of the East African Legislative Assembly; 4) Jubilee would donate one of its own six EALA slots to Musalia Mudavadi's ANC. The ANC and Ford Kenya are not entitled to any EALA seats because of their small representation in Parliament; 5) Uhuru himself will personally be involved in negotiations if Raila accepts. By yesterday, there were signals the icy Jubilee-NASA relationship had begun to thaw. Raila's full security detail of 12 officers were to be reinstated by close of business yesterday. Security for co-principals Kalonzo and Moses Wetang'ula was also to be restored. The security details were withdrawn on September 27 as NASA began demonstrations to push out IEBC officials they blamed for bungling the August 8 polls. In an interview with the Star yesterday, Oburu, the former Bondo lawmaker also said Duale had sent a message to Raila. “And he [Duale] was also trying to see if there is anything that I can talk to my brother [Raila] about. But I told him, that it's better President Uhuru reaches out directly to Raila. Not through me,” Oburu said. “You know political temperatures are high, so naturally, as a stalwart of Jubilee, from all angles, he would want the temperatures to cool," Oburu said. The inauguration will be attended by 100,000 people, including heads of state and government or their representatives. It will start at 9am and Kenyatta will deliver a speech outlining his vision and how he plans to unite a divided country. Over the weekend, there was a flurry of events by various emissaries, racing against time to get NASA and Jubilee to initiate some form of dialogue. Sources close to the discussions tell the Star the first meeting was on Friday at Duale's office and the second was at the private Parklands Sports club. Yesterday, Oburu, a prominent and respected member of the Jaramogi Oginga family, said in an interview, “Duale is my friend. Even on Friday, I went to his office. I was campaigning for an EALA seat. You have to reach out to everybody, so I was looking for his support. During the discussions, it's said Duale demanded NASA calls off today's rally and prayer gathering. The NASA event has been banned by police, however, it is expected to take place somewhere, probably just a few kilometres from Uhuru's swearing in ceremony at Kasarani. NASA has pledged to push anti-government activities, including civil disobedience, boycotts and People's Assemblies in the counties. The opposition initially insisted it would swear in Raila as the People's President today. However, Raila rejected the idea on Saturday at Maanzoni, disappointing many hardliners and other supporters. By late last evening, NASA insisted its planned and banned rally at Jacaranda grounds was still on. It was not clear whether Raila had rejected the overtures or talks were still at an early stage. The Jubilee government fears the NASA rally could overshadow the swearing-in ceremony. At least 11 heads of state are expected to attend Uhuru's coronation as the state is determined to demonstrate global acceptance despite controversy that marred the August 8 General Election and the October 26 rerun. On Sunday, the President publicly reached out to the opposition in an apparent call for dialogue. Speaking at Redeemed Gospel Church in Huruma, Uhuru asked the opposition to save Kenyans from political confrontation, adding the country should now come together. “Na hata naomba wale tulishindana na wao. Hakuna haja sasa ya kusumbua mwananchi. Mwananchi ametimiza yake. Sisi tuje sasa tukae na tupange yale ambayo twataka kutendea Kenya. (And I ask my competitors that there is no need to disturb citizens. The citizens did their part. We should now come together, sit and plan what we want to do for Kenya,” Uhuru said.. On August 11, in his acceptance speech after the botched August 8 poll, Uhuru appealed directly to Raila. "To my brother Mr Odinga, I reach out to you. I reach out to all your supporters and all those who were elected on opposition benches, and say that we shall work together, partner and grow this country together," Uhuru said "I extend a hand of friendship, cooperation, and a promise to partner to work together to succeed. And Kenyans want us to succeed." Click here for the latest political news