Kiambu MCAs want NASA principal Raila Odinga to call off planned protests, including a Million Man March. They said on Wednesday the country is already divided and further protests will aggravate tension among communities. They also want NASA to call off its national People’s Assembly. They are part of the campaigns to be launched next month. They include a call to boycott goods and services that benefit the Jubilee administration and its backers. On Tuesday, Raila announced formation of the People’s Assembly, comprised of politicians, civil society groups, religious leaders, women and youth leaders. It will identify numerous governance problems and resist Jubilee and the administration of President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Raila also announced NASA will hold mass protests to push for constitutional and other legal changes. The MCAs were debating the current situation in the country. Mwihoko MCA Benson King’ara moved the motion to discuss the political situation. Deputy speaker Phillip Mubea said NASA’s protests and the People’s Assembly would incite Kenyans. Majority leader Ikonya Mwaniki criticised Raila for boycotting the repeat presidential election, and instead calling for demonstrations. He deplored the burning of houses and destruction of property during the presidential rerun on October 26. “There are ways of pursuing peace. Raila, who is now a rebel, boycotted the election, while President Uhuru heeded the Supreme Court ruling to repeat the poll,” Ikonya said. “Everyone has a right to vote. However, no right overrides the other. The right of an individual stops where another person’s right begins.” The country has to be defended against arson, he added. The MCAs condemned the chaos in Kawangware, saying it was politically instigated. Nominated MCA and former radio journalist Josephine Nduta urged Kenyans to promote peace and reconciliation. Tribal and partisan politics are of no benefit, she said. “Now that elections are over, we need to embark on reconciliation. We need to accept that our diversity is our strength and the tension caused by electoral cycles should not disturb our peaceful co-existence,” Nduta said. He said the country is in an anxious period and presidential campaigns escalated apprehensions amongst wananchi. “Our country is suffering a decline in our economy arising from the elections. Therefore, it is important that our Leaders respect the law, ” King’ara said.