UDP leader Cyrus Jirongo has dismissed attempts by NASA and Jubilee leaders to divide Kenya, terming the move “primitive”. Jirongo said separation would compromise the stability of the country.  He urged leaders to learn from what is going on in South Sudan, which broke away from Sudan in 2011. It is still torn by fighting between government forces and rebels. Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma and Jubilee strategist Washington Makodingo have drafted secession bills, seeking to amend the Constitution to create two republics. Jirongo said Kenyan leaders should instead be thinking about how to make the East African Community work, not dividing Kenya into small tribal enclaves. Speaking on the phone yesterday, the former Lugari MP said leaders must confront problems head-on, not agitate for breakaway. “Countries the world over are seeking ways to confederate to strengthen their economies. It is unfortunate some leaders in Kenya are thinking of becoming a village, imagining creating their own corner to become kings there,” he said. Kaluma has drafted a secession bill, seeking to split Kenya into the People’s Republic of Kenya and the Central Republic of Kenya by amending Article 5 of the Constitution. In the bill tabled in Parliament, Kaluma wants 40 of 47 counties to secede, forming the People’s Republic of Kenya.  But on Tuesday, Makodingo drafted a bill seeking to exclude Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties from Kenya. This is seen as a move to counter separation talk that has gained currency within NASA circles. Yesterday, Jirongo said large sections of the country have been excluded in distribution of national resources and suffered other historical injustices under past regimes for decades. Separation will not cure these problems, he said. Jirongo said what is needed is a permanent solution to problems bedeviling Kenyans so injustices do not recur. He said partial distribution of national resources is Kenya’s biggest challenge since independence. “What is happening is like erecting the Berlin Wall between communities that have lived together and intermarried for decades,” he said.