And the Lord said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood is crying to me from the ground.” Genesis 4:10 When I saw the pictures of seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda lying dead on his pool of blood on a balcony at his family’s home, having been shot by the police, my heart was torn. In such times of moral crisis, there is no room for equivocation. We must choose sides. On the Day of Judgment, Jesus will ask us what we did when Master Mutinda was killed. Our Constitution binds all, big and small, rich and poor. Our Constitution says any other law that is inconsistent with it is VOID. The Bill of Rights in the Constitution makes it clear that we all have the rights to Life, Equality from Discrimination, Human Dignity, Freedom of Expression, Politics, Freedom to Demonstrate and Picket and Freedom from Degrading Treatment. These rights are not the privilege of any individual or institution. Our laws do not allow the police to kill anyone except as stated by the law. The National Police Act, 2011 states clearly that a cop can only use his or her gun when their life is in danger or preventing a felon from escaping from lawful custody, or to protect life and property. Burning or looting a kiosk can never be a reason to kill. And sufficient notice must in any event be given before use of firearms. However, it seems the police have been quick to use guns to quell NASA rallies. This year alone, over 100 people are documented to have died in police shootings. This is not morally or legally right. In France, public demonstrations are more violent than Kenya, yet the police never kill. In South Africa, demonstrators buy bricks to use against the police and no one gets killed. In Pakistan, demonstrators are armed and police rarely kill. Why then is the Kenya Police so trigger happy as to kill? Under international law, the defence of Superior Command plea is no longer available. Individuals, whether police or military or civilians, are personally liable for breaching international norms on life, property and war. Our Police Act is very clear: That you only obey lawful orders. Orders that violate the Constitution can’t be lawful. My plea and prayer to our police is, be human, and read and understand our Constitution and the Police Act. The writer is a lawyer. Click here for the latest political news