The criminal case against two directors of Tuskys Supermarket accused of stealing Sh1.6 billion from the company will be heard on February 19 next year. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi on Thursday scheduled the hearing after the court was told the out-of-court negotiations sought by the accused to settle the matter failed. Earlier, Andayi allowed an application by the defence seeking 30 days to pursue an out-of-court settlement and directed the case be mentioned last Thursday so the court could be updated on the outcome of the negotiations. But when the matter came up for mention, the prosecution, led by senior state counsel Solomon Naulikha, said the parties have failed to agree. The control of the Tuskys business took a new twist in May when the two directors — Stephen Kamau and George Kamau — were charged with five counts of Sh1.6 billion theft. The court was told the complainant, Yusuf Kamau, is the brother of the accused persons and there has been a tussle over control of the business, pitting the brothers against each other. The prosecution says between 2002 and 2012 at Tuskys headquarters along Mombasa Road, Nairobi, the accused, jointly with others not before the court, stole Sh400 million belonging to Tuskys. The cash came into their possession by virtue of their positions as directors. The two are also accused of stealing an additional Sh279 million over the same period and a further Sh200 million while employed as directors. The accused have denied the charges. They are out on Sh1 million cash bail. Earlier, their lawyer, Saibabo Kanchori, informed the court that the case against the directors was “an extension of a family tussle”. “The complainant in the case is the brother of the accused persons. There has been a tussle over control of the business,” he said. Kanchori added that no money was stolen. The dispute has been pending at the DCI headquarters for the past seven years and has had a round in court before Justice George Odunga in 2013, who directed the parties to pursue a settlement out of court, he said. “The complainant wants them incarcerated so he can control the vast business empire,” the lawyer said.