A special team investigating top IEBC officials linked to the botched August presidential poll has not submitted the report to the Public Prosecutions boss, 24 days after making the request. The Star was yesterday told DPP Keriako Tobiko wrote to a joint team of investigators from the EACC and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations on October 19 requesting the files after the 21-day probe time frame lapsed, but no response has been given.“After the lapse of 21 days, the DPP wrote a follow-up letter to the EACC and copied to the DCI on October 19 requesting for a status report on the investigations,” said senior assistant communications officer in the DPP’s office Beatrice Omari. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had confirmed the investigations were at “an advanced stage.” Tobiko on September 23, after the presidential election was nullified, directed the team comprising his senior prosecutors providing technical guidance support in the investigations to “expeditiously” probe the matter and submit the file on October 23. “The Director of Public Prosecutions is awaiting submission of the investigation file to enable him to take appropriate action,” Omari said. However, a source within the EACC privy to the investigations told the Star emerging national issues have caused the delay in completing the probe and forwarding the report to Tobiko. “Issues of national interest such as the October 26 repeat presidential election affected the work of investigators and they had to wait until the poll is over,” the Star was told. Eleven IEBC top officials, including chief executive Ezra Chiloba, NASA’s chief presidential campaigner Musalia Mudavadi and lead counsel James Orengo are among individuals the team is investigating for allegedly interfering with the August 8 poll. Investigators from the DCI under Ndegwa Muhoro and those under EACC chief executive Halakhe Waqo are also probing six senior Safaricom staff and Jubilee Party chief agent Davis Chirchir. Orengo and Mudavadi are being investigated on claims they unlawfully accessed IEBC servers, while Chirchir is accused of committing electoral malpractice by aiding the electoral commission to abet offences.