The government has stopped the hiring of university staff on permanent and pensionable terms with immediate effect. Education CS Fred Matiang'i made the announcement on Wednesday, saying new staff members will get contracts from January. "[We have stopped the] hiring, especially of support staff, on PP. We will recruit on contractual basis," he said while opening a forum for for public university chiefs in Nairobi "The proposal to introduce contract-based employment in varsities will start in the next financial year...Time has come when we must reflect on how to run universities." The minister noted those already in employment will not be affected by the new system Matiang'i's remarks came days after the Universities Academic Staff Union scolded the government for laxity in paying lecturers' allowances and pensions as their strike entered week three. Lecturers are pushing for higher perks as stated in their 2013-17 collective bargaining agreement drafted by universities, unions and the government. "You will negotiate the CBA. You will pay the arrears plus our pension," UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said. The strike has paralysed institutions and resulted in uncertainty on whether graduations will take place in December.  Under the 2013-17 CBA, lecturers stood to benefit from a 17.5 per cent pay increase and a 3.9 per cent increase in housing allowance. A deal struck in March was for this period. The government had set aside Sh10 billion for the clearance of arrears to lecturers but failed to effect the monthly pay rise. More on this: UASU scolds government and VCs, demands arrears plus pension SATELLITE CAMPUSES Matiangi further froze the setting up of new satellite campuses saying it will be part of the second phase of reforms. "We have closed all campuses of public universities outside Kenya. We will not open any more satellite campuses for we will concentrate on improving existing ones." Matiangi said the ministry has embarked on reforming universities, which he advised to analyse staff and skills needed. In April, the Cabinet Secretary stopped Kenyan universities from opening satellite campuses and said those in operation would be audited afresh. Matiang'i also closed a campus in Rwanda saying it was opened illegally. He did not name the university but Kenyan institutions with campuses in the country include JKUAT and Kenyatta University. "Opening the satellite campuses waters down standards," the CS known for tough reforms told varsity chiefs in Naivasha. Read: Matiang'i freezes opening of satellite campuses, wants fresh audit    