Makueni county assembly on Wednesday approved a motion proposed by National Super Alliance on the creation of People's Assemblies. It now joins Kisumu, Siaya, Vihiga, Homa Bay, Busia, Migori, Bungoma, and Kakamega counties that have already adopted the motion. The motion tabled by Wiper nominated MCA Linnet Mbula intents to push for electoral reforms and review of the Constitution. The plan is to reform the structure of the executive and parliament, safeguard devolution as well as promote inclusivity, equity and fairness in the distribution of resources. She said it is through the assemblies that Kenyan will exercise their sovereign power and have a say in the way they want to be governed. The MCA dismissed claims by Jubilee leaders that the idea was brought by NASA chief Raila Odinga to destabilise the country. "The people's assemblies are not for the purpose of pushing Raila or Kalonzo Musyoka's agenda as Jubilee wants people to believe." "Jubilee leaders are saying it is time to move on but Kenya cannot move on when some people are living as slaves in their own country," she added. The motion was seconded by Majority Leader Kyalo Mumo who accused the Jubilee administration of mismanagement of public resources. The Tulimani MCA said the mode of distribution has worked to the detriment of Kenyans. Mumo said he will never recognize Uhuru Kenyatta as a duly elected president.  "I can manage a kiosk better than the government is managing our resources." "That is why I am appealing to Kenyans to stand with us so that together we redeem ourselves from 'dictatorship' before we all perish," he told the house. His sentiments were echoed by Wiper nominated MCA Martina Ngusye who said the current leadership does not respect the rule of law. "It is through the people's assemblies Kenyans will get rid of such leaders." Mavindini MCA Jonatha Kimongo said instituting the people's assemblies will entrench democracy and respect for people's rights. Read: NASA dispatches people's assembly motions, asks for fresh poll in February