NASA MPs have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of neglecting Kenyan fishermen arrested by Ugandan police along Lake Victoria on Monday. Speaking to the media at Parliament Buildings yesterday, the lawmakers led by John Mbadi (Suba South) said Kenyans living on the shores fear for their security.  However, five fishermen were released after paying ShSh11,000 each. Homa Bay county Beach Management chairman Edward Oremo said they helped the families of the fishermen to raise the funds. Mbadi said they felt neglected by Uhuru’s administration. Fishermen have been terrorised by Ugandan authorities and the government has done nothing about the frequent intimidation, he said. “Twenty-two fishermen were arrested and detained. We know this government hates the people of Nyanza so much, but this is a serious matter pertaining to the sovereignty of this nation. Uhuru should rise up and protect his people,” Mbadi said. He called on Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to send police to protect the region from invasion.  “Boinnet sent many police officers in Nyanza to protect ballot boxes. Why can’t he use the same resources and determination to protect the citizens? We cannot accept to be enslaved in our own country,” Mbadi said. Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda said he will come up with a Bill to subject Lake Victoria to international water laws. Ochanda said Uganda has eight different authorities managing its lakes, but Kenya has failed to effectively protect its territory. Mbadi said, “President Yoweri Museveni is a dictator in Uganda and he should not be allowed to spread the same here. We are not his subjects.” Seme MP James Nyikal said the government has focused on protecting other borders, but has abandoned the lake. “This is deliberate neglect. Why is it that the rest of the country’s borders are safe, but Nyanza is being exposed to humiliation from a neighbouring country?” Nyikal asked. Also attending the media briefing were Tom Odege (Nyatike), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) and Babu Owino (Embakasi East).     Suba North police boss Wilson Nanga  confirmed the arrests.