The Teso community living in Bungoma is sharply divided over plans to sue Governor Wycliffe Wangamati for sidelining them in his cabinet appointments. Teso council of elders chairman David Kapule has already filed a petition at the Bungoma High Court. Kapule Sunday told the Star that it was wrong for Wangamati to fail to appoint a member of their community in his cabinet. But another group led Erik Ajuk is supporting the governor. Kapule filed his petition under a certificate of urgency. He wants the vetting of the 10 nominees stopped until the case is heard and determined. He said the community shoul have a representative in the executive because it is the minority in the county. "We were forced to seek redress in court because our initial memorandum with the governor was not honoured," Kapule said in Bungoma on Friday. He said the Constitution requires that county include members of all the communities in its executive. Ajuk's group however says the governor already nominated a member of the community in Antony Walela. Walela was nominated to head the health docket. Ajuk said he is a Teso who had been assimilated by the Bukusu. “The nominee for health is a member of our community. Only that his father was assimilated by the Bukusu community. It is wrong for people to use the community to fight for their selfish interests," Ajuk said. Kapule dismissed Ajuk as a bitter man who does not represent the community. He accused Ajuk of stealing funds given by the county to the council of elders. He said Ajuk had already been excommunicated from the council and cannot therefore speak on behalf of the elders. "How can a person who is even ashamed of calling himself a Teso pretend to be speaking on behalf of the community," Kapule said. Bungoma county is predominantly Bukusu. Teso is the third largest community group after Sabaots according to the 2009 cencus.   Speaking to the star yesterday Kapule however termed Ajuk a bitter man who does not represent the interests of the community. “Ajuk is a bitter man ,after being ousted last year by the community’s council of elders after he embezzled funds given by the county to organize a cultural fete ,”said Kapule. Kapule said the nominee for health one Antony walela had many occasions denounced the teso comunty and could not serve their interests in the county government. “How can a person who is even ashamed calling himself A teso purport to be a teso now that we are headed to court, at his age and he cant even greet somebody in his language ?”said kapule. Bungoma county is predominantly occupied by the Bukusu followed closely by the sabots and the tesos third according to the last census. Wangamati while unveiling his cabinet last week said he has tried to balance all the regions in the county during  his appointment….ENDS