KMPDU has demanded speedy investigations into the murder of Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital doctor Boutros Mbugua. Treasurer Daisy Korir asked security agencies in Eldoret to find the medic's killers as the incident caused panic among his colleagues. The 25-year-old doctor was found dead in his Elgon View estate house on Monday after failing to turn up for work for three days. Read: Moi hospital doctor found murdered in his Eldoret house Korir further asked the hospital to put up houses for all medical interns so they are not forced to seek accommodation outside the facility.
 She said this in Eldoret during the medical Mbugua's memorial service on Wednesday. Waithaka's body was transported to a mortuary in
Nairobi ahead of the burial in Kiambu on Tuesday. "We have lost a very young and promising life. This should not go unpunished," Korir said.
 MTRH CEO Wilson Aruasa and deputy CEO Francis Ogaro said they will look into the housing needs of doctors working at the hospital. "We highly regret this incident. The hospital board
is having discussions on how to provide housing for doctors on internship and other
medics." Dr Aruasa said some of the houses that would have been used by the doctors at the hospital had been condemned and declared unsafe for human habitation. "We will consider looking for houses for our doctors and staff. These will be guarded by our own security teams," he said. Mbugua's postmortem at MTRH showed his head was crushed with a blunt object. The report also indicated the right side
of his skull was crushed causing his brain to be soaked in blood. "We have been given results of the postmortem and we
are now in the process of planning his burial," his cousin George Kibanya said.
 The medic will be buried at his parents' home in Ha Matu, Kiambu county, as investigations into his death continue. Aruasa said the hospital will help the bereaved with funeral arrangements. [VIDEO] Thugs who killed MTRH intern stole food, mobile phone and TV - family Also read: Murdered MTRH doctor was hit on head with blunt object - postmortem        