NASA principal Kalonzo Musyoka has rubbished reports that his wife Pauline  is dead.  Speaking to the Star on the phone from Germany yesterday, Kalonzo said his wife is still alive and is undergoing treatment. He trashed rumours on social media about her death.  “My wife is receiving treatment. There is no cause for alarm,” said the former Vice President.  Read: Wetang'ula visits Kalonzo in Germany, Raila expected There are rumours on various social media platforms about her demise. Some social media users posted messages of condolence to Kalonzo’s family.  Pauline, a former employee of the Central Bank of Kenya, fell ill in 2015. She had been admitted to the Nairobi Hospital before being referred to a hospital in Germany for specialised treatment.  Kalonzo, who was NASA leader Raila Odinga’s running mate in the August 8 General Election, has been out of the political arena for several months. He has been looking after his wife in Germany.  Recently, NASA leaders including  principal Moses Wetang’ula and governors Josephat Nanok (Turkana) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) visited the Wiper Democratic Movement leader in Germany.  Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr urged Kenyans to stop speculation on Pauline’s health and instead join the family in praying for her quick recovery.  “Those circulating rumours about Pauline Musyoka should stop. She is well and we should all pray for her quick recovery,” he said. Wiper executive director Jared Siso termed the rumours devilish and malicious.  Siso told Kenyans the rumours are hearsay that does not deserve any attention.  “The malicious rumours are from enemies of the family. They are ill-intentioned,” he said. “We hereby inform Kenyans that contrary to the wishes of doomsayers, Mrs Kalonzo is alive and recuperating. It is unfortunate that certain elements in society would derive pleasure in spreading malicious propaganda on the health of the spouse of their political nemesis,” Siso said. Click here for the latest political news