Judges have been urged to jealously guard the independence of the courts, despite criticism and attacks. Supreme Court Judge Isaac Lenaola yesterday said the verbal attacks immediately after the nullification of the August 8 presidential election undermine the courts’ independence. He said a court decision should not please the system but the Constitution under which judges took an oath. “Judicial independence in its widest sense is a precious pillar of any democracy. Its loss in any significant way portends the collapse of the democracy. We must guard it with all our might,” Justice Lenaola said. He spoke during the ongoing East African Magistrates and Judges’ Association Conference in Kigali, Rwanda. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a scathing attack on the Supreme Court judges after they invalidated his win and threatened to ‘fix’ them. Uhuru called the judges ‘crooks’ and accused them of presiding over a ‘ judicial coup’. The court on Monday, however, in a unanimous verdict, dismissed another petition challenging his win in the disputed October 26 fresh presidential election. Chief Justice David Maraga is also attending the Kigali conference, which ends today. “The government is not always the villain when it comes to violating judicial independence. There are cases of private entities in commercial courts infringing on judicial independence,” Lenaola said. Interference from colleagues “Sometimes even the administration of the Judiciary itself is to blame, with unwarranted transfers, trumped-up complaints against judicial officers and so on.  “What of interference from colleagues? How many times do we seek favours from each other? Are superior Courts such as the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court immune from peer pressure? “Do we referee each other to the extent that a Divisional head demands particular approaches to decisions in a division? What of principal judges and heads of courts? Do we prefect our juniors to the extent that in seeking favours they even consult us before making hard decisions?”  His presentation was titled ‘Balancing Judicial Independence with Judicial Responsibility’.  Kenya will host next year’s meeting, which is held annually to deliberate on ways of making the delivery of justice more efficient.