The Ministry of Education yesterday de-registered St Theresa Girls Senior School in Nakuru COunty for involvement of malpractice in the KCSE examination. In a letter to the principal, the deregistration will take effect on December 1. "Following the examination malpractice which occurred in your school on or about November 9 and November 10, it has been decided that the registration as provided in the Basic Education Act of 2013 be revoked," the letter reads. According to the council, only four cases of malpractice were reported in the first week. The incident involved a principal and Chemistry teacher who were arraigned in court on November 9 for sending leaked Chemistry questions to a principal in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The headteacher allegedly received the questions from Jerry Ndikolo from Sawagongo Secondary School Speaking at Aga Khan High School where he witnessed the opening of the Mathematics Paper 2 yesterday morning, Education CS Fred Matiang’i, said the government won't hesitate to deregister private schools, which are found to have attempted to engage in examinations malpractices. He added the Ministry of Education and the Teachers Service Commission would take disciplinary action against center managers or officials involved in a similar practice. He said students found to engage in examinations malpractice risked being excluded from the examinations altogether instead of waiting to disqualify them during the release of the examinations after marking. He asked candidates to take individual responsibility while sitting for the entire examinations. Matiang’i further commended the Kenya Private Schools Association (KPSA) citing it had given moral and logistical support to the government to ensure the credibility and integrity of the examinations. On Friday, a student of Our Lady of Mercy girls, Shauri Moyo, Nairobi county was found with a phone at the school and was arraigned in court yesterday. In Wajir, a male candidate was arrested with a mobile phone purported to have been used to send examination questions to a student in Nairobi. In the third case a student in Langata Private center was found to be in possession of unauthorized examination material. He was arraigned in court on 10th November and released on bond. In the first week of the examination, the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) points out the heavy rains posed a challenge, however security agencies airlifted the examinations in parts of Northern Kenya where heavy rains cut off schools. The council chair George Magoha attested that the challenges witnessed had not affected the examination credibility.        