NHIF members can now visit any listed health facility for outpatient services, but the fund will only pay for four visits annually per card. Previously, members were restricted. They were supposed to furnish NHIF with a list of hospitals they prefer at the beginning of each year.  “In line with these changes, members will no longer co-pay as was previously the case and will continue enjoying the same benefit package,” CEO Geoffrey Mwangi said in a statement yesterday. This means NHIF members will be fully treated at the cost of NHIF. However, most health facilities will only be given Sh1,500 compensation per visit. Some high-cost hospitals have been allocated Sh4,000 per visit and members may have to make additional payments there. Mwangi said the four visits limit was decided after a study showed most people make outpatient visits less than four times a year, unless they have chronic conditions, like cancer. He said the fund will continue paying for dialysis, chemotherapy, MRI and other scans, covered separately. The CEO said the changes are part of the fund’s response to the needs of its members as well as the need to adapt to changing market dynamics. “This will promote the aspiration of universal healthcare coverage with a view to facilitate access to affordable, sustainable, equitable and quality social health insurance,” Mwangi said. The Kenya Association of Private Hospitals said they are happy with the arrangement. “The only thing that changes is the mode of payment to service providers. Members will continue to enjoy the same benefits, with more portabilty,” Dr Abdi mohammed, the association’s secretary, said. NHIF registers members from both the formal and informal sector. A member must be a Kenyan citizen aged 18 years and above and have a monthly income of at least Sh1,000. Membership for those in the formal sector is compulsory, it’s voluntary for those in the informal sector and retirees. The scheme had 24 million members in June this year. This includes 6.5 million principal contributors, while the rest are their dependents. Health facilities must be accredited by NHIF before offering services to beneficiaries; they claim reimbursements thereafter. Mwangi urged health facilities that are yet to sign the contract to do so by Novemeber 1. Those who don’t sign should not offer services. NHIF members can access the designated list of contracted hospitals and declared healthcare facilities by visiting any NHIF service point or via NHIF website and social media pages. They can call the toll- free service line on 0800-720601.