Kenya has jumped 12 spots in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business 2018 report. Kenya now ranks at position 80, from 92 last year, the country’s best performance in 15 years. The report shows that the country’s good performance was driven by reforms made in starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, access to credit, paying taxes and trading across borders. The annual global ranking, which compared the business environment in 190 countries, showed that of the sub-Saharan countries, Kenya came in third position after Mauritius and Rwanda, ranked 25 and 41 respectively. Kenya has moved 53 positions over the last three years. “Our goal is to be ranked amongst the top 50 countries in the Ease of Doing Business in the next two years,” Mohamed said. New Zealand emerged as the country with the most ease in conducting business, followed by Singapore and Denmark while Somalia emerged the worst, followed by Eriteria and Venezuela. India was the most improved economy jumping 30 ranks to hit the top 100 mark. Kenya delivered the highest number of business-related reforms in the 10 sub-indices where the electricity access index rose 12.25 per cent, getting credit was up 5 per cent while the starting a business index increased 2.67 per cent. “In the past, to set up a company, you needed to go to lawyers and register companies and now, courtesy of the new Companies Act, today one can set up a company online with a minimal amount of requirement,” Industrialization Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed said. He added that the new ranking was set to further increase foreign direct investment, which, according to the Kenya Investment Authority, rose to $2 billion as at December 2016, compared to $390 million in 2013. Improvements in global rankings are intended to increase the level of efficiency for businesses and increase the level of both local and foreign direct investment, which has a positive impact on job creation. The report shows that Kenya made starting a business easier by merging procedures required to start-up and formally operate a business. Kenya also made dealing with construction permits less expensive by eliminating fees for clearances from the National Environment Management Authority and the National Construction Authority. Other reforms include passing legislation that allows the sharing of both positive and negative credit information and establishing guidelines for the treatment of historical data, strengthening minority investor protections by clarifying ownership and control structures and the implementation of iTax.