Kenya Sevens have targeted podium finishes at next year’s Commonwealth Games and Rugby World Cup Sevens. Team manager Eric Ogweno expressed confidence with the squad at their disposal and is optimistic they can reach the top three positions in both tournaments. “We have a good history in the Rugby World Cup Sevens. We reached the semifinals in the past two events and we need to maintain the same standards in next year’s event in San Fransisco,” he added. On the Commonwealth Games slated for Gold Coast in April, Ogweno said the team needs to make an improvement after coming up short in Glasgow in 2014 and New Delhi in 2010. In Glasgow, under South African Paul Treu, Kenya bowed at the quarter-finals after losing 19-7 to New Zealand and thus failed to enter the medal bracket. In New Delhi, with Benjamin Ayimba at the helm, Kenya were bundled out in the quarter-finals by Australia 27-5 . Ogweno added that with a little mental improvement, the team can achieve their set goals. “Normally, when you get to the quarterfinals, the teams are evenly matched in terms of talent and it boils down to who has the mental strength, desire and better execution,” added Ogweno. He observed that the squad had embarked on a rigorous strength and conditioning programme and are therefore well prepared for the two tournaments as well as the World Sevens Series which kickoff in Dubai next month. “The boys are in good shape. They are fitter than last season, well conditioned and credit must go to Geoffrey Kimani who has done an excellent job in keeping the boys in good shape and ensuring that this season we will not see instances of players having lapses of concentration,” added Ogweno. Stand-in skipper Oscar Ayodi said they have set a target of 100 points at the World Sevens Series. Kenya amassed 63 points last year to finish a disappointing 12th but Ayodi expects improvement this year. “100 points is a realistic target. It means we are scoring 10 points for each tournament which is attainable,” added Ayodi.