Western Stima Chief Executive Officer Laban Jobita has challenged the playing unit to fight for their status in the SportPesa Premier League in their final match against Chemelil Sugar tomorrow at Chemelil Sports Complex.  With the two bottom teams set to be relegated, Stima risk being dropped to the National Super League if they succumb to the millers in their final game of the season as they are currently placed 17th in a 18-member league. Jobita called on the players to face Chemelil with confidence and contest for the three points which will save them if Thika United surrender to the visiting Bandari. The CEO disclosed that after their match against Ulinzi Stars two weeks ago, the management of the club increased the players winning bonuses in a bid to motivate them in the remaining matches. The increment seemed to work miracles in their next game where they silenced Posta Rangers 1-0 over the weekend. Jobita said their last match will serve as a final for them and called on the players to fight for their place.  “We will approach the match like a final and my message to the boys is defend your place in the league. We do not want to subject them to pressure by promising them hefty monetary values in case they beat the axe. We just want them to be calm, have confidence and give their best. After our match against Ulinzi, we increased their winning bonuses for the good job they had done before in the last eight matches where they lost one to Gor.We beat Rangers in our last match and I call upon the boys to exhibit the confidence they had against Rangers.” Elsewhere, Palos head coach Hesbon Nyabinge has called on Football Kenya Federation to assign their best officials in the final nationwide rounds. The development came after the match pitting Palos and Vihiga United on Wednesday witnessed a controversial penalty awarded to Vihiga, where Patrick Okullo made a successful conversion to hand Vihiga a 1-0 win. Nyabinge feels the federation should be keen on the remaining matches as poor calls may deny deserving teams crucial wins