As President Uhuru Kenyatta takes the oath of office for a second and last term in office today, power struggles have rocked his backyard – Mt Kenya – over 2022 succession politics. A rift has emerged in the region ahead of the highly anticipated overhaul of the Cabinet by the President. Area leaders are divided over whether Mwangi Kiunjuri should be retained at the Devolution docket. Kiunjuri has said Deputy President William Ruto will be backed by the Mt Kenya electorate to succeed Uhuru. At one point, he clashed with former governors William Kabogo (Kiambu) and Peter Munya (Meru) over Uhuru’s succession. “Come 2022, Ruto will be elected as President of this Republic with Central Kenya leading the pack to the last man,” the former Laikipia East MP said. Early this year, Uhuru prevailed upon Kiunjuri not to resign and vie for the Laikipia governor seat where he comes from and continue serving in his administration. “Please, people of Laikipia, I urge you to release Kiunjuri to work for the country because it needs him. I want to be surrounded by strong people during my next term as President,” Uhuru said during his tour to Laikipia. Kiunjuri rose to the Cabinet in December 2015 and has since been entrenching the Jubilee agenda countrywide. He has defended Uhuru’s administration against accusations from the opposition. The Star has learnt he is being groomed to possibly vie as Ruto’s running-mate in the 2022 General Election. An MP who sought anonymity says the 2022 succession game plan is being drafted. “The truth of the matter is that when the dust settles, I can tell you for free and you can take this to the bank that this is all about 2022 succession politics,” the legislator said. “Everyone looks at the tallest tree in the forest and there is a plan to cut this tree. Let us just wait and see”. Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina has locked horns with a section of MPs from the region on whether Kiunjuri should be reappointed. About 16 MPs from the region took the battle to Maina’s doorstep, saying that he does not have the mandate to advice the President on whom to appoint for the top job. The lawmakers led by Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru told the media at a city hotel that the senator did not consult the region’s leadership before ‘purporting to speak on their behalf regarding Kiunjuri’s re-appointment’.