Chief Justice David Maraga has dismissed claims that Supreme Court judges have been denied extra security. Reuters ran a story on Tuesday alleging the government had denied a request by Supreme Court judges for extra security after DCJ Philomena Mwilu's bodyguard was shot. The agency said this prevented her from holding a hearing that could have delayed last Thursday's presidential election. The article reported that the justices demanded their security be publicly guaranteed given the tensions over the election or else they would refuse to attend hearings, the source said. It said a source at judiciary had told them in Kenya ordinary criminals don't attack government vehicles driven by armed government agents who know how to shoot.  The source said treating the shooting as a regular crime angered the judges, who demanded they get extra security. Read: Supreme Court judges denied extra security after shooting - source But Maraga on Wednesday termed the report untrue, saying the Inspector General of Police has enhanced judges' security. "Our attention has been drawn to a report by Reuters news agency claiming that the Government has turned down a request by the Supreme Court of Kenya for extra security for its judges.  "The Office of the Chief Justice wishes to state that this report is untrue. To the contrary, the Inspector General of Police has in fact enhanced the security of Supreme Court judges," he said on Twitter. According to Reuters, Interior ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka said security for all judges was enhanced in the wake of the shooting. "If anybody is telling you to the contrary, they are not telling the truth," he told Reuters. The government said the bodyguard's shooting was a robbery rather than an attempt to intimidate the judges, whom Kenyatta had branded as "crooks" after they voided the August election. A bodyguard to the Deputy Chief Justice was shot and seriously injured in Nairobi two days to the repeat election. Details
of the incident remained scanty but the Star established that the
police officer was shot in Hurligham Estate and was rushed to Nairobi
Women's Hospital. It was reported that the attackers made away with his gun.