IPOA has completed its investigations into the killing of baby Samantha Pendo of Nyalenda slum in Kisumu and Stephanie Moraa of Mathare in Nairobi. The two were killed in the aftermath of the August 8 general election as police quelled post election protests. The Independent Policing and Oversight Authority has forwarded the file to DPP Keriako Tobiko for directions. CEO Joel Mambonga did not give details of the findings in his statement to the press on Monday. "IPOA has forwarded the investigation findings together with the recommendations to the ODPP for review and direction." IPOA's statement did not specify if it had identified suspects in the two deaths. It did not mention any other investigations into election-related violence. Asked what IPOA had recommended to the prosecutor's office regarding the two deaths, spokesman Dennis Oketch told Reuters: "It's a matter which will most likely end up in court. We don't want to give any information that can become prejudicial. We will wait for the [prosecutor's] review." Pendo, who died aged six months, sustained injuries arising from an alleged assault by police officers who stormed their house on August 15. She suffered severe head injuries, including an open cracked scalp and gaping fractures, and a postmortem established she died from internal bleeding. See: [VIDEO] Baby Pendo’s skull was cracked – pathologist Moraa, nine, was allegedly shot dead by police while playing at the balcony of their rented house in Mathare Area 2 on August 12. The autopsy revealed a high calibre bullet tore through the the standard four pupil's chest and exited from the back near the heart. IPOA has also forwarded to the DPP its findings on brutality meted on the University of Nairobi students. The students were assaulted within the university's premises along Lower State House road on September 28. The police oversight body said a number of them sustained physical injuries. Anti-riots officers were captured on camera assaulting the students at their halls of residence following protest against the arrest of Embakasi East MP Babu Owino. Batons and clubs wielding officers were captured in the video clip raiding hostels, libraries and lecture halls where they beat up students. There were claims that some female students were sexually assaulted. The assault on students attracted public outcry and condemnation by human rights activists and lawyers. Read: UoN students, staff threaten to protest after police assault at varsity Also see: [VIDEO] IPOA probing police assault on UoN students Mambonga said IPOA also submitted the report to the National Police Service Commission for disciplinary action against the responsible officers. Normally, officers in-charge of anti-riots platoons are personally held accountable for omissions of their subordinates.