Three leaders among them a Cabinet Secretary has
called upon opposition to stop divisive politics and instead focus of politics
of peace, love and unity. The leaders led by Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, Kieni MP
Kanini Kega and his Mathira counterpart Rigathi Gachagua urged opposition led
by Nasa leader Raila Odinga to stop politics which are chaotic and instead
preach peace. “We would not like the return of 2007/2008 violence.
The politics of dividing Kenyans along tribal lines should not be accepted,” He
said. Gachagua urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure
police protect lives and properties of Kenyans. “Raila should know that you cannot ascend to power
through blood- shed. The opposition are killing their own people so that it can
be seen to be like the police who have done so. Kenyans are not going to fight
unto each other because of you,” Added Kega. Kega also urged Jubilee supporters not to revenge
adding that nobody is above the law.  “Raila should also be charged in the court of law.  He is not above the law. Kenyans have been
peaceful until he returned from US tour. We shall not allow him to bring
anarchy in this country,” Kieni MP added. Nyeri politician Wachira Keen told Raila to retire
from politics and stop misusing the youth to cause mayhem. They were speaking at Nature Park area in Kieni constituency,
Nyeri on Sunday where they attended a graduation ceremony of 100 boys who have
undergone rite of passage. The three leaders also emphasized the need to maintain
culture of one’s community. Kega, Gachagua and Keen said the Kikuyu culture
should be safeguarded well and be taught to youths so that they can be
responsible citizens in the country. Kiama Kia Ma group were one of the sponsors of the initiation
programme where the boys underwent the initiation process with teachers from
church and community. The leaders earlier attended Irigithathi Catholic
Church in the same constituency where they urged Christians to pray for the
country to ensure there is peace.   Ends…  