There were murmurs and giggling on Friday night during the NASA fundraiser led by Raila Odinga to help families who had lost their loved ones to police brutality when the Master of Ceremonies announced contributions from a vocal Luo Nyanza governor who sent his personal contribution of Sh50,000. Some MPs who had contributed more openly 'congratulated' the governor, saying it was his first time to contribute Sh50,000 in a harambee. “I knew he would send Sh10,000 kama kawaida (as always) but he has today proved me wrong,” said one of the MPs. === Bungoma residents are in shock from an audit revelation that former Governor Kenneth Lusaka's county administration borrowed Sh3.9 million from the Bungoma Referral Hospital, which is yet to be repaid. Residents are still wondering how the county ‘borrowed’ the funds during the 2015-16 financial year. But, according to auditor general Edward Ouko there is no tangible plan to repay it, hence constraining the hospital from delivering essential services. The motive for the ‘borrowing’ remains a mystery, since Bungoma was among the counties where millions of unused shillings in their Central Bank of Kenya accounts was returned to the National Treasury at the end of the financial year. === Recently, Corridors learned that the NASA leadership was planning to announce additional products that should be boycotted by their followers. NASA had urged their supporters to boycott products from Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside Dairies, claiming that they had propelled President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto towards re-clinching their positions. Our moles are querying why NASA backtracked in making the major announcement that could ensure that the companies, which they accuse of supporting UhuRuto, suffered severe punishment from the electorate. Corridors have learned that there was a major split among the leaders over the decision of additional products that should be boycotted by their supporters, hence halting the announcement. === A governor from Western has come under fire from a football team in his county. Reason? The county boss is said to have become a miser and has refused to allocate money to the team that has attracted a huge fan base, thanks to its excellent performance. Players are crying over poor pay even after working hard throughout the season and if the said politician doesn't do anything, come next season, they might have no one left in the team. Most players have threatened to leave the club if the stakeholders don't heed to their cries. Life has become expensive and they need to pay for rent and fend for their families.