Bungoma's LSK chapter has urged MCAs to pass the People's Assembly motion tabled by NASA principals as soon as it reaches them. The motion that has been passed in Siaya, Homa Bay and Vihiga seeks to annul President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory and protect devolution. Amos Makokha, chairman of Law Society of Kenya's chapter in the county, termed the move the best for Kenya. Makokha noted the constitution clearly states that all sovereign power remains with the people and that leaders and politicians only exercise it on their behalf. "As things stand in our country at the moment, it is only by establishing people's assemblies that the voices of marginalised communities will be heard," he told the press at Members' Club in Bungoma town on Saturday. "We are at crossroads...we have a president who has not been accepted by all the electorate. This is not good." He said majority of Kenyans heeded NASA's call to boycott the election  "That is why there are calls to resist. This won't be a solution as the country will be split," he noted. "This issue of bunge la wananchi (people's parliament) is so timely so I urge Bungoma MCAs and the rest to pass it as soon as it arrives at the county assembly." Bungoma's clerk has received the motion and it is expected that it will be passed on Tuesday afternoon. Related: NASA to expand boycott, firms must feel pinch - Senator Outa Makokha said residents will use the assemblies to raise issues which will then be addressed as the national government has "refused" to listen to them. He regretted that "Kenyans are disgruntled with the way the government operates in every part of this country". "For instance, because the national government thinks it's the one in control, it has refused to release money to counties for operations," he said, adding NASA counties are suffering most. The chairman said the government is analysing and handling matters wrongly and that the people are suffering. Makokha noted money collected as revenue is not for the national government to misuse but for development. "County assemblies have passed their budgets and solely rely on money they must receive from the government. Without it they can't do anything." Regarding the National Resistance Movement and products boycott, the official said it should not be taken lightly as the organisations will make significant losses. "The truth of the matter is that safaricom has announced a Sh20 billion loss in two weeks, which is a big loss for any company in Africa and and the world.," he said. "Brookside had overtaken KCC as the number one milk distributor in the country but it might even shut down. It has not announced its losses but we know it is suffering greatly." Makokha noted the boycott call has been heeded in Bungoma's major towns. "I have talked to a few Airtel distributors who have said they are making a killing from the boycott of Safaricom. They said they are not able to meet the demand for Airtel services." Raila migrated to Airtel on November 7 and denied claims of witch hunt, saying their aim is to entrench electoral justice in the country by punishing perpetrators. Deputy President William Ruto had accused the NASA principal of scheming to extort money from companies through its boycott plan. More on this: Raila now ditches Safaricom for Airtel, denies move is witch hunt Also read: Raila's boycott call is criminal, amounts to extortion, says Ruto      