   A Cabinet Secretary who is expecting to be on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s chopping list is said to be planning a month-long vacation to the Seychelles, immediately the new Cabinet is named. The minister, Corridors have learnt, has passed the information to handlers to prepare them for what to expect in a week’s time. One of the handlers confided to us that the senior government official has for the last one month been spending ample time on the Internet trying to scout for the best holiday destinations. *****   Still on matters Cabinet, a number of immediate former Members of Parliament are scheming day and night to catch the eye of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to consider them in the fresh lineup. Two of them, according to those in the know, have taken their lobbying skills a notch higher by approaching the children of the two leaders to at least assist them to lobby for the competitive positions. President Uhuru is expected to make big changes in his Cabinet once he is sworn in on Tuesday next week.     *****   A row is brewing at Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress party after a section of Kenyans petitioned against the appointment of renowned political analyst and publisher Barrack Muluka as the ANC secretary general. Corridors have learnt that the petitioners want the Registrar of Political Parties, Lucy Ndung’u, to revoke his appointment. They are arguing that Muluka’s appointment was not procedural. ANC, which is one of the four parties under NASA, is embroiled in a tug-of-war on whether Muluka should be retained at the party or not. If the petition sails through, Mudavadi, who is also a NASA co-principal, is expected to repeat the process of searching for the party’s SG.  *****   The feud between Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his deputy James Nyoro has not been taken lightly by area residents. Internal wrangles over management of the county government has not gone down well with some leaders in the county, who are now calling for a truce between the two leaders. Some leaders were overheard at a city restaurant saying that if the in-fighting does not cease, they will initiate a petition to get rid of the duo.  *****   NASA MPs on Wednesday visited families affected by police brutality in Kibera, Nairobi. The lawmakers, led by Gladys Wanga and Millie Odhiambo, claimed that 54 NASA supporters have succumbed to gunshot wounds. But Corridors moles are querying why the team did not visit the families of traders who were injured and some killed by irate NASA supporters recently. The moles termed the visit hypocritical.