Kenya will take longer to join the main Global Financial Centre Index list, according to Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. The CS has said that there is still "much to be done" to ensure that the Nairobi International Financial Centre is fully operational. The NIFC was fourth in Africa to feature in the prestigious index this year, joining Johannesburg, Casablanca and Mauritius. But this year's index, released late September, shows the yet-to-be-established NIFC was assessed 61 times in the last 24 months, way below the required minimum of 515 times. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said although the government has identified a space in Upper Hill where the hub will be hosted, it will take a bit longer for collaborating institutions like the International Arbitration Court to be set up.  ''The NIFC secretariat, which operates from Treasury, is working with other regulatory bodies to have the centre in place as soon as possible," he told the press. "However, much remains to be done, with the government expected to come up with rules on issues such as tax treatment of companies and deals within the finance hub." Late in July, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the NIFC Bill into law, paving way for a legal framework to facilitate and support the development of an efficient and globally competitive financial services sector in Kenya. The Act also established the Nairobi Financial Centre Authority whose mandate is to establish and maintain an efficient operating framework to attract and retain firms. Read: Uhuru assents to Knec, trade and 5 other bills Also read: Will the Nairobi financial hub turn Kenya into a tax haven? Other functions include developing and recommending strategies and incentive structures in collaboration with agencies to attract firms to the financial hub.  The authority is yet to be established, more than three months since the bill was signed into law.  Kenya has been planning to set up the hub since 2008, and was overtaken by Morocco, which set up its Casablanca Financial City in 2011 and joined the Global Financial Centre Index in 2014. In the September's index, Casablanca Financial City was ranked position 35 globally with 665 points, followed by Johannesburg which improved 11 positions to rank 48 globally with 648 points. Mauritius took the third position in Africa with 629 points, but ranked position 76 in the world.  London was ranked the best in the world for 22 times running, with 780 points, dropping by two points the previous year. New York took second place while Hong Kong dethroned Singapore for the third position with 744 points  The ball in now in Kenya's court to consolidate at least 500 points by July next year in order to be featured in the list.  This year, a total of 108 centres were researched. Financial centres in the main index increased from 88 to 92 with the addition of Wellington, Buenos Aires, Hamburg, and Chengdu from the associate centres list. Merit is based on five key areas of competitiveness - business environment, human capital, infrastructure, financial centre development and reputation.  