Hotel and restaurant owners yesterday denied Governor Mike Sonko’s assertion that they are responsible for illegal dumping in the city centre. The Hotel Keepers Association insstead accused the county of failure to provide garbage bins and trucks to collect and transport waste to the Dandora dumpsite. “The defunct city council used to provide bins and trucks would come to collect the garbage by 5am. That no longer happens,” the association’s chief executive Mike Macharia said. On Tuesday, Sonko blamed hotel owners for the mounds of garbage in the city centre. He said hoteliers have been dumping waste at unauthorised places. Macharia dismissed those claims. He said all hotels have hired private companies to collect and dispose off their garbage. Sonko instructed county askaris to arrest anyone found dumping at unauthorised places. There has been an uproar over the filthy state of downtown Nairobi, where piles of garbage lie uncollected in most backstreets. Sonko, through the Sonko Rescue Team, hired about 1,000 youths in August to clean the city in a Ng’arisha Jiji initiative. The programme has not been sustained. Bavaria restaurant managing director Daniel Munene said private garbage collectors are sometimes unreliable. “They say their vehicles are broken down and sometimes the lorries are too small to carry away all the waste,” Munene said. “The county should borrow a leaf from the defunct council and provide bins and trucks to collect garbage because it is their responsibility to ensure the city is clean,” Munene added. Private garbage collectors have shifted the blame to small eateries within the Central Business District. Waste and Environment Management Association of Kenya chairman Chege Kariuki said most small hotels, shops and residential buildings within the CBD have not contracted them to collect their waste. “You realise that the upper parts of the town are generally clean. It is because the Five-Star hotels in those areas have hired private firms to collect their garbage,” Kariuki said.  Kariuki said some hotels have contracted dubious collectors. “We suspect some of them to be responsible for the illegal dumping,” Kariuki said. Sonko said some hoteliers pay street children to pick up garbage from the back doors of the hotels at night and dump them on the streets.