The October 26 repeat presidential election has polarised Kenya and exposed its deep tribal rifts, a US election observation mission in Kenya has concluded. In its preliminary report, the Carter Center said rather than consolidating the country, the repeat vote deeply split the nation along tribal lines. The Carter Center, which was in the August 8 polls led by former US Secretary of State John Kerry, is now calling for dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga. “Kenya is in dire need of dialogue and reconciliation,” the Center said. It said this is the only long-term way to address the underlying ethnic and tribal tension that resurface during every electoral cycle. After the August 8 polls, the Carter Center ran into trouble with NASA, after it endorsed the election that was later nullified by the Supreme Court. The court cited illegalities and irregularities. While endorsing the IEBC vote tallying and results transmission in the 79 polling stations they visited, the new report has not outrightly endorsed the poll that has been petitioned in court. The Carter Center said the credibility of an election rests not only on the technical aspects of its conduct, but also on respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in a conducive political and security environment. “Every democratic exercise comprises numerous institutions and actors throughout the preelection, the election day, and the post-election period, all of which affect the transparency, inclusiveness, accountability, and competitiveness of the election,” the report states. For the first time, the IEBC was also a subject of strong criticism in the report. The Center said the IEBC continually failed to meet its constitutional obligation of transparency, which further affected an already fragile public confidence and trust in its work. Despite urging by diverse stakeholders, the Center said, the IEBC did not communicate clearly about the status of preparations, challenges and plans for addressing those challenges proactively. They also said Raila’s withdrawal from the repeat presidential election, resignation of IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe, calls for election boycott and uncertain and tense circumstances in which the polls took place negatively, affected the IEBC’s preparations.  