The State deployed undercover agents to track opposition leader Raila Odinga’s (pictured)movements while in the United States of America. Corridors understand that various officers were dispatched to Washington days to Raila’s tour of the superpower and closely monitored his political and private engagements. While it is normal for the State to monitor operations of opposition politicians, the decision to fly out a sizeable number of officials at the taxpayer’s cost is puzzling. The highly secretive team is said to have also been snooping on the NASA leader’s visit to Germany, where he met his co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka.  *****  A Cabinet Secretary, reportedly on the purge list, has of late stepped up lobbying to pressure President Uhuru Kenyatta to retain him if the Supreme Court upholds his contested October 26 victory. The embattled CS has been hosting delegations of both professionals and opinion leaders at his Nairobi and Central Kenya homes. The meetings were prompted by a decision by a faction of political heavyweights from his tribe to indicate a head- hunting search for his replacement in the Cabinet. In one of the conventions, the minister is said to have besieged the influential group to stop scouting for his successor and instead support him for another term. The CS was shocked when elders from his community turned down his request for an endorsement session. ***** Vocal Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny, known for shooting bold and fearlessly, has ruffled feathers among influential political figures from Deputy President William Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard. The former political adviser to President Uhuru Kenyatta, has not shied off from speaking his mind. He recently shocked Ruto’s backers when he called for a State reception for NASA leader Raila Odinga when he returns from the USA tomorrow. A firebrand Jubilee honcho and the DP’s close ally was overheard questioning Kutuny’s loyalty to the ruling party and vowed that the MP would be in for a rude shock when normalcy returns after the ongoing political crisis. “We are watching him closely, take my word,” the DP’s ally bragged at Parliament Buildings.  *****  Just why was Attorney General Githu Muigai’s amicus curiae application rejected by the Supreme Court? Did the snub have anything to do with the AG’s “sluggish” defence of the Judiciary? Social media was yesterday abuzz with the David Maraga-led Bench’s surprise move to rebuff the government chief legal adviser. Many Kenyans made fun of the move, while others were on the loose with conspiracy theories as to what could have informed the rare decision. NASA supporters ridiculed the AG, saying the decision was a lesson to him.