A Homa Bay court has ordered the sealing of all election materials used during the August 8 governor race. Justice Joseph Karanja ruled all ballot boxes containing cast ballot papers be sealed within five days from yesterday.  This follows an application filed by former governor hopeful Oyugi Magwanga and his running mate Joshua Orero challenging the victory of incumbent Cyprian Awiti and his deputy Hamilton Orata. “The petitioners are granted an order to access the original electoral forms and documents on a ‘read only’ basis,” reads part of the ruling. “They may also inspect the ballot boxes and place their own seals on ballot boxes and further download information from the KIEMS kits used in the election.”  The court also ordered that scrutiny and recount of votes be undertaken at a later date during the hearing. Karanja said scrutiny and recount will be undertaken based on the polling stations mentioned by Magwanga in his application. He also ruled the exercise will be undertaken under the supervision of the Deputy Registrar of the High Court in Homa Bay under the observation of the agents of both the petitioner and respondents. Each party will have three agents in the exercise. “The exercise will commence on a date the court may direct or be agreed by the parties.  The court shall abide by the outcome of the petition,” Karanja said. Magwanga’s lawyer, Andrew Muma, said he had filed the application to be effected in many polling stations in Karachuonyo constituency.  Other constituencies include Kasipul, Kabondo Kasipul and Homa Bay Town. “We suspect the anomalies occurred in many polling stations in Karachuonyo constituency. There were also issues in the above mentioned constituencies,” Muma said. According to Awiti’s lawyer, Steve Biko, the ruling is not cause for worry. “As we speak today, there is nothing like scrutiny and recount. It can only be done during the hearing, but when the court feels it is necessary,” Biko said. The hearing will be on November 14. Awiti was declared winner with 210,173 votes against Magwanga’s 189,060 votes. But Magwanga said there were electoral malpractices during the tabulation of votes. “Awiti shouldn’t start celebrating yet, since the results had glaring anomalies. We’re seeking justice, because we believe Awiti lost, but was declared winner through cooked figures,” he said in August. Magwanga claimed some presiding officers were recalled and compromised to sign Forms 37A a week after the General Election was held. He had contested as an independent candidate. At the time, Magwanga said he and his team were gathering evidence to back their claims Awiti was rigged in. Magwanga said some of his agents were frustrated during the voting.