There are two scenarios if it is true that Mwingi North Member of Parliament Nzengu Mushimi applied for the East African Legislative Assembly position. Either the Wiper leader and National Super Alliance co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka wants to come to Parliament and maybe become the Minority Leader in the House to propel himself in his 2022 presidential game plan. Kalonzo maybe wants to shield his son Kenneth Kalonzo from stiff Eala campaigns in the House and stand for the Mwingi North parliamentary seat. Either way, it is Wiper party's choice since it has one slot for the Eala. They can decide on whomever they want. If Kalonzo comes to Parliament, I think he will add value because he is a seasoned politician. He can also become the Official Leader of the Opposition, the leader of the Minority side in the House, according to the Constitution. By coming to Parliament, maybe Kalonzo wants to be at same level as his friend and NASA co-principal Senator Moses Wetang'ula, the Senate Minority Leader. Read: I can't join sinking Jubilee ship, Kalonzo tells 'panicking' UhuRuto Kalonzo might want to be the National Assembly Minority Leader to run his party matters and the coalition’s affairs from this status. However, we would like to know the motive of Mushimi’s decision to apply for the Eala position because it is very ridiculous for a sitting MP in the National Assembly to apply for Eala. In terms of prestige and resources they Eala members make the Kenyan MP more senior. The Eala members are voted for by legislators of every East African Parliament. The law is very clear Mushimi must resign as Mwingi North MP before the Eala election date on December 14, 2017, if he wants to join the regional Assembly. He cannot be voted for if he has not resigned. No sitting member of Parliament of the respective countries can be voted for by the Eala. Related: Drop son from EALA job bid, Kalonzo told However, he will have to gamble because if he resigns it will not be automatic that he wins the Eala seat. If he resigns for Kalonzo to come to Parliament, it will be of great value especially due to his vast political experience. The shenanigans we have been witnessing about the NASA affiliate parties not working together will be history. At least the opposition will not only have a leader in the House but also representing them in the House Business Committee. The writer is the National Assembly Leader of the Majority Read: Join Uhuru, Jubilee leaders tell Kalonzo after Raila pulls out of poll Click here for the latest political news