When Raila Odinga came back from his US tour a week ago, he was given a welcome worthy of a hero of the Second Liberation in a weak neo-colonial state that has become increasingly scared of the popular power of the masses. I say ‘weak’ because Moi’s regime was equally encapsulated in a neo-colonial state, but it was strong. It was strong in the sense that, though very repressive and ruthless, it knew how to manipulate its hegemony and how to withdraw from confrontation with the popular masses demanding more democratic dispensation. Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime seems to be bent on only one thing as a way of asserting its authority: brute power of the state when challenged by the popular masses. This is dangerous. It can easily invite those more qualified to command, the army, when least expected. But in Kenya this may not happen that easily since a smart army should also be concerned how it handles the popular masses, else it dissipates itself in unresolvable internal contradictions the Egyptian way. Zimbabwe, however, has so far seen a masterpiece army coup justified as a corrective measure in removing a stubborn dictator to pave way for democratic governance. We shall wait and see how this phenomenon evolves over time, and whether it is a lesson the Kenya army, currently riddled with ethnic contradictions, can rise up to, as the owl of Minerva, and perform some feats we never expected from it. But let us go back to the Raila welcome. NASA had announced that it would mobilise one million people to meet Raila at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport when he arrived. There is really nothing wrong with that since a smaller crowd, but still immensely big by the standards then, had met Kenneth Matiba when he arrived from London a few decades ago. I would therefore have thought that the IG of police, Brig Boinnet or the acting interior Cabinet Secretary, Matiang’i, would simply have called the NASA leaders to work out the logistics of Raila’s welcome and arrival. If I were either of the two, I would have proceeded like this. Boinnet, on a phone call to the Hon Musalia Mudavadi, said, “Mheshimiwa, good morning. This is the IG Boinnet speaking.” Mudavadi: “Yes, IG. A very good morning and glad to hear from you. In fact, we just passed each other on Uhuru Highway. Little did I know that we would talk so soon.” Boinnet: “Yes my brother. I was calling you to see whether we could put our heads together to plan the welcoming of the former Prime Minister, as you announced yesterday. I see a problem with a million people congregating at the airport. Can we meet and figure this out?” Mudavadi: “That’s perfect IG. We definitely need your cooperation in this. Would 2 o’clock this afternoon do? I will come with three of my colleagues. How do you see that?” Boinnet: “Perfect. See you then.” Unfortunately this very civilised conversation never took place. Instead, I seem to think, something else happened. Let’s try this. Uhuru Kenyatta: “Hullo, IG. There is a small matter I need to bring to your attention.” Boinnet, standing at attention in his office and saluting, “ Yes, Sir!” Uhuru: “This NASA thing and this welcome thing. I don’t want to hear about it. Deal with it.” Boinnet: “Yes, Sir!” still at attention and saluting. Uhuru: “I don’t want to hear that anybody reaches the airport for that stupid welcome on Friday morning. Do you hear me?” Boinnet: “Yes, Sir!” Now the salute is shaking a little with the eyes all at attention. Uhuru: “And there will be no rallies at Uhuru Park. Even Sonko has been informed.” Boinnet: “Yes, Sir!” Not knowing when to stand at ease, Boinnet waits 10 minutes, wondering whether the President had more to say until his secretary buzzes him that his chief of CID, Nairobi Area, whom he had called for, was still waiting to see him. Well, fellow Kenyans, this is the Kenya we live in, not the Kenya we deserve to live in. There are forms of political power relations that bring irrationality to otherwise very sane persons. Suppose President Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Amolo Odinga had sent the police to stop Uhuru and Ruto from riding on Jogoo Road on their way to Uhuru Park for their rally when they triumphantly entered Kenya from The Hague a couple of years ago. Wouldn’t their followers have cried foul? But in Raila’s case, Uhuru not only thwarted his attempts to come to town with his welcome team but also the police used the most foul methods to shoot people dead and maim some — just to demonstrate the President’s disgust with the large crowd that welcomed Raila. That is what I call political insecurity, a function of the weakness and brittleness of the Uhuru regime. We still need to fix our electoral system so that we can have greater chances of electing legitimate and strong governments, rather than illegitimate and weak governments with high propensities for ruling by force rather than persuasion. We need to go back to the drawing board and examine whether a presidential system of government and the winner-take-all electoral system will always send us to the doldrums of political crises every five years, whether we like it or not. This time it may be my President who causes the problem; next time it could as well be yours. I will not get tired of saying it, this scenario must change. Uhuru is actually wrong to plead with us to join him in governing Kenya when the very foundation on which he is trying to govern us is built on quicksand. Being sworn in and heading to State House neither ends the story nor solves the problem. We must still ask and answer the question: under what rules of the game did you, Mr President, win the match? You cannot avoid obeying the rules and declaring yourself the winner. You cannot intimidate the referee and supply him with the script with which to judge the match and assume we cannot see what is happening because we are blind. We are not. We ourselves are very sure that the game has to change. There are principles central to this democratic game that is won through free and fair elections that no player can change by his or her own will. Some of these principles are: respect for the rights of all players, equality before the law and inclusiveness in government. Under the present circumstances, the story surrounding the recent welcome of Raila and how the Uhuru government behaved shows the President has no respect for other people’s rights. He very conveniently forgot that the rights he enjoyed when he came from The Hague he should have extended to Raila too. Secondly, given that only 38 per cent of the population voted in the election of October 26, the 62 per cent who boycotted are actually the majority whose opinion should matter in governing Kenyans. Thirdly, if Uhuru goes ahead and forms a government, who is he really representing? To what extent can one say that such a government will be inclusive?