The Makueni assembly Committee on Environment has banned logging in Mbooni sub-county's Kivale forest until a license allowing felling of trees is verified. Chairman Kisungi Katete, who stopped some loggers from cutting trees at the forest on Friday, accused the Kenya Forest Service of presiding over an illegal act. This was after the agency failed to produce a letter from Environment CS Judy Wakhungu which purportedly lifted a 2013 ban on logging in Iuani and Kivale forests. The ward representatives accused KFS officer in charge of Mbooni Michael Ngunga for allowing the loggers to cut trees in the area without following the due legal process. "We have given instructions to KFS against felling of trees in Kivale forest until the assembly verifies the documents they purport to have used in issuing the licenses to traders." Katete said they will table a report in the assembly in seven days on their findings following the successful operation.  /MUTUA KAMETI However, Ngunga defended the decision saying the ban was imposed because NEMA had not conducted an environmental impact assessment. He said and that KFS had complied with all legal requirements before issuing logging licenses to the dealers adding that the activities in the two forests were lawful. Makueni deputy speaker Harrison Mutie said the assembly will not sit back and watch the destruction of forests by a few individuals. "Knowing that Makueni is an arid land, we appeal to CS Wakhungu to give us the necessary support so that our environment is protected," he said. "As legislators and representatives of the people of Makueni, we will use every law applicable to ensure every activity carried out in our forest is within the law."  /MUTUA KAMETI His sentiments were echoed by Majority leader Kyalo Mumo. On Friday, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior said he was yet to get a reply to a letter he wrote to the ministry on November 21 seeking to know whether the ban was lifted. The 2013 ban originated from a statement he sought at the Senate in following illegal activities in forests in the region.  Click here for the latest political news