Local firms underutilising information from their data centres risk being swept away by evolving technologies from as early as 2019, experts have cautioned. This also applys to over 50 per cent of firms across all industries in the country that have not invested in data centres or cloud. According to East Africa Data Centre general manager Dan Kwach, most firms which have invested in the data centres consume only up to 30 per cent of the analytics collected, hence exposing themselves to the danger of technology refresh. “Industry statistics show that whenever firms procure IT Infrastructure and own them, most of the time they use only up to 30 per cent because they procure not for the immediate need but for future need, most of them end up having idle resources,” Kwach said. Speaking to the Star on Friday during the 7th CIO Symposium held in Naivasha, the data centre expert noted that firms which have not invested or leased data centres are compromising on their services and probability for survival. While this is important, industry players in the conference urged enterprises to adapt cloud services, and big data analytics to make future decisions on enhancing customer experience and kick off preparations for Internet of Things disruptions (IoT). According to Telkom product manager Peter Othino, big data analytics, mobile computing and use of software as a service should be the major areas of investments for firms that need to remain relevant in the next couple of years. “Adoption of this type of technology will help firms examine large amounts of data to uncover hidden patterns; correlations and other insights, hence get immediate answers,” Othino said. However, firms that do not heed to this call will be disrupted by the end of 2018 by digitally enabled competitors. Fast forward to 2019, it is also predicted that 60 per cent of customers across all industries will connect to organisations through mobile applications. In a new report by Forrester, an analyst directory, most firms will adopt Artificial Intelligence capabilities and big data analytics from January 2018. The report, dubbed Predictions 2018: The Honeymoon for AI Is Over, notes that, as a result of this adoption, 70 per cent of enterprises expect to implement them over the next 12 months, up from 40 per cent in 2016 and 51 per cent in 2017. In addition to this, 20 per cent of enterprises will deploy Artificial Intelligence to make decisions and provide real-time instructions.      