Kenya will in two weeks time lift the ban that suspended the export of Kenyan domestic workers to Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Speaking to the Star, Labour CS Phylis Kandie said the government has since adopted new rules and measures that will aid in curbing the mistreatment of Kenyan workers in the Gulf countries. Among them is pre-departure training for those wishing to travel to the Middle East seeking employment. Kandie said the National Institute Training Authority (NITA) has developed a curriculum and will be using their centre in Athi River to train domestic workers. NITA will give a holistic training that imparts knowledge on efficiency in handling various home assignments, among other things. Kandie indicated she will be visiting the centre before she lifts the ban. “I first need to see whether they are prepared to receive the first batch of trainees before I lift the ban. Also note that in the future, we will license other private sectors to do pre-departure training as I’m sure the numbers will rise,” she said. In 2014, the Kenyan government imposed a total ban on the export of domestic workers following claims of deplorable working conditions, human rights violations, exploitation and abuse at the workplace by Kenya’s domestic workers. It also revoked the licenses of 930 recruitment agencies after reports of abuses increased. Yesterday, Kandie said the establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Vetting Committee has been able to vet firms that are engaged in the business of sending Kenyan labourers out of the country. The vetting and licensing of agencies is a continuous process but those currently registered are 29 in total, from 930. Those accredited are Plan Manpower Limited, Skyways Global Services Ltd, Silver RayHR Company Ltd, Elmerry International Connections Ltd, Jechri Enterprises Ltd, Emvic Ltd, Everlast Trading Company Ltd, Reliance Ltd, Scholars Overseas Ltd, Derimel Recruiting Agency Ltd, Satmar Technologies Company Limited, Everhope Agent Ltd, Forbes Global Agencies Ltd, Al Frawkly Services Ltd, Selective Outsourcing Solutions Ltd, Jawatha Agent Ltd, Harpers Management ( 2011 ) Ltd, Rawafid Manpower Solution Ltd, Tusano Combined Supplies Ltd, The Fregice Agencies Ltd, Medros Ltd, Grajowa Enterprises Ltd, Pgdee Agency Limited, Nassam Solutions Manpower Limited, Joytom Manpower & Travel Solutions Ltd, Inve-Track Ltd, Wings Recruitment Agency Ltd, Anyiro Agency Ltd and Human Power Global Kenya Limited. Their names have since been circulated to all embassies. In addition, labour attaches have been posted to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the State of Qatar to deal with welfare of labour migrants.  The government signed a bilateral labour agreement with the State of Qatar and bilateral labour agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A draft MoU on labour with the United Arab Emirates has also been initiated. Other bilateral labour agreements have also been initiated with Oman, Lebanon and Jordan.  