From what our Kenyan friends tell us, many people in this country have a high opinion of Swiss chocolates. And also, Swiss cheese. But what if we were to say to you that if you love to eat tasty and firm ugali or a fresh chapati, then Swiss technology almost definitely played a part in that? Allow us to elaborate: Kenyan youth are undoubtedly a crucial asset for a thriving Kenya. However, providing the youth with long-term prospects continues to be a challenge for policymakers, companies and society. Switzerland has one of the lowest youth unemployment rates in the world. And here is something which may amaze many in a country like Kenya, where families will often make great sacrifices to get their children a university education: Only one third of young Swiss choose to go to university after completing compulsory education. Yet, despite this, Switzerland is the world’s leading innovator. How does this work? One answer to this can be found just a few kilometres north of Nairobi, in an industrial park on the side of Thika Highway. It is home to the Eastern Africa headquarters of the Bühler Group, a Swiss company. It was founded back in 1860, and today employs around 10,500 persons in 140 countries. That is why we can confidently say that if you love to eat that fresh chapati, chances are that its ingredients have been ground by a Bühler mill. But, the machine is only one ingredient of the recipe to success. Despite tremendous technological progress, the key factor for a high-quality product remains the person operating the mill: The miller. That is why — inspired by its longstanding experience rooted in Switzerland’s education system — Bühler has invested in establishing the African Milling School. Each year, dozens of young women and men from Kenya and the region, but also countries as far as Pakistan, Nigeria and South Africa, come to Nairobi and participate in Vocational Education and Training to become professional millers. The two-year apprenticeship programme at the African Milling School offers comprehensive training, both theoretical and practical. After completing their course, these young people return home with excellent professional perspectives and prospects. Today, we are proud to say, 26 young students graduated and received their diploma in milling. To them we extend our congratulations! The success story of the African Milling School is symptomatic of the system of Vocational Education and Training in Switzerland. That system enables young people to enter the labour market and it has become a key ingredient for our strong and sustainable development. After completing compulsory education, a full two-thirds of young Swiss people enter a VET programme, preparing them for one of about 250 professions. During the programmes (which last up to four years), they take part in an apprenticeship in order to learn a given trade in practice. It combines classes at a vocational school with on-the-job training at a host company, where the young apprentices are employed and earn their first (and somewhat modest) salaries. While the VET System has developed over decades in Switzerland, there is no reason whatsoever why it cannot function well in other countries, too. Action is needed by government to generate the right laws, assure quality and standards and create incentives for companies. The essential ingredient, however, is and remains the private sector. It is companies which provide jobs, and demand certain skill sets. It is the companies which provide the apprenticeship positions accordingly. This is how the Swiss system takes into account actual needs and is thus closely correlated with the labour market. As a result, young graduates have a wealth of job prospects! In short, while it is crucial for the government to create the right framework conditions, it is for the companies to take on responsibility, hold a long-term vision and give back to society by harnessing the energy of youth.   Ralf Heckner, Ambassador of Switzerland
to Kenya Martin Schlauri, Principal of the African
Milling School, Kenya