Travellers have to grapple with the change of routes to be used to and outside the city today. This comes in the wake of the planned swearing-in ceremony for President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto at the Kasarani Sports Complex. Police have laid out a network of alternative roads to be used following the closure of main roads leading to the venue.  Nairobi police commander Japhet Koome yesterday said security officers will secure areas mapped out as “red-zones” and will deal firmly with anyone attempting to defy orders from officers controlling traffic. The red zones include Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway, Museum Hill and Aga Khan Nursery School, which is opposite the National Museum. Others are Wangare Maathai Road and Thika Superhighway — all the way to Kasarani. Those accessing town from Mombasa Road will be diverted to the Eastern Bypass at City Cabanas, where they will proceed to Outer Ring and Jogoo roads. Those heading to Githurai, Kahawa West and adjacent areas, and Ruiru may also use the the Eastern Bypass. Vehicles moving from those areas to town will either use the Eastern Bypass and enter town from Eastlands, through Juja Road. Travellers accessing Waiyaki Way and the Nairobi-Nakuru highway from Mombasa Road will be diverted to the Southern Bypass at Ole Sereni Hotel, from where they will connect to Waiyaki Way from Chiromo, Westlands roundabout and nearby roads. Others may proceed to Kikuyu through the bypass depending on their destinations. Motorists from Lang’ata and Ngong roads intending to join the Thika Superhighway will use Mbagathi Way and Argwings Kodhek Road, Nyerere and Mamlaka roads to Waiyaki Way then use adjacent roads to access the superhighway past Kasarani. Motorists from South C, Nairobi West and neighbouring areas will use the Mbagathi Way route. No vehicles will be allowed to join Mombasa Road from Enterprise Road. “However, officers will use their discretion to guide motorists without compromising the security of VIPs coming for the ceremony. All are expected to cooperate,” Koome said. Kipande Road will not be fully closed but motorists will have to be guided by police on when to cross at the Museums overpass to connect to Ojijo Road.  Uhuru’s swearing-in comes after the Supreme Court upheld his October 26 rerun victory. NASA boycotted the election and has planned a parallel function today at Jacaranda Grounds. 