At 3pm on Saturday, the mother of two Ol Kalou girls aged 13 and 11 told them to prepare to visit their grandmother. Little did the girls know that their mother, 50, would take them to a horrendous session of female genital mutilation. Related: Circumciser, four women arraigned after FGM in Narok The woman took her children from Rutara village in Kanjuiri ward to the 75-year-old grandmother's home at Ngorika village. At 8pm, the minors were blindfolded and led to the back of the house where they were pushed to the ground.  Their mother and other people held their hands and legs as the old woman circumcised them with a pair of scissors. It was after they were taken back to Rutara on Monday that a villager noticed something was not right. The resident informed Rutara chief Peter Kimani who then reported the matter to Mirangine police station.  Maasai girls arrive for the start of a social event advocating against harmful practices such as Female Genital Mutilation at Imbirikani Girls' High School, April 21, 2016. /REUTERS The mother was arrested that evening and led the officers, along with her children, to the scene of the crime. The pair of scissors, a razor blade and a rope were found. A carton box with the underwear of young girls was also found. The children were taken back to the station where they spent the night at the home of a female police officer. They were taken to JM Memorial hospital in Ol kalou on Tuesday for examination and cleaning.  'Too shocking' Simforosa Gichohi, a volunteer children's officer at Tumaini location in Ol Kalou, said the items showed the woman had been circumcising girls for long. "The woman said she used the scissors to cut the girls. She boils it before use. We were too shocked," she told The Star on Thursday afternoon. "What happens when, for instance, five girls are taken to her? Does she boil the scissors after every cut? We felt the children, with the woulds still fresh and bleeding, could have gotten infected. "FGM entails removing the clitoris. I was horrified when the doctor informed me that even the hymen is removed. How can this happen? Did this old woman insert her hands into the children's private parts as she circumcised them?"  Pokot girls, draped in animal skins, sit on rocks during their circumcision ceremony, in a village about 80 kilometres from the town of Marigat in Baringo County, October 16, 2014. /REUTERS The older girl is a class seven pupil and the younger one a class four learner. Their mother and circumciser were arraigned at a Nakuru court on Wednesday. Gichohi said the children could not testify as they were still in great pain. They were later taken to St Martin Children's Home in Nyahururu town where they were admitted for treatment and counselling. The girls will testify in the case once they recover. 'Unfortunate and retrogressive' Gichohi said the government should note that the act that "degrades the girl child" is taking place at the heart of Nyandarua county and other parts of the country. "Th government should take immediate steps to end the vice," she said. "I expect the circumciser will be taken to jail because what we found in her house is enough evidence that she has been practicing female genital mutilation." Speaking to the Star on phone on Thursday evening, the chief said the incident was unfortunate and retrogressive. Kimani said the girls' mother and the old woman should be severely punished as they contravened article 53(1)(d) of the constitution. The article notes children's rights to protection from neglect, harmful cultural practices, all forms of violence, inhuman treatment and hazardous or exploitative labour. "It is very degrading for children...I wonder if they will be able to return home," he said, and warned that the government network is "very alive so those practicing the vice, however discreet they try to be, will face the law."  Also read: I am now a complete woman: FGM survivors regain lost identity after reconstructive surgery Click here for the latest political news