Kenya continues to go through tempestuous times. Opposition leader Raila Odinga has declared a one-million-people march early next month in Nairobi. NASA has urged their supporters to boycott products manufactured by companies controlled by hardliners associated with President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta. These and other acts of defiance against the government are indicators of adverse market sentiments. Depending on how it deals with its fiscal position post-election, Kenya risks being downgraded after ranking 80th in a 190-investor friendly economies index released by the World Bank in June 2017. An African proverb states “a man stung by a bee does not destroy all the beehives”. Kenyan politicians need to adopt this wisdom. In their unrelenting efforts to abhor each other, the misuse of Parliament and coercion of the Supreme Court, which let a highly debatable reelection go ahead, along with the multi-prolonged agitation, including the formation of the so-called People’s Assembly by the opposition, have severely maligned the geopolitical goodwill and the socioeconomic confidence that Kenya has so painstakingly earned as a regional economic powerhouse. Kenya is at war with itself. The country needs to reassure investor confidence, as multinationals and trade blocs are closely observing the protracted political disturbance. When Kenya falters, its ramifications create an imbalance in eastern African. Trade wars, which neighbouring Tanzania is so keen on but unable to wage against Kenya, which is the pivotal regional economic giant, can escalate. Inland members of the East African Community, namely Uganda, Burundi, South Sudan and Rwanda, already face trade and industry challenges, being highly dependent on the Port in Mombasa for its supply of consumer products and industrial raw materials. The Ugandan economy registered a sluggish first quarter. “We are more concerned with events in Kenya, which is a key trade partner. The Kenyan route is a risk factor because it affects our exports, and collection of import duties and our growth projections depend on how the events unfold,” said Dr Albert Musisi, Commissioner at the Ugandan Finance Ministry. Places as far as the eastern DR Congo have their economies affected as the Northern Corridor, the strategic transport route in East and Central Africa, provides a gateway through Kenya. With the holiday season approaching, tourism is expected to take a beating since Kenya is the decisive point of start for travellers who opt for a ‘circuit package’ across the East African countries. The political unrest is expected to have an adverse effect on the EAC’s tourism and hospitality industry as a whole, even as the World Travel Market forum gets underway in London today. Kenyans, particularly the business community and trade unions, need to work themselves to the bone and press on for a path of reconciliation. Bordering countries have resorted to using the Port of Dar es Salaam and the longer Central Corridor through Tanzania. It will not be long now before other African trade blocs like the larger African Economic Community and its pillar groups such as Comesa follow suit in search of feasible alternatives, further diminishing Kenya’s strategic economic advantage.   Communications consultant and commentator on East and Central African economic and political affairs equinoxcommunication@gmail.com  