Traders are assessing their losses after the clash between NASA supporters and police last Friday. Business on Jogoo Road came to a stand still as NASA supporters marched to welcome their leader Raila Odinga from the US. Near the City Stadium roundabout, traders were forced to abandon their premises as mobs barricaded some parts of Mombasa Road and Jogoo Road. At Taj mall near the roundabout, they lit bonfires to block police. Motorists caught in the middle of the chaos had their windscreens stoned. “I was heading home with my three-year-old daughter when suddenly my windscreen was stoned. But I thank God my daughter was seated at the back,” said Maryann Wandia, a Tasia resident.  Anti-riot police spray water at NASA supporters as they marched to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE At the City Stadium market, most businesses closed indefinitely, while others were looted and destroyed as clashes escalated between the supporters and police. "The police had blocked the way for the NASA leaders and supporters at the roundabout and that was when I saw stones being thrown by the supporters," said Joshua Omondi. Read: Raila slams police over 'merciless killings', claims 15 dead He said he saw an unidentified man set fire to a Forward Traveller's sacco matatu that was parked at the road side. The 42-seater PSV was set ablaze by an unknown man under the footbridge. Baba Zakayo, a witness, was at the footbridge where he had laid on the ground as he watched the chaos from an aerial view. He told The Star that the matatu driver was trapped inside and had to break through the window to escape.  A matatu belonging to Forward Travellers' Sacco burns as anti-riot police clash with NASA supporters who were marching to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE Another witness said the man who set the matatu ablaze had petrol in a jerry can. However, the man disappeared in the midst of the supporters who were increasing in numbers.  A matatu belonging to Forward Travellers' Sacco burns as anti-riot police clash with NASA supporters who were marching to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE Chicken sellers at City Market were not spared as mobs made away with their goods. “Once I saw the tear gas, I lay on the ground only to stand up later and find 15 of my chickens gone,” Mama Njoroge told The Star.  A man steals chickens during as anti-riot police clash with NASA supporters who were marching to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE Meat sellers at the Burma Market were not spared as looters stole meat, even in buckets, as they escaped from the tear gas. "They stole a lot of meat and some were armed with stones and knives and we had to ran away to save our lives,” said Muhonja Gitonga. Mkokoteni drivers also counted their losses as looters took their tyres and set them on fire. When the police attempted to stop the mob with of tear gas, some went to the stands to hide. ROBBED IN BROAD DAYLIGHT At the Shell petrol station near the roundabout, armed looters chased away a matatu driver together with passengers. “I was heading from town when the driver said we had to stop at the petrol station because the NASA supporters were heading towards this direction.  "I had my one-year-old baby with me when some supporters chased us away from the matatu and told us to leave,” said Sharon Nyangweso. The matatu was broken into and belongings of the passengers were stolen in broad daylight. On Saturday morning business was still slow around the City Stadium market as tried to assess damage and loss.  Looters steal raw chickens as anti-riot police clash with NASA supporters who were marching to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE Members from the Forward Travellers matatu Sacco attempted to block the road to protest but police fired tear gas at them. “We cannot accept such actions. What was the reason behind it all?” said Sacco chair George Mugo. "We don’t understand why they had to burn our matatu yet it didn’t pose any harm to them,” a matatu tout who sought anonymity said. Matatu Owners Association chair Simon Kimutai condemned the act and said he will issue an official statement concerning the issue this week. SHAME AND DISAPPOINTMENT One person was reported killed at Nacico plaza Muthurwa as police tried to stop the youth from setting the police lorry on fire. “For how long will the innocent people continue to cry?” These two leaders [Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta] are the ones who can end this all,” said Josphat Muthama, shoe seller, as he tried to gather shoes that were scattered on the road side. "I saw it best to hide behind a press car which was parked at the petrol station because I knew the media would not be attacked,” said Abdi Hassan. Hassan said after the police left, the chaos started between mobs and the traders around City Stadium. He said traders were offended by those who took advantage of the chaos and riots to loot their wares. Workers and customers at Aramas Hotel were caught unawares as tear gas canisters and stones were thrown inside the premises.  Anti-riot police clash with NASA supporters who were marching to receive their leader, Raila Odinga, November 17, 2017. /ENOS TECHE "I don’t know where exactly I will start because the loss I encountered yesterday will take quite some time sometime to recover," said Manasseh Mbugua, the hotel owner. Manasseh said he was very ashamed and disappointed that Kenyans could take part in such ruthless acts. "Why do they have to always attack innocent traders when all we have not done any wrong? They could have just walked with him [Raila] and go instead of stealing and destroying our business," said Peter Mwangi, business trader. Traders said this was the first time they have experienced such violence. Some say they are afraid of opening on Monday as the Supreme Court prepares to deliver its ruling on the repeat presidential election. "My mother and I have decided that we won't open business for we don’t know what will emerge,” said one businessman identified as Joshua. Also read: Police plan 'biggest, heaviest' deployment for Monday Supreme Court ruling