Security officers
involved in the Linda Boni operation have accused the government of failure to pay their allowances. The officers drawn from the GSU, Recce Squad, ATPU, RBPU, RDU, AP and Regular Police. Speaking to the Star in Milimani yesterday, they said have suffered during the operation yet the government has refused to pay their hardship allowances. “We feel deserted and
abandoned. It's like the government doesn’t even remember they sent us here to
fight," one of the officers who refused to be named said. He said they have been risking their lives in the fight against al-Shabaab, and that it was frustrating to go without allowances. "We are on a suicide mission and the least the government can do is pay us. But it is sad that someone in Nairobi has decided to sit on our
allowances," the officer added. The Linda Boni operation was launched in September 2015. It is meant to flush out al-Shabaab terrorists from the expansive forest and restore security in Lamu. It was initially limited to the Boni Forest but has since been expanded to the Boni enclave with KDF and various units of the National Police Service included. The officers are entitled to Sh33,500 hardship allowance per month. More than 3,000 officers are involved in the operation. Linda Boni operation director Joseph Kanyiri said he was aware of the officers complaints. His office was in talks with the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to have the matter resolved. “They will obviously be paid their allowances. We are aware of the issues they have raised and are looking into them," Kanyiri said. Kanyiri told the officers to check their bank accounts as soon as next week. The officers said similar promises had been made before yet no payment came.      meant to flush out Alshabaab
militants from the Boni forest and neighboring areas have accused the
government of refusing to pay them their hardship allowances as agreed before
they were deployed. The officers include
GSU officers including the elite Recce Squad,ATPU,RBPU,RDU,APs and Regular
police officers. Speaking in Milimani area,one of the major
operation areas on Thursday,the well-trained officers who all refused to be named
for fear of being victimized by their bosses said they face untold suffering
each time they have to faced their duty without the much needed hardship allowances. Scathing Alshabaab
attacks in various parts of Lamu have left scores of security officers and
civilians dead in Lamu and neighboring Garissa and Tana River counties. The officers said it
was unfair that they put their lives at risk daily as they take part in the
operation yet their was nothing to show for it in terms of the hardship
allowances. The operation was
launched by the national government in September 2015 and is meant to flush out
Al-Shabaab militants believed to be hiding inside the dense forest from where
they launch attacks of various parts of Lamu,Tana River and Garissa counties. Currently,the operation
which was recently recoined to The Boni Enclave Campaign is being conducted by
a contingence of security units among them the KDF and various units of the
National Police Service including the GSU,AP,RDU,RBPU,ATPU,KWS,NIS,NYS among
others. The renaming of the of
the operation subsequently resulted in the incorporation of members of the public
and specifically the Boni community into the operation. The security officers
drawn specifically from operations areas in
Milimani,Mararani,Mangai,Basuba.Bodhei,Ishakani and inside the Boni forest have
accused the government of neglect and rescinding on their promise to ensure
they are well taken care of even as they conduct the dangerous operation. They said each officer
is owed Sh.189,000 for the over six month period that they have been working in
the area. The hardship allowance
is Sh.33,500 per soldier. The operation has more
than 3000 security officers and the deployments continue to grow each day. The officers said attempts to raise the issue with their
bosses have borne no fruits as they keep taking them in circles. They said they were
aware that treasury had released enough funds for the operation but that
someone in Nairobi had deliberately refused to release the money to them. “Someone is seated in
office in Nairobi and has no idea what we face doing this job each day and that’s
still the same person who has refused to pay us our allowances.We do the dirty
work and die while at it but whoever gets paid for our own efforts and blood is
up there.People must stop being selfish and understand that we need that money
more than them,”said another officer. They said it was unfortunate that several of their colleagues
have already died having been killed in battle by the Alshabaab before they knew
the fate of their hardship allowances which would have helped the families they
left back.    