It seems Ezekiel Mutua, our glorious censor-in-chief (as the BBC christened him), took some time off last week from trolling Disney cartoons in his relentless quest to uncover all things gay, and decided to bring his bigoted morality to the wilds of the Maasai Mara. Earlier in the week, #Ezekiel, as I prefer to refer to him, had been trending on Twitter for his ban of a Disney Channel show, Andi Mack, where one of the main characters has started questioning his sexuality and even came out to one of his friends. This storyline was too much for the completely gay-obsessed #Ezekiel, who reached for his Twitter account to Tweet: “Children must be given correct information that family is a union between people of opposite gender.” Which made me wonder if he is also opposed to single parent families, of which we have many in Kenya. Just in case not everyone who knows him is on Twitter, he went on Facebook and shouted: “Gay Content Will Not Air in Kenya... PERIOD!” I wonder if he has caught on to Oaken and his family from Frozen or the Oryx-Antlersons from Zootopia or even Scar from the Lion King? Of course now, I worry that he will ban all three movies. Meanwhile, #Ezekiel had barely finished wiping the froth from the sides of his mouth over the gay cartoons, when he was horrified by the story of a pair of male lions photographed being sexual and loving with each other, in the Maasai Mara. He immediately put on his animal behavioural psychologist hat and pronounced the lions ‘crazy’. He then decided to become Pastor #Ezekiel and said the animals had been possessed by ‘demonic spirits’, suggesting that the “bad behaviour” had been learnet by the lions after they had obviously seen humans doing similar things. Briefly this had me imagining a situation where lions watched TV and had their own version of David Attenborough highlighting human interactions. But all of this just got me thinking about how #Ezekiel’s preoccupation with all things homosexual might be seen in some quarters as some sort of cry for help. I say this because according to a 2012 study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, men who are so obsessed with hostility to all things gay “may be threatened by gays and lesbians because homosexuals remind them of similar tendencies within themselves”. Perhaps, before he carries on with his campaign of hate against gay people, #Ezekiel might need to practise a little introspection and see if there’s anything he might want to share with the world. Meanwhile, he could do worse than read another 2012 study, this one by biologists Nathan W Bailey and Marlene Zuk from the University of California, Riverside. They suggested that homosexual behavior in animals may be much more common than previously thought and, in fact, “may also confer certain evolutionary advantages”. Meanwhile, #Ezekiel please let the lions of the Mara just be and don’t feel that you need to organise for them to be separated or otherwise interfered with. It’s not that big a deal and you need to get over it.