The Nakuru court has dismissed an application by American and catholic priest to gain control of Sh3bn St. Marys mission hospitals in Nakuru and Langata. The American priest suffered a huge blow on Tuesday after Justice Sila Munyao dismissed his application to stay execution of judgment delivered against him. Justice Sila Munyao declined to issue the prayers sought by the priest on grounds that the application lodged before him was incompetent saying it had a less chance of success. In reading his judgement, the judge noted that the applicant in the matter had changed his advocate immediately after the judgement of the matter without filing and serving the respondents in the suit adding that the lawyer is a stranger to the matter. "The application before me is incompetent and has no chance of success in this court, the lawyer for the applicant is a stranger in this matter since no formal change of advocate was filed in court notifying the same. Dr. William Charles Fryda, a Maryknol Priest and missionary doctor went back to court an filed an application seeking orders barring his rivals the Assumption Sisters of Nairobi from taking over St Mary’s Mission hospitals in Elementaita and Lang’ata. This was after the Environment and Lands Court in Nakuru on September 2017 ruled in favor of nuns and ordered that the hospital and other properties be transferred to a charitable trust under the management of St Mary’s Mission Hospital Limited. The priest had sued the nuns and for seven years battled over ownership of the hospitals. In the judgment of the court Fryda was to continue holding his position as the medical director with the hospital until the properties were transferred to the company and noted that it was sad if after all his input the priest is cast out. The priest aggrieved by the decision of the court went back and filed an application to bar the execution of the court’s judgment, he also filed a notice of appeal. He wanted the court issue permanent injunction orders restraining the nuns either by themselves and their servants from entering and interfering with his use and enjoyment of the premises. In his application through lawyer Esther Gathoni, the priest informed the court that he would suffer irreparable damage if the property is taken over from him and added that services in the hospitals will be interrupted. He also accused the nuns of throwing their weight around in preparation take over the properties. His application was admitted and temporary orders were issued and the nuns could not execute the judgment despite it being in their favor. The nuns in their reply objected the application by Fryda and challenged the application saying Lawyer Gathoni who acted for Fryda was not in record as they were not informed by Fryda of the change of advocates. They also said Fryda would not suffer any loss.