A Kiambu High Court judge will announce on December 7 whether he will disqualify himself from the Kiru Boys' murder case. Two people accused of murdering Solomon Mwangi filed the application for judge Joel Ngugi not to handle the matter over claims of bias. Mwangi's widow Jane Muthoni and Isaac Ng'ang'a filed the application through their lawyer Francis Njanja. Related: Killer of Kiru Boys principal jailed 7 years, told court wife ordered murder Njanja said the court has pre-determinations following confessions by suspect Joseph Kariuki alias Karis. Kariuki said he participated in the crime and linked Muthoni and Ng'ang'a to it. The lawyer said this means his clients will not be granted a fair hearing. "The accused are presumed innocent until proven guilty. This court has been unfair as it is relying on the confessions of Kariuki to convict them. The accused feel the case should be heard by another judge." Four other witnesses will give their accounts and be cross-examined. Njanja further said his clients were denied bail and that the aim was to punish them as the prosecution did not give compelling reasons. "The tone and wording of the ruling showed prejudice," he said, noting his clients want justice which can only be guaranteed if Ngugi disqualifies himself. The defence counsel wants the case transferred to Nairobi "where there are more judges". Prosecution counsel Catherine Mwaniki rejected the application, telling the court her counterpart was delaying justice and making moves that were not in good faith. The court will be impartial, she said, adding that an affidavit by investigating officer Oliver Nabonwe showed Njanja presented his clients several times in Kariuki's case.  She noted this was in line with an agreement entered on January 31 following negotiations by the accused, who pleaded guilty to manslaughter charges. Mwaniki stated that on December 21, 2016, when a consolidated plea was sought, it was pointed out that the accused were aware of Kariuki's deal with the state. She told the court if the two were aggrieved by the court, they should have objected the proceedings. "They were aware of the weight of evidence by the prosecution, through the four witnesses who testified, before the case was adjourned on May 8. The accused did not object a hearing on September 6 on whether to grant bail or bond." Victims lawyer Wokabi Mathenge also said the defence was aware of all events concerning the case. Mathenge said the court cannot convict itself and that justice must be served. "The court is unlikely to be impartial and the accused's application is inconsequential to proceedings," the lawyer added. More on this: I was offered Sh200,000 to extract Kiru principal's messages, murder case witness tells court Click here for political and other stories