Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has threatened to
sack medical superintendents of local hospitals over lack of drugs and
laboratory services. The governor who conducted an impromptu tour of
Murang’a general hospital which is the county referral hospital was shocked to
find hundreds of patients who had been referred to private labs and pharmacies. Patients complained that the hospital lacked basic
drugs like de-wormers and that they are reffered to specific pharmacies and
labs for tests and medication. “They have told me that they do not have re-agents
to conduct tests on my stool and referred me to a certain lab in Murang’a
town,” one patient said. The hospital’s management was at pains to explain
why the hospital did not have drugs only saying that a supplier had delayed
delivery. After interrogation, medics also revealed that some
of the drugs patients had been told to buy in private pharmacies had
alternatives that were available in the hospital. “I do not understand why patients are being sent
outside for basic lab tests and medications. I have seen a case where a patient
was charged Sh. 10,000 for a test in a local lab. This is unacceptable,” Wa
Iria said. The governor noted that the county government has
set aside Sh. 700 million for drugs and that there is no excuse for health
facilities not to be properly stocked. He threatened to sack medical superintendents of
health facilities that will be found without sufficient medications saying they
are punishing patients. Wa Iria accused medics of colluding with private
labs and pharmacies to get a cut for every patient they refer to them. He said as a result, medics delay procurement of
drugs and send patients to the private facilities to make extra money. Wa Iria sacked officers in charge of the pharmacy
but rehired them after patients pleaded with him to forgive them. “This is corruption of the highest order and will
not be tolerated. The next time I get complaints of lack of drugs, they will go
home,” the governor said. He also directed that any referral made to a private
pharmacy or laboratory has to be signed by the medical superintendents to
ensure they take full responsibility of lack of the services. The governor also asked patients to report to his
office if they are referred to a private facility for drugs or tests. “Murang’a general hospital has now been elevated to
a level five hospital and any referral done should be to a national referral
hospital,” Wa Iria added. He said the executive in charge of health will also
have his office relocated from the county government offices to the hospital
for closer supervision. Ends             