Ekuru Aukot has denied claims that he was paid billions of shillings by Jubilee to participate in the disputed October 26 presidential election. The Thirdway Alliance leader dismissed the bribery claims as "utter nonsense and sheer propaganda". "I followed the High Court order which directed IEBC to include my name on the ballot," he said on Wednesday during an interview on Radio Jambo's morning show. Aukot said he accepted to be on the ballot after the electoral agency convinced him the polls will be free and fair. "The Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission explained to us how they would effectively do the voting and tallying," he said. "We were happy with the process as was planed by the polls body." The lawyer, who secured 27,333 votes, said he remained in the presidential race to give Kenyans a variety of choices. Social media has had reports that the presidential candidate in the fresh October vote was transformed into a millionaire overnight. Aukot said no one could stop or influence his decision to take part in the election. At least 25 constituencies did not take part in the polls after NASA leader Raila Odinga said he will not take part. But the Thirdway leader says the their total number of votes would not influence the total tally of the October 26 polls. "The law allows the results to be declared if the remaining
constituencies do not have enough numbers to influence the total
outcome." President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner with 7,483,895 votes followed distantly by Raila who got 73,228 votes. "After Raila pulled out of the fresh elections, it is official that Thirdway alliance is the official opposition," he said. "Raila had lots of votes but pulled out. I expected him to endorse me so that I could easily send Uhuru home." The ODM leader cited lack of electoral reforms as his reason for withdrawing from the race. The other candidates were Japheth Kaluyu, Cyrus Jirongo, Mohamed Dida, Michael Wainaina, and Joe Nyagah. Aukot expressed optimism that his team is strong enough to put the government in check despite having no MPs. He also dismissed the issue of nominations prior to the repeat election saying the Supreme Court only cancelled the August poll over illegalities and irregularities. "Nomination was done by IEBC long time ago and NASA looking for an excuse," the former constitutional reforms leader said. He said Okiya Omtata has borrowed the same argument in his petition at the Supreme Court but will lose the case. Read: Dismiss Omtatah’s suit against rerun, it’s defective, Aukot urges