Nyeri county will today bid farewell to its great son Dr Wahome Gakuru. It is a thunderous loss, akin to the falling of a mugumo tree. We convey our heartfelt condolences to the widow Catherine Wahome, the three sons; Wangai, Mugambi and Maina; the parents; family and friends. Many people in Nyeri feel the loss personally, with the fear that his vision will not see the light of day: We feel hopeless and helpless because we just lost the first Governor, Nderitu Gachagua, in February. But led by our religious leaders, we put our trust in God. Nyeri put a lot of its hope for growth and transformation in Gakuru. We were sure with Daktari, this county would be among the best well run in the country — it would truly be a no corruption zone, and big projects would be implemented, if the work he did at the Vision 2030 Secretariat is anything to go by. I loved the message Catherine gave during the memorial service at Dedan Kimathi University: “On Saturday, we will lay to rest Dr Wahome but not his vision. His vision will live on in Nyeri and beyond”. I applaud the new Governor Mutahi Kahiga for assuring us, in his inaugural speech, that he will implement Gakuru’s vision and that Nyeri county will grow and corruption will not be tolerated. I have known Gakuru since 2012, when he first vied for governor. After winning the TNA nominations, we met quite often. We heard about his very impressive CV. He had four degrees including his PhD. He had worked as a director at Vision, which was championed by former President Mwai Kibaki, the most respected leader in Nyeri. During the nominations, the elderly were only asking for 2030 at the polling stations. Unfortunately, Gakuru lost that election. He was a graceful loser: Despite winning in four constituencies he did not file a petition. And after the election, he spent a lot of time in Nyeri with the residents in local trading centres, popularly known as ‘burotis’, taking tea and mandazi. He would attend funerals and not worry whether he would be recognised or not. By this year, the people of Nyeri couldn’t wait to have him as governor. He was overwhelmingly voted for both in the nominations and on August 8. On the campaign trail and in his speeches, there are things he loved to say that we will miss. ‘Ni nii’ translates to ‘ni mimi’ in Kiswahili. He would also tell the story of his three sons and the only thing pending was a daughter to be named Kageci, after his mother. To the laughter of the audience, he would say not having a daughter was not due to laziness or lack of effort! After the nullification of the Presidential election, we got a chance to see his other side — a politician. Daktari was a refined technocrat but in campaigning for UhuRuto, he breathed fire. We worked together in the UhuRuto Express Team Two where we visited various counties, among them Nyeri, Baringo, Nyandarua, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Nandi, Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Embu. In this campaign, he had become our last and star speaker. We remember the punchline he delivered, calling himself Mtoto wa Mau Mau. He made it clear that we need a stable and well-functioning national government for the counties to move forward.  We had a lot to look forward to in Gakuru, but Gods plans are not our plans. We are hopeful that some of his key projects will be implemented. Improvements in the health sector and the building of a Sh4 billion Cancer Centre to be hosted by Dedan Kimathi University is a project we will name after him. Reviving the railway, a project shared by several counties should take off. Expansion of Nyaribo Airstrip is critical. We had occasion to discuss it while waiting for our flights at the Eldoret Airport, seeing how the place had developed. Daktari was a humble man. In his vehicles one would easily hike a lift as I did when we got to JKIA from Eldoret. He had no airs and was always looking at the big picture. Fare thee well, Mtoto wa Mau Mau. May we inter your body but not your vision.