Turf wars pitting Jubilee against NASA have scuttled, for the fourth time in three months, a key induction session for governors and their deputies. The four-day forum was planned to start today in Kwale. The CoG did not, however, give reasons for the indefinite cancellation. “This is to let you know the Council of Governors and deputy governors’ induction scheduled to start tomorrow, November 20, in Diani Reef Hotel, Kwale, has been postponed. We apologise to our stakeholders and partners,” it said on Twitter. JP governors are said to have influenced the cancellation, insisting President Uhuru Kenyatta should open the forum after he is sworn in if the Supreme Court upholds his win today. They’re said to have made the decision during a meeting with Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri after the burial of former Governor Wahome Gakuru. It is also claimed a no-show threat by NASA governors worsened the situation. The sudden postponement lifted the lid on the vicious power games, as the two political bastions battle for control of the influential CoG. The Star yesterday established that Jubilee is determined to kick out Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok from the helm. NASA governors vowed to snub the forum after their Jubilee counterparts maintained their stance. NASA wants Nanok, who took over from former Meru Governor Peter Munya in May, to remain in office for the remainder of his one-year term. “We were not going to attend if the induction would be converted into an election retreat,” a NASA governor told the Star. The two political protagonists are fighting viciously to have one of their own at the helm. Uhuru and DP William Ruto have fronted Kwale’s Salim Mvurya, who has served for two terms as CoG vice chairman. Jubilee is keen to have him occupy the seat so he can check-mate powerful Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Amos Kingi of Kilifi. In a dramatic turn of events, Mombasa was last week stripped of hosting rights because of Joho’s perceived hostility towards Jubilee. Uhuru is said to have asked the CoG to pick another venue — not Mombasa. NASA bosses accused the government of meddling.