The lecturers strike is set to continue after a meeting scheduled to sign a return-to-work formula to end the 28-day industrial action failed to happen. On Thursday, the government agreed to release Sh5.28 billion for the enhanced salaries and house allowances, raising anticipation of ending the strike. According to the union, the government is yet to address issues raised in the petition the lecturers union presented in Parliament, UASU has said. The meeting was between the University and Academic Staff Union and Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum . Speaking to the Star yesterday, UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the union representatives failed to attend the meeting as the IPPUCF was pushing for the signing of the return-to-work formula rather than ironing out other agendas, leading to the industrial action. Wasonga said the government had only released arrears it owed to its members, but was yet to tackle other demands in a petition brought before Parliament. “The strike is not about the funds, but an entire CBA, by releasing the funds, they also should give the status of the other agendas noted in the CBA among them, status of internal CBA's, status of pension, and discussions to jumpstart the 2017-21 CBA,” Wasonga said. According to the union, various universities owed its retired members close to Sh4 billion between 2010 and 2017 after they failed to remit pension funds. He also said only five institutions had honoured the signing of internal universities CBA’s among them the University of Nairobi, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology, Kenyatta University and Pwani University.   Lecturers petition According to Wasonga, the Senate had replied to a petition the union brought before the two Houses of Parliament. Wasonga said the union is ready to go before the House and iron out the issues that are affecting the lecturers. “This time round we want to address in length all the grievances affecting dons once and for all. It is good that the Senate has acknowledged our plea and replied to the petition we presented before it,” Wasonga said. However, Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum chairman Paul Kanyari urged the lecturer’s to call off the strike. He said the industrial action had disrupted learning in 31 universities. “The Education ministry is in the process of disbursing these funds to the respective bank accounts of all public universities,” Kanyari said. The CBA in contention was signed in March this year, ending a 54-day strike that started on January 19 and the government released Sh10 billion for the payment of arrears in June, but reverted to the old salaries after the funds ran out. The University of Nairobi has rescheduled exams to January, while Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and Kenyatta University have been closed.