KNUT national chairman Mudzo Nzili has been sent on terminal leave pending his retirement in May next year. Secretary General Wilson Sossion said in a statement on Saturday Nzili’s mandatory leave is in line with the law and has downplayed fears that this could be due to leadership wrangles.  "Six months prior to the date of retirement, an officer is granted terminal leave pending retirement. At this point, the union must plan a by-election in the preceding ADC or AGM," Sossion said. He noted that it’s a tradition for by-elections to be held while officers are on terminal leave. Sossion and Nzili have previously been entangled in leadership wrangles of the giant teachers’ union which have occasionally led to the duo taking contradictory stands during teachers’ strikes.  The Knut boss clarified that Nzili's exit plan was being executed in line with the Knut constitution which requires union officials to leave office upon attaining 60 years.  He said Nzili’s vice-chairman Samson Kaguma has also been sent on terminal leave ahead of his retirement on April 2 next year. Nzili will retire on May 16.  "Their positions shall be filled in a by-election during the 60th Annual Delegates Conference. Brother Wycliffe Etole Omucheyi shall assume office as the Acting National Chairman precisely on 16th November and preside over the 60th ADC," Sossion said.  Omucheyi is the second vice-chairman of the union. The by-election is expected to be held in mid December. "This matter should be brought to a total closure and I urge the delegates to the 60th ADC fo focus more on the success of the ADC and the critical issues affecting our members and the delivery of quality education in Kenya," Sossion said. He said officials in al KNUT branches countrywide must stick to the provision of the KNUT Constitution on retirement noting that their shall be no negotiations when one reaches the retirement age. He said there have been historical incidents where some officials falsified documents to change their retirement ages.        