 Wiper top officials yesterday dismissed claims the party had been sidelined in key NASA decisions.
 The leaders, who spoke to the Star, said the party’s standing
in opposition is “cordial and cozy.” Deputy party leader Farah Maalim
and vice chairman Victor Ogeto dismissed reports attributed to some members. “We are firmly in NASA. We know our objectives, which we will
pursue within NASA, anything else is diversionary,” Ogeto said. “I'm not aware of any squabbles or alleged bullying in
NASA.” Maalim also sought to allay fears that Wiper's relationship with other NASA partners
was headed for the rocks. “That is untrue. The leadership of Wiper can say
categorically there is nothing of the sort. Nothing could be further from
the truth,” he said. A section of Wiper elected leaders from Ukambani counties held
a retreat last week, where they allegedly voiced strong objection to what they
termed “bullying by ODM.” The leaders are said to have been restless over fears that ODM is
plotting to dishonour a legal MoU with Wiper and field Raila Odinga of ODM for President
in 2022. They argued the creation of the National Resistance
Movement, allegedly without their input, was akin to advancing Raila's 2022 agenda.  “We are preparing our
brand Kalonzo Musyoka for President for 2022 as per the agreement of NASA,
because we want to safeguard our place in that alliance and five years is a
short time,” Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana was reported as saying. “One of our key agenda in the retreat is to plan on how to strengthen
the party because we have a big dream for 2022.” An MoU signed between Wiper, ODM, Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC and
Moses Wetangula’s Ford Kenya bars ODM from fielding a presidential candidate in
2022 in favour of Kalonzo. But the unforeseen scenario in which Raila pulled out of the
October 26 presidential election could complicate the implementation of the opposition
pact. An apprehensive Wiper MP yesterday told the Star in
confidence that Wiper was not involved in the creation of the NRM. The NRM is the political wing,
which the opposition is using to lead the rebellion against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s
administration. The MP warned that ODM, which he said crafted the NRM idea, could
finally transform the outfit into a political party. “The formation of the National Resistance Movement was at first
tailored to axe Kalonzo, because someone would say NRM is a different political
outfit,” the MP said.