SOME Jubilee leaders, some
with senior positions in government, were bragging in town on Sunday that the Supreme
Court judges would rule in their favour. The leaders were having a meeting in a
hotel near State House when they were over-heard thanking each other for a job
well done. It is not clear what they had done but it was interesting enough
they seemed to know that the petitions would be dismissed for lack of merit! ***** THERE is panic is the Judiciary
after the Supreme Court upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election. Judiciary
staff are worried that President Uhuru
Kenyatta and his administration will target some of the staff they believe
cost them victory during the first petition. Some of the staff have told Corridors
that they have been told some of their colleagues will be arraigned in court in
the coming days and the Judicial Service Commission will deal with
others.  ***** DID NASA
leader Raila Odinga fly out of the country with a premonition of
the outcome of the Supreme Court ruling? A mole whispers to Corridors that the
former Prime Minister jetted out of the country for Zanzibar in neighbouring Tanzania on Sunday evening – the eve of
the eagerly awaited judgment. The topmost court, led by Chief Justice David
Maraga, dismissed two petitions seeking the nullification of President Uhuru’s
reelection. NASA will announce its way forward in five days. ***** DID the police
link the chaos experienced in Mathare on Saturday night
to differences over rent? Well, some NASA MPs are now questioning the
intention of the police who they claimed are speaking Jubilee language. The
first-term MPs were wondering why the police, who had just announced the start
of investigations, were so quick to suggest the ‘rent tussle’ even before the
probe got underway. The leaders were equally not happy with the police rush to
rule out ethnic cleansing motives before the sleuths kick-started their work. ***** A while ago, a section of former MPs from Central Kenya were
vocal, pushing for dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila
Odinga. But their pleas were received by harsh criticism from myriads of
leaders from the region who termed them as ‘political losers’. A section of
Mukurwe-ini residents even held protests against their former legislator Kabando wa Kabando for advocating dialogue.
Our moles have learned that Kabando, William
Kabogo, Martha Karua, Ndung'u Gethenji and other leaders ousted during the
August 8 polls backtracked after realizing that they would lose their political
grip on their region.