A stampede outside Kasarani Stadium almost cost lives yesterday as Jubilee supporters forced their way in to witness the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta for a second and final term. In a cruel turn of events, police had to fire tear gas at impatient supporters, who paid no attention to organisers’ pleas that there was no more space left. The thousands of supporters overpowered the security ring and broke gates as they forced their way in. No injuries were reported, but shoes and other personal items were strewn all over — an indication of what a nasty scamper that was. The situation around the gates worsened at around 10.30am, when more police officers moved in to help control supporters who were yelling to be allowed in. The officers were pushed away by the angry supporters. “Today is our day to celebrate our victory. Why are police locking us out?” asked Henry Njoroge, who said he travelled overnight from Laikipia to attend the ceremony. Hundreds of school and college buses from across the country snarled along the Mwiki-Kasarani road and around the stadium — indicating some had travalled from afar. In a largely military and judiciary affair, Uhuru and DP William Ruto took two oaths — allegiance to the Constitution and execution of office. This was a few minutes after noon in a fete witnessed by 10 heads of state and government. Judiciary registrar Anne Amadi administered the oaths in the presence of Chief Justice David Maraga, as the multitude thundered in jubilation. The President looked composed and assertive throughout the oath-taking procedure, occasionally getting drowned in the deafening sound from supporters, who filled the stadium to the brim. Twice, Uhuru was caught offguard when asked by Amadi to repeat the oaths after her. He managed to excuse himself and gained composure again to state the solemn words. Uhuru used the same Bible his father used at Independence, and the 2010 Constitution, which his wife Margaret — donning a full white dress, held for him. Clad in a grey suit, maroon tie and a white shirt, Uhuru arrived at the Thika Superhighway-based stadium a few minutes to noon under heavy security. The heavy deployment was evident as hundreds of police threw a ring around the stadium, as a police chopper hovered overhead to maintain an aerial view for maximum security. Kenyans who attended the jamboree waved flags and sang songs of praise for Uhuru and Ruto.