In the business world, this is a long-standing debate. It’s largely an unresolved issue – the question: Are managers leaders? One camp feels that leadership is the big, strategic picture while managing is a tactical affair concerned with the day-to-day running of the organisation. So: Should leaders manage, and should managers lead? In my career, I’ve found it difficult to neatly separate the two because I have seen and understand the folly of only being a big picture person, with little interest in the details. I call it The: big picture trap. Some people say, “I’m a big picture person, details bore me.” Well, interestingly, success lies in the details. You will never reach the big picture ignoring the details. Managing is as important as leading. None is more important than the other. The management professor, Henry Mintzberg, said “…managers have to lead and leaders have to manage. Management without leadership is sterile; leadership without management is disconnected and encourages hubris…” Managing day to day is as important as the leader’s strategic vision. Due to this divide, people have created mental blocks. Consequently, the supervisor who manages daily operations doesn’t see herself as a leader until she attains the management team. And the CEO is not interested in daily happenings because she’s been taught to disconnect since she has ‘more important strategic concerns. I don’t agree. Now, let’s be clear: Every manager can be a leader. You’re in a position to manage resources and lead people. Leadership isn’t far off. You can lead now. Think like a leader, act like a leader. Constantly take steps to improve your leadership skills. Every manager can and should lead. No excuses. Managing doesn’t bar you from leading. When managers are skillful leaders, it takes pressure off the visionary or leadership team. Remember, the organisation’s vision must be organized, communicated and effectively implemented at every level for it to work. Vision is useless if it doesn’t reach or is properly reflected at the lowest levels. We easily forget that: effective managers who lead carry the spirit of the vision and effect it in the daily operations of the organisation. If this isn’t leadership, I don’t know what is. It is important to understand that everyone who plays a role (at any level) in making a vision happen, is a leader – even managers. And top management needs to encourage this narrative. Leadership isn’t for a special few. Anyone can lead by simply expressing their uniqueness in ways that make the vision successful. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com