President Uhuru Kenyatta walked from Harambee House to the Treasury building for a meeting on Wednesday but some Kenyans don't think it was that simple. People jostled to greet Uhuru, a few managing to shake his hand. On Twitter, he wrote: "Walking to National Treasury from my office at Harambee House for a meeting with the economic team." Related: Uhuru meets economic team and AfDB, discuss country’s growth and transformation agenda  /PSCU Some members of the public noted the distance was short, Cliffe Browns saying he walked from Industrial to Mlolongo "na sijasumbua mtu na tweet (and yet I have not disturbed anyone with a tweet)". '@felloooh' echoed this sentiment saying NASA supporters walked from the JKIA to the CBD without bragging about it. Crowds received opposition leader Raila Odinga at the airport on Friday, when he returned from a 10-day tour of the United States. Another social media user said: "Wacha kutusumbua (Stop disturbing us. We walk on a daily basis and do not broadcast it." Chrisbrian Papai said: "Watu wengine wakitembea from JKIA they get teargassed. Wewe ukitembea ati ni news (When some people walk from JKIA they are teargassed. When you walk it is news)." '@BoldAlways254' wrote: "While you walk the economy is dead and buried. PR stunts are the last things we would want at this point in time, Kamwana."   /PSCU Igna Juma said: "So what? We walk daily and don't advertise it." Sayi John congratulated Uhuru and asked him if the walk made him happy. '@eliuds112' wrote: "Imagine walking and one teargasses you. How do you feel? That's what you've denied the majority in this country." NASA supporters braved tear gas and gunshots to walk with their leader.  /PSCU Other Kenyans said the President showed he was 'cool' and understanding. "What a cool President you are.You raise my pride as a Kenyan. In the meantime, never bother with these rebels who keep criticising you," '@jmnyamb37' said. Caroline Kimeli wrote: "I hope our economy will stabilise after the Supreme Court ruling, As a Kenyan, I trust that with your leadership the country will grow." '@Stormzy_blaz' said: "Very simple gentleman and President."  Uhuru attended the meeting as part of consultations before he outlines his plan for Kenya's growth. He isexpected to outline his economic transformation plan when he addresses the nation after his swearing-in on Tuesday. Today's meeting was the third in the last three weeks. Also read: [Statement] Uhuru's 'PR website' another show of Jubilee's incompetence - ODM Click here for more political stories