Governors in Rift Valley have resolved to complete all projects initiated by Bishop Cornelius Korir. Bishop Korir died at his residence in Eldoret town last Monday. He was 67 years old. The government has said it will give him a state funeral in honour of the peace work he did.  He will be buried inside the cathedral in line with the church traditions as concerns bishops who die in office. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok and Uasin Gishu’s Jackson Mandago said some of the projects will be named after Korir to honour his peace efforts. The governors, who included Joyce Laboso of Bomet, launched a kitty to raise funds for the projects, which include children’s homes and schools. Nanok led his colleagues, MPs and political leaders from Rift Valley who attended a special mass for the Bishop Korir in Eldoret town on Monday. The service was held at the Sacred Heart Cathedral where Bishop Korir will be buried on Saturday after a state funeral at the Eldoret Sports Club. Governors Stephen Sang of Nandi, Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo’s Stanley Kiptis were present. Nanok said leaders must emulate Bishop Korir by serving Kenyans with dedication and preaching peace. He said governors are united and would not focus on divisive politics.  “We lead counties and we shall remain united,” Nanok said. Mandago said the North Rift region was the main beneficiary of Bishop Korir’s peace work.  “We have lost a great man, a dedicated peacemaker and a nationalist, whose work will forever be remembered,” he said. The Uasin Gishu governor said the governors will ensure projects initiated by Bishop Korir are completed. MPs present included Oscar Sudi, Janet Koech, Sila Tiren, Samuel Moroto, Senator Margaret Kamar, Senator Samson Cherargei and woman representative Tecla Tum. Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut said Bishop Korir was a pillar of peace and selfless service to humanity.   Sudi said Korir was committed to ending banditry in Kerio Valley and his death should inspire current leaders to deal with the problem. Sudi urged Kenyans to avoid the economic sabotage being pushed by opposition NASA.  Turkana Central MP Lodepe Nakara said both NASA and Jubilee recognised Korir as a unifying leader. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to call NASA’s Raila Odinga and have dialogue to end tension.