Farmers in Western should abandon sugarcane and grow other crops to reduce poverty and improve food security, experts say. The sugarcane sector is collapsing, poaching is rampant, prices are low and many farmers are suffering. Farmers instead should grow maize, millet, sorghum and beans to to improve their livelihoods, they said. The advice was offered on Wednesday by experts from the One Acre Fund, the Kenya Agriculture, Livestock and Research Organisation and local leaders. They were speaking at a farmers’ training and field day in Kakamega. Acre Fund government relations officer Nephat Maritim said the fund has trained 300,000 farmers in Kakamega to grow maize. He said the fund has improved farmers access to certified maize seeds and market facilitation services. These farmer have been getting high returns on their investment for the past 10 years, he said “Our trained farmers have started to harvest 16 to 30 bags of maize per acre, despite challenges such as the armyworm invasion that has lowered production," he said. Maritim said his organisation is also testing soil to determine missing elements that can be supplied to increase yields. Western can be self-sustaining in food production if farmers diversify crops and engage in agribusiness, Dr Simon Wesechere said. He is executive director of the Rural Information and Agriculture Development Centre. “The region has all it takes to generate enough food, however, farmers must be ready to diversify their farming activities to make a breakthrough,” he said. Low-quality seeds, lack of information, erratic weather, pests and diseases have lowered yields. The region's sugar industry is suffering. Giant Mumias Sugar Company is reeling under huge debts, has curtailed its operations and failed to pay farmers for deliveries. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala, who invited the experts, said pilot projects by the One Acre Fund and others clearly show a huge, untapped potential. “They must borrow a leaf from the One Acre fund and training our farmers so we can increase our income base through diversification,” the lawmaker said. Meanwhile, Mumias Sugar will rely on private cane growers to supplement deliveries from contracted farmers. CEO Nashon Aseka has said management will harvest all contracted and non-contracted mature crops and swiftly deliver them to the factory. He said the price per ton will be based on the official government-regulated pricing formula. The company now pays Sh4,200 per tonne. “The company will pay for the cane proceeds within seven days of delivery,” Aseka said. He said the money owed to farmers for cane delivered earlier will be paid progressively as the factory stabilise operations. Private farmers have been given the green light to harvest their mature cane and deliver it to the miller, with their own transport. They can also ask Mumias for transport, the CEO said. “Alternatively, farmers may harvest their private mature cane and ask MSC to transport,” said the CEO.    