Governors have been put on the spot over the spending of millions of county funds on white elephant projects. In his report for
the 2015-16 financial year, Auditor General Edward Ouko accuses governors of abandoning ambitious projects despite having pumped millions of
shillings in them. The report says some of the projects
were initiated without feasibility studies. For instance, Kakamega residents did not get value for abandoned education projects that cost the county Sh50 million. “Projects worth
Sh55 million had either been abandoned or stalled whereas 90 per cent
of the project costs amounting to Sh50 million had already been paid,” Ouko
says. Former Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua is accused of blowing Sh23 million of Sh34 million for the construction of Nasha Market. The project stalled, denying the intended beneficiaries ease of doing business.  The auditor questioned the capacity of M/s Tealand Company Limited which was awarded the contract on March 30, 2015. "Physical verification reveals the project is incomplete and had stalled. No explanation or approvals were provided for these structural alteration. It is likely that the contractor may lack the capacity to undertake a contract of this magnitude," Ouko says. The auditor said the two counties could not account for huge funds spent on various activities.= In Mandera, residents have not benefited from a theater equipment worth Sh17.9
million bought in May 2015. The auditor says it had never been used. “The equipment was
damped and stored in a room which was under renovation. No proper
explanation was given why the equipment had not been put to use more
than a year after they were procured and delivered,” Ouko says. Former Vihiga
Governor Moses Akaranga is on the spot over 74
unidentified projects costing Sh408 million and six abandoned
projects worth Sh12.8 million. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago was put on the spot over delayed implementation of 162 projects costing Sh2.9 billion during the 2015-2016 financial year. The administration
planned to implement 136 projects costing Sh775.7 million under
different ministries and departments during the 2015-16 financial
year. “In view of the
foregoing, the Vihiga County Executive did not deliver most expected
projects to residents and therefore did not achieve all its
development objectives for the year under review,” the auditor
says. Akaranga is
implicated in flopped construction of incinerators, equipment used to
burn waste material, at four health facilities including Hamisi,
Sabatia, Emuhaya and Isiarambatsi health centres.
 The incinerators
were to be constructed within eight months between June 2014 and
February 2015 as provided in the contract between the county and M/s
Mikeko Enterprises. The auditor,
however, says a site visit to Emuhaya health center in Novermber
2016, which was 19 months after the expiry of contract period, showed
that works had not began. “In the
circumstances, the County Executive may have lost the sum of Sh7
million paid for construction of incinerators that were never built,”
Ouko says.
 The audit reports
show that most governors did not implement projects during assigned
financial year forcing suspension of identified new projects for the
next financial year. Interference to
implementing projects meant for the next financial year violates the
County Government Act, 2012 requiring the county's budget to be based
on the annual development priorities, objectives and the performance
targets by the county. Uasin Gishu Governor
Jackson Mandago is on the spotlight over delayed implementation of
162 projects costing Sh2.9 billion allocated to 12 departments for
2015-16 financial year. The auditor says the
projects were behind the schedule yet Sh2.9 billion had been spent on
93 project representing 76 per cent of funds allocated as at June 30
last year. The auditors
verified 60 projects with an allocation of Sh1.2 billion and that
Sh733.8 million was already spent on them.
 “Five projects
budgeted to cost Sh261 million on aggregate had stalled with 40.9
million already spent on them. The management has however not
explained how it will ensure that the stalled projects are revived
and completed for the benefit of the residents of Uasin Gishu,”
Ouko says.    