A Nairobi court has ordered Kenya Airways to reinstate it's finance director for being sacked unfairly and directed a compensation amount of 12 months salary from last gross salary due on January 19, 2016. Employment and Labour Relations Judge Monica Mbaru, while delivering her ruling, stated that Alex Mbugua was unfairly sacked and should report back to work on November 13 in the same position. "I find no justifiable reasons to deny the claimant primary remedy of reinstatement as such shall redress all unfairness against him being taken of his position, he ought to have maintained as at January 19 last year," Mbaru said. Mbugua, through his lawyer John Njomo, had emphasised on being reinstated back to his position and Mbaru said that "to order otherwise will not address unfairness against him to quantify damage cost in monetary terms would leave him in more damage than the reinstatement".  Mbugua claimed that he was sacked for raising the red flag on suspicious ticketing and suggesting a review of the airline’s deal with Dutch KLM. He claimed in his wrongful dismissal suit that he was terminated for raising the alarm over irregular ticketing practices in some overseas stations such as London, and for recommending a review of KQ’s relationship with Dutch national carrier, KLM. KLM is Kenya Airways’ second largest shareholder with a 26.73 stake. The two airlines also have a cooperation agreement that sees them do joint marketing for each other on some routes, including Nairobi-Amsterdam, Nairobi-Paris and Nairobi-London. He had sued the national carrier in a bid to reverse its decision to fire him on January 18 for alleged underperformance. The national carrier’s decision followed its record Sh29.7 billion pre-tax profit recorded in the 2014-2015 financial year, he argued. Kenya Airways had accused Mbugua of intentionally skipping an urgent performance review meeting before the human resources committee on January 18, 2016 which was conceived as insubordination hence his sacking. Justice Mbaru added that Kenya Airways will benefit largely due to the vast knowledge of Mbugua in his area of work and internal knowledge of their systems and operations gained over the last eight years, holding same post without any incident of indiscipline.