Businesses came to a standstill in Limuru town Wednesday
when one of the local taxi drivers daughter was announced to have topped in one
of the school’s with 423 in the KCPE. They drove her around the streets, market place before going
to school, with traders and residents clapping for her with others asking what
was happening. The taxi driver Joram Muchiri and her daughter Maureen Wangu
were placed on the rooftop of a Toyota Probox, and the taxi’s and boda boda
motorcycles in the procession. Muchiri applauding the government’s efforts of making
changes in the education ministry and the management of schools. He said the school were managed by parents teachers
associations (PTA), but were scrapped and are now managed by board of
management (BOM, whose main chore business is to ensure academic has risen. The schools head teacher Peter Mbugua was present and
congratulated the girl, saying 13 candidates scored over 400 marks. He also applauded Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for the
changes he introduced even though leaders, parents and stakeholders had
opposed. “The changes had been opposed. They felt were as if they
were distractive. However, no one knew they they would bring such sweet dreams”
Muchiri said. He urged taxi drivers and residents who accompanied them at
the institution to support the government’s strategies to improve education
since its their children’s who earn good results. “It is our children who scores good marks that enables them
to join better high schools” he said urging parents to encourage and motivate their
children to work hard academically. “Some parents do not motivate their children, they treat it
as a command and the children will hate it thus losig morale” he added. Wangu said who said would want to join Alliance Girls High
School revealed her dream was becoming a neurosurgeon. “I urged the students I left behind to work hard and have
beautiful dreams since it enables them to leave a mark everywhere you pass by”
Wangu advised.  The taxi operators cerebrated Wangu’s performance by
offering free rides within the town from 10am up to 1pm. “We are so exited. We are not charging anything to anyone
who is traveling within the town. It’s for a few hours just to tell our
customers and resident happy we are” Joseph Njenga, a rider said. Ends………….  