State House operatives were laughing their heads off yesterday when NASA leader Raila Odinga announced that he would be sworn in as President on Jamuhuri Day and go straight to the House on the Hill. The operatives believe that Raila is not serious about his remarks and that he is merely raising his stakes and looking for relevance. One of them was however cautious and warned his colleagues not to take Raila’s announcement lightly.  ***** Gideon Moi played a prominent role yesterday as heads of state and government arrived for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing-in ceremony. The Baringo Senator, the son of the former President, welcomed most of the foreign leaders and kept them company in the VIP lounge as they waited to head to Kasarani. It is not clear why Gideon was given such a prominent role a few days after President Kenyatta visited his father. ***** The people who plotted ways of blocking NASA from doing anything yesterday should be given an award for their creativity! First, they brought a lorry and parked it outside MP Simba Arati’s gate and claimed that it had broken down. The lorry was parked in a way that Arati could not exit his compound. While that was happening, another group hired exhausters, which dumped raw sewage in Jacaranda Grounds, the venue of the NASA meeting. When NASA supporters started arriving, they found piles of smelly human waste all over the venue! *****  Why did some NASA Governors attend the swearing-in ceremony of President Uhuru Kenyatta, despite their leaders boycotting it and calling a parallel meeting? We are told that the NASA leaders were unhappy with the governors who defied their directive not to attend and some of them will soon be the subject of discussion in their respective parties. ***** That Tanzanian President John Magufuli skipped the swearing-in ceremony of President Uhuru Kenyatta is no secret. What is a secret is the reason why the Tanzanian leader did not travel to Nairobi. We are told Magufuli was not comfortable because he has been warned that some leaders were planning to protest his recent decisions regarding a number of Kenyan cows and thousands of day old chickens. ***** A number of officials in the diplomatic community are said to be afraid to take on President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. Despite corruption, tribalism and nepotism being rife, a number of the diplomats respond to governance issues cautiously, so that they are not fought the way the two fought the ICC. They are also afraid of data firm Cambridge Analytica, which serviced the campaign.