The global prevalence of diabetes in children is increasing by 3.5 per cent annually, according to the World Health Organisation. This figure has prompted the government to step in through hospitals and community health centres to educate the public. Dr Joyce Mbogo, a paediatric endocrinologist at Aga Khan University Hospital, explained: “Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder in which the body attacks its own insulin-producing pancreatic cells. Insulin is a hormone that all cells need to move glucose from the blood to the cells and use it for energy. When insulin is insufficient or absent, blood glucose can rise to dangerous levels, damaging various organs in the body. It can be life-threatening.” The signs and symptoms of Type 1 diabetes include frequent urination, increased thirst as a result of accumulation of too much sugar in the body, weight loss and stomach pain. These can be detected in school and at home by caregivers. Once they are recognised, Dr Mbogo says, one needs to go to the nearest health facility or chemist and have their blood sugar level measured. If the blood sugar reading is high — above 11.1 mmol/L — one should see a healthcare provider at the nearest hospital for further management. MANAGING THE CONDITION Dr Mbogo says that to manage diabetes successfully essentially means to function like a normal pancreas. This includes having the child or caregiver give insulin prior to major meals and when the blood sugar level is high, checking their blood sugar levels prior to major meals and eating healthy.  One of the first hurdles for families is that to help the child, one must prick him or her with a needle. This will get easier for all involved. There are new devices as well as some in development that make blood glucose testing and insulin injections less painful, easier and more precise. “The insulin administering devices include insulin pen, which comes in different colours. It is portable, easy to use and, therefore, ideal for young diabetic patients, who can use it to administer insulin while in school. Furthermore, many diabetics find insulin pens almost painless, as the needle is extremely short and thin,” Dr Mbogo says. “The pen consists of a cartridge that is the insulin reservoir and needle. Once the cartridge is loaded, you simply inject the needle and press the button to deliver the insulin. The insulin pen needles are replaced every three days. Extended use of the same needle for more than three days makes it blunt and can be painful at the area of injection. “The other new gadget is an insulin pump. It is a small device almost the size of a smart phone that can be easily carried around. It is programmed to deliver small amounts of insulin continuously, mimicking the production by the pancreas for normal functions of the body. The programmed rate is determined by your healthcare professional based on your personal needs. “The pump has a reservoir where insulin is stored, which has a tube attached to it. The insulin is then dispensed into the body through a patch or a needle. The two can be placed on parts of the body similar to where you would give insulin injections, which is the arm, parts of the stomach area and the thigh. The infusion set is changed every two to three days, thus less injections.”  Dr Mbogo emphasised that children, parents, caregivers and school teachers need to undergo intensive diabetes education. She said education empowers the child and caregivers to provide adequate care and, in return, have good outcomes.