The US military did not kill
any civilians when it accompanied Somali forces on a deadly raid
in August, US Africa command said late on Wednesday, the first
public statement on the findings from an investigation into the
raid. The two-paragraph statement referred to a joint raid by US
and Somali troops on the village of Bariire. Eyewitnesses told
Reuters that 10 civilians were killed and the military had been
drawn into a local clan conflict. The survivors and relatives of the dead said they wanted
blood money and an apology. The US military denied that any civilians were killed,
although it did not offer any details on the investigation. It
described the dead as "enemy combatants" but stopped short of
saying they were members of al Shabaab, the al-Qaeda linked
insurgency. "After a thorough assessment of the Somali National Army-led
operation near Bariire, Somalia, on August 25, 2017 and the
associated allegations of civilian casualties, US Special
Operations Command Africa (SOCAF) has concluded that the only
casualties were those of armed enemy combatants," the two
paragraph statement read. "Before conducting operations with partner forces, SOCAF
conducts detailed planning and coordination to reduce the
likelihood of civilian casualties and to ensure compliance with
the Law of Armed Conflict. US Africa Command and the
Department of Defense take allegations of civilian casualties
very seriously." Despite promising a public investigation, the embattled
Somali government has made no public statement on the raid, and
some Somali security officials said privately that it would not,
for fear of alienating the powerful clan whose members were
killed. The United States has stepped up operations in Somalia this
year after President Donald Trump loosened restrictions on the
military in March. A Navy SEAL was killed there in May, the
first US combat casualty there since a Blackhawk helicopter
was shot down in 1993. The United States has also ramped up its use of airstrikes,
conducting twice as many strikes this year as last year.