Two people have died of cholera in Mombasa with another 25 cases confirmed, county Health executive Hazel Khoitaba said yesterday. Khoitaba said 80 people had been admitted to various hospitals with diarrhoea, from which the cholera cases were confirmed. Jomvu, Kalahari, Makande and Mshomoroni are the most affected areas. Khoitaba said all diarrhoea cases are being tested to confirm whether they are cholera or not. “Majority of the cases are just diarrhea,” Khoitaba told the Star on the phone yesterday. Mwembe Tayari Health Centre has been identified as an isolation center for those diagnosed with cholera. Khoitaba blamed poor hygiene, especially in slum settlement for the outbreak. “The county government is doing everything it can to contain the spread of the disease,” Khoitaba said. Residents have been asked to improve personal hygiene to curb the spread of the disease. “There are small cases in different areas,” county health director Khadija Shikely said. On Tuesday, Shikely engaged village elders on ways of finding sustainable solutions to dealing with cholera. Three health facilities -Majengo dispensary, Portreitz and Utange health centres - have been identified to act as treatment centres. "The move is to ensure there are no congestion at the Coast Provincial General Hospital," Shikely said. More health officers have been dispatched to the hospitals. Disease surveillance, spraying, safe water, general sanitation, clean food and health education are some of the measures the county has taken to curb cholera spread. On Monday, a woman was rushed to CPGH with severe diarrhea. She later died while receiving treatment. Her child also died in their home in Makande from similar symptoms. Shikely said the two cases were later confirmed as cholera. On July this year, Association of Public Health Officers of Kenya reported 14 death cases in 12 different counties from January. This month was also scandalous after Jacaranda hotel and San Valencia were closed after allegedly posing cholera risks. The counties reported by the officers included Nairobi, Garissa, Kericho, Kiambu, Tanariver, Nakuru, Turkana, Narok, Wajir, Murang’a, Vihiga and Mombasa.          