The nation is waiting to exhale: All eyes are on the Supreme Court to see if it will confirm Jubilee’s win in the October 26 election.  Somehow, that is increasingly not the focus of many. The focus is on what NASA will do next. Whichever way the Supreme Court rules, NASA are now fully in gear ready to drive their agenda for a repeat election but in the event that does not happen, then they intend to swear in Raila Odinga as (their) President. A friend I talked to says Raila is holding a gun to Kenya’s head and that we either make him President or he blows up the nation to smithereens. Those Kenyans who would never have voted for him are now suddenly sobered into the reality of prolonged civil strife that could still end in a split. So the gun is aimed at our head. Sure enough, the person who will help Raila pull the trigger will be none other than Siaya Senator James Aggrey Bob Orengo.    VETERAN OF THE SECOND LIBERATION A natural contrarian and a political leader since he was 29 in 1980, Orengo has seen it all. He has taken part in more elections than Raila. In the latest, the Siaya Senate race, it is rumoured that he will go down in Kenya’s history as the candidate who never appeared a single day on the campaign trail and yet got elected by a landslide. Senator Orengo is no ordinary politician. He is a straight shooting, fire-breathing, threat-giving politician, who has no kind words for President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee government. He has proved his total loyalty to not just the idea of a Raila presidency but also to the reality of it. He is one of the longest-serving legislators and among Kenya’s most-experienced politicians. He was only 29 when he became an MP. He has served time in exile, taken part in controversial court cases and has been on the forefront of what came to be regarded as the Second Liberation of this country. There has been talk in various circles that are now looking at him as the most capable successor to Raila not just in Luo politics, but also at the national level. Of course Baba is not about to retire but, in the event he calls it a day, then Orengo is the man. In so saying, however, there is a complicated arrangement in NASA, in which Raila is supposed to endorse another presidential candidate, but that is a situation for another day. The man of the moment is Orengo. HEIR APPARENT OR HEIR PRESUMPTIVE At the height of the Daniel Moi regime, Orengo sensationally claimed in Parliament that former Energy Minister Nicholas Biwott was President Moi’s heir apparent, while Vice President George Saitoti was the heir presumptive. Naturally, Saitoti was legally next in line to succeed Moi and was, therefore, heir apparent. However, it was already in the public domain that Moi was not quite at ease with him and Orengo dug in to claim him as heir presumptive instead of the coveted position of heir apparent. Saitoti would never get to succeed Moi and as fate would have it, one young man named Uhuru Kenyatta would get the better of all those who had lined up to succeed him. Orengo was both right and wrong. He was right that Saitoti was in a shaky position in the succession politics of that time, and he was also wrong that Biwott was the preferred successor.    A BEARDED SISTER BY ANY OTHER NAME I extensively interviewed former Eldoret North MP Chelagat Mutai just prior to her death. She became Kenya’s first refugee in Tanzania in 1981 after she fled to the country into self-imposed exile. She had been charged for faking mileage claims as an MP and she somewhat knew what the outcome would be. Having previously served time in a Kenyan jail, she was not willing to return to the cooler. It was during the interview that I discovered that Orengo, and her had been branded as part of a group of ‘seven bearded sisters’. She sought refuge in Tanzania. A difficult candidate to interview, she only gave measured responses. But yes, she confirmed she met with Orengo in Tanzania.     STRONG DECOY In September 1981, seven MPs were listed by the CID for faking mileage claims. Unlike today, this was a time when MPs could be charged in court and jailed. They were under the law. Both Orengo and Mutai were in the list. After being charged in court, Mutai, who had previously spent two-and-a-half years in jail in 1976, knew she was in for another stint behind bars. On October 15, 1981 she checked into a Nairobi hotel and then quietly took the night bus to Tanzania via Namanga. On arrival, she notified the Tanzanian authorities of her presence and proceeded to Dar, where she was granted refugee status. She was welcomed by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and she even met him to discuss the situation in Kenya. This was a time when the two countries were not in a very good terms. Nyerere ordered that she be given a job with a leading government-owned newspaper as an editor. Before joining the University of Nairobi in 1970, Mutai had a brief stint at the East African Standard as a journalist.   ORENGO GOES TO TANZANIA Orengo’s legal problems were more complicated. Other than the mileage claims, he had other legal problems involving his legal practice. In November 1982, he was charged in court for embezzling Sh34, 500 client’s money. He was also charged with issuing a bouncing cheque and forgery. He was then arrested and released on his own bond of Sh50,000 and two sureties of a similar amount. It was during the lull that he fled the country, initially suspected to have gone to Uganda. In fact, Uganda’s Vice President Paulo Muwanga denied Orengo’s presence in Uganda and invited Kenya to use Interpol to track him down. Later, President Moi would claim Orengo was in Zimbabwe but that again proved to be false.    THE HOUR OF TROUBLE Orengo joined Alliance High School in 1965 (classmates with my father-in-law John Lang’at, who is very proud of that association). A naturally brilliant student and a gifted thespian, he went to study Law at the University of Nairobi, and was active in student politics (with Mutai). In 1980, he became one of the youngest MPs after winning the Ugenya seat at a by-election, beating former Cabinet Minister Mathews Ogutu. He was in Parliament with Chelagat, and instantly got into trouble for his contrarian views earning the tag of being one of the ‘seven bearded sisters’. When he fled Kenya for Tanzania, the law caught up with his two sureties, Kibet Saina Tengekyon and Kasanga Mulwa (later Justice). Trial magistrate Abdul Rauf ordered them to pay the State Sh50, 000 each after Orengo failed to appear in court. (To understand this amount of money, a loaf of bread at that time cost Sh2 and it now costs Sh50 ). Rauf reduced the amount to Sh40, 000 for each of them. In what amounted to state persecution, Orengo’s passport had been seized to reduce his chances of flight but he fled anyway. On January 13, 1983, Orengo lost his Ugenya seat after being absent for eight consecutive sittings without the Speaker’s consent. Mathews Ogutu recaptured the seat. Orengo later returned to the country and continued with his legal practice until he returned to Parliament.   YOUNG TURK/YOUNG THUG Throughout the 1990s, Orengo proved to be an astute political player, giving hard-hitting parliamentary debates and doubling that with activism and antagonistic positions. He was a part of the group loosely referred to as the Young Turks, which included fellow lawyers Kiraitu Murungi, Gitobu Imanyara, Paul Muite as well as Raila Odinga and Michael Kijana Wamalwa. These ‘Young Turks’ gave Moi’s government sleepless nights. The Kanu politicos quickly labelled them the ‘Young Thugs’ for their militancy. He was involved in everything from street protests, walkouts in Parliament to disrupting parliamentary debates. He once led the disruption of the Budget speech (being read by Musalia Mudavadi, now NASA principal) and greatly embarrassed President Moi, who pensively watched from his seat. After being named the official leader of the opposition, Jaramogi Odinga appointed Orengo his shadow Attorney General. Odinga died in 1994 without seeing the dream and Orengo, addressing mourners his funeral, pointed to the casket, saying therein lay one truly great man. Indeed, Orengo remained the pillar of Ford Kenya parliamentary strategy and ensured the opposition provided a formidable challenge to the government.    ORENGO’S FINEST HOUR After a while, Orengo defied the Odinga political machine in Luo Nyanza and opted to go it alone. He ran for President in 2002 under the Social Democratic Party, but failed miserably. He had to rehabilitate himself after five years out in the political cold by re-aligning himself with the Odinga name and returned to Parliament. He has never looked back since then. He would be appointed to the Cabinet as Minister for Lands in 2008 and served until 2013, when he returned to opposition politics. Undoubtedly, this year has been Orengo’s finest year just yet. His victory at the Supreme Court against the IEBC and Uhuru and having the latter’s win overturned was his finest hour.    HEIR APPARENT Raila’s failure to produce an offspring of his stature — capable of taking over the empire — is just more reason why Orengo has become the heir apparent. In the party ranks, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was the heir apparent and indeed he seems to have diminished with each passing day. Orengo has clear advantages in leading the Luo nation. He has been there and done that. Like Raila, he has lived in exile, been jailed, been a victim of police brutality, been elected, lost elections and all.   TYRANNY OF BRAINS After damaging revelations about Joho’s academic abilities or lack thereof, the brilliant mind of Orengo, aptly displayed in the Supreme Court, is now indubitably etched on the mind of every Kenyan. And Joho, who is the deputy ODM party leader, knows he is no match to this fellow. Orengo led the ‘Tyranny of Brains’ at the Supreme Court and plays in leagues Joho can only stand in awe of. In this very sense, Joho is arguably the biggest ‘loser’ in opposition victory. He has since concentrated his mind on seceding the Coast from Kenya together with his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi. Opposition leadership seems to now rest on the shoulders of Orengo should Raila call it a day.    FUTURE PLANS Orengo is respected right across the political divide, not for his brains but for his contribution to the expansion of the democratic space in this country. He also comes out as independent-minded person, who follows his deepest convictions. He also has close relatives and family in the Mt Kenya region and of course with a powerful ally such as Jimi Wanjigi with deep pockets sufficient to fund a presidential campaign, this could be Orengo’s moment to break into national leadership. Besides, Orengo does not have the kind of enemies that Raila has picked up along the way, which are to blame for his misfortunes — artificial or otherwise. Orengo has no personal record of corruption, except a few misdeeds as Minister for Lands and his penchant for (very) expensive suits. Although he is reputedly not quite well-established financially, despite years in leadership and also in government, he may have his redeeming grace in the allies who may choose to back him. For the time being, Orengo’s singular task is to overturn Jubilee and ensure that Raila is President. He has trained his mind on this singular objective, and his hand is no doubt on the trigger!                                