I should start by condemning the Jubilee administration for working in cahoots with its MPs to try and muzzle the Political Parties Fund. It is unfortunate that despite Parliament having enacted the Political Parties’ Act, 2012 that makes it mandatory for 0.3 per cent of the national revenue to be allocated to the Fund, this law is disregarded. Political parties have continued to suffer at the hands of this Jubilee administration. They have never been allocated the money that was due to them. All this is a scheme to cripple the parties. This is why the Orange Democratic Movement filed the case at the High Court demanding its money. So, it is irrelevant whether you have the requisite numbers or not. The National Treasury has blatantly defied the law that requires the political parties be given 0.3 per cent of national revenue. This is a bigger issue than who qualifies and who doesn’t. Whether you qualify, you might end up getting nothing at all. NASA leader Raila Odinga withdrawing from the presidential rerun for genuine reasons will not make a political party die. After all, other conditions such as having the required numbers in Parliament remain to qualify for the funds. If they can give us the money that has been kept for the last five years, it is enough to keep us running for some time, before we ask for more. Treasury complying with the 0.3 per cent funding to the political parties first is a case in court and the most important thing to be addressed. ODM losing the court case in demanding its Sh4 billion share from Treasury means Parliament also played a role in sabotaging the political parties. This beats the irony of changing the Standing Orders at the tail end of the last Parliament, where we created a Standing Committee that is going to look into special funds. The committee is likely to be chaired by an independent MP. Some of the special funds it is going to look at include the Political Parties Fund and the Equalization Fund. However, I wonder how Parliament is creating a whole committee with membership when they are not giving the parties the amount of money they should be given according to the Constitution. Parliamentarians are forgetting that they came to Parliament through parties and are starving them. The perpetrators are members of the ruling party. The writer is the Suna East MP      