Poor nutrition has led to a growing number of fat, unhealthy children in Kenya and most of Africa, the World Health Organization says. The Africa Nutrition report, released by the WHO yesterday, reveals that while the number of stunted children has increased, childhood obesity is on the rise. In Kenya close to a third of children under five year are stunted. The Ministry of Health also says child obesity is increasing, especially in urban areas, due to poor nutrition.  The WHO report calls for a 40 per cent reduction in the number of children under five who are stunted, 50 per cent reduction of anaemia in women of reproductive age, 30 per cent reduction in low birth weight, no increase in childhood overweight, increasing the rate of exclusive breastfeeding to at least 50 per cent and reducing wasting to less than 5 per cent.  The report, the first of its kind by WHO in the African region, uses data from national surveys of 47 countries, including Kenya, dating as far back as 2000. It raises the alarm on critical gaps in the nutrition data available across the countries.  Lead author Dr Adelheid Onyango, who is WHO Africa’s Adviser for Nutrition, says while overweight rates in children might still be low, the proportion and numbers are increasing in all age groups. “Among adults for example, overweight, including obesity, affects about one in three women, with rates of over 40 per cent in Gabon, Ghana and Lesotho,” she said.  According to the WHO regional director for Africa Dr Matshidiso Moeti, “The numbers and trends highlighted in the report show that we need to work harder to avoid the long-term consequences of malnutrition and poor health on our children’s future prosperity, including the increased risk of diet-related noncommunicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension.”  She added that the report underscores the need to work harder on collecting and using accurate data. Nutrition information available for most countries is more than five years old and the use of routine data for nutrition monitoring is extremely limited.  The report points out that while the prevalence of stunting decreased between 2000 and 2016, the absolute numbers of stunted children are in fact increasing: from 50.4 million in 2000 to 58.5 million in 2016.  Stunting, or impaired growth and development, happens when children experience poor nutrition, disease and lack of psychosocial stimulation. It occurs before a child reaches the age of two, and the long-term consequences include poor school performance, low adult wages, lost productivity and increased risk of nutrition-related chronic diseases in adults.