The European Election Observer Mission has said the repeat presidential election was far better than the August 8 election. In a preliminary statement issued on Tuesday, it said the IEBC worked under difficult times while preparing the rerun. “The IEBC improved the standardisation of results forms and enhanced transparency through the projection of tallying at constituency centres for agents and observers to see the tabulation process,” the team, led by Marietje Schaake, said. “In 17 of 19 constituencies observed by the EUEOM, the tallying process was positively assessed as being orderly and transparent.” The problems faced by the IEBC included anti-IEBC protests staged by NASA outside IEBC offices across the country, court cases adjudicated close to Election Day and an uncertain legislative framework. “The IEBC did not manage to hold effective consultation with the parties to assist with the challenges it was confronted with,” the mission said. There was significant improvement in electronic result transmission and online publication. This was better than the August poll where transmission failed in a number of polling stations. The IEBC made better use of mobile network providers and modified software, the mission added. “On Election Day, nearly all polling stations that opened reportedly submitted results data through the KIEMS devices, with 34A scans then made immediately available online,” it said. The mission withdrew a number of its observers from within because of insecurity fears. It recommended that the grievances over the electoral processes be addressed through judicial channels for a legally mandated remedy. The team also urged politicians to allow the courts and the IEBC to work independently and without undue pressure. Security agencies must be fully accountable for their actions, the mission added. It said the agencies must carry out independent investigations into their officers actions and make publicly available information on the measures taken against members who committed crimes. The observers added that demonstrations should be peaceful. They also recommended that politicians should urgently engage in dialogue to chat the way forward. Dialogue should focus on long-term electoral reforms to prevent problems that were evident in the two elections from recurring, the team said. The problems could be detrimental to the nation if left unresolved.