A section of Jubilee MPs yesterday told off their NASA colleagues who have vowed to swear in opposition chief Raila Odinga. The MPs Nelson Koech (Belgut), Hillary Koskei (Kipkelion East), William Cheptumo (Baringo North), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi), Julius Melly (Tinderet) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) dismissed the plan, saying it has no basis in law. "This is a clear indication of desperation by the opposition that has found it difficult to accept the will of the people. It is high time NASA came out and told their supporters the truth that Jubilee won the election," Koech said. Sudi said the President can only sworn in in the presence of the Chief Justice. On Sunday a group of NASA legislators said that if President Uhuru Kenyatta is declared the winner, their only option would be to swear in Raila. Siaya Senator James Orengo and a host of opposition MPs at a rally in Nairobi warned that Raila, through his National Resistance Movement, is pushing for a revolution against Uhuru, which Jubilee is taking lightly. “One of resolutions in the motions passed in the county assemblies for formation of the People's Assembly states that a person elected by 30 per cent of voters cannot be recognised as the President. Stand up for your rights. Say enough is enough. We must reach Canaan,” they said. Cheptumo, a former Justice and Constitutional Affairs assistant minister in the coalition government questioned NASA's motive. He said Orengo, a senior counsel,o should be in frontline advising the opposition that what they are suggesting is not supported in law. He said Raila withdrew from the repeat presidential election conducted by the IEBC on October 26. . "The only other results available are those for the 2013 General Election. The August 8 presidential results were nullified by the Supreme Court, which ordered a fresh poll. Raila withdrew from the race, citing imaginary issues," he said. Melly, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, dismissed the secession calls, saying only a few counties in Nyanza support the idea.  He said, "Even the so call People's Assemblies will not see the light of the day." "Kenyans should not panic by the politics NASA is trying to sell. It is not the first time we are seeing such moves. When they were defeated in 2013, they came up with the idea of a referendum. You know what happenedd," he said. "This time round after another defeat, they are talking about secession, and the so call People's Assemblies. All these will go nowhere," Melly added.      