2016 Kenyan Premier League’s Most Valuable Player Kenneth Muguna is on the verge of joining Albania’s FK Tirana. The former Western Stima play maker has been subject of discussion this season as far as the transfer is concerned, and reports have it that Tirana are willing to part with in excess of Sh5million to get their man. A source from K’Ogalo has told Goal that the transfer might be made public by early next month. “It is true, Tirana are desperate to get Muguna, and the player has expressed his willingness to join them. We all know he (Muguna) is a talented player, but if we have a good offer and the player is willing to go, we cannot stop him.” Muguna was in Harambee Stars squad for Cecafa, but he has pulled out due to a groin injury. Meanwhile, AFC Leopards midfielder Allan Kateregga has been named in the Ugandan squad for next month’s Cecafa Senior Challenge tournament. Kateregga is currently playing for KCCA, on loan. The Challenge Cup, which brings together all the national teams of the 13 member countries, will be held from December 3 to 17. Uganda are the current champions having won a record 14th title in Addis Ababa in December 2015 after beating Rwanda 1-0 in the final. Full squad; Goalkeepers: Isma Watenga (Vipers SC), Benjamin Ochan (KCCA FC), Nichoals Sebwato (Onduparaka FC) and Ikara Tom (Kirinya Jinja SS). Defenders: Wadada Nicholas (Vipers SC), Kiyemba Ibrahim (Sc Villa Jogoo), Isaac Muleme (KCCA FC), Aggrey Madoi (Police FC), Juuko Murushid Simba-Tanzania), Timothy Awanyi (KCCA FC), Savio Kabugo (Proline FC), Bernard Muwanga (Sc Villa Jogoo). Others are: Tom Masiko (Vipers SC), Mutyaba Muzamiru (KCCA FC), Tadeo Lwanga (Vipers SC), Stephen Mugisha (Police FC), Karisa Milton (Vipers SC), Mucureezi Paul (KCCA FC), Allan Kateregga (KCCA FC), Allan Kyambadde (Sc Villa Jogoo), Nelson Senkatuka (Bright Stars FC), Derick Nsibambi (KCCA FC), Hood Kaweesa (Police FC), Batte Seif (Bright Stars FC), Saddam Juma (KCCA FC), Daniel Isiagi (Proline FC) and Basse Methodious (Mbarara City FC).