Suleiman Shahbal has threatened to instigate a private prosecution against agitators of self-rule whose act he said amounts to "treason". This came a day after Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi’s Amason Kingi said they will begin the process of seceding Coast from Kenya. They, together with a host of MPs from the opposition NASA, cited political and economic marginalization. Read; [VIDEO] Coast must secede to end marginalisation, Joho and Kingi say “For the record, if this nonsense persists, please be forewarned that I will file a private prosecution case of treason against these irresponsible politicians. Do not divide Kenya,” Shahbal who lost to Joho on August 8 said. The Jubilee politician said teething problems can be solved without a break-away. But NASA leaders alluded to frustration meted out by the state, mentioning police brutality and vote thievery. Joho said their voice no longer mattes “as seen in the August election”. Also read: [VIDEO] Joho and Kingi's secession call selfish, may trigger violence - MRC Shahbal said secession call is Raila’s voice and wider plan to capture power. It came hours after NASA wing of National Resistance Movement announced boycott to products and services from Safaricom, Brookside Dairy and Bidco. They said the companies helped “subvert” the will of the people. More on this read;NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott “This is political sycophancy answering the call from Raila who is now desperately clutching at straws for political relevance,” Shahbal said adding the “revolutionist” are “hot air”. He said the agitation is a “pipe dream” because the same leaders failed to create a working partnership of Jumuiya ya Wa Pwani. This is a Coast economic bloc formed by coast governors, professionals, technocrats and academicians in 2015. It is not active because of political infighting and leadership wrangles. Shahbal warned against repeating the same mistake after secession calls were again made by in the 60’s. “Arab and Swahili politicians agitated for “Mwambao” or self-rule for the Coast fearing domination from Nairobi… Mijikenda tribes led by the Late Ronald Ngala rejected,” he said. Shahbla said Ngala feared the Swahili - Arabs could dominate. He said Ngala fought for Majimbo (devolution) in 1963 before he gave up on the idea after dissolving KADU for KANU. “In retrospect, this was a bad idea. We lost the opportunity to define our own priorities and access to development resources. Fortunately today we have Majimbo all over again,” he said. Shahbal said Coast leaders are to blame for their own marginalization. He said lack of education among leaders has cost the region development. “Most of our political leaders have limited or fake education credentials – are these the people who will recognize the value of education?” he said. Shahbal was blatantly pointing to Joho’s academic qualification. The presidency and Jubilee have said the governor forged his credentials but Joho has denied. However, Shahbla said the hallmark of any advanced society is an advanced education. The banker said the collapse of cash crops has caused them a fortune. “Those of you in political power better get to work and start bringing solutions instead of following Raila blindly,” the economist said. More on this: Dado dismisses secession claims, urges Coast to elect Uhuru Also read: Secession talk stirs Coast amid election uncertainty