A battery of influential lawyers never slept on Wednesday night. The high-flying lawyers appearing in the presidential petition spent the better part of the night with a powerful State House operative at a five-star hotel. The lawyers, who appeared engrossed in deep discussions at a reserved room at the hotel often drove in and out, carting in documents that they perused for a long time. A little bird whispered to Corridors the lawyers retreated for a short nap in their hotel rooms at around 5.30am, before they left for court. One of the lawyers has apparently moved his ‘wife’ into the hotel for convenience’s sake. ***** A former MP working for Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s team is reportedly unhappy that dark forces have connived to block his ascendancy to an influential position at City Hall. The former vocal MP was angling for a powerful county position, but his bid hangs in the balance after State House allegedly opposed the move. While the House on the Hill has been deliberately sanctioning some operations at City Hall, it is not clear why the Presidency is opposed to the appointment of the former lawmaker. However, word has it that turf wars pitting Harambee House and its Annex wing are responsible for the standoff amid a vicious scramble for appointments. *****  A lawmaker from Rift Valley and his henchman have become a nuisance at a key parastatal. The MP has been making frequent visits demanding huge sums of money from the firm’s CEO without justification. To make matters worse, the MP has been invoking the name of a powerful figure in government whenever he turns up to collect the cash. Senior staff at the state agency are worried that the MP is part of a cartel that is brazenly siphoning out public funds and fleecing the firm that has been struggling for quite a while. Efforts by the CEO to ward off the MP have often flopped, as he fears political reprisals if he fails to play ball during this political crisis. *****  A governor petitioner from Nyanza caused a stir at a Kisumu hotel yesterday, when he openly bragged that he was on the verge of winning his petition. The former MP could not hide his excitement moments after the High Court heard that there were glaring irregularities in the entry of gubernatorial results by IEBC officials. “It is just a matter of time, we are headed for a by-election,” the former lawmaker told revelers at the hotel and whoever else who cared to listen. Surprisingly, the former gubernatorial candidate is said to have started assembling his campaign machine in anticipation of a by-election.