The High Court has ordered Nakumatt Holdings to serve all the 90 creditors with court documents in their insolvency case. This is after the troubled retailer applied for an administration order in the same court on Monday, proposing the appointment of Peter Kahi of PKF Consulting Limited as an independent administrator to perform his functions in the interests of its creditors. The move by Nakumatt was after most of its creditors, especially suppliers and landlords, denied it a chance to table fresh debt settlement plan in 60 days. While a company is under administration, there is a moratorium on certain legal processes, including a moratorium against enforcement of security over the company’s property or the exercise of a right of forfeiture by peaceable re-entry, without the consent of the administrator or the approval of the court. ‘’Under the administration and continued trading of the company will provide an opportunity for the business to reassess its financial position and options for restructuring and the time to implement a business turnaround,’’ submitted Nakumatt. Nakumatt is reeling under almost Sh40 billion accumulative debt that has affected its operations tremendously forcing it to close a number of branches in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Justice Joseph Onguto directed that the creditors should file their responses in four days before the hearing starts on November 8. Brookside, who are owed the largest sum at Sh457 million, is among the 10 creditors who want Nakumatt to be wounded up. Others include New KCC, Redstar International, Kisima Management Limited, Kenindia Insurance, Nexus Holdings, Chania Veterinary, Kevian, Haco and Lemon Limited. When contacted by the Star, Brookside’s director of milk procurement, John Gethi, declined to comment on the matter, saying that the company would only issue a statement once the current court process on the matter was over. “We cannot comment for now as the issue at hand is still under active litigation,” said Gethi. Tuskys Supermarket, which has expressed interest in acquiring a 51 per cent stake in Nakumatt, has since offered to inject Sh650 million into the troubled retailer and recurring payment guarantees of between Sh1.5 billion and Sh3 billion for the outstanding debt. This even as various investors continue to jostle for the chain’s space and stakes in Uganda and Tanzania. Already, South African retail chain ShopRite has occupied three stores previously occupied by Nakumatt in Uganda. Last month, Nakumatt was ordered out of the busy Junction Mall. 