Kisumu leaders have warned police against use of excessive against NASA supporters, saying it will only radicalise them. Led by Governor Anyang Nyong’o, the leaders criticised the killing of five people who turned up to welcome NASA Raila Odinga following his US trip. Raila on Saturday claimed 15 people were killed during the confrontation with police on Friday. Police spokesperson George Kinoti on Friday said five people were killed by mobs for looting during the procession. Kisumu assembly speaker Onyango Oloo warned that the treatment NASA supporters received was dangerous and uncalled for. He likened it to oppression and bad governance. He said the extrajudicial executions and torture will radicalise youths who feel they are being targeted by the government. "It is a disaster in waiting. One day, Kenyans will say enough is enough and revolt against the government and no one will stop them from taking over power," Oloo said. “The more you continue killing us, the more we will get radicalised. We will not fear your bullets and guns,” he added. Nyong’o condemned the treatment Raila got, saying it was undeserving for a former Prime Minister. “I have never seen a Prime Minister being treated the way Raila was treated on Friday. It is total shame and unacceptable,” Nyong'o said. He said NASA will not relent in its mission to liberate Kenyans from bad governance. “We are dedicated to liberating this nation from an authoritarian regime," Nyong'o said. which is determined to do way with devolution and restore Kenya to one party system that was known under Kenyatta and Moi.” “We are saying never again shall we allow that. We are telling Raila to keep the course. Let him keep determined and victory will be won. The people of Kenya are behind one to the man,” Nyong’o said. Outa said the opposition leaders and supporters will not relent on their quest to ensure justice in the country. He told Jubilee administration to take note of the power of the people on Friday saying more is in the offing for their push for election justice. The former Nyando MP commended NASA supporters who turned out in large numbers to welcome Raila back from US. He added that nobody should underrate the power of the people. “They resisted the regime of Uhuru, they resident the regime of Ruto and this rotten government. Beware because the power belongs to the people and not an individual,” Outa said.      