The government has bought only 140,000 bags of maize from farmers amid fears of possible hoarding of the commodity as the subsidy programme ends. There are fears that farmers could be holding on to their maize with expectation to cash in on a price explosion following the end of the subsidy. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett has assured that the government will ensure market stability. "We will continue monitoring the situation to ascertain that what millers are producing tallies with the maize they received under the subsidy programme," Bett said. He said the government will ensure consumers are not subjected to high flour prices. Sources at the National Cereals and Produce Board said heavy rains being experienced in the North Rift have hampered drying of maize.  In August, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that the government had set aside Sh6 billion to buy maize from farmers and ensure that flour prices are kept affordable. The government is buying maize from farmers at a cost of Sh3,200 for a 90kg bag. In May, the government introduced the subsidy program to reduce the price of a two-kilo packet of maize flour to Sh90 after it had increased to a high of Sh150 following a shortage of maize in the country. Two weeks ago, supermarkets reported panic-buying of maize flour ahead of October 26 repeat presidential elections. The trend led to a decrease in the stock of maize flour in supermarkets. “Even though the situation has normalised, supplies from millers have also decreased and we expect prices to rise soon,” Naivas supermarket managing director Kimani Mukuha said. Cereal Growers Association chief executive Anthony Kioko said the ongoing harvest in North Rift will be interrupted by the rainfall. “This will increase the percentage of rotten grain and increased cost of labour in drying the maize hence an increase in post harvest losses," Kioko said. He said the Sh3,200 price per bag offered by the government is inadequate and should be increased to caution farmers from such risks.