The Mombasa assembly has approved the seven executive nominees seconded by Governor Hassan Joho. They are Twafiq Balala (Transport, Infrastructure and Public Works), Kevin Munyoki (Youth Gender, Sports and Cultural Affairs) and Godfrey Nyongesa (Environment, Waste Management and Energy). Others are  Hazel Koitaba (Health), Fatma Awale (Water, Sanitation and Natural Resources), Maryann Mbaruk (Finance and Economic Planning) and Edward Nyale (Lands, Planning and Housing). “I have already written to the governor informing him that the assembly recommended the seven be considered for the respective roles,” county assembly clerk Saalim Juma said on Friday. Joho’s spokeperson Richard Chacha said the nominees might take oath of office next week. But concerns have been raised about Nyale’s qualifications, with an MCA terming them ‘suspicious’. Kipevu MCA Faith Mwende said Nyale’s academic record does not conform to the responsibilities he will undertake. She also alleged Nyale might be used by landgrabbers. “There are some people who want to use him to ‘own’ some land. Time will tell,” Mwende said without mentioning names. During his vetting, Nyale, an ODM election board commissioner, said he was the chairman of Teleposta Pension Scheme and “deeply” tackled land matters. He cited the resolution of land disputes, compensation and development. Nyale said he holds a certificate from the Trustee Development Programme, Kenya. Mwende said land matters in Mombasa are controversial and require an experienced executive. She said Nyale’s  Bachelors in Education degree, will not help. Nyale was categorical he will ensure the controversial Sh200 billion  Mombasa Housing Project launched by Joho is realised. Mwende said she will continue to fight Nyale’s appointment, despite being the only one in 43-member house opposing him. In its report, the Appointment, Rules and Procedures Committee said it was satisfied with Nyale’s credentials, experience and capacity. “The committee resolved to recommend that the county assembly approve the nomination of Nyale,” the report tabled at the chambers partly read. Mohamed Hatimi, a member of the committee, said Nyale does not need a degree in land management to head the department. He quoted Section 35 of the County Assembly Act, saying it allows a bachelors degree holder to be appointed an executive irrespective of the course. Shanzu MCA Maimuna Saalim said the move to block Nyale’s appointment is a witch hunt. “Why has she zeroed in on Nyale while there are others like him?” she asked. Saalim said no one will grab public land as “the law is very clear”. Last week, a group of Coast politicians declared their determination to secede, saying the region has been marginalised by governments since Independence. Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi led more than 12 MPs, senators and woman representatives in making the announcement at his office.      