The national government has initiated three water projects at the Coast. Water PS Fred Segor on Saturday said the three projects – the Mzima 2, the Baricho Lot 3 and the Mkanda Dam projects – will alleviate the perennial water shortages in the region. The Mzima 2 water project will pass through Mariakani and Kaloleni in Kilifi county to the Coast Water services Board reservoirs in Mazeras. Baricho Lot 3 will ensure a steady water supply in Malindi, Kilifi and Mombasa towns. Segor on Friday said each of the three tourist towns will have a dedicated pipeline. The project includes sinking of new wells at the Baricho water works in Malindi. Two of the wells have a capacity to produce 350,000 cubic metres of water per day, while the third has a capacity of producing 450,000 cubic metres. The project is in its final stages. The Mkanda Dam in Kwale is expected to lessen water problems in Lunga Lunga and Msambweni subcounties. Segor said the Sh2.7 billion Baricho Water Project will be completed in December next year.  The PS toured the Baricho Lot 3 project and said he was happy with the progress. He was accompanied by Coast Water Services Board CEO Jacob Torutt, Board's acting chairperson Sureya Hersi and senior ministry officials. “Lot 1 of the project is currently on course and is almost complete. It was to be completed in July, but due to some unavoidable circumstances, it failed to meet the intended deadline. The contractor has assured us that Lot 1 will be complete by December this year," he said. The project, which will cover 93km will supply water to more than 200,000 people. “We shall do that in a bid to enhance water supply to the city, which is currently grappling with a huge population. That means we shall be pumping a daily uptake of 50,000 cubic metres of water to Mombasa,” the PS said. The PS urged the county governments to improve water distribution to residents. “It is the duty of the devolved governments to ensure water is available to the residents. They have the critical role in ensuring no water rationing takes place,” Segor said.          