The International Centre for Transitional Justice says police vetting has failed to achieve is goals and instead it has emboldened the culture of abuses and impunity. Subsequently, ICTJ wants the vetting to stop and the National Police Service Commission to give an interim report to allow experts to assess its viability as a reform measure. In a paper titled “Failure to Reform: A Critique of Police Vetting in Kenya,” ICTJ says the government has failed to undertake reforms to root out corruption and abuses from the service and restore public trust in the police. The 12-paged paper says four years into the vetting, the commission has missed an opportunity to confront the deep-seated culture of impunity and to break up corruption networks. It accuses the NPSC tasked with vetting over 77,000 officers for corruption and failure to vet senior police officers implicated in graft and other crimes. “Since the vetting began in 2013, Kenya has witnessed continued police misconduct, suspected extrajudicial killings and a lack of professionalism in investigating gross human rights violations. This has undermined efforts to foster public trust in the National Police Service,” Christopher Gitari, head of ICTJ’s office in Kenya and author of the report said. This comes as police are increasingly put on the spot for breaking the law. Analysts blame this on ethnic and political bias within the police coupled up with failed command. ICTJ says vetting was necessary to promote peace and reconciliation in the country. “Yet, despite its importance, police vetting has been largely defanged by repeated shortcomings and mismanagement by the NPSC, leaving police ranks essentially intact,” the paper notes. It cites ‘extremely’ low removal rate of just two per cent as the most serious challenge hampering vetting. Such a low removal rate, Gitari says is an indicator of weak investigations and, by extension, a defective vetting process. He faulted the current rate of vetting 627 officers per year, arguing it will take 122 years to vet all 77,000. He accused NPSC of failing to provide information on how it makes decisions to retain or remove officers. He also says lengthy interviews of officers if time wasting.    ICTJ accused the commission of being “limp and non-committal”, on human rights abuses by officers. “The Commission has failed to substantively respond to concerns raised by human rights defenders monitoring the process that would have allowed for a better understanding of the weaknesses of the vetting process and proposed interventions,” Gitari said recommending that all vetting hearings be held in public, with full access for members of the media, and that the National Police Service Commission fully constitute its senior staff. “Only a reconstituted e Commission could be successful in spearheading the next phases of the vetting process based on lessons learned. Until good faith reforms are put in place to create a functional police service, impunity will continue to reign in Kenya,” Gitari said. “Vetting processes like Kenya’s are designed to screen current public employees to determine if their prior conduct warrants their removal from public institutions. The goal of vetting is to align the police force with existing laws and the Constitution, in order to create a police force that merits the trust and admiration of the population,” he added.  