Two people were killed in cold blood at Kimwanga shopping centre in Bumula constituency Bungoma County on Tuesday night. The two Constant Nyonesa a bread vendor in the area and Geoffrey Mukenyenee a teacher at Carmel girl’s secondary a local school in the area were killed after they responded to distress calls from neighbors who had been attacked. The two were killed about two hundred meters apart at Kimawnga shopping centre by the armed thugs Neighbors and relatives of the two deceased men said that the gang of about five people attacked the village at midnight and were armed with axes, daggers, pangas and other crude weapons The gang stole mobile phones from Emanuel Baraza a local businessman after they broke into his shop with a huge stone before they cut him with a panga on the head. Four other people who were attacked and seriously injured are admitted at Bungoma county referral hospital  and are receiving treatment from deep pang cuts. Residents said that police respond was very slow as the attackers took a whole three hours reigning terror on residents. The residents said that were they did not get a phone or money they ended up beating the owners of the shop or house they broke into The wife of the deceased Rebecca Nakhumicha Nyongesa told journalists who visited their home on Wednesday morning that they were asleep at night when they heard noise outside and his husband went outside to check before he met his death. ‘My husband insisted to go outside after he thought the thugs had attacked his sister before he met them they hit him with the axe on the head and he fell down and died on the spot,’ she said amid tears from her eyes She said that her husband was the bread winner as she is jobless and does not know where to begin to assist the four children he has left her with. She appealed to the county government to intervene and assist her family take care of the children and educate them. Bumula OCPD Julius Muthini said that police have so far arrested four people in connection to the killings. Muthini said that police are pursuing close links that could lead to the arrest of the attackers. ‘We are calling upon members of the public to give police information that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrators of this heinous crime  we promise to treatt it with confidentiality,’ he said He said that police will mount regular patrols and asked residents to work close with police to wipe out increasing spate of crime rate in the area. Sylvester Makokha resident said that the county has neglected them in terms of addressing security issues. We are praying for the county government to investigate and bring this people who are believed to be behind the wave of crime in this area area ,’ he said He asked Wangamati to enact security lights at the market to help curb insecurity in the area. He said that police officers who have overstayed in the area should be transferred and bring in new cops who will ensure security is beefed up. Ends...