Kenyans are super disappointed with the news of the postponement of Jamaican legend Freddie McGregor and Mighty Culture's December 2 concert at the KICC. The management of Head Cornerstone Entertainment has made the decision due to the current political environment, which has resulted in uncertainty and potential security concerns following a protracted electioneering period. The organisers said in a statement, “The current political climate, which has adversely affected the required enabling environment to stage a concert of the intended caliber has forced us to arrive at this decision. We have had to take this precaution in the interest of the safety of our fans, artistes and supporters.” The headline artistes, McGregor, fondly referred to Big Ship, and Mighty Culture, have wished Kenyans peace and prosperity as they go through the current political process. Both artistes are looking forward to performing in Nairobi, and promised their fans an even bigger show next year. The artistes were expected to jet into the country a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing in tomorrow. An agitated fan posted on social media, "The political pressure in the country has made it difficult to assure the fans, the artists and the supporters of their safety. At first, the sponsors had an issue with the name Kenyatta Hill (lead star for Mighty Culture) since the way the country is politically polarised and that name being on the posters may remind people of politics because the President bears name Kenyatta. And since they felt uncomfortable as it was, we decided to promote Mighty Culture ft. K.Hill." The first edition of Jamhuri Reggae Festival, held last year at Safaricom Stadium Kasarani, was a runaway success and saw Jamaican reggae stars Capleton and Queen Africa stage amazing performances. The organisers are also behind the hugely-successful Damian Marley concert at the Carnivore Gardens – the biggest reggae concert in Kenya this year. Fans who had purchased tickets for the concert will get refunds but the tickets will also be valid for use at the new concert date. 