Despite some similarities and complementary interests, relations between states in Eastern Europe and those in Eastern Africa over the years have not been very close. To identify gaps in the regions' diplomatic relations, the Centres for International Security and Affairs and the Embassy of Ukraine in Kenya last Wednesday held the second Nairobi International Political Forum. The forum explored challenges facing East Africa and Eastern European relations. These include limited political commitment to strengthening relations, low or lack of awareness of current realities in the two regions, lack of sufficient institutional mechanisms to advance bilateral trade and investment. They also include uncertain positioning of Eastern European countries within the European Union and their relationship with Western European countries in Africa. Those present included United Nations Director General Sahle Work Zwede, Ukrainian Ambassador Yevheil Tsymbaliuk, his Poland counterpart Marek Rohr-Garztecki, Algerianenvoy Salah Francis Elhamdi and representatives from the Foreign ministries Sudan, Ethiopia, Egypt, Oman and Sri Lanka. Those from academia included Prof Ambassador David Kikaya of USIU, Prof Tomas Milej of KU and Dr Shazia Chaudhry of UoN. Youth Fund chairman Ronald Osumba, Wahu Kagwi (Kepsa) and a representative of the Office of the President. CISA managing director Joel Okwemba said the genesis of the relations between Kenya and Eastern and Eastern Central Europe can be traced to the African liberation struggle, which coincided with the Cold War. The first official visit by a Kenyan delegation to the East was by First Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Foreign minister Joseph Murumbi. Before the trip, Murumbi said, “The purpose of this delegation was, first of all, to come to understand the Russians, to try to get economic aid, military aid and scholarships.” The visit yielded commitments to fund the referral hospital in Kisumu, scholarships and weapons. And looking at established diplomatic relations, the priority areas are largely centred on those same fields of engagement — trade, arms and military-technical support, medicine and education. In 2013, for example, Ukraine exported Sh13 billion (US$143 million) goods to Kenya, while Kenya exported goods worth Sh925 million (US$10.1 million). Despite opening its embassy in Nairobi in 1964, the trade volume between Kenya and Poland has remained low. According to the Trade Analysis Report by the Export Promotion Council, bilateral trade dropped to $31 million in 2011 from $37 million in 2010. Between 2007 and 2011, the trade balances favoured Kenya. Kenyan imports from Poland were mainly textiles, machinery, electronics and vehicles; while exports to Poland were mainly a few agricultural commodities. On one hand, Kenya’s export to Poland grew on average by 19 per cent between 2007-11, rising from $7.9 million. These exports were tea, canned pineapples, cut flowers, coffee, fish, and sisal bags. In 2015, the value of the Polish exports to Kenya stood at $78.40 million and $28.67 million in the first half of last year, based on the latest available data. Exports to Poland amounted to $31.49 million in 2015 and $14.76 million in the first half of 2016. Interestingly, Kenya’s key exports to the EU, such as vegetables, are missing in its exports to this market and flowers, fruits and coffee are of negligible amounts compared to what is imported. This is despite the existing preferential trade for the African Caribbean Pacific member countries and the EU meaning Kenyan products have no tariff barriers for most products exported into Poland. But in March this year, Poland was to open a trade office in Nairobi to deepen trade and bilateral relations. To enhance these relations, student and artiste exchange programmes and other programs were proposed. The two regions are to engage more in areas of mutual interest at the UN Security Council. It is also necessary to shed the colonial mentality and engage more with Eastern European states based on national priority areas through joint projects and specialist niche areas. Such initiatives, the Nairobi International Political Forum and other forms of dialogue will enhance relations between the two regions and benefit them both.