The IEBC has given the opposition the greenlight to proceed with its push for a referendum seeking to split Kenya into two. Chairman Wafula Chebukati was responding to Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma. He said he can pursue the matter but must adhere to the law. Kaluma last Thursday submitted a Secession Bill to the IEBC after writing to Chebukati on October 2 asking if the commission had set up procedures to hold a referendum to amend the Constitution to split the country. Chebukati’s three-paged response seen by the Star highlights constitutional provisions Kaluma should follow and states the changes made on the Election Act in addressing constitutional ambiguities Raila Odinga’s Cord faced during its Okoa Kenya drive. “A referendum question on an issue other than that contemplated in Articles 255, 256, and 257 of the Constitution shall be decided by a simple majority of the citizens voting in the referendum,” Chebukati says, citing the new clause introduced to Section 54 of the Election Act. Kaluma wants the creation of two new countries, the People’s Republic of Kenya and Central Republic of Kenya. The Secession draft Bill lists at least 25 counties which will form the People’s Republic of Kenya. He said they have been oppressed and marginalised by successive governments since Independence. Any attempt to redraw Kenyan’s boundaries defined under Article 255 of the Constitution provides that the initiative by pursued through two lawful procedures. “Upon review, the commission is of the considered view that the proposed Bill is entirely within your purview in terms of the aforementioned provisions of the law,” Chebukati says. The first procedure under Article 256 allows Kaluma to follow a parliamentary initiative or pursue the process through the popular initiative provided under Article 257. Kaluma, a constitutional lawyer, doesn’t want to go through Parliament on grounds both the Jubilee dominated Houses are “under State capture.”     Kaluma can start collecting at least a million signatures from registered voters.