Heartbroken relatives of the victims whose bodies are yet to retrieved after the helicopter crash at Lake Nakuru are still camping on the shores waiting for retrievals. Thirty-nine days later, the families are enduring the agony praying and hoping the bodies of their loved ones will be retrieved soon and given a decent send-off. Still missing are the bodies of Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika’s bloggers Sam Gitau and John Mapozi. Five people They were among five people aboard the chopper, including blogger Antony Kipyegon, pilot Apolo Malowa and Kihika’s friend Veronica Muthoni, who have since been buried at their respective ancestral homes. “We have been camping at the lake shore since the crash happened, hoping our loved ones will be rescued. We are helpless, only left to rekindle their memories. We are in tears every evening when the rescue team winds up their mission awaiting to start the following day,” William Mwangi, Gitau’s father, said yesterday. He added “We spend sleepless nights thinking about our loved ones who perished more than a month ago. It has been like decades to us, watching helplessly. We can only pray, wait and see if the recovery will be successful.” Jonathan Kertich of the National Disaster Operation Centre said 40 divers have been combing the waters for more than 12 hours every day, hoping the retrieval will be successful. Last week, the team recovered two more doors and a headlamp of the copter. “So far, we have recovered a total of four doors, two pairs of clothes believed to be of male adult persons are among the personal items which have been recovered for the pas few days. They were recovered from the point where the plane’s main body,” Kertich said. Kertich promised the families they will not stop the search until all the bodies are retrieved.  remain calm He requested them to remain calm as the search continues. The search includes the Sonko Rescue Team, the Kenya Navy, Kenya Police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service and divers from Naivasha among others.