Kenya Sevens top try scorer Collins Injera said he has adapted to play maker role ahead of the new season which starts in Dubai tomorrow. Injera, who has 244 career tries in the series since making his debut in 2006, said he has adjusted to the new role from last season under head coach Innocent Simiyu. “ Last season was the first time I was playing as play maker away from the wing, where I used to be fed passes by my team-mates. This time round, I must create space and opportunity for others to score and I am growing into that role. I am confident I can play better this season,” he added. Injera had a long running battle with England speedstar Dan Norton who now leads the overall try scoring chart with 261 tries but Injera said he is not interested in individual accolades this time. “We had a battle with Norton but my goal and priorities have changed and the team comes first. We have to start winning and be consistent. There is no point of being the top try scorer yet we are playing in the challenge trophy or lower ties categories,” he noted. Injera alongside stand-in skipper Oscar Ayodi and Willy Ambaka are the most experienced players in the squad and will be expected to offer leadership and mentor the other players in the absence of regular skipper Andrew Amonde, who is out recovering from a hernia injury. “We are mentoring some of the guys in the team especially the new players while those who have been here for the past two or three seasons are learning quickly,” he said. Injera expects to see an improvement in the team fortunes this time round starting in Dubai. “Last year, we had too many off the pitch distractions but this time round we started our programme early in terms of strength and conditioning and the boys are in good shape and raring to go,” added Injera. Kenya face Canada, South Africa and Uganda in Dubai and the talismanic Mwamba forward said it will be a hard fought pool. “We have had close battles with Canada and then an African derby with South Africa and Uganda which will be close,” he added. The team arrived in Dubai on Monday evening and have two training sessions in readiness for the match opener.