NASA legislators have demanded the immediate release of 22 fishermen allegedly arrested by Ugandan police. Led by ODM national chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi, they said an explanation must be given for the "repeat occurrence". Mbadi asked Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to "up his game" and send officers to protect the fishermen. "Why can't we deploy that kind of force to protect the Kenyan people yet we deploy it to protect ballot boxes? Why don't we deploy the same resources? All of us are tax payers," he said at Parliament buildings on Wednesday. "Before self-determination, we are still in Kenya. If we don't belong in Kenya we should be informed so that we find our way forward. If you have a government that does not treat you as a Kenyan, why should our people pay taxes?" Secession talk has gone on for weeks now following Opposition leader Raila Odinga's concerns about the two presidential elections. So far, NASA leaders have asked their supporters to boycott products by Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside. At the Coast, Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Amason Kingi (Kilifi) are pushing for secession, their primary argument being that they and their people have suffered discrimination. More on this: NASA mulls constitution review as it launches People's Assembly Also see: [VIDEO] Envoys oppose Coast secession, Joho and Kingi adamant "UHURUTO MUST HELP NYANZA" Mbadi noted President Uhuru Kenyatta swore to defend the rights of Kenyans but that he is "not doing anything". "We know you hate the people of Nyanza so much but this is about the integrity of the people of Kenya," he said. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto campaigned on development and unity among all Kenyans. Mbadi asked the Jubilee Party bosses not to ignore the people of Nyanza and go to their aid. "Uganda's security [officers] go past boundaries, terrorise Kenyans and take money from fishermen here," he noted. Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo accused the government of providing security only to protect its interests. "You cannot have a government that only produces security when they are killing our people. We did not elect him (Uhuru) and we will go into mode two," she said, without elaborating. "People can be governed either directly or by their representatives. The government has been unable to resolve issues to do with fishermen. Most of our Islands are under Ugandan occupation." Nyatike MP Tom Odege said the government should declare its position where the Nyanza region is concerned. "If government is tired of Nyanza, we're ready to go it alone. We'll not force ourselves into a relationship that's not working," he said. In his response, Boinnet said he did not have details of the reports but noted the fishermen may have been arrested for breaching the law. "We told everyone at Migingo Island to live in accordance with the law. Anybody who breaks the law must face consequences," he said. There has been back and forth on Migingo Island where Ugandan fishermen have been accused of harassing their Kenyan counterparts. The last time the issue of the Island came up, both governments agreed to meet for long-lasting solutions. However, no clear information has been made available on how the matter will be handled. In contention is whether the island is in Kenya or Uganda. On March 10, Ugandan security officers stopped a voter registration exercise saying IEBC officials went to the Island without their knowledge, and while aware the ownership of the island was still in dispute. Two IEBC clerks were arrested and their equipment confiscated as they registered Kenyans. More on this: Migingo Island row to be solved diplomatically, says CS Omamo Read: Tension in Nyatike after Ugandan fishermen invade Migingo Island