The struggles bedevelling the listed retailer Uchumi came to the fore yesterday, after it made public its financial position. The company’s audited results for the year ended June 2017 showed the retailer recorded a massive Sh2.8 billion drop in sales in the last one year. The empty shelves that have become the order of the day for the chain, saw sales drop to Sh2.58 billion, compared to Sh6.42 billion the previous year, a whopping 97.5 per cent drop. The retailer’s profit before tax for the year shrunk more than a half to settle at Sh2.13 billion, compared to Sh5.45 billion posted the previous year. Even so, the closure of branches in Tanzania and Uganda enabled the retailer to cut on losses by 39 per cent from Sh2.8 billion in 2016 to Sh1.7 billion in the year under review. ‘’Improved cost management implementation resulted in significantly improved loss position for the year. The board and management continue to implement initiatives aimed at recovery and turnaround in performance, including streamlining operations, strengthening management and implementing improved operational processes,’’ read a statement from the company. However, Uchumi was one of the top five gainers at the NSE, with its shares selling at Sh3.45, up from Sh3.35 on Tuesday. The retailer explained that discussions are ongoing with a potential strategic investor and a government shareholder loan is imminent with the expected release of Sh700 million. In January last year, an investors’ annual general meeting resolved to identify a stable investor ready to pump in Sh5 billion by way of debt capital, convertible debt instruments or equity capital. The retailer’s chief executive officer, Julius Kipng’etich, revealed that talks with the potential investor commenced on August 1 and hopes to complete all transaction processes in the next 120 days. The cash-strapped listed retailer has historically grappled with financial instability, forcing it to seek bailouts from shareholders, financial institutions and even selling some of its assets. After posting an after-tax loss of Sh2.8 billion last year, the retailer successfully lobbied for a government bailout of Sh1.8 billion to support its operations. In January this year, it received the first Sh500 million which was used to settle its debts with suppliers and is expecting the balance to be issued in two installments of Sh700 million and Sh600 million Auditor General Edward Ouko in his qualified opinion cited possible effect on the comparability of corresponding and current figures for the consolidated and separate financial performance and cash-flow as a result of loss of control of business in Uganda and Tanzania.  