KCPE candidates yesterday wound up the examination, and the focus has shifted to marking, set to start a few weeks after the completion of the KCSE exam. The Kenya National Examinations Council has not indicated the exact date when marking will begin, however traditionally the process takes place between mid-November and early December. According to Knec acting chief executive Mercy Karogo, those involved in the marking will be drawn from every part of the country and will be deployed to various stations. “We are still working on the guidelines on who will go where and once we are done, teachers conducting the exercise will be required to confirm their availability,” she said. A new technology for marking will be used which promises to reduce the time taken by about half. However, insha and composition papers will be marked manually. It is not clear if Knec will reduce the number of staff in this year’s exercise since the marking of other papers will be conducted using newly acquired scanning machines. Last year, the council contracted about 20,000 teachers to mark exams. Similar measures employed in the 2016 examination marking are expected to be maintained in this year’s marking, among them restrictions on access to the marking centres by unauthorised persons, prohibiting taking exam materials from the centres and the ban on the use of electronic gadgets inside the marking centres. The examiners will also be required not to disclose their identity as markers or divulge any information acquired in the course of their work. Knec also reduced venues of marking centres within Nairobi and its environs as a security measure to prevent compromising of the marking process. According to examination officials, this year’s examinations had fewer hitches. This is the second time the national examinations have been conducted under the new directives issued by Education CS Matiang’i to curb cheating. “Last year we experienced a few cases where those handling the exam containers lost the keys, leading to a few delays but this year things have fallen into place,” KICD director Julius Jwan said.