The political crisis in the country is hurting preparations for the 17th annual Lamu Cultural Festival, which kicks off tomorrow. The number of visitors is expected to be fewer than last year — and could be the lowest since the festival started 17 years ago.  There are fewer donors and sponsors than last year. Organisers budgeted for Sh8.6 million, but less than that amount has been received. The political tension has made visitors wary, but security officials say the situation is under control. The festival celebrates Swahili culture. It showcases traditional dances, donkey races, dhow races, swimming competitions, henna painting and crafts display. Organisers had expressed confidence it would be successful. But they now say they have financial problems. Lamu Cultural Promotional Group secretary general Feiswal Miji yesterday said their budget was Sh8.6 million but less than half the amount has been received. Only a few organisations and individuals are willing to sponsor the event — unlike the previous festivals, which had sponsors battling for space. The festival runs until Sunday in Lamu Old Town, a Unesco world heritage site. Miji blamed the financial problems on the polarised political environment. “We’ve already witnessed a low number of sponsors willing to fund the event. Usually, by now, we should have exceeded the budget. We could have been talking about Sh10 million plus,” he said. He said most of their big sponsors are foreign firms. Many of them have ignored the fete because of the unpredictable political atmosphere. Miji said the sponsors who do heed their call have offered little support, limiting their ability to meet all requirements. “This time round things are bad, but we are hopeful the festival will be successful. This is how bad politics can be,” he said. Lamu Deputy Governor Abdulhakim Aboud yesterday said at his office the number of foreign tourists who usually attend the event could dwindle. He was, however, upbeat that with the final touches being put in place, the festival will be a success. “We’re trying to pull in some sponsors so we finish up the last touches. So far we are good to go. We are, however, apprehensive that the number of visitors could be the lowest in 17 years since the festival started,” Aboud said. “But the festival will turn out just fine. We already have visitors flocking in. Things are not looking that dim.” Lamu Cultural Promotional Group chairperson Ghalib Alwy said they had not met their financial target, but they are planning for a successful event. Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo says security will be tight.  Visitors and residents will be safe, and vehicles will have police escorts, he said.