NASA senators have 12 days to provide the list of their leaders to enable the House to fully discharge its work. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka yesterday told the Opposition to hand in the nominees’ names by latest November 20. He said NASA wrote a letter requesting for more time to iron out some issues before forwarding the names. “We need the list to allow formation of committees,” Lusaka said. NASA leaders had asked Parliament to give them time until November 30.  However, Jubilee lawmakers viewed the plea for more time as a ploy to delay formation of committees to paralyse House operations. Parliament will break for a two-month Christmas holiday in the first week of December. There have been disagreements in NASA over nominees to House leadership positions. This has disrupted the Senate’s business since it reopened in September. NASA fronted Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula as Minority leader. It was reported that Siaya Senator James Orengo was fronted as Deputy Minority leader and his Makueni counterpart Mutula Kilonzo Jnr as Chief Whip. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen yesterday said the  Jubilee side is ready to discharge its duty. He urged NASA to agree on its list to allow the formation of committees. “We don’t want internal fights in NASA to affect operations of this House. I request them to quickly come into agreement and provide its nominees,” Murkomen said. NASA senators boycotted the September session on grounds President Uhuru Kenyatta unlawfully reopened the 12th Parliament. Uhuru reopened Parliament after the Supreme Court nullified his August 8 presidential election victory, citing electoral malpractices such as illegalities and irregularities in results transmission. NASA leaders had instructed their legislators to boycott the sittings until fresh elections are conducted and the President legitimately elected to address Parliament on the government’s five-year term’s objectives.  Majority leader in Parliament Aden Duale has said it is dishonest for Opposition MPs to appear in the House and sign the register after promising not to show up in the “illegitimate Parliament”.  Duale, who is the PSC chair, said Watang’ula should not be allowed to access the Senate Minority Leader office within Parliament Buildings.    