NASA leaders have pledged to move forward with the quest for a fresh poll in 90 days. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala on Saturday said Jubilee has forced them to seek the fresh election route. The NASA coalition is calling for an interim government as the country prepares for a fresh presidential election. Malala said there must be an interim government before the country can go for a fresh poll. Otherwise NASA will form its sovereign nation, he said. “We are telling President Uhuru Kenyatta we won’t take it any more. If we feel unfairly treated we will divide this nation into two so they remain with their Central province and we rule ourselves,” Malala said. The senator urged NASA loyalists to continue boycotting any of the products and services the coalition blacklisted as being pro-Jubilee. Malala said the current situation in Kenya is brought about by lack of inclusivity in the government and other communities feeling unfairly treated since Independence. The senator added that the Election Law, amendment that Jubilee members passed in both Houses will come back to bite them. “They passed a law that any IEBC commissioner can declare a winner of a presidential election and any judge can swear in a President, so we are telling them if they swear in Uhuru, we will also swear in Raila,” Malala said. He said he is among the commanding generals of the National Resistance Movement. “We have dedicated our lives to save this nation. We have appointed four generals to protect Raila in his quest, in Mombasa we have Governor Hassan Joho, in Ukambani we have Johnson Muthama, in Nyanza we have Senator James Orengo and here in Western I, Cleophas Malala, will lead the resistance” the senator said. He attended the funeral of former ANC Kakamega governor aspirant Micheal Osundwa’s mother in Mumias. Malala was with Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi, who said the current political situation in the country needs to be solved. “We have said we must conduct a fresh election in 90 days. Jubilee is trying to sideline us,” he said. The MP added that Jubilee is responsible for the deteriorating economy and the high cost of living currently being witnessed.  