TITLE: BC ARTISTES: Bobby Mapesa and Calvo Mistari GENRE: Hip-hop/ rap RELEASE: October 6   Imagine it: Two rappers with different lifestyles and inspirations start their music ventures separately — one offering an urban vibe and the other providing unending hijinks and sensual escapades. For years, they release hit after hit, gradually gaining favourable traction, partly because of their attention-grabbing concepts. Then, years on, for some reason, the two decide that it is absolutely necessary that they unite and trade off tag-team bars over tracks that brilliantly unify their distinct styles of music. They notice their lively chemistry, approach a good number of talented stars and finish off the entire project with the release of a full-length EP.  And now we have a 50-minute, true collaborative effort, “BC”. In brief, this is the best decision Bobby Mapesa and Calvo Mistari ever made. It was a brilliant move for the duo to join forces and come up with a solid 14-track album. It opens with the jazz-inspired Leo, the first proper song off “BC,” which features Petra and Ritchie Sax. Love Me is a triumphant love song that incorporates the powerful voice of Fena Gitu. H_art the Band’s vocal inextricability from the rapper’s brilliance on Murderer offers the fans with arguably the most essential jam on the album. Mr Blue is the saving grace on Iendelee, holding the tune together, while Sage’s warm harmonies give the much-needed sauce to spice up Master. Petra reappears on Deal na Doh, this time joined by the amazing duo Red Acapella. The rappers tap Opips’ and Jardel’s vocal ranges on Nawapenda Wote, which is followed by the sensual Sema. The album also features contemporary rapper Shappaman on Niko Sawa and Brian Nadra on Kata.  Bobby Mapesa’s bars often begin with him yelling out “mtoi’ followed by his well-placed punchlines. Calvo Mistari’s brilliance nestles just into the casing of his counterpart’s thrill. This album would not be what it is right now if either of the spitters was absent. The two talented stars employed their evocative voices, found common ground and explored it.   In a way, the album is a logical display of how romance plays out in two different settings — as portrayed by the rappers — but with the same conclusion. Actually, what materialised is an album of sex jams and relationship tunes done the best way a rapper could. As a pair, Calvo and Bobby bring out the best in each other. They boldly venture full-on into a topic that most local, mainstream artistes would rather not delve into with the kind of depth exhibited on “BC”. And we can safely conclude that this is the best Kenyan album this year, and the rappers are expected to be on the run with this release.      Star Rating: 