A key plank of Raila Odinga’s speech at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington DC last week was his assertion that the drive behind his latest campaign is to end exclusion in Kenya. Can Raila, a billionaire former Prime Minister, MP for years and son of Kenya’s first Vice President, in all candor truly claim the existing mechanisms are insufficient? David Lake and Donald Rothschild in their highly acclaimed study, The International Spread of Ethnic Conflict Fear, Diffusion, and Escalation ( 1998 ) identify four main options for enhancing inclusion in divided societies: One, demonstration of respect for all groups and their cultures; two, formal or informal power-sharing; three, elections according to rules that ensure either power-sharing or the minimal representation of all ethnic groups in national politics; and four, federalism or regional autonomy. Arguably, all the above strategies have been applied within the Kenyan context to varying degrees of success. Fundamentally, the 2010 Constitution (and implementing legislation) is in itself an instrument for inclusion: The human rights regime recognises entitlements of historically excluded and marginalised groups, while devolution is designed to cure inequality in the long term by decentralising representation (where over 1,450 MCAs have been elected) and service delivery to the 47 counties.  Furthermore, public sector management is designed to adopt inclusive recruitment approaches at both national and county levels. Indeed, the Public Service Commission (and its counterpart, the County Service Board) is required to ensure proportionate representation of all ethnic communities, including the youth. The Public Service (Values and Principles) Act, in appreciation of historically skewed recruitment, enjoins the Public Service Commission to disregard competition in order to ensure recruitment of persons from “an ethnic group [that] is disproportionately represented in the public service or in a public institution.” This administration’s faithful implementation of the constitutional devices for inclusion constitutes the highest and most objective commitment to equitable development. On the other hand, the main political formations — NASA and Jubilee — also have, as their focus, the goal of enhancing inclusion. In fact, any serious examination of these entitirs’ policy intentions on social inclusion will reveal no significant variance between them. NASA and Jubilee proposed to attack social exclusion through targeted pragmatic approaches through strengthening of devolution as well as inter-governmental collaboration between the two levels of government. Neither, at least at the time of elaborating their manifestos, envisioned serious structural barriers debilitating of any ethnic group’s search for equal citizenship within the Kenyan state. The ODM manifesto 2013-17 professed that it would “promote diversity and inclusion of all Kenya people and communities and counties through zero tolerance to negative ethnicity and ensuring equity in access to resources and productive opportunities, positions and instruments of power“.  The NASA manifesto emphasized nation building on the foundation of national reconciliation and resolution of historical injustices, but does not provide specific underpinnings to guide delivery of these imperatives. Jubilee’s social inclusion menu, whose scaling up was proposed by its 2017 manifesto, is no less impressive. Over the last five years, government reports indicate Sh42.8 billion has been awarded to youth, women and persons living with disabilities through the 30 per cent Access to Government Procurement Opportunities popularly known as Agpo. Expansion of the social safety net targeting orphans and vulnerable children, older persons and persons with severe disabilities has increased to 700,000 in five years, up from about 250,000 beneficiaries. In terms of specific redress for communal grievances, the government has since recognised the Nubians and Makonde as Kenyan citizens, and granted Nubians 288 acres in Kibra. A similar recognition has also been extended to Kenyan Asians. Moreover, there is no empirical evidence that access to social services and infrastructure during Uhuru Kenyatta’s first term was in any way discriminatory of some regions. While statistics on the ethnic share of social service access are limited, sectoral examples can be cited in support of the proposition that President Uhuru’s government has indeed pursued a more inclusive developmental approach. For instance, the 1.2 million homes connected to electricity over the last five years have no doubt benefitted every corner of the country.  Certainly, over this period, the number of new connectivity in Siaya county doubled those in Murang’a, a clear demonstration of equitable distribution as well as access to resources. Similarly, the regional spread of over 3,000 kilometers of new tarmacked roads demonstrates that deliberate attempts have been made to ensure that many more Kenyans benefit from the improved road network. It’s obvious Raila has a penchant for appropriating democratic values to frame his quest for power. Exclusion is just his latest catchphrase. That Raila understands a great deal about the struggle for naked political power, having fought for it on the ballot and in the streets is indisputable. However, his credentials in the struggle against socioeconomic marginalisation remain highly doubtful.    