Mobile network operators will be required to send hourly updates of their services to the Communications Authority in two years' time as part of the regulator's framework to monitor quality of services rendered to users. The telcos must send their data on customers' interaction with and quality of SMS, voice and internet to the regulator in a new framework to be implemented progressively in three years in line with the set Key Performance Indicators. The new framework came to effect in the 2017/2018 financial year, replacing the framework and methodology that has been in force since 2009. The data capture and analysis strategy shall be structured based on three quality of service components that include network performance, end-to-end quality of service performance and customer satisfaction assessments. The three components will see the quality of the network infrastructure without terminal devices, the overall quality of the network including standardized devices and overall consumer experience assessed. “Raw data shall be transmitted automatically by the operators’ systems to a CA’s server on an hourly basis. At the same time the Licensees will analyse the same data and send the subsequent reports in an agreed format to the authority,” the authority noted in the framework document seen by the Star. Among the services to be assessed are mobile voice, to be checked for network performance and drive/walk test, Short messages, for network performance and drive/walk test, and internet, on network performance and field test. A customer satisfaction survey will be carried out across the three categories. On receiving the data, the authority will randomly sample raw data of particular months, analyse and compare with the relevant reports provided by the Licensees, in bid to independently verify the reports submitted by the Licensees. The end-to-end quality of service and the Network Performance components will be implemented during a six-month pilot phase, followed by the customer experience analysis that will be carried out on a pilot basis for the first two years after the pilot phase.  Once analysed, operators who will be deemed compliant on attaining an aggregate of 80 per cent or above, while less than required performance will lead to fines, with penalties calculated at 0.15 per cent of the operator’s gross annual revenue. This year, mobile service provider Safaricom was fined Sh270.02 million for non-compliance after attaining a 62.5 per cent score against the 80 per cent minimum. Airtel Kenya was fined Sh 26.6 million, while Telkom Kenya’s was fined Sh14.9 million.        