Was this a national plebiscite or a Jubilee public opinion poll with President Uhuru Kenyatta as a client of the IEBC? Did Uhuru’s acceptance speech confirm this doubt when he said the same people who voted for him on August 8 reiterated their confidence in him? Would that also confirm he has not bridged the ethnic divide that has bestrode Kenya's politics in the last four years? On September 1 the Supreme Court cancelled the August 8 presidential election and directed the IEBC to hold a fresh one. Africa is replete with travesties where incumbents score against themselves in Pyrrhic victory. The countries invariably descend into civic strife. A fresh election meant a new start – from processing candidates through party elections, presentation of nomination papers and certification to IEBC, verification of the voters' register and civic education. The IEBC skipped all this and even unilaterally procured candidates itself. It initially took fresh to mean a rerun between Uhuru and Raila Odinga. But when the High Court ruled against this decision, the IEBC flipped to include all previous candidates, including Raila, who had withdrawn. Oddly, while the procurement of candidates meant a “repeat” poll, the result announcement reverted back to fresh election protocol, with the 51 per cent plus one of total votes cast and 25 per cent minimum in 24 counties benchmarks being invoked. The procured candidates didn’t campaign, they had no agents at polling stations and some didn’t even vote. Only IEBC officials, aided by Uhuru’s agents, verified voters and the results. The candidates' absence gave credence to the narrative they had been recruited to be on the ballot to fill the credibility gap. And sure enough, some resurfaced at Bomas to read designer concession speeches. Could it be votes for absentee candidates were inserted to create a perception a vote had indeed taken place? If this is the case, then whom was Uhuru running against to garner over 98 per cent votes across the country? Faced with pressure to redeem itself of “illegalities and irregularities”, the IEBC became paralysed. The initial date it set for the election, of October 17, was dropped for October 26 for no reason. Insubordination galore burdened the outfit; commissioners and the secretariat sabotaged chairman Wafula Chebukati. He threatened to resign saying he couldn’t guarantee a credible election only after his ally commissioner Roselyn Akombe quit, loudly protesting sabotage from within. It was at this point that the commonwealth observer mission withdrew and the few remaining downsized. The AU, however, stayed put and deployed observers in only 18 counties. Its head, former South African President Thabo Mbeki, meekly declared visiting “very many” polling stations, but later said he only went as far as the outskirts of Nairobi. The remaining teams chose silence as a weapon of protest, even as police brutalised and killed peaceful protesters. Voting was postponed in five counties, supposedly due to unfavourable environment and disappearance of IEBC officials. The IEBC then shifted blame from an omnibus fear to intimidation, fear and threat of violence by voters. It later turned out, voting did take place in some constituencies in Migori and Kisumu counties. If the IEBC didn’t know where it was holding elections, how credible can the results be? The expensive KIEMS kits were abandoned for manual identification and transmission. With only Uhuru’s agents and IEBC officials to identify voters and authenticate results, it is anyone’s guess who voted. There were no periodic updates of turnout. Turnout became a ridiculous percentage of voters rather than a percentage of total registered voters. Of course the source was unauthenticated hand delivered returning officers’ notes. A futile attempt to bestow a veneer of legitimacy over low turnout was found in the weather, as if the IEBC was bereft of contingencies. Still only 7.6 million (38.84 per cent) voted, the lowest turnout recorded in Kenya's history. Is it a legit election, or should it worry that Uhuru got 98.84% of all the cast votes? I would worry that running against himself, Uhuru got a reduced margin, despite a no-show by the opponent. This discomfort was pronounced on Uhuru as he humbly acknowledged the gravity of his runaway victory. Is Uhuru correct that the 8.4 million who voted for him on August 8 restated their confidence? Not exactly. We may argue forever, but there is no comfort in knowing 12,127,528 million or 61.8 per cent of voters turned their backs on him. That must weigh heavily on his conscience, even as his entourage engage in sadistic celebration. Communications, publications and conflict management specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,