Two sitting and 10 former members of the National Assembly have applied to be considered for the East African Legislative Assembly slots. The current MPs — elected at the August election — are Musyimi Nzengu (Mwingi North) and Elsie Muhanda (Kakamega Woman Representative). Eight of the 10 former legislators served in the 11th Parliament, one in the 10th Parliament and one in the ninth. The former legislators include NASA leader Raila Odinga’s brother Oburu Oginga (Bondo), Mpuri Aburi (Tigania East), Moses Sakuda (Kajiado West), Ibrahim Saney (Wajir North), Simon Mbugua (Kamukunji), Danson Mungatana (Garsen) and Dorcas Kedogo (Kakamega Woman Representative. Others are former Nandi Woman Representative Zipporah Kering, Mohamed Sheikh Adan (Mandera East) and former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile. Yesterday, National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai said 75 members of the public had picked up the application forms and 34 of them had returned the documents ahead of tomorrow’s deadline. “From the National Assembly side, people have picked up forms and others have returned them. Thursday will be the deadline. On Friday, we’ll forward the list to the political parties to nominate them,” he said at his office. As of yesterday, those seeking to be nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party stood at 42, while those eyeing to be given the slots on ODM were 20. Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper had attracted two applicants, while Moses Wetangula’s Ford Kenya had one. Kanu and DP also had one each. Five former Eala MPs have also applied to be considered. They are Mumbi Ngaru, Joseph Kiangoi, Abdi Ogle, Nancy Abisai and Saoli Nkanae. Yesterday, seven independent candidates had returned their application forms through the office of Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegeye. Sialai said once the parties and the IEBC go through the list, a joint select committee of senators and Members of the National Assembly will interview them. From the National Assembly, the members who will sit in the joint select committee include Katoo ole Metito, who will be the co-chair; Jane Kihara, Jeremiah Kioni, Florence Mutua and Dan Maanzo. Before the 11th Parliament was adjourned indefinitely in July, Jubilee had settled on Joe Muriuki, Mutea Iringo, Eunice Karanja, Abubakar Ogle, Adan Noor, Simon Mbugua and Irene Masit. Others were Justin Bundi, Nelson Dzuya, Naomi Waqo, Chepkemoi Stacey, Florence Sergon, Justus Mate and Pius Ewoton. Waqo has since been nominated to the Senate. Apart from Kennedy Kalonzo and Oburu, the then-Cord had picked ODM National Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno, Abubakar Zein and Ronald Ngeny. ODM has since nominated Pareno to the Senate.