A top Knut decision-making organ will today hold a crisis meeting in the backdrop of a vicious tug-of-war pitting secretary general Wilson Sossion and chairman Mudzo Nzili. The 41-member National Executive Council has called the meeting to plan next month’s annual Delegates’ Conference. However, a bitter war of words that has exploded between Sossion and Nzili will dominate the agenda of the key talks scheduled to be held in Mombasa this morning. A procedural letter by Sossion asking Nzili to proceed on terminal leave pending retirement has sparked a standoff that has ignited Jubilee and NASA political wars at the heart of the union. Yesterday, Nzili read mischief in what he described as a hurried move to push him to terminal leave and vowed to chair today’s NEC meeting. “Be sure I will be there as I am still the legal chairman as contemplated in the Knut constitution,” Nzili told the Star. He said the tradition of the union has been that outgoing officials are given an opportunity to preside over their last annual general meeting and address delegates. “This must be respected and I should be accorded that opportunity,” Nzili said. Sossion sent Nzili on leave on Sunday and named deputy chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi the acting chairman pending confirmation during the 60th Knut annual conference set for December 13. Nzile yesterday fired back at Sossion, saying the secretary general has no powers under the Knut Constitution to sack him. In what appeared to lift the lid on political wars rocking the union, Nzili accused the NASA-leaning Sossion of clinging to his position even after securing nomination as an MP. “Sossion took oath as a nominated MP and according to the Knut Constitution, if one accepts nomination as MP, then one ceases to hold office as secretary general of the union,” Nzili said. Nzili, who is considered Jubilee-leaning, has often locked horns with Sossion, whom he has accused of trying “to submerge teachers into his political interests.” He said the only official mandated under the Knut Constitution to write terminal letters is deputy secretary general Hezbon Otieno.