Four Embu legislators have asked Presidents Uhuru
Kenyatta to deal with the rebellious opposition Chief Raila Odinga as a criminal
after his victory was upheld. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga, Members of Parliaments  Muriuki Njagagua (Mbeere North), Rtd Col Geoffrey King’ang’i,
Mbeere South) and Cecily Mbarire  (nominated)
asked the president to now usurp his authority as the country’s president  and accordingly deal with Raila over his resistance
activities. The Jubilee legislators told the president not to
hold back his restraint the way he has been doing awaiting g the verdict of the
Supreme Court but deal firmly with Odinga if he goes ahead with being sworn in
as president as his National Resistant Movement (NRM) has threatened, and if his
supporters continue destroying properties in demos. The four legislators who spoke to the press
separately congratulated the president after the Supreme Court upheld his
October 26 repeat Presidential election on Monday, condemning Odinga for
insisting the verdict was flawed, arguing that his resistant activities are
treasonable and thus should be dealt with as a criminal. Ndwiga who spoke to the press at Izaak Walton Inn yesterday
said owing to the fact that Kenyatta has been quite law abiding following the nullification
of his August 8 General Election victory and going back for a repeat election should
not be construed as cowardice. “The Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinet should
crackdown on the opposition if they engage in crimes like incitement,
threatening lives and property destruction the way they have been doing. These people
act the way their leaders show them,” said Ndwiga. On the other hand Njagagua who spoke to the Star on
phone said for several months during electioneering the country has almost been
at a standstill and that now that the president has been confirmed he should
ensure the economy is up and running. He said the president should not allow the
opposition to use jungle rule in their activities and thus it should be dealt
with according to the law and constitution. He termed opposition MPs and senators as hypocrites
for denouncing presidential election but still remaining in office despite
their election having been conducted by the same IEBC. Kingangi asked Odinga to respect the verdict of the
court the way he respected it after it annulled President Kenyatta’s, victory
of August 8 and let the life to continue as the opposition is represented in
running of the country through its senators, Mps and MCAs. He said Odinga and his colleagues utterances of
threatening to swear him in are treasonable and that its tantamount to engaging
in overthrowing the legally constituted government. “The president had the capacity to behave the way Odinga
is behaving after nullification of his election but he didn’t because if he did
so there would be no country today. Does Odinga think the court’s ruling is
only fair when they are in his favor?” asked Mbarire. She said Odinga should know that the country is
bigger than him and that he should not be allowed to burn the country to achieve
his greed for power and that  the court
could not make decisions to please him but to do justice. They were commenting over the upholding of President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26 election by the Supreme Court on Monday and Odinga’s
denouncement of the verdict and his vow to continue with his resistance
activities.      