Seven torture victims have been awarded Sh28 million compensation for the pain and suffering they underwent at the hands of security agents during the Moi regime. In his ruling yesterday, Justice John Mativo said the victims, who were arrested and tortured between 1986 and 1990, were inhumanly handled by police and their fundamental rights and freedoms grossly violated. “I am persuaded the petitioners proved to the required standard that they were physically tortured and subjected to unwarranted cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment,” the judge said. Saying no amount of money can adequately compensate such suffering, the judge ordered the state to pay each of the victim Sh4 million. Chege Kuria and Stanley Ngigi, both relatives of politician Koigi wa Wamwere, were arrested at their Engachura homes in Nakuru county on December 16, 1990. The court heard that the two were driven to Nairobi. They were interrogated in connection with Koigi’s alleged ties with the Mwakenya and Kenya Patriotic Front movements. They were dumped in Westlands, Nairobi on December 28, 1990, after being tortured at Nyayo House. Boniface Wanjohi, who was a bodyguard of multi-party crusader Kenneth Matiba, will also be compensated following his detention between July 4 and 17, 1990. Wanjohi told the court he was tortured and threatened with death over his alleged connection to an outlawed movement. Kinya Kang’ethe was arrested on May 15, 1989 in Nakuru town on allegations of sabotaging the railway line and taken to Nyayo House. He was forced to confess. He was jailed for 14 years, but was acquitted on appeal. Other victims who will each get a similar amount are Cornelius Onyango, who was arrested in Bungoma, Joab Otieno and Pascal Wandera . The judge agreed with their lawyer, Gitau Mwara, that the government was liable for the actions of security agents. Mwara said the victims suffered both psychological and physical harm. The judge rejected the Attorney General’s claims that the suits were time-barred and amounted to an abuse of the court process.