NASA yesterday received a major boost after Ford Kenya’s Richard Onyonka clinched the Kitutu Chache South MP seat. In his acceptance speech, Onyonka attributed his victory to his development record for the two terms he has been in office. The parliamentary election for the constituency did not take place on August 8, following the death of Jubilee candidate Leonard Mwamba on July 14. Mwamba died in a road accident. Onyonka during the Tuesday poll defeated six opponents to win his third term as MP. He is the third MP to be reelected, out of nine in Kisii county.  The others who were reelected on August 8 were Jimmy Angwenyi of Kitutu Chache North and Richard Tong’i of Nyaribari Chache.  NASA affiliate parties did not win any parliamentary seat in Kisii county on August 8.  Despite other NASA affiliate parties ODM, ANC and Wiper fielding candidates, Onyonka garnered 10,122 votes.  His closest opponent Anthony Kibagendi of Jubilee got 5,074 votes. Samwel Omwando of ODM was third with 4,324, Andrew Maubi of Wiper had 2,191 and Kanu’s Morara Nyang’au got 201. The others were PDP’s Jimmy Onkangi who got 100 votes and ANC’s Justus Mochoge who received 60 votes. The constituency has 59,017 registered voters, but only 22,072 turned out, representing 37.40 per cent. Onyonka was declared winner by constituency returning officer Hilda Imbo at St Mary’s Mosocho Girls Boarding Primary School at 4am yesterday. Ford Kenya national organising secretary Chris Mandumandu urged more people to join the party, saying it has a vision and a future. “Onyonka’s victory is a clear signal the party is supported not only in the Kisii region, but the country at large,” Mandumandu said.   All his rivals, except Kanu’s Nyang’au, were absent from the tallying centre during the declaration of the results. “It is not easy for one to be reelected more than two times,” Onyonka said. Maubi and Kibagendi took to social media to concede defeat.  Kibagendi urged Onyonka to join Jubilee. “Today I have woken up with my head high. I’m proud of myself and my team. It was a worthy battle lost to a worthy opponent. I say a big thank you to the people of Kitutu Chache South who turned up to vote for me,” Kibagendi said.  “This election has made me believe in myself. I was running on a Jubilee ticket in a constituency perceived to be an opposition stronghold. The campaigns were exciting, the response was fabulous. However, I also experienced betrayal by people I trusted.” Maubi told Onyonka to put the constituents first and warned he will emerge stronger in 2022. “Whereas all my three able competitors had backing from different quarters, I was the only lone ranger. Politics has shaped me and God willing, in  2022 we will be victorious,” he said in a statement.  “I will not relent on my resolve to transform my great constituency and scheming starts now. A hero lives to fight another day.” 