The Kenyan government will manage its new investment in Kenya Airways for 10 years before handing it over to a strategic investor. Speaking while converting the government’s debt of Sh23.7 billion into a 19.1 per cent stake in the ailing national carrier, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the National Treasury’s investment in KQ is in no way a government bailout but a plan to aid the airline back to profitability before handing it to other investors. ‘’The government expects a return on investment once the airline returns to profitability. In addition to entrenching high standards of corporate governance, the company is expected to continue implementing a focused operational turnaround based on a profitable and sustainable business model and supported by a professional and accountable management,’’ said Rotich. The CS said the restructuring will see Kenyans get value for money and expressed confidence the airline will be stable and won’t submerge again. This will not be the first time Kenya Airways will be going under financial restructuring. Established in 1977 after the break up of the East African Community, KQ was first restructured in 1995 where a large aviation industry partner was sought to acquire 40 per cent of the shares, with another 40 per cent reserved for private investors and the government keeping the remaining stake. This arrangement saw the government absorb close to $90 million in debts and converted another $31million it provided in loans into equity. After reorganisation, the airline would have a debt of approximately $78million. KLM was awarded the privatisation of the company, which restructured its debts and made a master corporation agreement with KLM, which bought 26 per cent of the shares, becoming the largest single shareholder since. Shares were floated to the public in March 1996, and the airline started trading on the NSE. The Government of Kenya kept a 23 per cent stake in the company, and offered the remaining 51 per cent to the public. However, non-Kenyan shareholders could hold a maximum 49 per cent share of the airline. Despite 40 per cent of the shares being kept by foreign investors following privatisation (including KLM’s 26 per cent stake), top management positions were held by Kenyans. Even so, the latter maintained veto powers in the board. However, the Kenya Airways financial restructuring plan to be unveiled on Monday next week is expected to put to an end a 22-year old agreement that thrust the royal Dutch airline KLM into the heart of the national carrier’s ownership and management. According to a new shareholding structure, the Kenyan government which on Monday converted its Sh23.7 billion into 19.1 per cent stake in KQ, will see its total shares surge to a whopping 48.9 per cent from the initial 29.8 per cent while 10 commercial banks are expected to convert Sh16.72 of their Sh21.72 billion debt into 38.1 per cent.      