The secession quest is irreversible even if it takes 10 years, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said. Joho yesterday criticised Tourism CS Najib Balala and other critics for faulting him and attempting to frustrate the course. Joho said residents will enjoy more under self-rule. Balala and Jubilee politicians from the Coast have said Kenya is indivisible. Jubilee and the Council of Kenya Professionals want seceding counties denied cash by the Treasury. But Joho said the path they have taken will lead to “real self-determination and good governance”. He spoke during the swearing-in of six county executives. Joho said secession will ensure local resources benefit residents — “not impoverishing them as is the case”. The ODM deputy party leader cited proceeds from Kenya Ports Authority that have “benefitted others”. The government plans to set up a dry-port in Naivasha and this has not gone down well with Joho. He termed it “a plot to sabotage Mombasa economically”. “People will feel their voices count and marginalisation will no longer be used as a political tool, but for positive action,” Joho said of self-determination. He said consultative processes are ongoing and every dissenting voice, “including that of Balala”, will be heard. “We will make every person understand why the journey to secession is irreversible,” he said. Joho said they will not take the Mombasa Republican Council route. MRC maimed people and killed police officers when they agitated for “Pwani si Kenya” slogan. “Unlike them, we recognise Coast is Kenya, but we want self-rule through legal means,” he said. “We must succeed today, after one month, a year or two, five years or even 10. This is a conversation that we must have.” Joho told leaders consider why Coast residents have not been voting “for the government of the day in the last five elections.” Time is up for the region to have its own government, he added. “Kenya won’t be the first and last country to have secession. It has happened elsewhere,” he said. But Jubilee’s Isiolo woman MP Rehema Jaldesa said dialogue is inevitable. “The only way out of this impasse [political uncertainty] is through talks,” she said. European envoys have warned against secession and said it will raise tension. They said exclusion triggered the agitation and recommended “a total inclusion”.