The time has come to discuss and act on inequalities within the counties. Acknowledgment of the existence of developmental deficits across and within the counties is gaining momentum. However little progress has been made to address them. Efforts such as the revenue-sharing formula by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and the Equalisation Fund are good learning points from the national level. Lessons from these must be practised within the counties too. Inequality within the counties persists and often the levels of development in different wards remain unequal. Some wards enjoy good infrastructure such as good road networks, health facilities, schools and access to improved sources of water than others. Inequality is both historical and political. Political in the sense that, while making development decisions, leaders have failed to promote fairness and equitable practices. Persistent inequalities triggered the constitutional reform process that led to devolution of power and resources in 2013. The expectations of Kenyans when they adopted a new Constitution in 2010 was that this would lead to policies and initiatives that would bridge developmental gaps. Over five years later, modest progress has been made by various counties to address inequalities. The most notable example of policy efforts to deal with intra-county inequalities in the first five years of devolution is the Ward Development Fund, modelled after the Constituency Development Fund. The initiative has survived constitutional hiccups that led to resistance and forced the proponents to adopt different forms. Some changed the name, for instance in West Pokot where a share of the development budget is divided equally among the county’s wards. Others opted to retain it in the budget as a form of ward allocation whose projects are decided by the MCAs. While the idea to establish Ward Development Funds was being pursued by some counties, a few others enacted legislative frameworks to facilitate distribution of resources among wards. Among these is the Projects Implementation and Management Bill 2014 in Uasin Gishu county. The main object of the Bill is to establish a framework for further devolution of government by providing platforms to harmonise and ensure equity in the implementation of county development projects and services. Others include a petition by a citizen in Bomet county asking for the legislation of a law to guide distribution of resources and, finally, enactment of a law known as the Equitable Development Act 2015 in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The EDA is a notable example of a strong effort by the county government to address inequalities. The Equitable Development Act, which applies a rational and objective approach to distribution of the county’s development budget among its wards, is one of the most progressive practices. It provides lessons for governments and other actors interested in promoting an equitable society. As more counties adapt laws to address inequalities, such lessons will be vital. In addition, there is room for the CRA to help the counties think through their approaches. That said, there are shortcomings in the framework for determining shares going to different wards. There are notable differences on factors affecting service delivery across wards, for example land area, population and access to services. However, the Equitable Development Act and similar efforts adopted by other counties have a large part of their allocations shared equally. In the EDA, 60 per cent of the Elgeyo Marakwet development budget is shared equally. This goes against the principle of fairness as it assumes that most wards have almost equal needs. Wards that need more money to bridge the development gap continue to be marginalised. As Equity Week 2017 ends, with a discussion on Elgeyo Marakwet, key takeaways will be a shared sense of inequalities and historical patterns, and collective ideas and actions to strengthen efforts to address inequalities. This op-ed is part of a series for Equity Week The writer works for Center for Innovations in Open Governance. kipronotc@gmail.com      