Girls' seduction of boys into sex is fueling circumcision in Embu as parents look for ways to stop the immorality, a local psychiatrist has said. Doctor Njagi Kumantha yesterday told the Star that parents believe is it immoral for girls to ask boys for sex. They say it is against the community traditions, hence the need to circumcise the girls and end their sexual urge. "Some parents who did not want their daughters to be circumcised have since resorted to the cut to prevent their girls from bad manners," Kumantha said. He said girls who have reached puberty have become more aggressive and are making the first move in seduction. He urged parents to look for alternative ways like sex education that will ensure their daughters do not engage in premarital sex. “Girls of today seem to be leading in initiating relationships with the opposite sex. They seduce the boys and even give them dates and the boys seem to be comfortable with that. These have been interpreted by parents as immorality and thus they have been removing the arousal by having them circumcised,” Kumantha said. While acknowledging that circumcision reduces sexual urge in women, Kumantha said the cut is medically and socially harmful to the young girls. "Female Genital Mutilation leads to complications during birth. The lady may also fail in her marriage if she cannot satisfy her husband as she might not be sexually responsive enough," Kumantha said. He was speaking at Izaak Walton Inn in Embu town. He said absentee fathers are also to blame for the emerging trend among girls. "Being brought up by single mothers means the girls don't get fatherly advice. They therefore want to be close to members of the opposite sex," he said. It is estimated that 78 per cent of girls in Embu county are circumcised. On November 17, Embu West deputy county commissioner Caroline Imaya said parents and guardians are responsible for the circumcision of young girls. "The girls are normally below 18 years. That means somebody else makes the decision on her behalf," Imaya said during the Africa Statistic Day celebration in Embu.