Airtel Kenya has urged the High Court to quash the Sh2 billion license fee demand by the Communication Authority made in August 2015. The telco has gone further to ask the authority to withdraw its demand and issue them with a synchronised license at no extra cost as per the Essar sale agreement which saw them acquire Yu subscribers and its operating license. Airtel made the plea yesterday during submissions before a Judicial Review at the High Court between the mobile service provider and the regulator. Senior counsel, Fred Ngatia, who represented Airtel, told Justice George Odunga yesterday that the Communication Authority had gone silent for two years after the firm completed paying for the licence. He alleged that after the long silence, CA wrote a letter demanding the money through National Treasury. "CA had debts to settle that was why they started demanding for the money almost two years after paying Sh5.4billion licence fee and the matter was concluded," Ngatia said. Last month, the regulator slapped Airtel with a fee demand amounting to Sh2.07 billion as a condition for renewing their operator’s license, an exercise scheduled for January 27, 2025. Airtel has since faulted the order and stood its ground arguing it is not going to pay the fee claiming that the decision was made in bad faith and it’s an abuse of power. In an affidavit filled in the High Court, the telco claims that Essar exited the market with the blessings of the regulator. They now want the eight-years license term purchased in the Essar deal be synchronised with the 10-years renewal option provided for in their license including the 2G and 3G frequency spectrum hence extending their existing license to 2024. According to the affidavit seen by the Star, the telco has termed the demand as an after-thought and was made without basis. “The demand made by the respondent (Communication Authority) is adverse to the applicant due to the timing. The decision came after the applicant had helped clean up the problem of Essar telecom Kenya eminent liquidation and the amount of Sh2.07 billion cannot be recovered by the applicant (Airtel Kenya) due to the fact the Essar has long exited the Kenyan market,” the affidavit read in part. The telco further contends that the negotiations, terms and conditions for the agreement were long concluded in February 2015 and thereafter not pending for discussion as outlined by the regulator. In the the affidavit, Airtel maintains that they acquired both the subscribers and operating licence merged under the current 10-years licensing regime. Responding to questions from the media last week during the release of their half year financial results, Safaricom director of corporate affairs Steve Chege confirmed that they inherited the spectrum and Essar House. As at their time of exiting the Kenyan market, Essar was facing liquidation challenges, they were in deep debt and were even unable to pay the Communication Authority. It was at this point that Safaricom and Airtel stepped in with the buy-out proposals.  