Two girls from Kilifi with contrasting backgounds defied the odds to excel in KCPE exams.  Amina Mwangiri, an orphan, scored 432 marks and Lucy Dafano scored 423 at Malindi Kingsway Academy. People didn’t believe Dafano could perform well because of her mixed parentage and wealthy background. (She is half Italian and half Chonyi).  The 17-year-old Mwangiri from Magarini said  she was fortunate to get a sponsor for her education. The girls spoke on Wednesday during an event organised by the school to celebrate their sterling performance.  “I am grateful to my teachers and the school management,” Mwangiri said. Dafano worked hard to confound critics. “In Malindi people of my kind – half castes- are known to be enjoying life and cannot be top scorers,’’ she said. Dafano said people used to discourage her. They told her she would not make it, but she didn’t listen to the negative things.  Mwangiri’s guardian Mama Good and Dafano’s mother Grace Laika were overjoyed. o not
work hard and normally enjoy their family wealth. Dafano is a daughter of a prominent Malindi businesswoman Grace Laika who owns Breeze Point Hotel. Her father
is a wealthy Italian businessman. Other
half caste children are known to live posh lifestyle of partying in clubs and
expensive resorts. Dafano
said people used to discourage her that she would not make it because her
family was rich. “One
thing I know about Malindi is that people of my kind – half caste- are known to
be enjoying life and cannot be top scorers,’’ she said. On
Wednesday, her mother could not hide her joy. Teachers and parents carried the successful candidates shoulder high. They celebrated in school and went to the streets.  Mwangiri’s guardian Mama Good said she had over 30 pupils at Kingsway. She is glad one of
them had topped in the subcounty. “She
has always been number one since ECD , I am happy she has made me proud,’’ she
said.  The school’s deputy principal Newton Mwithya
said they had 38 candidates and got a mean score of 335.9.      