Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has called for amendment
of the constitution to create positions of Prime Minister and his deputy in a
bid of ending political stalemate. Mutua said the amendment will allow for expansion of
the government hence accommodate those who win an election and their political
opponents. “Expanded government needs to be thought of, the
issue of the winner of an election takes it all is not good,” said Mutua. Mutua spoke during official launch of the 5th
edition of KICOSCA/CASA 2017 Games at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County on
Monday. He said the constitution should be reviewed to create
positions of Prime Minister and his deputy. “The constitution needs to be amended to include
positions of President, deputy president, prime minister and deputy prime
minister among other positions,” said Mutua. Mutua said the amended constitution should allow
those rallying for Presidency to also contest for other positions like
parliamentary, senate or gubernatorial. He said the amendment will ensure peace prevails in
the country and that the political stalemate comes to an end. “We want governors to start talking within themselves
on how to bring this country together. Other leaders will follow, we will be at
forefront for other leaders to emulate,” added the Machakos CEO. However, Mutua welcomed the Supreme Court ruling on
the controversial presidential elections. Mutua  said
NASA leaders should respect the Supreme Court ruling on upholding President
Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto’s win on October 26 presidential
repeat elections. “We have accepted the court’s ruling the way we did
last time when it annulled President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto
August 8 election win,” said Mutua. He said Kenyans’ diversity is their strength. “We need peace, we cannot develop our country with
violence. I am saddened to see people lose their lives to politics, there is no
need for Kenyans to shed blood due to politics,” added Mutua. The function was attended by Governors Wycliffe
Oparanya (Kakamega), Mike Mbuvi (Nairobi), Fedinant Waititu (Kiambu), Joseph
Chepkwony (Kericho), Ali Roba (Mandera) and Ali Korane (Garissa) counties. The governors said through Council of Governors they
are committed to ensuring citizens from across the 47 counties live in peace despite
their ethnic or political affiliations and differences. “As COG, we will talk as Jubilee and NASA leaders
and then engage our principals. Our people have died due to politics,” said
Oparanya. He said the country should not experience more
killings. Waititu said there will be nobody who will lead the
country without being elected by Kenyans through the ballot.            