Suppliers in Mombasa risk losing more than Sh4.8 billion as Governor Hassan Joho has said they won't be paid unless charges are reviewed. Joho said they have been offering services and products at exorbitant rates and "we shall not pay you...go anywhere you want but you will not be paid." Maryann Mbaruk, during her vetting for the Finance and Economic Planning docket, said the amount is yet to be paid to suppliers who delivered. "The figure could be much hire than we think," she said. Mbaruk blamed the huge bill on "over-procurement" while Joho noted on Thursday cited that the problem is "abnormal rates". "Yesterday (Wednesday), a voucher was brought for payment...How can you sell one can of doom at Sh3,000? How? How dumb do you think we are? Who are you to sell doom to us at Sh3,000? It is supposed to be Sh200. You can top up by Sh50 and sell at Sh250," he huffed. Joho said Dettol washing soaps average Sh300 yet are sold to the county at Sh2,500. The Governor questioned the county's procurement process while Mbaruk said "it must be overboard". "I must have a conversation with the other 46 governors. We must scrutinise the procurement process. We really need to understand what's happening there," Joho said. Related: Graft a major threat in Mombasa, fight it fiercely, EACC tells Joho Also see: [VIDEO] Mombasa Water executive misses swearing-in, Joho warns against corruption What remains to be seen is whether suppliers will review their prices for payment as directed by the county chief. As Joho fights to tame rogue suppliers, the huge wage bill is eating intofunds for crucial projects such as road expansion and waste management. On Thursday, Joho admitted his county is suffering a serious cash crunch and can't offer services adequately as money has been lost in undeserved payment. "We have huge debts to pay. Roads can't be constructed and hospitals improved." Mbaruk noted procurement must be in tandem with the revenue collected. She said loopholes must be sealed and "whatever is deducted remitted". Her statement pointed at possible revenue loss through dishonest collectors. The county has often missed its revenue targets. Joho said suppliers must quote reasonable prices in order to do business with him.