The unnecessary glamour attached on university education has raised Kenyans’ obsession with university degrees at the expense of the skills-based training offered in Technical and Vocational Education and Training institutions. Education CS Fred Matiangi in January said an investor had offered 3,000 jobs for Kenyans but there were none qualified to take up the opportunities. The investor had to bring them from outside the country. TVET institutions that offer hands-on skills that guarantee graduates immediate jobs are seen as reserves for academic failures. They offer a variety of courses, including building construction, carpentry and joinery, commercial-based courses, engineering, textile-based programmes, catering, hospitality and ICT. And students would rather study for “useless” diploma and degree programmes in universities, rather than courses offered in TVETs. And majority of those studying for Diplomas in universities are pursuing qualifications for admission for degrees. WHY ARE TVETS SHUNNED? Few Kenyans have interest in pursuing programmes offered at the TVET learning centres, despite the numerous incentives offered by the government to attract more students. For instance, the government pumped Sh800 million into the Higher Education Loans Board to be extended to students in public TVET institutions in the 2015-16 academic year, but only less than a third was taken up because there were no applicants. The government also set up the the TVET Authority and Curriculum Development, Assessment and Certification Council. TVET authority was tasked with promoting access, quality, equity and relevance in TVETs by inspecting, licensing, registering, regulating and accrediting institutions, trainers and programmes offered in the institutions. CDACC was established to take over administration of examinations in TVET institutions from the Kenya National Examinations Council to ensure assessment and testing of students is competency oriented. CDACC is supposed to take over examination roles in TVETs from the Kenya National Examinations Council. This council is tasked with making rules with respect to such examinations and competence assessments; Out of the 60, 000 learning opportunities offered by the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service in 54 TVET institutions countrywide in the 2015-16 academic year, only 13,000 were applied for by prospective students. The other students, who only qualified for a diploma and certificate programmes, elected to undertake them in universities and private colleges. And most students undertake the diploma courses as qualifications for admission into universities, and go for the non-technical courses. Among the incentives offered by the state include widening the scope of the beneficiaries of the Higher Education Loans Board to advance loans to students pursuing diploma studies in public TVET institutions. Matiang’i said despite the government giving loans to students in public TVET institutions, little has been achieved. He said the government set aside Sh800 million loans for TVET students, but less than a third of it was taken up because there were no applicants. But the targeted students continue to despise the middle-level colleges. INTERN? YOU’RE HIRED! The graduates of technical colleges are almost guaranteed of jobs due to their hands-on skills. Others venture into self employment. Abdul Mohamed, a graduate of Kenya Water Institute said he got a job with a construction company in South B a week after completing his studies. “They had offered me internship but hired me after two weeks,” he said. Matiang’i has decried Kenyans’ obsession with university degrees and studying at universities or holding a university degree or diploma. The CS said more than 80 per cent of students in universities, including private ones, are enrolled for bachelor of arts degrees, including BA in theology. The CS said public and private universities graduated 9,000 with bachelor of arts degrees, while 15, 000 others obtained bachelor of science in “insignificant courses” between June and November last year, widening the scope of too many graduates with no skills. The major infrastructural projects being undertaken in the country, including the Standard Gauge Railway, LAPSET, highways, construction of water dams and electricity connectivity have created thousands of jobs for youths.  Vision 2030 Delivery Secretariat director general Julius Muia said youths and women are beneficiaries, offering both skilled and non-skilled labour while learning from the expertise brought in by those implementing the projects. The real estate sector has been expanding but the enrollment levels, particularly in the traditional engineering and construction-based courses, has been declining.