Elaborate commemorations are held the world over during November, mainly focusing on those who took part and made the ultimate sacrifice in WWI and WWII. British-led King’s African Rifles participated too, including the illustrious 3rd Battalion drawn from Kenya. Globally, battlefields are mapped and preserved for posterity. Such places have a cenotaph, an ancient Greek concept; meaning an empty tomb. Yet this void is a contradiction, as it is filled with emotions and thoughts embodying what cannot be expressed. There’s a gaping emptiness of consciousness looming across Africa. Why? Its glorious soldiers who fought for freedom across many centuries have been forgotten. For hundreds of years millions of brutalised people were transported across the Indian and Atlantic oceans, as well as the Sahara, to lands of bondage. Africans along the Western coasts were readily bought by European slavers from their African accomplices. The latter did the actual inland raiding and delivery of captives to ports. As uncomfortable as this truth sounds, West Africans themselves cannot claim innocence, being an essential cog in this nefarious trade. But auspiciously that is not the whole story. What has never been clearly stated before by any historian is that a large swathe of Africa refused to be victimised and instead faced down the Arab invaders, who indulged in slavery on a colossal scale, especially from the outset of the 7th Century AD. An almost impenetrable line of defence was drawn all the way from Ethiopia running down to southern Africa. The common imagination of brave but otherwise slapdash and ineffectual bands of warriors strewn across the continent is a fallacy. Ethiopia, a Christian nation older than most in the Western World, had a formidable standing army and a chain of imposing castles. Consequently this kingdom was out of bounds to Arab incursions. Not too far, further south were the Maasai, who maintained well conditioned, battle-ready and disciplined forces, known as the Moran. All men were expected to serve for 15 years in the army. As for their armoury and tactics these closely resembled the Roman Legions. Trained to act as companies, they created a wall of shields from which they would first launch spears, next deadly accurate clubs, before engaging an enemy at close quarters with short swords, exactly like the cohorts of the Romans. Since their territory stretched down the Great Rift Valley from near Lake Turkana and way past Mt Kilimanjaro, by default they invariably protected all the other peoples who inhabited the vicinity of their vast territory. The Arabs, even with their guns, would not dare confront this fierce and efficient force. And when they tried, annihilation was guaranteed. Units of Maasai regularly and aggressively patrolled their domain, leaving nothing to chance. Because of this the Arabs based in Zanzibar, where they operated one of the largest slave markets in the world, had to make inroads with their marauding expeditions through central Tanzania, compelled to squeeze themselves into their main hunting grounds, mainly in Congo and Mozambique, while skirting the areas of the martial Wahehe. In turn, the Tutsis had developed a rapid response infantry, based on the Twa, which could be mobilised across their entire region within an hour of an alert being sent out by coded drums. The south itself was a complete no go zone for the Arabs, as here were the masters of strategy, the indomitable and superbly trained Zulu regiments called Impis. Had it not been for all these skilled, well commanded and organised African military forces, it is hard to imagine what worse fate would have befallen the Eastern part of Africa. Unfortunately the narrow coastal strip, running from southern Somalia to northern Mozambique, was lost to the slavers, who colonised it. But that is the nature of fighting; battles are lost so that wars can be won. Isn’t it high time that a capital city like Nairobi put up a cenotaph to the Unknown Maasai Moran? For where would we all be without these unrecognised freedom fighters? Buried in the windswept dunes of some desert country? It’s time to speak up. The Maasai have a saying; ‘Truth can crack a mountain open’.