One half of births recorded at KNH are premature, a caregiver has said. More than 500 babies are born at Kenyatta National Hospital every month. But the hospital has only 10 incubators. Newborns Unit’s assistant chief nurse Florence Ogongo said 40 per cent of the babies are from hospitals within Nairobi and its environs, while the remaining 10 per cent are referrals from other counties. “Because we are a national referral hospital, we can’t turn away babies. These are our future leaders and we must do everything to save them,” Ogongo said during an interview with the Star on Friday. With the overwhelming numbers, the facility only has 10 incubators to care for the preterm babies, whose survival rates are very critical. “We used to have 20 incubators, but 10 of them broke down. The cost of repairing them is also quite high. In such scenarios, babies have to share an incubator and the risk of infection is also very high,” Ogongo added. Premature babies are those born before the 37th week of pregnancy. They are at risk of long-term health complications that have consequences on their brains, lungs, hearing or vision. “These babies need to be handled with utmost care. They require a lot of warmth. Once they are stable, we remove them from the incubators and ask their mothers to ensure a method called Kangaroo mother care,” Ogongo said. The care involves infants being carried, usually by the mothers, while ensuring skin-to-skin contact. This has been described as an effective intervention package for dealing with high neonatal deaths related to low birth weight and premature births. If well implemented, it can progress well countrywide to reduce deaths among preterm children.  Kenya is among 15 countries with the highest number of premature deliveries globally. Data from the Health ministry shows 188,900 babies are born before time. Of this, 8,303 die annually. This translates into 26 deaths daily. In a bid to reduce the growing numbers at KNH, Ogongo has urged the government to equip county hospitals with incubators and other necessary equipment that are critical for the care and survival of newborns. “Apart from reducing the burden on Kenyatta, this plea will also help in empowering county hospitals to be able to take good care of premature babies, as their needs are different from those born after 37 weeks,” she said.