Female genital mutilation persists in Marakwet despite a ban in 2011 and vigorous campaigns against it by government agencies and NGOs. The forthcoming holiday season is traditionally time for the cut as girls are out of school and can heal. Disturbing revelations indicate girls demand to undergo the outlawed rite because of peer pressure, ridicule and ostracism. Women too willingly undergo the cut for fear of being ostracised, even attacked.  Some parents are indifferent. They secretly support the practice.  Nowadays, it’s carried out in secret. At least 11 girls were mutilated on Monday night in Boroko village, Marakwet East. Two girls aged 14 and 15 years were mutilated in Kaptul village. They fled with their parents.   No arrests have been made. Chiefs have warned of severe punishment for anyone involved, abetting and not notifying police. Extra police have been deployed following reports some residents are determined not to let go of the centuries-old practice.  FGM can lead to retained menstruation, malignant growth, difficult or delayed delivery and fistula — a condition in which urine flows uncontrollably into the vagina, eventually causing disability. Wewo sublocation assistant chief Richard Kemboi yesterday said he stormed Boroko village to stop circumcision of the 11 girls. But he and police from Tot station were confronted by youths armed with guns who forced them to flee. “We went where they were circumcising the girls at 1am. We encountered youths with illegal firearms,” Kemboi said. “They went away with the girls and circumcised them inside the forest in darkness.” He said underage girls are demanding to undergo the cut and parents allow and abet it. Kemboi said he had warned some parents against allowing their children to undergo the cut, but they ignored him and permitted it. “The situation is worrying and it’s happening in many villages. We’re working closely with the police, but they can’t be everywhere,” he said. He said an officer who attempted to stop an FGM rite was attacked in Mung’wa in 2016.  Kemboi said one girl was rushed to Endo Mission Hospital after she bled following the cut. Women are also increasingly undergoing circumcision because they are threatened by elders, he added. Marakwet East deputy county commissioner Stephen Sangolo directed chiefs to report all cases for probe. “All incidents are being investigated. So far, we have no arrests,” he said. Marakwet Girls Foundation, an anti-FGM organisation, on Wednesday condemned the crime and said it was committed secretly. It will start campaigns next week.