Several squatters have been arrested and their animals seized for allegedly trespassing into land belonging to the
late MP Mark Too.
 The High Court in Eldoret ordered the eviction of squatters at Kambi Nandi area in a case that followed their claim of ownership of 75 acres. They claimed they bought this from the defunct
East African Tanning and Extract Company (EATEC) The squatters said they were being frustrated because of their claim on part of the property in
Eldoret town. More than 40 families were evicted and their houses destroyed
after the Too family won the case but they have been trying to return to the property to graze their animals. Some of the families have been accused of destroying a fence around it to let their animals into the area despite a court order They will be charged with trespassing.  Also read: Police evict squatters from Mark Too's land Too's widow Sophie told The Star on Monday that the family followed the law in acquiring the land. "This land had been the subject of a court case but a determination was reached. I am told it is police who enforced the
court orders to ensure the squatters left." Read: Moi University, Eldoret Airport to lose land in Mark Too's case with squatters Also read: New group claims Mark Too’s land after squatters win case Sophie said the squatters should not seek
sympathy through the media but follow the law and respect court orders barring them from occupying the property. "The squatters have applied for a review of the ruling
by the court. It will come up in December. They should wait and respect the orders
of the same court." The
squatters led by spokesman John Saina want the government to
intervene in the row. "It is true
there was a court order on June 28 for us to be evicted but we
feel we are being mistreated yet we bought the land with the knowledge of Mark
Too. We have documents to that effect," Saina said. He claimed they have been living on the land but police evicted families from the land Eldoret Airport. They said some of the squatters will be charged in court for destroying the fence and trespassing. Click here for the latest political news