Lecturers yesterday said they will not call off their strike even after the Treasury last week said it has approved the release of Sh5.28 billion towards their 2013-17 CBA. Universities Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the pledge is an illusion as none of the 31 public universities has received the cash. The lecturers have been on strike for 30 days now. This is the third time this year. “As a union, we are just hearing that thing [Sh5.28 billion] in the newspapers,” Wasonga told journalists at a Nairobi hotel. UASU chairman Muga K’Olale added, “That amount is just a figment of imagination.” This was after they chaired a meeting of union officials from all the 31 public universities. A meeting called on Monday by the Inter-Public Universities’ Council Consultative Forum to resolve the stalemate failed to materialise after UASU demanded that all stakeholders attend. UASU wanted IPUCCF’s joint negotiations committee of the Federation of Kenya Employers and the vice chancellors committee to attend the meeting. Yesterday, Wasonga said several key issues must be addressed first before they call off their strike. They include negotiation of internal CBAs for individual universities, calendar for implementation of arrears of pension from previous CBAs, the jump-starting of negotiations for the 2017-21 CBA and the drafting and eventual signing of a return-to-work formula to protect lecturers from victimisation. “This time we have resolved we are going to clear all our issues so that when we go back, we can stay for up to three years [without going on strike].” Wasonga said only five universities have negotiated and implemented their internal CBAs. He listed the University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University, Pwani University and Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology. Internal CBAs cater for among other things promotion criteria, medical schemes, commuter allowances, and publication allowances. Wasonga dismissed claims that these are new demands, saying they are contained in the 2013-17 CBA signed on March 13.