Security is tight in Kirichu, Nyeri county, ahead of the burial of Governor Wahome Gakuru on Saturday. Gakuru, 51, died last week on Tuesday at Kabati on the Murang’a-Thika highway in a horrific road accident. Hundreds of police officers from Nyeri and the neigbouring counties have been deployed to Kagumo High School grounds, where the main event will be held before his remains are interred at his Kirichu home — two kilometres away. The officers include the regular police, Administration Police, warders, GSU, and NYS officers, among others. Officers from the neighbouring Kenya Police College in Kiganjo have also been deployed. Nyeri AP commander Njue Njagi said they have put in place measures to ensure the safety of all those who will attend the function. On Friday, there was a security meeting at the venue. It brought together the county security committee, chiefs and their assistants. They were briefed on the burial arrangements. Preparations were complete on Friday after 10 days of a hive of activity. Governor Mutahi Kahiga and the security committee visited the area and expressed their satisfaction that the preparations were complete. More than 30,000 mourners are expected at the final sendoff ceremony. The county has provided 30 buses — one for each ward — to ferry mourners to Kagumo Boys High School. His body leaves Lee Funeral Home at 7am, with the mass expected to begin by 11am. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are among mourners expected during the funeral service. Former President Mwai Kibaki is also expected to attend. It is unclear whether the NASA leaders are to attend. “The entire country will be here. All roads will lead to Kagumo tomorrow [Saturday]. Preparations are complete ahead of the final journey. Remember this is a state burial, as he died in office,” Nyeri Transport CEC Muthui Kariuki said. Local roads have been improved to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. King’ong’o Prison inmates and local youths have been helping in the burial preparations. Gakuru leaves behind widow Catherine and three boys.