Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko will get his way as the city assembly is destined to approve all his CEC nominees. The Appointments committee, which vetted the 10 nominees, wants the assembly to approve all names. With Jubilee having the majority members in the House, it is almost certain the report will be adopted in its entirety. The committee has said all the nominees are qualified for their dockets. Majority leader and committee’s vice chairman Abdi Guyo yesterday said they were satisfied with the academic credentials and work experience of nominees. “All of them had the requisite papers as per the set out qualifications. We had no reason to reject any of them,” he said. The committee finalised the report last Friday. Guyo said the report will be tabled in the chamber tomorrow, when a notice of motion will given so it is debated and adopted on Wednesday. The nominees are Vesca Kangogo (Finance), Peter Njuguna (Lands) and Allan Igambi (Tourism), Hitan Majevda (Health) and Charles Kerich (ICT). Others are Danvas Makori (Agriculture), Larry Wambua (Devolution), Janet Ouko (Education), Emmah Muthoni (Environment) and Mohamed Dagane (Transport). During the vetting, some nominees had difficulties answering questions. They were taken to task to explain how they would perform their work if appointed. They could not convincingly prove they fit the bill. Muthoni (Environment), could not, for instance, define riparian land, or state what EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) stands for. Transport nominee Dagane had a hard time convincing the committee how he ended up in a university in Uganda, despite having obtained C- in the KCSE exam. He also found it difficult to provide concrete solutions to traffic congestion in the city. Speaker Beatrice Elachi, who chairs the committee, told journalists after the vetting they would recommend that the governor appoints “knowledgeable people” as chief officers to some of the dockets, to supplement “weak executives”. But Guyo said the committee did not just rely on oral submissions when vetting the nominees. Their academic and professional backgrounds and managerial skills also played a key role, he said. “We were not dealing with the nominees as technocrats, but as managers. We were not really looking at their knowledge of the sectors they were nominated to lead,” he said.