Kenya Cup champions KCB open the defence against Strathmore Leos in Madaraka tomorrow. The bankers are fresh from winning the Impala Floodlit crown last weekend, where they beat hosts Impala Saracens 18-17 in a pulsating final.  Last years runners-up Kabras, under the tutelage of new coach Charles Cadovillis, welcome Mwamba at the Jamhuri Park Show ground. The sugarmillers have played in three consecutive Kenya Cup finals winning the 2016 edition and losing the 2015 and 2017 editions to KCB. Impala have a date with Mombasa Sports Club, while Nakuru entertain newcomers Kisii as Blak Blad host Nondies at Kenyatta University. The league will take a Christmas and New year break and resume on January 13 with the playoffs slated for March 3, the semifinals on March 10th and the final on March 17. Meanwhile, the KRU championship league also gets underway tomorrow with six fixtures on the cards. Kisumu RFC host Western Bulls, who were dropped from the Kenya Cup last season, at the Mamboleo Show Grounds. Kisumu made it to the quarter finals last season and are hoping to make return to the top league, where they last played during the 2013/2014 season. Mean Machine, who were also relegated from Kenya Cup travel to the Catholic University to play hosts Catholic Monks. Both sides have had a good pre-season with Mean Machine finishing fourth in the 2017 Floodlit tournament as Monks lost to Menengai Oilers in the finals of the universities category. Newly-promoted Menengai Oilers will start their campaign with a trip to Eldoret to face University of Eldoret. While they will be looking to extend their unbeaten streak, the University side will be looking to improve on their eighth-place finish last year. UoE coach Kelvin Otieno said: “Oilers are a very good team but we want to use our home-ground advantage to the maximum. We have had good preparations and the boys are raring to go.” UoE beat rivals Moi University 16-10 in a friendly match before edging Eldoret RFC 10-8 in another. USIU, who missed Kenya Cup promotion after falling Kisii RFC in the semi-finals visit Ngong RFC, who were promoted from the nationwide league. The match will be played at Kiboko Secondary. Coastal side and last season’s finalists, South Coast Pirates are hoping to put an impressive show this season as they host JKUAT ‘Cougars’ on match day one in Ukunda. The university side will be under pressure to perform better after finishing ninth out of 10 teams, escaping relegation narrowly. The last time the two met, Pirates won 32-3. An all university clash between Moi and Egerton will present a chance for the two to rekindle their rivalry.