Defending champions Stray Lions inched closer to retaining the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super League title after once again edging out Swamibapa by five wickets. The match played at Peponi School was the only match of the weekend after five other matches were washed out by the current heavy rains being experienced in the city. The match involving former champions Kanbis and Sir Ali Muslim Club was among the encounters washed out. This was the third wash out in four matches for Kanbis who are now 20 points behind Stray Lions. With eight points separating Stray Lions and Kanbis, the ground staff at Peponi School knew the importance of the match between the two sides and tried all means to have the match played. After four hours delay due to a wet outfield, Swamibapa began the inning poorly, losing three top wickets for 30 runs in 10 overs. After dismissing Irfan Karim, Shem Obado made it two for himself and four for the team forcing Maurice Ouma edging the ball into S.H Srinivas hands with the board on 47 runs. Six runs into the fifth wicket stand, umpire Charles Kariuki turned down a clear caught behind appeal from Nehemiah Odhiambo. Naman Patel had clearly edged the ball off Abraham Vadada gloves but Kariuki ignored the appeal. Saumil Patel too was beaten by a turn off Srinivas, leaving the visitors on 75 for 6. Odhiambo made it seven down with the dismissal of Emmanuel Bundi. Naman, who looked set to get the visitors into more reasonable score, fell to a slow ball from Nikhil Date on 28. The stand between siblings James Ngoche and Lameck Onyango yielded only 12 runs before Collins Obuya struck with his second delivery in the 24th over to bring the scores to 94. Hiren Varaiya hit the final nail in the opponents’ coffin with the dismissal of Ngoche with the board on 101. Openers Vadada and Manoj Sai put on 38 before the stand was broken with the dismissal of Sai. Roger Mukasa, playing his first match since the first leg, added on nine before paving way for Collins Obuya.  In the 15th over, Obuya hit Ngoche for two consecutive sixes. This pushed Ngoche into panic, prompting the left-armer to bowl three consecutive wides. But that was how far Obuya could go as he was caught at deep off Jadavji Bhimji with the scores on 71 after 15 overs. But the damage was already done as the hosts wrapped up the win with five overs to play.