It is a blessing in disguise for newcomers Western Bombers as they make their debut in the Kenya Volleyball Federation play-offs set for Makande Hall, Mombasa, next month. The Bombers, who made their debut in the league this year and finished fifth on the table standing at the recently concluded regular league in Eldama Ravine, received their ticket to the coastal event following the withdrawal of Nairobi Water. It will be the first time in six years that Water will be missing the event. Nairobi Water had qualified for the play offs by virtue of finishing fourth on the standings, but failed to honor the last leg matches without any explanations to the governing body. The federation wrote to them seeking their way forward in regard to the playoffs but the Water team management never communicated despite a November 17 deadline. KVF secretary general Ben Juma said: “We gave them a window period to communicate but it’s sad they have not given us the feedback or said anything. And thus that gives room to Bombers, who finished fifth, to occupy the final slot,” said Juma. He added: “I talked to Bombers’ team manager, Silas Cheren, who welcomed the move and said they were ready to honour the play offs.” Bombers will now challenge for the title against regulars Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Prisons and Kenya Commercial Bank. Cheren obsreved: “We have a young side but we will be out to make a good account of ourselves. We are work in progress and if our last performance in the league is anything to go by, then the team in destined for good things.” However, a reliable source from Nairobi Water said the signs for the team not to participate in the play offs were there during the sixth leg in Makueni County. The source said players, knowing too well that the sixth leg would determine their fate at the play-offs, had to facilitate themselves for the event with a promise of a refund which never happened. “It hasn’t been rosy at the club. Many at times we have absconded and struck off training after failing to get our training and playing allowances but nothing has been forthcoming,” said the source. “Many players depend on the allowances and it’s unfair that the management is not saying anything. We actually don’t know our fate going forward.”