Kenya Simbas suffered a second defeat in the Four Nations tournament, going down 31-10 to holders Russia at the Kings Park ground in Hong Kong. The defeat to the champions could see Kenya plummet down the ranking from their current 29th position following the defeat. The Simbas started well, bossing territory and possession and took a deserved lead when vice captain Darwin Mukidza slotted home a penalty in the fourth minute for a 3-0 lead. The Russians re-grouped and with their big physical forwards began to dominate—winning the battle up front through Valery Morzov, Vladimir Suslov and Alexander Ilin with Kenya on the back foot in the opening quarter. Their efforts bore fruit in the 28th minute when fly-half Ramil Gaisin put a grubber kick behind the Kenyan defence and winger German Davydov pounced to score at the corner. Gaisin made no mistake with the conversion to give the Russians a 7-3 lead. Kenya re-grouped and from the kick-off, they had spell of possession but soon lost the ball to the Russians. Winger Evgeny Nepeivoda the scored unconverted try for a 12-3 lead after the Russians capitalised on an error on the Kenyan side. From here, the Russians were now on the ascendancy, forcing Kenya to make several tackles. Gaisin was once gain the tormentor in chief as he put in another grubber kick to the corner with Nepeivida retrieving the ball to score. Gaisin made no mistake with the conversion for a 19-3 lead at the interval. On resumption, the Russians continued with their onslaught camping in the Kenya 22 and were rewarded with a fourth try when flanker Anton Sychev crawled over the line following sustained pressure by the forwards. Gaisin split the uprights for the conversion and a 26-3 lead. Substitute Nato Simiyu who came in for Biko Adema at half-time sparked Kenya to life with centre Leo Seje running a good line and off-loading the ball to the on rushing Simiyu who touched down. Mukidza slotted the conversion for 26-10 lead. Kenya began to grow in confidence but knock-ons and errant passes cost them dearly in brief spell they dominated . Kenya will face Hong Kong in their final match on Saturday.