POLICE responded with indiscriminate use of force maiming and killing citizens in their attempts to quell protests in the August and October elections, Independent Medico-Legal Unit (IMLU) has said. In their preliminary report the organization recorded 23 police killings following the August election of which on 12 bodies they carried out postmoterms upon consent from their next of kin, whereas in October they were 13 executions. "Going by the PM report there is no clear demonstration that police were shooting to defend to defend their lives or the lives of others. In two cases where police indicated in p23 form that they were shooting to save lives from attackers, the supposed attackers were both shot from the back, indicating little chances of them being killed while confronting the police with machetes," Peter Kiama IMLU's executive director said. Select postmoterm examination reports shows one victim had multiple gunshots to chest and both lower limps, another had two gunshot wounds on the left upper back with two exit wounds parallel to each other mid upper chest. The two cases Kiama said point to executions and not meant to immobilize the alleged attackers contradicting the police narrative that the second victim was charging at them with a machete. Two other victims aged 16 and 18 years old the report shows were shot at close range, however police had reported that the two might have been murdered as the bodies had multiple injuries. "The post moterm findings raise a clear case for an independent inquiry on the circumstance under which the police used lethal force to establish the justiciability of such force and or take legal action on the police command and individuals responsible," Kiama said calling on police's Internal Affairs Unit, Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) expedite investigations into apparent summary executions and forward the case to DPP for action adding that Witness Protection Agency should also step in and assure witnesses of their protection. IMLU said it also witnessed excessive use of force, including lethal force torture and ill treatment prior to, during and after the 26 October presidential elections especially in opposition stronghold. "IMLU recorded 64 cases of excessive use of force by police with 34 people being shot, 28 suffering torture and beatings and 2 suffering injuries after inhaling teargas. Out of the 34 who were shot, 13 succumbed to their injuries between October 25-28," he said. "Fifty one of those who were shot, tortured and assaulted by police are currently recuperating in different hospitals in Nairobi, Kisumu, Homabay and Migori Counties," he added clarifying that their report is not conclusive and doesn't capture all the deaths reported by other human rights agencies. Data collated by the Star and that from human rights organizations between August 11 to October 28 shows that atleast 102 people have been killed by police. Kenya National Commission on Human Rights report show that thirty seven people were killed in three days of unrest after the declaration of August 8 presidential results, Amnesty international and Human Rights Watch show 50 were killed to the run up to the October 26 repeat polls, fifteen others were killed in the aftermath of the repeat elections. Other than deaths hundreds are nursing injuries and bullet wounds sustained from police beatings as they responded to protests in opposition strongholds. On Friday October 26 to 27 two people were killed in Athi River and Kawangware, 1 in Migori, four in Kisumu, and two in Bungoma. On October 16 police killed three people in Bondo and one in Kisumu as they battled protesters.          