Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has lost possession of a multi-million-shilling worth of property in Nairobi’s Westlands area. The property is said to have been acquired irregularly. Kabogo, through his firm – Caroget Investments – is now required to pay Sh100 million as damages to Aster Holdings Ltd for illegal occupation. Justice Elijah Obaga has also ordered the firm to vacate the 5.2 acres on Mvuli Road and hand it over to its registered owner. This will bring to an end a long-running land dispute. “The suit property’s history is that it had been in private ownership since 1946. It ceased to be government's land and was therefore not available for alienation by the Commissioner of Lands. The suit property never reverted back to the government as to be available for reallocation,” Obaga ruled. Aster Holdings had sued the City Council of Nairobi, the Commissioner of Lands, the Registrar of Titles, the AG and Caroget. In April, Kabogo told court he registered the land estimated to be worth Sh3.5 billion in 2007 at the Lands Ministry after paying the requisite fees. But yesterday, Justice Obaga said the land was irregularly obtained in a well-orchestrated scheme that started in 2006. The judge said for 14 years, Nayan Patel – the registered owner of the property – could not develop the property, because of the illegal occupation. “From the evidence adduced herein and the documents produced in this case, it is clear the title by the first defendant [the Nairobi County Government], which was subsequently transferred to the fifth defendant [Caroget Investment Ltd], was obtained illegally, unprocedurally and through corrupt scheme,” the judge said. According to documents, Kabogo's title was later cancelled, but Caroget moved to court and managed to quash the revocation. Aster Holdings had initially bought two parcels of land in 1993 for Sh11 million. The titles were later amalgamated with plans to establish a residential hotel and apartment. Justice Obaga said the property was not available for allocation to the City Council, because it had been purchased and the title amalgamated.          