The Court of Appeal has overturned a decision that could have seen MCAs pocket close to Sh8 billion. In April, High Court judge Edward Muriithi ordered the government to pay MCAs who served in 2013-2017 until March 2018, saying the law had discriminated against them. But Justices Philip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and William Ouko on Friday reversed the decision, saying it was made through misinterpretation of the Constitution. The judges were of the view that requiring taxpayers to pay MCAs after the August 8 General Election when there are other elected state officers elected like them was not justifiable. In the judgment read on their behalf by Judge Daniel Musinga, the three said the terms of other officers were altered in the new Constitution without provision for compensation, hence the MCAs cannot claim to have been discriminated against. “The interpretation was bound to create confusion, given that former MCAs and presently elected MCAs will be fighting for remuneration. Public funds will thus be wasted,” they said. Justice Muriithi held that the county lawmakers are entitled to get their five years’ salary up to March 2018.   It was his view that MCAs will have an unexpired term if they exited on August 8, and the only way to resolve the issue is by paying them and not pushing the election date. According to him, the county law makers ought to have left office on March 5, 2018. But his decision did not go down well with Attorney General Githu Muigai and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, who lodged an appeal after the pronouncement. In the appeal, the AG faulted the judge for failing to appreciate that there are other elected state officers, including the President, governors, senators, woman representatives and MPs who are elected the same day as the MCAs. Through state counsel Jennifer Gitiri he told the court the judge made an error in law by failing to appreciate that Article 194 ( 1 ) (f) of the Constitution which provides that the office of MCA becomes vacant at the end of the term of the assembly, which is just before the General Election, is held. The Appeal Court judges said “the award was made in error and thus the appeal is allowed”.