Nairobi Gymkhana’s captain Karan Kaul has faulted his team’s batting after continuous collapses that has left the team struggling to achieve their top four ambitions in the NPCA Super League. This year Gymkhana have struggled, winning only four matches of the 12 played and a defeat in their second round match against Kanbis tomorrow at home will blow away their chances. Gymkhana’s batting has failed to live up to expectations of their fans and management as they place fifth on the standings. “We have to take responsibility as a batting unit. Our batsmen are dismissed without posting anything worth mentioning. All players, including myself, need to take responsibility. We have to take a note on how to start the innings, how to consolidate and then how to finish off. Out of the six batsmen we play, four guys need to take responsibility,” Kaul, who has managed only one century, said. In the first match at Eastleigh High School in July, Gymkhana bowlers were blown away for 300 plus runs with Nelson Mandela and Ramesh Mepani scoring tons. Although their bowlers have done a decent job ever since, the batsmen have failed to back them up. “We have chat about how to go about things. How to rotate the strike and how to hit the boundaries. But nothing is working for us at the moment. We just hope that the players know what is needed and they will to take up more responsibility on Sunday (tomorrow). Somehow, we need to put on a fight with the bat,” Kaul added. Kanbis alongside Stray Lions have been on a good run and are yet to lose a match, a situation that Kaul knows very well and thus challenging his troops to up their game. “I don’t think we have any technical issues. It has more to do with mental stuff. We have talent no doubt and this team is a good team. But we have not been able to address the issues. We are repeating our poor performances,” said Kaul. At Nairobi Jafferys, host Swamibapa will be seeking to bounce back from an unlucky finish last week against Nairobi Gymkhana when they welcome Sikh Union Nairobi. Swamibapa’s chances of winning the league hit a snag last weekend when rains came down forcing the match to end prematurely. Defending champions Stray Lions will be at Ruaraka in search of their 13th win of the season. The hopes will be hoping to put on a good fight against the second placed side after they suffered a huge loss in the hands of Kanbis last week.