For close to a decade, Western Stima have rubbed shoulders with the elite of Kenyan football. All that could change today should they fail to beat Posta Rangers. Nobody foresaw such an outcome a couple of weeks into the new season but that is the situation the Kakamega-based power men find themselves.  Their new coach, Richard Makumbi who took over from long serving Henry Omino has done all in his power to keep the club afloat.  His best however, has not been good enough so far and Stima find themselves three points away from safety going into the penultimate weekend of the 2017 season. It’s a do-or-die clash that few of Stima’s hierarchy could have seen coming.  Stima midfielder Geoffrey Ochieng is suspended for this match after collecting five yellow cards. Rangers won the first leg 1-0 and will fancy another win even though they are playing a desperate team that will likely fight like a cornered wolverine. Zoo Kericho might not have been mentioned a lot in the fight for survival but that is what they will be fighting for against another relegation threatened side, Thika United. Zoo are just a point above the drop zone and defeat against Thika will leave them staring at what looked like  an impossible situation just a couple of games ago. The clash will be held in Kisumu much to the consternation of Zoo who had hoped to play their penultimate tie of their maiden top flight campaign in front of their own fans at the Green Stadium in Kericho.  Mathare United are on the brink of going down for the first time since their promotion to the top league two decades ago should they fail to get all three points against an already relegated Muhoroni Youth.  They desperately need three points from their two remaining games to survive. Muhoroni’s relegation fate is already known and they will be fighting for just pride, the little that is left in them.  Mathare United goalkeeper Levis Opiyo picked a red card in his team’s previous match against Nzoia Sugar and has been suspended from the match.