Kandara town residents on Monday protested the order to have MP Alice Wahome investigated and arrested over last week's altercation with an IEBC official. Carrying twigs and placards, residents said if police arrest Wahome, they will march to the offices of Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet in Nairobi to demand justice and her release. Tobiko, through a letter to the IG written by Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecution Alloys Kemo, asked police to investigate an incident in which a video that was circulating on social media, shows the MP clashing with Kandara returning officer Martin Malonza. The IEBC has also called for the MP's arrest and prosecution. The commission says the MP committed an electoral malpractice by confronting and intimidating the official while on duty. The bone of contention between Wahome and Malonza was in thew signing of the Form 34B after Thursday's repeat presidential election.  The MP accused Malonza of denying Jubilee agents a chance to sign the form. The residents from Gaichanjiru, Ruchu, Kariti, Kariua and Kiiri said the MP was doing her work of defending and protecting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s votes. There were reports that 440 votes from Kiiri polling station, which had been cast in favour of Uhuru, were irregularly awarded to independent presidential candidate Japheth Kaluyu. “They are victimising our MP because she’s a woman. They are aware the returning officer stood his ground and deliberately declined to note the anomaly in awarding of our votes to the wrong person. Our MP was only playing her role in ensuring Uhuru’s votes were intact,” resident Esther Wangui said. They also accused Malonza of being a "NASA sympathiser", saying he was out to create evidence material for the opposition in case of a petition of the presidential rerun outcome. Kiiri residents said it was an injustice to have the IEBC announce Uhuru the President-elect without their votes being counted in his favour. “We woke up early and braved the rains to vote for Uhuru only for our votes to be awarded to someone else. Even if our candidate won, we want the IEBC to make sure that our votes are awarded to Uhuru and necessary legal action taken on the electoral official for negligence. Our justice must be served,” resident Michael Kiguru said. They said police should first investigate, arrest and prosecute those who blocked voting from going on in some parts of the country, before getting to MP Wahome. “If they arrest her, let them arrest and detain us too. She is our voice and she acted on our behalf,” resident Luke Ng’ethe said. Nominated MCAs Carol Wanjiru, Sarah Njoroge, Jane Wanjiru and Wanjiru Mwangi told the DPP to prosecute Malonza for knowingly abandoning his duties of rectifying an anomaly that could be used against Uhuru’s victory.