Kisumu county assembly has aproved formation of a People’s Assembly. Kisumu joins Migori, Kakamega, Busia, Homa Bay, Vihiga and Siaya counties, which have passed motions establishing the People’s Assembllies. The motion was tabled by Majority leader Kenneth Odhiambo, who said the assembly would help correct mistakes committed by the IIBC in the August 8 and October 26 presidential elections.  The elections were unconstitutional and undemocratic, he said.  NASA is using the motion to push for electoral justice and initiate a constitutional review to push for a parliamentary system and safeguard devolution. The motion was seconded by Majority whip Gard Olima. He said the assembly will give residents the opportunity to discuss contentious issues on how they should be governed and focus on the future of the county. The MCAs unanimously adopted the motion. Some also discussed the possibility of secession to “deliver the region from decades-old marginalisation, constant oppression and intimidation by successive national administrations”. Earlier, speaker Onyango Oloo suspended the sitting briefly to allow non-members to give their views. The leaders included Govenor Anyang’ Nyong’o, Senator Fred Outa, MPs Aduma Owour (Nyakach), James Nyikal (Seme), Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central) and Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West). They backed the motion. Nyong’o said the People’s Assembly will provide opportunity to restore respect for the rule of law and democratic elections.  “We want an election reflecting the will of the people, not sanitising certain authoritarian regimes,” he said.  Olago said the powers of the county assembly to debate the motion are anchored in the Constitution.  He said the People’s Assembly will give wananchi an opportunity to contribute to matters of national importance. Outa thanked Olago “for making it simple for the MCAs to understand the need to pass the motion”.  He said the motion is overdue and urged the assembly to pass it.  “I want to encourage you to pass this motion. It’ll give the people of Kenya their sovereignty,” Outa said. He said NASA leaders and supporters do not recognise the August 8 and October 26 presidential polls won by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  “We witnessed how the IEBC bungled the processes to force Kenya to go back to the olden days,” Outa added.