Lecturers have taken their protest a notch higher by petitioning the Senate to lead talks on their 2017-22 CBA. The striking dons also petitioned senators to summon
responsible university and government officials for grilling and “urgently” help
end the strike that is in its fourth week. Read: Lecturers’ strike to continue as talks with varsity council fail Last week, Treasury PS Kamau Thugge announced the release of Sh5.4 billion to clear arrears in line with the 2013-17 collective
bargaining agreement.  Lecturers want the Senate to intervene in this as well and Constantine Wasonga, secretary general of the Universities Academic Staff Union, has insisted they will not call off their strike
until all their CBA issues are resolved. The dons want Senators to investigate the matter so the government urgently releases the funds and pension for the two agreements. “The petitioners pray that the Senate investigates this
matter and makes appropriate recommendation. The Senate should urgently intervene to
have the 2017-22 CBA concluded,” Senate Speaker
Kenneth Lusaka said while presenting the petition in the House. The dons have indicted public universities for “habitually” failing
to remit statutory deductions such as income tax, pension contributions, NSSF
and NHIF despite monthly subtraction from their incomes. “…the forgoing factors have led to low retention and massive
brain drain of academic staff to foreign countries or other sectors. This is detrimental to the higher education sector,” reads part of the
petition. 'Bargain CBAs in advance' Senators supported the lecturers and condemned the
government for “neglecting important professionals including health workers". Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar said the government should intervene
without delay because the strike is not only hurting Kenyan students but also
foreigners who will not want to study in Kenya. “Whatever is bargained for should be fulfilled within limits. The commission tasked with looking into salaries of public workers and
Treasury should also be involved . They should bargain CBAs in advance so that in the end, they do not say there was no money." Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri asked the government to honour
agreements with workers in time to curb strikes.  Bomet's Christopher Langat demanded that universities
be “seriously investigated” to establish whether the government has been giving them funds and how it is used. He noted some might be diverting workers’
money to other programmes. “The government’s proposal to hire lecturers on contract
will not solve the strike problem. It will worsen it. The issues
lecturers are raising are real as stated in their petition." Busia Senator Amos Wako said President Uhuru Kenyatta should
appoint a Labour Cabinet Secretary who will end perennial industrial action. “There has been confusion for a very long
time on the issues of strikes. For the last four years, this House has received many petitions by professionals. This dons’ petition should be
investigated broadly." Lusaka asked the Education, Information, Communication and Technology committee to investigate the matter once it is
constituted. The committee will be required to investigate the matter within 60 days and table the report in the House for further action.   The Senate has been unable to form committees because NASA
has not yet submitted members' lists. Lusaka had given the coalition until today to
submit names.  More on this: Jubilee vows to form House committee's without NASA members Also read: NASA can't stall Parliament, Jubilee will form committees - Duale Click here for the latest political news