Wines of the World (WOW ) Limited has asked the Competition Authority of Kenya to block the proposed merger of Nakumatt and Tusky’s Supermarket over pending debts In a letter written to CAK by its lawyer Mungu, Kimetto Advocates, the Nairobi-based wines distributer fear losing over Sh76.8 million debt owed to them by Nakumatt Holdings, currently facing an insolvency suit at the High Court, if the merger is allowed to go on. The firm is incensed by recent media reports where Tusky’s Supermarket boss Dan Githua confirmed that the retailer was restocking Nakumatt branches ahead of Christmas festivals. ‘’Our client is worried that the failure to involve or require its participation as a creditor or keep our client informed on the matters arising out of any possible negotiation dealings or agreement involving the said proposed merger, with the potential of creating a new and separate legal entity or otherwise altering of the existing legal entity that is Nakumat, may be to the detriment and prejudice of our client’s chances to recover the debts owed to them,’’ read the letter seen by the Star. The wine firm has requested the regulatory body to exercise caution and observe economic rights of all stakeholders while overseeing the proposed merger, stating that all interested parties should be involved in the process. It has further implored CAK to share purchase agreement between the two firms when it will be mid-wifing the merger. ‘’The nature of these confidential arrangement currently ongoing between the two proposed merging parties is therefore likely to directly have an impact on our client’s position as a creditor and supplier. The WOW’s opposition seems to further complicate the Nakumatt, Tuskys merger, coming a day after the Competition Authority wrote to Tuskys Supermarket, asking the retailer to resolve shareholding wrangles before applying for any merger with other entities. Media reports indicates that CAK director general Wang’ombe Kariuki agreed to a merger objection by one of Tuskys Supermarket director Yusuf Mugweru who owns a 17.5 per cent stake in the retail chain. Efforts to reach the CAK director general were not fruitful by the time of going to press. He had denied receiving merger application from the two retailers in a recent interview. In September, Mugweru claimed his siblings sidelined him in ongoing negotiations with Nakumatt, and that he was yet to receive any information on the proposed deal. He insisted Tuskys has no capacity to bail out Nakumatt.