Two years ago,
the reign of Sam Nyamweya as the Football Kenya Federation came to an end. A
hurricane of sorts, led by Nick Mwendwa under ‘Team Change’, had convinced all
and sundry that it was time to head to the labour wards, with expectations of a
newborn football landscape to boot. It was
massive. Nyamweya fought until the bitter end, but on election day, inside a
packed Moi, Kasarani Indoor Arena, he threw in the proverbial towel. He
congratulated his young conqueror, a man he had mentored into football matters,
by then a Fifa Transfer Matching System official. Mwendwa moved
with speed, as expected, to institute structural changes. Key was moving the
federation headquarters from Nyayo Stadium. He shifted it to Kandanda House at
the Fifa Goal Project, east of the expansive Moi International Sports Complex,
Kasarani. However, it
wasn’t all rosy. “We inherited massive debts of over USD19 million (Sh190
million). We faced the wrath of auctioneers, seeking to auction the federation.
We were in bad books with Fifa. We dealt with numerous court cases, 19 in total.
But we found a way out, somehow,” says Mwendwa. “I would give
myself an 8/10 score. I am very pleased with the progress we have had. When we
got here, Kenya was on its deathbed. But now football is back, in the news. “We have done
most of the positive things, just as we wanted it. We have brought Kenya back to
the map of the game, and this is what we want to continue doing.” However, he
acknowledges that Kenya is not yet there, especially after missing out on major
tournaments, most recently the Africa Cup of Nations and the Fifa Under-20
women’s World Cup. “For 25-30
years, we did not invest in qualifying Kenya to the big tournaments,” he says.
“We were at the Africa Cup of Nations 13 years ago. This indicates that,
obviously, we have had a major problem.  “We needed
structures, now we have done that. We have brought a new coach to see how we
can get the results and qualify, especially for the 2019, 2021 Cup of Nations
and 2022 World Cup, which was a campaign promise. I feel that we have done what
is required to get us there.” STARS DON'T
SHINE But AFC
Leopards chairman, Dan Mule, was categorical. “The status of our football is
not right,” he said. “The national team (Harambee Stars) have performed poorly.” Stars were
pegged at position 98 at the close of the 2015 season before Mwendwa, who came
into power in February 2016, steered them to position 89 at the end
of 2016. Stars ranked 87 at the January 2017 rankings, but they have
since withered to 111 as at November 23. However, Mule
believes the hiring of a new coach, Belgian Paul Put, is a step in the right
direction, and promised to support him by availing players to the national
team. He remained
optimistic that Mwendwa’s regime will deliver, if only the ‘bad blood’ between
the governing body and Kenyan Premier League is done away with. “The two
bodies must sit and iron out their differences once and for all to allow us to
move forward in the development of the sport,” Mule said. “Nick has
tried,” he says, adding: “But there are some people misleading him. I can give
him a 5/10 score.” “I hope he
sticks to the statutes in doing his work, since this will bring little or no
confrontations and, therefore, deliver on his promises.” Despite a
motion to elongate the official term limit from a two four-year to a three
four-year period being shot down during the FKF AGM on November 19, Mule had no
objections. “If his
(Mwendwa’s) intentions are good for the sport, well and good. We have seen
other leaders who have had lengthy terms perform well, while others have failed
on shorter terms since they are usually not enough to lay down structures and
then work on the strategic plans,” he said. But Sports PS
Peter Kaberia relived his past career as a diplomat. “I think he
(Mwendwa) needs a little more time. Two years are not enough to revolutionise a
sector. It will be just a matter of time and we will know whether we are on the
right path,” he said. Mwendwa boasted
of bringing sponsors back into the game. Rightly so. SportPesa are a major
sponsor across the divide, while Safaricom, who had chickened out of a deal
with the previous administration, are back with the Chapa Dimba tournament, a
grassroots bonanza that seeks to unearth young talents across the counties. “We are
certain that we are going to have many more in the coming days. It’s an
evolution,” he says. But it seems
Mule is leaning towards an urgent intervention as he bemoaned that there is no
adequate cash to run both the national teams and the major FKF leagues like the
Premier League and the National Super League. “The
sponsorships are not enough here in Kenya,” he says. “The multinationals are
not doing enough like they are elsewhere in the region. They should come on
board and chip in a little more here and there to offer financial stability to
our clubs.” He went ahead
to propose that a Parliamentary Bill be moved by the Ministry of Sports, requiring
the corporates to support not only football but also sports in general. However,
Kaberia disagrees. “We cannot
force anyone to do that which he is not ready for,” he says. “We cannot micromanage
anyone or any corporate.”  Instead, he
said, with the right structures, it will be easy to pull through sponsorships,
adding that the legal frameworks established under Sports Act 2013 will be
crucial in ensuring the country’s short-term and long-term objectives across
the sports industry are achieved. “Our main
challenges have been lack of infrastructure, poor scouting and lack of a proper
system for developing young talents’ world class status,” adds Kaberia. “The
infrastructural development is already under way where we are working hand in
hand with county governments.” FKF and
national league managers, Kenyan Premier League, have had lengthy battles, but
Mwendwa remains positive that all will be well. “We have tried
to correct a few things that have made them go to court for a number of
occasions. We have to correct our membership, a cancer that has been there
since 2004. We look to improve and change that in the next two years. Our
contract (with KPL) ends in September 2020.” Kenya’s
biggest problem, he says, is investment in football.  “Investment,
right knowledge and right plan are our major challenges,” he says. “We have the
right plan in place and the investment is what we need now, and that’s why you
see us cooperating with the government and also hope that sponsors will bring
in more money.” “We have done
the grassroot development. We have trained over 2,000 coaches and we have a
national under 13 team,” he says, adding that this is the right age to deal
with in terms of developing the right football mentality. However, he
warns Kenyans against expecting overnight results. “It will take 10-15 years to
get the job well done,” he says. Mwendwa put
the record straight on the controversial promotion and relegation of teams to
and from the Kenyan Premier League and the National Super League. “Two (teams)
go up (to KPL) and two go down (to NSL),” he says. Thika United have threatened
to go to court to stop a playoff with the third-place finisher in the NSL
on December 2. Mwendwa warns:
“No going to court. It is our job to determine what criteria to be used. If
they want to go to court, let them do it. They know the consequences of such a
move. They will have to go to the Sports Disputes Tribunal and we see what
happens. But I want to tell you we are going for a two-legged playoff. I am
sure about that.” PROMISES
UNFULFILLED Extreme Sports
Limited Head of Operations and Coordination Athanas Obango believes that
Mwendwa is yet to deliver on the campaign promises he banked on when he took
over the reigns at Kandanda House. “There is no
meaningful development to talk about,” he says. “The FKF office are concerned
with sideshows. I feel they should have brought unity among stakeholders.
Instead, they have made it their obligation to flex their muscles on
individuals who are not in their good books. “There are so
many squabbles than in the previous regime and all I can afford is a 4/10
score.” However,
Obango believes the capacity building for coaches was a move in the right
direction. “The training
of coaches is such a noble course since this is something we lacked in the
previous regime. But it has not been done in the right manner,” he says. “The
criteria of identifying the coaches and their instructors, whom I feel are not
qualified. They are just handpicked individuals who don’t have expertise.” “I know Nick
very well and his passion for football is unquestionable. But he has these
people around him who, unfortunately, cannot challenge him on important issues
of national development,” he says. “Football is a
mass movement and he needs to work with not only the stakeholders, but also the
public.” Obango also took issue with Put’s appointment to lead the national
team. “The process
was not competitive. What criteria were used to land him? In addition, the
practice of hiring such a coach requires him to select his support staff. Why
are they forcing the likes of (Stanley) Okumbi as his assistants? In fact,
appointing Okumbi as the national team coach was a huge mistake.” “I also feel
we are having our priorities misplaced when it comes to the national teams. Why
do we have senior team coaches dropping down to the junior categories? We need
to have a permanent coach for each of the age-grade categories and women to
headline women’s technical benches,” he says. “This is the
only way to help the country develop world-class players to help us compete
with the best, not only in Africa but the world. Obango, whose
association is running various football activities, said they are not competing
with FKF. “All we saw
were big gaps in the development of football in the grassroots and went on to
start our activities. We are not competing with FKF. We would want to work with
them, but numerous approaches have gone unanswered,” he alleges. Obango said it
would be their wish to see some of their top players absorbed into the FKF-sanctioned
leagues, but this has not been possible since, he alleges, the teams have been
warned of dire consequences by the governing body. He says the
FKF-KPL feuds are man-made. “FKF being
disrespectful to KPL. There are agreements that were signed by the previous
regime and the current office must respect them, right or wrong. FKF should
stop bulldozing on stakeholders and insisting that they have their way at all
costs. KPL controls a lot of money and I feel this could be the problem.”