Politics has caused a major drop in revenue collection in Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago has said, noting the Sh1 billion target may not materialise. Mandago did not give exact figures but officials who sought anonymity said the county collected Sh970 million and may have lost about Sh300 million this year. Read: Sh1.1bn revenue from Uasin Gishu Also read: Uasin Gishu fails to hit Sh1 billion revenue target The Governor said many traders have not been paying taxes due to the political environment and so the county may not meet its targets. He noted their businesses have also suffered. "We are now urging residents of Eldoret and other parts to go back to work because we are through with elections. They must also ensure they pay taxes so we can provide services," he said. Mandago said county revenue staff would enhance revenue collection in markets and other areas. He added they will sensitise residents on the need to pay taxes so the county functions effectively. "We now have a President and Deputy President who will be sworn into office soon. We should refocus our energies on development." Mandago praised communities living in Eldoret, including those who support NASA, for maintaining peace and unity during the prolonged political season. He spoke in Eldoret while touring the site where Sweden will help set up a waste management system at a cost of  Sh500 million. Swedish officials led by Ostergotland Elisabeth Nilsson are in Eldoret to discuss the implementation of Uasin Gishu's solid waste management strategy. The project will see a Swedish company, Norrköping Water and Waste, put up the system at the Kipkaren Dumpsite and the Kipkenyo Sewer. The initiative will be spearheaded by the Uasin Gishu government and will also see the generation of electricity that will be supplied to the national power grid. Mandago hosted the Swedish delegation at his office before they took the tour. "We shall discuss power subsidies with the Ministry of Energy as an incentive to companies investing in the county," he said. Matatu operators in Rift Valley have also called on leaders from both Jubilee and NASA to reduce political activities and help revive the country's economy. Fred Wamu, chairman of the association in the region, said Kenyans must move on following the Supreme Court's validation of President Kenyatta's election victory. Wamu said many sectors were reeling from negative effects of too much politics.