Embu County Governor Martin
Wambora has sacked 14 chief officers who served in his first term and retained
only three of them. Embu county Assembly
speaker Josiah Thiriku has revealed that Wambora has forwarded the list of the 17
names he has nominated for the offices in order for the house to vet and
approve them. He said the vetting
will begin on November 28 after the end of this year’s Kenya Inter-County Sports and Cultural Association
(KICOSCA) games at Machakos where he led ward representative and a team
to represent the assembly. He said they want to
expedite with the vetting as fast as possible so that the COs can join the
recently approved 10 Chief officers in serving the residents to meet their
expectation according to the manifesto of the governor. Thiriku said further that
 Wambora has also forwarded the name of
the nominee for County secretary after his name was shelved owing to a technical
hitch and thus could not be vetted with executives. He said Johnson Nyagah whose
name had been presented together with 10 executives for vetting in September before
it was withdrawn has been forwarded again for vetting. He
at the same time said the assembly
has deliberated on a sh4.2 billion supplementary budget to cater for various
projects and other recurrent expenditures of the county. Thiriku said the
supplementary budget will ensure various services and projects are carried out  and that the biggest chunk of the cash will go
to health. Wambora  in September
sacked six out of his ten executives and replaced them with new ones. Wambora appointed seven new County Executive
Committee (CEC) members he worked with during his first term and replaced them
with new ones and only retained four of the former members of his executive
committee.. The CECs who the governor who was reelected in the
August 8 general election dropped included: Pauline Njagih who was in-charge of
health, Patricio Njiru (Agriculture livestock development and fisheries),  David Gitonga (Gender, children and social services,) Pamela Kiarie, (administration
and public services) Emily Thaara, Sports youth and women empowerment), and Dr.
Johnson Musomi (Trade and industries). Those whom he retained include: John Njagi in the finance
and planning, Suleiman Nyagah infrastructure, transport, energy housing and
public works, Josphat Kithumbu lands, physical planning and urban development,
Dr Jamleck Muturi who has been serving as education executive has been
reappointed in a different capacity in health.  