  Catholic Bishops yesterday called for constructive dialogue to end the
political crisis in the country.   The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops said
the church is convinced that national dialogue is necessary to move the country forward.   They said dialogue should be held, regardless of the outcome of cases in the Supreme Court, challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection on October 26.   “Having analyzed
and reflected on the entire situation that has unfolded in Kenya, we
have resolved to organize a National Dialogue Forum aimed at bringing
all the sectors of the Kenyan society together to look at the true
picture of the country and set the agenda for true discussion and
resolutions,” KCCB chairman Philip Anyolo said.   The bishops were speaking in Nakuru after a plenary meeting at the Christ the King Cathedral yesterday.   They said the dialogue forums will be directed at
difficulties of elections and the form of the electoral process,
national healing and reconciliation.   Bishop Anyolo said
they will also include long term issues of
governance, transparency and accountability in the dialogue.   “We shall offer an
opportunity to all Kenyan, especially the key political players to engage constructively in a bid to chat the way forward for the country," Anyolo said.   He said the dialogue will also re-look at the Constitution with a view to amending sections that 'remain problematic.' The bishops
called on political leaders to tone down their rhetoric.   "What we are witnessing
currently is disheartening. We invite the leaders to reflect
on what the Gospel says about leadership," Anyolo said. Anyolo, who is also the Homa Bay bishop read the statement on behalf of the bishops.   They expressed fear that current agitations for secession could divide the country further.   “We have heard
clarion calls for secession and civil obedience, demonstrations and
protests and boycotts which are only increasing tensions. Many
Kenyans are on the brim of losing hope and living in despair,” Anyolo said.   We ask leaders to
and all Kenyans to make and promote policies that ensure equitable
distribution of resources, to respect of human rights and dignity and
to promote economic growth and political stability.   “The resilience,
reconciliation and national cohesion has been put to test. We applaud
the tremendous hope that has been exhibited during this whole cycle
of electoral process. Lets continue praying for the country as we
spearhead the national dialogue,” said the Bishops.   The calls for
National dialogue comes at a time when National Churches Council of
Kenya led by Canon Peter Karanja called for a National Dialogue and
creation of the office of a prime Minister to settle the political
impasse surrounding the country.   At the same time, the Bishops prayed for the family of the Late Bishop Cornelious Koriri of Eldoret . 'He worked tirelessly for peace and reconciliation among conflicting communities hence the opportunity to reflect on the need of a long lasting peace in Kenya. He sacrificed and risked his life to mantain peace, justice and harmony;       Ends…. They said that they
have continually called upon political class to mind the country and
save it from falling into civil strife and anarchy.            