COULD something be cooking
between the two First Families regarding the 2022 presidential game plan? This
is a question many Kenyans, particularly Rift Valley residents, seek an answer
to, given President Uhuru Kenyatta's
occasional private meetings with retired President Daniel arap Moi and his son Gideon
Moi at their Kabarak home. Uhuru's visits leaving behind Deputy President William Ruto. Many people always learn
about the meetings through the media. The
encounters have been causing jitters among Rift Valley residents. Word has it
that Rift Valley MPs and residents, Ruto's staunch backers for his 2022 presidential
bid, have been worried that Uhuru and Moi are maybe
plotting to shortchange the Deputy President's bid – for Gideon.  ***** WHERE have the National Super
Alliance key leaders gone after the Supreme Court ruling that upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory? James Orengo, Musalia Mudavadi, Johnson
Muthama and Moses Wetang'ula have
been hyperactive in pushing the National Resistance Movement’s agenda of
boycotting certain products and nationwide protests, but they suddenly went
quiet after the ruling. Their leader Raila
Odinga fled to Zanzibar on Sunday and the country's political temperature
has since cooled down. Corridors have learned that the opposition team is
currently re-engineering itself to give direction to their supporters, now that
the green light has been received from the apex court for Uhuru to be sworn in
on Tuesday next week. ***** HOMA BAY Senator Moses Kajwang’ is a man under siege.
The young senator found himself in hot soup on Monday for being at the right
place with the 'wrong people'. The picture of the legislator in the company of
young Jubilee lawmakers taken in Naivasha, where they had gone for a Young
Parliamentarians meeting, has caused an enormous row. The legislature, his
fellow National Super Alliance colleagues and supporters at large are aghast.
The photo, which has gone viral on the social media, had Kajwang’ in the midst
of Jubilee MPs who were celebrating the Supreme Court verdict that upheld the
election of President Uhuru Kenyatta
for another term in office.  ***** A ruthless cartel of land
grabbers has hit Kisumu, orchestrating illegal sale of genuine landowners’
parcels. The cartels have been conniving with Ministry of Lands officials to
falsify title deeds and effect illegal transactions. Among the areas hardest-hit
are Riat, Kanyakwar and Mamboleo. The crooks even attempted to sell land
belonging to the Odinga family members near Uzima University. The deal fell through
after they were discovered. The Kisumu Residents’ Association has
raised the red flag over the crooks, but they appear immune to prosecution.
Residents will tomorrow demonstrate at Governor Anyang' Nyong’o’s office in a bid to address
the issue.        