Kenya Airways technical operators went on a go-slow yesterday in pushing for salary increases, threatening massive flight cancellations and disruption of services. The team includes base maintenance, line maintenance, technical workshops, cabin and inflight entertainment, multi-crew cooperation and technical assistants. According to a letter directed to the airline's chief executive on November 16, the technical team says the matter was resolved by the board in December last year and funds to settle the issue was released but the technical director has never released the funds till to date. “The technical director , Martin Heinz, was tasked with solving this matter but to our surprise, he has dilly-dallied by giving a raft of excuses that have left us feeling unimportant to the company one year since we successfully got the board to set aside money for our reward,” the letter seen by the Star said. The technical operators told the Star on mobile that they turned to a go-slow after efforts to have the matter discussed with the management became unsuccessful, with the management said to have ignored calls for a meeting. While giving reasons such as shortage of maintenance technicians in the country, high cost of training maintenance personnel, and an increasing migration of technicians to the Gulf countries due to poor pay in the country, the technicians are now demanding a minimum pay of Sh340, 000 for technical assistants and Sh1.2 million for the highest paid ones. Among the proposed basic salaries for different positions are the technicians’ position, who according to the proposal, should earn Sh500, 000, senior technician-Sh600, 000 engineer-Sh720, 000 and the senior engineer-Sh850, 000. While at that, the team highlighted required qualifications for recruits working as technical assistants, aircraft technicians, and maintenance engineer, with regards to their basic salaries. They also highlighted the hardship of getting a multi-engine rating- AMEL license as a factor to be considered in rewarding them a basic pay or any other allowances. This is not the first time for the airline staff to go on strike over poor pay, and unfriendly working environment. Last year, in September, the airline, which recently completely its Sh207.5 billion debt restructuring, saw tens of engineers leaving, citing poor pay, lack of promotions and unfavorable shift patterns. The incident saw increased flight disruptions and cancellations due to technical hitches for loss of engineers who were poached by rich Middle East airlines – Qatar Airways and Emirates. The current technical team now cling their hope on the new chief executive Sebastian Mikosz to solve the matter.  