Kenya has extended the payment of $750 million (Sh75 billion) syndicated loan it took in 2015 by six months, meaning the exchequer will pay more interest than expected. The 2017 budget outlook and review paper (BROP) shows that the country spent Sh271.3 billion in interest payments, of which Sh212.9 billion went towards domestic debt interest and Sh58.4 billion in external debt interest payments in the last financial year. Speaking during a press brief at a Nairobi hotel yesterday, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said that 90 per cent of the investors in the loan had agreed to extend the maturity by six months until April 2018, while the remaining 10 per cent that did not want to extend were repaid on October 27. The original Sh75 billion loan was syndicated to a group of 26 banks and arranged by Citigroup, Standard Bank and Standard Chartered. The loan was to address some of the interest rates pressures by then and attracted a 5.7 per cent interest. It reached maturity at the end of last month. Although the CS did not give reasons for extension, pundits believe that the extension was necessitated by low revenue collection due to the minimal business activities during the prolonged election cycle and bloated election budget estimated at more than Sh12 billion. ‘’The country has experienced long and tense political activities in the past four months that saw businesses adapt a wait-and-see attitude, hurting the country’s revenue collection targets. The state has so far missed Sh40 billion in revenues since the beginning of this financial year,’’ said Rotich. He was quick to note that the country’s fiscal deficit has slowed from 8.5 per cent last year to the current 6.4 per cent and that the Treasury is targetting a fiscal shortfall of less than five per cent next year. Rotich praised Kenya’s resilience in a tense and long election cycle, stating that the economy will rebound to six per cent next year and seven per cent in the medium term. This year, the country’s economy is projected to grow at between five to 5.1 per cent ‘’The fact that we have managed two presidential elections in a span of two months goes to illustrate the resilient nature of our economy. All economic fundamentals are solid and Kenya is moving on,’’ said Rotich. He said the macro-economic environment has remained stable with the rate of inflation declining through the year to stand at 5.72 per cent for the month of October, the lowest in the past 15 months, while the exchange rate has remained stable. “To further demonstrate the stability of our economy, our foreign exchange reserves stand at $ 8 billion, translating to about a 5-month import cover. We have kept our fiscal deficit at manageable level vis-a-vis our GDP, and shall continue to do so,’’said Rotich.  