A poll petition witness on Wednesday said Rtd Colonel Geoffrey King’ang’i hired witches to give voters raw meat in a ritual to elect him as Mbeere South MP. King’ang’i denied the allegations, describing them as pure lies. He said the witness is being used by Kamau Nyutu, who has filed the petition against his victory in the August 8 General Election. The MP said the witness could not prove the allegations and that he is only out to malign his name. Kevin Murimi was a witness for the petitioner, who came in fifth in the election results. Murimi said King’ang’i used two witch doctors to administer  the ritual to voters on July 22. Murimi said the voters were each given Sh500 and that two well-known witch doctors gave each of them a piece of raw meat to eat so if they did not vote for King’ang’i unknown misfortune would befall them. The witness said he participated in slaughtering of the bull the previous night and that some of the meat was cooked and some  pieces left raw. They were given to the voters the following day.  Murimi told justice Robert Limo that he was a former supporter of King’ang’i before they fell out. He said on that day, about 3,000 voters from Mbeere South met at King’ang’i’s farm in Kiritiri where he treated them to a party after slaughtering a bull. King’ang’i is represented by lawyer Elias Mutuma and Nyutu by lawyer Kirimi Quantai. When asked whether he ate the raw meat he said he did not because he left before the ritual was conducted. Murimi could also not name the residents said to have eaten the raw meat.  He could not give the names of the witches whom he alleged administered the oath, saying although they are well-known he did not know their names. Murimi said he was in good books with King’ang’i between February and July before he switched allegiance to Nyutu. He said people voted for King’ang’i for fear of what may befall them after the ritual.  Murimi said Nyutu used him as a spy on King’ang’i so that he would be a witness to some of the things he collected. Mutuma said Murimi is a liar and that what he was telling the court was a fabrication that never took place as alleged. In the poll, King’ang’i got 18,225 votes, against Nyutu’s 2,810.