  ODM yesterday failed to meet over the EALA posts amid speculation party leader Raila Odinga (pictured) will have the final say. The meeting was postponed as ODM luminaries were said to be engaged in making final preparations for today’s Jacaranda memorial rally for opposition supporters killed by police. Sources told the Star the party’s top decision-making organ was contemplating meeting on Monday night to agree on the names. ODM chairman John Mbadi, however, told the Star the party’s Central Management Committee will meet tomorrow to decide on the list. “We will submit the list on Thursday. The committee is meeting on Wednesday to agree on the names,” Mbadi told the Star on the phone. Political parties are expected to submit the names of their nominees to the Speaker of the National assembly Justin Muturi today – but being a holiday – the parties have up to Wednesday. There has been haggling and intense lobbying among loyalists for the three slots. The Orange party is entitled to three nominees, Jubilee five while Wiper has one slot to the EALA with all the three main parliamentary parties keen in ensuring regional, gender and political interests. NASA CEO Norman Magaya is poised to top the list of the ODM nominees to the regional assembly, Star has learnt. The law don, according to sources, has been able to win the confidence of all NASA affiliate parties and is being credited for the inter-parties cohesion that has kept NASA intact. Raila was expected to chair the party’s meeting yesterday to agree on the three names. Also having one foot in the regional Parliament door is Raila’s elder brother Oburu Odinga. Other big guns who have expressed interest and are presenting headache to ODM are Raila’s field and political adviser Silas Jakakimba, ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire and organising secretary Abdikadir Adan. Already the over 200 hopefuls who picked nomination papers from Parliament last week have been meeting influential party officials and close allies of party leaders to lobby for the positions ahead of deadline.