The health sector faces multiple challenges stemming from perennial strikes
by personnel; escalating costs of treatment and drugs; inadequate universal health coverage; and dilapidated health
infrastructure. The rising prevalence of non-communicable diseases also
poses a major threat. Such
constraints continue to impose immense strain on the health system. As a
result, the majority of Kenyans are disenfranchised from essential
medicare. This is unfortunate considering the Constitution guarantees
every Kenyan the right to health services.  Resolving
these challenges will require going beyond obvious
interventions such as improving the working terms of health workers and
revamping the health services infrastructure. There’s a parallel but
urgent need to tackle hidden constraints that increase the
cost of treatment and care. We
need to begin by reconfiguring our health service delivery model,
especially how we pay for services ranging from treatment to care
and medicines. The risk of providing such services often falls on the
government for public facilities and on hospitals and medical insurers
for private health services. Depending on the agreed payment model, the
burden and risks associated with payment invariably end up on the
shoulders of the health insurer.  There
is therefore need for an innovative model that balances the interests
of the patient, the care provider and the health service underwriter, be
it government or private insurers. This means adopting a health service
payment model that encourages provision of quality services while
curbing fraud and associated malpractices that inevitably push up costs.  There
are various health service payment models, but the two most prominent are
capitation and fee-for-service. Capitation is where a doctor or health
provider is paid a set fee for each patient they treat. Whether the
doctor treats fewer or more patients than the stipulated number, they are
only entitled to be paid the agreed sum. Under the fee-for-service
model, payment is based on the number and type of procedures used to
treat the patient. Each of these models has its benefits and drawbacks.  Whereas
capitation is more predictable in terms of cost of treatment, it may
lead to withholding of expensive but necessary procedures to avoid
incurring losses by exceeding the pre-agreed fee. There is however no
risk of cost overruns, thus minimising risks on the part of the health
insurance provider.  Fee-for-service
on the other hand allows health providers leeway with procedures,
emphasising quality over quantity. However, fee-for-service is prone to
abuse, for example, where health providers prescribe unnecessary
procedures in order to maximise revenue. It is also viewed as an
“excessive cost” system since it's volume driven. So
the question arises, should Kenya’s health system adopt one or
the other or both? Fee-for-service works optimally where the majority of
the population enjoy access to health insurance coverage. This allows
for wider spreading of risk while ensuring quality treatment as patients
are able to access crucial procedures, even if expensive.  In
Kenya, only a small fraction of the population enjoys access to formal
health insurance. In a bid to maximise revenue by offering services to
this small group, health providers are often tempted to over-prescribe
tests, procedures and drugs. Cases of inflated medical bills and
fraudulent claims are rampant in the private healthcare system.  Reining
in such risks requires a model that not only assures health providers
that they will recoup their costs, but also incorporates a foolproof
system to weed out malpractices like overbilling and lodging of fake
claims. Additionally, there must be a way of pre-approving certain
procedures to curb unnecessary prescriptions.  As
a country, we should explore the option of having capitation as an
effective way of checking escalating cost of treatment, while giving
scope to health providers to prescribe necessary procedures subject to
certain pre-agreed limits. In other words, what we need is a blend of
both models as an effective solution to the constraints bedevilling our health system.  Munene is the Managing Director, AAR Insurance Kenya Limited