Mt Kenya leaders have formed a caucus to push development and cooperation between MPs and 12 county governments. The matter of wrangles was termed key as Kenya shifts focus to President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession. The leaders discussed how to support governors with ideas and avoid leadership wrangles. Related: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate Also read: Mt Kenya supports NASA, Raila says after receiving Koigi Wamwere, Kirugi M’Mukindia These and other decisions were made at a weekend golf and dinner meeting organised by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria at Thika Greens Golf Resort. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and 38 Members of Parliament from the 12 counties attended. Kuria said the elected leaders resolved to work together for the counties' economic development through steps such as improving infrastructure and education. The leaders also talked about forming a regional economic block and the joint management of tea and coffee. The caucus will also collectively lobby the national government for more mega projects in water and irrigation within the Mt Kenya counties Creation of jobs for the youth, improving access to electricity and street lighting also featured. The lawmakers further resolved to work on ways of developing low-cost housing and golf resorts in each of the counties. Rotational meetings The leaders further agreed to hold the monthly meetings in rotation - the next one was set for Kiraitu Murungi's Meru county in December. Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Joseph Nduati (Gatanga), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Kimari Kihara (Mathioya) represented Meru. Nyandarua had Faith Wairimu Gitau (woman representative) while Laikipia county was represented by Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West). John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani) and Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central) represented Mike Sonko's Nairobi county. Nakuru had Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Kinuthia Gachobe (Subukia) and Kimani Kuria (Molo) while Waiguru attended alongside Senator Charles Kibiru, Ndia MP George Kariuki and Kirinyaga Central's Munene Wambugu. Kiambu also had Gathoni Wamuchomba (woman representative), Githua Wamachukuru (Kabete), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North) and Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town). Nyeri was represented by Rahab Mukami (woman representative)), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Gathiaka Kiai (Mukurweini), Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu), and Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya). Tharaka Nithi had Beatrice Nkatha (woman representative) and Gitonga Murugara (Tharaka) while Embu had Njeru Ndwiga (Senator), Jane Njiru (woman representative) and Muriuki Njagagua (Mbeere North). Meru was represented by Kathuri Murungi (Imenti South), Moses Kirima (Imenti Central) and Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri). Lamu West MP Robert Muthama also attended the meeting. Click here for the latest political news