At least five public-owned sugar companies are likely to be privatised by August 2018, the Privatization Commission has said. The commission's chair Henry Obwocha yesterday announced it has kicked off engagements with key stakeholders to find an amicable solution that will pave way for the sale of the five firms which include Chemelil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Nzoia and Sony Sugar. The stakeholders’ engagement exercise is expected to take place over the next two months. The engagement follows a ruling by the High Court made on November 10 this year that stopped efforts to halt privatization of the said firms. The court ruled that the efforts were premature and that resolving the dispute would be taking the prior jurisdiction of the organs of the Intergovernmental Relations Act, through which the governments is required to make every reasonable effort to settle the dispute. The ruling was a response to a consolidated petition by Kisumu, Bungoma and Migori county governments against the privatization of the sugar companies. According to the commission's acting chief executive Jacqueline Muindi, completion of the engagement will set the stage for re-advertisement of requests for expression of interest, shortlisting of the pre-qualified firms and invitation of bids. “It is expected once we have a list of those who have expressed interest to take at least seven to nine months, suppose we finish the stakeholders’ consultations by end of January, then we could be looking at August 2018 as the close of sale of the 51 per cent stake,” Muindi said. The strategic investors will have 51 per cent of shareholding in each of the five sugar companies. The remaining 49 per cent will be divided into two, where a trust - to be formed by farmers and employees, will hold 24 per cent and the government will hold 25 per cent, which they currently hold temporarily. However, there are ongoing consultations as directed by the court between the stakeholders, the county governments and the national governments on the aspects of whether sugar production is an agriculture function which is devolved or a public investments function. “The matter is being dealt with through the intergovernmental technical relations committee for ultimate consideration at the summit which is between the county government and the national government who should decide what level of government should control the sugar industry,” one of the commissioners Boaz Mbaya said. The investors are expected to come with financial, technical and operational expertise in exchange for a 51 per cent stake in the sugar companies. The technical and operational expertise will ensure that upon privatization, the sugar companies are run efficiently and effectively for the benefit of all stakeholders who include the sugarcane farmers, employees, shareholders and the communities in the cane growing catchment areas. The injection of private capital in the firms is expected to go a long way in rehabilitating and modernising the millers for competitive and sustainable production. If successful, the commission expects a rise in sugar production hence an increase in exports to the regional markets.