Learning at 31 public universities may be disrupted for longer than expected as lecturers are in a bruising battle with the government over non-implementation of their CBA. The dons kicked off their strike last Wednesday over the government's failure to fully implement their 2013/17 collective bargaining agreement. This is the third time they have downed their tools this year to push the implementation of the agreement that expired on June 30. The CBA signed on March 13 awarded lecturers a 17.5 per cent increase in basic salary and a 3.9 per cent increase in house allowance across the board. The lecturers say they are not ready to be fooled again as the Sh10 billion they received from the government did not sustain the new rates. The money was used to service arrears accrued from July 2013.   Read: Lecturers kick off strike over Sh10 billion CBA Constantine Wasonga, University Academic Staff Union secretary general, said they are not only pushing for the implementation of the 2013/17 CBA but also for the negotiation and signing of the 2017/21 CBA.  "The National Executive Council gave me firm instructions to only call off this strike when all 31 universities negotiate, implement and deposite the negotiate document with the Employment and Labour Relations Court." Wasonga spoke during a press conference at Technical University of Kenya in Nairobi on Monday.  "It is not only about basic salaries and house allowances. I don't see this strike ending in the near future. I'm foreseeing this thing going on for one and a half years," Wasonga said. The doctors' strike lasted 100 days and the one by nurses 152 days, Internal CBAs with universities, whose signing lecturers are also pushing for, were to be completed by May 15 and pave way for fresh negotiations for the 2017/21 CBA in July. "We are four months late. Other sector employees are already enjoying their 2017/21 CBAs. This time round UASU will not negotiate at the tail-end of the CBA circle," a tough -talking Wasonga said. He thanked lecturers across the country for demonstrating solidarity  by staying away from halls. But Wasonga empathised with students saying lecturers will make up for the lost time by teaching for longer once their demands are met. "Immediately the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum and the government dispenses of this thing, I will instruct lecturers throughout the country to go the extra mile and teach you daytime, prep time and even dawn time." The secretary general proposed that national dialogue takes place to save the higher education sector from collapse. "Universities are underfunded, there is no money for research and they don't even pay statutory deductions. TUK owes members close to one billion," he said. "At University of Nairobi, for the last two months and with two days to month-ends,  you see a notice reading 'salaries are going to delay, bear with us'. We are not going to bear with you," Wasonga said.   The renewed strike is likely to disrupt end of semester exams and next year's learning calendar in most public universities across the country. It is also likely that students will not graduate at the end of the year.    