Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe of Jubilee Party yesterday lost the first round in an election petition challenging his August 8 victory. The petition, filed by Amisi Omukanda of Maendelo Democratic Party, seeks to have the MP’s election overturned. It will proceed to full hearing after Justice Jesse Njagi dismissed an application by Wangwe to have the suit terminated because of technicalities over a bounced cheque. Njagi yesterday fixed the petition for mention on Tuesday next week. The petition will be heard continually from November 20-24. Wangwe, through lawyer Geoffrey Mulanya, had said Omukanda failed to comply with petition rules.   sh500,000 Cheque He said records at the registry indicated a Sh500,000 cheque drawn for security for costs by the petitioner bounced. Mulanya said Omukanda did not rectify the problem with a valid checkwithin 10 days as required by law. He added the cheque was drawn by a company, where another Navakholo MP race loser, Simbauni Ndombi, is a director. “The Act is clear and states that the petitioner shall deposit security for costs within 10 days,” he said. “The petitioner didn’t comply. On that ground, this case should be dismissed in its entirety.” Omukanda, through lawyer June Ashioya, argued that failure to pay security costs does not render the petition invalid and it should not be dismissed. “After realising the cheque bounced, the petitioner paid the money and in fact incurred a penalty of Sh650,” Ashioya said. Justice Njagi ruled the court has the discretion to extend the period within which a petitioner can pay the cash. “We cannot subvert the will of the people of Navakholo because the petitioner corrected the anomaly by paying the money in cash,” he said. vote tally Omukanda alleges the vote tally was manipulated and ungazetted polling stations used in favour of his rival. He says such acts violated the law and election regulations. Wangwe has lined up 19 witnesses to prove his victory to the court. He said he was ready for the full hearing. ANOTHER PETITION Meanwhile, the hearing of a petition challenging the election of Vihiga Governor Wilbur Otichillo failed to kick off on Wednesday after the petitioner failed to turn up. Kakamega resident Judge Ruth Sitati ordered that both parties be in court yesterday for hearing. “We are not going to allow the court to be taken for granted,” she warned. Vihiga voter Hamza Murunga wants the governor’s victory annulled on grounds that it was marred by irregularities and errors.  He cites counting and tallying of votes.  Murunga is the only witness in the case.