Kenya’s agricultural exports to the European market are set to increase following the completion of a Sh250 million laboratory that will ensure produce meet international standards. The facility, unveiled yesterday, will ensure fertiliser, seeds, soils and water are tested before they are used by farmers. It will also ensure healthy plants, safe trade and sustainable agro-environment for the development of the sector. Opening the laboratory complex, Deputy President William Ruto said the project is a milestone in the development of agriculture. The facility was constructed jointly by the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate and the European Union. Ruto said the laboratory came at a time when there was increasing public demand for quality and safe food worldwide. It will also ensure Kenya has quality seeds, fertiliser as well as tested water and soils that can facilitate improved food production for both domestic and export purposes. “The laboratory will help the government access the international rules for seed, fertiliser and water testing that aid in promoting trade between Kenya and EU countries,” Ruto said. Addressing Kephis workers at their Karen offices after opening the laboratory complex, Ruto said exports to the European markets will increase as a result of the facility. “Kephis can now have the opportunity to ensure we have good quality seeds, fertiliser, tested soils and water that are beneficial to our farmers,” Ruto said. The laboratory will also test GMO foods and eliminate the fear among Kenyans that such products are in the country. He asked exporters and farmers to take advantage of the facility to access new markets.  “The value of the laboratory will be measured in what we achieve in exporting food products and the access to markets outside the country for our tea, coffee, flowers among other farm produce,” Ruto said.  EU head of development and cooperation Hubert Perr said they will work closely with Kephis to ensure more agricultural produce access European markets. “It’s encouraging that Kephis has put in place measures to ensure high quality produce hit the EU markets,” Perr said.