Don't steal, serve the people and tarmac more roads. These are among the orders Embu Governor Martin Wambora has given his executives, saying residents have high expectations that were not fulfilled in his first term. Wambora told reporters in his office on Tuesday that executives must not loot county resources, adding that their salaries are sufficient. Residents in all 130 sublocations must benefit from devolution, he said. Finance executive John Njagi was directed to provide a new e-revenue collection system, as the current one is "completely ineffective". The county needs more funds for development and services, the county boss said. Wambora asked him to activate the new Embu Revenue Authority to enhance revenue collection, aiming for Sh1 billion. The Infrastructure executive is to continue and accelerate tarmacking key roads. Embu residents should have the best infrastructure in Kenya, the governor said. The Housing executive was directed to put up proper housing using the Public Private Partnership initiative funds. He said the county assembly is expected to allocate Sh35 million to offset debts incurred by the old local authority. Wambora said investors are willing to finance contractors and said local builders should be used as much as possible. He asked the County Executive Committee to work with banks to offer affordable home mortgages to be repaid over more than five years. Giving people housing loans for five years has been "killing" residents because that repayment period is too short, the governor said. Agriculture is the county's biggest employer and the executive was urged to increase production. The government has been buying quality seeds of maize, sorghum, millet and other grains to increase yield. The county is famous in East and Central Africa for its macadamia nuts and production should be increased, Wambora said. Embu should dominate the market and explore varieties of macadamia that are suited to dry areas, he said. Wambora said the county will continue supporting tea and coffee farmers and ensure they get markets and fair prices.    