The inauguration of Nyeri governor has been postponed indefinitely, Information CEC Muthui Kariuki has said, amid concerns about procedures. The swearing-in follows the death of Wahome Gakuru after a grisly road accident near Kenol on Tuesday morning. [VIDEO] Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru dies in Thika hospital The transition team had said deputy governor Mutahi Kahiga would take oath on Thursday afternoon before High Court judge Jairus Ngaah at 2pm. Kahiga will be the fourth governor of the devolved unit. First county boss Nderitu Gachagua died after a long illness paving way for the inauguration of his deputy Samuel Wamathai. Gakuru defeated Wamathai in the August 8 general election. The CEC told journalists on Wednesday that the deputy governor cannot execute any order before the swearing-in. "The deputy governor was of the view that we first bury the governor but the government must continue to run," Kariuki said. "It was not our wish to have him sworn-in immediately but the constitution gives us few options for delaying the process." The official added that the county wishes to spend money on the governor's funeral but the DG cannot sign cash documents. Kahiga has hinted that he might retain the newly appointed CECs who were sworn-in last week. However, the CECs will be required to take fresh oaths of office since they will be under a new leadership. The county might remain without a deputy governor since the law is silent on how the seat should be filled. Nyeri legal officer Mwangi Mugo said the constitution has not clearly indicated whether the new governor can appoint a deputy. Section 182 (4) of the constitution only covers what is to be done in the event a deputy governor is indisposed. The law states the county assembly speaker assumes the role of governor for 60 days in the event the DG is unable to act. New chief officers who are undergoing interviews might not be affected by the change of leadership. Kahiga will complete the elective term of the second county government with all powers and privileges. The death of a governor does not precipitate a by-election irrespective of the time it occurs.