The city is very calm as we talk. Indeed, the whole city is very safe, secure and members of the public are generally going about their day-to-day activities as usual. They have gone to their places of worship without any disruption at all and we expect that to continue – even after tomorrow’s decision is delivered by the Supreme Court. You know when there is any matter before the court there are those who would be happy or unhappy with the decision, therefore ours is to ensure that law and order are maintained there is no threat to life and property. However, this morning we got a report of some incidents. We got a report of four people having been murdered within Mathare Area 4. It is indeed very unfortunate. We went to the scene of crime and found those bodies with injuries. We have commenced our investigations and are confident that whoever has committed that offence will be arrested and taken to court to answer to charges for the wrongs he has committed. Whoever committed it, I will not tell you whether he belongs to an organized criminal gang or not, let us give the investigators time because that will come out. We are aware that there are some leaders inciting residents of this city, mainly those in the informal settlements. We ask, and we are stating clearly, that those leaders must stop that and let us be responsible. We are aware of many organized criminal gangs, but whether you belong to this organized criminal gang or that one, you are a criminal and we will deal with you. We are aware that there are those who have started inciting communities against one another. We want to say that what happened has nothing to do with ethnic clashes. Murder has been committed, but has nothing to do with ethnic clashes. There is the National Police Service, and, as I have stated, with our counterparts from Prisons who have come to support us, we are committed and we know we are able to the task to ensure that the city indeed is calm.  What we have done and the strategy we have put in place is to enhance the police presence and police patrols in the whole areas of Mathare, Baba Dogo and their neighbourhoods. We are committed to ensuring that exactly happens. The writer is the Nairobi Police Commander