A KCPE candidate defied odds to emerge the best in Kuresoi South and North constituencies with 403 marks. Ryan Kipkoech, 13, is the son of single mother Lily Chumo who works as a house help. More on tests: Kakamega girl top in KCPE with 455 marks The mother of three said she got divorced from her husband due to alcoholism. "We used to have sleepless nights due to quarrels since he did not provide anything. I decided to hustle to raise my kids," she told the press on Wednesday. Chumo said she did household jobs and other casual work on neighbours' farms but would only get Sh150 per day. She said she used some of this money to buy chemicals to make detergents which she supplied to the school for her son to keep on learning. The resident of Kapsimbeuywo village in Kuresoi South said the liquid soap did not earn her much cash and that she had to ask her family members for handouts. "My other two children were in public school...I really struggled to buy food," she said. "I have been doing casual jobs in Kuresoi. My boy had to drop out but the owners of the school offered to fully sponsor him." Elijah Kirui and Stanley Soi, directors of Silver Lilies Academy which Kipkoech attended, fully sponsored his education. Chumo said the directors reached out to her when they learned of her struggle. Kirui said they decided to help because the family had undergone much struggle yet the boy showcased brilliance at a tender age. "I am happy to learn that the boy whose fee we paid did well." Kirui said he started the school in 2009 with the main aim of helping needy but bright students. He said he was happy that they had sent several pupils to national schools.The school produced the best candidate in the two sub-counties with 415 marks. Chumo does not have money for her children's secondary education but hopes God will provide. She joined a Kericho private school's subordinate staff team in January and can afford food for her children but is uncertain about other matters. Kipkoech, who hopes to be an engineer, said they would have been living in poor condition had it not been for the well-wishers. "I will work hard when I join secondary school so as to help my mother in future," he said, adding he would take any job offered by the school's directors. More on this: Best KCPE candidate scores 455, no cheating or missing marks - Matiang'i Click here for the latest on politics and more