The Seventh Dredging and Land Reclamation Asia Summit was held in Singapore from August 1-4 this year. It was attended by port operators from all over Asia, the Middle East, and Europe. The major focus of this summit was “Land Reclamation for Residential, Industrial, Commercial or Institutional Development and Urban Expansion”. It was no accident that this conference was held in Singapore, as it is one of the most successful nations in dredging and land reclamation.  Singapore has actually increased its land size by 20 per cent through land reclamation — the process of creating new land from ocean, riverbeds, or lakebeds. The land reclaimed is known as reclamation ground or landfills. Singapore is not unique in this. Other countries and cities have also done it.  From the coastlines of Mumbai, India — which involved joining seven original islands to create the current city — to China, Brazil, Australia, New York City, the Netherlands, and many other places, land reclamation is a standard technique for optimizing on the use of geographically strategic shorelines to create new land for residential and commercial use. Entire airports in places as far-flung as Korea, Japan and Qatar are built on reclaimed land. In Beirut, Lebanon, for example, the Central Business District is all on reclaimed land. Why should all this be of any interest to Kenyans in general and the people of Mombasa in particular? The reasons can be given in just two words: Amsterdam and Dubai. Amsterdam is Europe’s fourth biggest port, and serves a vast hinterland within Europe moving millions of tons of bulk cargo. Together with its sister city, Rotterdam, Amsterdam is the major logistics and transportation hub of all Europe. This of course is what Mombasa county is supposed to be for all of East Africa — a transport and logistics hub by sea, rail and air.  As for Dubai, anyone who has spent much time at JKIA will be aware it is a major transit point, the massive number of entrepreneurs from West Africa, whose main business is to travel to Dubai to make purchases at the duty-free shops or other trade centres. Indeed, Dubai has a private company, the Economic Zones World FZE which, to quote the authoritative Bloomberg News, “Together with its subsidiaries, develops and operates economic zones; and technology, logistics, and industrial parks. It also develops, sells, and leases warehouses; and provides facility management services.” The company’s portfolio includes Jebel Ali Free Zone Authority, a free zone; Techno Park, a research-driven business and industrial park; and Dubai Auto Zone, an industry specific free zone. From this it should be clear that if Kenya had its own Special Economic Zones, as they are generically termed, those tens of thousands of West Africans and others, who pass through JKIA on their way to Dubai would not need to go further than the Kenyan coast to source all their trade goods right here in Mombasa County.  The investment as well as the employment opportunities that could ensue would be on a scale which might well make it unnecessary for Mombasa residents to seek employment in the Middle East, as so commonly happens now. There would be a doubling or even a tripling of the port-related jobs available in Mombasa, along with the spinoff effects of jobs in construction, transport, as well as in retail and wholesale trade.  Mombasa has a vast hinterland in East and Central Africa which would be served by such expansion. This should be a huge market in all of West Africa, which would be served by the Special Economic Zones set up on reclaimed land, exactly as happened in Dubai. My point is that Mombasa, under devolution, should by now be well on its way to becoming the Amsterdam or Rotterdam of East Africa and the Dubai of Africa. There should be massive port expansion going on, as well as massive land reclamation efforts being made.  However, what we see is Governor Hassan Joho’s government waging war via all kinds of tactics, including the ongoing court action, against the only substantial attempt that has been made thus far to create modern port-related opportunities in Mombasa: The Makupa Transit Shade, which is not only a land reclamation project, but easily the most significant and environmentally friendly such investment.  Joho should support this project and work together with the initiators to resolve the factors that set them apart. It is time Mombasa became the Dubai of Africa, or the Amsterdam of the Eastern Africa region.   