Kenya Lionesses coach Kevin Wambua has set his sights on reaching final in the the women’s invitational tournament in Dubai Sevens next month. Wambua said they will be using the tournament and the Hong Kong Sevens as useful build-up for the Commonwealth Games set for Gold Coast in April next year. “Last year in Dubai, we reached the semifinals. The girls game is growing and learning fast. I hope this time round, we can make it to the final,” added Wambua. Wambua said if they can make it to the final, they have a chance to play in the women’s World Sevens Series qualifiers slated for next year. “In the long term, I want us to be playing in the World Seven Series like the men do and rub shoulders with the best team in the world,” added Wambua. Wambua said it’s just only a matter of time before they start beating powerhouses like South Africa after two narrow losses in the past one year. “ I think now it’s mental. Our mindset must change but we have talent and we are at par as far as the game management is concerned. We have matched them and I can assure next time we play with them, we will beat them,” added Wambua. In this year’s Africa Cup Sevens, Kenya lost 17-12 to South Africa and also last year when they succumbed to 22-17 defeat. Wambua observed that shifting speedstar Janet Okello from wing to playmaker has paid dividends for the side. “Most teams have been marking her on the wing but as the technical bench, we thought it was prudent to move her to more central role where she can read the game and create opportunities for her teammates,” added Wambua. Meanwhile, the Safaricom Youth Network Blaze has today announced a Sh 1.5 million sponsorship for Impala Floodlights 2017 tournament set to kick off this Saturday at the Impala grounds. The sponsorship is based on the fact that the Impala Floodlights offers a great platform for rugby, supports grassroots engagement and development of youth talent. “Blaze is a youth network that continues to engage young men and women in their environment with the aim of supporting their talent. We settled on Impala Floodlights tournament because it goes hand in hand with our theme this year which is “greatness requires internal toughness,” said Sylvia Mulinge, Safaricom consumer business direcrtor “The intense training, preparation and dedication required to take part in the tournament resonates with our message that to get what you want you, must persevere through the challenges. Our aim is to amplify our engagements with the youth and connect with them through activities that not only enable them to engage, but also enhance their growth and well-being,” said Ms Mulinge. The tournament, which runs for 3 weeks, will kick off with the quarterfinals before paving way for semifinals to be held on November 11 and the finals on November 18. 