Moi University acting vice chancellor Laban Ayiro — who has turned around the instituion — seeks to retain his post in a permanent position as he revamps the varsity. Prof Ayiro was at the centre of nationwide controversy in September 2016 when Rift Valley governors protested that he was an outsider and less qualified than a favoured Rift native. Ayiro is one of the eight shortlisted by the university council for an interview. More than 100 top dons applied. He has acted for more than a year after former VC Richard Mibey retired. The interviews are scheduled for Monday next week at the main campus. Others on the shortlist are Professors J. Chacha, Ann Nangulu, Samuel Gudu, Joseph Rotich, Isaac Kosgey, Maurice Amutabi and Isaac Kibwage. Kosgey emerged tops in the interviews whose results were cancelled by Education CS Fred Matiang’i in September last year. Matiang’i appointed Ayiro to lead the institution in an acting capacity. Residents and politicians, led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos, protested against the decision and demanded that Kosgey be installed as the new VC. They stormed the university and threatened to eject Ayiro from office. Mandago said Kosgey merited serving as the varsity boss. This sparked countrywide condemnation, as Kenyans warned against entrenching ethnicism in public institutions. DP William Ruto defended Matiang’i and urged politicians and residents to keep off the university affairs. In the past year, Ayiro has turned around the institution that had been on the verge of collapse. The once-vibrant university had been ailing when he took over. It had been rocked by allegations of poor management by the previous administration. Three top managers were suspended over misuse of funds. Ayiro streamlined management and reduced the number of campuses to consolidate resources and improve learning quality. He advised that the university to focuss on fewer campuses. “We must make tough decisions on how big the university should be,” he said during his inaugural address. The varsity, named in honour of retired President Daniel Moi, is rebranding and implementing new projects valued at more than Sh5 billion. Ayiro’s tenure has been extended three times, pending appointment of a substantive head. “I write to extend your appointment for a period of six months. This appointment automatically terminates on the appointment of a substantive vice chancellor should that happen within the six months,” Matiang’i said in a letter on September 12. This came after the contract was extended for three months on December 9, 2016, and another six months in March.    