NASA will announce later on Saturday its decision regarding swearing-in Raila Odinga as president, Johnson Muthama has said. NASA leaders led by Raila, who is ODM leader, met in Machakos county on Saturday to discuss their political way forward. Related: Raila risks jail for treason if he takes presidential oath The meeting at Maanzoni lodge in Mavoko sub-county began in the morning with campaign strategist Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and  Muthama's co-chairman James Orengo in attendance. Several NASA governors, senators, woman representatives and MPs are also attending the meeting. Wiper leader
Kalonzo Musyoka, who was Raila's running mate in the August 8 election, and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula (Bungoma Senator) were not at the venue. Muthama said their intention to swear-in Raila in a parallel meeting next week is lawful and that it is their constitutional right.  "On swearing-in Raila as president, we will make a decision today," he told the press during a tea break, adding fresh elections should be conducted as soon as possible. "We want to confirm to Kenyans that NASA is on course. We believe more than 65 per cent of Kenyans voted for Raila in August." Muthama criticised the plan to swear-in president-elect Uhuru Kenyatta next Tuesday, saying NASA leaders and their supporters do not
recognise him as their leader. The former Machakos Senator said Uhuru elected himself so they will not recognise him. "We thought it important to meet and
chart the way forward. The decision will
be announced after the meeting today," he said. "From tomorrow, as long as Uhuru
sits as President of Kenya, we will not recognise him as legitimate." The former lawmaker further said NASA sent an invitation to Jubilee
leaders before the ruling coalition invited them to the ceremony. Orengo said NASA will also make resolutions on a planned memorial service and interdenominational prayers scheduled for next
week. Earlier today, Nairobi police commander told a press briefing that they have not been notified of any other meeting in Nairobi on Tuesday. "You must notify the station commander of where the procession will start. Nobody has notified any of the station commanders about any other function on Tuesday," he said. "If anybody does not involve police and wants to break below...that person should know we will deal firmly with such cases according to the law." The National Intelligence Service, however, has recommended that NASA leaders be arrested and charged with treason if Raila is sworn-in. More on this: Koome names red zones, talks tough on security for Uhuru swearing-in Click here for the latest political news