Serious issues will be raised before the
Supreme Court challenging the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Former
Kilome Member of Parliament Harun Mwau claims that nominations ought to have
been conducted before the repeat polls, but that was not done. The same court said that an election is not
an event but a process.  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries
Commission tried to rely on the 2013 Supreme Court ruling.  The IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said he
would rely on that ruling and this meant that the withdrawal of the National
Super Alliance leader, Raila Odinga, meant that the election shouldn’t have
proceeded.  The IEBC should have gone back to court to
seek an interpretation of what they ought to have done after Raila’s withdrawal.  The civil society groups’ argument is that
there was no nomination before the fresh presidential. The moment Chebukati
made a mistake by issuing the winner’s certificate to President Uhuru, it
opened up challenges. If they are not careful, the election will again be
nullified.  If the fresh presidential election is
nullified, more problems will be created. It is very expensive to hold such an
election. The repeat election cost us Sh12 billion. There will be a lot of
uncertainty.  There are also other indirect costs to the Exchequer
and the economy.  The President is enjoying temporary
incumbency and that is a sustained state of uncertainty and not very good in
terms of the nation’s stability. If the election is nullified, would NASA agree
to participate in a repeat election? Considering how the IEBC is currently
constituted, I don't see them reconstituting the positions and convincing NASA
to go back to the election. The Supreme Court is in a very awkward position: Do
you look at the illegalities of this election? There are so many issues that
have not been properly structured.  Actually, the law has not been properly
followed. The Jubilee side made it look like there were just clerical errors
which led to the nullification of the August 8 presidential election. The IEBC
is trying to argue that they were relying on the IEBC Act, but that cannot supersede
the Constitution.  The Constitution is supreme and clear that
elections should be held in 290 constituencies. So, if the regulations in the
IEBC Act say that you cannot have an election in certain places, then they are
violating the Constitution.  The writer is a political analyst