You’ve probably heard the saying, “If
you want to hide anything from an African, hide it in a book.” Well, not this
African. But the thought tries to explain people’s general attitude towards
reading. For many, reading beyond the school curriculum is unnecessary. School
days are over, exams are done, so why should I read? I have enjoyed the benefits of reading
and I’m an advocate for it. As an entrepreneur, reading good books should be a
practice you imbibe. It’s worth it and here’s why.   Reading
protects you from a narrow scope or worldview. What you studied at university
is probably obsolete by now as knowledge keeps increasing. Therefore, to count
on what you read five or ten years ago can be dangerous to your personal or
professional development. You need fresh knowledge frequently to be useful in
this social context. Otherwise, decisions from an outdated knowledge base means
you operate from a narrow perspective. Reading expands your scope. Reading
refines your style. It changes how you work. One way refinement occurs is
by exposure to new knowledge or thinking. How you work can be improved and this
occurs when your thoughts are challenged by people from an objective
perspective. Authors play this role through books. You begin to see how others
think – hence, you enjoy new angles to life when you read vastly.   Reading
saves your time. You can avoid some mistakes by getting knowledge early
from books. Every mistake isn’t yours to make. Dodge some bullets and cut down
on the time it takes to achieve your goals by learning how others did it
through books. You can do better if you read more.   Reading
increases your confidence. I can testify. Your confidence grows by reading
good books because the process refines your thoughts and when they are
expressed, your mind’s healthy scope shows, and people respond to it. Also, it
opens doors because it proves you’re a learner. An ignorant mind isn’t
attractive. As you sharpen your mind by books, you begin to attract people and
opportunities at the level of your intellect. Knowledge is a key to wealth. And it is
harmful not to have enough, especially now. Some people try to get by with
social media posts alone. But, you should understand that there are depths of
knowledge that articles don’t reach that books offer. Your next big business
idea or solution is probably waiting for you in the pages of a book. Now, go
ahead – read.   Email:
etoolbox@theyouideology.com