As a woman raised in rural Kiambu by a mother who worked alongside Prof Wangari Maathai, I was from a very early age made aware of the many different inequalities – between rural and urban, women and men, south and north, poor and rich – that divide societies, holding back the dignity of both the excluded and those excluding them. As children we were taught the Golden Rule, do to others as we would like to be done to us and to love our neighbours as ourselves. These principles are not lived when we tolerate a situation in which people cannot access services because of where they live. Not in situations in which people live in fear because of their gender; in which developing countries are held back by unfair trade or debt deals; in which being poor means that you will not only almost certainly die poor, but also many years younger than those born to privilege. It doesn’t have to be like this. It is possible for societies to work together so the gaps between the haves and have nots are steadily reduced. Fighting inequality is not a task for some or for ‘specialists’ – it is a task for all of us, together. To change all this will require all of us. Individual efforts are limited in making Kenya and the world have usawa (equality). Indeed, no organisation, or sector, can do so on its own. But together it is possible - collective power is needed to help bring about change. We start with learning and seeking answers by confronting the issues that create inequality. How denial of rights (education, women’s land rights, etc), gender-based violence, poor policies (globally and locally), stigma, and lack of information are fertile grounds for continuing inequality. Some things are clear – Kenya and many other countries still under-invest in public services, still ask too little of the most wealthy residents and corporations, still keep wages too low for a dignified life, and still perpetuate male dominance across institutions. In building more equal societies there is no single blueprint for every country, and there is no technical shortcut to the patient work of developing knowledge and plans together. As a member of the international Fight Inequality Alliance, I have been inspired to hear Liberians, Gambians, Tunisians, Zambians and Tanzanians, Filipinos and Brazilians and Spaniards and Americans, all exploring together how to build more equal societies – from the ground up. These discussions expose how much we have in common, and how universal the voice that tells us that none of us can be truly fully ourselves when others are pushed into lives that deny them dignity. That everyone does better when everyone does better. It is in that spirit that civil society leaders held a free public discussion yesterday at the Kenya National Theatre to connect the dots from the global to the local on how we can tackle inequality. In the midst of all the troubles in our country and the world, that meeting and this week of sparking conversations on how we can together build a more equal common future have rekindled in me hope. Not a naïve hope, but one based on experience. The experience of seeing a group of ordinary rural women in a kombi van with Prof Maathai achieve extraordinary things, and bequeath to the nation and the globe a legacy that still stands. The key lessons I learnt first-hand from Maathai, both in her teaching and in the example of her work, are that effective development is only achieved when communities drive decision-making, as they know what is best for them; and that this happens only when communities organise and build power together. I’ve seen the power of people coming together for social justice. I have seen it again this week as people connect to work out how to tackle inequality. We can fight inequality and build Usawa Kenya and a fairer world. This op-ed is part of a series for Equity Week Njoki Njehu is a director of Daughters of Mumbi Global Resources Centre, a group of grassroots Kenyan women working for land rights and gender equality; and is one of the co-founders of the international Fight Inequality Alliance uniting NGOs, social movements and trade unions to tackle inequality together.  