Construction of the Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project and rehabilitation of River Nzoia dykes are set to begin any time from tomorrow. Water and Irrigation CS Eugene Wamalwa is to sign a Sh10 billion contract with China’s Sino Hydro Corporation at Maji House, Nairobi today. The Chinese firm has been given the tender for the project.  The works are to be completed in three to four years. Governors Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) are expected to attend the contract-signing ceremony. MPs, politicians and other leaders from the three counties are also expected. Wamalwa is also to brief governors and Western leaders on the status of the Upper Nzoia Bungoma-Kakamega Multi-Purpose Bulk water project. The contractor for the Lower Nzoia project will start work immediately. “Though the contractor will go to the ground immediately, President Uhuru Kenyatta will officiate at a groundbreaking ceremony in 60 to 90 days,” the ministry said in a statement. The project will double the area under irrigation. A new scheme — Sisenye Irrigation — will be established after the project is completed. Only one scheme exists in Busia — the Bunyala Irrigation Scheme. The project is expected to create thousands of jobs, especially for the youth. It will also improve the county’s food security. The new dykes will help control perennial floods. Busia county, especially Budalang’i subcounty, frequently experiences flooding. The annual disaster occurs when swollen River Nzoia rapidly bursts its banks during downpours, submerging dykes. Lives are usually lost and property is destroyed. “There will be enough flood mitigation and control mechanisms in the area after the completion of the project,” the ministry said. Last week, the ministry also signed a Sh42 billion contract with another Chinese firm — China Gezhouba Group — to construct Thwake Multi-Purpose Dam in Kitui. The government and the African Development Bank jointly fund the project. It will end decades-old water problem in the county and promote farming.  It will take 56 months to be completed.