Patients with abdominal and pelvic problems at the
Coast will now undergo better quality laparoscopic surgeries after
about 50 doctors from the region were trained in the procedure. Laparoscopy is an operation performed in the abdomen or
pelvis through small incisions with the aid of a camera.  It can either be used to inspect and diagnose a condition or
to perform surgery. The procedure is preferred compared to the common open
surgery in the healthcare system due to smaller incisions and shorter recovery
periods. Belgian doctors from the Belgian Group for Endoscopic
Surgery trained their Mombasa counterparts at the Mombasa Hospital from Friday to
Sunday last week . The BGES is the scientific committee dedicated to
the study, teaching and promotion of laparoscopic surgery in Belgium. Led by Dr Alexis Buggenhout, the foreign doctors
partnered with Mombasa Hospital to train local surgeons on laparoscopic surgery,
which is also known as the minimally invasive surgery. “The procedure leaves negligible scars on the
body,” Buggenhout said. The procedure uses a laparoscope, a long fiber optic
cable system which allows viewing of the affected area by snaking the cable
from a more distant, but easily accessible location. Head of Surgery at the Coast General Hospital,
Ramadhan Omar, said the surgical procedure is still new in Kenya but is gaining
currency both in private and public hospitals. “As we speak, this kind of surgery is offered in
most premier private hospitals but fortunately Coast General Hospital and
Kenyatta National Hospital have also recently started the procedure,” he said. Mombasa Hospital resident surgeon Omar Hassan said
the training offered medics the Coast medics the opportunity to keep themselves
abreast of emerging advanced surgical technologies. “Patients who undergo this kind of procedure
return to work earlier than those who undergo the open surgery procedure
because laparoscopic surgery has a shorter recovery period,” Hassan said. Laparoscopic surgery is a consistent and
scientifically accepted format with the goals of improving the quality of
patient care. Ends….    