Chief Justice David Maraga has directed respondents in the presidential petition to file their responses by Sunday at 5pm. The petition was filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau names IEBC, its chairman Wafula Chebukati and president-elect Uhuru kenyatta as the respondents. The Chief Justice said in a statement on Wednesday the responses must be limited to 30 pages of at least font 12 and double spacing. Maraga said interested parties wishing to file applications related to the petition should file and serve them, alongside written submissions, by Monday at noon. The applications should be limited to five pages of at least font 12, he directed. "Responses to such applications should be filed and served together with written submissions thereon," Maraga said. The CJ gave a similar directive to those interested in being enjoined as friends of the court. They are required to file amicus briefs limited to five double-spaced pages of font 12. Read: Harun Mwau files petition challenging Uhuru's re-election Maraga gave similar orders in the petition filed by Njonjo Mue where the IEBC, Chebukati, and Uhuru are named as respondents. Mue wants the Supreme Court to declare the October 26 repeat election invalid as no presidential nominations were conducted. More on this: Njonjo Mue, Khelef Khalif file petition against Uhuru's win Maraga further directed the Institute for Democratic Governance to file and serve its written submissions on Monday at 5pm. The Institute wants the apex court to declare NASA principals to be in contempt of court for urging their supporters to boycott the repeat election. NASA leader Raila Odinga withdrew from the race and asked his supporters not to participate in a "sham'"process. The petitioner says this is contrary to an order issued by the Supreme Court for the polls to be held within 60 days. Mwau wants Uhuru's re-election invalidated saying the poll was not held in line with the provisions of the constitution. Supreme Court judges are required by law to sit and determine the petition within 14 days. Should it overturn Uhuru's win, it will be the second time in less than three months that the court has overturned the re-election of a sitting president. The court nullified the August 8 polls citing irregularities and illegalities during the transmission of election results.