AFC Leopards prodigy Vincent Oburu earned his first call up to the national team, Harambee Stars as head coach Stanley Okumbi named a 28-man provisional squad ahead of the friendly duel against Zambia on November 14 at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. Oburu found the favour courtesy of his GOtv Shield scoring magics, where he finished as the tournament’s top scorer with six goals. The Lang’ata High School alumnae joined four debutants, who were included in the provisional squad where his team-mate Whyvonne Isuzza’s long wait for the national team duty paid off as he made the cut for the first time. Other new faces in the team are Gor Mahia’s Wellingtone Ochieng, KCB’s Simon Abuko, Chemelil’s Shaffan Siwa and Western Stima’s forward Ezekiel Otuoma. According to AFC Leopards team manager Gilbert Selebwa, the quartet of players drawn from Leopards made it to the team purely on merit having worked very hard and shown a lot of determination over the season. “For Oburu, he was superb in the GOtv Shield, where he played a crucial role in delivering the trophy to our fans. As far as the technical bench is concerned, it is an honour to have some of our own players in the national team. This will motivate us in our remaining Premier League matches as it shows we are doing the right thing in nurturing talents.”  Nakuru All Stars’ midfielder Peter Ng’ang’a, Kakamega Homeboyz’s centre half Charles Momanyi, Mathare United’s defender Chris Ochieng, AFC Leopards stopper Gabriel Andika, Tukser’s creative midfielder Jackson Macharia and Ulinzi Stars duo of Samuel Onyango and Omar Mbongi returned to the team after missing out in October’s Asian tour. The squad is expected to use the friendly as a yardstick to gauge their preparedness for the upcoming Cecafa Senior Challenge slated for the end of the month. Squad: Goalkeepers: Boniface Oluoch (Gor Mahia), Gabriel Andika (AFC Leopards), Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers); Defenders: Bernard Ochieng (Vihiga United), Wellingtone Ochieng (Gor Mahia), Dennis Sikhayi (AFC Leopards), Jockins Atudo (Posta Rangers), Harun Shakava (Gor Mahia), Musa Mohammed (Gor Mahia), Charles Momanyi (Kakamega Homeboyz), Omar Mbongi (Ulinzi Stars); Midfielders: Ernest Wendo (Gor Mahia), Shaffan Siwa (Chemelil Sugar), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia ), Patillah Omotto (Kariobangi Sharks), Peter Ng’ang’a (Nakuru All-Stars), Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Chris Ochieng (Mathare United), Jackson Macharia (Tusker FC), Whyvonne Isuzza (AFC Leopards); Strikers:Samuel Onyango (Ulinzi Stars), Kepha Aswani (Nakumatt), George Odhiambo (Gor Mahia), Masoud Juma (Kariobangi Sharks), Vincent Oburu (AFC Leopards) Chris Masinza (Vihiga United), Simon Abuko (KCB) and Ezekiel Otuoma (Western Stima).