NASA will use the People’s Assembly as a rescue mechanism against misuse of delegated powers to independent institutions, co-principal Musalia Mudavadi has said. Mudavadi said the Executive, Parliament and Judiciary have sabotaged, failed and betrayed the people’s wishes and needs, leading to an erosion and miscarriage of democratic institutions. He said the people will seek to install what is missing in the three arms of government through the assemblies. “If these organs have failed to advise the people as envisaged in the Constitution, the people have a right to give them direction. It is that simple,” Mudavadi said. He was speaking during a radio interview on Saturday. He denied that NASA had tuned into a resistance movement. “Those are mischievous misconceptions propagated by Jubilee. They deliberately want to discredit a legal and constitutional approach to change,” Mudavadi said. He said NASA has only created an administrative organ to advance resistance against a repressive and despotic regime. “Jubilee fears the idea of a people’s assembly because it has been embraced even in their strongholds,” Mudavadi said.  He said the resistance posed a big threat to the economy and the political status quo.  “People have said that we will not succeed in our mission because Kenyans are already used to the pains of economic meltdown. But I can tell you that that is why we are exactly targeting the upper stratum of the oligarchs enjoying corrupt prosperity,” he said. “We will make them feel as uncomfortable as the rest of Kenyans. They must feel the pain,” Mudavadi added.  He said they will not go to court to challenge President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory in last month’s repeat presidential election. He said NASA is keen on taking the conversation away from television to the people themselves. “We are aware of Jubilee’s repressive agenda to counter our moves and will not fall into their traps and dirty tricks. We want them to realize that we owe it to Kenyans to restore confidence in the vote otherwise the alternative is incredibly nasty,” Mudavadi said. He said NASA will rely on its NRM wing for its resistance movement ,which will start from the county level. 