The late Wahome Gakuru's sons eulogized their father as an outstanding family man who was their family icon during his burial ceremony in Nyeri. Wangai, Mugambi Mwenda and Maina Kimathi paid tribute to the late Governor and thanked him for spending time with them. Mugambi also sang a song with students from Alliance High School where he is sitting for his KCSE examinations this month. "Thank you guys for praying for me as I did my exams and I thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for asking Kenyans to stand with me. I stand here today because my father has imparted may good things in my life and I now have God as my father, goodbye daddy," he said. Their tributes brought many to tears including former President Mwai Kibaki and DP William Ruto's wife Rachel. Gakuru was last seen when he hosted his son and the classmates at his Runda residence in Runda shortly before the national exams began. His wife Catherine said she met Gakuru in September 1991 at the University of Nairobi, Kabete Campus and they had been married for 21 years. She asked the media to be sensitive when reporting deaths to avoid inflicting pain on those directly affected. "I call on the media to crosscheck some basics. Before uttering words, ask yourself is it true, is it kind and is it necessary? Because some things are just hurtful to those who feel the weight," she said. She further called on Nyeri residents and leaders to ensure his vision does not die with him after the burial. "He had confidence in you, and his vision will not go in vain and to the people of Nyeri, your dreams will not go to the grave. The hard part is done now the easy part is for us," Catherine said. "This is the season of a plentiful harvest and i  will bring up these young men in the way you would have wanted," she added. Gakuru died on November 2 after he was involved in a grisly road accident along the Muranga-Thika highway. Read: Wahome Gakuru's body arrives in Nyeri, burial ceremony underway Also read: Wahome Gakuru's car 'was faulty', Governor Mutahi Kahiga claims