After a deserved rest day in South Coast, the Kenya Airways East African Safari Classic Rally cars cross over into Tanzania today for the event’s longest stage. US-based Kenyan driver Tim Mammen has warned that —the 155.73km longest section, running from Manguzoni to Horo Horo—is not for the faint-hearted. “Tomorrow (today) we are headed to Tanzania and the only challenge we have is that there is a very long stage there which will require extra mental and physical stamina. But I think we are in great shape as we haven’t broken anything really. ” Event leader Baldev Chager predicted a tough challenge in Tanzania, saying: “We have had our share of problems on Day One and Day Two, where we lost a lot of time and if it wasn’t for that, we would have been in a good position right from the opening day. I have never done such a long stage, so I have absolutely no idea what to expect,” said Chager. “ “The biggest challenge in the Classic is that you only find out things when you get there. The lucky bit for us is that our competitors have also been having problems and so it has become a cat and mouse game but we just have to put in consistent speed hoping that nothing unexpected happens.” He has a minor lead of nearly two minutes with twelve stages and four more days of the competition remaining. Today, cars will tackle three more stages after crossing over to Tanzania through Lunga Lunga border before returning to Neptune Beach Resort in South Coast for the overnight stop. Meanwhile, drivers have spoken of a very tough first half of the competition which ended on Sunday. Carl Tundo, who led the event briefly before mechanical problems relegated the Top Fry-sponsored Triumph TR7 driver to the third overall place, is hoping to overhaul the eight minute lead to try and win his first-ever Classic Rally crown in its eighth edition since it was first run in 2005. Tundo, the Nakuru-based wheat farmer said he was optimistic of overhauling a eight minute difference between him and Chager considering the event is still long with lots of stages.  “Stages are good apart from the last one which was a joke. We plan is to keep the car together with no more mechanical issues. We are ready to bounce back to the first position,’’ said Tundo.