EU election observers have said the repeat presidential election was conducted better than the August 8 general election. In a statement on Wednesday, the European Election Observer Mission lauded the media for their coverage despite security challenges and limited capacity. "Based on the lessons learned in the August 8 election, media representatives demonstrated commitment to providing live autonomous reporting of tallying," EOM said. The observers said IEBC did well under the difficult circumstances, citing transparency in tallying and standardisation of results forms. "In 17 out of the 19 constituencies observed by the EUEOM, the tallying process was positively assessed as being orderly and transparent," the statement reads. The mission noted improvement in electronic transmission and online publication of results, but said in some polling stations results transmission failed. But it said IEBC officials faced challenges including physical harassment notably a returning officer in Kandara, Murang'a county. More on this: Kandara IEBC officials charged after scuffle with MP Alice Wahome "The IEBC failed to hold effective consultation with the parties to assist with the challenges it was confronted with," EOM said. The mission has asked politicians to give courts and the IEBC an opportunity to work independently. It has asked the IEBC to publish information of voters who were identified biometrically as well as by the manual complementary system for public scrutiny. Read: KIEMS kits identified 7.5m voters, OT Morpho tells IEBC Low voter turnout marked the repeat election, while in four counties, elections could not be conducted as residents blocked the process through demonstrations. The October poll had a 38 per cent turnout compared with almost 80 per cent turnout in August. President Uhuru Kenyatta won the election with 98 per cent after Opposition leader Raila Odinga pulled out saying the IEBC is yet to meet its reform demands. Raila has disputed the voter turnout of about 7 million saying only half the number turned up to vote. Election Observer Group said on Wednesday that the absence of observers and party agents may have compromised the repeat election.