Scotland could be invited to a ‘World Cup of losers’ being proposed by the USA for countries who failed to qualify for next year’s finals. The concept of a bizarre alternative to Russia 2018 has gained some momentum in the States after former champions Italy were knocked out by Sweden earlier this week. The list of nations missing from next summer’s tournament includes the Americans, Holland, Chile, Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Ghana as well as the Scots, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Now US Soccer chiefs have confirmed they are exploring the possibility of an eight-team event for the also-rans, to take place in the period before the World Cup starts on June 14 next year. Scotland, who are still seeking a replacement for Gordon Strachan after his failure to lead them to the finals, currently have no games scheduled for next year. They have been approached to play in Morocco in March, with the Moroccans also trying to persuade Argentina to play in a three-team mini-league. The Scots begin Nations League qualifiers next September and their new manager will be looking for friendlies to play before then. It remains to be seen, however, if they would even be deemed worthy of an invite if the American plan ever comes to fruition. Michael Lewis, who has been writing about football in the USA for almost 40 years, is cynical about US Soccer’s reasons for touting such a tournament. Their football federation will be desperate to make up the £10million they have missed out on from FIFA for qualifying. And American media outlets also need to recoup their money after spending millions on the TV rights for a World Cup which will have no US involvement. “This seems like a money-making idea,” he told BBC Sport. “They would think about it as a positive revenue stream. I’m pretty sure the Italy players would rather go on holiday.” “I would also expect teams to field inexperienced players - that certainly would not help with the development of the US national team.” The USA missed out on the World Cup after losing 2-1 at Trinidad and Tobago last month.  