President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing-in will cost Sh300 million, Joseph Kinuyua has said, noting no amount will be wasted. The head of public service and State House chief of staff defended the amount saying it was all budgeted for. "Sh300 million is enough for this event. We are not wasting funds," he said at Kasarani stadium, where the function will take place, on Friday. Related: Israeli PM Netanyahu to attend Uhuru's inauguration But Kenyans on social media noted the amount could have been put to better use. Twitter user Sekou Toure said: "Unashamedly, Kinyua says Uhuru's coronation will cost Sh300 million, [which is] = $3,000,000.... That's a rip-off [sic]." A user identified as Nyong said: "This man Joseph Kinyua must be smoking something. Does he have any idea how hard it is to raise Sh300 million in taxes in these tough times?" Kinyua also spoke on Britain's travel advice which he said was "ill-advised". "They have freedom to let their citizens know about any security concern but their statement was ill-advised," he said. "Our security teams have done everything possible to ensure peace on that day." UK says no warning issued But in a statement on Friday, head of communication for Kenya and SomaliaAlice Simpson, noted no new travel advisories or warnings have been issued for Kenya. Simpson said they gave a factual update on the swearing-in as there may be significant disruption to nearby roads. "This was the only change to our travel advice. Some media outlets have incorrectly reported that this is a new ‘travel warning’ or ‘travel advisory’ against Kenya. It is not," she said. "Yesterday’s update is an example of the regular factual updates we make to our travel advice, to inform British nationals living or travelling in a particular country of unfolding events (in terms of health, local laws and customs, entry requirements, security, political developments etc)." The official noted a travel advisory is formal advice against all or all but essential travel to a particular place and that is issued under specific circumstances. 'Factual updates are made on a regular basis and do not advise against travel to a given area," Simpson said. NASA's parallel rally Kinyua also addressed the National Super Alliance, and asked its leaders to shelve plans for a parallel rally during which they have threatened to swear-in opposition chief Raila Odinga. "Any other function will be like Kinyua having his tea somewhere." He added the government will issue a statement on roads that will be affected to prevent inconveniences.  Also read: MPs to ride buses to Uhuru's swearing-in at Kasarani Click here for the latest political news