Police have denied allegations that an officer killed a child in Pipeline estate on Tuesday as they blocked NASA's Jacaranda grounds meeting.  Police were sent to the venue early that day but chaos broke out as Opposition leader Raila Odinga told the people of his plan - to get sworn-in on December 12. He made the announcement shortly after President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's took their oaths of office at Kasarani stadium. More on this: [VIDEO] I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Also read: Uhuru finally sworn-in as Kenya's President Nairobi commander Japheth Koome said seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda may have been shot dead by criminals. "Contrary to media reports, there is no police camp in Embakasi area known as Tassia AP Camp. Besides, there were no active police operations in Kware area yesterday, " Koome said in a statement on Wednesday. He added that though police dealt with rioters in Jacaranda and its environs - Donholm, about 5 kilometres away, in particular - an officer could not have killed the child.   NASA protesters run from anti-riot police officers who kept them off Jacaranda grounds in Embakasi, November 28,2017. /ENOS TECHE The boy had been playing with his friends in the balcony of his parent's house when a stray bullet hit him. Several such cases have been reported during election protests since the original exercise on August 8. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has followed up. Police often deny using live bullets but rights groups' reports contradict theirs. Details: IPOA probes boy's death, KOT slam police for beating women in NASA demos The child's father Peter Mutuku said that he was shocked to see his son's body in a pool of blood. "I had told him not to go outside but play inside the flat. I still do not understand how he was shot yet he was not demonstrating," Mutuku told The Star on Tuesday.  While congratulating Uhuru, the US asked Kenyan security forces to "refrain from use of unnecessary force against citizens exercising their democratic rights". Read more: US congratulates Uhuru, hails Kenya for ending election process Click here for more political news