Embakasi East politician Francis Mureithi has told the High Court that MP Babu Owino instigated violence which disenfranchised his supporters during the August 8 election. In a testimony following his petition against Owino's win, Mureithi told Justice Joseph Sergon that his supporters did not turn up to vote for fear of their life. He said the complacency of security agencies worsened the situation and saw most his backers denied their constitutional right to vote. Mureithi, who garnered 39,805 votes against Owino's 43,862, claimed the legislator's supporters attacked Joseph Obiende of Amani National Congress at Lower Savannah Soweto Social hall. He told the court on Monday that the ANC politician was sent into a coma and was admitted to the ICU. Read: Babu Owino causes scene after Embakasi MP certificate goes missing Also read: Babu Owino to face fresh charges of assault, electoral offense The Jubilee Party aspirant claimed that Owino committed an election offence by declaring himself winner before votes were tallied. "Babu obviously committed an election offence by declaring himself the winner. He intimidated the returning officer through death threats." "Mimi nimeshinda Mureithi na lazima nitangazwe mshindi ama nitaua mtu hapa  (I have defeated Mureithi and must be declared winner or else I will kill someone)," Mureithi said. In his petition, the politician pointed that forms 35A were not signed by IEBC officials. He also gave the example of Utawala Academy where the number of valid votes cast exceeded the number of registered voters. Babu - real name Paul Ogili - has also been accused of conniving with police officers to compromise the election process. While being cross-examined, Mureithi also accused Owino of bribing voters and disrupting voting at various polling stations. "Babu was caught on camera bribing voters at Greenspan polling station. The video is in court as evidence," he said. Mureithi further accused the electoral agency of replacing poll officials on the voting day. He avers that the election results announced by the commission are neither a true reflection of the will of the people of Embakasi East nor transparent or accurate. The politician wants the entire election nullified and the IEBC ordered to conduct fresh elections. Click here for the latest political news  