Education CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday ordered public universities to stop hiring staff on permanent basis and instead put them on contracts with effect January 2018. The order will affect both academic and administrative staff. Matiang’i also ordered an audit of universities’ workforce. Employees who formerly worked for constituent colleges are targeted in the clean-up. Matiang’i said most were products of political influence. He said the colleges had turned into employment hubs where politicians influenced the hiring process. Speaking during the review of the growth and development of public universities at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies in Nairobi, Matiang’i also ordered a halt in the opening of satellite campuses. “The growth of the universities is not in line with the public resource muscle the institutions can manage. We need to re-look and analyse before opening more campuses,” Matiang’i said. The ministry had raised concerns over lack of money in most public universities. The institutions cited a drastic drop in enrollment of students in parallel degree programmes for the financial gaps. Matiang’i challenged the universities to venture into profit-making activities to generate revenue.  The universities currently get government funding based on student enrollment numbers and the courses they take. The government has also proposed that the current universities be turned into specialised institutions of higher learning. “Many universities operating in the country are offering same courses and it would be a better idea if we focus in certain majors that would put our institutions in the world map once again,” Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua said. According to Kinyua, specialisation of both private and public universities will make learning better. He encouraged the universities to use facilities within the institutions to generate revenue. He cited hotels, hostels, private public partnerships as among ventures that can be used to generate income. Kinyua decried the ‘poor qualification’ of academic staff in the universities.  He said there are few PhD holders in the country. “You know there is a problem when you walk into a university and find a masters graduate invigilating PhD students,” Kinyua said.  He also questioned the role of unions in university operations. He said some unions have overstepped their mandate.