Most Nakuru residents travel for more than five kilometres to access health services, a new report says. Respiratory diseases have been reported to be on the rise in Nakuru County especially among the children. According to the report of the County task force headed by prof. James Tuitoek, the former Egerton Vice Chancellor, it indicates that the region has recorded 71 percent of respiratory diseases followed by Malaria with 70 per cent, Pneumonia 9 per cent), Diarrhoea 8 percent and Typhoid Fever 7 per cent. The report added that the HIV prevalence rate in the county is estimated at 4.7per cent and has greatly contributed to the increase of tuberculosis cases.  He added that conducive environment, lack of vaccination are among the issues attributed to increase of the residents.  “A lot of emphasis should be laid on health education, training of community health workers and partnership between the government and other service providers in provision of preventive services,” recommended the Chairman. “The move will be aimed at contributing to the realization of key targets under the Millennium Development Initiative and curb the prevalence of stunting and wasting in children under 5 years,” the Professor said.  He however said that generally, the County does not experience chronic malnutrition. He added that although there are no serious nutritional health concerns, the county health strategies should aim at promoting sustainable community-based activities in the areas of agriculture, nutrition, and health, with the ultimate aim of minimizing malnutrition among children aged 5 years and below.  The report indicated that in the county, vaccination is geographically accessible to the majority of children. However, in some areas, immunization coverage declines with increasing distance from the vaccination clinics.  The regional immunization coverage for children between 12 and 23 Months stands at 85 per cent (KNBS, 2008/2009, KDHS) hence a significant proportion of the children under five years do not get the required dosage of immunization.  The report indicated that there is a low access to health services in the County due to longer distance covered to access to the nearest to health facilities.  A large proportion of the population about 66.3 per cent, travel for more than 5 kilometres to access the nearest health facility hence some patients face insurmountable challenges in accessing health facilities due to poverty and impassable roads. As of 2013, the majority of the health facilities lacked adequate infrastructures, drugs and trained personnel to attend to some of the chronic illnesses .  “There is need to address poverty, inadequate medical facilities, high cost of medical services,” indicated the report.  Doctor Samuel Oroko, the Chairman of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union (KMPDU) said that chronic respiratory diseases mainly affect people from the childhood level.  “The are a group of chronic diseases affecting the airways and the other structures of the lungs due to environment like exposure to dust, cold among other causes,” said Oroko.  He added that most of the children affected are below five years due to their low immunity level, ingestion of contaminated food among other issues.  In fact, the World Health Organization estimates that by 2030, the death toll from chronic diseases will equal that of infectious diseases, maternal and newborn death, and malnutrition combined.   He also urged the County to have more emphasis on reducing child mortality, promoting maternalhealth as well as mitigating the vulnerability of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases.   DATA  Chronic disease epidemics take decades to become fully established. Chronic diseases often begin in childhood. Because of their slow evolution and chronic nature, chronic diseases present opportunities for prevention. Many different chronic diseases may occur in the same patient (e.g. chronic respiratory diseases, cardiovascular disease and cancer). The treatment of chronic diseases demands a long-term and systematic approach. Care for patients with chronic diseases should be an integral part of the activities of health services, alongside care for patients with acute and infectious diseases.