Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar did not attend the Friday Iftar dinner attended by NASA bigwigs because it was &ldquo;personalised&rdquo;.The office of the Wiper secretary general has accused Governor Hassan Joho of &ldquo;hijacking&rdquo; the event that was supposed to be a NASA affair and instead, made it an ODM meeting.Omar, Joho and other NASA members in Mombasa were expected to take charge of the function.Each was to contribute to the dinner. Reports show Omar contributed about Sh500,000. It is not clear how much money Joho gave out. Omar and Joho were to control the event, invite an equal number of guests, dictate terms and conditions and decide who dines at the VIP and VVIP tables.But misunderstanding, power tussles and fight to steal the show allegedly led to the last minute fall out, prompting Omar to pull out. &ldquo;Besides the push and pull, what irritated Omar most was the wording of the invitation card,&rdquo; an insider told the Star.He said because the card portrayed that Joho had organised the Iftar, and not NASA and Omar, the senator said &ldquo;he will not even face the Serani direction,&rdquo; despite contributing heavily.&ldquo;His Excellency Governor Hassan Ali Joho cordially invites... to the annual governor&rsquo;s Iftar...,&rdquo; the card reads.Instead, the senator headed to Likoni and broke the fast with the residents. Omar was reportedly offered five extra invitation cards. &ldquo;He felt it was an insult to be accorded a few more cards for an event that he was supposed to get an equal number of cards as Joho,&rdquo; the informer said.It is not yet known how many invites Joho sent but about 2,500 diners packed the venue of the Iftar dinner at Serani School grounds, Mombasa.The Star has been informed that instead of an Iftar dinner, the opposition had planned to hold a political rally at Tononoka Grounds the same day.But because Mombasa is crammed by Muslims who currently are observing the holy month of Ramadhan, where they fast and pray, the plan was shelved. This would have been a culmination of a two-day vigorous campaign at the Coast.On Thursday the NASA team divided itself into two. The first team lead by Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula camped in Garsen, Witu and Lamu.The second team led by presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka was in Kaloleni, Rabai and Mariakani. On Friday, Team One traversed Mwatate, Wundanyi and Voi, while Team Two headed to Taveta and Voi. The two teams later converged at the Iftar dinner at Serani.