NASA presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga has dismissed allegations that his campaigns are funded by Anglo Leasing proceeds.Raila said it is ironic for Jubilee regime to link him to the scandal and asked that state machinery be used to arrest those involved.The ODM leader said it is the Jubilee administration that has "completely failed in the war against corruption.""Those mentioned in Anglo Leasing are in court. If Jubilee knows anyone mentioned in the case who is free, why don't they arrest the person?" he posed."It is they&nbsp;who are dancing with corruption. They have [accepted]&nbsp; it as part of their lives. Why have they set the corrupt free when they have all the state machinery?" On Wednesday,&nbsp; Deputy President William Ruto and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said Raila's NASA coalition is being funded by corruption cartels.The two, who spoke separately, said the cartels are among perpetrators of the scandal which was unearthed in 2003.Ruto claimed the Opposition team's campaign choppers and secretariat are financed by proceeds of the scandal.&nbsp;He said NASA coalition has no moral right to accuse Jubilee of corruption. The current administration has been linked by the Opposition to scandals including NYS (Sh1.8 billion) and Eurobond (Sh250 billion).Read: Ruto says corruption cartels financing NASA as Uhuru trashes manifestoAlso read: NASA funded by Anglo Leasing money, Raila and brigade most corrupt - MurkomenThe Opposition leader said Jubilee's allegations against him demonstrated selfishness and hypocrisy of the highest order. He maintained that if he forms the next government after August 8, his administration will not tolerate any form of corruption.Raila has teamed up with Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani), Isaac Rutto (CCM), and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford K).They launched their manifesto on Tuesday, just a day after Jubilee Party launched its own.The NASA chief scoffed at the Jubilee manifesto saying the document NASA presented was way above what President Uhuru Kenyatta's team came up with."Ours is a simple document with achievable promises. That is why Jubilee has been wasting time criticising it instead of focusing on their campaigns."Read: NASA reacts to Jubilee manifesto, says UhuRuto offers nothing newAlso read: Jubilee manifesto surpasses NASA's dreams, Uhuru says in Tharaka NithiRaila said Uhuru's should focus on selling the manifesto to Kenyans and let the people decide between UhuRuto and Raila-Kalonzo."They are scared. That is why they want to remain in power so that corruption and extra-judicial killings can continue," he said.The Opposition leader further said it is unfortunate that under Uhuru's administration, many young people have been rendered jobless while the cost of living remains high.ODM leaders who spoke during NASA campaigns in Kisumu also tore into the UhuRuto team following the claims of graft.Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the DP cannot lecture Kenyans on matters corruption and morality."Don't throw stones if you live in a glass house. Ruto should be the last person to talk about corruption," he said."He cannot dictate how elections should be conducted. Let he and Uhuru prepare to go home on August 8."Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga said Jubilee politicians are the ones using NYS, Eurobond and SGR funds to run campaigns."Theirs is like a thief sounding the alarm after being caught in the act. They can't scare us,."