A renowned political strategist is said to have bolted out of ODM, citing frustration and unnecessary infighting among different camps that are all claiming to be strategising for NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga (pictured) to win the August election. A source at Orange House whispers to Corridors that the academician was unhappy with the several centres of power which are all competing for ownership of the Raila campaign. The man was overheard on Friday last week narrating to a group of friends outside Java restaurant on the ground floor of Reinsurance Plaza, Nairobi, what he went through during his brief stay in ODM.***** A cowboy contractor from Kiambu county is claiming to have been paid a staggering Sh20 million for the construction of a ghost road in Nairobi. The contractor, who is linked to a top official at City Hall, presented fake invoices for allegedly constructing a road within Kasarani constituency, but after inspectors went on site they established that nothing had happened on the key link road. However, the senior County Hall official has been insisting that the contractor must be paid the money, his eyes fixed on his kickback. The inspectors are now said to be compiling a report to be forwarded to Governor Evans Kidero to take action on the senior official.***** An ODM legislator who is closely linked to an opposition bigwig has been on cloud nine after he received hundreds of millions of shillings in a &ldquo;jackpot&rdquo;. The man, a well-known businessman in every other sector, including the media, supplied and received payments for the supply of bitumen to the government of South Sudan. While the man has become the subject of instant envy to his friends, he has nevertheless angered some of his fellow politicians, who say he has been bragging unnecessarily. The MP has been spending time in his constituency, where he is gathering notoriety for spending sprees to ensure he wins the August election..***** The political rally that was held last weekend in the Sosiot playground, Kericho county, by Jubilee nominees is said not to have gone down well with some independent candidates from the region and a section of senior government officials who felt they were left out of planning. One of the top officials is said to be very unhappy as he thinks the rally, which was attended by politicians from both the North and South Rift, was meant to cut him down to size.***** THE activities of an anti-corruption sleuth in the Nyanza region have left residents a worried people. Reason? Corridors has been told the randy investigator has resorted to luring women in government offices with goodies, including sex and cash, to gather corruption evidence.