In his inaugural address in 1961, John F Kennedy spoke his famous words, &ldquo;Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.&rdquo;This election season, we have heard what country has done for us and will do for us. This includes redistributive justice under NASA&rsquo;s leadership.NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga, told the world through the June 12 edition of the London newspaper the Times, that he will &ldquo;dismantle white-owned ranches in the restive Laikipia region&rdquo; should he win the August 8 election. The Times further quoted him as saying, &ldquo;These ranches are too big and the people don&rsquo;t even live there, they live in Europe and only come once in a while.&rdquo; He went on to say, &ldquo;There is need for rationalisation to ensure that there&rsquo;s more productive use of that land.&rdquo;Let us explore what &lsquo;rationalisation&rsquo; in this context entails. I submit to you that it is redistributive justice. Raila has issued a political fiat that he intends to actualise if elected. What he is telling us is that he will enforce expropriation of private property. This is the forcible removal of wealth from its owners by government for the benefit of others, whom the government determines are in need. This is in contrast to distributive justice, where the government distributes an income or asset that it owns, eg oil reserves, through the lens of justice.Now permit me to tell you why redistributive justice is a very bad idea under the rules of acquisition of property or wealth. I will start by telling you how a country evolves as the custodian of political power, with the right to make laws for the protection and regulation of property.This progression begins with a condition known as the State of Nature. This is the natural condition of mankind that exists in the absence of government and laws. In this state, whenever a conflict ensues, we become judge, prosecutor and hangman. Life in this form is short, nasty and brutish (Hobbes). It leads to the loss of life and insecurity of property. This state creates a perpetual condition of war necessitated by the natural right for one to protect himself. Conflict becomes ubiquitous because people choose to invade others for fear of being predated upon first.In order to abate this fear, man chooses to covenant with one another by ceding part of his &lsquo;right to all things&rsquo; and submitting to a central sovereign authority. A tacit exchange of expectations happens. The sovereign authority offers protection from aggressors in return for the subject&rsquo;s consent to obedience. The binding instrument is called a social contract. And this is how the state is born. For the same state to turn around and say it will expropriate your property would be akin to breach of contract. Subsequently, political obligation by the subject stops when protection by the state ceases.Globally, every sovereign nation inherently has the power to secure the health, safety, security and economic well-being of its citizens and residents. It is also indisputable that economic development, property rights and a credible judicial system are inseparable. Protection of these rights gives property owners the exclusive right to determine how best they will utilise their resources. This results in economic development that percolates up from the inside.This inside percolation has been evidenced through the Laikipia Farmers&rsquo; Association. It is estimated that the LFA employs about 4,500 people, who collectively earn a salary of Sh1.14 billion per annum. LFA also generates approximately Sh560 million revenue to the government through taxes. They have also invested Sh218 million towards special health and education community projects (The Standard, June 14 ). Without a doubt, this level of economic development could not have happened if the owners of these properties did not have the confidence that property rights will be upheld.Where people do not own proper titles to their property, they cannot secure credit to further invest; and hence have no incentive to improve their &lsquo;property&rsquo;. This results in economic decline because economic growth cannot be realised without capital, and the latter cannot be acquired without formal ownership guaranteed by protection of property rights. It is apparent that the deeper determinant of the hostility and the subsequent political fiat on the White-owned Laikipia ranches is not in the inequality of the size of land, but the perceived unfairness of it. The good book tells us of a landowner who contracted laborers at various times of the day but paid all of them the same wage. Those that started work earlier were discontented by this equality despite voluntarily covenanting with the landowner on an agreed wage. Does it, therefore, follow that if there were equal distribution among the ranchers and the herders, the conflicts would immediately cease? And most importantly, would the current economic development grow, stagnate or decline? We do not need to undertake a predictive analysis to get these answers. All we need to do is visit Zimbabwe. The Zimbabwean government seized property from White farmers and gave it to the Blacks as recompense for the abuses of colonial rule. Resultantly, agricultural output stalled. One Black beneficiary said, &ldquo;The problem now is that we have the land, but the Whites have the experience.&rdquo; (The Guardian, Sept 25, 2015 ).I submit to you that distributive justice is Robin Hood Economics. It is robbing Peter to pay Paul. Naturally, Peter&rsquo;s productivity declines because he no longer has the incentive to work hard only for his yield to be forcibly appropriated to Paul. Ultimately, this retards development.The choice to leave one&rsquo;s property idle or to employ it as a resource is the sole prerogative of its owner. No one should have the power to decide how to dole it out.