It&rsquo;s 45 days to elections en a week before we check into the coldest month of the year, #MissJulie aka July... &ldquo;WagengeHao&rdquo; were on point when they named July after a woman... It&rsquo;s common knowledge that warembo wa 254 are as cold as a cold coke!!!As we brace for the official Kenyan winter, #TheRaverend would like to speak to all our Kenyan girls, aka socialites, better known as &ldquo;Instagram call girls&rdquo;...#TheRaverend appreciates and respects everyone&rsquo;s hustle, but when the hustlers are being taken for a ride, it&rsquo;s only fair that the secretary general of TeamMafisi calls the sponsors&rsquo; BS!!! So for all our IG call girls, it&rsquo;s time you start asking or be paid your worth...The random trips to Dubai x South Africa x Nigeria that you keep on posting on your social media, thinking you have made it, is a big joke!!!UP THEIR GAMEThe sponsors, aka The blessers, are not paying you your worth... That&rsquo;s the cheapest vacation the sponsors/blessers can offer to land their &ldquo;Loboko&rdquo; in ur &ldquo;Migingo airport&rdquo;... My dear Kenyan IG call girls, when that Rich sbonza slides in your DM and decides he wants to fly you to some exotic location, make them sweat, en the only way to do that is not by accepting a five/six-hour flight to the Middle East or down south...The blesser better be ready to fly you across the Atlantic to a different time zone... The destination should involve a connecting flight plus dinner and breakfast in cloud 9!!! Anything less than that is tricks... Any Yahooboy/Ben10 can take a girl to Dubai, so unless it&rsquo;s your hardworking, Subaru-driving, loans-on-wheels Ninja taking you for that five-hour vacation to DXB or SA after saving all his life, *Do Not Accept*It&rsquo;s time the sbonzas/blessers up their game, we start seeing our IG call girls taking pictures in Paris, Zurich, London, Miami, etc. So my dear sisters who are in that line of work, know your worth!!!DEEJAYING PAYSEnough with #TheRaverends rants. Moving on swiftly, Sunday I was jiwakaing at Jiweke, off Ngong Road, before I landed at Tamasha Hurlingham for the best Sunday plan ever, dubbed &lsquo;Sunday Cruise&rsquo; with DJ Nijo...Monday prayers were conducted at 1824 with doughty family reggae nigh,t the best way to &lsquo;chomoa&rsquo; lock after crazy Monday blues.... Tuesday I had Hennessy meeting at Space Lounge with DJ Creme and the Space Lounge CEO, who were rewarding Creme aka the top chef, with a fully loaded Mercedes Benz for supporting the club for the past two years... Who said being a DJ is not a profession that can pay bills?From Space Lounge sundowner, I passed my house straight to K1 Klub House... WhenIsTheDay, also known as Wednesday, I was taken out by some females for a cocktail run at NewsCafe at Sarit Centre in Westlands, before I landed at Galilleo for countryfied with Sir Elvis and DJ Protege...FRENEMIESThursday night I drove to Garden City for a movie, then I made a mistake to chill out at ArtCaffe with pals en drinks started flowing. The long and short of it, I never watched no movie.... From Garden City, I ended up at Natives bar. I&rsquo;m seriously evaluating the type of friends I keep...Last night was the usual madness. I was at Mercury Lounge ABC, where everything was polite as I enjoyed my dinner with some expensive cognac...How I ended up at B-Club until Saturday 6am is a movie that I didn&rsquo;t remember to sign up for... All I can say is the night was a Vibe!!! Tonight, I have PatoRanking&rsquo;s club appearance at Kiza Lounge, plus the Kenya vs Uganda rugby afterparty at Space Lounge.So catch me if you can because Hennessy is on #TheRaverend as we celebrate the long weekend...Raverends Recommends*Must Do!!! #TheVibeSo with all the Unga Vibe, Nurses Vibe, en Political Vibe poppin!!! We had a dude in NaiVegas who walked into a a cop station and demanded the police arrest him and take him straight to jail without passing Go or collecting 200 bob like in Monopoly!!! The 35-year-old, whose hustle is a kinyozi, decided the cost of living is not a vibe and was willing to relocate to remand, where he's assured of three meals a day and a place to sleep!!! Sadly the police refused to arrest the dude, even after he produced two sticks of weed and lit one up in front of the cops... The cops decided the man needed prayers instead of Jail #WhatAVibe!!!*What's Vibing in the Box Office Cars3!!! The legendary Lightning McQueen is back in the Pixar animation movie... It's a must-watch for the whole family this weekend... For the real OG's, #TheRaverend is vibing on All eyes on me, the true en untold story of the real OG, the legendary Tupac... WestSide Until I Die isssa Vibe... For the Kenyans who haven't watched the DC comic film, "Wonder Woman" is still the Vibe.. Three weeks since the premier, Wonder Woman has left many critics wondering wether she uses a tampon or sanitary pad as she kicks ass to protect Earth!!!*What's Vibing in Music#TheRaverend is Vibing to DJ Khaled's new song, Wild Thoughts, which features Rihanna and Bryson Tiller on vocals. The song is a sample of Carlos Santana's old summer hit "Maria Maria" en will be featured on Khaled's upcoming 10th album, Grateful, dropping this weekend!!! Also on #TheRaverend's playlist is Feels by Calvin Harris, featuring Pharrell Williams x Katy Perry x Big Sean. When I vibe to the song, I think of the days of F2 ( Florida2000) discotheque Vibe... Another big song that's a month old but is a vibe is Roho Hasara by Darassa #IssaVibe#TheRaverend'sVibe Do you support the chicks of Kayole, aka Warembo wa Gaza, who gang up and beat deadbeat boyfriends who don't pay child support!!! Continue the conversation @kiss100kenya x @shaffieweru on Twitter or Facebook!!!