National boys under-16 boys and girls&rsquo; football champions St. Anthony of Kitale and Wiyeta from Trans Nzoia are confident of retaining their titles as the national secondary school Term &lsquo;2A&rsquo; games kicks off tomorrow at Shimo La Tewa in Mombasa. The Saints&rsquo; beat Wahundura High 1-0 last year in the finals held at Kangaru while Wiyeta defeated Abwao 4-0 in the girls&rsquo; final. The two teams maintained their unbeaten run during the Rift Valley Secondary School Sports Association (RVSSSA) Term 2A Games that saw them qualify for the nationals.National boys under-16 boys and girls&rsquo; football champions St. Anthony of Kitale and Wiyeta from Trans Nzoia are confident of retaining their titles as the national secondary school Term &lsquo;2A&rsquo; games kicks off tomorrow at Shimo La Tewa in Mombasa.The Saints&rsquo; beat Wahundura High 1-0 last year in the finals held at Kangaru while Wiyeta defeated Abwao 4-0 in the girls&rsquo; final.The two teams maintained their unbeaten run during the Rift Valley Secondary School Sports Association (RVSSSA) Term 2A Games that saw them qualify for the nationals.St. Anthony beat Ortum of west Pokot 1-0 in the Rift finals in Eldoret as Wiyeta eliminated Tartar 2-1. According to St. Anthony coach Peter Mayoyo, they are focused on defending their crown. &ldquo;Our preparations to defend the title started immediately after we won the national title last year. All along, we have been working on perfecting the team ahead of the games,&rdquo; Mayoyo said.He said the team is ready for the competition after polishing on their weak points. &ldquo;The morale is high and they are ready for the competition. There were a few shortcomings experienced during our Rift region competition and we have tried to work on them. We are praying to God that we emerge victorious again,&rdquo; he added. St. Anthony will face their arch-rivals Kakamega High in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; and Ramisi from Coast. Trans Nzoia&rsquo;s Wiyeta are also warming up for the title. They are pitted against Utithi of Eastern, Kwale Girls (Coast) and Nyakach of Nyanza in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;.Wiyeta coach Wamalwa Awoh said the team is totally new from the previous champions but the side is better this year. &ldquo;If you look at the team, they are stronger and skilled than last year. This is a new group of young girls talented in football,&rdquo; Awoh said. He said their target is to come out of the preliminaries in order to defend the title.&ldquo;Preliminaries are tricky and the girls are confident of successfully defending the title. I have told them not to underrate any team but fight tooth and nail for victory,&rdquo; he added.RVSSSA chairman Kipchumba Maiyo said their aim is to scoop the overall title in the games.&ldquo;The teams we are fielding for the nationals are strong and we have confidence in them that they will deliver the overall title. Last year during Term One games, we got the overall title and this time we also want to win it, ,&rdquo; Maiyo said.St. Anthony beat Ortum of west Pokot 1-0 in the Rift finals in Eldoret as Wiyeta eliminated Tartar 2-1. According to St. Anthony coach Peter Mayoyo, they are focused on defending their crown. &ldquo;Our preparations to defend the title started immediately after we won the national title last year. All along, we have been working on perfecting the team ahead of the games,&rdquo; Mayoyo said.