The race for the 2017 East Africa Secondary School Games tickets begin today at Shimo La Tewa and Shanzu Teachers Training College, Mombasa.While slots available to East Africa School Games are in handball, netball (girls) and rugby sevens (boys), Copa Coca Cola under-16 football will take the centre stage as teams eye the top honours that also comes with an international boot camp later in the year.Defending champions St. Anthony&rsquo;s Boys, Kitale and Wiyeta Girls (both from Rift Valley) will be looking to retain their titles amid tough opposition.St. Anthony&rsquo;s first hurdle will be bitter rivals, the Green Commandos of Kakamega High School, and will later face a stubborn Garissa High and Ramisi in the preliminaries. Highly billed as the group of death, Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; has equally tough outfits including Kisumu Day, Upper Hill, Passenga and Isiolo.Hosting region&rsquo;s winners Kwale Girls will want to have their name written in the books of history as winners, but they will first have to go past holders Wiyeta, Utithi and Nyakach in the knockouts. The other pool have national stage debutants Chebukaka against last year&rsquo;s finalists Olympic Secondary School, Waa Girls and Njabini in the group stages.There will be new champions in handball and rugby Sevens in the absence of holders St. Luke&rsquo;s Boys, Kimilili and Laiser Hill respectively. Boys handball teams will be looking out for each other as former holders were locked out of the nationals.The boys category has no favourite as it has no former champions or finalists. St. Ignatius Mukumu Boys, Nduluni, St. George&rsquo;s and Sheik Ali will square it out in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; as Kenyatta High, Dr. Ribeiro Parklands, Sinyereri and Kanyawanga make up the second group.Defending champions Moi Girls, Kamusinga are still favourites to retain the trophy but this may not come easy. They start their campaign against Wajir Girls today as Utithi meet St. Francis Cheptarit. Nairobi&rsquo;s New Jogoo Road play Sega, while Kahuho invite Voi White House Girls in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo;.In netball, St. Dorcus encounter former champions Obambo as holders Kaya Tiwi play Moi Girls Mandera in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;. Karuri face Cheptil and Utithi meet Mukuyu in the openers.Rugby Sevens starts on Thursday and the highly competitive teams are looking to stage upsets. Schools at the nationals are Kaya Tiwi, Mghalu, Galana and Shimo La Tewa, Alliance High, Kagumo High, Muhuri Muchiri, Nairobi School, Chavakali, Bungoma High, Kangaru, Katwanyaaa, Menengai, Simotwo, Maseno School and St. Joseph&rsquo;s Rapogi.