Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho behaved like "a chokora" when he attempted to gate-crash the launch of the SGR, JP&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal has said. &ldquo;If you behave like a 'chokora' [street urchin] you will be treated like one,&rdquo; the Jubilee candidate for Mombasa governor said on Friday when he and running mate Annania Mwaboza were cleared by the IEBC at the Kenya School of Government.On Wednesday, Joho was blocked from attending the launch graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta at Miriritini Terminus, Mombasa.Shahbal said the project is transformational and will open up areas.&ldquo;No country can become great without initiating transformational projects. The SGR will change the economy of this country in many ways,&rdquo; he said.Shahbal said the same people who were involved in the signing of an MoU for the project are the same ones criticising it.&ldquo;The MoU was signed in 2009, when former PM Raila Odinga was there. The last contracts for SGR were signed when Joho was assistant minister of transport. I'm surprised now that when this thing is successful and ready to roll the same people are coming out to criticise it,&rdquo; he said.He said this was a case of sour grapes.Shahbal said none of the 47 governors, apart from Joho, has ever been thrown out of a public function, saying the ODM deputy boss has disgraced his office.&ldquo;He has to go. We are sending him home on August 8,&rdquo; he said. Joho has said he will easily retain his seat.The governor said SGR will lead to economic sabotage and termed the project a PR stunt.But Shahbal said he does not understand basic economics.&ldquo;There is no major project that is not done unless it is funded by concessional funding. This SGR is funded by China. The off take is a normal thing in any infrastructure project. This thing boils down to a simple lack of understanding of basic economics 101,&rdquo; he said.The banker said there is nothing extraordinary about the financing of the SGR.Joho said the government spent Sh100 billion more to construct SGR, compared to Ethiopia.Shahbal said a third of the funds went to land acquisition, unlike Ethiopia where the government takes land at will.&ldquo;You cannot compare apples and oranges. This is completely different thing. I don't think the governor is talking from a factual point of view. I think he needs to go back and understand exactly the basis of how this fantastic project has come about,&rdquo; he said.Shahbal disputed Joho's assertion that 80 per cent of cargo from the port will be transported by SGR and said the agreement was 40 per cent.He said the transportation via SGR will be economical compared to road.It will take Sh50,000 to transport a container from Mombasa to Nairobi down from Sh100,000It will cost Sh700 for an economy class down from an average of Sh1,200 by bus.&ldquo;Why should a passenger stay in a bus between nine or 10 hours and pay twice what you pay in the railway and do it half the time,&rdquo; he said.He said petty politics should be put a side.