Kilifi Jubilee leaders want Governor Amason Kingi to explain how he spent the Sh9.8 billion they say has been allocated to the county since 2013. They said he should do so instead of continuously criticising national government projects. The county chief has often criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee administration saying its leaders have failed his county. In March, Kingi asked Uhuru to apologise to residents for “lying” to them over state allocations to the county. In a call for accountability in February, DP William Ruto said the county was allocated Sh9.6 billion, "making it the fourth largest recipient of county allocations". Read: Apologise for lying about allocation, Kingi tells Uhuru Also read: Kilifi water shortage makes no sense - DP Led by aspiring governor Gideon Mung’aro and Kilifi South MP Mustafa Idd, the leaders said Kingi's government did not deliver on devolution. Mung’aro, who is Kilifi North MP, said the administration failed residents as it was marred by corruption scandals, ghost projects and overpriced projects. He said the governor imported milk powder from South Africa and processed it in Mombasa instead of empowering women to rear dairy cows for funds to circulate within the county. “The milk which lasted two weeks only. It was not from Kenya Cooperative Creameries. It was bought in South Africa in powder form and taken to Mombasa," he said. More on this: Probe rampant corruption in Kilifi, Mung'aro tells EACC The legislator called for support on election day, saying if elected, all tenders and funds will be for the people. Mung'aro promised to give women's groups funds to buy dairy cows and sell the milk to the county for daily processing. “How will locals benefit if milk is bought from South Africa? If elected, I will give tenders to youths, the physically challenged and women." The politician further said his administration will ensure banks give these groups loans for starting businesses. “Banks shall give out loans. If one completes the project, we will pay them through the banks so they can make deductions. It is strange that the Governor does not give tenders to locals," he said. Idd said the incumbent cannot abandon NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga because he got three ministries when the latter was Prime Minister. “Kingi and Joho cannot move out of ODM. In 2007, Kingi was in charge of three ministries courtesy of Raila. He was Minister for Industrialization, the East African Community and Fisheries yet he was fresh from university." They spoke in Dindiri in Chasimba Ward on Thursday during a meeting that Jubilee aspirants including Ken Nyale (Senator) and Amina Mnyazi (woman representative) also attended. The politicians asked leaders to reject ODM and Kingi and elect their own who will work with Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto to transform lives.