NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has split his campaign team into two for a four-day tour of the Western region.In a fresh strategy to undo what President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto achieved last week when they camped in the region, Raila has scheduled a series of rallies considered his bedrock.From tomorrow, two separate groups will be campaigning in Trans Nzoia county. Team A will start its campaigns in Kiminini, then head to Saboti, Endebess and end the day in Kitale town. Team B will start its campaigns in Kwanza, proceed to Cherangany before joining team A in Kitale town.On Friday, the teams will head to Bungoma county, where team A will take its campaigns to Cheptais, Sirisia, Bumula then to Bungoma town. Team B will start its campaigns in Tongaren, Kimilili, Webuye town, before joining team A in Bungoma town for a rally.On Saturday, the NASA battalion will storm Kakamega county. Team A will make its first stop in Shamakhokho, then head to Serem, Boyani and Gisambai, before ending in Mbale.Team B will tour Luanda, Khumusalaba and Majengo, then join team A in Mbale.On Sunday, the NASA brigade will camp in Busia county for the whole day.Team A will start its campaigns in former ODM secretary general Ababu Namwamba&rsquo;s Budalang&rsquo;i constituency. Then it goes to immediate former national vice chairman Paul Otuoma&rsquo;s Funyula backyard. Then to Bumala and Matayos, ending the day with a rally in Busia town.Team B will tour Malaba, Amagoro, Kimaeti, Nambale and converge at Busia town.Yesterday, the NASA team was scheduled to be in Kajiado for the second time in less than a week. Raila&rsquo;s first stop was to be Oloitokitok, then on to Kimaana and in Kitengela.Today, the brigade will storm Uhuru&rsquo;s stronghold of Naivasha.On Monday, Raila and his team campaigned in the city with the first stop in Dagoretti Corner, Deliverance Church, Congo then Lutheran Church.The team also snaked through Westland&rsquo;s Express Bottom Line, Kangemi Social Hall, Village Inn, St Joseph&rsquo;s, Kangemi Market, stopping at Westlands shopping centre.Last Thursday in Kajiado, Raila expressed confidence he will beat Uhuru hands down. Raila said Jubilee is dead-scared that NASA has gained ground in all the 47 counties.The opposition chief asked the Maasais to vote out the current government, citing its failure to deal with unresolved historical injustices. &ldquo;Our people in Maasai land have continued to suffer historical land injustices, even after the country attained independence more that 50 years ago,&rdquo; Raila said. &ldquo;Ours is the leading coalition that will deliver Kenyans from the current tough times.&rdquo;