One of the most perplexing issues in the narrative around the standard gauge railway is the inexplicable resistance from the people that will get more direct benefits.The SGR has been most cajoled, resisted, mocked and even subtly threatened by Kenyans from the former Nyanza and Western provinces.The political leaders in the region have never wasted any opportunity to criticise the project. Many opinion leaders from the region have also joined the politicians in what appears as an all-out war against the SGR. One leading politician from the region was even quoted in the press asking what the SGR was coming to do in KisumuIf one were to rely on the narrative of the politicians, the impression created is one of a major White Elephant, and disaster of monumental proportions.In the minds of the politicians, the SGR is the worst thing to ever happen on Kenyan soil. Ironically, the same leaders claim that the SGR was their brainchild.Without dwelling on the political rhetoric, I will today look at the socioeconomic impact of the SGR in the area whose leadership has been in the forefront of resisting it&mdash;the former Nyanza province.One is revitalised lake transport. The China Road and Bridge Corporation has already started to build a modern Sh14 billion port in Kisumu. The company will also modernise the Homa Bay, Mbita and Luanda Kotieno Piers. The completion of the Kisumu Inland Container Depot is expected to coincide with the completion of Phase 2b of the SGR between Naivasha and Kisumu.The new line will pass through Narok, Bomet, Sondu and Ahero. Phase 2c will go through Yala and Mumias before reaching Malaba. A fortnight ago President Uhuru secured funding totalling Sh360 billion when he met Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing.Already, several investors in Uganda, northern Tanzania and Rwanda have started planning to take advantage of the new port facilities.The immediate benefit is that residents of large areas in Nyakach, Kano, Kisumu town, Seme and Gem in Nyanza will get immediate compensation running into billions of shillings.In addition, the local economies of the region will be boosted by huge numbers of construction workers and activities. It beats logic why a leader would persistently oppose something that would directly give such benefits to his people.Two is the boost to the Nyanza tourism circuit. One of the biggest hindrances to the development of the tourism potential of Nyanza and Western has been the lack of affordable and reliable transport connection between the Mombasa and Maasai Mara hotspots.The SGR, in one genius masterstroke, connects two of the most popular spots &ndash; the Kenyan Coast and Maasai Mara &ndash; to Kisumu. A journey from Mombasa to Kisumu, through Narok would take only 10 hours. Tourism planners say a daylong trip from the sandy beaches in Mombasa through the beautiful Tsavo, Nairobi National Park, and the breathtaking Rift Valley to the cool and refreshing Lake Victoria beach would be a must do for all tourists.What does this mean for Kisumu and surrounding areas? Huge number of tourists will be arriving, and will obviously need to sleep and spend in Kisumu. Areas such as the Mt Elgon National Park, Huma Park and Dominion Farms Bird Sanctuary will benefit from increased visitors.Again, it beats logic why any leader would oppose a project that gives direct benefits to his people.Three, factories based in the lake region will get easier access to the Mombasa port via the SGR. One of the reasons many fish processing firms are based far from the lake is due to lack of easy access to the Port of Mombasa.For onstance, Dominion Farms in Siaya currently produces about four million kilos of fish. The farm has the potential of producing up to 20 million kilos. One of the reasons they have not expanded is lack of effective transport. With the freight service starting, it will be easier for production units like Dominion Farms to export.Again, it beats logic why any leader would oppose something like the SGR, which gives the people of Nyanza and Western so much promise and hope.