An independent candidate might pull off an upset win for the Mombasa Senate seat, political analysts and Mombasa voters have said.The three independent front runners are Hamisi Mwaguya, Jabess Oduor and Mohammed Abbas.All performed well in the Saturday debate organised by Human Rights Agenda at Mbaraki Hall.Senator Hassan Omar is running for governor on the Wiper ticket, seeking to defeat Governor Hassan Joho.The three independents ditched parties allied to NASA.Mwaguya lost the ODM ticket to Mohammed Faki. Oduor lost to Wiper&rsquo;s Lawrence Kisilu.Abbas was in ODM, but did not participate in the nominations. He chose to go independent.Coast political analyst Philip Kaulu says Mwaguya is still the favourite of many people.&ldquo;Mombasa is still an opposition stronghold. Many people are not really aware of the independent candidates. Therefore, Faki might sail through because he is in ODM. However, we cannot rule out Mwaguya because he is his main challenger,&rdquo; Kaulu said.Speaking to the Star yesterday in Mombasa town, Kaulu said in 2013, Senator Omar defeated seasoned politicians Ramadhan Kajembe and Najib Balala.&ldquo;In 2013, Wiper was seen as a weak party in the Cord coalition. ODM and Jubilee were more popular. However, Omar got over 130,000 votes, beating Kajembe and Balala,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Therefore, the issue of party in the race in Mombasa is not integral.&rdquo;eDuring the debate, Faki was criticised for bringing up the name of Governor Hassan Joho of ODM.&ldquo;There were murmurs in the crowd. This shows clearly people are not after a party or candidates endorsed by a senior leader. Mombasa residents will vote for individuals,&rdquo; Vincent Obuya, a Mombasa resident, told the Star.Huria executive director Yusuf Lule told the Star the debate was tough.&ldquo;The senator candidates really tried. They know how to articulate issues,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are hoping one of these independents will win,&rdquo; Obuya said. He said Faki is riding on ODM&rsquo;s popularity to win.