It is interesting how Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju has continuously attacked NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. Surprisingly, the opposition chief never responds to Tuju. Last week, when Tuju called a presser to respond to allegations that President Uhuru Kenyatta compromised the IEBC ballot paper tender, he was pushed by journalists to respond to the ballot tender issue after his sentiments focussed on discrediting Raila and not answering the issue.=== A personal assistant to one of the Jubilee parliamentary candidates - Ngunjiri Wambugu - spent the night at the Nyeri Central police station. The PA is alleged to have become embroiled in an argument with another lady at a local bar. Ngunjiri&rsquo;s supporters yesterday pitched tent at the police station when the PA was released on a cash bail of Sh50,000 paid by the MP hopeful. === A businessman in Nairobi who religiously follows and contributes to Jubilee activities was ranting to a State House aide on the phone that Jubilee technocrats should learn how to use propaganda to win votes. That the first rule is when one uses propaganda he/she doesn&rsquo;t expect to sustain or capitalise on it for long, because people are fast to learn the truth. He said it is interesting that all senior people in the government from President Uhuru Kenyatta, to Deputy President William Ruto and Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery have called for the arrest of NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga - and nothing has happened for days on end. He added it is high time they moved on.=== IT seems Jubilee bloggers are either understaffed or struggling to do what they are paid for. They are known as The 36 Bloggers. Every moment every media house posts a story perceived to be negative to the government, they all flock to comment and discredit the story. What they fail to understand is that Kenyans have grown beyond character assassination politics. === IS Majority Leader Aden Duale sincere and spotless enough to call for the arrest of NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga over alleged incitement utterances on land issues in Kajiado last week? Many are wondering how the Garissa Township MP is so full of vigour asking the investigative agencies, including the NCIC, to probe Raila, yet the same Francis Kaparo-led commission has since January not told Kenyans of the status of Duale&rsquo;s alleged incitement case. Also, the speed with which the NCIC, DPP and Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery have expressed readiness to probe Raila raises eyebrows, considering some Jubilee leaders too have been making very worrying remarks.