On the way to the Impala rugby club to watch the Kenya 15s team train for their game on Saturday, it began to rain, slowly increasing until it could only be described as a torrential downpour.Worried training would be cancelled, I made a call to team manager Leonard Wangila, who reassured me that it would still go ahead. So under less than stellar conditions, I watched the players being put through drill after drill, over and over again.With the sound of them running across the field coupled with the occasional thunder and lightning flashing across the sky &ndash; it was spectacular to watch.Dedication, hard work and most of all passion is the corner stone of the team&rsquo;s success, and training begins long before the season starts.Leonard told me, &ldquo;For you to perform well, you have to begin in November because the body has to take a lot of beating and refining before you can start on strength and conditioning.&ldquo;These boys wake up at 4am on Mondays to be at the strength and conditioning gym on Ngong road by 5am to start training from 6am till 8am.&rdquo;And because Kenyan rugby is a semi-professional sport, a lot of the players have to juggle training with their everyday lives.&ldquo;A guy who is in college, has to go to college. A guy who is working, has to go to work. A guy who has a rehabilitation program, has to go for that, then they all reassemble on the same day at 6pm to train till around 7.30 or 8 depending on the weather.&rdquo;And the training can be brutal, Leonard adds, &ldquo;In the morning we have strength and conditioning programme which is basically working on your strength, endurance and power. In the evening is tactical analysis, scrummaging, game formations and game structure.&ldquo;Remember the same player also has challenges, club obligations. And different clubs train differently. Now blending that into the national team requires a lot of sacrifice and work.&rdquo;On top of that, the players have to change their strategy depending on the game they are faced with and their opponent.&ldquo;The way you face Germany is different to the way you face Uganda. The way we face Tunisia will be different from the way we face Senegal, because the Senegal players are tall guys, big guys. Unlike Ugandans who are smaller but unpredictable. We have to think about our defence structures, how are we going to base our attack structure?&rdquo; Leonard says.In addition to the physical training, a lot of focus is put on what the players eat, especially as their team manager does not support the use of supplementations.&ldquo;Winning on Saturday depends on how we ate last week. And the week before. The danger is, suddenly there&rsquo;s a game on Saturday and you begin feeding a player well on Wednesday. It doesn&rsquo;t work like that.&rdquo;The camaraderie between the players is remarkable to witness. There is a bond between them that is very easy to see, and vital for them to play to the best of their ability.Also watching the training session was Anthony Oyugi Oloo, who plays for Impala club and has had a rather dramatic rugby career after suffering multiple injuries.He said, &ldquo;Teamwork is built during training. The moment you show up to train together, that&rsquo;s the start of being in a team. If we&rsquo;re showering together, if we&rsquo;re eating together, if we&rsquo;re training together, we get to know each other personally and that&rsquo;s how we bond.&rdquo;All their hard work is paying off, after their win against Uganda, Leonard says he is confident about the upcoming matches.&ldquo;This is the team that beat Spain, that beat Portugal, that beat Namibia and Hong Kong. We can only be the best if we play with the best. We measure the challenges and make sure that we are up to them.&rdquo;But they do need one thing. &ldquo;This is a 15-a-side team. But there&rsquo;s a 16th player on that field and that&rsquo;s the fans. We would like them to turn up. Friends, family, everyone, come cheer our boys into victory.&rdquo;