Murdered freedom fighter Orkoiyot Koitalel arap Samoei was honoured yesterday when President Uhuru Kenyatta launched construction of a Sh3.4 billion university named after him.Uhuru laid the foundation stone of the Koitalel Samoei University College at the spot where Koitalel was tricked and killed in 1905 by British colonialists. Koitalel was the supreme chief of the Nandi and is revered all over Kalenjinland. The move is expected to appeal to Kalenjin voters in Nandi county and the vote-rich Rift Valley. Uhuru said it has taken a long time, but finally, Koitalel will get the honour he deserves. The university will be opened in two years.&ldquo;As a country, we will not forget those who came before us and stood for justice. Koitalel was a hero for all Kenyans,&rdquo; the President said. He urged youth to take advantage of the access to education to achieve personal and national progress.&ldquo;Let us all strive to expand our economy because no one else will come to develop our country,&rdquo; Uhuru said.The President said the university will also bring economic growth to Nandi Hills town.Deputy President William Ruto said the construction of the university was an emotional issue for the residents of the county and neighbouring regions where Koitalel came from.&ldquo;This university represents the history of the people of Nandi. On behalf of the Nandi people and myself, I want to thank you for starting the construction of this institution,&rdquo; the DP said. He shares the name Samoei with Koitalel.He said regional leaders insisted the first course the university college offers should be law, to represent the freedom and justice that Koitalel stood for. &ldquo;We want the university to produce people to defend our freedom and the sovereignty of our nation,&rdquo; the DP said.He compared what the British did to Kenyans during Koitalel&rsquo;s time to what the International Criminal Court tried to do to Uhuru and himself. He was charged with crimes against humanity in connection with the 2007-08 PEV, but the case collapsed.The university will begin as a constituent of the University of Nairobi.&ldquo;It will start with a School of Law, signifying that Koitalel died fighting for freedom,&rdquo; said Prof Peter Ngau, the Principal of the College of Architecture and Engineering.The college will establish a sports academy for a region described as the home of athletics champions. The college will then add a School of Business to contribute to the country&rsquo;s future and Vision 2030, Ngau said.