The story of transformation in Singapore from a third world country to a first-class nation has been narrated a million times.The purported audience just skims on the footnotes and proceeds with their usual business, unawed. Let us just represent it here, investing stark hope that the people that matter may re-read it again &mdash; and act.Well, Singapore was among the world&rsquo;s poorest nations at Independence in 1965. With a population of around 1.9 million, the new state had an uphill task of standing on its own, because of certain problems, ranging from governance structures to rollout of services. Its per capita income was equivalent to that of Ghana.The tiny country had a depressing deficit of land and natural resources. The shortage of food, mainly due to inadequate land, &lsquo;gifted&rsquo; the country an undernourished population. Having accepted this fate, the founding fathers set out on an industrial path, creating manufacturing industries and financial operation centres.The government of the time made the economy a free market-driven one, minimally controlled by the government. Incentives were generously provided, and corruption was an alien vice. Meritocracy was cultivated as a national culture, right from political leadership to the lowest echelons of the civil service. The leaders were very pragmatic, and every problem was solved using the most appropriate strategies. Personal benevolence did not overtake the public interest. Honesty formed the transactional denominator in all government business. Today, Singapore is the world&rsquo;s most successful society.All the growth indicators relevant to the development of Singapore are the same factors, from the converse end, that have dogged the stillbirth of Kenyan&rsquo;s economy. In 1963, Kenya&rsquo;s prospects were way much brighter than those of Singapore. Indeed, with the natural resource competitive advantage, we would have supplied Singapore with food as a way of helping the Asian country. However, and sadly so, Kenya started off with a leadership that sought personal gratification over public benefit. That is the point the rains started beating us. The primary guiding point was that the people required leaders more than the leaders had the responsibility of serving the people. Thus, it was the politician first and whatever remained in that arrangement was thrown to the public. Token leadership had been born. No one bothered with creating a culture strong on meritocracy: Merit depended on what position you held in the government. The vicious cycle of poverty, and thus hopelessness, was formed. Jubilee, in so many ways, resembles the intoxicated governments running up to 2002. You see, changing a third world country requires you effect systemic changes that effect transformation in the minds of everyone. For example, had the government displayed a zero-tolerance attitude on corruption, nobody would pride themselves on being rich through rogue means. Ironically, it is the top leaders who are feeding the country on this get-rich-quick notion, thus perpetrating a culture of grand theft. If, for example, a Cabinet Secretary takes way Sh5 billion, the directors will want a share of Sh500 million; the parastatal bosses would want to take Sh200 million. All the public projects initiated by the Jubilee regime have left a whiff of corruption behind them. This means none will give the public the value of their tax. When everyone is stealing, nobody will be interested in oversighting the other.The other day,Treasury bailed out the East African Portland Cement Company to the tune of Sh399.5 million for a loan from a Japanese lender the blue chip company was unable to service. The government also bailed out Kenya Airways and Uchumi Supermarkets. With such precedents, do you think any parastatal will be pushed to perform or payback? That is, precisely how the country becomes a broke and failed state. The token leadership of stealing Sh900 million and using Sh50 million to appease the population is here with us. It is entirely necessary to reader-discretion advice and positing that each citizen in this country is on their own. Mwangi is a political commentator