Rights activists said on Friday that Governor Kenneth Lusaka and rival Wycliffe Wangamati should be fined far more than Sh1 million each for electoral mayhem in which a woman was shot dead. Or, they could be barred from election to teach other politicians a lesson, they said.&ldquo;As activists, we are not happy with the IEBC ruling on the two governor candidates. We expected them to be more firm, since the woman [identified only as Kadogo] was the sole family breadwinner. She left behind a very young family,&rdquo; Moses Lukoye said.Speaking to the press in Webuye town on Friday, the activists said the penalty was too lenient and could not make up for a person&rsquo;s life.The activists also said a lot of property was destroyed during the chaos on June 2.Supporters of Lusaka and Wangamati clashed at dual rallies celebrating the candidates&rsquo; receiving clearance certificates from the IEBC. Supporters were escorting the candidates.The woman was fatally shot as police attempted to disperse supporters of the two candidates in Bungoma town.On Wednesday the IEBC imposed the fines.Lusaka is defending his seat on a Jubilee Party ticket.Wangamati is running on the Ford Kenya ticket.IEBC&rsquo;s Electoral Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee said that Lusaka and Wangamati breached the code by failing to control their supporoters.&ldquo;We find there was an outright violation of electoral conduct by both. Lusaka and Wangamati are to pay a Sh1 million fine each to IEBC within the next 24 hours,&rdquo; committee vice chair Consolata Nkatha said. She said the clash &ldquo;was a case of the show of might&rdquo; impeding free and peaceful campaigns.Rights activist Lukoye said Bungoma Deputy Governor Hillary Chongwony&rsquo;s guard should be prosecuted for the role he played in the woman&rsquo;s death.&ldquo;Ken Kisa, who was arrested on the same day the woman was killed, has not been charged. We are wondering why not,&rdquo; he said. Lukoye said the law must be applied evenhandedly, without any bias. He said the guard should be charged with abuse of a firearm that led to the death of Kadogo.She was buried in her home village in Northern Uganda. Her family quietly moved her body from the Bungoma morgue. They wanted to keep away politicians who had planned to exploit her body-viewing as a campaign platform to make speeches.