Kenya Simbas coach Jerome Paarwater believes there is room for improvement in his charges following a disappointing 33-all draw against Uganda in a Africa Gold Cup-cum Elgon Cup match at the RFUEA grounds on Saturday. And despite winning the Elgon Cup on aggregate score of 56-51, having won the first leg 23-18 in Kampala to bag their 10th victory, several fans left the RFUEA ground a dejected lot after a ‘shambolic display’ by the Kenya Simbas. Paarwater, whose charges face Tunisia in a fortnight, said defensive lapses ares still evident in the side and the inability to close-out matches came to haunt Kenya in the final 20 minutes of this epic encounter. “Our defense was not up to par in both halves as we had several missed tackles which saw the Ugandans stage a comeback. We must go back to the drawing board and try to change all that,” said Paarwater. The South African tactician said the boys mental strength must improve against tougher opponents. “We saw in the Germany game we had lapses in concentration in the final 10 minutes and it’s something the technical bench and I must improve ahead of matches against Tunisia, Senegal, Zimababwe and holders Namibia” he added. When asked if Kenya was stagnating and regressing, Paarwater said: “Credit to Uganda. They came to play and gave us a stern examination so they are a team we will not write off and must step up and play better.” Uganda skipper Marvin Odongo was disappointed with the result after taking the lead with less than five minutes to go. “My boys came to play. We just could not execute our defensive tactics in the final minutes. I am disappointed. We had Kenya on the ropes in the final minutes and if we had defended well, we would have won the match. Michael Wokorach scored two tries for Uganda with Alex Mubiru scoring one. Kabras fullback Phillip Wokorach added three conversions and three penalties for the visitors Jacob Ojee touched down twice for kenya with prop Moses Amusala scoring one try. Darwin Mukidza added three conversions and two penalties for the hosts The referee also awarded Kenya a penalty try for persistent infringement.