The party nominations came and went; winners celebrated with gusto, losers decided to strategise afresh. They clearly spoke of an evolving democracy. One positive aspect being that in places with deep ethnic divisions, where tribal identity is strong, we saw an inspiring voting pattern &#9472; aspirants whose last names would have otherwise betrayed them, triumphed.Incumbents, whose stints in office have been characterised by complacency, lethargy, failure of vision, failure to prioritise, misuse of public funds and lack of commitment to service delivery, faced the wrath of the people at the ballot. In some very interesting areas, veteran politicians were trounced by political rookies.Politicians with tangible development records were rewarded heavily. Two lessons are clear: First, the electorate is becoming emancipated by the day. It is now dawning on the people that leaders are supposed to serve them and not dictate or lord it over them, besides, the decision they make through the ballot determines the quality of their lives for the next five years. Truly, a nation on the move!Second, through the politicians&rsquo; eyes, the reality of service has sunk in deeply. Elective seats are not a place for retirement or to hide ones ill-gotten wealth and ultimately be cushioned from prosecution. It is an opportunity to serve. In the end, hard work pays.Political analysts touted the entire exercise as an indictment of our political process. As in any typical democracy, diverse views are allowed. It is against this backdrop I would like to travel down that road in exercise of my conscience while upholding liberalism. Let us look at both of the sides of the nomination coin.I treasure to think and examine carefully virtually everything I get sight of. My initial reservations on the entire nominations process quake within me. The media focussed with great tenacity on the big winners and losers, mostly men. Very little was said about women, especially during the campaigns. Very few media outlets, if any, bothered to examine and document women&rsquo;s experiences in the nominations.There are two ways the media ought to have looked at it. First is the success stories of the women candidates. The best case scenario being women who graduated from aspirants to candidates in various political parties.We would like to know what their experiences were. Was the competition easy for them? If not, what then worked to turn things around in their favour? Is it money, connections, less patriarchy in their areas, hard work, their track records, good networking and negotiating skills, party support or sheer luck? Considering the obstacles that persistently frustrate women in politics, it would have been appropriate to put this information into perspective. The media ought to have gotten this information from the winner&rsquo;s mouth and disseminated it to the public to shift the long-held perception on women in leadership.Second, in the same breath, good media coverage should have been channelled to those who lost for one reason or another to find out what went wrong, and what were the lessons?These lessons would undoubtedly help to strategise new approaches in the future. The IEBC also had a lot to learn from the primaries.As a society struggling to achieve gender parity in elective seats, we cannot afford to blindfold ourselves to some of the most sordid and undemocratic issues in the primaries. Some of the women I have spoken to who took part in the nominations expressed great disappointment with the entire exercise. There were many malpractices and irregularities. Voting more than once was an overriding theme. Favouritism by a clique of party officials of certain aspirants, voter importation, voter bribery and open rigging characterised the exercise. Voter bribery is a frequent occurrence during elections around the world. It has very negative impacts on the quality and fairness of elections.Political parties know better. These are some of the vices that retard our democratic growth. On a larger scale, these practices tend to scare women from taking part in politics. This means nominations in such circumstances fail to reward merit, effort and capabilities and, instead, reward those with the ability to intimidate opponents and manipulate the electoral system. Again, these undemocratic practices defeat the principles of free and fair elections, and they do not only work against women&rsquo;s quest for leadership but all politicians of moral standing.It is also true, on a fair note, that political parties tried their level best. There were places with no cases of malpractices and those who lost conceded defeat. Such moments offered hope to our burgeoning democracy. It was a clear expression of democracy in word and practice. Political parties have meagre resources compared to what the IEBC receives from the government and donors. Therefore, to expect parties to be without blemish is to be insensitive. Nonetheless, that is no reason to embrace complacency or fail to pursue excellence.We must commit to modern democratic governance practices that guarantee a future of prosperity and equality in our economic and social-political spheres.Nkuubi is executive director, Governance Pillar Organization [email&#160;protected]