Police are looking for a matatu driver over the killing of his wife and two children last week, by an attacker who left their bodies in their house. The victims were identified as 30-year-old Grace Njeri and her children - Joy Wangare (11) and Maxwell Wachira (five). Njeri's husband is Erastus Kabage. The bodies were discovered in their house in Muthure village, Kabete, on Friday after neighbours followed the foul smell. They also noticed a swarm of flies. Kabete OCPD Joseph Ongaya said the bodies were placed on the sofa in the sitting position. The OCPD said the three were killed with a car's steering rod and that investigators also found blood stains in the living room. “The injuries on their heads and chests may have been inflicted using a blunt object. We collected a bloody steering rod from the scene." Ongaya said that last Friday, Kabage parked a Nissan he bought recently at a car wash and was yet to collect it. He said they were also pursuing one other suspect.  Residents of Muthure in Kabete constituency look at the photographs of the murdered family outside their house, June 2, 2017. GEORGE MUGO A resident said she asked one of her workers to look inside the house. "He confirmed the smell was coming from the house. He screamed when he looked through the window saying there were dead people inside," she said.  Kabete OCPD Joseph Ongaya in the neighbourhood where there family members were found dead, June 2, 2017. /GEORGE MUGO One of Njeri's friends said she went missing last Friday. “I last saw Njeri that day. I have been trying to call her but her phone is usually off. I wanted to know if they moved to another house or where she was," Jane Wanja said. Wanja said Wangare was a class five pupil of Gataara Primary school while Wachira attended Gracewan Nursery School. She said the couple often quarreled and that Njeri would be beaten by her husband Erastus Kabage. She added they usually solved their problems privately. The bodies were taken to PCEA Kikuyu Hospital mortuary.