NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga has lashed out at President Uhuru Kenyatta for welcoming the plan by East African Brewery Limited to set up a Sh15 billion brewery plant in Kisumu.Speaking during a rally in Narok yesterday, Raila said it is wrong for the head of state to &ldquo;ride on the investment plan of a private firm&rdquo;.Raila said Uhuru should have restricted himself in highlighting the progress achieved by his administration since it came to power. &ldquo;They are trembling because a brewery factory is a private investment but not that of the Jubilee government. Our manifesto was better than that of Jubilee and that is why Uhuru has resorted to launching new projects in Kisumu,&rdquo; Raila said.He accused the Jubilee government of failing to deliver services to Kenyans, adding that it has been thriving on the few development projects that were initiated by the previous regime.&ldquo;They are bragging around with the few projects initiated by retired President Mwai Kibaki and myself. Kenyans are tired of lies. Jubilee has done nothing for Kenyans and will never perform even if it stays in power for 100 years,&rdquo; he said. The ODM leader said the government has failed in creating jobs for youths, lowering the cost of living and improving infrastructure.&ldquo;When I was in government, I oversaw construction of many roads across the country. Some of the road projects have stalled and are waiting for Raila to get back to power for them to be accomplished,&rdquo; he said. Raila continued, &ldquo;You will notice a big difference if you elect me as your President. NASA has experts who are able to revive the economy&rdquo;. The EABL said the investment is in line with efforts against illicit brews. The company also noted the ease of doing business in the region.The investment will see about 110,000 youths from the county get jobs. The President said the EABL is targeting sorghum farmers from Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Nyeri, Machakos and Tharaka Nithi counties. Uhuru also said one of his administration&rsquo;s main aim is to empower both the public and private sectors.