If there&rsquo;s a &lsquo;sport&rsquo; Kenyans seem to be on right now, it&rsquo;s politics. We&rsquo;re all players, no matter our level of participation: Every single Kenyan is a politico. The political sport, however, is the kind that we can never predict nor, in extreme cases, comprehend. They&rsquo;ll tell you the only predictable thing about politics is its unpredictability. A couple months ago my friends and I were talking about the emergence of a not-so-vocal but highly proactive electorate.This is the electorate that isn&rsquo;t afraid to take chances and push the reset button on leadership. Recently and gradually, we&rsquo;ve celebrated the fall of political incumbents and big dogs from the primaries. People don&rsquo;t seem confused anymore about what they want, and this has never been clearer than it is right now.I remember during the mass voter registration campaign, there was a hesitation as to why registering as a voter was necessary, if we would still have the same people on the ballot. As true and frustrating as this sounds, something had to give because we couldn&rsquo;t possibly be stuck complaining. The first step was getting &ldquo;new&rdquo; or &ldquo;good&rdquo; people to come forth and stand. All of us agree that we must have electable people at the ballot. If at all choice is what is holding us back, then let&rsquo;s create it &mdash; step by step.Step one: It remains humbling the number of ordinary average people who put themselves forward and the support they received. Kenyans voted for people who stereotypically, don&rsquo;t match up to the political class we&rsquo;re used to. A good example is a watchman who beat the incumbent who had all imaginable advantages over him in Kericho county to clinch the MCA ticket. From various counties across the country, options were provided and many new qualified Kenyans will be on the ballot.We must realise two things: More people are willing to act upon change by being the change they want and the electorate is ready for and to support that change. This is no longer a new chapter but a new book that Kenyans are writing and it&rsquo;s exciting. I cannot even remember how long I&rsquo;ve waited to feel this good about my country in the last four years. However, we must understand that this type of change isn&rsquo;t a one-off event; rather it&rsquo;s a continuous and, most times, a very tedious process.On August 8, we must vote for leaders not because of their money but based on what their policies are, and what that they mean for us. For those who&rsquo;ll give the electorate money or incentives, take it but remember it&rsquo;s a secret on the ballot. No gun barrels on your head: Just you and your future. Choose YOU. After four years of constant disappointment, we don&rsquo;t want anything else but a win for ourselves. Victory is a collective effort of determined and persistent people, who are in constant practice.Between now and Election Day we practice, learn and engage what it means for a &ldquo;people&rsquo;s win&rdquo; not &ldquo;individual wins&rdquo;. Step two. I need new people to lead not only because of the essence of their being new but mainly because of the possibilities they come with. There&rsquo;s always a certain type of hope that comes with new things, new ideas, new people or new places. This is what I want for all of us, a hopeful Kenya. Anything new is hopeful, anything hopeful is worth living for and anything worth living for is worth a chance.This is why step three of change is weighty since it puts the electorate in a space of testing their power by directly engaging power. Actively participating in the leadership beyond elections is a vital role for everyone. It&rsquo;ll be such a wonderful liberating feeling for ordinary Kenyans to be hopeful again. It&rsquo;ll be glorious to see political leaders who respect the choice of the people.We need leaders who understand that people must engage them as they lead without restraint or limitations. Leaders who know democracy cannot exist in silence but needs a voice and sometimes noise. I ask that this year we make noise with our votes, let&rsquo;s not tire, let&rsquo;s not leave anyone behind and let the hope of a better country get us to the finish line. Okore is the programme officer on Civic Engagement at Siasa Place