Many of us dream of bouncing out of bed and starting the day with a smile.But most of us have to make do with a rather more slow and groggy start to the day. Now dozens of 'morning people' have shared their tips on how to become an early riser, from improving your night-time routine to buying an alarm clock lamp - as well as more unorthodox methods like stashing a &pound;20 note in the oven.Set the timer so the oven comes to life when you're due to get up, and the thought of your cash burning to a crisp will have you out of bed in a flash, said the person behind the quirky tip. They shared their advice on Mumsnet after a user confessed she finds it "really hard to get up in the morning". She asked: "Please could you give me your tips on how to get up early in the morning (around 7ish, for example) but still feel well-rested and have a good night's sleep?"The post was soon met with dozens of helpful responses from other parents.Several said a fail-safe tip is to place your alarm out of arm's reach. One explained: "Phone other side of the room or on the landing and then once you get out of bed to turn it off straight into the bathroom and turn the light on. "This gets me bleary eyed to fully awake within a few minutes."Others relied on bright light to help get them going in the morning, with one posting: "Sleep with curtains open a bit and naturally wake up with the sun rising. Just get up for a while and before you know it you will be an early riser."Another said: "I swear by a Lumia sunrise alarm clock."The radio and a gradual alarm both proved popular options but others said not having an alarm set was the key to a peaceful morning. One user explained: "May sound bizarre, try not having an alarm. I haven't used one in years. Your body adjusts to waking at roughly the same time each day. Downside is weekends, but then you can always go back to sleep."A handful of playful parents also suggested children were the ultimate wake-up call. But perhaps the most creative idea came from one woman who put her money on the line when it came to waking up on time.One user wrote: "I have a friend who many years ago would put a &pound;20 note in the oven and set the oven timer for the time he needed to be up. Worked every time."