ADMINISTRATION Police officers undertaking Operation Linda Boni are suffering. They have not received a single cent from the allowances entitled to them for months now, yet their GSU and regular police colleagues in the same operation have been paid. The APs are also demoralised that their colleagues have died in the line of duty and no senior official has visited them. They are asking IG Joseph Boinnet (pictured) to come to their rescue. WHEN will Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i pounce on some head teachers who are still charging parents illegal levies? Well. A primary school on Kasarani-Mwiki road is fond of sending home pupils to collect outlawed levies unashamedly, even after the ministry released guidelines on chargeable fees in public schools. Despite protests from parents, pupils are released at around 8pm, long after official school hours, raising questions on the management&rsquo;s responsibility. Parents angered by the reckless trend have threatened to storm the school and seek answers &lsquo;violently&rsquo;, should the ministry fail to intervene. Interestingly, the office of the subcounty education officer is just a stone&rsquo;s throw away. AN independent MP candidate from a county in Nyanza is walking head held high after some ODM officials in the presidential campaign team backed his bid. The politician, who was facing the battle of his life from the ODM candidate, is said to have hosted two influential members of the campaign team at his Nairobi residence, where a deal was hammered out. While the campaigners have been cautious about making public pronouncements in favour of their &lsquo;sponsor&rsquo; for fear of a backlash, the details are said to have leaked to Orange House and could open a Pandora&rsquo;s box for more trouble in the coming days. A governor candidate from Gusii has been using uncouth means to endear himself to voters, including sheer blackmail against a senior ODM official from the region. The objective is to ride on the influence and popularity of the ODM operative in a certain clan. The candidate has been sponsoring fake stories quoting the ODM official as supportive of his candidature, a move that has set him against the party. IS an aspirant in Marsabit county sponsoring clashes to pit communities against one another ahead of August 8? Corridors has been informed that the ongoing killings are machinations by some elements meant to instil fear in voters who hold divergent political views. While politicians have feigned innocence, our mole tells us that a senior politician from the county is personally linked to the runaway murders to scare his opponents and ensure low voter turnout on August 8.