Meru Governor Peter Munya says DP William Ruto is using Senator Kiraitu Murungi to interfere with his 2022 presidential bid.Munya linked Ruto to political feuds in Meru, claiming he has been plotting to cut him down to size since he revealed his ambition for the top seat.But he noted: "Kiraitu is not that powerful. He is small..if he was alone in this I would have cut him down to size a long time ago."He spoke on Thursday when he led PNU in a vote-hunting rally in Muriri, Tigania East constituency.Read: I will not back down for Ruto in 2022, says MunyaAlso read: Kiraitu shrugs off Munya's 2022 presidential bidThe former Council of Governor&rsquo;s chairman further claimed the Deputy President has tried to block PNU party affairs.&ldquo;We filed a case court after police denied us access to our offices in Nairobi. A senior police officer, who blocked us, told the court powerful people were against us...he named Ruto," he claimed.Noting his party has 11 pending court cases, the county chief said there is an attempt to intimidate him into giving up his ambition.Munya expressed concerns about a return to the dark days when courts were used to advance political agenda."Why are did a court rule that our PNU aspirant for governor will not vie in the August election yet he won after a repeat following a court order to repeat the election?" he asked."Why was the nomination certificate cancelled yet our candidate Kithinji Kiragu and party officials were not called to court? [The officer] said this is to give Jubilee candidates an advantage because they know PNU is going to win the seat."He noted the people of Embu have a right to choose their leaders and that the court's mandate is only to decide who will be in the race.Read: Court cancels PNU candidate Kithinji Kiragu's nomination for Embu top seatThe Embu PNU governor candidate has received a big boost after independent candidates pledged to support and campaign for him.Read more: Embu independents pledge to back PNU governor hopeful'OFFICERS BEING MISUSED'The Governor further accused Ruto of using national government officers to intimidate him. The officers, he said, did not inform him of the change of venue for the June 1 Madaraka Day celebrations.Munya said they kept changing the venue until the last minute, but did not pin the "strange happenings" down to specific leaders.The celebrations were to take place in Kinoru but the venue was changed to Mikinduri, Gikumene, and finally Nkubu.&ldquo;Why were the celebrations kept a secret even from me, despite being the chief guest at the event? I heard the county commissioner sneaked to Nkubu,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;They took them to Mikinduri. When they heard I would go, they took off. They went to Gikumene and when they heard I was on my way, they took off to Nkubu."The CoG chairman further alleged political witch-hunt, saying his name was "sneaked into the EACC list" last week yet it did not appear in quarterly reports and those released two weeks ago."Why does my name there due to a Sh400,000 audit query that arose in 2013 over the servicing of my car at CMC? I had no official car at the moment and the transition authority authorised use of my personal car for official duties?" he posed."Nevertheless, I paid back the money but to date I have not been called to write a statement. My name has not appeared since 2013. Why is it coming up now?"Munya said it is questionable that Mutungi's name was not int he list yet he was allegedly involved in the Anglo Leasing, Triton and Ngamia 1 scandals.He said Ruto's name should have appeared as well because his integrity has been questioned.The Governor warned Ruto will negatively affect President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election bid by scuttling votes by fighting Meru leaders.MURUNGI DENIES HE IS RUTO PROJECTSpeaking separately, the Senator disputed Munya's claims, saying: "Everybody knows Kiraitu Murungi and even before Peter Munya joined politics I was there. So Munya cannot pretend to know me and give the people of Meru and Kenya my definitions."He added: "I am a man of peace, development, vision and ideas...I was part of the team that crafted vision 2030 for Kenya."The Senator further dismissed Munya's brand of politics as one that entails thuggery, violence and bankruptcy and said he will not be stopped."Munya is working with hooligans? The biggest problem Munya has is 'poverty of ideas'. Even his slogan 'Laingo' means 'cattle rustler'. I am sure Meru does not want a cattle rustler as a leader," he said.He noted he is a project of Meru and has been working with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto to make the county great."Munya believes he is a miracle that happened in Meru. He is a know-it-all. That's why he does not cooperate or work with other leaders...he does not have time for anybody, not even Uhuru and Ruto."He added the days of big-man politicans and top-down leadership were long gone and that it is time for humility and consultation.