Jacqueline Olweya UNDDG regional coordination adviser and head of secretariatJacqueline holds a PhD in economics and planning of education and has published several books and articles from a gender perspective on a wide range of topics, including education, HIV-Aids, governance, poverty and strategic planning.4.45AMAfter a silent prayer in bed (so as not to wake up my husband), my day starts at 4.45am, with a glass of warm water and lemon or apple cider vinegar with honey or plain warm water, rotating these every time. I then proceed to work out in the gym at home as my two children get ready for school. By 5.30am, when the children settle for their breakfast, I join them for a morning chit-chat, playing with them, tickling them and ensuring that they are neat: hair well done or brushed, break snack packed and books in bags. If need be, I sign any letters or their school diaries. At 5.45am, I kiss the children bye-bye and we say our &lsquo;I love yous&rsquo; as the bus picks them up for school. I then prepare for work.6:30 AMI am all set ready to start my day, with a glass of fresh vegetable juice &ndash; alternating between beetroot, spinach, kale &ndash; blended with cucumber, broccoli, ginger and a fruit (apple or pear), sometimes with a dash of mint or cinnamon. We then leave the house for work with my husband, who drops off in town as I proceed to the UN complex in Gigiri.8AMTraffic permitting, I get to the office by 8am. The first 10 minutes are spent reading my Luo Bible (Muma Maler, a gift I got from my father for my 30th birthday, and one that goes with me everywhere I go &ndash; from one duty station to another) and I say a prayer, seeking God&rsquo;s guidance in everything I will do, say or think on that day. I then proceed to go through my emails and take appropriate action, before proceeding to undertake other duties expected of me in my current post. I pride myself in responding to all emails (often in their hundreds in a day from all the 22 countries and over 20 UN agencies that comprise the regional United Nations Development Group, besides those from headquarters. Planning for and holding meetings are also part of my daily work, besides providing advice via Skype or teleconference to the countries under my jurisdiction.4.30PMAfter a full day&rsquo;s work, often having my homemade packed lunch on my desk as I work (very bad habit, I know), I leave the office around 4.30pm to pick up my husband from town and head home. After checking on the kids to know how their day was and if there is anything that warrants our attention, my husband and I go for our four to five mile walk (Monday to Thursday), except on days when he goes to the gym in town. Some one and a half hours later, I am back to the house. I shower, have dinner with the children, read the Bible and pray with them (each one of us taking turns), sing them lullabies that my mum used to sing for me and then I tuck them in bed, often starting with the youngest. Occasionally, when I am exhausted or under the weather, the kids tuck me in bed after singing for me the same lullabies. Then it is time to attend to my husband &ndash; serve him dinner and watch news together.Friday is mummy and daddy&rsquo;s day out. Daily routine remains the same, but we get to go out, often for drinks, and listen to rhumba music at our favourite spot (no mentioning names) before heading home.10.15PMI retire to bed at around 10.15pm (except on Fridays) after reading the Bible (this time in English &ndash; &lsquo;Bible for Women with Daily Topics&rsquo;). That is my daily weekday routine when I am in Nairobi (my duty station), but often, I am on duty travel to one of the 22 countries in Eastern and Southern Africa. During such times, my schedule is the same, except I don&rsquo;t get to play with the children in the morning and don&rsquo;t get to have my vegetable juice as the first meal of the day. When away from home, I often work late in the night and retire to bed after midnight, depending on the workload and preparations required for the next day.WEEKENDSSaturdaySaturday and Sunday are family days, with the former meant mainly for shopping for the household or children, visiting the larger family or friends, after breakfast prepared by the children. Or dropping off the children to school or for events, as need be.Sunday We go to church at Nairobi Chapel Karen, where my daughter and I serve in different ministries, until noon. We either order our lunch to be delivered at home or go out to one of our favourite restaurants for lunch, swimming and then back home by 6pm to get ready for the new week.