Has the NASA presidential communication team been beefed up by influential TV personalities? Well, Corridors is informed that opposition chief Raila Odinga’s communications brigade has received a boost from renowned industry figures that have provided a major makeover for the strategic office. Following the reentry of world-class political communication consultant Salim Lone and the hiring of communications expert Kathleen Openda, the NASA communications team appears to have caught Jubilee’s pants down. While Jubilee has been struggling to issue communications to the public - and often belatedly - the NASA team has been on point, releasing real-time updates to supporters and the media as well, in a spirited battle for the minds and hearts of 19 million voters. === What is wrong with the Kenyan police at times? This is the question Nairobians are asking after the police senselessly teargassed Bunge la Wananchi members debating around the Supreme Court in the Nairobi CBD. What happened to freedom of association and freedom of speech in Kenya? The police have more than once dispersed the members of BLW. Some lawyers were heard asking whether Kenya is becoming a police state. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet should reassure Kenyans that their fundamental freedoms would not be trampled on as Kenyans head to the polls. === The race for Kisii governor is shaping up into a bruising battle pitting the incumbent James Ongwae of ODM against his strongest opponent, Chris Obure of the ruling Jubilee Party. The launch of Ongwae’s reelection campaign on Tuesday left tongues wagging at the level of his preparedness to retain his seat. From the advertising of the event to the huge crowds that attended the rally at Tendere, in Bomachoge Chache, the governor shocked his opponents by how determined and willing he is to spend to retain his position. One of the governor aspirants who attended a live TV show later on Tuesday evening confirmed that Ongwae’s reelection machine is superior and will give his rivals a run for their money. === A Jubilee Party aspirant in Kericho county who is running for Parliament is a worried man. Reason? Word has spread like wild fire that he is is among the projects of a senior government official from the county. The man, who was initially popular before and immediately after the JP primaries, is now said to be worried by residents’ resolve to support an independent candidate. According to a source in the county, the man, who is associated with a former Cabinet Secretary who was sacked over corruption allegations in 2015, has been forced to go back to the drawing board to re-strategise.