IT is said politics is a dirty game where players can dupe anyone for selfish interests, only to dump them later. NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga&rsquo;s weekend warning in Busia to Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba (pictured) that Jubilee is duping him and he will be ditched could not be just out of the blue. Our mole tells Corridors that some top JP leaders know Namwamba&rsquo;s chances of retaining his seat in the NASA stronghold are unlikely. One of the leaders was even heard saying the former ODM secretary general should not expect a Cabinet Secretary position if he loses in August and fails to deliver some of the Luhya votes to Jubilee. IS it a case of freedom of speech or sour grapes? A flamboyant lawyer last week took to social media to ventilate. Sources say the good lawyer might have been frustrated after his request to be appointed chairman of the board of a banking oversight state corporation was turned down. Some say he failed the Chapter 6 of the Constitution test because of conflict of interest. Now it is feared that he isn&rsquo;t just exercising his freedom of expression, but is lashing out at the government. DID three NASA principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford K) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) let down their ardent supporters during their rally in Bungoma last week? Party officials in the county eagerly waited for their bosses to announce a decision on the issue of fielding one candidate for Bungoma Governor to ensure NASA candidates do not split the vote and give victory to incumbent Kenneth Lusaka of Jubilee. The officials expected the principals to agree with Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Wycliffe Wangamati, ANC&rsquo;s Stephen Mutoro and ODM&rsquo;s Alfred Khang&rsquo;ati to back one of them for the alliance ticket. FORGET the friendly fire in the open political arena. ODM&rsquo;s Orange House has turned into a war zone after members of the Secretariat, who were promised nomination slots, found out last week that they were shortchanged and the slots allocated to more politically connected individuals. The ODM headquarters along Menelik Road, Nairobi, was on political fire last week after a number of staff were bypassed, despite being assured that they would be given first priority as a reward for years of dedicated service to the party. An aggrieved, dejected member of the Secretariat even took to Facebook, cursing the party for betrayal and claiming those who have &lsquo;godfathers&rsquo; took what they have risked their lives for over the years, leaving them with nothing.