Opposition NASA will today camp in Trans Nzoia to campaign in a region considered a battleground just a week after President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto toured the county.This comes as independent candidates cautioned NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga that he risks losing the majority votes if he doesn&rsquo;t work with them during campaigns.Trans Nzoia has 112 independent candidates, compared to 74 vying through parties affiliated with NASA. Region independent candidates&rsquo; chairman Ken Wafula, eyeing the Senate seat, yesterday said, &ldquo;Raila and his team should know the independents are popular in most areas as compared to those vying on party tickets. He cannot ignore us at all, unless he is not interested in votes from this region.&rdquo;The NASA team will split into two groups during the campaign in Trans Nzoia. It will cover the entire Western Kenya through the weekend.One of the NASA teams will today campaign in Kiminini, Saboti and Endebess, while the second team will camp in Kwanza and Cheranganyi and KItale town, where they will meet for a major rally.Wafula said, &ldquo;If Raila chooses to sideline independents in Trans Nzoia he will lose close to 200,000 votes that are controlled by independent candidates. NASA should not ignore us. We are a powerful force here.&rdquo;He added that they want to meet with NASA to agree on campaign strategies that will boost the opposition ahead of the August 8 polls. Analysts project that independents in Trans Nzoia may win the Senate seat, two parliamentary seats and 15 MCA seats out of the 25.Governor Patrick Khaemba is defending his seat on the Ford Kenya ticket. He will host the NASA team in the region, where he faces a stiff challenge from two independent candidates and Jubilee candidate Kakai Bisau. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa is spearheading the Jubilee campaigns in the region. He says it is no longer a battleground because they have the upper hand over the opposition.&ldquo;We are now focussing on winning most seats in Trans Nzoia, starting with that of governor right to the MCA slots,&rdquo; he said.