It's been on everyone's lips this week and basically the talk of the town. If the tournament was in Nairobi, it probably would have been played at Nyayo Stadium, with thousands of fans thronging to see their favorite teams. How big is the SportPesa SuperCup? For starters, there's the coveted prize money. A cool $30,000 for the winner, $10,000 for the runner up, $5,000 for the semi-finalists and the quarter-finalists bag $2,500. The winning team shall not only be crowned champions of the Super Cup but will also proceed to play against a prolific English Premier League team.  The prize that awaits the #SportPesaSuperCup tournament champions. #TZvsKE  Twitter exploded once this tournament was announced with Kenyans and Tanzanians taunting and trolling each other. The media houses picked it up and had it for breakfast. Everton FC has even written about it on their website. This tournament is so big that even Wikipedia has it on file. That's a little special for inaugural football tournaments. this side of the Sahara. Safe to say that the once fiery football rivalry between Kenya and Tanzania has now been renewed. That's beside the point. Kenya must win this tournament with no excuses, whichever team does it. Teams from Kenya participating in this year's competition include Gor Mahia FC, AFC Leopards, Tusker FC and Nakuru AllStars. AFC Leopards beat Singida United 5-4 on penalties while Young Africans SC beat Tusker FC 4-2 on penalties. In the third quarter final, Gor Mahia beat Jang'ombe boys 2-0 while Nakuru All Stars FC defeated beat Simba Sc 5-4 on penalties. The star player of the tournament so far has been Meddie Kagere of Gor Mahia whose brace saw them through to the next round. Will he shine again when K’Ogalo meet Nakuru AllStars?  Meddie Kagere was the star player for Gor Mahia as his brace saw them through to the next round.  All eyes are on the semi-finals to be played on 8th June 2017 with AFC Leopards facing young Africans SC at 2PM followed by Gor Mahia vs Nakuru All Stars at 4.15PM  It will be an all-Kenyan affair when Gor Mahia take on Nakuru AllStars in an unexpected clash at the semi-finals.  Now, the odds are in favor of Kenya winning it with three teams in the semi-final. Pundits predict the favorite "Mashemeji" derby between AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia. However, Young Africans Sports Club, locally known in Tanzania as Yanga are no push over. The leopards will have to fight it out and play hard to prove their worth.   Yanga SC in training ahead of their match.  What's your prediction on the outcome?  About SportPesa Super Cup The inaugural SportPesa Super Cup is an annual eight-team knockout football tournament contested by professional football clubs under the sponsorship of online betting firm SportPesa. Participating teams hailing from Kenya, Tanzania, and Zanzibar compete against each other in the round of 8, from which 4 teams progress to the semi-finals round, and ultimately the tournament winner is selected from the final duel. 