The gravity with which President Uhuru treats Project SGR cannot be overemphasized. When the Madaraka Express hit the rail from Mombasa to Nairobi yesterday, the President was one of the passengers on the train that has replaced the Lunatic Express.The head of anyone interfering with the project on a vandalism/sabotage basis must be delivered to the President.Police have apprehended suspects behind vandalism of the railway&rsquo;s protective guard at Mtito Andei. Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko has, for once, promised speedy prosecution and guaranteed conviction! The President is eagerly awaiting the conviction and death sentences. He has promised to sign the death warrants to dispatch the vandals to their maker ASAP.It is doubtful whether the President obtained legal advice before going on air with this executive order. Perhaps he was advised that the sentences would be meted out. Either way, it is a matter of life and death to the offenders and a determined wish of the President.At present, the death sentence is only applicable to capital offences. A conviction for treason, murder or robbery with violence guarantees one a date with the hangman. Captain Hezekiah Ochuka and three of his co-conspirators accused of masterminding the 1982 coup attempt against Baba Moi were the last to be hanged in Kenya.The courts continue pronouncing the death sentence, mostly for murder and robbery with violence. But three presidents have not signed the death warrants and the prisoners die in prison, missing a date with the hangman. Some sentences are commuted to life imprisonment by the President. Uhuru has, so far, saved 2,747 of these inmates. With the President&rsquo;s latest decree, the hangman may well be soon in business after idling without work for 30 years.After Independence, the death sentence was abolished for robbery with violence. It was reintroduced in 1971 at the special request of Mzee Kenyatta. A story is told of determined young men who broke the fence of a ranch, not knowing that Mzee was the occupier. Mzee directed the AG to hang them. A message had to be passed that you cannot steal from Mzee and get away with it. Alarmed that the sentence was unavailable, Mzee directed the needful be done, ASAP. Parliament obliged &ndash; in a day.Meanwhile, rhe penalty for theft is a maximum of three years in prison. Damage to railways materials will confine one for three months or a fine of KSh200,000.