Opposition leader Raila Odinga has denied allegations by the Jubilee Party that he incited Kajiado residents during a rally.Raila, in a video purported to be from a Kajiado rally, asked the residents to protect their lands and not sell them to 'outsiders'.But the ODM leader said in Meru on Saturday that he did not propagate hate as claimed by his opponents in the August 8 contest."...hakuna mtu alisema watu warudi kwao... nilisema watu wamekuwa na umaskini...si ati mtu afukuzwe..afukuzwe aende wapi?"(No one asked any person or community to go back to their home. I said people are poor...not that we chase people...where do you want them to go?)In the video, the NASA flag bearer told Maasais to avoid selling their parcels of land as a means of getting out of poverty."We want to change the situation so that people don't sell their parcels. Keep your land with you so that you don't cry foul later on."The comments saw Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju write to NCIC asking them to probe Raila over the alleged remarks.Read: Probe Raila over 'hate' remarks, Jubilee asks NCICAlso read: Uhuru tells off Raila over talk of land invasionBut in a rally in Meru, Raila said Jubilee only wants to seize political capital by misinterpreting his message to the Maasais.He said the faction led by President Uhuru Kenyatta should realise it was time for them to leave office as NASA will beat them at the polls.This followed Uhuru's comments that the NASA presidential flag bearer is calling for violence."Watu wamechoka na Jubilee....wanapigiwa debe na wanaambiwa kwaheri kila mahali wanaenda," he said.(People are tired with Jubilee...they are heckled and being told 'goodbye' everywhere they go)Jubilee, kwaheri ya kuonana. Mungu awalinde na awaweke mahala pema peponi," he said.(Goodbye Jubilee...May God protect and let you rest in peace)The opposition leader drummed support for NASA saying they will offer free secondary education in September after winning the election.He took a swipe at the Jubilee team for failing to fulfill some of the key pledges they made during the 2013 general election."Hawa watu lazima waende nyumbani...hapa kwenu tuna dawa ya kutibu shida zenu zote...tukifika ikulu watoto watasoma bure kutoka Septemba," he said.(These people must go home...here, we have the medicine for Meru's problems...when we get to State House, children will learn from free from September)"...sisi tunasema na tunatenda...tulipokuwa na Kibaki tulisema tutaleta free primary, si ilikuja? ...this time round tutakuwa na free secondary education."(For us, what we promise has to be delivered. We promised free primary education with retired President Mwai Kibaki and brought it. Now, NASA will bring free secondary education)Raila said NASA will ensure the country is secure adding that their administration will not allow people to be killed because of land invasions.Ranches in parts of Laikipia county have been experiencing invasions, leading to violent confrontations between herders and owners.More on this: Sosian ranch closed indefinitely after continued raids in LaikipiaRead: Armed herders torch three houses at Sosian ranch, directors cry foul"Wakenya wanalia kila mahali. Bei ya unga imepanda. Kenya imegonjeka. Sisi kama NASA, tuko na dawa ya kutibu hiyo ugonjwa," Raila said.(Kenyans are crying about high cost of maize flour. The country is doing bad. We have the cure to the disease)Raila will face off with Uhuru in the polls which has also attracted six other presidential candidates.Also read: Residents 'happy' as Raila takes NASA campaigns to Tharaka Nithi