Nyeri county is ready to host President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto for he 54th Madaraka Day celebrations today.The county has started enjoying the benefits that comes with the big day as an international stadium has been erected in Kabiruini ASK Showground.Local artisans were hired to construct the main podium and the materials were being bought locally.Hotels have been doing booming business since last week. Bookings have been made ahead of today. More than 30,000 people are expected to attend the event.Traders and residents said they are happy that Nyeri is the third county to host national celebrations outside Nairobi.Other national events have been held in Machakos and Nakuru counties.&ldquo;I sell eggs in Nyeri town and I&rsquo;m hoping to make more profits on Madaraka Day. We are proud to host these celebrations,&rdquo; trader John Maina said.Resident Mary Nyaguthii said she and her family will be in Kabiruini by 6am today. It is not clear if opposition leaders led by NASA presidential torchbearer Raila Odinga will attend.Yesterday, workers at the venue were doing final touches at the stadium.After addressing Kenyans, the President will later be hosted for lunch at the county commissioner's residence near Nyeri town. Central regional commissioner Ann Ng&rsquo;etich said the celebrations venue will be opened at 5.30am today and entertainment will start from 7.30am.Guests should be seated by 9am. Guests will be guided by traffic police on which gates to use.She said Uhuru is expected to arrive at 10.55am. He will inspect a guard of honour mounted by the Kenya Defence Forces.&ldquo;There will be police patrols within Nyeri town and all towns in the entire region. I urge all Nyeri residents and guests to cooperate with security agencies and volunteer useful information to preempt any criminal activities,&rdquo; Ng'etich said.She said there will be performances by bands, choral, acrobatic and cultural groups as well as popular artists. &ldquo;There will be a magnificent march past by contingencies of uniformed service men and women and schoolchildren. This will be followed by a spectacular fly past by the Kenya Airforce,&rdquo; Ng'etich said.In the afternoon, there will be a football march by Gor Mahia FC Vs Nyeri Combined Team. Amputee&rsquo;s football match between the Nation team vs Madaraka team and women volleyball match between Nyeri Club vs Nyeri Polytechnic.