US-owned General Motors East Africa says it is ready to finally exit Kenya after 42 years after regulatory authorities approved the February 28 sale of its stake to Isuzu of Japan. The auto dealer, whose exit was earlier scheduled for April, said yesterday it has received all necessary approvals from the Competition Authority of Kenya and the 19-member Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa.This sets the stage for rebranding of the Mombasa Road-based firm to Isuzu East Africa which acquired GM East Africa&rsquo;s 57.7 per cent stake for an undisclosed value. &ldquo;We were waiting for two key approvals,&rdquo; GM East Africa managing director Rita Kavashe said yesterday. &ldquo;The Comesa approval just came in on Tuesday and now we have all the regulatory approvals from CAK and Comesa, and are soon going to start the process of name change and launch.&rdquo; Isuzu, which accounts for 95 per cent of GMEA regional sales in commercial trucks and buses, will take over from General Motors which founded the auto dealer in 1975 in partnership with the government. The new ownership structure will place Isuzu as the majority stakeholder alongside state-owned Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation with a 20 per cent holding, Centum Investments ( 17.8 per cent) and Japanese trading company Itochu Corporation (4.5 per cent). Data collated by the Kenya Motor Industry Association shows that the number of new cars sold in the month of May dipped marginally by 0.94 per cent to 946 units from 955 units in April. GM East Africa reported a drop in new car sales during the month at 20.83 per cent to 304 units from 384 units sold in April. The firm, however, retained its position as market leader with a 32.14 per cent market share. Kavashe yesterday projected an annual industry decline in sales due to the electioneering period, coupled with lower customer access to loans driven by the interest rate cap. She said that due to the business slowdown the industry may likely close at about 13,000 in sales, 3.95 per cent lower than 13,535 vehicles sold in 2016. &ldquo;This year is going to be challenging because we have elections and normally during an election cycle business tends to slow down a bit but we expect after October business will pick so we&rsquo;ll have a stronger quarter,&rdquo; Kavashe said. She spoke after GMEA and NIC Bank announced an asset financing partnership targeted at corporates, SMEs and individual customers. The product, dubbed the Election Package, will allow the auto dealer&rsquo;s clients access to finance through NIC Bank for commercial trucks at a 13 per cent interest rate payable over six years. &ldquo;Our partnership will see Isuzu customers receive one of the lowest interest rates at 13 per cent, the longest tenor of up to six years and a first ever 60-day grace period offer on their choice of Isuzu vehicles,&rdquo; NIC Bank group CEO John Gachora said.