When Raila Odinga attended Madaraka Day celebrations in Nyeri, contrary to most people&rsquo;s expectations, he was denied an opportunity to speak at the function. This left most people surprised and confused. When the leader of opposition is not allowed to address the people at a national day celebration event, is the government not suppressing the freedom of expression, or blocking some things from being said? Remember Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta were also leaders of opposition but were never subjected to similar disrespect at such functions. Nor is the excuse by Nyeri leaders acceptable when they say they agreed not to allow Raila to speak because they could not guess what he might say, never mind the fact that he has never spoken ill of anybody or disrespectfully in Nyeri. But if the Jubilee government will not stomach Raila's speech at a public function, it is also likely that they will not stomach his win come August.If there is fear that the government will not stomach Raila's victory, why should we proceed headlong into August 8 election, without guarantees signed by all parties that both the Jubilee Party and NASA will accept defeat whatever the outcome will be?Despite public assurances that parties will accept defeat if elections are free and fair, the commitment to accept defeat seems doubtful if you want to muzzle your opponent before election. Whatever the Constitution and the law say about need of candidates to accept defeat, dialogue before casting the ballot to extract greater commitment from all candidates and especially, those in government to accept defeat is necessary. Anything else is courting disaster, with the people who seem hell-bent to rig election. After all, it is common knowledge that party nominations were rigged by those who lack tolerance enough to acknowledge the presence of opposition leader at a state public function. How can such leaders be ready to accept defeat by the same opposition leader? Unfortunately from the list of those who have been cleared to vie despite their tarnished records, leaders who rigged elections and will not accept defeat will dominate the August 8 election. To have a free and fair election, the propensity not to accept defeat and to rig the election should be eliminated in a dialogue, through recognition that those we compete against in polls are not our enemies, and have as much right to win as we do. There are many candidates in this election, who are already convinced that their opponents have no right to win, and that their victory must be subverted and never accepted. It is, in deed, the beginning of the refusal to accept defeat when people treat their opponents with contempt and call them &ldquo;Kimundu&rdquo; to mean an ogre. The refusal to acknowledge and give Raila a chance to speak at the Madaraka Day celebrations in Nyeri was the beginning of signs of refusing to accept defeat, and should be countered before the election through dialogue, which should be commenced now before it gets too late. Most probably, the reason why Jubilee denied the NASA candidate a chance to greet the people of Nyeri an to address the nation from Kabiruini was fear that as the campaign period commences, Raila should not get an opportunity to get hearty applause in Central Kenya as was the case during the funeral of Governor Nderitu Gachagua. This could only be guaranteed by locking him out from the list of the speakers.Without any doubt, one way of defeating an opponent in an election is denying them an opportunity to express themselves, even as you maximise your own opportunities of self-expression. As the campaigns begin, we can expect to see more UhuRuto efforts to muzzle the opposition by cancelling meetings, or sabotaging media coverage of their events. Since the days of one-party rule, there are certain things that the ruling government has always done against the opposition. First, is denying it equal opportunities to express themselves while bombarding voters with their own propaganda. Second, even after restoration of multiparty democracy, they put every obstacle in the way of opposition to ensure they say nothing negative against government. As President Uhuru and his government were praising themselves to the skies for the SGR, they must have feared that if Raila spoke, maybe he would have repeated his criticism of the excessive costing of the project that would be difficult to defend or justify.Subsequently, the strategy of muzzling opposition has given government and ruling party a cleaner image than they have and victories they don&rsquo;t deserve.To have truly free and fair elections, efforts by government to rig election must be nipped in the bud.