If I were President Uhuru Kenyatta I wouldn’t read this because I’d be very afraid. Gloomy clouds are gathering. He need not look too far for the cause of his fear; the man who used to stand beside him doesn’t like standing behind the Commander-in-Chief. He is impatient. Deputy President William Ruto has stalked the President with devastating effect, cannibalising his Mt Kenya stronghold and cutting down his political “men” with the precision of a butcher. The whole Jubilee juggernaut isn’t made for reelection 2017; it has been remodelled at, Uhuru’s expense, for Ruto’s maiden run in 2022. It is not for nothing that NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoka gave Uhuru unsolicited ‘legal’ advice that Ruto is the reason he will lose in August. There is this Dark Horse aura clothed in perceptions of corruption that has refused to go away whenever Ruto’s name is mentioned. Where NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga would chide Ruto as the earthly prince of corruption, in his altercation over the same topic of graft the DP chose a nice one for Anne Waiguru - catwalk woman - before they made up recently. So Uhuru must feel the trepidation—a hollow gnawing in the stomach that accompanies premonition and a rush of panic sweat. And terrified he should be when the people of Isiolo county, for whom he has toiled ‘more than any other government’ before him, can only grant him a 10-minute rally before running him out of town. The problem is Uhuru makes it look like a favour when he talks to folks about the ‘development’ Jubilee ‘has brought’. Like the President, you can’t sleep easy wondering about August when thousands of youth, women and men of all ages in their ragged mitumba take a Sunday off to mount a 20km march in the capital walking, running and panting alongside their hero, who happens to be your crafty competitor. Of course trying to allegedly commit suicide like one Peter Gichira for being denied IEBC clearance is too base for a chic president; better smart political suicide in August. Listening to the President strain to be heard by the motley crowd outside the KICC, I was convinced he could have done a Justice and Equality Party flopped flagbearer Justus Juma stunt by deliberately forgetting that his proposer had never joined Jubilee after TNA wound-up. That would have been an honourable exit. He would then have told the rent-a-crowd how mollified he was that he couldn’t retrieve another proposer in time to beat the stringent IEBC replacement deadline and added chicly, “kwaheri ya kuonana, jameni”. Such a ruse would have dealt Raila a shocking blow, with the balance of presidential candidates uniting against him. Uhuru would have won through the surrogates he so proudly covets. Speaking of which, he must wonder why things are coming apart at the seams, especially when dregs from the opposition bleat tired out-of-context clichés like ‘a good idea must give way to a better idea’. It’s as if that dyed-in-wool trickster “mole” Ababu Namwamba was telling the President he is an old idea. Seeking a second term, I would be worried when, 70 days to Election Day, controversy dogged my pet projects. How do I stay sane when I wake up to headlines screaming ‘Delays jolt mega wind power project’, ‘Uhuru’s grand ride nears but no insurance cover for SGR wagons’: and, ‘Uganda, Tanzania sign deal for world’s longest heated pipeline’ (after they snubbed me), all in one morning, and still hope to win the 70.1 per cent votes the DP offloaded on me. Even as I struggle with the cudgels for a counter spin, online updates have me fixed with ‘Kenyans carry the burden of China’s high cost loans’ and ‘More GoK unga in shops tomorrow, Uhuru says after shelves go empty’. This unga thing is breeding dissent. How I wish I could handle it like my mentor used to, what with the new Constitution deleting detention without trial. I’d summarily deal with vagabonds spewing treasonable propaganda that ‘five prominent families are controlling the commodity and that the shortage is artificial’. This media! And to think I had them for breakfast! Surely someone is asleep on his job, and that can’t be me. 