IS Chief Justice David Maraga getting himself entangled in politics? Well, his statement yesterday that the Judiciary will not make decisions that will lead to postponement of the election rubbed some people up the wrong way. Some civil society activists were heard whispering that the statement appeared to interfere with the independent work of judges. This was just moments after NASA filed a petition to have the award of the Sh2.5 billion ballot paper printing tender terminated. According to the rights activists, Maraga should be careful, especially after Uhuru claimed he made him Chief Justice.===A senior female bank manager in one of the commercial banks based within the CBD is a worried person. The lady has been colluding with a section of City Hall officials in what borders on criminality. Our moles have informed Corridors that the manager has been blocking payments to contractors who are account holders in her bank, demanding a five per cent kickback. Several of the City Hall contractors now want the manager fired or transferred. They are said to have petitioned the bank&rsquo;s CEO to take action. The contractors are also said to have informed anti- corruption sleuths to raid her office.===THAT Deputy President William Ruto is hated and loved in equal measure is not in doubt. What is however emerging is the disdain for the DP by the powerful political elite in Mount Kenya. Some politicians were heard whispering that after 2107, Ruto atashangaa. The boiling tension between Ruto and Central Kenya politicians became clear when Peter Kenneth, running for Nairobi governor, for the first time this week opened up about his tribulations. Kenneth said Ruto rigged him out in the Jubilee primaries. It&rsquo;s whispered tens of mostly influential and moneyed politicians from the region are only waiting for Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection before unleashing their anti-DP arsenal.===CALL him the second term MP, as he fondly introduces himself during parliamentary meetings. South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya is not resting on his laurels even after finishing his illustrious political career in Parliament, spanning 11 years. He now wants to oust Kisii governor James Ongwae (ODM) through his Kenya National Congress Party. However, residents are asking if his political arithmetic adds up, given that he comes from the same constituency as front-runner senatorial aspirant Omingo Magara. In a county known to historically vote along clan lines, it would be interesting to see how Nyamweya&rsquo;s ambitions play out, especially with regard to county succession politics.