Jubilee and NASA politics took center stage on Saturday at the funeral of Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka’s uncle at Sipala village, Webuye East constituency. Leaders from the two camps led by NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula and Water CS Eugene Wamalwa led their brigades in popularising the two camps ahead of August polls. Wetang'ula, while addressing mourners at the funeral, lashed out at the Jubilee administration for taking the Mulembe people for a ride. He accused the state leaders of lying to residents that they have done much in the region adding that the "projects cannot be seen". Wetang'ula said western is fully in NASA because of the high cost of living. The senator said that Jubilee has been rushing to western commissioning projects which do not take off. The Ford Kenya party boss said most of the roads Jubilee have not been completed adding that others have stalled since they were commissioned. Wetangula said NASA will form a government that reflects the face of Kenya if it wins the polls. He said that Jubilee is scared after Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi joined Raila Odinga's camp. Raila is the NASA presidential flag bearer and will face off with incumbent Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party and six other contestants. "We cant compare development in Rift Valley and Central with what has been done in Western," Wetang'ula said. The senator also took issue over non-compensation of integrated IDPs who came from Mt Elgon, Kipkaren and Chwele. He said in Naivasha the IDPs got each Sh400,000 with half an acre of land while Uhuru went to Kisii and gave every IDP Sh40,000 each. Wamalwa, at the same funeral, rubbished off Wetangulas sentiments saying Jubilee has achieved a lot in the region. He said that Uhuru has been more mindful of the Mulembe region by reviving stalled factories and funding those at the verge of collapsing. "We have three main factories that are the pillar Western's economy courtesy of the national government," Wamalwa said. He said the Jubilee government has honored its 2013 pre-election promise to western residents. Wamalwa said that Uhuru will be in Webuye on Sunday to reopen a second production line at Pan Paper Mills. "He will also bring cash to Nzoia Sugar Company to stabilise the mill." Lusaka urged residents to vote for Uhuru's administration back to power for continuity of the good development track record. He said that people are going to vote for individuals and not parties. Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, Bungoma deputy governor Hillary Chongwony, governor hopeful Wycliffe Wangamati and women rep hopeful Catherine Wambilianga were present.