They've talked about losing their virginity, revealed the moment they caught their parents getting intimate and now the kids from Cut.com's latest series have been forced to hear sex advice - from their own mom or dad.The new clip, featuring several young people sitting across from their mother, father or both parents, is just the latest cringe-worthy video that sees the poor kids squirm as they hear their relatives talk about all things between the sheets.It all begins with the filmmakers instructing the younger interviewee to ask his or her parents for sex advice - with almost all requests being followed with a moment of awkward silence. "You don't want that. You don't want that information!" was the response from one father to his son.One son squints and squirms as his mother launches right into some sage advice, telling him to always "go slow" unless "passion is so at the forefront that you just can't hold back, and then that's fun too."Much of the advice is as PG as the parents can make it, including plenty of being-true-to-yourselfisms and balancing sex and love. "I'm older now. Our sex life doesn't exist," explains one mom. "Remember always to not put sex above heart and spirit."Another mom tells her daughter: "If you're in love, and you do it at the right time and with the right person, you can't go wrong."But one dad went absolutely whole hog on the idea. Not only offering up some proper sex advice for his son, but actually recommending something quite bizarre."You've got to put your foot in it," he says, leading to a quizzical expression and a "huh?" from his son. So, he elaborates."Lay the broad down. Boom. Butt naked," he says. "Do some more weird stuff, kiss and rub and all of that. Then stand over top of her, and put your foot in it. Wiggle your toes, okay? Now listen to what I'm trying to tell you son!"His son optimistically asks if the advice is simply a "metaphor for trying something new", but is instantly rebuffed. "If the broad lets her put your foot in her p***y, then she's the one! She's a keeper!" says dad, to his son's horror.