&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a man&rsquo;s world. A woman who wants to plunge into politics faces a lot of intimidation. Men rivals resort to name-calling, physical and emotional threats to scare them away. I&rsquo;ve been called a prostitute so many times, I have lost count. At first it really put me down, but now, I don&rsquo;t let my detractors bother me,&rdquo; says Ziwani-Kariokor MCA Millicent Mugadi.Millicent&rsquo;s plunge into the world of politics in 2013 from a career in the arts was anything but rosy. She says her rivals have used her past to try and block her future. Millicent was previously an actress and participated in the infamous Big Brother Africa series. This has given her opponents fodder to smear her campaigns back in 2013, and even now.Photos of her from shower scenes and in bikinis have been circulated and used to make voters believe she is a woman of loose morals.&ldquo;I am not ashamed of my past. That was a phase in my youth and if I had to do it all over again &ndash; I would. I represented my country &ndash; and very well, by the way &ndash; in the BBA contest. Youth is a time to enjoy yourself. I partied, had fame and lived a fantasy. Now I have reinvented and rebranded myself and moved to the next phase of my life. That&rsquo;s what life is about &ndash; growth. But my rivals, whom I won&rsquo;t mention because they don&rsquo;t deserve to get any airtime, want to use my past against me. I am not worried. I put God first and he fights my battles. I know I am a role model to many.&rdquo;Many women are not stoic enough to undergo the pressure that comes with intimidation and drop out of the race.In February, Vitimbi actress Nyasuguta was physically attacked by rivals&rsquo; goons when she declared interest in running for the Embakasi South MP seat. The attack slowed down her campaigns and she ended up losing during the primaries.Millicent says she is lucky to have a strong support system &ndash; friends who have offered to provide her security since the state does not offer it for MCAs.SURVIVED FATAL ACCIDENTIn April, she lost four members of her campaign in a grisly accident. Millicent and four members of her campaign team had completed their campaigns in Gilgil when they got involved in an accident.&ldquo;I&rsquo;d call it selfishness on the part of the car in front of us. My driver was trying to overtake and the motorist in front of us would not allow us to do so, even though he could see a truck was oncoming.&rdquo;Millicent is the only one who survived the accident. She was in ICU for four weeks and had surgery on her knee and arm. Metal plates were inserted.&ldquo;When I woke up and asked where my friends were, I was told they have all been buried. I am emotionally drained right now and being on bed rest, my campaigns have been reduced to phone campaigns. The rest of my team are trying to garner support for me on the ground. I even received my Jubilee certificate in hospital. I have cried a lot. The whole accident was like a horror movie.&rdquo;Millicent says her rivals have used the accident to campaign against her. &ldquo;They have called me a witch, saying I am part of a cult and sacrificed my team as part of a ritual to win the nomination. It is very frustrating. The problem with frustrating women is that frustrated women then give birth to frustrated children, and the cycle continues.&rdquo;Millicent says politics is not for women with a faint heart because there are people on all corners out to get them.&ldquo;Apart from men, women, too, can be their own worst enemies. Instead of building each other up, you will find they allow themselves to be used by men to tarnish their fellow women&rsquo;s name. In my case, there are women who have been hired by my rivals to spread lies about me and say I am a prostitute and other nasty things like that.&rdquo;Millicent also says some women she has mentored have turned against her and want what she has. &ldquo;I have helped a lot of people along the way and it is frustrating that the very people you help then become jealous and think they should have what you have. They start seeking your position and stab you. I just say to myself: oh is that what it is now &ndash; I have raised you up and now you come back to bite me? That&rsquo;s fine because at least I have woken you up. People need to understand that we all have different destinies.&rdquo;ADVICE TO THE YOUTHShe also says some family members backstabbed her.Millicent says she does not fight fire with fire. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t play dirty games in politics because it never works. What I do is put God first. I remain a beautiful person and surround myself with a strong support system.&rdquo;She advises other women vying for seats, or interested in joining politics in future, to get a mentor who has already been in the field for some years.&ldquo;[Nairobi woman representative Rachel] Shebesh has really been there for me. She taught me the ropes and encouraged me when I entered politics.&rdquo;She says she always notifies the police when she is going for campaigns for her safety.Millicent concludes by urging the youth to take their destiny into their own hands. &ldquo;I cannot do everything. In fact, the few projects I have started for people in my ward are from my salary. But I have seen many youths sit back and say the government should do this and that for me. No! Stop waiting for the government to do something for you and go out there and do something for yourself. Don&rsquo;t be afraid of failure. You might fail at something, but pick yourself up every time and try the second and third time, until you get there. Don&rsquo;t spend all your time on Facebook making [Mark] Zuckerberg richer. What the youth need is mental redemption.&rdquo;She urges women and youths to desire a better life for themselves. &ldquo;If you live in Mathare, start asking yourself what it would be like to live in Lavington or Runda. Walk around there and see how they live, network and fight for your space. For me, I am not bothered by tribal politics. I support whichever party is progressive. Because at the end of the day, I want a better life for myself. I want to afford that human hair and look nice. And that is why I am in Jubilee, because I feel President Uhuru Kenyatta believes in women and gives them a chance.&rdquo;Sidebar: Women politicians and leaders who have borne the brunt of personal attacks 1. Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a: The Thika Town MP was attacked during her campaigns in 2013 for being a single mother. But she stood up and said the electorate knew she was a single mother when they elected her.2. Anne Waiguru: When the NYS scandal broke out, former Devolution CS and Kirinyag'a governor nominee Anne Waiguru was attacked on a personal level. People started linking her to President Uhuru Kenyatta, and her children's lifestyles were put under scrutiny.3. Esther Passaris vs Miguna Miguna: During a live debate aired on the Jeff Koinange show on KTN last year, Miguna attacked Nairobi woman representative hopeful Passaris on a personal level. He said she was not beautiful and that &ldquo;everyone wants to rape you&rdquo;. The attack caused outrage on social media. Miguna also called Passaris a "socialite bimbo". Passaris said Miguna has no respect for women, "yet they make up about 50 per cent of voters".4. Rachel Shebesh: Last year, photos purportedly belonging to Nairobi woman representative Shebesh were leaked. The alleged photos showed the legislator in a compromising position.