The government formed an inter-agency working team last year to tame people who break the law online. The initiative is part of the security planning by the government to ensure law and order ahead of the August polls.We all know the effects of hate speech and relaying of false information. We are well prepared to ensure law and order countrywide all the time. Our traditional security agencies such as the Kenya National Police Service, National Intelligence Service and the courts are all on alert.They are working closely with the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, among others, to ensure the law is followed. They are among critical institutions when it comes to enforcing the electoral laws.We have a thin line on what is legal and illegal. Most politicians in this country try as much as possible not to follow the law. They work hard to break the law without being caught. We can call it political mischief. Most politicians will assemble tribal and cyber war armies for campaigns. Their roles should be to popularise their candidate and discredit their opponent. However, the advice they give to these armies and the facilities given to them are meant to do the opposite.They are well facilitated. Politicians will not directly get involved in the wars but they will facilitate them. And when we have a mass breaking of the law the enforcement becomes difficult. One way to avoid these challenges is to identify the offender on time and assemble the evidence in a way it can be presented to a court of law to earn a conviction. That is why we have an inter-agency working group in place.We still also have other challenges where the Judiciary has taken a long time to adjust to the modern way of doing things.For instance, the moment hate speech appears in the media and the perpetrator is identified, the natural consequences of those words are taken to be evidence. Remember what you prove in court is a guilty mind caught in a prohibited act. When action by the law is not swift or decisive, when the punishment is not deterrent or is easy, then it&rsquo;s a nightmare. There is no country in the world with the capacity to manage online battles. Even the US has not yet established whether Russia interfered with her last elections.Kiraithe is the Government Spokesman