After using up all the money she thought would be enough to build her home to the roof on the foundation alone, Edith Kaumbuthu decided to abandon her home ownership dream for a while.Edith, 54, says the &ldquo;peanuts&rdquo; she earned during her days as a teacher propelled her to build her own house to cut down costs.&ldquo;I used to earn about Sh2,400 as a high school teacher in the 1990s and I was often left penniless after paying the bills. My husband was not earning very much, either. At the time, our three sons were of schoolgoing age, so you can imagine the cost of raising them. We needed to cut down on our expenses.&rdquo;Edith took to stitching the boys&rsquo; uniforms and knitting to make some extra cash, but it was not much. It is at this point that Edith and her husband decided they needed to build their own house to stop paying rent.With this resolve, Edith and her husband bought a plot in Kahawa Sukari, Kiambu county, in 1994 for Sh30,000, and kept it idle as they figured out how to go about building the house with no experience.One day, Edith was around Kasarani and spotted a house she liked and decided to knock on the gate and ask the owners how they went about building the house.&ldquo;He was very helpful and referred us to a contractor and architect. We engaged the architect in 1996 and decided I would supervise the project, and I am glad I did. There are many contractors who collude with casual labourers to steal materials from clients and build structurally unsound houses.&rdquo;Edith started building, but the family&rsquo;s savings ran out at the foundation stage. &ldquo;We didn&rsquo;t even have Sh40 to buy the material needed to cover the foundation after completing it,&rdquo; Edith says. She decided to abandon the project for a year.Plot turned forest&ldquo;When we went to inspect the site in 1997, it was like a forest. It was around the time of El Nino. Even the foundation we had built was unidentifiable under the bush and I almost lost hope again, but I asked my neighbour to help me clear the bush and I would pay him when I got money. He agreed to do so because he understood where I was coming from. He too had abandoned his project after the expenses spiralled out of control,&rdquo; Edith says.Little by little, she started to buy building materials to start building her three-bedroom house until the roof stage, when all her money ran out again. Edith says she and her husband had already given their landlord notice that they were leaving, so they had to put up a temporary roof at their house, move in, and figure out how to complete it later.&ldquo;We only roofed the living room and kitchen so when we moved in, those are the only two rooms we lived in. There was no water &ndash; we had to buy water every other day and since the floor was not tiled, we had to pour water on it every Saturday to contain the dust. There was also no electricity and my boys had to rely on the car battery to act as a power connection. Then in the morning, because the battery had been used up, the car wouldn&rsquo;t start. We had to push the car to the hill and then let it go down in neutral.&rdquo;The house was completed in 1999. Changing careersIn 2003, Edith decided to take study leave to pursue psychology after she saw a gap in the counselling field. &ldquo;As a teacher of high school students, you realise they have very many issues and many times they do not have someone to confide in. I would get many students coming to me to seek solutions to their problems because apart from being a Kiswahili and history teacher, I was also the patron of the Christian Union. I found that I was ill-equipped to handle some of their issues, so I went to study for a Masters in counselling psychology at USIU,&rdquo; she says.Upon finishing her degree in 2005, Edith went back to teaching for six months but realised it would be hard to balance teaching and counselling, so she quit her job and got into full-time counselling, as she contemplated building a second house.Confidence to build moreDespite the ups and downs Edith went through when building her first house, she says she felt very satisfied once it was complete and that gave her the confidence to build another house, so she bought a plot nearby and started the process again.&ldquo;This time I was wiser. During the first project there was quite a bit of wastage because I was not sure which suppliers had the best materials for the best price. I also realised some casual labourers can be a headache. It is very important to be hands-on in building. If workers are not stealing your materials, they are wasting them. There are times I would have to hide in the bush and check what the workers are doing.&rdquo;Edith says one of her lowest moments was when she was laying the foundation for the second house and a gang of youths invaded the plot.&ldquo;More than 50 youths came into our plot after they saw us preparing to lay the foundation. In fact, we had already marked the plot but they came in with jembes and did not say a word. They spread themselves across the plot.&rdquo;Edith continued, &ldquo;Being the only woman there, I decided to leave and return the following day with my husband, but in the middle of the night, I got a call from our neighbours complaining about our labourers working late into the night. I was shocked the men had decided to allocate themselves portions in total disregard of the markings we had done and they dug trenches haphazardly. When my husband and I went to the site, we found the men had done a shoddy job and were demanding immediate payment. We ended up paying them for work we didn&rsquo;t contract them to do and we had to redo the foundation.&rdquo;Edith completed the second project &ndash; a six-bedroom, all ensuite house with a gym, study and servant&rsquo;s quarter in a year. She also did the landscaping of the quarter-acre plot herself.&lsquo;Passion drives me&rsquo;&ldquo;It all comes down to passion. I have an interest in building and that is what keeps me going. Many friends have built their own houses after seeing me build mine.&rdquo;When we ask how much she spent building the mansion, she says, &ldquo;A developer can never tell you such details, but just know it did not cost as much as it looks. It is doable.&rdquo;Edith has built another three town houses near the Thika By-pass, which she has rented out.She says she would like to venture into building flats, and even a mini-city. &ldquo;Why not? All things are possible.&rdquo;Edith has this to say to youths buying cars and thinking those are assets: &ldquo;Invest in building your own house. It may look like a huge undertaking, but look at me. I started with my savings as a teacher and put up my first house slowly and now I&rsquo;m a developer. Don&rsquo;t think too much about the whole project. Start where you are, start now. Even if you abandon the project for some time, it is not a perishable good, you can get back to it later.&rdquo;Steps to building your homeFrom propertyleo.com1. Choose a location you would like to build onThere are many factors to consider when choosing the location. While price may be the main factor, consider a place you would like to live in the long term. Understand the infrastructure and amenities in the area. Are there signs of growth?2. Prepare a cost breakdownGet an estimate of how much it&rsquo;ll cost to build your home. How will you finance the construction? Have you saved enough? 3. Consider hiring a contractorYou should consider hiring a contractor to help in the building process. There is a lot of work that goes into putting up a building. Clearing, grading, laying the foundation, etc. A contractor can fill in those gaps. Agree on the terms, project estimates (though it&rsquo;s very likely you will go at least a little bit above budget due to uncontrollable factors) and how much you will pay them. Set the dates for commencement.4. Designing your homeThis should be the most fun part. Imagine your new life in a new space. Research pre-drawn floor plans and designs for inspiration. You can search online or you find vendors on the street who are selling good designs for as low as Sh1,000.5. Getting the necessary permitsYou need to submit an architectural plan for approval and obtain provisional building permit from the county government. The application must contain the architectural drawings and plans, land title and a copy of main architect&rsquo;s licence. After submitting the plan, you can obtain the structural plan and incorporate your plans in it and get the final building permit. After construction, you need to request and receive on-site inspection. Get the occupancy certificate and you are ready to move in.Well-known players in the Kenyan real estate market1. Hass Consult &ndash; founded by Mohamed Hassanali, the firm has been around for more than a decade. The most familiar face in the business is Farhana Hassanali, the property development manager, who represents the company whenever they have media engagements and are launching new products. The company is known for high-end developments.2. Suraya Properties &ndash; founded by husband and wife power couple Sue and Peter Muraya, the two have developed a range of properties, from high-end properties to starter homes.3. Daniel Ojijo &ndash; He is the founder of Villa Care Ltd &ndash; a firm that offers property management and consultancy services.4. Mwenda Thuranira &ndash; the Mombasa businessman is the founder of MySpace Properties. The firm develops properties and offers other real estate services.