Deputy President William Ruto yesterday met Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and some Jubilee candidates in what appeared to be efforts to quell growing political tension over independent candidates, ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s visit.The private meeting in Eldoret town came after Ruto visited Nandi county. Sources said the meeting was brief. Ruto promised the leaders they would have a lengthy discussion with Uhuru.Mandago is leading a team of aspirants in Uasin Gishu that has threatened to ask Kalenjins to back NASA if the Kikuyu community supports businessman Bundotich Kiprop, also known as Buzeki, who wants to unseat him. Mandago is facing a tough battle from Buzeki in Uasin Gishu. His allies, including Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Oscar Sudi of Kapseret, want Ruto to ask Buzeki to step down.Uhuru and Ruto will be in the region for campaigns from today. &ldquo;When they come here, we will ask them to support the Jubilee candidates and not recognise the so-called independent candidates, who are Jubilee defectors,&rdquo; Keter said.Ruto has been perceived to be supporting Buzeki, but the businessman says he is his own man in the political arena, just like he has been in his successful business.Keter, Sudi and Nandi Jubilee governor candidate Stephen Sang, along with Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, were among those who attended the private session with Ruto.&ldquo;We just met him to prepare for the President&rsquo;s tour, although all issues came up at the meeting that lasted more than two hours,&rdquo; one MP said. The MP said Ruto did not give a concrete answer on all issues raised. The DP insisted that Uhuru had to be informed. One of the MPs referred to the issue of asking Buzeki to step down, but Ruto said the matter would be discussed at length later.Sources said during the meeting Ruto&rsquo;s aides made a call to Buzeki but it was not clear if the DP talked to the businessman. Buzeki denied having been approached to step down for Mandago and ruled out the possibility of doing so.Earlier in Nandi, Ruto said Jubilee would support the party&rsquo;s candidates elected during the primaries. &ldquo;The primaries were done in broad daylight, and in an open and transparent manner. We will work with the people you elected during nominations,&rdquo; Ruto said.