It was the mother of all cold shoulders,some might call it downright rude.President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto Thursday very conspicuously snubbed NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga.They used national Madaraka Day celebrations in Nyeri to campaign for reelection, enumerating the Jubilee government achievements for acrowd of 15,000.The two pointedly did not acknowledge the ODM leader who sat thoughtfully on the VIP dais. There was no eye contact or glance in his direction. Raila&rsquo;s name was not spoken. He was officially a non-person, despite his larger-than-life persona.Nor was Raila invited to speak at Kabiru-ini Grounds, though he was cheered by crowds outside when he arrived.Governor Samuel Wamathai, who invited Ruto to speak, did not acknowledge the opposition chief.The ruling Jubilee party&rsquo;s dramatically icy non-reception yesterday was a departure from protocol and the snub was criticised roundly on social media.Some called the head of state&rsquo;s behavior primitive and vindictive, especially toward the "next President". Others said protocol or no protocol, Raila deserved recognition. Some said the deep freeze was predictable and Raila had it coming.Read: Snubbing Raila in Nyeri was unfortunate, sadAlso read: What Uhuru is trying to hide is already in the public domainAt last year&rsquo;s Mashujaa Day celebrations in Machakos, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, now Raila&rsquo;s runningmate, was invited to address the nation. In March, Raila had been wildly cheered when he addressed mourners during the burial of Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua.On Thursday, Raila was ushered onto the main dais next to National Police Service chairman Johnstone Kavuludi.He sat pensively and keenly followed the proceedings before exiting with other VIPs when the function ended.Raila and Uhuru have been dialling up the rhetoric and mutual recrimination.Thursday was the first time their paths crossed since they were cleared to run by the electoral commission a few days ago.Uhuru told the opposition to accept defeat in August.Read: Ten highlights from Uhuru's final Madaraka Day speech before pollsThe Latest polls put the ODM leader&rsquo;s ratings at 42 per cent &mdash; just five points behind Uhuru&rsquo;s 47 per cent. Eight per cent said they were undecided. In a lengthy speech Thursday, Kenyatta, dwelt on Jubilee accomplishments, such as the Sh327 billion SGR, roads, electrification, free maternity care and so on. He said Jubilee will transform lives in a second term. He warned against violence.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t imagine that if the person you wanted [as President] lost, you should bring violence. No,&rdquo; Uhuru said. &ldquo;If you are beaten, wait for another chance.&rdquo; He went on, &ldquo;Security apparatus will remain vigilant, ready to deal with acts of lawlessness and disorder.All I ask of you is to reject politics of division and conflict and vote in peace. That way, no matter the outcome, we will all win.&rdquo;Exactly one year ago yesterday, the scions of the country&rsquo;s founding fathers engaged in an ugly confrontation over reconstituting the IEBC.In fact, Raila&rsquo;s now defunct Cord staged a parallel Madaraka Day rally at historic Uhuru Park Grounds, while the ruling camped in Nakuru.The country was tensed following weeks of anti-IEBC protest in which police at times opened fire on opposition demonstrators.At least four people were shot dead. In a strategic anti-opposition slogan, Uhuru yesterday said Kenya is &ldquo;45 million strong, united as one family&rdquo;.NASA says it is at least 10 million strong, referring to registered voters it says support the alliance. It says Uhuru and Jubilee will get a drubbing on August 8.Kenya has about 19 million registered voters.&ldquo;A transformed Kenya calls for a new politics. We need politics that look forward not back; we need to leave behind leaders obsessed with using the confl icts of the past to divide us, rather than leading us forward in unity,&rdquo; Uhuru said&ldquo;Let every Kenyan remember the history of our country, and what it has taught us of the dangers of divide and rule &mdash; of breaking the people apart, all for the gain of the few.&rdquo;Uhuru said Jubilee administration had laid the foundation for economic take-off . He called the SGR launch &ldquo;a true living symbol&rdquo; of Kenya&rsquo;s strides.The Chinese-financed, built and operated SGR was launched on Wednesday pomp and colour. Claims of corruption and infl ation by Sh100 million were briefl y put aside.Uhuru said his administration responded well to the food crisis through the unga subsidy cutting the price for a 2kg pack from Sh170 to Sh90, for the time being.He said with World Bank support, the government has established livestock insurance for pastoralist communities suff ering in the drought. It has subsidised some fertiliser, waived some debts and supported the coffee sector. Kenya is East Africa&rsquo;s biggest economy and one of the largest in Africa. Kenya anchors regional peace and security, he said.&ldquo;Our people must be secured against the threats from terrorists, politicians seeking to spark confrontation, and criminals. We have made far-reaching investments in our security system, increasing the numbers of personnel, adding sophisticated technology and stepping up our training and coordination,&rdquo; the President said.His government has connected more than two million homes to the electricity grid and connected 23,000 primary schools across the country to electricity, Kenyatta said.The administration has invested heavily in the health sector, sent modern equipment to hospitals nationwide and expanded NHIF to cover catastrophic illness.In a major appeal to voters, Uhuru promised that from January next year, the monthly stipend programme will cover all Kenyans age 70 and above. He also announced plans to extend the Thika Superhighway.The crowd cheered when Uhuru promised everyone living in Nyeri colonial-era villages will be settled in three weeks and awarded title deeds.Security was tight throughout the grounds. Anyone wearing clothes with political party colours or emblems were turned away.Residents were disappointed that there were only two Kenya Air Force fl y-bys but this this was explained as due to bad weather.