The Nyeri government has received pesticides valued at Sh3 million from the national government to fight armyworm.The 1,600 litres chemicals are meant to ensure farmers get rid of the stubborn and invasive pest. The destructive worm eats and destroys all crops in its path. Johnson Irungu, the director in charge of crop resources in the Ministry of Agriculture, said the national government has disbursed Sh325 million nationally to fight armyworm. He spoke after handing out the pesticides in Nyeri town on Friday. Irungu said the funds will prevent further destruction of crops, and will also be spent to train farmers.The official said Nakuru and Trans Nzoia counties are the most affected out of the 25 counties the armyworm has invaded.&ldquo;We advise farmers to be spraying their crops early in the morning or in the evening since the worms are very active during that time. During the day they hide,&rdquo; he said.Irungu urged farmers to spray their crops when armyworm are at larva stage, saying the pesticides will be more effective.Young caterpillars are more destructive, he said.Nyeri Agriculture executive Robert Thuo said the fall armyworm moths (spodoptera frugiperda) are in Nyeri South, Tetu and Nyeri Central subcounties. &ldquo;The department of agriculture through the extension staff and the county farmers are being sensitised on pest identification, monitoring and scouting of the pest, and on pest control using appropriate pesticides,&rdquo; Thuo said.He said farmers are being encouraged to consider crop diversification, and grow more traditional foods such as sweet potatoes and arrowroots.In Kenya, the pest was first detected in Trans Nzoia county in March this year on an off-season irrigated maize farm.&ldquo;The pest is spreading rapidly and has the potential to cause 100 per cent loss in a wide range of crops [maize, rice, millet, sorghum, wheat, cabbages, onions and bananas], thus a threat to food security and loss of income to the farmers and the nation at large,&rdquo; Thuo said. The armyworm invasion has spread to Baringo, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kericho, Kwale, Nakuru, Nandi, Taita Taveta and Uasin Gishu counties. The Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation director general, Dr Eliud Kireger, in April said rains could help reduce the infestation reported in 12 counties. He told the Star the deadly worms do not thrive in cold or rainy weather conditions.