National Super League side, Agro Chemicals FC have signed eight players to salvage the team from being relegated.Coach Paul Ogai said the seven players include three defenders, three midfielders and two attackers. He, however, did not reveal the names of the signed players. &ldquo;We are yet to finalise on the formalities while others have not cleared with their former teams. I will reveal the names once we complete the process,&rdquo; he said. Some of the players will make their debut today against Sportpesa Premier League outfit, Muhoroni Youth. He confirmed that the club has released Elvis Ronald, who joined Nzoia Sugar.&ldquo;We didn&rsquo;t want to overhaul the team and that is why we signed only seven players. This team has some very committed, consistent and disciplined players,&rdquo; he told the Star.He said his main target is to ensure the team is not relegated. The club is 16th on the log with 12 points from 16 matches having won only two and drew six.&ldquo;Our realistic target is to save the team from relegation at the moment. We are in a bad position and the second leg will be very tough with teams chasing promotion slots,&rdquo; added Ogai, who formerly coached Palos FC. At the same time, Palos FC defeated Bungoma Superstar 2-0 in a friendly match played at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Wednesday afternoon.Selemani Manjenga and David Amimo were on target for the Makini Schools&rsquo; sponsored side.Meanwhile, Palos FC are targeting to strengthen the team with five more signings, club chairman, Patrick Imbunga has announced.The chairman also confirmed that their top striker Morven Otinya has completed his transfer to Premier League side, Sofapaka FC.&ldquo;We would not stand in his way and as we speak, he has already signed for Sofapaka. He is a good player and we wish him well,&rdquo; hesaid.He, however, regretted the mid season move as the team targets promotion to the Premier League. Otinya played 47 games in total for Palos and scored a total of 27 goals in all competitions with 15 assists. This season, he had already scored nine goals and provided four assists. However, Imbunga said the coach Hesbon Nyabinge is in the process of identifying five new players to strengthen the team.&ldquo;The club management and the coach are in the process of signing the five players. We want to strengthen all departments from goal-keeping to forward,&rdquo; he added.