In the past six months, Kenyans have been caught in the middle of disputes between health workers and the national and county governments. Not once but twice. Both times, the disputes escalated from issues around CBAs.The first dispute led to a 100-day boycott by doctors, while the second one, the ongoing one, involves nurses. These disputes come hand-in-hand with pain and suffering for innocent Kenyans: Some patients have lost their lives, while others and their loved ones have suffered more than they ought to have. Frankly, our public healthcare system cannot weather these increasingly frequent disruptions of service provision without ill effects. Even without these recent disputes, our public healthcare system has been struggling to employ enough medical staff. The World Health Organisation classifies Kenya among countries with a critical shortage of healthcare workers. According to a 2013 Ministry of Health report titled &lsquo;Human Resources for Health (HRH) Assessment in Northern Kenya&rsquo;, this country has an average of 19 doctors and 166 nurses per 100,000 population, compared to WHO&rsquo;s recommended minimum staffing levels of 36 doctors and 356 nurses per 100,000 people.Medics &mdash; doctors, nurses, clinical officers and midwives &mdash; are some of the core building blocks of our health system. It is, therefore, important that we listen to them and have a conversation about their concerns. It is in the interest of every Kenyan, including those negotiating on behalf of the government, that the public health system works well. Who are better placed to help us improve it than those who work in it? An MP was recently reported in the media saying that if reelected, she will sponsor a bill in Parliament to outlaw industrial action by health workers. Such a bill will be contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution on labour relations. The Article guarantees every worker the right to engage in collective bargaining and take industrial action. Apart from being illegal, such a bill will be akin to cutting off our nose to spite our face. Our health workers may react by leaving public service and moving to private practice or worse, move to other countries to the detriment of Kenya&rsquo;s public health system. If they decided to emigrate, chances are that they will find opportunities elsewhere. In a report published in 2013 titled &lsquo;A universal truth: No health without a workforce&rsquo;, WHO warned of a global shortage of healthcare workers. The risk and cost of Kenyan health workers seeking greener pastures elsewhere was documented in a study published b in 2008 by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and the International Organisation on Migration, among other players. The study found that seven out of 10 health workers surveyed indicated an intention to emigrate because of, among other factors, poor remuneration and working conditions. Instead of threatening health workers to submission, a national conversation about the recent disputes with the medics would be a good place to start. Such a conversation may help us ensure all Kenyans have access to high quality medical services in public hospitals. Access to high quality medical attention is impossible without adequate and motivated staff. Access to quality and affordable healthcare is a right endowed on all Kenyans by the Constitution. The government must, therefore, do all it can to lead the process of turning this into reality. We must deal with staff welfare concerns that health workers have raised once and for all. If we are able to address these concerns, the results will be a well-motivated healthcare workforce that is more likely to provide high quality services for the benefit of Kenyans.Staff welfare concerns raised by health workers will no doubt cost a lot of money, but that cost can be viewed as an investment made for Kenyans. For both the doctors and nurses&rsquo; boycotts, the sticking point was, and still is, where to get the funds to pay them. That national conversation can also help us crack this difficult question. These disputes point to the need for a national conversation about the cause of disputes between the government and health workers&rsquo; unions, and how to permanently solve these disputes. The writer is Kenya country director, Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevoelkerung