A political wind of change is rapidly sweeping across the Coast region: People are increasingly questioning the merit of voting political parties rather than individuals based on character and leadership qualities in the August 8 General Election.It should be recalled that in the 2013 General Election, the Coast overwhelmingly voted for ODM as a party in what came to be known as the six-piece voting pattern. At that time, ODM/Cord captured the majority of the six elective positions of President, governors, senators, woman reps, as well as Members of the National and County assemblies in what translated into an ODM wave in the Coast. In these four years of devolution, the Coast voter&rsquo;s attitude is changing. Voters are rejecting calls by the major parties, in particular ODM and Jubilee Party, to vote six-piece suit. The voters have felt cheated by the parties they voted for in 2013, and the leaders they generated. In effect, the six-piece voting pattern has failed the Coast voter. Add this to the lack of party ideologies and also ethnicity as a factor and the problem gets further compounded.Coast voters are protesting in part because some of the worst performing elected leaders hid under the popular wings of political parties &mdash; ODM or Jubilee. In hindsight, they have proven to be not leaders but fortune seekers. They have let down their parties and the people who voted them through these parties.This is why the Coast voter is protesting this six-piece voting option. It has had no impact upon their lives four years down memory lane. They have felt cheated.For ODM leaders, the anger and criticisms against the six-piece voting threatens its unity and superiority as the party of choice in the Coast region. It also threatens the viability of NASA in the Coast. Early this month, at an Iftar event in Mombasa, Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka openly differed with ODM chief Raila Odinga over this issue. Kalonzo preferred support for all NASA candidates across the board. Raila, on his part, objected and asked the Coast people to vote for ODM candidates. In public rallies, six-piece voting has become the Hallelujah chorus of ODM leaders and their supporters. In these rallies, NASA unity has played second fiddle. If NASA unity is wobbling in the Coast, Jubilee is reaping from this invisible fallout. JP leaders, among them President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, have been routine political visitors to the region. The overall goal is to win votes and reverse the ODM wave. Reactions to these visits have been mixed. Overall, the visits have increased Jubilee Party&rsquo;s visibility in the region and threaten to upset opposition gains on August 8.Jubilee is also playing another card to win the Coast. It concurs with the overwhelming prevailing view that people may vote individuals, not necessarily parties. This view gives a chance to individuals linked to JP to get elected, irrespective of party affiliations. As of now, NASA is greatly disadvantaged in Coast politics. In fact, ODM is NASA and NASA is ODM. Consider this: Only two of the NASA leaders &mdash; Raila and Kalonzo &mdash; have been visible actors in the Coast political scene. They have severally visited and cheered their candidates and supporters. Not so with the other NASA partners such as Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and, to some extent, Musalia Mudavadi. The former two have remained in the shadows. Their candidates and supporters have remained political orphans.Put another way, the scramble for party votes in the Coast has been reduced to a two-horse race &mdash; between ODM and Jubilee, with Wiper crouching in third place on the horizon. But it is ODM that holds the key to the outcome of the August 8 election. Either it retains its wave or it relinquishes it to newcomers such as JP and the other parties. Still, the determining factor remains whether or not Coast people should vote six-piece. Failure by ODM leaders to convince protesting voters to vote six-piece shall have multiple impacts on the party. The ODM wave will be reversed and the party shall lose its grip and influence on the Coast region. Ultimately, it may as well affect the political ambitions of Coast politicians such as Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who has expressed interest to vie for President in 2022 and beyond.