President Uhuru Kenyatta is a political tourist boasting about projects his administration did not initiate, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has reiterated.Joho issued the remarks in Mariakani on Thursday concerning the President's frequent visits to the region.Two of the functions did not go well for Joho as police blocked him from attending. These were the Mtongwe ferry services relaunch and the launch of Standard Gauge Railway services.More on this: Joho barred from Uhuru's SGR launch in MiritiniAlso read: Blocking Joho from SGR launch totally unacceptable - RailaAt today's NASA rally, which flag bearer and ODM leader Raila Odinga attended, the fiery county chief accused Jubilee of sabotaging the Coast's economy.&ldquo;When Uhuru visits, let him know that he is coming as a tourist. He has a lot of money for you to take. Take the money and vote Jubilee out," he said."When you marry a lady who has a child from a previous relationship, accept that you are a step father because you did not sire that child. Jubilee should accept that SGR and Mariakani&ndash;-Mavueni road they are boasting of is not their &lsquo;child&rsquo;. Jubilee has frustrated the region...it is time for them to pack and go."The Governor reiterated that the new railway will do more harm than good.&ldquo;The SGR will kill some businesses because these trucks you see park in Mariakani to repair tyres and buy a few things. Jubilee claims it cannot carry the Port of Mombasa to Naivasha. What they are doing is taking the services of the port to Naivasha so the port will be just a route. We will only remain with the ocean."More on this: [STATEMENT] SGR 'bitter pill to swallow' for Coast residents - JohoNASA leaders are in the region to popularise the coalition in their bid to oust President Kenyatta.The principals are Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper, DP candidate), Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya).ODM leader and NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga dances with other leaders during NASA's rally in Mariakani, Mombasa, June 8, 2017. /ELIAS YAARaila urged residents to vote for the National Super Alliance to liberate the country from the Jubilee leadership.He attacked the government for stage managing the maize crisis in the country.&ldquo;They promised us subsidised maize flour but Kenyans are not getting the product in shops. We must say enough is enough...in August Uhuru must go home with his team. We must restore diginity in this country."Those who accompanied Raila included Siaya Senator James Orengo, Suba South MP John Mbadi, Suna East's Junet Mohamed and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. Others were Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, Mombasa woman representative Mishi Mboko, Nominated Senator Agnes Zani and Kilifi woman MP Asha Jumwa.The toured Mariakani, Kaloleni, Rabai and Mazeras.