Chinese companies, which control half of the country&rsquo;s infrastructure projects, employ about 95 per cent of the workforce on part-time basis with only five per cent on full-time engagement, a new survey suggested yesterday. The 2017 Chinese Enterprises in Kenya Social Responsibility Report indicate 87 per cent of those employed are locals, while the remainder 13 per cent are Chinese who largely hold managerial positions. According to a 2016 Word Bank report titled Deal or No Deal: Strictly Business for China in Kenya? a Chinese company in the country employ 360 locals on average which is more than an average of 147 by other foreign firms.&ldquo;All Chinese companies are also creating win-win outcomes by transferring technology, contributing to communities and cooperating with local government,&rdquo; China&rsquo;s ambassador to Kenya Liu Xianfa said during the launch of the report in Nairobi. The Economic and Commercial Counsellor at the Chinese Embassy in Kenya Guo Ce said Chinese companies are contracted to undertake at least 50 per cent of infrastructure projects in the country. The firms spend approximately $20million ( Sh2.07 billion) on Corporate Social Responsibility projects annually, secretary-general of Kenya China Economic and Trade Association,which commissioned the survey, said. Su Tianshu told the Star on the sidelines of the report launch that the combined value of CSR projects by Chinese firms in Kenya is estimated at $7 billion (Sh72.54 billion). &ldquo;Kenya has unique resources and is very hospitable, we have confidence in the growth of its industries and there is need to invest not only in the infrastructural development, but also human development,&rdquo; Tianshu said. He said that Chinese firms have now set their sights on tourism and hospitality industry, and are expected to complete the construction of Avic Complex, their first major entry project in the hospitality industry by 2020.The complex, valued at Sh9.6 billion, will comprise of an office, a 39-floor hotel tower and four luxury apartment blocks.The survey highlights the impact that the business activities of 73 73 Chinese corporate members of KCETA and their subsidiaries on local economy for the year 2016.These include giving back to society, ensuring business ethics and integrity and integrating responsible practices into business operations. &ldquo;Creating employment opportunities is one aspect of upholding CSR,&rdquo; Xianfa said. &ldquo;In its daily work, the association not only actively assist members to become familiar with the domestic market and to communicate better with local communities, it also vigorously promotes best practices for high standards of behaviour and socially responsible operations.&rdquo; Some of the projects include a wildlife conservation campaign, where the association gave Sh1.1 million to Mount Kenya Wildlife Conservancy and Sh3.83 million to the Kenya Wildlife Service. They have also built the MCEDO Beijing School in Mathare slums at a cost of Sh5.99 million to help address access to quality education.Chinese companies in the country spend approximately $20million ( Sh2.07 billion) on Corporate Social Responsibility business projects annually, a senior official from the Kenya China Economic and Trade Association has said.