We are going into one of the biggest elections on the African continent. Well over 15,000 candidates have been cleared to contest for just fewer than 2,000 seats. Tension is high on both sides of the political divide and everyone is keen not to lose and suffer the &lsquo;pain&rsquo; of reading the concession speech. The opposition has Raila Odinga whose political (biological) clock is ticking fast, and may only have this as his last chance to lead Kenya. For Jubilee, they have President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has once before lost to a coalition spearheaded by Raila. Memories of Uhuru&rsquo;s 2002 concession speech with William Ruto by his side are still fresh in the minds of many Kenyans. The pain of reading that speech has led to a somewhat unintended consequence &mdash; over-campaign.LONG MARCH CAMPAIGNSCampaigns in Kenya typically start soon after an election is over. We also have &lsquo;Long March&rsquo; campaigns, with some eyeing election seats in 2022 an even 2027. Such campaigns are typically the signs of our addiction to campaigns or, better still, our tendency to over-campaign. Political campaigning is the organised effort to woo voters, and should be done largely along the lines of ideas, policy and promises of actions that will improve the lives of the people once elected to office. It should appeal to the mind and our intellect but instead, Kenyan politicians are appealing to emotions, to ego and to chauvinistic fervour around their candidacy or community. In a nation like ours that has distinct tribal, racial, religious, and social divisions, it is easy to widen such divisions with an appeal to emotions (most notably fear), ahead of the vote.POLITICAL RED OCEANSOver-campaigning happens when political leaders work in a frenzy to ensure that they are elected by any means necessary. In the process they create a political &lsquo;red ocean&rsquo;, the result of intense competition for office. They will make hitting statements that won&rsquo;t be ignored by the media and their opponents will make counter- statements which constantly fight to dominate the headlines. They will go to great lengths to ensure that their opponents are painted in bad light, and poke holes in their actions, speeches, agenda or lack thereof. Misinformation and post-truths are very much a part of over-campaigning, and usually by the time you go around to find out the truth, the damage is already done.THE CONVERSE OF OVER-CAMPAIGNBritish Prime Minister Theresa May was recently humiliated at the snap polls in what can be described as under-campaign. She spent little, talked little and in that, sounded unconvincing and totally unqualified. The end of it was a massive loss of power for the Tories and the UK will be negotiating Brexit from a weak position. Indeed, there are several presidential candidates in this country who are massively under-campaiging, obviously constrained by lack of resources and they know what awaits them. The Jubilee and NASA presidential candidates are, however, on an over-campaign streak, and if the past is anything to go by, they have set us on a very dangerous path.THREAT TO DEMOCRACYSigns of over-campaigning include overspending, and there&rsquo;s already enough evidence of that in this election. Candidates with limited means have incurred hefty losses so far, and the smart ones are turning to the electorate to fund them. Cash overspend is a major threat to democracy as indeed it is known to fuel corruption and theft of public funds. Over-campaign will lead to promises that will never be fulfilled as, indeed, Jubilee is yet to fulfill their erstwhile promises and are already making new ones. This results in disillusionment with the democratic process, voter fatigue and low voter turnout in subsequent elections.RESOURCE MOTIVES IN OVER-CAMPAIGNOver-campaigning is driven by the dire need to access and control resources in the public office one desires to be in. For an economy as ours, interest in the political process will always be great. There is, therefore, perhaps greater incidence of over-campaign for the governor and presidential races since the office holder commands greater resources than, say, the position of Woman rep. Over-campaign can be driven by historical rivalries and ethnic aphorisms as &lsquo;its our turn to eat&rsquo;. It distorts national planning as new projects are promised at the roadside, with scant regard for sources of funding, viability or sustainability. In the end, over-campaign will hurt the economy by distorting spending patterns and fuel inflation. It increases the incidences of corruption and will lead to lawlessness and general insecurity.UNRAVELING THE NATIONAL FABRICOver-campaign destroys national cohesion before and after the elections. Feelings of betrayal by this or that community that voted contrary to our expectations only destroy the national fabric, and lead to post-election conflict. In all, over-campaign leads to loss of confidence in the electoral process and more so, in institutions monitoring elections. NASA has been hammering the IEBC over many things &mdash; from the procurement of ballot papers to vote tallying &mdash; with utterances that undermine the general preparedness for the election. Whatever the outcome, they already have lots of grounds for contesting the poll &mdash; either in the courts of law or in the court of public opinion. Perhaps of greater concern to us is that over-campaign threatens democracy by heightening expectations of either camp, which will only (or most likely) end up in open conflict if they don&rsquo;t have their way. CLIPPING OVER-CAMPAIGNINGAttempts have been made to clip over-campaigning in Kenya with caps on spending being proposed in law. MPs, however, shot that down but some of them probably wish it were in place as many of them have spent the very last coin defending their seats, while more moneyed outsiders painted the ground red with cash. We must reduce the corruption that funds over-campaigning. Also of necessity, we must move the economy towards full employment, which will reduce the attractiveness of public office and, at the same time, reduce the crowds that turn up for these rallies. Caps on the perks of office holders should be made, including controlling their access to public resources. We must come up with strict time-period windows for campaigns to prevent over-campaign and limit cash donations to a workable maximum. Perhaps we should also introduce joint hustings in county and National Assembly seats, where two or more opponents stand on the same platform and sell their policies. For this to work, the political temperatures must be severely cooled and let everyone sell their agenda and let the people decide. Finally, over-campaigning ends up hurting everyone. The campaigner and the electorate alike will suffer post-election burnout and hangovers. And like good alcoholics, we believe that the cure for a hangover is another bottle. And the campaigning starts all over again!