Kenya Simbas will be seeking to bounce back from their narrow one-point loss to Germany when they face rivals Uganda in an Elgon Cup first leg clash at Legends Club, Kampala.The Simbas have had a good record against the Ugandans in the past two seasons but history will count for nothing in this eagerly anticipated encounter. Kenya won 48-10 and 48 -25 last year in Kampala and Nairobi respectively to secure the title and bag Africa Cup points.Heed coach Jerome Paarwater has recalled KCB skipper and prop Curtis Lilako alongside Impala&rsquo;s James Kubasu with Newcastle Falcons&rsquo; number 8 and enforcer Joshua Chisanga set to beef up the pack which was outplayed by the Germans a fortnight ago. &ldquo;We had issues at scrum-time against the Germans and we need to tighten up that area against a physical Ugandan outfit who are good scrummagers,&rdquo; said Paarwater.Paarwater said they also have to be clinical in the opposition 22 and avoid lapses of concentration which cost them dearly against the Germans.&ldquo;We need to execute better in attack. In the match against Germany, we probably should have had two more tries. Our defensive alignment and line speed must be better,&rdquo; he added.Paarwater will start with Lilako, Peter Kaaria and Moses Amusala in the frontrow with Oliver Mangeni and Simon Muniafu at lock.Eric Kerre, Davis Chenge and Chisanga will start in the backrow in a formidable forward pack whose goal will be to win the collisions and lay the platform for the backs.In the backs, Samson Onsomu starts at scrumhalf alongside Isaac Adimo with the trusted midfield pairing of David Ambunya and Patrice Agunda . Skipper Darwin Mukidza starts on the wing alongside Jacob Ojee with Tony Onyango at fullbackOn their part the Ugandans are relishing the challenge of facing Kenya on home soil. Head coach John Duncan said it will be grudge match after being thrashed last year. &ldquo;We are going for a win. We are well prepared and the boys are highly motivated,&rdquo; said Duncan.Duncan has handed out six debuts to Robert Aziku, Musa Muwonge, Adinan Mutebi, Ivan Kirabo, Aaron Ofoyrwoth and Eric Mula.Key players for the Ugandans include star winger Justin Kimono, back after two-year injury hiatus, Kabras fullback Phillip Wokorach and burly prop Brian Odongo. The return leg match will be played on June 24 in Nairobi.