NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has said the alliance will borrow Tanzania President John Magufuli&rsquo;s leadership style of zero tolerance to corruption.Raila said his administration will break corrupt cartels that surround President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy President William Ruto. Raila warned Jubilee to brace itself for a battle similar to that between a baboon and a dog.&ldquo;We will sack all the corrupt individuals in Jubilee government that have sunk this economy to its lowest ebb,&rdquo; he said.Raila spoke on Monday when he made several stops in Siaya county. He took the six-piece campaign to the region, which seems to work against independent candidates. In Ugenya, he campaigned against MP Dave Ochieng, who decamped from ODM and joined the MDG party after crying foul on the party management affairs. At Aram market in Rarieda constituency, several youths were arrested after a fight broke out between supporters of Nicholas Gumbo and Governor Cornel Rasanga.Gumbo will run as an independent candidate to try to unseat Rasanga, who won the ODM nominations. In Gem, MP Jakoyo Midiwo was spared from the wrath by Raila who opted to steer off confrontational politics against him. Midiwo lost the nominations and has since rebelled against ODM.Speaking in Nyangweso, Raila said Midiwo is his younger brother and would not wish to confront him. He asked Midiwo to reconsider his stand and rejoin ODM, saying when NASA forms the next government, he will be considered for a position.ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi asked disgruntled leaders who lost in the primaries to swallow their pride and support the six-piece voting pattern for the sake of Raila&rsquo;s presidency bid. &rdquo;If I decided to shelve my presidential ambitions, including Kalonzo Musyoka, to support Raila, why not you?&rdquo; Mudavadi said.Nominated MP Oburu Oginga struck a reconciliatory tone, saying together with Raila, they had no problem with Midiwo, their cousin. Oburu extended an olive branch to Midiwo, saying all is not lost since NASA government will consider rewarding him.