With less than two weeks before the Kenya Swimming Federation SGM is held, current KSF vice chairman Patrick Muya has suspended the transition advisory committee with immediate under unclear circumstances.Muya who also served as the first chairman of TAC has resigned from the committee.In a letter addressed to all stakeholders, Muya accused Conrad Thorpe led-committee of overstepping their mandate.Muya has accused Thorpe of establishing himself as the KSF chairman and attempts to take over the Federation with members of TAC.According to Muya, efforts to reach Thorpe and his team to explain why they are overstepping their mandate have been futile.He has further accused the TAC team of planning to hold SGM without notifying anyone or consulting KSF which is against the law. Muya is reported to have submitted one-sentence resignation letter to TAC team which was rejected by Thorpe until key issues requested by TAC are addressed.In a letter addressed to Muya by Thorpe, the team has requested Muya to ensure they are provided with all audited accounts. According to one parent, the move to request for the audited accounts is one of the reasons Muya has decided to suspend the committee he has worked with since January.Questions have been raised as to why he had to wait until now to suspend the committee. According to section of parents from the swimming fraternity, Muya who is also the chairman of the Nairobi Swimmers Association sensed defeat in the upcoming elections hence the reason to disrupt the work of TAC. During next week&rsquo;s SGM, stake holders were set to adopt the new constitution as well as approve July 29th as date for fresh elections.Muya also resigned from the Joint select committee for selecting swimmers for international competitions under unclear circumstances and source close to the team claim it was a blessing in disguise as he was not cooperative.It is believed, the Muya team is not happy with TAC after they realised they&rsquo;ve been in constant touch with world body FINA. Thorpe who is a former swimmer has been in constant communication with FINA and the world body recognizes TAC since it started working with KSF. According to a source close to TAC, FINA ha revealed some information to the team which parents were not aware of.It is also through this communications that TAC realized Kenya was on the verge of being suspended by FINA since they had not paid to the body affiliation fee of $220 since January. Later it was claimed the fee had been paid by one of the officials from his own pockets since KSF had no money.In another twist, KSF were also not happy after they were locked out of the team travelling to Budapest for the World long course swimming championship. This was after they found out FINA was planning to give each Federation $4000 for FINA aquatic day in every country.The TAC committee was established to help in transition of the swimming Federation before fresh elections are held. This was after the then chairman Ben Ekumbo resigned from the Federation.The move to suspended TAC has been by criticism from section of parents who have vowed to fight until the Federation is reformed. There is an issue of another section of parents who are in bed with current KSF officials and have been fighting the TAC committee too.