With T minus 52 days to election, politicians are the only Kenyans smiling as they beat laps all over the country, while taxpayers wamesota searching for unga!!! My house manager Evelyn and Beatrice are threatening to quit if I don&rsquo;t provide ugali... The search for Kenya&rsquo;s most-priced commodity is real!!! Even waiters and waitresses are not serving with their usual smile. At first I thought it was because my tip was kidogo, kumbe shida ni Ungaree!!! We need an app called "Ungafied" that lets you know where you can find unga.... Unga is the fuel of the nation. Very soon, all watchies will go on a go-slow. So someone please tell Ohuru Kenyatta Kenyans need Ugalireee... NURSING CAMPAIGN FEVERTalking of the President, Ohuru has not slept in his bed at State House Nairobi for three days straight the past three weeks!!! The last time he was in the capital was during his two-hour fundraiser dinner, where in two hours he managed to raise just about 1 billion bob... The only Kenyans enjoying even with the unga problems are boda boda operators, who are not loyal to anyone or any party... My barman has decided to start a side hustle... During the day, he&rsquo;s a boda guy, at night he&rsquo;s behind the counter serving us drinks as he shares campaign stories... As boda operators are enjoying campaign spoils, we have another batch of Kenyans crying foul... En that&rsquo;s the nurses who are on strike for the past week!!! As Jubilee and NASA throw each other under the bus in the name of campaign, totally ignoring the nurses and their grievances... DERULO MEANS BUSINESSAway from matters politics and Ungareee to matters party nation....Pop star Jason Derulo, who has been in town since Saturday, left Wednesday morning.... The Swalla star was in town for Coke Studio Africa season five recording. Unlike Trey Songz, who rode in a ma3 to Rongai, Mr Derulo spent most of his time in studio with the 11 stars from Africa, making great music, but when he wasn&rsquo;t making music, he was busy with his girlfriend, who accompanied him to the 254... Jason&rsquo;s trip was purely business, with his security not allowing any random fans snatching a selfie opportunity during his sessions at Coke Studio...His hangout, which also doubled up as a meet-and-greet, went down at the Carnivore on Tuesday night... The event was invite-only, with Jason surprising the invited guests with an impromptu performance....East Africa stars who got a chance to work with the multitalented superstar are Dela, Bebe Cool and RayVanny.Wednesday night I was back at Nyayo Stadium for the Africa City Basketball Tournament, where Kenya was hosting Uganda, Tanzania, Somalia and South Sudan... Thursday night, #TheRaverend was at Sankara for the official Mo&euml;t Nectar launch, before checking into B-Club for the after party... Friday night, I was invited for a cognac (Hennessy) party at Ornyx Lounge on Ngong Road... Amazing club, great ambience, great music away from the hustle of Friday night drama that&rsquo;s Westy... But as usual, #TheRaverend&rsquo;s Friday is not a complete night without checking into the Red Light District... So after Ornyx, I clocked in at Privee in the wee hours of today morning. The plan was Touch and Go!!! But that wasn&rsquo;t the case after I found myself enjoying Saturday morning traffic from Privee balcony...OPEN TO A ROAD TRIPTonight, I&rsquo;m a free agent without a solid plan... So I&rsquo;m loose like a chick of Far East!!! Anything goes, I&rsquo;m down for wherever... I&rsquo;m engaging the full &ldquo;Cheers, Baba&rdquo;, &ldquo;Yes, My Guy&rdquo; mode. Anyone feeling like inviting me for a plan or throwing some Hennessy my way, I&rsquo;m ready!!! Kama iko a loose road trip, I&rsquo;m inside my guy!!!RAVEREND VIBES*UGALIREE/UNGAREE is the vibe. Everybody is searching for the white commodity, even #TheRaverend is crying Ungaree/Ugaliree... So I&rsquo;m calling on all the Kenyans to be their brother&rsquo;s keepers... If you see unga, tweet or WhatsApp other Kenyans....#SerchingForUnga*whats Vibing in the box office: DC Comic&rsquo;s The Amazon Queen Wonder Woman is still the vibe... with Tom Cruise&rsquo;s The Mummy misfiring. Not a vibe.... #TheRaverend is vibing on the Baywatch that premiered back in late May... For TeamMafisi who want to impress a fisilet, you can vibe with Baywatch, isssa Vibe.......*In Music #TheRaverend is vibing to LoveAgain by C4Pedro ft Sauti Sol.... Superstars Sauti Sol continue to introduce Kenya to new sounds, introducing Angolan star Pedro Lisboa Santos... Kenyan chicks, here is another reason to judge Kenyan men courtesy of Sauti Sol!!! Still on theRaverend&rsquo;s playlist, I&rsquo;m vibing to Khaligraph ft Bongo short-Stat RayVanny Chali ya Ghetto, en King Kaka&rsquo;s new joint Yap Yap. Why the Rabbit is salty en calling out everyone and everything in his new joint is still a mystery to me but all in all #IssaVibeFinally on #TheRaverendVibes: &ldquo;Is it a vibe to ask your parents to pay back cash/money you lent them???&rdquo; Continue the conversation @kiss100kenya en @shaffieweru on twitter or Facebook!!!