It&rsquo;s said that those who kill by the sword will die by the sword. Well this could be what is happening to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto (pictured). Having run what was widely seen as a propaganda campaign against the opposition chief Raila Odinga in 2013, the President now claims he is a victim of NASA&rsquo;s well-oiled spin. Uhuru and Ruto claimed that Raila fixed them at the ICC to lock out the ex-Prime Minister from the Rift Valley. Some NASA politicians were heard saying Uhuru must henceforth learn to play clean politics. NASA, for instance, has linked the State to the killing of Mumias Sugar company secretary Ronald Lubya. This is not dissimilar to the murder of business tycoon Jacob Juma. Only time will tell whether NASA is on a propaganda spree or not.***** Are the people in charge of the sugar sector the same people destroying the industry! A politician from Western Kenya who has been vocal in defense of sugar farmers was overheard bragging how he has made hundreds of millions from illegally importing sugar to Kenya from Zambia. A close aide to the politician confirmed to Corridors that the situation is worse, since there are higher chances that the cartels involved in the scheme do not pay taxes. It is also alleged that the sugar barons are based in Nairobi, Mombasa and other big towns. Their boss is based in Mombasa.***** So how will the government justify the Sh6 billion unga subsidy to Kenyans? It&rsquo;s hardly two weeks since the price of the staple commodity was lowered, but the maize flour is hardly available on the shelves. In many parts of the country, vendors insist you have to buy goods whose value is almost the same as the price of unga. Maybe the State needs to do more to be seen as protective to Kenyans.***** The county government of Laikipia under the leadership of Governor Joshua Irungu injected millions of shillings into the drilling of a borehole on private land in Kinamba village. The project was halted on the pretext that there was no water. How would you invest millions in public funds without a proper hydrological survey? Due to public outcry, water was found but the borehole was sealed for later use. The stalemate has not been resolved and Kinamba has no water to date. The Kinamba Health Centre now sources its water from a private supplier and some from the neighbouring river.