NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga is free to campaign and seek votes in Bondo town, but not in the company of Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, the Bondo Transport Association has said. The association comprises boda bodas, pickups and heavy commercial vehicles operators. It distanced itself from claims the members have routinely been jeering and humiliating Raila every time he visits Bondo town to drum up support for Rasanga&rsquo;s reelection.Officials Fredrick Agolla (chairman), Oliver Akach (assistant chairman), Dennis Owiti (secretary) and Samuel Lenya (assistant secretary) yesterday said they have no problem with Raila&rsquo;s visits to galvanise votes for his presidential bid.Agolla said the few scenarios where Raila met public resistance in Bondo town in the company of Rasanga were a clear signal that the public has reservations about the governor.Barely a week ago, Raila met resistance from the public when he tried to advocate for Rasanga&rsquo;s reelection under the guise of voting through the six-piece pattern.Raila was with the NASA brigade comprising Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula. They watched as the public openly rejected Raila&rsquo;s advances to drum up support for Rasanga.RejectedOther leaders in the entourage included Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Siaya Senator James Orengo, who earlier this month met similar resistance in Bondo town when they attempted to mention Rasanga during a rally. The official said as the transport sector in the region they have been impoverished by the county government, which has failed to provide opportunities to improve their business.&ldquo;Rasanga&rsquo;s administration is full of lip service which has not benefited us since its inception, hence the need for a change of guard,&rdquo; the chairman said. The officials were presenting their grievances to Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo at Nyawita, Bondo constituency, on Friday. He is seeking to dislodge Rasanga from the seat as an independent candidate. ThreatenedAgolla raised fears that unknown people have issued threats to some of their colleagues for maintaining their firm stand that they would prefer Gumbo to Rasanga.&ldquo;We have been issued with threatening messages so that we rescind our support for Gumbo (Wajonya) or face unspecified wrath,&rdquo; the chairman said, amid cheers from his colleagues. He, however, said as the transport sector they will not be cowed by individuals advancing selfish interests at the expense of the suffering public of Siaya county.Gumbo echoed similar sentiments, saying nobody from the region has the audacity to jeer and heckle Jakom (Raila) since they look up to him as their undisputed national leader. The legislator said the transport industry operators are advancing genuine concerns over the inept county leadership that has sidelined them on development issues.