Have you ever wondered why your receipts generated using Electronic Cash Register, as it happens in supermarkets, include a 16 per cent Value Added Tax charge?To begin with, it is important to note that VAT is tax charged on purchase of taxable goods and taxable services, both local and imported.A taxpayer is registered for VAT as per the law under two circumstances &ndash; mandatory and voluntary. Mandatory applies when an entrepreneur is registered by the commissioner since he/she has failed to do so, despite having an annual turnover of Sh5 million and above. On the other hand, registration under the voluntary circumstance may apply, even where the turnover is below the Sh5 million threshold. When registering, you must state the precise location of your business, telephone, email, and postal address. Registration is done on iTax; new registrants should select VAT obligation, while existing taxpayers should only amend their details to include VAT as an obligation. It is an offence to charge VAT before registration.At your business premise, you must clearly display KRA registration certificate all the time. In case you want to change business details such as physical and postal addresses, name or trading name, directors, bank accounts etc, it is a legal requirement to notify the commissioner of such changes within 30 days. There are three main types of supplies and tax rates considered under the VAT obligation: 16 per cent, zero rated and exempt. Most of the household items purchased at the supermarkets are taxable at 16 per cent. Goods and services ordinarily taxable at 16 per cent of the domestic front, when exported would be taxable at 0 per cent. Supplies meant for trade promotion, exports, and raw materials to pharmaceutical manufacturers for manufacturing medicaments are zero rated. Zero rating makes supplies cheaper as the tax rate is zero, while input tax is claimable; hence the entrepreneur is entitled to a refund. Exempt supplies are not taxable. Suppliers dealing wholly in exempt supplies are not entitled to input tax deduction. A supplier of exempt supplies therefore does not need to register for VAT.VAT works under the input-output tax system. Output tax refers to the VAT charged on the sales of taxable goods or services, while input tax refers to VAT charged on taxable purchases for business purposes. Tax payable is, therefore, the difference between the output tax and the input taxA VAT registered taxpayer who deals in both taxable and exempt supplies can only claim input tax in relation to taxable supplies. Where the input tax attributable to exempt and taxable sales cannot be differentiated, partial exemption method determines the input tax deductable.A taxpayer is allowed to deduct input tax, which is directly attributable to taxable output. This deduction must be supported by valid tax invoices and done within six months. A VAT tax point (when tax is due and payable) is determined by various factors. When goods are delivered or services offered; when a certificate of completion is issued; date when an invoice is issued; when a payment is received whether partial or in full, or the date of meter reading, whichever comes first. For imported goods, this is at the time of clearance by customs for home use.VAT payments are made online by generating an e-slip on the iTax platform used for payment in banks. They can also be made via mobile banking. Payments of Sh1 million and above must be done through Real Time Gross Settlement. The RTGS forms are available on KRA&rsquo;s website.VAT returns for a particular month are submitted online on iTax on or before the 20th of the following month. If the due date falls on a weekend or a public holiday, the returns and payment of tax due, if any, should be submitted before the last working day preceding the 20th day.The returns can either be a payment return (if output is more that input tax), credit return (if input is more than output) or nil return (if the registered taxpayer has not had any transactions).There are instances when VAT refunds may occur. The VAT Act provides for refunds for tax paid for various reasons such as: Excess of input tax from zero-rated supplies, tax paid in error or tax held for bad debts. The claims should be lodged on iTax within the stipulated time.The writer is the Deputy Commissioner, Policy Coordination Division, in KRA&rsquo;s Domestic Taxes Department.