Visiting Royal Salute lineup romped to a 6-5 win over Samsung Curve in the Horseman Trophy as the Nairobi tournament threw off yesterday at the Nairobi Polo Club.Led by Tarquin Gross, Samsung Curve were frustrated in the opening chukka as Kenya&rsquo;s top handicapped player Craig Millar scored one goal. In the second period, Tarquin leveled the scores but Millar hit in one for Royal Salute for a 2-1 lead at the break.Samsung Curve took the lead for the first time in the game through Raphael Nzomo&rsquo;s brace and Tarquin&rsquo;s one goal in the third chukka. However, Phillou Salle reduced the gap for Royal Salute with one goal in the same session. In the last chukka, Millar netted a hat-trick and Tarquin replied with one goal, to end the game 6-5.In the intermediate class, Sandstorm commenced their Lord Cranworth Cup campaign on a high note, clubbing Samsung S7 10-2. George Mccorkell opened the avalanche of goals, notching in a hat-trick in the opening chukka to give his side a 3-0 lead at the end of the period. Davin Shretta narrowed Samsung S7&rsquo;s deficit to two goals after scoring one in the second, but both Mccorkell and Omwakwe Arungah added a brace each to settle for a 7-1 score-line at the breather.On resumption, Omwakwe and Mccorkell scored one goal apiece for Sandstorm as Stutti Millar hit in one for Samsung S7 in the third chukka for 9-2. The last chukka saw Samsung S7 mount water-tight defence but Omwakwe squeezed in one goal to end the game at 10-2.In the second Lord Cranworth Cup, Samsung Note defeated Mombasa Island Cargo Terminal (MICT) 6-4. Samsung Note&rsquo;s Rowena Stichbury was the first to find opponent&rsquo;s area in the opening chukka, and Sammy Kiarie equalised in the second. Jonathan Stichbury gave Samsung Note a 2-1 advantage in the third chukka but the lead didn&rsquo;t last long as Martin Kesier leveled the scores and added a second, giving MICT a 2-3 lead.Samsung Note re-organiSed themselves in the fourth chukka and their strategy yielded results for the Samsung outfit. Kiarie was first to score for MICT for a 2-4 lead with Henry Limb equalising with his double, while Eugene Yumbya and Jonathan added a goal each, giving Samsung Note a 6-4 win.The Red Bull Cup matches were cut short after Martin Waiganjo fell off his pony and landed on his head in the second chukka between Capital FM and Tack Rack. He had to be rushed to the hospital for a double check and since the ambulance was not in the pitch, games were called off till today.