Busia governor hopeful Paul Otuoma yesterday introduced his running mate Solomon Abwaku to residents. They are running as indpendents. Otuoma said the county got it wrong in the 2013 election and the time has come to put its house in order. “I have huge support from the Teso community,” Otuoma said. He is a Luhya and Abwaku is Teso. The two men spoke at Quill hotel in Busia town. Abwaku, 50, is from Teso North. He holds a master’s degree in International Studies from the University of Nairobi. He has worked in public service for 26 years. Abwaku joined as District Officer in 1990. He became District Commissioner in 2008. He resigned as deputy county commissioner in 2016 to pursue his master’s degree. Abwaku also holds a degree in Sociology and a diploma in Strategic Leadership and Governance.  denounced as a traitor Abwaku said, “We will have professional civil servants who will occupy their rightful positions so that they can perform their roles as stipulated in the Constitution.” “I have been called a traitor by my Teso people, because I chose to support a Luhya governor aspirant, but what matters is change and service delivery.” Last week, Otuoma’s supporters from Teso praised the decision to settle on Abwaku, saying the move will help bring the Busia people together. “I have made up my mind to pick Abwaku as my running mate,” Otuoma said. But some supporters of Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said Abwaku should have turned down Otuoma’s offer and supported the incumbent. “We consider Otuoma’s running mate a betrayer to Ojaamong,” one supporter said.  call to remain united Abwaku has urged residents to remain united. “I’m in this journey to the end and we will emerge victorious, despite the fact that we are running on an independent ticket,” Abwaku said. He said they will campaign peacefully. “Our main agenda will be service and equal distribution of resources. We will not entertain corruption,” Abwaku said. “There is a worrying trend, where civil servants, who were employed as middle-class citizens, become multibillionaires in the first few years.” Ojaamong has four rivals — Otuoma, Humphrey Nakitare (ANC), Michael Oloo (Ford Kenya) and Daniel Barasa (Jubilee Party).