In an effort to answer the age-old question, "What is love?" I&rsquo;ll share with you a theory you probably wouldn&rsquo;t have heard of. The reason you wouldn&rsquo;t have heard of it is I just thought of it. I could be wrong, of course; someone out there might have thought of it already.In any case, here goes. What is love? The answer has to do with masks, costumes, and being in character. I&rsquo;ll explain.When you go out to, say, a social event, you put on your best threads, the cloths you have on such occasions is not the stuff you wear every day, and so, you&rsquo;re in costume. Depending on the crowd that is at that particular event, their social status and what have you, you could go for personality type charming, attentive or humorous; you&rsquo;re playing a character. Your expressions and speech will have to match the character you&rsquo;re projecting, which is a mask. In other words, the person you are out there in society is not the real you. Often, it is a toned down version of yourself, where you are on your best behaviour, showing only the parts of you that are positive, and impressive. They call them social masks, and we all wear them to fit in, conform, and portray behaviour that is acceptable to the world around us. Here&rsquo;s a practical example of social masking. A lot of people, when introduced to a complete stranger, will smile and say: &lsquo;Happy to meet you.&rsquo; Why? You just met them, how can you be happy. This stranger could be anything from a priest to a person of interest in an ongoing terrorist cell investigation. For all you know, the authorities could be at that moment taking a picture of you and this fellow, shaking hands, all smiles. Bet you &lsquo;happy&rsquo; isn&rsquo;t what you&rsquo;re going to be feeling when investigators come knocking to ask you about your new friend. I&rsquo;m sure there are people who are genuinely happy to meet random persons. My point is most people who say so, don&rsquo;t actually mean it. The smile and the happiness is a social mask.One of our greatest fears as human beings, the reason for social masks, is that the world is going to find us out, yank the mask off, and say: &lsquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s just you. Nothing special.&rsquo; You are not perfect, and you know it. Nobody is. But that doesn&rsquo;t stop us from being afraid that people will not like us when they know of our flaws, and so we cover up the warts with a persona, the mask. There are those situations where wearing a mask is essential. The captain of a sinking ship, for instance, may look calm and collected on the outside while organising the life boats, but on the inside, he&rsquo;s probably not.What does this all have to do with love? The masks we wear are chafing, the costumes stifling, and the acting is exhausting. And then, if you&rsquo;re lucky, someone comes along whom you can pull your mask off for, shed the costume, drop the act, to show your true self. That&rsquo;s love. Someone you&rsquo;re not afraid to show the real you to, all of you, the good and the bad.It&rsquo;s love if they like you not just because of who you are, but sometimes in spite of who you are.