Operations remained grounded in public hospitals in the Kisumu county as the nurses&rsquo; strike entered its second day yesterday.The nurses&rsquo; industrial action began on Monday. The nurses are pushing for the implementation of a collective bargaining agreement they signed with the county government.&ldquo;The strike is legal. We had an agreement signed with them and a return-to-work formula signed on 14 December. And we agreed if the CBA is not negotiated and signed on March 2, the nurses would proceed with the strike,&rdquo; Maurice Opetu, acting secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, said yesterday. The nurses had boycotted work for two weeks in December.Speaking on the phone, he said the strike will continue until all their demands are met. A spot check by the Star revealed nurses in the facilities did not report to work. Only doctors were seen attending to patients, and some who needed the services of nurses were turned away. At the Kisumu County Hospital, a victim of mob justice who suffered serious injuries and had been hospitalised could not be attended to.Police officers who had rescued the person dropped him at the hospital. But he was left being scorched by the sun despite having deep cut wounds.Antenatal services were not being offered, and most of the pregnant mothers who had gone for check-ups were not served because there was no medic in sight.Some of the women waited outside the consultation rooms from morning to midday, but the doors remained closed.The case was the same in other public hospitals in the county.Opetu said the nurses want the government to sign the already negotiated CBA, and it be registered in court as agreed when they signed the return-to-work formula. In December last year, Seth Panyako, the secretary general of KNUN signed the deal on behalf of the health workers following talks over the salaries stalemate.&ldquo;Talks on the collective bargaining agreement of 2013 will begin in January. For now we have reached an agreement with the counties to end the strike,&rdquo; he had said.Panyako had earlier walked out of the negotiations, citing lack of seriousness on the part of the government.But he said after the signing: &ldquo;From this moment on, nurses should begin going to their places of work because the strike is off.&rdquo;Infighting in the union saw a faction reject a deal signed by some officials. The nurses&rsquo; strike last year coincided with that of doctors, which lasted for 100 days, from December 5. They resumed work in March. Doctors had also threatened to go on strike. But the CBA between doctors and the county governments which was to be executed by May 14 will now be effected on May 28. The execution date of the CBA between the doctors and the national government was also extended to June 3.