CALL him retired Major General, or no-nonsense Sirisia MP John Waluke (pictured). Word has it that the MP is the happiest JP legislator, for now. Reason? The JP pointman in Bungoma county is overjoyed, following the mammoth crowd turnout during the party’s Sunday rally in Bungoma that has left the NASA leaders in the county awestruck. Perhaps the most unexpected and successful Jubilee rally in an opposition stronghold, it was so well-attended it is said the NASA honchos are still wondering whether President Uhuru and his brigade have at last managed to make significant inroads in Western Kenya. Word has it that mobilizers of the crowd alongside Governor Kenneth Lusaka were yesterday spotted jovially hugging colleagues and taunting the opposition for losing ground in the region. ARE the so-called Raila Odinga Nyanza presidential campaign team helping the ODM leader, or disenfranchising his backyard? The team, headed by Nominated MP Oburu Oginga and Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga have turned their tour of the region into advocating for a six-piece suit vote pattern. Well, some ODM officials on the ground are concerned that Oburu and Wanga are biting off more than they can chew. They say the duo should reread their terms of reference. In any case, Nyanza is already fully in NASA. The argument is that some independent candidates are so strong that trying to campaign against them is actually denying Raila votes. Is there anybody listening to the silent voices? A Nairobi-based anti-graft official entangled in a love triangle with a US-based married woman has been using his office to track his lover’s husband. The man, who has been receiving payments from the woman, has been non-proceduraly tracking the lover’s husband whenever he visits the country and reporting to her. The anti-graft man was the woman’s former classmate in their Eastern Kenya rural area. The husband is accusing the EACC official of breaking his marriage and wants the man stopped from abusing his office. WORD has it that police in Chuka, Embu county, have been reluctant to arrest and prosecute a woman who has thrice in a week attempted to burn her estranged husband’s house; instead, they are asking the man to reconcile with the her. The woman, who doused the house in petrol and set it ablaze the first time, destroyed all doors the next day and demolished a wall. But she has not been prosecuted, despite all the incidents being reported at the Chuka police station. The woman is said to have even visited her in-laws and bragged to them that she had burnt the house. What is shocking is that police are asking the US-based husband to produce proof of ownership of the property before the woman is arrested. The woman has been frequenting the police station in attempts to thwart prosecution of the case.