NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga’s push for a six-piece voting pattern and rejection of independent candidates could be his undoing, political analyst Martin Oloo has said. Raila has been urging voters in his backyard to elect ODM candidates to give him the numbers in Parliament and the county assemblies. But Oloo says Raila’s focus should be on the bigger picture — the presidency. “NASA should keep off the six-piece and independents’ issue because it is a double-edged sword — even for Jubilee. What is important is to let the people have their choices without being directed,” he told the Star on the phone yesterday. The August election will have the highest number of independent candidates in the history of Kenya’s elections. This has been partly blamed on shambolic primaries. While Jubilee has embraced its affiliate independents, NASA has rejected them, saying they will spoil their numbers. Political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche adds that “internal cannibalism” within NASA is a result of a failed attempt to dissolve main parties at its inception. “When Jubilee affiliates were folding up, the NASA brigade was busy laughing at them and even accusing party leaders of selling their parties. It has now come to hound them,” he said. Wanjekeche said Raila must stop agitating for six-piece votinfg as this might be seen as an attempt to impose leaders. “If you’re serious about the presidency, must you tell voters who else they should elect? What Raila is doing will create disenchantment within the NASA tent and could easily erode his presidential support,” he said. Oloo, however, disagrees on dissolution of parties. He said the retention of NASA parties is an advantage to the alliance, as they are vehicles for mobilising votes for the presidential race. Oloo said Raila must focus on his presidential bid and avoid issues that might jeopardise it. On Saturday, Kakamega Senator and governor candidate Boni Khalwale shared similar sentiments. He told Raila in Bukhungu Stadium that all candidates running on the tickets of NASA affiliates will campaign for him, but he must keep off local politics.