FIRST of all, not inviting Raila Odinga to speak during the Madaraka Day celebrations in Nyeri because he is in opposition is typical of this Jubilee Administration. They don&rsquo;t want people to speak so that they can hide the truth.But I am not sure what they are trying to hide, since everything is out there in the open. Kenyans are suffering because of corruption, poverty, unemployment and a dishonest Jubilee government. It&rsquo;s all in the public limelight that the country is heading in the wrong direction. This government behaves like an ostrich, where you put your head down and follow it. You bury your head and assume the enemy will not be able to see you.Speaking in mother tongue at a national event is uncalled- for. It is no good. We did not hear people talk Kikamba in Machakos. If it&rsquo;s held in Kisumu I am not sure if we will have an element of people talking in Luo. A national event must be conducted in a language that is heard and understood by everyone.That is why President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will visit only Governors who are friendly, the ones who are playing to be good boys and are in their favour. The Uhuru Administration prefers to hold public holiday celebrations where the Governors are afraid to speak the truth. They work with people who can&rsquo;t speak the truth. It is bad they prevent people with divergent views from talking at or accessing public holidays celebrations, despite the fact that they are National Day events.We have seen it in Mombasa many times &ndash; our leaders being blocked from attending public events funded by taxpayers. When they know that you will speak the truth, they will do all they can to shut you down. And the best way to shut you down is to harass and intimidate you, just to stop you from speaking the truth. They don&rsquo;t even give you an opportunity to access official events, because they know what you stand for.National events are supposed to be held across the country as per the Constitution. They were to follow the county number: Mombasa as County Number 001 would have been the first. I don&rsquo;t see it happening soon in Mombasa. The country belongs to all Kenyans and the government should listen to and work with everyone.Nassir is the Mvita MP