While you may think the answer to being slim lies with exercise, you might be surprised to hear that you can whittle your waist and achieve flat abdominals simply by sitting down.You heard that right. Dell-Maree Day is the Australian ex-Pilates instructor behind a new programme designed to revolutionise how we approach our posture, and change our bodies in the process. The expert told Daily Mail Australia that when we sit down slumped in our office chairs, we are only using around ten of our 639 muscles. COMMON POSTURE MISTAKESAccording to Ms Day - who is a biomechanics and posture expert with years of experience in the Pilates industry - the most common posture mistakes are that we are either doing too little or too much:"People often fall on one or the other end of the spectrum," she told Daily Mail Australia."They're either not trying at all with their posture, and so are naturally sitting slumped at the back of their chair."Or they're trying too hard to sit up straight and tucking their tummy in. Both are as damaging as each other."Your invisible muscles are subconscious muscles so if you try to squeeze your abs, or try to sit straight, you won't have any success in activating them."The expert said that good posture fundamentally 'comes down to bones sitting where they're supposed to sit'.She explained that there are several basic tweaks you can make to your seated position in order to improve your posture, and slim your waist.HOW TO SIT YOURSELF SLIM"Most people are slumped into their chairs pushing backwards into its back," Ms Day said."Instead, you need to move away from the back half of the chair and sit towards the front."Place your feet beneath your knees flat, with a fist-sized distance between them and once you've placed your feet in this position, think about being as tall but as natural as possible. "Look straight ahead of you and breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth. As you do this, think about your sternum [breast bone] connecting through to your spine."You'll find that the bones in your spine stack themselves naturally, and your deepest subconscious muscle - your deep abdominal muscle - is activated."This is the only muscle that can give you flat abdominals, but is the single most dysfunctional muscle."Ms Day also recommends relaxing your arms, as much of the time our arms are too tense."Through practice, my body is now in such a position that it doesn't know how to sit any other way," Ms Day said. 'It's easy to change how you sit."WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS?Alongside a flat stomach, there are many benefits to simply sitting correctly:"Sitting with good posture can alleviate aches and pains and helps to oxygenate the body correctly," Ms Day said."When you breathe better, your productivity will increase and you will feel more calm and energised.""Unlike pricey gym equipment, posture and breathing is much more accessible. You can do it anywhere, anytime - and will see the benefits far faster than exercise.""Every muscle in our 639 muscles is critically and equally important. It's vital to remember this when sitting down or thinking about your posture,"she said.THE CAKE AND ICING ANALOGYIf you're a serial exerciser, but not seeing the results you'd like, you might want to pay attention now.Exercise alone will never change your body shape:'Moving is great, but it's only the icing on the cake,' Ms Day explained.'I'm helping people to create a good cake, rather than a rubbish one - and it comes from just being seated,' she added.According to the expert, people often put on weight and then think they need to go out and exercise even more to shake it:'This creates an even worse cake,' she said. 'Actually, what you might need to do is exercise less and you'll look better, but simply be still more and sit correctly.' SO HOW CAN I IMPROVE?As well as adjusting your sitting position as detailed above, Ms Day said there are countless other tweaks you can make to improve your posture - and your body:'Say you're standing still waiting for a bus. Stand really tall and then breathe in and out, sending your sternum towards your spine.'When you do this, your spine will stack up naturally and beautifully - and there is no doubt that you will look taller and slimmer as a result.'How many of us have walked down the street only to catch a glimpse of yourself in s shop window, hunched over and uncomfortable? How horrifying is it?'People think that exercise is the only way to get in shape. In actual fact, our bodies are designed to sit and stand perfectly all day - we just need to learn how.'THE INVISIBLE EXERCISE Ms Day is the brains behind a new programme - The Invisible Exercise - which aims to strengthen your body through posture training and help improve your entire system.The programme specifically teaches you how to activate all of your body's 639 muscles, through triggering 'muscle memory'.'Even though it may look like you're not doing very much, the exercise is "invisible" and in fact your body is burning serious calories as it stretches and retrains itself,' Ms Day explained.The programme has ten exercises over ten weeks and costs AUD $99 to sign up. For more information about The Invisible Exercise, you can visit the website here. You can also follow The Invisible Exercise on Instagram here.