HAVE there been more sackings at the IEBC? We are told that the commission has sent way people in the supply chain for reasons known only to the commissioners. The IEBC chiefs are apparently probing a number of procurement deals and recently commissioned an internal audit which they are using to suspend people they claim are linked to suspicious dealings. We are told that it's the same audit report that was used to send home ICT director James Muhati and many people are lined up to go home in the coming days. Wafula Chebukati and his team, we are told, are taking no chances.===ARE there secret wars within NASA to control Raila Odinga's presidential campaign? Sources whisper to Corridors that backstabbing and elbowing have rocked the team that brings together the five affiliate NASA political parties. Perhaps it's time for NASA presidential campaign chairman Musalia Mudavadi to dig in deep. At the centre of the silent war is the desire to control the campaign billions. University don Adams Oloo was silently edged out as the Raila campaign manager. He was replaced by lawyer Wilis Otieno. But it's said this is just the tip of the iceberg of a vicious battle. At the last election, there was a blame game between Eliud Owallo, Caroli Omondi and Ngungiri Wambugu as to how the campaigns were bungled. A senior politician was heard to say they will not allow selfish people to mess up the NASA campaigns.===A second-term MP from Western has gone underground after receiving millions of shillings from two parliamentary candidates on the promise that he would help them secure ODM nomination certificates. The two candidates, who did not get the certificates even after giving out millions of shillings, have vowed to teach him a lesson if he does not refund the money. The MP, according to our moles, is not picking calls and most of the time switches off his phone and is rarely visible in public, unlike the case before the ordeal.===AN internal auditor with a parastatal in Nyanza is behaving strangely. The man, whose qualifications are also in doubt, has shocked his colleagues over his consistent absenteeism from work. What is baffling is that the man has now taken a pivotal role in the campaigns of an independent candidate in Migori county. So baffling is the man that he iis in charge of campaigns, yet he is a civil servant. He no longer sets foot in the office but collects monthly salaries. Corridors of Power is wondering who is shielding this man.