Last week, some Arab countries led by Saudi Arabia cut ties with Qatar &ndash; a tiny but rich county in the Gulf &mdash; accusing it of supporting terrorism, sectarianism and maintaining relations with Iran.Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, UAE and Egypt cut all diplomatic ties, and closed their land, sea and airspace to Qatar. Jordan, on the other hand, downgraded its relations with Doha.And in Africa, Djibouti said it reduced the level of its diplomatic ties with Qatar as an expression of solidarity, while Senegal announced it will recall its ambassador to Doha. Mauritania and Mauritius also said they severed ties with the Gulf country in support of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf nations. Somalia is the only African country that took a neutral position, and called for dialogue to resolve the Gulf diplomatic row. It also offered a helping hand to find a solution to the crisis. The reason why Qatar was put under siege is not that it supports terrorist groups, but because of Doha&rsquo;s rise in literally every field, including its ambitious foreign policy, which worries Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies.Qatar welcomes figures from the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas, which are banned from other Gulf nations and Egypt, where they have been labelled as &lsquo;terrorist groups.&rsquo; The Muslim Brotherhood is against what it believes is an authoritarian regime in Egypt, while Hamas is fighting the Israeli occupation. In this case, Qatar is supporting people who are fighting for their rights and, for Saudi Arabia, you are a terrorist if you are against authoritarian rule or occupation.Doha is ambitious to be a big global player, and already has a huge influence. Riyadh has always influenced the foreign policy of its fellow member of the Gulf Cooperation Council, commonly known as GCC, and sees Qatar as a rival that wants to replace it thus labelling it a &lsquo;terrorism sponsor.&rsquo; Saudi Arabia does not want its neighbours to rise and shine on the global stage as Qatar is trying to do. Qatar&rsquo;s global influence also comes from its Al Jazeera TV, influencing millions around the world and Saudi Arabia and its allies want it shut down. Its national carrier, Qatar Airways, is one of the world&rsquo;s most profitable and successful airlines. And in 2022, Qatar is scheduled to host the world&rsquo;s biggest game &mdash; the FIFA World Cup. Saudi Arabia has nothing close to this. It is only known because of its oil and Islam&rsquo;s holiest site &mdash; Mecca. Qatar hosts the biggest US military airbase in the Middle East, where the 2003 invasion of Iraq was launched. The Emiratis want the US to relocate this base. Qatar played key roles in resolving crises both in the Middle East and in other Muslim nations. It helped broker a peace deal between the Sudan government and Dafuri rebels, brought together rival Palestinian factions, and hosted talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban. Saudi Arabia has never resolved any crisis in the Muslim world. It failed in Yemen; it could not defeat Houthi rebels fighting the government there despite spending billions on weapons, and it could not help end the war in Syria. It accuses Iran of backing President Bashar al Assad but does nothing. Nothing is preventing Riyadh from supporting the Sunni rebels fighting to overthrow Al Assad.Qatar is also a member of the US-led coalition against ISIS, which Saudi is also part of.Turkey and Iran &mdash; both non-Arab nations &mdash; are trying to resolve the Syrian conflict, diplomatically. Saudi Arabia is nowhere to be found.Saudi Arabia appears to be punishing Qatar for being too ambitious and taking a regional lead in resolving crises, as the big brother sits pretty. The writer is an independent Africa and Middle East analyst based in Nairobi, and a communications consultant