Large-scale flower exporters have called for enactment of a law requiring all dealers to &ldquo;be properly certified to increase compliance&rdquo; with sanitary and phytosanitary requirements. The Kenya Flower Council chairman Richard Fox said this will help uphold Kenya&rsquo;s superior flower brand in the international markets. Speaking at the opening of the International Flower Trade Expo in Nairobi yesterday, Fox said that although there was 70 per cent compliance rate in the floriculture business, the remaining 30 per cent was enough to tarnish the Kenyan brand which has seen increased global recognition over the years. &ldquo;There are exporters who have got flowers they can send into other markets that do not need certification. This has a negative effect on our brand as Kenya,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;What we are saying to government is to make compliance mandatory so that we can lift that other 30 per cent and in turn you can showcase brand Kenya flowers.&rdquo; Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows that the quantity of exported cut flowers rose 8.82 per cent to 133,658 metric tonnes in 2016 from 122,825 tonnes the previous year, with the value growing 12.54 per cent to Sh70.83 billion compared to Sh62.94 billion in 2015. In 2016, the value of cut flowers constituted 69.77 per cent of total horticultural exports. Fox said that 100 per cent compliance would also improve the well-being of flower farm workers, environmental best practices and increase cash inflows from the sector. &ldquo;Within the floriculture industry, wages are relatively higher and if you are not required to do any certification, you can just pay minimum wage and not apply so much attention to welfare, the environment and other such things,&rdquo; Fox said. Kenya&rsquo;s floriculture industry is seeking to diversify into emerging markets such as the US, China, Russia and Dubai while still building on exports to existing markets including the EU, Australia and Japan. &ldquo;Consumption is growing due to the emergence of new markets such as China, Russia and US and Kenya has the structural capability and an opportunity to supply these regions,&rdquo; HPP Exhibition president Dick Van Ramsdonk said yesterday. He urged the countries flower exporters to take advantage of the direct US flights set to begin in 2018 and invest largely in growing the number of greenhouses for increased flower production.