The Raila Conspiracy, subtitled “The Secrets Behind Denying Him the Kenyan Presidency” is a 415-page book by Babior Newton. It is the third and latest biography of Raila Odinga after Nigerian academic Babadeji Adebayo’s The Enigma of Kenya Politics (2005) and journalist Sarah Elderkin’s The Flame of Freedom (2011). Newton, an acquaintance of the late Fidel Odinga, who first introduced the concept of this biography to his father, writes in the Acknowledgements, “I will leave the nit-picking to critics, syndicated columnists, cynics and political pundits, who I predict will inevitably subject this work to partisanship, prejudice and propaganda”. Its Foreword is by the former Prime Minister himself, who comments, “It is not an easy task to write a foreword to a book about yourself. But I took pleasure in writing this; first out of my deep belief in supporting the efforts of our young people who have shown a deep and burning desire to understand where our country has been or is coming from as a way of constructing what could be its viable path into the future.” The Preface is by Morgan Tsvangirai, former opposition leader and Prime Minister of Zimbabwe, who says, “As you read this carefully crafted biography, consider this man – this son of Africa – as a gift to the continent. We reckon in many places that a prophet may not enjoy honour at home. However, in the hearts of these people, Raila remains the “President that Never Was” even as he battles to make his (possibly) last presidential attempt.” Among those who have endorsed this biography are Boniface Mwangi the political activist and Starehe parliamentary candidate and Nic Cheeseman, professor of Democracy at the University of Birmingham. The latter says, “This book is packed full of thought provoking arguments and fresh ideas. You may not agree with everything that Newton argues, but you will get a lot out of engaging with his analysis, and some of the detail provided is hard to find.” The Siasa pullout begins the book’s two-part serialization today, featuring Chapter 7, entitled “Raila Odinga: The People’s President”. The next installment is next weekend. More on this: Raila Odinga: The People’s President Chapter Seven