Kenya Simbas have dropped one place from position 25 to 26 in the latest World rugby ranking. The drop comes after a disappointing 33-33 draw with Uganda in the Africa Gold Cup match over the weekend at the RFUEA ground.Kenyans were overtaken by Portugal, who are now 25th with 57.26 points. The draw lifted Uganda to a whole five places from 45th to 40th with 48.46 points.Simbas&rsquo; next play Tunisia on July 8 followed by home tie against Senegal on July 15. Head coach Jerome Paarwater said the next two weeks will be used to tighten the defence and improve on tackling as well as game management. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s good we retained the Elgon Cup but much work lies ahead in terms of our defensive shape and structure and how to close out matches. This was our undoing in the matches against Germany and Uganda and we have no choice but to improve in that regard,&rdquo; added Paarwater.Paarwater said he expects a physical contest from Tunisia in their next match. &ldquo;They have big physical pack which we must match and we must be able to dominate our scrums and line-outs. We expect a response from the boys after the draw against Uganda,&rdquo; he added. Elsewhere, the Kenya Cup and Enterprise champions KCB depart tomorrow for a 10-day training camp in South Africa. According to the itinerary, KCB will play couple of friendlies in South Africa and will have a chance to attend a Super Rugby match when Stormers take on Japan Sunwolves on July 8 at Newlands Stadium in Cape Town. KCB team manager Rooney Kangeta has lauded the bank for sponsoring the team to the Western Province Rugby Union after the brilliant 2016/17 season adding that the trip will be a major contributory factor to the team&rsquo;s preparation for the 2017/2018 rugby season.KCB group marketing and communications director, Angela Mwirigi, said the trip will expose the players to world class rugby training facilities as a build up to the 2017/18 season.&ldquo; The team had a successful 2016/17 season, winning two domestic titles&mdash;Kenya Cup and Enterprise Cup. The South Africa trip is an exposure for the rugby team to enable them defend the trophies in coming season, &rdquo; said Mwirigi.