End mouth comes with good tidings... So as all taxpayers celebrate their salary, #TeamShaffie are also celebrating the first issue of #TheRaverendLife Column of 2017!!! Ramadhan Kareem to all my Muslim sisters and brothers, we are eight minus 30 days to go!!!So as Mista President Uhuru Kenyatta was hanging out with Donald Trump in Italia G7 summit, I was representing Kenya in London, where I got to bump into former US President Barack Obama, who was meeting young folks at the invitation of Prince Harry... While in London, I also attended the Emirates FA Cup Final Arsenal vs Chelsea at the home of football, "Wembley Stadium". My team, the English champions, lost to the Arsenal girls... It wasn't part of the plan but then again we were just too hangovered from celebrating the EPL title!!! Still on #TheRaverends London escapades, I got to dine at The Dorchester, party at The Hilton Park Lane en "Shoreditch" the London's equivalent of Red Light District or Westy!!! Clubs in "Shoreditch" don't allow a group of Ma-Fisi into any club....All Ma-Fisi must be accompanied by chicks. It's a dope strategy, plus it reduces competition!!! Being single/Fisi in the London is very complicated... Cases of Chips Funga in London are very rare! Landed back in the 254 on Tuesday, passed by K1 Kline house, en I can confirm the Tuesday party is still kicking ass!!! Wednesday, it's all things country music, aka Director's party night at Galileo Lounge with Sir Elvis. The Country Night at Galilleo is the new Rock Night... "Rock Night" was the biggest midweek party back in the days! I was invited for the SGR maiden journey to Mombasa and back but I decided to take a rain check. A bunch of industry big wigs including the President made the trip but not #TheRaverend, so consider this my official apology for letting #TumblarNumber1 down!!! Thursday was a hectic day for me, I was invited for the Groove Awards at the KICC. Groove is technically the Grammys of the Kenyan gospel fraternity!!! Attending The 12th annual Groove Awards is work because of the red carpet plus the event is live on TV.... As usual, Groove organisers never disappoint. The event was flawless and my prayer is that one day the mainstream artiste will have a chance to shine on the red carpet en live TV for all the hard work they continue to put in....From the Groove glamour I checked into Kiza lounge for Dj Maphorisa x Major Lazer worldwide release party!!! The event bounced, though, as Maphorisa didn't agree with the club, but my night was never-ending because from Kiza I landed at B-Club for the pre-party of the monthly B-Club pool party happening Sunday! Friday nights in my city, it's all about bar-hoping. The best place to do exactly that is Westy aka Red Light District. Top clubs happening on Fridays are Buddah bar x Mercury Lounge x Alchemist en Privee!!! Tonight #TheRaverend will be hosting The Afro Pop Festival at the Ngong Race Course water front. All single ladies are invited to come thirst on American pop star Omarion, who will be the first millennial pop star to perform in Nairobi after Chris Brown in Mombasa!!! So if you didn't have a plan, tonight you come through and party with Omarion, Kenya's finest artistes &amp; DJs en not to mention #TheRaverend!!!! Sunday, it's all about the B-Club pool party hosted by Nigerian star Inyanya... This will be the 5th edition of the pool party, with the last one hosted by Darassa x Ben Pol... So if you have the bikini/mankini body BCLub x #TheRaverend are bringing the beach life to the city!!!RAVEREND VIBESWhere the party is at*Afro Pop Festival 3rd June, Omarion live on stage at the Ngong Race Course water front*B-Club Pool Party 5th Edition 4th June, hosted by Inyanya at Diamond Plaza rooftop*Arts &amp; Zen at Privee stand-up comedy en live music 4th June hosted by Eric OmondiWhat to drink*Mo&euml;t Nectar for both the ladies and cool dudes who love all the good things in life #ChampagnePapis*Real OG Hennessy VSOP for the real ballers and Hennessy VS cocktails for all team guys who love to party but still believe is saving cash for a rainy day!*Ballantine's scotch in the rocks of your #TeamWhiskeyWhat to wear*It's all about mix en match. If that sounds daunting, don't be afraid. There's something inherently wearable about the new wave of eclecticism, and you'll often find that individual pieces are entirely easy to wear on the regular. Jeans/denim with a combination of bejewelled accessories, trophy jacket and motif tee&mdash;a great going-out outfit.*Dudes with the unpredictable weather, Chelsea boots are a must have!!!!!What to watchThe Raverend recommends:Lucifer sn 2 and Designates Survivor are the freshest series to watch!!!Best movie opening in June:Wonder Woman, opening first week of JuneThe Recall, starring Wesley Snipes x RJ Mitte Still showing in cinemas:Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Don't tell No Tales! Guardians of The Galaxy Vol 2Hottest joint to jam to:TheRaverend is bumping to anything and everything with a dope Afro Pop vibe, no doubt!