A six-year-old village in Changamwe constituency is becoming infamous for &ldquo;flying toilets&rdquo;.Machumani village, which has about 60 houses with more than 130 families, has only three pit latrines to serve more than 500 residents.One of the latrines is already filled up. The other two are almost full.Once filled, it takes about one month for them to be emptied.Villagers have to contribute money to get them emptied.The three toilets are privately owned and sometimes are locked by their owners. &ldquo;This forces people to use polythene bags and throw them over houses. When we collect garbage, we sometimes accidentally touch the stool,&rdquo; resident Erastus Matari said.Matari is the leader of a youth organisation, the Mbuyuni Youth Bunge Group, which started the garbage collection business in the village.They appealed to leaders to help construct public toilets in the area.MP hopeful shockedWhen Changamwe MP hopeful Peterson Mitau on Tuesday visited the village, he was shocked and was left speechless for about 20 minutes.He later pledged to help construct three public toilets to ease the pressure on the three existing ones.Mitau left deposit money for the toilet construction to start. &ldquo;It is a shame that Changamwe leaders know of this problem and have done nothing. That is why we need a change in leadership,&rdquo; he said.Mitau said if elected, he will provide fresh water for Machumani village residents. The village will also need proper planning, he said.Area Nyumba Kumi ambassador Halima Syombua said one cannot walk for 100 metres without encountering human faeces in a polythene bag.fear of disease outbreak&ldquo;When rains come, the faeces are swept into the houses, exposing children to diseases,&rdquo; Syombua said.Mitau said residents are at constant risk of being victims of waterborne diseases. &ldquo;With nurses on strike, it could spell a disaster,&rdquo; he said.The village started in 2012, after a private developer took away the fertiliser-making machines that had occupied the about five acres of land for decades.When people saw the machines had been taken away and the land was free, they occupied the area. The village is mainly made up of semi-permanent and temporary structures. Houses are narrowly spaced.Resident and community worker Mastura Murusali said the level of poverty in the village is high and literacy levels are low. &ldquo;This has forced young girls into prostitution and young boys into drug abuse. Unfortunately, the level of despair is so high that adult women and men have been forced into alcoholism,&rdquo; Murusali said.