Struggling telco, Telkom Kenya, has invested about $50 Million ( Sh 5.17 billion) in expanding network coverage across the country. The mobile network provider is seeking to grow its market share under the guidance of UK&rsquo;s private equity fund, Helios, which controls 60 per cent stake. Helios was synonymous with Equity Bank&rsquo;s growth trajectory following acquisition of 24.99 per cent stake in 2008 until its exit in August 2015. Telkom&rsquo;s chief technical and information officer John Barorot said the company is currently in the final stages of boosting its network efficiency in a bid to catch up with competitors, Safaricom and Airtel. &ldquo;We are currently putting up an additional of 500 sites, which will increase our network capacity to 1, 100 sites,&rdquo; said Barorot in an interview with the Star. &ldquo;So far, 350 sites are complete and we expect to finalise this project in the next three months.&rdquo; Market leader Safaricom has the largest number of sites at more than 3,000, while Airtel Kenya &ndash; the country&rsquo;s distant second largest telco by market share &ndash; has about 1,500 sites. Telkom has expanded data reach from 25 per cent to 55 per cent for second generation and third generation network, Bororot said, adding this is meant to give better network penetration into buildings and homes. Nairobi has 133 out of 500 Telkom&rsquo;s sites. The telco says it plans to introduce a bouquet of innovative products before the end of the year, in addition to investing heavily in data. According to Barorot, the first phase of the 4G roll out is nearly 90 per cent complete and present in seven towns. The towns are Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Nyeri, Eldoret and Meru. The expansion strategy is based on network traffic and market demand, he said. The company has adopted a co-locating strategy with its competitors in expanding its network coverage, which means putting up sites as opposed to building new towers. According to Access Gap Study Report released early in 2016, 94.4 per cent of the Kenyan population has access to 2G network services while 78 per cent of the population has access to 3G services. Telkom, just like its competitors, sees data as the growth area for telcos. The firm, controlled 40 per cent by the state, says it has laid more than 7,000 kilometres of fibre through the enterprise business segment which is focused on growing SMEs and corporate clients. Under this strategy, Barorot says, the SMEs will get a dedicated link with a speed of 10 megabytes per second. The mass market will, on the other hand, have their network design based on probability. In this case, subscribers will only request for what they need in terms of data or voice. The resources will be provided on request. To ensure the success of the strategy, Telkom says it using three key performance indicators: call set-up, call retainability and the main opinion call &ndash; the perceived call quality by the user. However, Barotot says the methodology used to measure the KPIs, differs with that used by the regulator, the Communications Authority of Kenya. &ldquo;What we are not doing with the regulator is that they are choosing the route randomly yet there are some licence requirements of where you need to have your services,&rdquo; Barorot, who served in a similar role at Safaricom, said. Helios appointed former Orascom executive Aldo Mareuse as chief executive of Telkom Kenya after buying controlling stake from France Orange. pointment of Aldo Mareuse as the Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors. Since this new management took over, Barotot has pinned out network roll out and network efficiency as their major achievement. ENDHelios appointed former Orascom executive Aldo Mareuse as chief executive of Telkom Kenya after buying controlling stake from France Telkom, trading under Orange brand.