NAIROBI Senator Mike Sonko has not hit the ground to campaign after winning the JP primaries, which were described by his main competitor, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, as shambolic. Corridors is not sure the reason behind this, yet it's five weeks to the August polls. His strongest rival, Dr Evans Kidero, has hit the ground running even more than before to sell his development manifesto and interact with citizens.*****AS the country heads to the election, gangs are slowly taking over the streets. Reports of gangs operating openly within the CBD have made everyone panic. Their network is calculated to evade security enforcers. For instance, a group allegedly enjoying both political and police protection in Kiambu has a stage to collect money from PSVs in daytime hours at Rumathi and extends its services to Commercial (Next to Ukwala) at night, harassing road users. On Saturday, they collect Sh1,000 from every matatu. The whole route has become insecure. Residents are having sleepless nights with incidents of lawlessness almost daily. A few weeks ago, a police officer was killed while the other is in critical condition.*****POLITICAL appointees in the Jubilee administration have hit the ground running to campaign in a bid to keep their jobs. Also hot on the campaign trail are people who enjoy direct political favours. They want the status quo to remain. NASA has complained CSs campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection.They are not afraid to post their pictures branded Uhuru or Jubilee on social media.*****A delayed trip by national carrier Kenya Airways to Abidjan on Saturday night has left more questions than answers. Sources tell Corridors that, after waiting for hours at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, the over 100 passengers were told there was no pilot. But what has left tongues wagging is that all the passengers were then booked at the luxury Weston Hotel (owned largely by Deputy President William Ruto). The accommodation cost of the hotel is usually cleared by the struggling KQ. Why did KQ management bypass all the hotels along Mombasa Road?*****KISUMU Senator Anyang' Nyong'o has received a huge boost in his bid to become the lakeside city's second governor. Well-placed sources hint to Corridors that most of his former competitors for the ODM nomination are now backing his bid. Among those said to have joined the father of Oscar award winner Lupita is youthful architect Chris Ondiek. The flamboyant Ondiek is said to have deep networks in his Nyakach community. In a race that would be influenced by clan and party politics, Nyong'o must be a happy man indeed.