ODM has disowned Nyatike MP Omondi Anyanga as its nominee for the August 8 polls and moved to the court of appeal to have his certificate nullified. Anyanga was on Thursday cleared by IEBC to defend his seat on an ODM ticket having been awarded the party's certificate by the High Court. But in documents filed before the appellate court and seen by the Star, ODM wants Anyanga's nomination and subsequent clearance set aside. “The purported nomination of the 1st Respondent [Anyanga] be nullified and his clearance by the IEBC to contest as a candidate on the ODM Party ticket be recalled and annulled,”part of the ODM appeal papers read in part. ODM is rooting for Union of Kenya Civil Servants secretary general Tom Mboya Odege as its nominee. It had issued Odenge with the nomination certificate before Anyanga moved to the High Court. But in a sworn affidavit, ODM National Election Board secretary Robbert Arunga claims Anyanga forged three nomination certificates. It is one of these “fraudulent” certificates, according to Orange House, that Justice Luka Kimaru certified as genuine in his ruling. "Contrary to law and in an apparent act of impunity, the 1st Respondent forged and made for himself and or fraudulently not one but three nomination certificates which National Elections Board never issued to him," Arunga said. Read: Relief as High Court declares MP Anyanga ODM nominee Also read: Tribunal gives ODM 48 hours to issue Anyanga Nyatike ticket The first such certificate is dated May 7, the next dated May 12, and the last one is dated May 14, he said. ODM also claims that Anyanga had colluded with IEBC officials and manipulated the ODM party list and included his name even before the High Court granted him the orders. In a strongly worded affidafit, Arunga termed Anyanga as a “fraudster and imposter” “A fraudster and imposter is likely to be cleared to contest on the applicant’s ticket using a forged certificate of nomination and this court ought to stop this pending hearing of the appeal as sought,” he said ODM is also poking holes into Justice Kimaru's conclusion that based on the candidates popularity, Anyaga was the most popular. But Orange House says Nyatike nomination were a sham and had been canceled by its National Appeals Tribunal and thus cannot be used to gauge any popularity and award the certificate as was done by the Judge. ODM said that the High Court decision legitimised and sanitised fraud and impunity perpetrated by the MP.