Banks leads other companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange in best corporate governance practices, a new report suggested yesterday. A survey by upstart Cytonn Investments on 50 companies valued in the upwards of Sh1 billion found that KCB Group, the largest lender by market share, was the best governed firm with a score of 91.5 per cent. It was followed by Diamond Trust Bank with 85.4 per cent, while Jubilee Holdings and Standard Chartered Bank both scored 83.3 per cent. Cytonn said it analysed the firms&rsquo; board composition, audit functions, the tenure of the chief executive officer, evaluation, remuneration and transparency for the financial year ended December 2016 in coming up with scores. &ldquo;As our markets expand and firms become more exposed to the public, corporate governance is key to ensuring vibrancy, reducing investor losses and providing a platform for companies to grow in a sustainable manner,&rdquo; Cytonn Investments manager Maurice Oduor said yesterday. In its annual Corporate Governance Index report, Cytonn noted that good corporate governance was directly correlated to performance of shares trading on the bourse. &ldquo;In general, companies have actually improved in terms of their corporate governance structures by about four per cent (year-on-year) across the board,&rdquo; Cytonn&rsquo;s analyst John Ndua said. The firm attributed the improved performance to increased focus on corporate governance as well as heightened regulation by financial services oversight bodies. They are the Central Bank of Kenya, Capital Markets Authority, Nairobi Securities Exchange, Insurance Regulatory Authority, Retirement Benefits Authority and Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority. &ldquo;The top half companies in terms of corporate governance have delivered markedly better returns to their investors with the shares delivering a 43 per cent better return than the bottom half,&rdquo; Cytonn&rsquo;s chief investment officer Elizebeth Nkukuu said. &ldquo;This is a clear indicator that corporate governance matters and investors should factor corporate governance in their investment decisions.&rdquo;