President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday opened a Sh125 million animal resource centre at Sotik to boost livestock production as he campaigned to consolidate Jubilee&rsquo;s support in Bomet county.The liquid nitrogen plant built by the national government, through the Kenya Animal Genetic Resource Centre, produces 50 litres of the key ingredient for preservation of livestock semen used in artificial insemination. The animal resource centre, which serves 16 counties, including Kericho, Kisii and Migori, also operates as a semen bank.Speaking at the event, Uhuru said his administration recognises agriculture as one of the key sectors of the economy, and will continue to invest heavily in it.The President, who was with Deputy President William Ruto, pointed out that the plant will ensure farmers from the region can easily improve their livestock breeds at an affordable price.He said the plant heralds a new opportunity for the youth, because they will be able to use boda bodas to supply AI products to farmers.&ldquo;As Jubilee, we believe in empowering the people by providing opportunities to create wealth and lift the lives of all Kenyans. But our opponents believe to alleviate poverty they have to deny others opportunities,&rdquo; Uhuru said. &ldquo;That is why we have been saying that the difference between Jubilee and the opposition is like day and night.&rdquo;He highlighted steps taken to boost crop and livestock production, citing the recent opening of the Sh500 million new ultramodern milk factory in Eldoret. Uhuru said Sh80 million has been factored in the budget to upgrade the Kenya Cooperative Creameries factory at Sotik to provide a market for dairy farmers. Other measures include the subsidising of fertiliser to Sh1,800, down from Sh6,000 per bag. Uhuru pledged to reduce the price of a bag of fertiliser to Sh1,200 by December. Ruto asked voters to reject Governor Isaac Rutto and elect Jubilee candidates because they are keen on service delivery. He said Joyce Laboso, the National Assembly Deputy Speaker, has the capacity to transform the lives of Bomet residents. Ruto highlighted Jubilee&rsquo;s achievements in the county&rsquo;s health sector, citing the upgrading and equipping of the Longisa and Ndanai health facilities to the status of referral hospitals.