Astronauts John Glenn and Neil Armstrong are well-known figures in the history of America&rsquo;s quest to dominate space. But few people know about the story of the black female mathematicians who helped America achieve this feat.In the book Hidden Figures, author Margot Lee Shetterly brings to light the extraordinary story of a group of African-American women who worked behind the scenes in the aeronautics industry, overcoming immense social and cultural barriers in the racially divided state of Virginia.Shetterly, who grew up in Virginia, used to hear the stories of the women scientists from her father, an engineer. But it wasn&rsquo;t until 2010 that she developed a new curiosity about them, which inspired her to research and write the book that was published in 2016.Labour shortages during World War II brought unprecedented numbers of American women into the workforce. As the role of air force in the war increased, so did the need for better flying machines and scientific manpower.Beginning in the 1940s, the Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory in Virginia, an important research centre in America&rsquo;s NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) programme, started employing women mathematicians. The West Computing group was a special unit created for black women scientists. Working with basic adding machines and slide rules, the women were pored through pages of figures and calculated numbers to produce formulas &ldquo;that would launch rockets, and astronauts, into space&rdquo;.Hidden Figures follows the path of four of these human computers: Dorothy Vaughan, Christine Darden, Mary Jackson and Katherine Johnson. Their stories represent those of dozens of African-American mathematicians who worked the Langley over several decades.A job as a mathematician in a prestigious institution was a huge career leap for minority women with few options beyond teaching at blacks-only schools. Yet inside Langley, these top-notch female scientists waged a quiet but intense battle to prove their abilities and rise up the ranks, amidst white colleagues with traditional views about women and blacks in the workplace. The new work opportunities facilitated the gradual breaking down of racial barriers but ironically, black employees still sat in the coloured section of the Langley staff cafeteria and used the coloured bathrooms. Outside Langley, institutionalised segregation in Virginia meant that there were separate schools, housing estates and even beaches for black and white people.The book is meticulously researched and filled with descriptions of aeronautical engineering. Shetterly infuses lots of personal anecdotes of the women, their families and social lives. She frequently elucidates the context of the day, such as the heated race between American and Russia to dominate space, anti-communism campaigns and civil rights activism. She also uses language that was common at the time, like negro, coloured and black women referred to as girls. Shetterly has a background in banking and media. This is her first novel, for which she won the 2017 Anisfield-Wolf literary award. A movie based on the book won four awards at the African-American Film Critics Association and three nominations, including Best Picture, at the 89th Academy Awards this year.