Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has pledged to reclaim the Galana side of the Galana-Kulalu irrigation scheme if reelected so he can improve food security.He faulted the national government for using it as a cash cow.The expansive irrigation project spans Kilifi and Tana River counties. The Galana side is in Kilifi county.Kingi accused the Jubilee government of sinking billions of taxpayers&rsquo; money into the project with minimal returns.&ldquo;If there was a good idea the Jubilee government had, it was the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project. That project, if well undertaken, would surely make Kenya food secure. It is, however, sad to note that the Jubilee government had other motives other than making the country food secure. The money used does not translate to the maize produced,&rdquo; he said.The government used Sh7 billion on the project and only produced 60,000 bags, he said. &ldquo;Do your calculations to know how much each bag of maize appears to have cost. We must take this project as a county and this I will do once I am reelected.&rdquo;The governor accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto of lying to Kilifi residents that he is responsible for the hunger situation in the county.During the President&rsquo;s visit to commission the Kakuyuni Marafa water project in Marereni in March, residents pleaded with Uhuru to give them food as they were starving due to the drought. The President told them to ask governor, who is in the opposition.&ldquo;Agriculture is devolved and we gave your governor funds. He should be in a position to tell you what he did with the money,&rdquo; Uhuru said then.Kingi then urged the President to relinquish the Galana project if agriculture was fully devolved.&ldquo;If Uhuru knows agriculture was fully devolved, why is he still holding [on to] the multi-billion-shilling Galana-Kulalu irrigation project? Let him give the project to the respective counties and see if Kilifi and Tana River people will starve any more. I did my best to boost agriculture in Kilifi but I do not produce rain,&rdquo; he said.Kingi promised to rally his Tana River counterpart to lobby for devolution of the project.