Kenya is likely to plunge into a constitutional crisis should the court cancel the ballot papers tender awarded to Al Ghurair, Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned. Muigai told court on Friday that canceling the tender will automatically interfere with the election timelines, leading to the postponement of the August 8 polls. And if this happens, he added, a caretaker government will have to be put in place. The government’s chief legal advisor added that this would be a recipe for chaos. In a case which was heard for a marathon seven hours before Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga and John Mativo, both Jubilee and IEBC opposed the petition by Nasa. The National Super Alliance wants the tender cancelled on grounds that President Uhuru Kenyatta - Jubilee candidate, has links to the Dubai-based firm. Their claim is that Jubilee Party is working with the firm, which is printing the presidential ballot papers, to rig the August election in favour of its candidate. Nasa said the credibility of the election is at stake because of the alleged association of the firm and the president. The opposition's lawyer James Orengo argued that relevant stakeholders were not consulted, therefore, the award was irrational. "Cancelling the tender is good for the presidential election. It will serve the interest of the people," Orengo said. He said the contract was pre-determined, biased and in contravention of the Constitution. But while pleading with the three-judge bench to reject the suit, the AG said the crisis staged by the case will be "profound and unprecedented". "After August 8, if we do not have an election, Article 134 of the Constitution kicks in." "This automatically means the government will be completely hamstrung. In fact, the only functioning body will be the Judiciary," Muigai said. The AG said even if the court was to be persuaded by Nasa that IEBC erred by awarding the tender to the Dubai-based firm, the "judges still have the discretion of refusing to make such a radical measure." Muigai said IEBC should be left to do its constitutionally mandated work unless it is proved there was a serious breach. He further argued that Nasa has also failed to point out to the judges the illegality the commission has committed. "They have conceded that IEBC can single source a supplier. They are not saying the company is incapable of supplying the materials sought." "We have a case that raises impressions and perceptions. You are being told the contractor is bad, the supplier is bad. But nothing to back it up," he said. "The consequences are very serious and an abuse of judicial process," Muigai added. Al Ghurair has informed the court that it is currently publishing election materials and has done at least 50 per cent of the work. In seeking to have the tender quashed, Nasa argued that Jubilee intends to stuff ballot papers during the scheduled poll. But Jubilee lawyers argued that Nasa presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga is not truthful by failing to inform the court that he was consulted before the contract was signed. Jubilee also argued that claims by the opposition that Uhuru influenced the tender is erroneous and the claim should be expunged from court records. The party through Fred Ngatia, Abdullahi Ahmednasir and Tom Macharia said political parties should not be allowed to drive the country into a constitutional crisis. The electoral body has offered to take political parties to the printing firm to witness the printing process. But Jubilee opposed the move saying it amounts to interfering with IEBC's work. "Political parties should not be players in the printing of ballot papers," Ngatia said. In offering to send a delegation to Dubai, IEBC said the representatives will help verify the credibility of the process. Agents of the eight presidential candidates, civil society, three representatives from the media, a representative from the Inter-religious Council and a Kebs representative were invited. "The mandate of IEBC is to conduct elections and to procure necessary elections materials. This has not been contested," Ngatia said. The judgement will be delivered next week Friday, July 7. Also read: Al Ghurair denies links with Uhuru in ballot tender suit