The story is told of a hare who, while others were always working, he was the last to wake up and the first to sleep. While his brothers were out exercising and eating healthy for their weekly race, he spent most of his time lazing around.Every week, the hares went to compete with other hares from the nearby village in races. And every time, this particular hare always came in last, costing his brothers victory. While his brothers knew this was due to his laziness, the hare always came up with an excuse for every loss.He would blame the wet ground. Other times he would blame other hares. Other times he blamed the organisers for organising the race weekly. Never at any one time did he blame himself for not exercising and eating well.Since he lost the last election, opposition leader Raila Odinga has been on a mission to castigate the IEBC and blame it for his failures. He has used IEBC as a scapegoat for his losing the presidency three times.His history of shifting his failure to the electoral commissions is well documented, starting with 2007 and then 2013. Just a few months ago, the opposition engineered the removal of the former IEBC commissioners from office and was involved in the selection of the current ones. Now Raila and his opposition brigade are out there creating all manner of doubts on the credibility of the commission.With less than two months to the election, one wonders if Raila really wants Kenyans to go to the polls. One is tempted to think that Raila is not ready for the election and has panicked for fear he will lose to President Uhuru Kenyatta.Just like before, the current attack on the IEBC is unwarranted and suspicious at all levels. The IEBC has done all it can to consult all stakeholders, including the opposition, as it prepares for the election.These latest attacks, as the previous ones, may end up in frivolous court cases delaying preparations for the election. It is also curious that NASA has tried to block all tender processes by the IEBC, from technology to ballot papers.The latest attack on the IEBC over ballot papers is meant to derail the electoral process as NASA has attempted over the past year. Their aim is to create a crisis that will lead to calls for no elections and an attempt to squeeze themselves into government though the backdoor, once again.Raila and the opposition have made every attempt to link the IEBC to Jubilee Party, claiming that the commissioners are Uhuru's puppets. One wonder how is this possible when the commissioners were selected in a bipartisan public process that included public vetting on live TV.It is wrong to always back the IEBC into a corner, instead of allowing it to work and prepare for the election. IEBC cannot adequately prepare for the elections when we keep distracting them with all manner of wild allegations that are not supported by any evidence.NASA should do us all a favour and focus on their campaigns and leave the IEBC to do its work and give us a free and credible election. It is becoming evidently clear that they are scared of the election and want to use every avenue to stop it.Kenyans want a free and fair election. Instead of using backdoor tactics to win, the opposition should focus on winning the hearts and minds of Kenyans to be able to compete with Uhuru.Kenyans are tired of an opposition that keeps peddling politics of division. All patriots and peace-loving Kenyans are asking if NASA wants chaos to reign. Is attacking the IEBC a grand scheme to destabilise the country?