It&rsquo;s the 2nd Saturday of Miss June, the month of single ladies and single moms....#TheRaverend appreciates and celebrates all baby mummies raising kids on their own after the deadbeat dads took off the moment the heat was turned on, leaving the cake in oven without a chef!!! #TheRaverend also celebrates single ladies who are being judged because they have no time for all the broke arse Ben10&rsquo;s who have turned into sperm donors.....Yeah, I said it! As the Sec Gen of #TeamMafisi, today I&rsquo;m calling out all deadbeat dads in the 254... If you know you have a child and you&rsquo;re not supporting the mother financially or emotionally, wewe ni Fisi-Bonoko!!! Back to #TheRaverend&rsquo;s last week&rsquo;s rounds... So Omarion was in town. He even got crowned a Maasai Moran by a random Maasai in the streets of Nairobi. He left the 254 as Ole Omarion!!! Ole-Omarion was on stage for less than 40 minutes, but the Kenyan ladies appreciated his performance....because all they wanted to see him perform was his hit single Distance, period!!! While Omarion was performing and the son of the legend Bob Marley was adopting a lion, Sean Paul was busy bitching as he called out Drake for not properly crediting Jamaican dancehall artists for his incredibly popular songs and sound. In an interview with Metro UK, the No Lie artist discussed Drizzy&rsquo;s 2016 hit One Dance, and said that although the song was good, it would have been even better with the proper &ldquo;accolades&rdquo; for the sound&rsquo;s origins. &ldquo;I think at the time when it was popping off, it would have been good for him [Drake] to actually put accolades towards the whole culture,&rdquo; said the Kingston, Jamaica native of the song&rsquo;s Caribbean flavour. Can someone tell Sean Paul One Dance is more African than Jamaican!!! If Drake was to give credit, he should first appreciate the Afro Pop culture, then maybe dancehall after... From Omarion&rsquo;s concert, dubbed Afro Pop Festival Sunday, the party continued at the B-Club pool party, Diamond Plaza rooftop, hosted by Nigerian sensation Iyanya and Kenya&rsquo;s hottie Habida... The B-Club pool party brings the beach life to the city, with Nairobians getting a chance to show off their sexy bodies as they wear their sexy beachwear. After that, the party moved to 1824 mpaka cheee... Monday was ManDown Monday, as many Kenyans struggled to recover from the heavy pay day weekend or what is also known as end-mouth weekend...To remove the serious lock so that guys can feel normal, I found myself drinking designer beer at Brew Bistro with my skwaaad, who I had to snake when the lock was removed and they decided we do reggae at 1824!!! Tuesday, I was off Ngong at Jiweke Tarvern, the best traffic bar in that side of town...Wednesday I was swinging with Sir Elvis and DjProtege at Gallileo Lounge Countrified night... Thursday, the Kenyan Friday, I was drinking around USIU off Thika Road, and before I decided to go shower and go to work, I found myself at Natives Bar and Grill at 2am, where my Little Cab driver had to remind me I&rsquo;m a slave en I have to be at the plantation Friday 5am... Last night, my head was already activated to Sato mode, so after work, Maina Kageni took me for some nyama at Tamasha Hurligham... For those of you who thought it was closed, you thought wrong. Buffet Park is back in operation, with reggae on Wednesday at Tamasha and the usual soup and cognac all week long!!! Today&rsquo;s best plan is drinking in your respective locals. Waseee na washeeee wa Rongai, party in your republic. The peeps in Far East Dhonee-Kayole, keep it local, no major parties or concerts happening, so no need for road trips... My skwaaad of Westy, tukutane Alchemist ama Privee, en the rest of the Kenyans who drive big cars and like showering with Mo&euml;t Nectar, I will try en keep up with that type of madness at B-Club... As you sit there and think waaaaah #TheRaverend&rsquo;s life is Hectic, think again, because Uhuru Kenyatta is the real Turn-Up King. The president never sleeps. In fact, I have selected him to join me for the next #48Partiesin48hours, to see who is true party king of the 254!!! Be safe, my Ninjas. Don&rsquo;t drink and drive; drink and sleep at the counter. It&rsquo;s safer, plus you definitely live to drink another day!!!Must Do!!! #TheVibe*Jason Derulo landed this morning with like a 20-man skwaaaad for Coke Studio... He&rsquo;s come with a bigger skwaaaad than Trey Songs&rsquo; 8-man crew...To take Jason to Rongai in a ma3 will need more than two Rongai manyangaareee...So all the thirsty mafisilets or queer dudes, watch out for him at a restaurant x hotel x mall x club near you....#TheRaverend recommends Jason Derulo adopts a donkey. I can&rsquo;t stand another celebrity adopting another cat!!!*in the movies, the Amazon Queen Wonder Woman is still the Vibe...En watch out for the world premiere of The Mummy, starring the mbilikimo action star Tom Cruise!!!*In music, #TheRaverend is vibing to Particular, produced by Maphorisa and Major Lazer. I&rsquo;m also vibing to DJ Khaleed&rsquo;s new joint with Chance the Rapper x Wizzy, etc...Also on #TheRaverend&rsquo;s playlist, Bad and Boujee by Migos ft Lil Uzi vert x Black Beatles; Rae Sremmurd ft Gucci Mane, en definitely Aminia by Nyash!!!