Laikipia Senator GG Kariuki, who died on Thursday night,has been termed a pragmatic leader. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga said this in their condolence messages on Friday. Read: Veteran politician GG Kariuki is dead Uhuru said the politician immensely contributed to Kenya's growth and liberation and was one of the few leaders who played a key role in shaping the country’s future. “His contribution will forever be ingrained in our minds and history books. As a young leader during independence, he played a key in resolving land conflicts and the resettlement of squatters," he said in a statement. Uhuru noted Kairuki particularly solved land issues in Laikipia and stood for the rights of all the Kenyans he felt were being trampled by those in authority. He noted the late Senator also played a major role in the struggle for independence and democracy. “He was also at the centre of the second liberation with other leaders who championed for true democracy in our country. As a nation we are truly indebted to him and other founding fathers of our nation." Speaking in Kuria East Constituency on Friday, Raila said the politician understood the perils and joy of public service. "He had a long career as a public servant and is part and parcel of the progress the country has made," he said. He prayed for peace for the family and Laikipia residents. Via Twitter, Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed said Kenya has lost a consummate politician. In a statement to newsrooms, Senate Speaker Ekwee Ethuro said Kariuki was a political mentor. "I have received the news with shock and disbelief. GG Kariuki will be missed by many in parliament," he said. Ethuro, who is out of the country on official duty, also prayed for strength for the family. 'KARIUKI PUSHED FOR DEVELOPMENT' Former Rumuruti councilor Paul Thairu remembered Kariuki's contributions to the construction of Nyahururu-Rumuruti road, Rumuruti hospital, the Rumuruti water project and Kinamba police station. Thairu said the former "powerful" security minister pushed hard for the construction of the police station to ensure security prevailed. Resident David Wachir said he knew the former Laikipia West legislator in 1979 when he was a young boy in primary school. “We would sing for him at Mbogoini Primary School in Kinamba whenever he visited. He would give us exercise and text books because our parents were peasants and could not afford to buy them for us." He noted that Kinamba-Mbogoini road was impassable but that the legislator ensured it was improved. Former county TNA chairman Christopher Maitho mourned Kariuki saying he was a long-time friend and political mentor. Maitho said he knew the politician in 1983 when they were Kanu wingers. “We have lost an adviser and a hero. GG Kariuki was a visionary leader and a very development-minded person. My family sends messages of condolences to the family of widow Mama Mwangi." Maitho said prior to 2013 general elections, the deceased was in the Mkenya Solidarity Movement party but that he managed to convince him to join TNA owing to their long friendship. 