Not even the pleas from the so-called Kalenjin Council of Elders can stop the exodus of voters from the 2013 high-voltage cabinets they were stacked into.The region is seething with clenched teeth as we tiptoe into the August 8 General Election.The rebellion against the ruling Jubilee Party in Kalenjinland can no longer be downplayed. It is real. It is crystallising in worrying proportions.The council&rsquo;s chairman, Major (Rtd) John Seii marshalled his troops to Nakuru county recently. The grey-haired respected gentlemen went to work pleading with the Kalenjin-speaking Rift Valley to &ldquo;kindly work together for the betterment of the community&rdquo;.Seii might as well have been singing to the crows and hornbills hovering above the heads of the elders. For those who cared to listen keenly to their pleas, there was absolutely nothing new from the well-meaning elders.Seii has been pursuing this elusive Kalenjin unity thing for the last three years, but all in vain. When he started this crusade, his hair was a sprinkle of grey, but now, it is as white as the Californian snow. This shows how stressful and how energy-wasting this unity animal is.His wife, Tabitha, is ODM chair in Elgeiyo-Marakwet county. In her heyday, she vied for the Elgeiyo South constituency parliamentary seat on the PNU ticket. Although she was white-washed, her party nominated her to Parliament.She is currently on the list of ODM&rsquo;s nominees to the East African Legislative Assembly, thanks to her dalliance with the opposition party.Major Seii has never advised his wife against &ldquo;dividing the community&rdquo; because it is everyone&rsquo;s inalienable right to choose his or her party.It is the same reason the Kalenjin vote is now a hot commodity moving fast out of the shelves like the Sh90 maize flour. The vote has been grabbed, triggering an avalanche of reactions and counter-reactions from all over the region. Anyone who is someone in the community can demand a piece of the vote bloc depending on his or her ability to sustain a following.Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has run away with a huge chunk of the South Rift vote. When he registered his Chama Cha Mashinani party, some regional leaders chided him calling his party &lsquo;mashimoni&rsquo; (abyss) only for its fire to engulf the South Rift and other parts of the country. It is now a fire-fighting crusade for those who called the no-nonsense governor bluff.More than three-quarters of the Kipsigis and the Maasai vote has vanished into the ODM and Chama Cha Mashinani parties. Narok is a CCM county. Kajiado county is in no hurry to leave the opposition table. The Tugens, who occupy Baringo county, are slowly trooping back to Kanu. To them, the move is as nostalgic as it is sentimental, thanks to President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s 52 years innational politics. The Tugens have an attachment to the Moi family that keeps hovering over their heads day-in-day out. And it is understood. This community owes its development to the 24 years of the Nyayo era. Devolution goodies are just the icing on the cake but the foundation is undeniably a Moi thing.But this is not to mean that all the Tugens are singing Kanu&rsquo;s Baba na Mama chorus. No. Almost half of the population, especially the old, would like to give JP another term in office. But there are places in the county that are a no-go zone for the UhuRuto party. The Pokots of Baringo are largely found in Tiaty constituency.The Ilchamus, too, seem to be leaning towards NASA.Tiaty has slipped into NASA&rsquo;s warm embrace and this is why: The community is angered by the gazettement of their constituency as a dangerous and disturbed area following the recent conflict that saw hundreds killed and thousands of livestock stolen from the neighbouring Tugen and the Ilchamus communities.Second, the security agents stormed the troubled area like Hurricane Katarina leaving in their wake dead men, women and children. Their livestock is not safe from bullets. Hundreds of houses have been set on fire.Are the 40 or so remaining days to the General election sufficient for JP to win back lost ground?