It was an ordinary Thursday at work two weeks ago for Kevin Anyango, an international development expert currently a manager with Laureus Sport for Good Foundation in London.While engaging other like-minded Kenyans on Twitter in a political discussion, he joined a chat where a Nairobi governor hopeful was answering voters&rsquo; questions.The politician is known to ask and answer questions over the social media platform, and that is how Kevin, @mKevoh, asked a question. The politician then hit back with a response:&ldquo;Voters are not eggs or aliens. I also speak with voters like people with brains. Not lobotomised cartel surrogates like you.&rdquo;And the post could just not go away. It was shared 21 times on Facebook alone. The comments were as serious as the effects of the post. One user commented that the governor aspirant blocked him on Twitter for airing views that he did not like.Cyberbullying is a menace in Kenya, with threats of killings, suicides, hate and war mongering reported on online platforms.Only a week ago, a Kenyan woman, Brenda Akinyi, took her own life after she could not cope with depression. According to media reports, Brenda had relationship problems, as well as sexual abuse by a police officer. She lost hope and was always online, looking for help.Her friend said Brenda sought help in Facebook groups, which unfortunately turned on her and accused her of lying. The effect of comments that readers offered for her plight are among the events that led to her jumping before a car on Waiyaki Way, report say.Just last week, too, popular gospel singer Jimmy Gait sobbed on TV as he explained how he was bullied by Kenyans on Twitter after releasing a song titled Yesu ni Sponsor. Indeed, cyberbullying is alive here in Kenya.&ldquo;Differing with another internet user is not the problem. The issue is when one person wants to make another feel less important, effectively making them lose their self-esteem due to online bullying,&rdquo; Kevin said in an email interview.Along with friends, Kevin has come up with a Facebook page to help the month-long campaign to educate Kenyans on the devastating effect of bullying others on the virtual space. The page is also on Twitter: #KenyaAgainstCyberbullying. It carries out discussions on how to fight cyber bullying and free up the virtual space for wholesome conversations.Cyber attacks, according to the UN, involve illegal behaviour targeting security of computer systems and data processed by them. They can take different forms, including hacking, malware installation, phishing and denial of services.These cyber attacks happen through information exchange without physical contact between the attacker and the victim. So, at the individual level, direct physical harm is almost non-existent. The harm is mostly emotional, psychological and reputational. In some cases, cyberspace communications can result in actual physical harm. For example, a victim of cyber bullying may be pushed to commit suicide or a hacker may use the gained data to track a victim and commit rape or murder. But these cases are isolated and indirect.The recently approved Computer and Cybercrimes Law is expected to monitor, control and get rid of cyber crimes, which have been on the rise in the country.The law, which the President approved in April, criminalises cyber offences such as computer fraud, cyber-stalking, child pornography and unauthorised access to computerised systems.The law will link the legislation and investigation of cyber crimes with technological and law tools for tangible evidence that will help with prosecution. Offenders who knowingly access computer systems without authorisation now face stringent penalties, including a fine of up to Sh5 million or imprisonment of up to three years or both, depending on the magnitude of the crime.Information Technology, Security and Assurance, Isaca, an organisation that tracks internet security, said in a June 2016 report that 3,000 cyber-crime related incidents are reported in Kenya every month.The country is not only losing lives, but also billions of shillings to cybercrime criminals. A Deloitte report released in February said that up to Sh17.7 billion was lost to cyber crime in 2016 alone. The report ranked Kenya as the 69th most vulnerable country in the Global Threat Index.