AFC Leopards&rsquo; marksman Gilbert Fiamenyo will miss the rest of the season after picking an injury while in training. The 24-year-old striker who has found the back of the net five times in the league since his capture from Ghananian club, Hearts of Oak, left the country yesterday to his motherland, where he will be seeking specialised treatment.Confirming the news, Leopards chairman Dan Mule said: &ldquo;Fiamenyo has been struggling with an injury since his signing. He has been limping and it escalated after the Sportpesa Super Cup. He requested for a sabbatical leave to his country for further treatment and we had to let him go.&rdquo;The newly acquired duo of Alex Kitenge and Ray Omondi will fill in for the void left by the Ghananian as he continues to recuperate. &ldquo;We have already signed Kitenge and Omondi who will replace Fiamenyo.The upset leaves the 12-time champions scratching their heads in search of an extra player, who will offer the much sought striking sharpness. &ldquo;We are also in the process of signing another player whom we are not going to reveal before the paper work is done, probably next week.&rdquo; Ingwe had earlier signed Ugandan Keziron Kizito from Vipers and Musa Mudde from Bandari.Meanwhile, Gor Mahia are on the verge of signing Boniface Omondi from Nzoia Sugar as the club seek to bolster their striking force. The lanky forward who featured for National Super League side Agro-Chemical before ditching to Nzoia Sugar joins his team-mate Joachim Oluoch in Gor&rsquo;s wish list.According to the club&rsquo;s deputy secretary general Ronald Ngala, negotiations for the duo are ongoing with the paper work almost done. &ldquo;We have engaged Nzoia on the possible transfer of the two and the paper work is almost through. Once the paper work is done, we will begin individual negotiations for the contracts. The progress is good and we are confident we will snatch them before the transfer window closes.&rdquo;Omondi, who has netted five goals with Nzoia will provide the required pace and competition in the striking force which has failed to produce a replica of their goal machine Michael Olunga who left to pursue his European dream two seasons ago.The depth in the club&rsquo;s playing unit and the maximum foreign quota of foreign players required per club has forced the 15-time champions to be quiet in the transfer window thus failing to bring in big names unlike in the past. Gor have loaned their youthful Teddy Osok to second tier side KCB for a span of six months.