A wealthy gubernatorial aspirant is on the spot for buying national ID cards in Embu. Residents of Runyenjes and Manyatta, where the aspirant is not popular, said some of his agents are enticing them with Sh1,000 to temporarily keep their IDs until after the August 8 election. Embu county commissioner Esther Maina (pictured) has warned the wealthy politician this is illegal and the law will deal with him sternly. Opponents say the aspirant has already sensed defeat.AN ODM MP nominee is said to be working in cahoots with an Orange House official and a top brass party official from Homa Bay to teach a lesson to MCAs who did not toe their line during the nominations. The leaders have reportedly sponsored court cases against the &lsquo;rebel&rsquo; MCAs and have vowed to use their deep pockets to ensure the targetted assembly nominees lose the court cases and have the party do a replacement with those in their good books. Last week, supporters of the said ODM MP nominee went boasting to one of the targetted MCAs, a day before the court verdict, telling him exactly what was to be rendered by the judge the following day.A leading parliamentary candidate in one of Embakasi&rsquo;s five constituencies is a man under siege. Reason? Corridors has been told his accounts have been frozen after colossal sums of money landed in them within an hour from different national government ministries. That alone raised suspicions why the payments were done in a single day. Our moles tell us the contracts were shoddy and irregularly awarded. The investigating agents have been asked to take action. Still, it&rsquo;s rumoured that the candidate has already accessed part of the cash and is spending heavily on his campaigns.Residents of Buruburu and other estates in Eastlands have asked the Managing Director of the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company, Philip Gichuki, to order investigations into what they say is a technical and political water shortage. For the last one month, the water supply in densely populated Eastlands has been fluctuating and at times taps run dry for weeks on end. It is reported that some of the regional managers have been colluding with some city politicians to switch off the main supply pipe to technically cause a shortage, then the said politicians pledge to supply water. This is meant for political millage. They now want Gichuki to move with speed and arrest the situation by reshuffling some of the staff in the region they accuse of failing to respond, even when alerted.