Fine dining is holding its own in restaurants like Sikia, located at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Nairobi&rsquo;s Upper Hill district. The restaurant is on the mezzanine floor and the glass wall on one side overlooks the bustling lobby below. Carpeted floors, starched white linens, high-back armchairs and colourful African artwork create an elegant setup. INTERNATIONAL DISHESSikia, meaning to hear or experience in Kiswahili, aims to captivate all the senses with &lsquo;exquisite dining experiences&rsquo;. They serve an array of international dishes infused with of local flair. The starters range from a Mixed Salad and Garden Salad to classics of Chicken Galantine and Beef Carpaccio. The Soup Duo is a colourful and delicious blend of butternut and asparagus. Alongside European hot starters of Classic Escargot and Mushroom Vol-au-Vent are Plantain Fritters and a Warm Lentil and Scallop Salad.The Seared Salmon, served in a generous portion with vanilla-flavoured arrowroot mash, is tender and tasty. Other commendable dishes are the Roast Baby Chicken, while the hot-as-you-like Prawns Masala curry is bound to fire up your tongue. Steak-lovers have the option of a Filet Mignon, Beef Wellington in puff pastry, or a prime beef Rib Eye with Kenyan black-eyed beans. UGALI AND IRIOThe main courses are accompanied by African foods, such as savoury grilled ugali, iro, sweet potato mash, arrowroot dauphinoise, and irio.The vegetarian selection features Pasta Parcels, Moon Dhal Curry, Risotto and Vegetable Crepes.The wine list is wide-ranging and one wall of the restaurant is filled with a rack of wine bottles. The juices are freshly squeezed, and I enjoyed the cool orange juice. The quiet ambience of Sikia makes it a suitable venue for a business lunch, but it is also an ideal place for an intimate dinner or family evening. COAT STANDS AND SIDE TABLESLittle touches, such as coat stands for men&rsquo;s jackets and small side tables for ladies&rsquo; handbags, add to the finesse. I found the service crew quick and attentive to detail without being overbearing.Sikia is a member of the Chaine des Rotisseurs, an international association that recognises restaurants for excellence in food and beverages. Sikia is open from Monday to Saturday for lunch and dinner.LOCATION: Crowne Plaza Hotel, NairobiContacts: 0719 103455, 020 2746019Star rating: 4/5