Understandably, after the recent severe drought and accompanying crop diseases, the cost of basic foods is now a key agenda ahead of the August polls.A few weeks before Election Day, each candidate is struggling to ensure his or her voice on the issue is heard, and blame is apportioned. While this debate is to be welcomed, we should be very wary about some of the populist unachievable proposals bandied around, especially by NASA candidate Raila Odinga and his brigade. Raila has on numerous occasions over the last few months bombastically promised to lower the cost of basic foods and living, even claiming they will deliver in 90 days. This last part is perhaps the most glaring example of why Raila&rsquo;s promises to make such sweeping changes in the country in his first 90 days as President &mdash; despite having held positions of power for decades &mdash; already need to be taken with a serious grain of salt. Just look at Kibera.Of course, it will be bureaucratically impossible for him to do anything of significance in the first 90 days because the results have to be confirmed, a new Cabinet would have to be vetted and Parliament sworn in. Beyond this promise, however, not a single further detail has been given about how &ldquo;Joshua&rdquo; will achieve this miraculous outcome.To seriously lower the cost of basic goods &mdash; not just for a month or two, but for the long term &mdash; one must deal with issues of infrastructure, markets and assist farmers increase their capacity at lower costs.These are all areas that the Uhuru Kenyatta -led government has been addressing over the last four years, and can be trusted to build upon. They understood early into their term that a holistic strategic overhaul of the way Kenyans receive their basic foods would have to be undertaken.First, access to water has been ensured through dozens of projects across all counties, which have been implemented to not only increase access to water, but also reduce the amount of time and distance to the water sources. Even in the most arid area, the distance has been reduced to an average of 5km, and the hours of water supply have been substantially increased to an average of 18 hours a day.The less time it takes for someone to get water, the more time they can spend on growing crops and increasing productivity.Furthermore, 60 large-scale dams are at various stages of construction, which will be game changers in irrigation. The national irrigation scheme has been rehabilitated and expanded by more than 27,000 acres between 2013-16.Another gamechanger for the Kenyan goods market is the enormous infrastructure and transportation growth that has taken place under this government. Almost 10,000km of new roads have been built or are under various stages of construction across the country. Journeys that would take farmers days now take a few hours. This will have a great effect on the time it takes for the produce to reach the shelves and massively lessen waste.Just one example is the journey from Moyale to Nairobi, which has been reduced from three days (72 hours) to just seven hours.The SGR has cut travel time from Nairobi to Mombasa from over 12 hours to just four. This train will bring down the cost of transport and open up businesses, economic and industrial zones along the route. This has all been achieved in part to increase the capacity of thousands of farmers to produce their products and transport them to the markets. However, an area that was most in need of attention was the direct assistance given to farmers, which is crucial to not only improve their conditions, but also improve national food security.The government has increased access to farm inputs such as seeds and machinery, and provided 521,047MT of subsidised fertiliser to farmers. This reduced the cost of production and enhancing the incomes of our farmers.Jubilee has greatly assisted Kenyan milk producers to become more competitive by aggregating them into cooperatives, increasing their productivity and bargaining power. This programme will be implemented for farmers and other producers of basic foods, especially in the need to lower the cost of items such as grain, pesticides and machinery. This will in turn have a knock-on effect for the consumer, lowering the prices they see in the store.These are just a few of the steps President Uhuru and his government have taken in the past four years. While some changes will not be noticed overnight, economic plans demand long-term strategy &mdash;not short-term political populism. This strategic journey will ensure that in the future, issues of food, water and farming will not be left to the vagaries of our region&rsquo;s unpredictable weather.This is how food prices are lowered, and the journey has begun. Anyone who claims to have quick fix solutions has no concrete long-term strategic plan of action, and is only interested in populist slogans and more votes rather than helping Kenyans.The writer is the MP Kitui South