Opposition leader Raila Odinga has demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta sacks three top government officials over the current food shortage. Raila said the officials should be relieved of their duties for misleading Kenyans about the food situation in the country. He called for the sacking of CSs Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution), his Agriculture counterpart Willy Bett and Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe. The NASA presidential flag bearer said the unga crisis in the country is man-made. "The hunger is spreading yet supermarkets are running dry of not just the subsidised unga but all sorts of maize flour. This is clearly manufactured." "It is a famine created and driven by a regime of incompetence, corruption and bad politics," Raila said. He spoke at his Capitol Hill office in Nairobi on Wednesday. Raila told the head of state to take full responsibility for the hunger and speedily source maize from Ethiopia. The government stepped in to subsidise maize flour setting the price of 2kg packs at Sh90 and 1kg packs for about half the price. "Uhuru must get on the earliest flight to Ethiopia to ask his counterpart to sell us maize because it will not only be cheaper but will also get here faster." "When he was faced with the ICC matter, he continuously lobbied Ethiopia for support. Why is he finding it inconvenient to appear there for the sake of hungry Kenyans?" the opposition chief asked. He said a series of forums were convened by the East African Grain Council and the East African Trade and Investment Hub to convince Kenya to purchase the surplus 300,000 tonnes grain from Ethiopia but the government has since imported only 60,000 tonnes. "While the government was denying that there was an imminent food shortage, the East Africa Grain Council was urging Kenya to accept the surplus harvest from Ethiopia to meet the shortage," he said. On March 7, EAGC and EATIH convened a meeting in Addis Ababa with a delegation from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Mozambique, Zambia, Malawi and Zimbabwe to discuss the removal of barriers to enable grain traders into Ethiopia. But Raila complained that Kenya refused to lift its trade barriers with Ethiopia, and it was not until mid-April that duty was lifted on maize coming to Kenya. "This appears to have been a deliberate move to profit some people because the timing coincided with the purchase of maize from Mexico." Raila called on the Jubilee administration to remove the responsibility of importing maize from private millers and entrust it to a well-deserved fund to cushion Kenyans. "The government has brought only 60,000 tonnes of Ethiopian maize of which only 25,000 tonnes have arrived in Kenya." "Maize from Mexico is 45 days away by sea on the other part of the world, but Ethiopia is only one day away by road," the ODM leader said. Read: DP Ruto blames governors for the unga crisis during Likoni tour  