New business models which banks submitted to the regulator in April will help them remain sustainably profitable, the Central Bank of Kenya governor Patrick Njoroge has said. &ldquo;All banks did submit the new models and we are now in the process of discussing with them to understand how they are reacting not just to the interest rate cap but more generally to the things that are happening in our economy,&rdquo; Njoroge said. &ldquo;Banks need to be more resilient because shocks will come.&rdquo; Lenders, which have been relying largely on interest income from customer loans, posted significant decline in net profit during the first quarter of 2017. Most of them attributed the reduced earnings to the effects of the interest rate cap. &ldquo;Banks have yet to engage their new business models. They are still working under their old models,&rdquo; Njoroge said. In the January-March period, top-tier banks reported post-tax declines where StanChart reported the largest drop of 20.54 per cent followed by Barclays at 19.72 per cent, KCB at 8.35 per cent, Co-op at 5.83 per cent and Equity down 5.64 per cent. CBK data shows that the number of loan applications increased by 23.4 per cent between August 2016 and April 2017 while the value of loan applications fell by 18.3 per cent, suggesting smaller size of loan applications. During the period the number of loan approvals increased by 35.7 per cent while their value dropped 16.3 per cent. &ldquo;There has been tightening of credit standards which has led to the lower value in loans taken,&rdquo; Njoroge said. Banks warned that a further dip in private sector loans growth was likely to be witnessed into the second quarter of the year (April-June) as banks continue investing in government securities and assets with higher returns. Njoroge however noted that there had been a rebound in private sector credit growth to private households, manufacturing, and real estate in March and April which had witnessed a slump following the rate cap. &ldquo;A key factor is how banks adjust their business models in the new environment. This is a shift from lazy banking to real banking,&rdquo; Njoroge said.