President Uhuru Kenyatta's Elgeyo Marakwet tour was marred by bandit attacks and hostility in in Chesongoch and Chepkorio.In Chesongoch, a herder was shot in the right hand near Kerio River by attackers suspected to be from Baringo East. The incident took place about 5kms from where the President addressed a crowd.Robert Kareuno, 35, was rushed to Chesongoch Mission Hospital after the shooting on Saturday.Marakwet East police boss said Lemmy Njiru said Kareuno was herding livestock when the bandits, whose number was not established, raided the area.&ldquo;They crossed to Baringo with seven cows. Police officers are pursuing them. We are confident about recovering the animals since our officers followed them immediately,&rdquo; Njiru said.The bandits are said to have capitalised on a security lapse as police and reservists secured Uhuru's rally.Uhuru's earlier message was that Jubilee is committed to security for all Kenyans and has given enough resources for this.Noting the aim is to foster growth, he said officers and Kenya Police Reservists deployed to different parts have curbed insecurity.More on this: Your security is Jubilee's priority, Uhuru tells Kenyans during Elgeyo tourIn Chepkorio, the President came face to face with rowdy supporters of Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos (Jubilee Party) and Moses Changwony (Independent).Crowds jeered at Tolgos before the President after he spoke without inviting Changwony. The people chanted, forcing the Governor to invite his rival to restore calm.Read: Crowd shouts down Tolgos, demand address by independent candidate Moses ChangwonyTolgos told the President that he will defeat the independent candidate in the August 8 poll.&ldquo;Your excellency, leave this to me. I will deal with him in August. He also competed with me in 2013 and I trounced him,&rdquo; he said.In continuing criticism of the Opposition ahead of the general election, Uhuru said they are propagandists with no agenda for Kenya's transformation.He raised the issue of the funds, asking where the money he is using for projects was during the grand coalition government.&ldquo;Have you ever asked yourself where all this money we are using in development was [at that time]? Today these propaganda people say Jubilee has done nothing yet they were in the grand coalition government. What did they do for Kenyans?&rdquo; he said.Uhuru praised his first term in office as he dished out goodies in the county. He noted residents have benefited from Jubilee projects including Nyaru-Iten, Kapsowar Iten and Chesoi-Tot roads.The President said the government has used Sh1.1 billion for the Iten/Tambach water project and is planning to compensate families displaced in the defunct fluorspar mining company in the Kerio Valley in two weeks.Read more: State to compensate Kerio Valley landowners affected by fluorspar miningUhuru said work on Nyaru-Iten road has started while the Kimwarer multipurpose dam project will be implemented by Kerio Valley Development Authority in July. Earlier in Chesongoch, Marakwet East, the President said the Marakwet community will benefit in more state appointments in the second term.He said relief food will be distributed in Kerio Valley starting next week to feed starving families affected by bandit attacks.