For any democratic election to be free and fair, the following conditions need to prevail.First, there needs to be rules of the game, based on democratic principles, which are known to all voters, including the players in the game of elections, ie political parties and candidates.Second, these rules of the game, beginning with the Constitution as the mother of all laws, need not only be known but be acceptable to all players.Third, the institution refereeing the elections, in our case the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, needs not only to be founded by laws that are acceptable and legitimate, but it must also be viewed and acceptable by the players as legitimate, impartial, capable and dependable.Fourth, the votes need to be cast through a system that has integrity from the polling station to the final tallying centre, where the results are announced. Fifth, voters need to be reassured that when they cast their votes, each will count as a single ballot and no other voter will cast more than one vote.Sixth, voters need to be reassured that when the votes are cast, they will be announced at the polling station without falsifying any figures. When they are announced they will be properly collated, and when collated the outcome will reflect the exact position of figures transmitted from the polling stations.Finally, the final announcements made by returning officers at the various levels of representation need to be acceptable as correct and legitimate by all players. In other words, while the victors celebrate their victory the losers need to accept the results as legitimate.What is the situation in Kenya today?First, in regards to the rules of the game, Kenyans generally accept the Constitution as a sound foundation for our democratic governance. The rules, however, that are derived from the Constitution to guide electoral practice, are not all that universally accepted. They seem to be frequently questioned and held in suspicion when it comes to the frameworks they provide to conduct elections, identify the personnel who run the process and safeguard election outcomes.Second, the government, as the custodian of all state institutions, has not done very well in socialising the citizens as well as the players in the electoral process, particularly in distinguishing between rights and entitlements. The state should guarantee every citizen his or her rights. Citizens should, in return, not expect any entitlement as a result of political affiliation, affinity to political power or identity within &ldquo;the deep state.&rdquo; Where entitlements override everything else in citizens&rsquo; expectations in relations within the state, it is unlikely that such citizens will accept electoral processes based on the sanctity of the vote and the one-man-one-vote principle.Third, whereas the IEBC is a creature of the Constitution shaped by laws legitimately passed by Parliament, it has continued to suffer some deficits of legitimacy, further complicated by questions of integrity in the procurement of goods and services. The IEBC therefore enters this final stretch towards the August 8 election like a wounded buffalo. Bedevilled by past ghosts of both corruption and impunity by its predecessor, the IEBC has not managed to cut a new and convincing image of itself. It runs the risk of being defensive regarding its shortcomings, and running into the arms of the incumbent regime for protection against public criticism of incompetence, partiality and aimlessness.Fourth, following the amendments to the election laws that the government rushed through Parliament with no regard to consensus between the opposition and the ruling party, tension still exists regarding the impartiality of the IEBC officials should the use of a manual system of identifying voters at the polling station arise. One could as well envisage a situation where this leads to a crisis, which paralyses voting on Election Day should agents disagree on the impartiality of this system. This would be a recipe for chaos ab initio.Fifth, under such circumstances, it will be very difficult for voters to be convinced that some people will not be able to vote more than once, especially in areas where voter apathy is high and presiding officers decide to increase a false voter turnout by allowing double, triple or even quintuple casting of ballots.Sixth, one can, therefore, understand the significance of making the counting of votes at the polling station final and their announcement at the constituency level after collation final. It is an early warning to the IEBC of the dangers of resorting to a massive use of the manual process as an excuse for rigging. It has even been speculated that some BVRs may be programmed in such a way that they will read more than one name as a voter seeks identification, hence disenfranchising subsequent voters whose thumbprints will not be recognised since &ldquo;they will have already voted.&rdquo; The IEBC needs to dispel such rumours before they prove to be a disastrous reality on voting day.Finally, I am beginning to have the sneaky feeling that the coming election is not going to be free and fair. It is one thing for President Uhuru Kenyatta to say that he is prepared to accept defeat and somebody accepting possible defeat as an incumbent facing a highly competitive election, this is very commendable. A higher level of &ldquo;assurance quotient&rdquo; is quite often expected from those in power rather than those seeking to enter state power. But for the President again to say, a few days later, that &ldquo;my friend Raila Odinga should never dream of occupying state power; he should forget it. I am prepared to give him a good retirement package&rdquo; flies in the face of the sincerity with which the first noble reassurance was given. Hence the continued doubt by the opposition that &ldquo;the government&rdquo; is committed to a free and fair election.Can the political environment for free and fair election be guaranteed? This is a desired need but a herculean task, particularly because there is such a low &ldquo;reassurance quotient&rdquo; on the part of both the state and the regime. The President is hence asking Raila an irrelevant question regarding whether or not he is prepared to accept defeat at the election. With a reasonably high &ldquo;reassurance quotient&rdquo; from both the state and the regime, I am sure Raila&rsquo;s answer would definitely be in the affirmative. At the moment, however, were I to be the opposition leader, I would safely hold my horses and seek for drastic improvement in the political environment for holding free and fair elections before I say anything in the affirmative or to the contrary. Improving the political environment for free and fair elections is a much more needed engagement than answering the first question in Uhuru&rsquo;s examination paper on &ldquo;2017 Presidential Election 101.&rdquo;