Jubilee Party has deployed senior civil servants in Kisii and Nyamira counties to campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta.Some of the officials who accompanied Uhuru during his tour of the two counties include Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i, Youth Fund chief executive Josiah Moriasi, Social Protection PS Susan Mochache, Ken Osinde, the chief of staff in Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s office and National Building Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora.Jubilee has adopted a three-pronged approach in its bid win the Kisii vote. The party has deployed civil servants, politicians and opinion leaders to woo voters.Nyamira and Kisii counties are seen as NASA strongholds.&ldquo;We worked hard in the last election to ensure President Uhuru got more than 25 per cent [of the votes] in the two counties. This time round, we want to ensure we reach up 50 percent,&rdquo; former Kisii mayor, Sam Nyangeso, said.He continued, &ldquo;The other day ODM leaders said they will deliver the Kisii vote to Raila, but they are in for a rude shock this time round.&rdquo;Kitutu Masaba MP and ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire faulted Jubilee for using civil servants to campaign.He said JP leaders have panicked and resorted to using unlawful ways to woo voters.Bosire said, &ldquo;Jubilee has deployed public servants in Kisii and Nyamira with huge chunks of money to campaign for them. These people are blackmailing voters, instead of telling them what JP has done to deserve another five years.&rdquo;Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, he said it is against the public service code of conduct for public servants to engage in politics. Bosire said, &ldquo;Jubilee is a falling regime desperately trying to survive.&rdquo;He said some civil servants have abandoned their duties in Nairobi and are focussed on campaigning for Jubilee. &ldquo;Some of these people are well educated people and should not allow themselves to be misused. They should not succumb to intimidation,&rdquo; Bosire said.Political analyst and advocate Edward Begi said the public servants may not help JP.&ldquo;Some of them are not known in Kisii. They live in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa. They only come here during funerals of close relatives, so their acceptability is almost nil. They are seen as aliens and perceived with suspicion,&rdquo; he said.Begi said it will be difficult for JP to get more votes than last time. &ldquo;Jubilee in Kisii is a club of a few individuals. Failure to conduct nominations messed the party further,&rdquo; he said.Begi said NASA remains strong in Kisii and could garner up to 80 per cent of the vote from the Gusii region.His sentiments were shared by Nyamira Education executive Jones Omwenga. &ldquo;Kisii and Nyamira counties will overwhelmingly vote for Raila,&rdquo; he said.