The IEBC needs to put their house in order. They must realise the burden and responsibility that is bestowed upon them as far as the General Election is concerned. Remember the last time we got close to a civil war was in 2007, as a result of the conduct of the then electoral body, the now-defunct ECK. The IEBC should try to inspire confidence as evidenced by the challenges in the procurement process. Particularly the procurement of the Kenya Integrated Election Management System - the technology and also the problems we are seeing in regard to the procurement of ballot papers.The election is a big money business. There are substantial vested interests by the business community right inside the IEBC. Because of the vested interests, the businesspeople that do not get the contracts are also very quick to run to court, to challenge the decisions that have been made. But you see the problem, if you allow people in procurement to do things entirely aboveboard, we will not end up with this situation.There is no evidence of kickbacks at the current IEBC, but I won&rsquo;t discount that, especially with the problems of procurement that face the institution. The first one was technology and now the ballot saga. The question is why the IEBC did not move to begin the procurement of ballot papers early enough. There is an attempt, and you can feel that the people in the IEBC want to give it to Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing Company, the Dubai firm, despite an earlier ruling by the High Court that the process was filled with irregularities. It is true that there was evidence the process was filled with irregularities. I don&rsquo;t think they are prepared for the election. The infighting we are seeing between the secretariat and the commission says a lot. If what is reported is anything to go by, it will mess up all preparations. We are faced with extremely complex polls. We are the only country probably holding six elections at the same time on the same day. Finally, the IEBC must enhance their communication and transparency, especially when dealing with the political parties. Instead of wasting time with unnecessary issues, the IEBC should focus on preparing for the election.The IEBC should be transparent and give the reasons why people were sacked. Odhiambo is Country Director, Electoral Law and Governance Institute in Africa