In some countries, a government leading the nation in the wrong direction is not just reason enough for the President and his leadership to be voted out, but to also resign, sometimes forced through mass demonstrations as we have seen in South Korea and Brazil. This would lead to an early election to give the country an alternative leadership that would take the people to the Promised Land, where they want to go. And the bottom line here is, when a government doesn't take the people in the direction they want, and as promised in the previous election, the solution is for the country to replace that leadership with a better alternative. Reelecting a failed administration is not only nonsensical, but it also equates committing a 'national suicide'. In countries where leadership is given its correct definition, it does not mean opportunity for leaders to enrich themselves. It is their rare chance to serve the people. And that means when those leaders don't deliver that leadership should be taken away from them.The responsibility to ensure this transition of power from a failed administration to a promising alternative falls squarely on the people. After all, as one proverb says &ldquo;A change &ndash; even of leadership &ndash; is as good as a rest.&rdquo; Another says, &ldquo;A stay in one place will attract vermin.&rdquo; Continuing with the leadership of President Uhuru and DP Ruto can only attract more problems to us. Because solving problems is leaders&rsquo; primary business, of necessity, they should be relieved of leadership, as soon as they are no longer able to solve people&rsquo;s problems, as is the case with UhuRuto today. And the problems the Jubilee leadership is unable to solve are as galore as those our triple ideologies of corruption, dictatorship and negative ethnicity create for us. Foremost, Uhuru and Ruto have proved beyond doubt that they are completely unable to resolve the corruption problem, which now seems to engulf the whole country. In both Brazil and South Korea, where leaders have been forced out of government, it has been over the graft issue. Yet Kenya has more corruption than was enough to bring down the governments of Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and now Uhuru. Negative ethnicity has been another problem that has helped not just to divide but also destroy the country. And given its active capacity to destroy this country as it nearly destroyed Rwanda through the 1994 Genocide, any leader who condones this killer ideology for political use must never be reelected. Yet I believe negative ethnicity is the glue that binds the marriage between Uhuru and Ruto. The third ideology that destroys our beloved country is dictatorship whether it is at the national, regional or community level. And because neither Uhuru nor Ruto are known to have fought dictatorship, it is very difficult to trust them with protection of democracy, freedom and rights either now or in the future. Together these ideologies have brought forth several social consequences. First, instead of eradicating poverty, the poor have become jigger-infested. Worse, under Uhuru and Ruto, the people have become so used to poverty that they have lost all desire to fight it. Two, without serious efforts by UhuRuto and those before them to create new industries or revive dead ones that were killed with the advice of the World Bank and IMF, instead of youth looking forward to early employment, they kill themselves early with killer, illegal brews. Three, common hunger has become an inevitable by-product of poverty, unemployment and lack of development in Kenya&rsquo;s semi-arid areas. And when poor people are not starving, they are living on one inadequate meal a day. Four, as hunger and poverty have been reinforcing diseases class apartheid has created a public health system with such poor supply of medicine, doctors and nurses that instead of public hospitals becoming places of salvation, they have become graveyards of poor people.Five, the final disqualification of reelection for Uhuru and Ruto is making the cost of living unaffordable by not controlling prices of foods and other basic commodities. If for nothing else, government failure to control prices of basic commodities is sure disqualification of the reelection of Uhuru and his deputy Ruto.