We need to exercise more. Last year, the Health ministry announced that over a third of women in Kenya are either overweight or obese. More than six million adults have excess fat, with 28 per cent of men and 36 per cent of women at risk of obesity-related illnesses.These worrying statistics mean that cases of type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, respiratory problems, infertility and heart diseases are also on the rise.Yet just 15 minutes of exercise a day has been shown to provide health benefits. Scientists looked at 416,175 men and women and found that those taking 15 minutes of leisure time physical activity was associated with a 14 per cent overall reduction of death, 10 per cent reduction in cancer mortality and a 20 per cent reduction of cardiovascular disease. Not to mention increasing life expectancy by three years.Study authors Dr Anil Nigam of the Montreal Heart Institute and Dr Martin Juneau of the University of Montreal wrote: &ldquo;Knowing that as little as 15 minutes a day of exercise on most weekdays can substantially reduce one&rsquo;s risk of dying could encourage many more individuals to incorporate a small amount of physical activity in their busy lives.&rdquo;Despite this, there still aren&rsquo;t enough people starting their fitness journey. And the reason for this may not be laziness or lack of ways to get fit, or even time. The most likely reason is a lack of self-confidence.Picture this, you&rsquo;ve finally done it. You got the membership, you even got new gym clothes ready to finally start exercising.You walk into your gym for the first time determined to work out, maybe you even have a routine prepared. But as soon as you walk into the room, you&rsquo;re immediately intimidated by sleek, lycra-covered bodies running along and barely breaking a sweat.You can&rsquo;t run as fast as they can, or lift as many weights or even keep up with the instructor in the classes, so you&rsquo;ll tentatively try everything out, trying not to be noticed as much as possible, then quietly make your exit.You know that it takes time to become good at something, and you might come back a few times, but ultimately, your lack of self-confidence in yourself will mean that you most likely will quit.Self-esteem plays a key role in explaining human behaviour. If we aren&rsquo;t good at something, or something is particularly hard for us, then a lot of the time we give up. Exercise is no different, whether it&rsquo;s our physical appearance or our fitness level. Our self-confidence is the driving force to whether or not we keep working out.Deciding to take the plunge is the easy part. Keeping up with your regime is the hard part. And getting past that has incredible effect, not just in improving physical health but also improving your confidence.A study carried out in 2010 looked at the correlation between exercise and self-worth.It looked at 104 women enrolled in a randomised controlled walking and yoga exercise trial. The study found that exercise also had a direct impact on many adverse consequences of menopause, as well as increasing self-esteem.There have been multiple studies that back up these findings, proving that fitness is not just about improving your mind but also your mental state.And there are many ways to keep your motivation up. Find a friend to exercise with or do different activities to add some variety. Monotony can lead to boredom and make it easier to quit. Exercise is no longer just running around a field or lifting weights. Take a long walk or maybe even try a dance class. There is something for everyone, and the rewards are always worth it.