The Capital Markets Authority has backed ongoing policy and regulatory reforms to enhance penetration of Islamic finance and position the country as a hub for Africa. The government has amended the Capital Markets Act to facilitate development of Shariah-compliant products after President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Finance Act 2017 into law a fortnight ago. The the law, the Income Tax Act has also been amended to provide for equivalent tax treatment of Shariah-compliant products as with conventional financial products. Others include exemption from payment of Stamp Duty on transfer of title relating to Sukuk (bond) arrangement to support Asset-Backed Securities transactions and amendment to the Public Finance Management Act to allow for government investment in Sukuk. &ldquo;The strategy to accelerate Islamic finance uptake is underpinned by the ambition to transform Kenya into an International Finance Centre as part of the implementation of the Capital Market Master Plan, which is a Vision 2030 flagship project,&rdquo; CMA chief executive Paul Muthaura said yesterday in a statement. The government, through the Islamic Finance Project Management Office, has since last year been looking at ways to standardise contracts and address consumer perceptions and concerns around Shariah-compliant products. The move is also geared towards gaining Organisation of Islamic Corporation membership, which is a requirement before a country can start accessing cheaper loans from the Islamic Development Bank. The government is seeking to bridge funding gaps in infrastructure projects by raising cash through sukuk. OIC is the second largest inter-governmental organisation after the United Nations and has a membership of 57 states, spread over four continents. The National Treasury has also formally appointed members of the Islamic Finance Consultative Committee, an industry stakeholder committee whose main objective shall be to provide support and feedback on the proposed Islamic Finance policies and regulatory changes to facilitate operations. &ldquo;The formal appointment of the IFCC is yet another positive development, as we firm-up the Islamic Finance advisory structures to prepare the ground for an Islamic Finance policy and regulatory framework in Kenya,&rdquo; Muthaura said. He said that the Kenya&rsquo;s Islamic finance market has witnessed substantial growth over the last few years. The country&rsquo;s decade-old Islamic finance sector includes three fully fledged Islamic banks, five Islamic windows, two credit unions, one Takaful company, a Retakaful window and a capital market unit trust fund. In May, London-headquartered global law firm Hogan Lovells said that Kenya which has an estimated 10 per cent Muslim population, is well positioned to become the hub for Islamic Finance in East and Central Africa. On June 21, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed Finance Bill 2017 and eight others into law.