If you&rsquo;re planning a trip to Spain&rsquo;s cosmopolitan city of Barcelona there are a few things you need to know.THE PEOPLENo problema&hellip; No Problema.. Are the words that welcome you to Spain&rsquo;s cosmopolitan city of Spain. First things first, If you&rsquo;re planning to visit the European country, I would advise you to learn the basics in Spanish to enhance communication with the locals.Buenas dias (Good morning) Buenas noches (Good evening) Ola (Hallo) Gracias (Thank you) Si (Yes) No (No) Por favor (Please).Despite most of the city residents speaking Spanish, they still speak a bit of English.Unlike other Europeans, they will go out of their way to try and help you or understand what you&rsquo;re saying.Barcelona is a city overlooking the Mediterranean Sea, with a coastline stretching 4.5km that offers a wide variety of beaches, the popular ones being Barcelonetta, Mar Bella, Nova Icaria and Bogatell.PLACES TO VISITThe best time to travel to Spain is during summer, which runs from the last week of March to the last week of October. - Barri Gotic, also known as the Gothic Centre of the old city of Barcelona. It stretches from La Rambla to Via Laietana. One can see the Roman temple of Augustus, with its maze of narrow streets and squares. Standing tall at the lower end of La Rambla District is the Colombus Monument, which is 197ft tall and was dedicated to Christopher Columbus. - Camp Nou. If you are a football fan, you must visit the home of Barcelona FC. It has a sitting capacity of 99,354 and is the largest stadium in Spain and Europe. The Camp Nou experience is best started in the morning to give you ample time to retrace the footsteps of football legends, visit the museum where trophies, kits and memorabilia are stored. Explore the stands, the dugout, the commentary box and even the tunnel onto the pitch. Feel the true Bar&ccedil;a passion and enjoy panoramic views of the whole stadium. It takes approximately 1 hour 30 minutes, and it&rsquo;s all worth it.- Casa Batllo. It is a centrepiece in the city of Barcelona and is one of architect and artist Antoni Gaudi&rsquo;s masterpieces. The local name for the building is Casa dels ossos (House of Bones). The roof is arched and has been likened to a dragon&rsquo;s back. - Sagrada Familia. This is the most visited monument in Spain. The church is still incomplete but the architectural designs are breath-taking. As of this year, just over 70 per cent of the basilica will be built.The project is expected to end in 2026, the year of the centenary of Gaud&iacute;&rsquo;s death.- Diagonal Mar district. The most distinctive district of Barcelona. It features a modern complex of highrise apartments, hotels, office blocks and malls. Shopping addicts will have a blast as the latest fashion retailers are readily available.TRANSPORTThe best way to travel in the Catalonian city of Barcelona is through the metro. If you&rsquo;re not good with directions, like me, you are lucky, as the metro is well mapped out, with the stages clearly labelled. The different lines are in different colours and you only need to know which line you are taking and the colour to get to your destination. Cycling is also popular in Barcelona. There is a bicycle sharing system called Bicing. The idea is users are required to acquire a yearly membership. It is managed by the city council.WHAT TO EATYou are not allowed to visit Spain without experiencing the famous tapas. They are a sort of little meals that Spaniards consider as appetizers or snacks that can be enjoyed cold or hot.Paella is another cuisine you must sample. As for the drinks, Sangria&rsquo;s are very popular and one can enjoy a glass while on the beach. WHAT THEY KNOW ABOUT KENYANSWhen I asked Jorge Manuel, a Spaniard, what he knows about Kenya, the first thing that popped to his mind was that we are known for our prowess in athletics.&ldquo;Everyone in Spain knows that Kenyans win all the marathons. In all marathons held in Madrid, you will always find a Kenyan winning or at least in the top three,&rdquo; he said.MY TRAVEL TIPSIf you&rsquo;re planning a trip to Spain, I would advise you to start early. This will give you ample time to get the requirements for a visa. At the same time, you will be able to save on airfare, as most airlines have deals for early ticket payment.