Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery yesterday denied links to the Mt Kenya Foundation and gave NASA leaders seven days to prove their claims that he is part of it.If they do not prove it, they should brace themselves for a bruising legal battle, he said.Nkaissery said he did not know the organisation existed until the media ran a story that the opposition linked him to it.NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi, who is also the head of Raila Odinga&rsquo;s campaign secretariat, on Wednesday said Nkaissery is among the select few who visit the organisation&rsquo;s offices, said to be located in Parklands, Nairobi.The operations of the organisation are shrouded in mystery. But the foundation is believed to be working for the Jubilee Party and, mainly, the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta.Nkaissery wants the NASA leadership to prove he has been visiting the organisation&rsquo;s offices said to be accessible only to Uhuru, DP William Ruto, business mogul and industrialist Chris Kirubi, former Chief of Defence Forces Julius Karangi, former Energy CS Davis Chirchir and a few other selected persons.&ldquo;They continue to accuse innocent people unfairly and I have given that notice and I am prepared. I don&rsquo;t need a government to help me. I will take legal action. I have the right and I want them to tell me who I have spoken to, when I went there, what time and the date. I think they need to be prepared for this battle,&rdquo; the CS warned. &ldquo;Such outrageous and unsubstantiated statements.&rdquo;Nkaissery is among the seven people NASA is planning to sue over sourcing of the company to print ballot papers for the August 8 General Election.Nkaissery faulted NASA for claiming that public and state officers are campaigning for Uhuru using public resources.The CS spoke yesterday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre during St John Ambulance&rsquo;s 89th annual inspection parade.Nkaissery said he is a state officer in the executive and, &ldquo;I must do or tell whatever the President tells me to do or tell wananchi. I will do so and it is by law. I will not get out of the law.&ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t understand the leadership of NASA because as a minister in charge of national security, I have the mandate to communicate to Kenyans &mdash; to tell them what the government has done in security and in development. I am paid to do that and I cannot be gagged, I cannot be intimidated.&ldquo;The difference between the government and opposition is that the government is working 24 hours and the opposition is making noise 24 hours; that is the problem and you must separate the two. I can&rsquo;t come to work by foot [and] if that is using resources, so be it,&rdquo; he said