I love history. It takes one back to a time when man was put together from an entirely different, stronger material, than the man of today. When I think of man of old, I see steel. Today&rsquo;s man, on the other hand brings to mind something soft and rubbery. Here are just three examples of the kind of steely man of old I&rsquo;m talking about: Speke, Columbus and Battuta. All three were explorers and adventurers, who set off on journeys, often perilous, and likely arduous, through unmapped lands and uncharted seas, to discover something new and different. And in doing so, they left a legacy. I&rsquo;ll refresh your memory: John Hanning Speke is the one who set out to find the source of the Nile in the 18th Century, and found it. Illness had rendered him partially blind at the time, and yet, remarkably, he still saw Lake Victoria. I mean here was an Englishman, who, perhaps the wildest animal he&rsquo;d encountered in England was a fox, going walk-about into the interior of a continent where not only did one find beasts that could tear a man into tiny pieces, but tropic diseases as well, which to the European was far worse than the beasts. This man of steel, though, survived the wild animals, disease and hostile locals in Africa to make a name for himself, and he&rsquo;d have probably gone on to achieve even greater feats if he hadn&rsquo;t shot himself by accident while out shooting birds in the English countryside. Christopher Columbus was a 15th Century man. He was an Italian explorer who decided to chart a new course in an attempt to find a different sea route to India from Europe. By doing something different from what every other good seafarer was doing at the time, Columbus bravely steered clear of &ldquo;best practices&rdquo;. He never did find that alternative route to India. Instead, he found a continent, the Americas. It is said in some quarters that Columbus initially mistook the New World for India, and that it was on this mistaken assumption that he named the inhabitants of the continent of America &lsquo;Indians&rsquo;.Ibn Battuta was a Moroccan explorer in the 14th Century. Regarded as the greatest traveller of the medieval period, which is saying a lot, Battuta visited many parts of Africa, Asia, and Europe over a period of 30 years. And then he went on to write an account of his exploits in a book known as &lsquo;Journey&rsquo;. Like Speke and Columbus who came after him, Battuta did what no man had done before. The man of old set forth into the unknown. He dreamt, explored, discovered and left a mark on the world. It was important for this man to leave a legacy, to do things that would live on long after he had left this world. Today&rsquo;s man, he lives only for the present, and is impatient for things to happen immediately. He is not keen to explore, and he will not take a risk on the unknown on the off-chance that he might discover something new; a new idea or a completely new way of doing things. Legacy for the man of today means little, for it takes too long to build one. Unlike the man of old, the man of today is unaware that legacy is that little bit of you that can live on forever. In a sense, it is immortality.