When looking to have a leisurely Sunday meal with friends and family, the Lucca Restaurant at the Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel puts on an amazing spread. This smart restaurant has indoor seating, a balcony area with glass walls overlooking Chiromo Road and an outdoor terrace. Lucca is an Italian restaurant but the all-you-can-eat Sunday brunch, served between 12.30pm &ndash; 5pm, features dishes from the hotel&rsquo;s different restaurants.The antipasto station of salads, cold meats and fresh bread rolls is a meal all on its own. The sushi rolls, in meat and vegetable options, are made by master chef Tyrone Ompoy. Reportedly, former President Barack Obama ordered sushi rolls when he stayed at the hotel during his 2015 visit to Kenya.For hot starters, I opted for the Malaysian laksa soup from Restaurant 88, a pan-Asian eatery. This spicy noodle soup delivers a nice kick to the taste buds. From the Tambourin Restaurant, which serves Middle Eastern, there is a shawarma station with a variety of dipping sauces. For a bit of Italian, there is a live pasta station and pizzas baked in the restaurant&rsquo;s clay oven.The Indian section includes fish, lentils and rice dishes. The Indian Chicken Tikka with yoghurt sauce is delicious, although the stewed lamb was a bit tough. The grilled lamb and the tilapia fillet from the nyama choma station are commendable.The brunch focuses more on lunch than breakfast, but it is possible to order an omelette. The extensive dessert selection has delights such as warm blueberry and banana crumble, chocolate profiteroles, while cheese and crackers, with a cup of coffee to round off the meal.As you eat, the ambience is enlivened by the Gogosimo band, playing an entertaining selection of African and Western music, which is sometimes too loud for conversation. For families with young children, there is a playroom on the upper floor featuring live games and face painting to keep youngsters entertained.The brunch costs Sh3,800 per person, Sh1,900 for children under 13 years and is free for children under six years. The price includes freshly squeezed juice, tea and coffee, but other beverages are priced separately. For an extra Sh1,200, you can enjoy a glass of free-flowing champagne.Location: Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel, NairobiContacts: +254 703 049 000Star rating: 4/5