Let's get something out of the way: King Kaka is certainly one of the biggest Kenyan acts who have played a significant role in shaping the local rap scene. This is a fact nobody can dispute.The rapper started as an underground MC with impressive poetic lyricism and a dutiful following. After years of releasing amazing hits like Niko kwa Jam Nakam, Mtu Hivi Hivi and Staki Kukuona, he catapulted to the mainstream scene, making tracks for a wider audience.His lyricism has always incorporated apt storytelling skills, clever wordplay, blunt braggadocio and insults directed to his competition, and has earned him a spot as one of the most successful rappers in Kenya.But the hip hop scene is about competition and rappers will always be pitted against one another, with critics and fans disagreeing on who is the best.Last week, King Kaka fired back to keep his relevance alive by releasing the track Yap Yap. So, judging from this track, did he claim the throne? Not really. It was nothing close to what other rap artists have recently released. It was not the right track to add fuel to the fire. Compared to what Octopizzo, Khaligraph Jones and Nyashinski have recently released, it was a bland statement with a line similar to one in Drake's Gyalchester.Being declared rap king goes beyond releasing diss tracks full of ruthless punchlines. It's about the creativity one puts into their work and the growth exhibited.A few years ago, King Kaka's flow and delivery used to be supreme and he showed no sign of slowing down. However, he got comfortable for so long without any significant transformation and, unfortunately, he still sounds the same as back in the day.Despite flooding the industry with too many tracks that hardly gain relevance, he doesn't seem to be having any influence in the rap scene anymore.His greatest quality right now would be that he is a stamp of approval, willing and able to give upcoming artists a platform to exhibit their musical artistry.It's only obvious that the competition has outgrown the rapper, who seems to have a long way to go before he can cement his place as the best to ever do it.