NASA leaders in Nairobi have hit out at President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto over recent attacks on their flag bearer Raila Odinga. The leaders; Governor Evans Kidero, ODM Woman representative candidate Esther Passaris and Senator hopeful Edwin Sifuna asked the Jubilee leaders to stop using the opposition leader as their campaign agenda.They said the Jubilee team should instead focus on addressing the failures of their administration."We launched our manifesto on Saturday grounded on social justice, elimination of illiteracy, ill health, poverty and bad and poor leadership. Why don&rsquo;t you tell us what your agenda for Kenyans will be?" Kidero asked.Passaris accused the government of attempting to awaken the ghost of 2007 post -election violence by trying to whip tribal emotions. "I want to say that those kinds of comments coming from the president addressed to opposition leader including the disrespect they showed him in Nyeri, are not to go down well in terms of ushering peaceful elections," Passaris said.Read:Uhuru, Ruto snub Raila at Madaraka Day ceremonySifuna asked the President to own up to his failures and stop using the NASA leader as a scapegoat to justify his failures."Respect is two-way. We are asking the president to lead by example. That he must show respect to the opposition leaders. We are not going to expect peaceful elections where you keep on insulting our leaders instead of addressing the failures of this government," he said.&ldquo;........you need to tell us where the laptops you promised our children are. Where the border security you promised is. When you see our young men and women in the army and police dying like chicken because they only use vehicles which cannot withstand even a bullet while you are using the Armored Personnel Carriers then you come and talk about Raila Odinga,&rdquo; he said.They addressed journalists after attending a service at Riruta PCEA church.Sifuna said that the President cannot pretend to own the idea of free secondary education.He said the idea was conceived by the coalition government but Uhuru's administration had failed to deliver it.&ldquo;You are not the first person to come up with the idea of free basic education. It was there even during the grand coalition government and so there is no new thing you are trying to tell Kenyans about this,&rdquo; he said.Also read: Snubbing Raila in Nyeri was unfortunate, sad