Governor Evans Kidero has announced that matatus will not be locked out of the city centre.He told matatu owners, touts and drivers at a city hotel at the weekend that the proposed Bus Rapid Transit System will not drive them out of business. &ldquo;We are in no way going to disenfranchise matatu owners or to make them lose business,&rdquo; Kidero said. He also pledged to look at the challenges facing the city&rsquo;s transport system and the previous decongestion reports with a view of implementing short and long term public transport solutions.Bus Rapid transitThe proposed Bus Rapid Transit system will have five interconnection lines named after the Big Five: Ndovu, Simba, Chui, Kifaru and Nyati.The BRT is a high-quality bus-driven transport system that delivers fast, comfortable and cost-effective services in citiess the size of Nairobi.Kidero said major roads entering the city like Mombasa Road, Thika Super Highway, Ngong Road, Jogoo Road and Waiyaki Way, might be converted to stretches with designated bus ways.&ldquo;The aim of BRT is to ease urban mobility and make commuting a less stressful experience for the more than 2.6 million people currently entering or leaving the city daily,&rdquo; the governor said. In June last year, Transport CS James Macharia said Nairobi lacks adequate space for a Bus Rapid Transit. He attributed the problem to poor planning, saying the city does not have a dedicated lane for buses. &ldquo;We thought it would be much easier and faster to build the rail system as we consider the logistics of BRT,&rdquo; Macharia said. He said the commuter rail will run from Syokimau, where the train stops, to the city, in order to avoid traffic congestion.Mass transit busesIn August last year, Kidero said new mass transit buses would operate in Nairobi&rsquo;s nine transport corridors. He said the county government was in talks with relevant stakeholders on how to start the programme.&ldquo;We shall start with Thika and Ngong roads, before we embark on Jogoo Road all the way from Mama Lucy Hospital, and Kangundo road,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are building nine transport systems to accommodate the buses. We are carrying out a pilot operation to see how effective the system will be.&rdquo;Other routes included Limuru to Nairobi, Langata road, Nairobi to Machakos, Kinoo overpass and Nairobi to Ruiru. Kidero said, &ldquo;All we want is to decongest traffic on the main roads. We cannot keep all the vehicles on the road just because everybody owns a car.&rdquo;