Newton&rsquo;s Third Law of Motion states that 'For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction'. This holds true for both physics and political science. Last October this columnist warned Jubilee and Cord on the foolhardiness of attempting to put political aspirants into straightjackets as it would be vigorously resisted after passing the anti-party hopping law. It was a strategic error that left no safety valve for those aggrieved in the party primaries. Needless to state nobody heeded the warning. It has now come to haunt both outfits in the name of the Independent candidate(s). The shambolic party primaries have given rise to an unprecedented 4,950 independent candidates out of the total 15,082 cleared by the IEBC. Working on the simple assumption that each has a support base of at least 2,000 core voters this translates to a record 9.9 million. Only the politically na&iuml;ve and myopic can ignore such a number of aspirants and potential voters. The party leaders are now walking a potential political tightrope on whether to embrace the independents or reject them. One doesn&rsquo;t have to be a rocket scientist to realise how they can affect voter turnout. There is also the very real possibility of scores of them finding their way to the Senate, National and county assemblies, thereby affecting party strengths.Political party honchos across the divide failed to heed the wisdom of ancient Chinese writer and strategist Sun Tzu, who authoritatively stated, &ldquo;Always allow for an escape route (even for the enemy). They must see that there is an alternative to death. Let them know an escape route is open and they will flee and disperse.&rdquo; Tzu goes on to say, &ldquo;You must also leave yourself a line to retreat so that you have less trouble retreating." Party strategists failed to leave some room for members to manoeuvre, escape or retreat. Jubilee and in particular Uhuru Kenyatta, has learnt a difficult lesson. He has had to come off the Jubilee high horse and retreat. The words of Kiraitu Murungi to the effect &ldquo;that the Jubilee Party is a house with one entrance and no exit have come back to haunt them. Jubilee has eaten humble pie and embraced Maendeleo Chap Chap, Narc Kenya, Kanu, and other political parties.Men fight at their fiercest when trapped and often, to the death. A group of 300 Spartan soldiers held off a 100,000-strong Persian Army at the narrow coastal pass of Thermopylae in 480BC. They valiantly fought to their deaths. The bulk of the independent candidates are trapped and the main political parties should expect a fierce fight-back. This is bound to spike voter turnout or lead to apathy, especially on the presidency. The candidate who can positively harness and redirect the energy of the independent candidates will reap advantage. NASA leader Raila Odinga may have to swallow his words on rejecting the independent. The consequences of such draconian action would reverberate negatively on his bid.The country is poised to witness the &ldquo;mother of all political battles&rdquo; as the Kenyatta and Odinga dynasties face of one last time. Uhuru is seeking a second and final term while Raila is making his last-ditch attempt for the presidency. It&rsquo;s a high stakes game with each man hell-bent to deny the other electoral victory. Just as in Shakespeare&rsquo;s Romeo and Juliet where the Montague and Capulet families faced off, there is no love lost between the two dynasties. Raila is determined to remove Uhuru from power and avenge the indignity visited on his father by Jomo Kenyatta who had him placed under house arrest. Uhuru is equally determined to vanquish the Odingas once and for all. The political scene is about to be radically altered with the retirement of an Odinga/Kenyatta.