BY the time I arrived in Ghana to advise the NPP campaign team on their then upcoming 2016 election, the country was already electric with song, dance and campaign paraphernalia. Mahama&rsquo;s supporters chanted &ldquo;No abaa bas3&rdquo;, a Ga term that translates as &ldquo;No going back&rdquo;.Nana&rsquo;s supporters beamed with hope with every mention of the &ldquo;one district, one factory, one village, one dam and one constituency, one million dollar&rdquo; that NPP promised. As the anxiety and excitement continued to build, so did the skepticism about the Ghanaian Electoral Commission&rsquo;s ability to hold a free and fair general election.Those in the opposition and some in the media felt that the NDC had a leash around the EC&rsquo;s neck. Furthermore, the judgment in the 2012 presidential petition that ruled in Mahama&rsquo;s favour left a very bitter taste in the mouth of NPP. While one would have thought that two previous election defeats with the same presidential candidate would have served to deflate the NPP supporters, the contrary was true. In fact, Nana&rsquo;s third stab at the presidency seemed to have energised them. Indeed, many NPP supporters could not imagine what another defeat would do for the old man and were ready to go all out to cover his back and deliver him victory. Many adopted one or more polling stations while others offered food from their restaurants and their buses to transport voters upcountry. NPP did extremely well in galvanising the involvement of their supporters. In addition to this engagement, NPP also conducted more basic, yet intricate, communications through door-to-door outreach and town hall meetings. While their media blitz was nowhere near as sophisticated as the NDC&rsquo;s, the mechanisms they used resonated with the electorate.Apart from the voter engagement, the NPP also struck the core of people&rsquo;s emotions by highlighting where Mahama&rsquo;s government had failed. They focussed on the four-year incessant power blackouts that affected the economy, the dwindling value of the Ghanaian cedi, which had been strong when NPP was in power, and, most importantly, the myriad corruption scandals that plagued the top brass of the NDC government. The Ghanaian election proved three things to me; one that those who properly use poll/research in elections benefit immensely, two that opinion polling works because the Infotrak Poll correctly predicted the outcome of the election and three, nothing is as powerful as an idea whose time has come. Angela Ambitho is the Infotrak CEO