Kenya Open defending champion Ismael Changawa began his title defence on a positive note, beating Japanese Hiroki Ishida 6-1,6-0.Changawa service game troubled the Japanese throughout from the start as he raced to an early 3-0 lead after breaking the Ishida serve.Ishida managed to regroup and clinched the fourth game of the set to reduce the margin to 3-1. Changawa stepped up a gear and punished Ishida mistakes to win the next three games to wrap up the set. Changawa showed the Japanese no mercy in the second set as he toyed with him without losing a point to advance to the second round.Ismael warmed up for the defence of his title by training and playing in Thailand. He said: &ldquo;I tried my best and Hiroki equally offered his best. He is a good player but I feel I beat him on experience. I went to Thailand last week where I played a number of matches with professionals and I feel I will excel. There are tough tournaments ahead for me and the Kenya Open gives me the avenue to train and gain more,&rdquo; he added. In other matches played, Ugandan Duncan Mugabe returned with a bang, beating Reuben Njuguna 6-1, 6-1. Mugabe was disqualified during last year&rsquo;s edition due to unsportman like conduct. Third seed Sheil Kotecha beat Tanzanian Frank Meanard 6-2,6-3 as Zambian Edgar Kazembe edged out Hillary Nyakabu of Zimbabwe 6-2, 6-1. David Oringa defeated Nkaku Mukeba of the Democratic Republic Of Congo 6-1, 6-1 while Kevin Cheruiyot registered identical sets over Moses Mwaura. Rwandese Ernest Habiyambere saw off Maurice Wamukowa 6-3, 6-2.In the girls&rsquo; category, Shufaa Changawa picked from where she left after winning the opener, edging out Sudan&rsquo;s Achu Madhieu 6-0, 6-0. Shufaa is seeking to defend her title for the third year in a row. Motivated by the same win margin against Immaculate Musumbi on Monday, Shufaa eased past the Sudanese in the second round without conceding.In a post-match interview, Shufaa could not hide her joy, saying: &ldquo;So far so good. I am happy with the win and I hope to carry the same till the final match. The tournament we had in Moldova a week prior to the championships gave me the opportunity to gain more confidence and experience. I faced tough players who made my preparedness super. My opponent was a bit tough but the experience I gained abroad helped me a lot. After the championships, I will shift to Kinshasa for the Congo Open,&rdquo; she added. In other matches played, Juliet Cherono failed to pick from yesterday&rsquo;s win over Alice Mbithe when she lost to Judith Nkatha in sets of 6-2, 6-1. Sneha Kotecha was too sharp for Terry Itha as she won 6-0, 6-0 while Celestine Avono of Congo recorded the same win margin against Paige Mbugua.Congolese Nancy Onya also produced the same result over Joy Lister.