The war on tax evasion among corporates through a multi-agency task force has yielded about Sh2 billion since March 2015, the Kenya Revenue Authority director-general John Njiraini said yesterday. Another 30 cases involving corruption and economic crimes are still being investigated through the task force, he added. The cases largely involve multinationals, and are at different stages of being resolved through the Alternative Dispute Resolution framework and recovery of assets. Members of the task force include the National Police Service, Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Assets Recovery Agency, Financial Reporting Centre, among others. He said the agency has issued tax demand letters and destroyed avenues for illicit fund flows in a bid to reduce tax evasion. &ldquo;This programme will help us with expertise to deal with illicit financial flows that include drug trafficking, terrorism, corruption and crime, and transfer pricing and the shifting of profits by multinational companies&rdquo; Njiraini said. The KRA has further recovered more than Sh5 billion from over 50 cases involving illicit financial flows. Njiraini spoke during the launch of the African Academy Programme for Tax and Financial Crime Investigation in Nairobi. The programme, in partnership with the Organisation for Co-operation and Development, will see at least 27 officers from KRA and other institutions that deal with tax and financial crime trained for two weeks until July 7. This is aimed at taming tax evasion cartels by detecting and forestalling such cases before they are committed.Officers from the National Intelligence Service, EACC, Criminal Investigations Department of the the police and the office of the DPP will also be trained. The taxman also outlined its internal strategy in dealing with taxation crimes which include the formation of an intelligence collection office to help form a robust framework to boost tax collection. This is a break from the past when KRA largely depended on volunteers to provide intelligence. The intelligence collection office started working in March. Njiraini said the authority is recruiting more personnel to beef up the operations of the office, in addition to investment in ICT tools to enhance the capacity to undertake conventional surveillance operations. &ldquo;Going forward, we have decided that from now henceforth our recruitment strategy will include looking for candidates with skills in crime investigation,&rdquo; he said.