Two opposition MPs have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of using state resources to entice voters ahead of the August 8 polls. They termed the compensation of IDPS in Kisii and Nyamira counties a political gimmick meant to hoodwink residents. ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba) and his Borabu counterpart Ben Momanyi said the millions of shillings were only paid to IDPs with the aim of winning their hearts. The lawmakers who addressed the press at Parliament Buildings further said the President’s move amounts to an illegality. "This is a mockery to the community. It is shameful," Momanyi said. Bosire said: "As a member of the Public Accounts Committee, I am doubtful about the source of the funds. I do not recall the PAC giving a nod for funds to be dished out by the head of state as he is doing. This is illegal and unconstitutional." Uhuru, in his two-day tour of Gusii region, paid IDPS from Kisii Sh358 million and Sh470 million to those from Nyamira. Bosire said it the right of the IDPs to get compensation from the government but questioned the timing and motive of the awards The legislator said the money was a drop in the ocean since the community bore the brunt of the 2007/8 post-election violence. "Commensurate compensation is the right of all Kenyans. But does not make sense for the President to release a paltry Sh830 million to the victims," the MP said. "What criteria was used to arrive at the figure - which averagely translates to about Sh50,000 per household - when the same government dished out Sh400,000 per IDP in Rift Valley and other parts of the country?" Earlier, ODM MPs accused the President Uhuru of bribing voters in the
guise of compensating IDPs. MPs
led by Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) demanded a comprehensive audit of
the compensation scheme and said it has been marred with
discrimination. "This scheme is shrouded in a lot of mystery and
we want to know the amount spent so far, who has been compensated and
how much they were given," Wandayi said. Read: Uhuru 'bribing' IDPs with compensation, ODM MPs claim