Residents of informal settlements in Nairobi have had harrowing experiences in the hands of police. Their dress code, grooming, walking style, daily routine and even destiny is shaped by dreaded encounters with the police.From deep in Dandora, Kamkunji, Kayole, Kawangware, Korogocho, Kibera, Mathare to Mukuru, the police run amok and operate above the law. They apply unwritten rules of policing that involve abuse and contempt against citizens.Unlike other areas where guns are supposed to make people safe, here they are used to instill fear and shutter the lives of their children. It&rsquo;s where being a youth has been criminalised. These are the narrations of victims and families of those whose sons and husbands have been felled by the bullet.Young girls below 25 years have been made widows and single mothers, and now residents fear that if the killings are not stopped and those culpable put to account, Kenya will lose an entire generation.The mother of one of the eight youths killed by police in Mukuru kwa Reuben slums last year speaks during #MachoziYaJana dialogues in the area, June 15, 2017. /IJMSUMMARY EXECUTIONSIt&rsquo;s June 6. Mary Wangui, 80, sits on a bench at St John's Catholic Church Korogocho, looking depressed, with veins visibly drawn all over her face. Her eyes redden, and she occasionally pulls the end of her lesso to wipe them.She is assisted to the podium by a group of women, and as she starts to narrate her story on how she lost her seven children, she breaks down and can&rsquo;t utter a word. Silence rents the air for a moment and, upon regaining some energy with the help of a translator, she says police apprehended two of her children, tied their hands at their back and shot them dead on the pretext that they were thugs.As if misfortunes had found home in her house, her other son was murdered by unknown people, an incident that caused stress in the family and claimed another son, who died out of shock.&ldquo;Earlier I had lost a son due to natural causes, and two others had died of TB. But my hopes were dashed when the three were killed. I have been left in this world all alone. I have tried looking for help on what happened to my children and my only heir, but none has been of help. I have since left it to God,&rdquo; she said.Kevin Gitai, 16, on behalf of his mother, who is too emotional to speak, takes up the podium to narrate a story of how his elder brother, who was the sole breadwinner, was executed by police.On August 5, 2015, he says, his brother Gideon Nyagah, a motorcycle rider, was at his work in 'Raunda', when two customers approached him and wanted to be dropped at Grogan in Kariobangi.A Mukuru kwa Reuben resident speaks during #MachoziYaJana dialogues in the area, June 15, 2017. /IJMUpon arriving at the destination, there was a confrontation between his brother and his customers on payment, as they declined to pay the agreed fare.&ldquo;Police on patrol responded to the confrontation, rounded them up, after a search on the two customers he was ferrying, a toy pistol was recovered. The police opened fire on them and despite pleas from my brother to save them, he too, was, executed,&rdquo; he said.Kevin said they have been to Kariobangi police with the mother on several occasions. They also went to Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA), but the institutions have kept tossing them around.&ldquo;Even though we lost a breadwinner, I dropped out of school because of fees, and we lost all hope we had in life, all we need is a closure on this case by seeing those officers who executed my brother held to account,&rdquo; he said, adding that they know the officers who killed them.Richard Muiruri was only 17 years and had accepted to go to school at Don Bosco Karen to continue with his studies. He wanted to change his life and that of his family, as well as pursue his talent of becoming a reggae musician. But during this year's Easter holiday, that candle of hope was blown out by a police bullet.&ldquo;That shooting brought darkness in our life. We had high hopes in him. We knew he was going to change our lives,&rdquo; Richard's aunt Consolata Waithera said.She narrates that on that fateful day, Richard, in the company of others, had left Korogocho to go for a reggae show in the CBD, but he failed to come back. The family later learned that he had been shot dead in Ruaraka and the body taken to City Mortuary on claims that he was caught with a knife, which he was using to rob.&ldquo;Even if he was a suspect, why did police kill our son, why didn't they arrest him and even jail him, if they had evidence,&rdquo; she questions.&ldquo;His mother (my sister) has never recovered and always locks up in the house crying with no hope of recourse. What pains us a lot is we know the cop who pulled the trigger on our son... look there...&rdquo; she points at a man she alleges shot their nephew walking in the company of others in the compound of the church, as she chokes with anger and tears roll down her cheeks.However, area police bosses denied being behind the killings, calling on those with evidence to come forward.A victim of police brutality shares his experience during #MachoziYaJana dialogues. /VICTOR IMBOTOPAINFUL MEMORIESAfter tens of testimonies from those who gathered the courage to come out and speak about the spate of killings in Korogocho on June 8, the community dialogues on extrajudicial killings was next held at Holistic Church in Kawangware.The campaign is being driven by Police Reform Working Group, together with a coalition of grassroots human rights defenders and religious leaders.Mary Mbone, despite having her son and a friend's bodies still lying at City Mortuary, gets the courage to share her painful memories.&ldquo;My son and a friend were at carwash last week. Police came and forced them to lie down and they were shot in broad daylight. For unknown reasons,&rdquo; she says.About two police killings are reported every week in Kawangware and seven in Korogocho. However, the Star could not independently verify the numbers.On Saturday June 10, the campaign was at AIC church Kibera. We met Julia Atwele, 80, whose three-year-old grandson was killed in 2015 in Lindi, and two years later her son also faced the same fate.&ldquo;Police were chasing some suspected criminals when they opened fire and killed my grandson, Afestos, who wasn&rsquo;t part of the gang. We rushed him to Kenyatta National Hospital but he didn't survive. A search for justice for the little one has been met by police resistance. They even claimed my son, Alex Okwemba (Afesto&rsquo;s father, aged 20),&rdquo; the domestic worker said.She said her son was hit on the leg by police but he managed to escape with gun wounds to the house, but two days later, police followed him to his house in Kibera and shot him dead as the wife watched.&ldquo;I have tried to follow up all this to get justice for my grandson and son, but I have been threatened and warned to drop the case or risk being executed, too. But before I die, too, I would love to see justice done,&rdquo; she said, blaming IPOA for being reluctant to take up the case and for frustrating her quest.Medina Abduba lost two cousins who were shot dead by police at a playground in November last year, and they have been on an unending search of another cousin, who has been missing for eight years. &ldquo;These have brought misery to our lives. To police that we supposed to seek help from, we are an unnecessary bother," she said. In Njiru Kayole at St Mathias ACK church on June 3, Isaac Munywa from Matopeni recalls how his son was gunned down near East Mall.&ldquo;At about 7pm, my son was coming from a job where he had taken up apprenticeship in tile fixing. He met a friend on his way and they decided to go and check on their girlfriends. When police tried to stop them, my son, Peter, tried to run, police shot him in the chest and he dropped,&rdquo; he explained.&ldquo;His friend was instructed to call us and as he tried to, they moved to where Peter was and they shot him in the head at point-blank range,&rdquo; he said, adding that later, the police took the photos of the young boy and shared it on social media, 'bragging' that they had shot dead a wanted criminal./VICTOR IMBOTOCOP-CROOK COLLUSIONFrancis Dematila and a group of his kinsmen have been in search of their kin since May 27 who disappeared in the hands of police officers.On the fateful day, he said their kin Saitoti Lalatap, in company of a friend at Jamrock Club, had a scuffle. The owner of the premise called in the police.&ldquo;Patrons heard three gunshots a few minutes after the police arrived. Then we saw our brother being bundled into a waiting landrover. That is the last time his whereabouts can be recorded,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;But since then, we have searched all the mortuaries, the police stations, in courts and remands with no trace. Police have given contradicting statements. At times they said he jumped off the car while in handcuffs, at others they have denied knowledge of the same.&rdquo;Dematila added that when they checked at the club two days after the incident, they saw a pool of blood on the floor and they suspect it&rsquo;s their brother&rsquo;s.&ldquo;But even if he is dead, why don't they give us his body so we can come to terms with his brutal murder and put the questions from people home to rest?&rdquo; he said.John Nyakundi, a youth leader in Dandora, said police keep harassing and beating up innocent youths, who are coming from job or heading to work."The information we have is that there is an unholy alliance between the police and gangsters. Where the gangsters are, police don&rsquo;t patrol in those territories but opt for those innocent ones just walking home, where they round them up, beat them and even accuse them falsely and make them bribe to be released," he said.This view resonates across all informal settlements, where residents believe police are in cahoots with criminals, who they supply with guns and bullets, and only eliminate them as a matter of cover-up to justify they are doing something, or when the deal goes sour.ROGUE COPS THE &lsquo;EXCEPTION&rsquo;George Maina from the police's Internal Affairs Unit, who has been attending the community dialogues, said police who perpetrate brutality and even execute citizens are few."Majority of our officers are doing their work in line with the law. The rogue cops are few, some of whom are even popular with citizens. As long as we get complaints from citizens, we take action. To some we recommend disciplinary action, others we forward their cases to the DPP or IPOA for prosecution," he said, calling on the victims of police excesses to gather the courage and always report incidents either directly to them or IPOA or even public benefit organisations."When we speak out, we help in raising the pertinent issues facing our police, then we are making a contribution towards police reforms," he said. Maina called on those youth who are willing to lay down their weapons to do so, assuring them of amnesty.The Police Reforms Working Group behind the dialogues consists of 10 organisations, including the International Justice Mission, International Centre for Transitional Justice, International Commission of Jurists in Kenya, Kenya Human Rights Commission, Kenya National Human Rights Commission and Amnesty International.On Thursday last week, the team was in Mukuru kwa Reuben and yesterday, they were in Kamkunji, before winding up the dialogues in Mathare today, where so far over 800 young boys have been documented as executed by police in the last three years.The MachoziYaJana campaign is a movement to end extrajudicial killings in Kenya that will culminate in a report compilation from community dialogues, which will be handed to the President to emphasise the need for a commission of inquiry into police killings.&ldquo;Other findings will be forwarded to the IPOA and the Internal Affairs Unit of the police, but if the complaints will be similar and from many victims, we will mount class-suits,&rdquo; Wamaitha Kimani, the International Justice Mission director of system reforms, said.