Things are imploding in Wiper. The outbursts between Johnson Muthama and Kalonzo Musyoka are tremors of an impending explosion. They conceal a fundamental structural defect at the foundation of the NASA establishment that could give way to the pressures of a hotly contested presidential election.Opposition chief Raila Odinga might have managed to delay the inevitable collapse of his newly minted political edifice by issuing chocolate-coated ultimatums to Senator Muthama, but it remains a challenge in the long run. The question is, will Wiper counter these opposing forces within itself?The symptoms of Wiper&rsquo;s disintegration, which will unavoidably affect NASA, might have exhibited themselves like a cruel joke with the Machakos Senator&rsquo;s threat that he would unleash toxic secrets about Kalonzo that would wipe out Wiper and, in turn, render Kalonzo politically homeless and toothless.&ldquo;I have something there,&rdquo; Muthama warned. &ldquo;I will soon reveal shocking things about Kalonzo. I have left Wiper. I cannot campaign for it anymore. But I will go around the country and seek votes for Raila.&rdquo;The latter part of Muthama&rsquo;s threat left many observers bewildered. Under the Constitution, the presidency comprises the President and the Deputy President. They vie and assume office as a package &mdash; one indivisible institution. In other words and in reality, Muthama cannot support Raila without supporting his running mate, Kalonzo. Anything that undermines Kalonzo undermines Raila. And since Raila is the NASA candidate, whatever undermines him has a debilitating effect on the alliance. Muthama must be aware of these realities. So, why did he issue the unnerving threat to Kalonzo? What are the implications of his threat to the NASA political experiment?To start with, NASA isn&rsquo;t a political party in law. Raila, the NASA flagbearer is actually an ODM presidential candidate.The wily Muthama must be aware of these facts. After all, it&rsquo;s widely acknowledged that he has been the financial backbone of Wiper and Kalonzo. Many believe that it was Muthama who funded Kalonzo&rsquo;s presidential bid in 2007. He has also been providing support to many Wiper politicians vying for various positions.Kalonzo&rsquo;s political star would have dwindled and possibly died without Muthama&rsquo;s financial muscle. Many other Wiper members, including myself then, could not match up to the kind of financial support Muthama offered. In a nutshell and in political language, Muthama owned Kalonzo. Having been close to the goings on in Wiper then, I know for a fact that in 2013, Kalonzo signed the political marriage certificate with Raila under duress. He later blamed Muthama for forcing him into a marriage without an airtight prenuptial agreement.The Cord MoU provided that Raila would cede ground and support him in 2017. However, Raila started looking for a new political home as soon as he had lost in 2013. He started with the Okoa Kenya initiative. The idea was to initiate a popular constitutional change, make Kenya a parliamentary system and become the Prime Minister. He would then run for President in this election. When he failed to collect one million signatures, he had to reinvent the wheel. Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s NASA idea fell into Raila&rsquo;s lap like manna from heaven. He saw an opportunity not only to renege on the Cord MoU, but to also craft a &ldquo;formidable coalition&rdquo; that could dislodge Jubilee from power, while caging Kalonzo. With Muthama on his side, Raila knew Kalonzo couldn&rsquo;t leave &ndash; unless he was leaving for Jubilee.There were such rumours three months ago and the questions that were asked on TV shows were, &ldquo;Why would Kalonzo leave Raila? After all, Uhuru will not replace Ruto with him&hellip;&rdquo; Kalonzo consistently trended for all the wrong reasons for months. Cartoonists had a field day caricaturing him as a chameleon, watermelon man and other unedifying creatures. The idea has been to destroy his reputation, name and political stock until he cannot stand on his own. That way, he couldn&rsquo;t leave NASA, which is precisely the position he now finds himself in.Meanwhile, every discerning analyst knows Raila prefers Mudavadi as his successor in whatever political outfit he constructs now or in the foreseeable future. It explains why Mudavadi has the most powerful portfolios in NASA, even if they aren&rsquo;t enshrined in the Constitution. While Kalonzo is a Deputy President without portfolio, Mudavadi is theoretically the &ldquo;coordinator of the execution of all government functions&rdquo;, including those of ministries. He is also responsible for internal security and other key responsibilities. In line with Raila&rsquo;s succession plan within NASA, Mudavadi has also been appointed the team leader of his presidential campaign. Kalonzo has no visible role in the campaigns. In other words, Mudavadi has literally and symbolically replaced Kalonzo as Raila&rsquo;s deputy.Muthama&rsquo;s outbursts must be seen within the context of the well-crafted plan to render Kalonzo harmless. Without Muthama&rsquo;s money and a hopelessly diluted power arrangement in NASA, Kalonzo is now completely and irreversibly powerless. Munuve is the Mwingi North MP