Presidential candidates are yet to be assigned bodyguards days after the electoral agency cleared them.The Constitution says a general election stands cancelled if a presidential candidate or running mate dies before the election.Yesterday, some of the eight presidential candidates accused police IG Joseph Boinnet of dragging his feet in enhancing their security, but government spokesperson, Eric Kiraithe, said none of them has requested to have his security enhanced.Kiraithe blames the candidates for not presenting themselves so that a security assessment is conducted to determine the number of officers each of the eight candidates needs.&ldquo;Let them get in touch with the IG at Jogoo House. It is not a one-size fits all. They need to be told the government&rsquo;s obligation and their obligation to ensure the officers remain professional,&rdquo; said Kiraithe. But the candidates said Boinnet is putting their lives in harm&rsquo;s way, despite the danger the threats to their security pose to the electoral calendar. Ekuru Aukot of Thirdway Alliance Kenya and Alliance For Real Change candidate Abduba Dida said they have been forced to make personal security arrangements.None of the presidential candidates, except President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, have official government security. Raila has state security because of his position as former Prime Minister.Uhuru and DP William Ruto have at least 200 and 45 security guards, respectively, protecting them and their immediate families.Last week, NASA presidential running mate Kalonzo Musyoka urged the government to beef up Raila&rsquo;s security. Aukot blames both Boinnet and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for the lack of action.&ldquo;The moment I became a candidate I should not have left the KICC without security. It is a constitutional right and I should not request for it,&rdquo; Aukot said on the phone.Dida said he has made numerous phone calls to the National Police Service to have his security instituted but each time he is told police are waiting for official communication from the IEBC on the final list of candidates.&ldquo;Immediately I was cleared, I told them to be careful with the law. They think it is a favour and maybe they want to be bribed,&rdquo; Dida said.Last month, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said all presidential candidates would enjoy state security once cleared by the IEBC. &ldquo;Once IEBC declares presidential candidates, we shall give all of them adequate security,&rdquo; the PS said on May 11.