In ordinary circumstances, I favour bankruptcy as the preferred way to let companies bear the consequences of their decisions. However, since it points to economic sabotage, the crisis facing MSC does not constitute my definition of &ldquo;ordinary circumstances&rdquo;. The evidence on the ground suggests that there was a systemic breakdown, not just in accountability, but also in ethical behaviour. Many publicly available documents show that MSC executives who failed the company did not operate properly. Signs of collective embezzlement, where these executives and their cronies literally outdid each other in looting the company over the last 15 years or so, are everywhere to be seen, especially in the questionable amassing of vast amounts of wealth whose sources they cannot justify.Hence, though government is justified to intervene, it must table a sessional paper in Parliament, making full disclosure.At the very minimum, the sessional paper should justify the taxpayer bailout; spell out the nature, structure, and extent of reforms to be undertaken to ensure revival and sound management of the company; how the bailout will be protected against possible crafty deals where the crisis is used as a conduit to steal public funds. When the storied American motor industry, for example, appeared on the verge of a historic collapse, the Bush/Obama administrations involved Congress in the bailout. The US government spent nearly $80 billion to bail out Chrysler and General Motors. And within the set timelines, the US government reported it had recouped that investment.The real story of the government's bailout of MSC must be much more than just the billions of shillings involved. More importantly, it must not be a story of governmental hubris, skirting, or ignoring, the rule of law to pursue a plan that is formulated on undisclosed considerations rather than established contract law and sound economic procedures, involving full disclosure and public participation via Parliament.Since the financial mess at MSC is in material part the product of intentional fraud, the failure to prosecute those responsible is an unacceptable failure of Kenya&rsquo;s criminal justice system in bringing to justice the progenitors of the mammoth fraud. A more aggressive mindset by the government is required to put a stop to the wanton looting by executives of public and/or publicly listed companies under their charge. Under no circumstances should government be seen to be letting people create crony capitalism and steal with impunity. Government policies must not create an exceptional criminogenic environment.