Olympic High School girls&rsquo; football team target a regional double as the Nairobi Region Secondary Schools Sports Association Term Two &lsquo;B&rsquo; games get underway across various venues in the city.They kick start their push to bag a second regional accolade within 30 days today when the come face-to-face with Mt. Larvena in a Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; fixture at Upper Hill High Schhool.In the second match, winners of Lang&rsquo;ata sub-region play Our Lady of Mercy-Shauri Moyo at Highway Secondary. Olympic&rsquo;s old foes Maina Wanjigi face Hidden Talent in their Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; opener at Upper Hill as Bright Star Academy and Raila Educational Centre clash in the other group tie at Sunshine. Pool C&rsquo;s Embakasi Girls confront finalists from Lang&rsquo;ata at Sunshine, while Dandora and Starehe runners up cross town to lock horns at Nairobi School.Neighbours Bururburu Girls and Peter Kibukosya High travel to Moi Forces Academy as State House Girls will have to brave Kariobangi in another Pool &lsquo;D&rsquo; at Highway. Holders of Starehe sub-region meet Kenya High in the last group at Nairobi School, while Dagoretti Mixed come in opposition with Jogoo Road at Sunshine.The former regional boys holders Upper Hill begin their campaign to return to the national stage against Baba Dogo in their Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; opener at Moi Forces Academy today. Upper Hill, a Nairobi sporting giant, seek to make amends after failing to go past group stages in the under-16 in the just concluded Term Two &lsquo;A&rsquo; showpiece as they face Baba Dogo. Moi Forces Academy face the winners of Lang&rsquo;ata sub-region at Nairobi School.Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; games pit Eastleigh High against Hidden Talent, who battle it out at Upper Hill, while Our Lady of Fatima come-face-to-face with Olympic at the same venue. Brown Hill play Langata&rsquo;s runners up at Highway as Ruai Boys invite Starehe subregion finalist at Moi Forces in Group &lsquo;C&rsquo; duels.Highway meet St. Justino at Moi Forces as Dandora cross the city to encounter Kangemi at Nairobi School in Pool &lsquo;D&rsquo; fixtures. Highway host Starehe&rsquo;s winners who square it out with Nairobi School, whereas the Dagoretti and Ofafa Jericho tie promises to be an entertaining opener at Sunshine in the last grouping.This is part of the Airtel Rising Stars championships starting today in various regions across the country. The last zone will conclude their tournament on June 30 ahead of the national bonanza scheduled for July 3 to 8 in Nyeri.Airtel Kenya&rsquo;s marketing director, Pallab Majumder, invited other industry players who can offer even better chances of playing in national and international tournaments to come and scout for players.David Ngugi, the secretary general of KSSSA lauded the contribution ARS has made over time to ensure that youth in the country are given a platform to display their talent and skills&ldquo;ARS has offered young boys and girls a platform to showcase their talent and stand chances to be scouted by local and international football clubs and we are grateful. I truly believe that by placing emphasis on the youth, Kenya will be able to make significant achievements in the near future,&rdquo; said Ngugi.