Football Kenya Federation (FKF) chairman Nick Mwendwa has challenged local coaches to groom talent that will produce high goal scores results.The FKF boss regretted that many top flight matches resulted into low scores and this doesn&rsquo;t reflect the standards of the game in the country.&ldquo;If we don&rsquo;t score more goals in the league, it ends up affecting the national team. I would like to see you impart the valuable skills that will enable our players to score more,&rdquo; he said.Mwenda was speaking during the closing ceremony of Sportpesa/Arsenal coaching camp at Kenya School of Monetary Studies.The third SportPesa Arsenal Training Camp closed in Nairobi with Kenyan trainee coaches keen to implement the eye-opening methods of playing quality football.FKF National Super League side, Nakumatt coach Mathew &lsquo;Ottamax&rsquo; Owino lauded the latest camp for including the goal-keeping training lessons.Ottamax, a former Harambee Stars goalkeeper, said the week-long training, which featured both theory and practical, was very insightful and helpful to the coaches who attended the camp. &ldquo;I had fun and I learnt new things. I found it enjoyable because the main focus is on youth football and you know this is the nerve of soccer for any country in the world,&rdquo; Ottamax said.Arsenal coaches Simon Mc Manus, James Colinese and goalkeeping coach Imran Hamid were in-charge of the camp organised in conjunction with SportPesa.The last two training camps by Arsenal were held in Nairobi in May and December last year. The latest training camp kicked off on Monday and for the first time incorporated 15 goalkeeping coaches. This raised the number of total trainees from 50 last year to 65.Among the coaches who attended included Robert Matano, Ken Odhiambo, Francis Onyiso, John Baraza, Nevil Pudo, Nicholas Muyoti, Abdallah Juma, Charles Omondi Korea, Ken Kenyatta, Ben Nyangweso and Florence Odhiambo among others. Mwenda said similar coaching experiences were vital to the development of the game.&ldquo;We have to do something about the technical aspect of the game and its through empowerment of coaches that we will go places. When you want to succeed in anything, you must start from scratch and make it big. It&rsquo;s through such initiatives that the game will grow in leaps and bounds,&rdquo; Mwendwa said.SportPesa Global Chief Marketing Officer, Joyce Kibe, said the company will continue to work with Arsenal and its other English Premier League partners to develop football in the country. This, she said, is part of SportPesa&rsquo;s initiatives aimed at ensuring Kenya gets to qualify for the 2022 World Cup.