The 2010 Constitution is an important guiding document that took decades to put together and also came with provisions we never had before. It was the culmination of painstaking efforts that sought to give Kenya a document that accurately captured the nation&rsquo;s needs. Indeed, most of the provisions found therein, presented the wishes of the people, who desired to be in the same ranks as the most progressive democracies in the world.Now, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday during their campaign trail in Nyeri county felt the actual mood among the residents, which presents the reality on the ground.In his stopover in Karatina town, the President heard, first hand, the wishes of the people in having leaders bearing different political subscriptions. Locals pleaded with him to allow them elect leaders based on their individual capacity rather than absolute party alignments. The President, himself a seasoned politician, accurately read the mood and asked for the election of leaders that he can work with. The people of Nyeri have, for years, made very bold decisions, most of which have surprised the entire country. In the last general election, the governor came from GNU, the senator from Narc and the Mathira MP from Narc. It is, therefore, wise to award them the chance to make their own independent choices as we all trust that those decisions will reflect the need to have strong leadership. The provision of independent candidates was one of the key developments in our democracy and governance that this Constitution gave us. It was time the country moved from certain party alignments as a measure of widening the political space. Anyone outside the party structures now has a chance to seek the mandate from the people.It is, therefore, necessary to remind party subscribers that creating room for the independent candidate was one event that has catapulted Kenya to the league of respected and advanced nations that highly value political freedom. Our country has to extract optimal value from this provision as a way of reaping exclusive benefits that can keep it on the path to first world political relevance.Most of the components of this Constitution have not come into full light in the seven years we have been under the new dispensation. This is, precisely, the reason why most candidates attached themselves to parties as a way of selling themselves to the electorate or for them to be accepted. Gladly, the results of the nominations have awarded our countrymen and women the chance to view the potential held by those who are vying as independents. Indeed, the high number of these candidates indicates the immense growth of the Kenyan political platform. Deductively, Kenyans should then make use of this provision and view it as an opportunity of increasing their options. Let voters invest time in scrutinising the potential and performance portfolio of each candidate, and elect them based on detailed and substantial findings. The work that was started by the drafters of the Constitution should be completed by ensuring only the best out of the big swathe of candidates is elected. We still need the party system, yes, but let us take the best of the best from what is on the table. If good leaders are elected, working together within and without party systems will be possible. A leadership conglomeration composed of dedicated leaders will have the country reaping the sweet benefits of having competent and able leaders.Even from the pool of independent candidates, voters should still scrutinise abilities and pick the most appropriate individuals. The current system is a tad complicated. We now have devolved systems of governance. Woman representatives are here to entrench affirmative action. The Senate is present to oversight the county governments. This reality requires of us that we empower excellent personalities in a bid to be accurate on what we want to achieve as a country. As we campaign, especially for the woman representative seat, we are inviting the electorate to give us votes based on what we can do.From my end, I have served for one-term, which the people can use to gauge my abilities and performance in the National Assembly. That is why I have invited everyone in Nyeri to evaluate me based on my track record based on what we have delivered. It is debates on such issues and reflective conversations that will see us give the mandate to the right people. Let us not be swallowed by the campaign excitement to make rushed decisions that may leave us regretting for years to come. We need to grant upon ourselves sensitive leaders for the sake of achieving whatever we desire as a country. Let us avoid profiling independent candidates because this will amount to nothing else other than taking us back to the years when the leadership space was limited to a certain clique, ultimately denying citizens the chance to get good governance. The fight for a great country kicked off under the new dispensation, and we must be willing to give our time and effort to get to the top. It is a combined effort, and the voter must claim his/her rightful role. Let us also take the time to review manifestos. Let us use sobriety in place of emotions to scrutinise and award competence. Let us elect MPs, and in particular women, who can legislate. The same applies for all the other elective seats. It is our duty, and we must not fail to set the pace for future generations. The writer is Nyeri Woman rep, defending her seat as an independent