Laikipia police have been given a shoot-on-sight order against gunmen who have invaded private conservancies and land.County commissioner Onesmus Musyoki on Thursday ordered police to shoot anyone found with illegal guns.He spoke during Madaraka Day celebrations in Nanyuki Stadium.The area has been declared &ldquo;dangerous and disturbed&rdquo;. &ldquo;The guns are only supposed to be with police ... We will not allow insecurity to prevail anymore. We have enough security men and women to deal with that,&rdquo; Musyoki said. He said the numerous cases of insecurity that have rocked the region in the recent past were carried out by people with illegal guns.&ldquo;We will not allow this to continue, where people are losing lives. It is not acceptable and we have to deal with this menace once and for all. The government must protect the lives of its people at all cost,&rdquo; Musyoki said.He said more officers, including KDF and Anti-Stock Theft Unit, have been deployed in Matwiku, Kamwenje, Rubere and Maua. ranchers attackedResidents in these areas have in the recent past been attacked by bandits suspected to be from Baringo.Musyoki said an additional 70 Kenya Police Reservists would be deployed in the area. &ldquo;The government is recruiting these reservists to work hand-in-hand with police officers. This will greatly improve the security situation in these areas as we do not want to witness more deaths or livestock theft,&rdquo; he said.In April, gunmen wounded Italian-born conservationist Kuki Gallmann at her conservacy in Laikipia. The 73-year-old author of the memoir I Dreamed of Africa was shot in the stomach after the vehicle she was driving in was ambushed by a group of gunmen.Gallmann was saved when rangers from the Kenya Wildlife Service intervened and fought off the attackers.In March, Laikipia rancher Tristan Voorspuy was shot dead by invaders in his a private ranch. Voorspuy was the majority shareholder and founder of Sosian conservancy. In late March, KDF soldiers were deployed in Laikipia Nature Conservancy after Pokot bandits raided Mukutan Retreat, burnt property and wounded many people. The troops were deployed after the invasion of luxury lodges, in what residents feared would escalate into full-blown conflict.