Upon accepting his nomination as the NASA flagbearer, Raila Odinga compared himself to &ldquo;Joshua,&rdquo; the biblical leader who led the Jews to the Promised Land.In 2009, Raila, a reportedly Anglican faithful, was dramatically baptised in a swimming pool by Prophet Owuor of the Ministry of Repentance and Holiness, at a public gathering in Nakuru. The gospel song, &ldquo;Mambo Yabadilika&rdquo; (things are changing), by Hellena Ken is ubiquitous at all NASA rallies. This demonstrates that in a country where religion is omnipresent in the public sphere, gospel music serves as an important vehicle for political mobilisation. Recently, religious leaders reportedly representing the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, the National Muslim Leaders&rsquo; Forum and the Jamia Mosque visited State House and pledged their support for Uhuru&rsquo;s Kenyatta&rsquo; reelection bid.In the ongoing Muslim holy month of Ramadhan, both Uhuru and Raila have sent goodwill messages to the Muslim community, and have sought to endear themselves to the respective Christian communities. In their quest to win votes from the religious constituencies, all aspirants have sought to present themselves as people of faith.Clearly, Kenya&rsquo;s political space is strongly infused and permeated with religious symbols. Islam, Christianity and even African traditional religions have all, in various ways and extent, &ldquo;gone public&rdquo; and entered into politics. The line between religion and politics is thin. This public presence of religion has had enormous impact on the country&rsquo;s political landscape.Consequently, political actors have deployed religious vocabulary as a way of mobilising the available religious capital to their political advantage. While religious symbols do certainly occupy an important place in Kenya&rsquo;s body politic, they should not obscure other dynamics that shape political relationships.On a recent visit to Western during the primaries, I noted how villagers sought and expected cash handouts from aspirants. A young boda boda driver, who gave me a ride, told how he provides his services throughout the day as during the night, he is busy &ldquo;eating campaign money.&rdquo;Old men and women were seated along village paths, waiting for an aspirant to come along and offer them &ldquo;something small.&rdquo; I witnessed one campaign rally in which an aspirant presented what seemed to be a well-thought-out blueprint for the development of his ward, if elected. At the conclusion of the presentation, one person in the audience shouted, &ldquo;That is enough speech-making, can you now talk to us?&rdquo;Thus, our political space is infused with both religious and non-religious symbols. During this campaign cycle, such symbols have operated cheek by jowl with what political scientist Jean Francis Bayart referred as the &lsquo;politics of the belly.&rsquo; They interact and influence each other in myriad ways.In this mode, politicians distribute goods for the bellies of their clients in return for political loyalty, obviating the need for recourse to democratic means. It is within this framework that the appreciation expressed to the President by Muslim leaders for &ldquo;appointing the highest number of Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries from the [Muslim] community&rdquo; may be understood.With some notable exceptions, it is from this perspective that religious leaders exercise their personal and symbolic capital, vis a vis aspirants.Constantin and Haynes have documented a common pattern of religious accommodation in post-colonial East African states. During this election year, patronage politics has been especially common because of biting recession and hunger across the country.It is quite difficult to build a democratic culture in a context of extreme deprivation such as we are witnessing in Kenya today. Additionally, it is important to locate religion and politics in Africa within the broader context of culture. In Africa, ethnicity has been sustained and even strengthened through the discreet political distribution of goods and wealth. Thus Bayart&rsquo;s &lsquo;politics-of-the-belly&rsquo; casts a long shadow on the meaning of culture in African states. It demonstrates that religion has followed patterns established by the politics of ethnicity.National religious organisations have collaborated variously with ruling governments, irrespective of their political philosophies and ideologies. The politics emerging from this campaign process confirm the exercise of various forms of symbolic and symbiotic appropriations within Kenyan politics. Religious services and rhetoric can be an integral part of the political system, serving neopatrimonial structures.The writer is a senior lecturer, Department of Religious Studies, St Paul&rsquo;s University[email&#160;protected]