NASA-affiliated parties in Kilifi have accused Governor Amason Kingi of sidelining them during the coalition's rally on Thursday.Flag bearer Raila Odinga and other ODM leaders toured the county and other parts of the Coast to popularise the coalition ahead of the August 8 election.Other politicians, led by NASA principals Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma Senator, Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) went to Lamu.The other principals are Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka and Bungoma Governor Isaac Rutto who is Chama Cha Mashinani leader.Candidates drawn from the parties accused Kingi of turning NASA meetings in Mariakani and Kaloleni into ODM rallies.The politicians, led by Mariakani MCA Said Mwachenda, gave Kingi 24 hours to address the matter before they make a declaration.The held a press conference at Mazeras hotel.In Mariakani, Kingi said the county is an ODM zone and urged residents to take up the six-piece voting pattern. Raila and ODM deputy leader Hassan Joho (Mombasa Governor) have been pushing for this.More on this: Joho, Orengo and Oduol endorse Rasanga, promote ODM's six-piece votingAlso read: Bondo elders reject Raila&rsquo;s call for six-piece voting systemCandidates from the other affiliate parties were not recognised during the function.&ldquo;I was called by the Wiper head office and advised to attend the rally because it was a NASA rally. But those who were publicising the Mariakani rally said it was for ODM," Mwachenda said."The head office told me to get a vehicle and rectify my public address saying it was a NASA rally. I did it but we were even not allowed on the podium. We feel aggrieved as NASA affiliate parties and we demand to be recognised in Kilifi county or we will vote against Kingi because we also have followers.. We do not depend on the party wave to win elections."Mwachenda was elected on an ODM ticket in 2013 but jumped ship to Wiper.In Kaloleni, supporters of a Ford Kenya MCA candidate were reportedly asked to fold up banners for their candidates as only those for ODM candidates were allowed.Kaloleni Ford Kenya parliamentary candidate Edward Saro said Kingi is poisoning NASA unity in the county.&ldquo;In Mariakani they did not recognise us, even by just mentioning our names. In Kaloleni, ODM youths forced our supporters to fold banners for Yasin Noordin who is the Ford Kenya candidate for Kaloleni," said Saro."They recognised even MCA candidates from ODM but failed to recognise MP and senator candidates from affiliate parties. They should tell us in advance if it they are holding NASA or ODM rallies. They should stop using NASA, to get many people to attend, only to sell ODM party. We incurred expenses for the rallies...it hurts when you are not recognised."Wiper woman representative candidate Priscillar Munga called on Kingi and Raila to end calls for six-piece voting and give voters the chance to choose their leaders."Let Kingi [reject Joho's misguidance]. He and an ANC candidate are the only governor aspirants in the other parties. He should take this as an advantage and not mistreat us," said Munga."We have the numbers and can sway support to the other candidates in NASA, or even Kadu Asili, because they currently do not have an inclination to a presidential candidate."NASA parties in Kilifi have not been on good terms, signalling doom for efforts to send Jubilee home.Kingi did not answer calls and messages for comment on the matter.