THE 2010 Constitution provision for independent candidates was informed by the fact that there are members who might have been in political parties but decided not to subscribe to any party due to frustration. Some of us exploited the provision when we felt oppressed in our former parties.I went independent because I didn't believe in the policies and ideologies of existing parties and it meant my people would elect me as a person. I won the election by a landslide in 2013 and I'm still vying as an independent.There are two pillars as an independent. First, assess whether the people believe in and are behind you. Do a self-assessment because elections are about numbers.If you have the people you don&rsquo;t need any endorsement by someone else to win. Second, about resources to run your campaigns: You have to foot all your campaign bills. You must have financial muscle. You have to fundraise from your friends and if they are not ready, don't run as an independent &ndash; unless miracles happen. Many independent candidates we are hearing about participated in nominations and after losing went independent as a revolt against their former parties. Some are accusing top leaders of manipulating the primaries.I was in Kanu in 2002. I remember staying at the KICC for over three days chasing after a nomination certificate, despite winning by a landslide in the primaries. The certificate had been issued to the former MP. It took the intervention of the Disputes Tribunal to reverse the decision.Again, I won by a landslide on the Kanu ticket in 2007. Shockingly, I could not access the nomination certificate. I was tossed from office to office for three days and, on the fourth day, I was kicked out of an office. However, when I received the certificate, I was assaulted by Kanu goons and ended up in hospital. I would not have participated in the 2007 General Election if it were not for Martha Karua, who got me the PNU ticket through Narc Kenya.The Kanu ticket for Mt Elgon was issued to the current Trans Nzoia Senator, Henry ole Ndiema, for a constituency he has never lived in let alone understood. I lost in the election and ole Ndiema also lost &ndash; to ODM's candidate Fred Kapondi.