When Baringo county went to the nominations a month ago, it was expected that the status quo would remain intact, as had been the case for some years.But the people spoke through their only lethal weapon &mdash; the vote &mdash; and mowed down mugumo trees, whose roots had spread deep, far and wide.The notion that it is unthinkable to uproot an incumbent was edged in the minds of the leaders in power, such that they did not campaign enough to convince the people to reelect them.Governor Benjamin Cheboi went to slumberland as soon as he realised that he had no worthy opponent who he thought was his main challenger. It was then that Simon Chelugui, decided to go for the Senate seat early this year.Cheboi did a lot of harm to himself when he ignored one of the governor aspirants, Stanley Kiptis. Never in his wildest imagination did he imagine that Kiptis, a former primary school teacher and Knut secretary for Baringo county, could floor him.Incumbents left standing after the bruising primaries are Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Senator Gideon Moi and Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim.Kipchoim and Woman rep aspirant Susan Cheseiyna don&rsquo;t have strong opponents. This means they have already sailed through just as governor candidate Kiptis has. For these leaders, August 8 will be just a formal ritual.Cheptumo faces strong candidates but this does not imply much. The man has represented Baringo North since 2007 and through those years, he has ensured his political roots run deep and wide. Going by the look of things, Kiptis is already the next Baringo governor. His only problem now is the winning margin. By and large, the voters in Baringo are gazing at the Senate duel between Chelugui and retired President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s lastborn son, Gideon. Chelugui had all along been training his eyes on the governor seat but in January, he decided to give the Baringo senator a run for his money.His about-turn raised eyebrows with a section of the voters claiming that the Betting Control and Licensing Board director decided not to oppose Cheboi after DP William Ruto talked him out of it. They claimed the DP wants Chelugui to deal with his political nemesis and send him to Kabarak to join his father in retirement.But Chelugui says he is his own man charting his political destiny on his own terms. But will he run Gideon out of town?The mathematics he is applying is calculated to wrest the Senate seat from Gideon.What Gideon lacks by way of the gift of the gap hemakes up for with his fat wallet. On the other hand, Chelugui presents himself to the people as the son of peasants, looking to realise his dream as Baringo senator. He is also a man of the people ready to get his hands dirty in working for them.Since his days as the Baringo Central MP, Gideon is viewed as a man who prefers to be left alone by his constituencies. He has thus erected an impenetrable wall between himself and residents. His three assistants are the link between him and the people.This is the wall the people want demolished. They want an accessible leader. They think they have that person in Chelugui.Gideon is faced with the possibility of being a one-term senator. He was also a one-term MP.The residents would rather have Chelugui than have Gideon, whose father they accuse of amassing vast wealth during his 24-year rule, instead of raising their living standards. Gideon has a soft spot for the warlike Pokot community in the county. This has earned him the nickname &ldquo;bandit sympathiser&rdquo;.The Tugen community feel that Gideon is too soft on the perpetrators. Gideon has interests in the natural resources found in Tiaty such as the geothermal reserves in the Silale area. It is, therefore, natural that he gets cosy with the Pokots in whose area the resource is found.Since the rest of Baringo sent home their 2013 elected leaders, the electorate has a good reason to send Gideon home. Chelugui should align his campaign on these facts and August 8 will be his day of celebration. Jebet is a journalist and a political analyst