NASA has promised to raise the bar on ethics and integrity higher than what has been the case under the Jubilee administration.The coalition's principals are flag &nbsp;bearer Raila Odinga (ODM), DP candidate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM).In the their manifesto that will be launched on Monday, Opposition leaders note the corruption Kenya has been suffering is a product of impunity.They say laws and institutions for combating corruption cannot work when the presidency is the refuge of the most corrupt. "We cannot end corruption when there is no line between public interests and the private business interests of the powerful," states the manifesto. More on this: Kenya needs to see a 'big fish' convicted of corruption - EACC boss Also read:&nbsp; EACC lets big fish go and hurts war on graft, says Keter The manifesto states ending impunity is not a government policy issue but a leadership imperative. NASA&nbsp;emphasises&nbsp;its bid&nbsp; to provide leadership to a nation that has the resolve to liberate itself from impunity and culture of corruption. The document says&nbsp;there will be no half-way house, a culture of impunity or defiance to the rule of law. NASA chiefs promise&nbsp; resolve, commitment and courage, and say:&nbsp; "This is our promise to Kenyans. There will be sacred cows. The culture of impunity will end on day one." This was also DPP Keriako Tobiko's promise where health speech concerned amid campaigns for the August 8 general election. In January,&nbsp; Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu confirmed that Auditor General Edward Ouko was investigating the alleged theft of Sh5 billion at the ministry. Mailu said the ministry would await the findings and recommendations of the audit but did not specify the time-line within which the report would be ready.Read: Auditor investigating Sh5bn Health ministry scandal, CS Mailu saysTHE HEALTHCARE PROMISEThe Opposition further says it will not&nbsp;tolerate conflict of interest but be transparent in everything they do. They further say they will introduce&nbsp; the Universal Health Service Fund (UHSF) as a "cure" for medical bills. The operations portion of the government's health budget will be channeled into the fund rather than being disbursed to hospitals. "The public will contribute a minimal amount, which will entitle them to free services in designated health facilities. [The facilities] will bill the fund for every patient they treat just as they do for patients with NHIF cards and private health insurance," the manifesto reads.The leaders also promise to&nbsp;ensure money meant for patients is not spent on furniture, workshops or other items health workers often spend money on. They also say they empower&nbsp;patients to seek services in hospitals that provide good services. "Facilities will have to be responsive to patients, because failing to do so will mean loss of revenue, unlike today when public health facilities are assured of budget whether they provide good services or not."The coalition says it will spearhead a caring nation where every person has the right to the highest standard of health, accessible and adequate housing and reasonable standards of sanitation.It further promises a nation free from hunger with adequate food of acceptable quality, clean and safe water in adequate quantities and social security.&nbsp;&nbsp;