Respect NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga, you are not his equal, Deputy President William Ruto has been told.Vihiga Senator George Khaniri on Tuesday said the insults Ruto hurls at Raila casts doubts on the DP's leadership capability. &ldquo;Raila has sacrificed his life for Kenyans [while] Ruto ... has done nothing for the country other than looting,&rdquo; he said.Khaniri said Raila deserves a reward for his devotion to the struggle for democracy and not insults. He was speaking at Busali market. He said it is regrettable that Ruto has turned Raila in to his campaign manifesto instead of telling Kenyans how Jubilee will correct the economic mess it has created in four years.Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and secretary general Nick Salat on June 11 urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to tame Ruto failing which the party would support NASA.&ldquo;We have called a meeting with the President to discuss the issue because it is discouraging to see elected leaders being insulted by some leaders from the Jubilee side,&rdquo; Baringo Senator Moi said.Khaniri asked Uhuru to stop commissioning projects initiated by other leaders. He said Uhuru has not initiated any project in the region.&ldquo;The church projects he rushed to commission in Vihiga on Sunday have nothing to do with his administration. He should come here and tell the people of Vihiga what his government has done,&rdquo; Khaniri said. He said Sigiri Bridge, which collapsed on Monday, was one of the projects being rushed by Jubilee to hoodwink residents to vote for it.The Sh1.2 billion bridge linking Bunyala South and North collapsed on Monday, injuring several masons. Uhuru, during his tour of Busia county on June 14, hailed the project, saying it would ease movement.Khaniri said NASA will review the projects initiated by Jubilee when it comes to power.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re saying that for example, Sh1.2bn is not just pocket [change]. They must explain how they used taxpayer money because all the projects are over prices and hurried for political reasons,&rdquo; he said.