LSK wants IG Joseph Boinnet removed from office for failing to stop extrajudicial killings by police officers. President Isaac Okero said the continued killings clearly indicate Boinnet should be sacked, under article 245 of the constitution. "We are studying the situation with a view to petitioning for the removal of the Inspector General of Police for incompetence and violation of the constitution," Okero said. He spoke on Friday after a peaceful procession from Milimani law courts to the Office of the President, through the Supreme Court and the IG's office where they presented a memorandum. International Justice Mission, where Kimani worked, also took part in the march. The procession was the culmination of a week-long 'purple ribbon' campaign in honour of human rights lawyer Willy Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri who were murdered. The bodies of the three who went missing after a court session were retrieved from a river in Kilimambogo on June 30 last year. They had been missing for about a week. More on this: [VIDEO] Bodies of missing lawyer Willie Kimani, client, driver found in Kilimambogo river The memorandum gives the IG 14 days to provide the number of people killed in the last year as well as the names, designations and ranks of officers suspected to have been involved. Okero said Boinnet should also explain steps taken to investigate the incidents and policies developed on executions. "We are exploring the possibility of filing a class action against the AG, the Inspector General and the National Police service for compensation of families of victims of extrajudicial killings." He said to enhance investigations, the government should ensure those involved are not the suspects. The Law Society of Kenya unveiled a scroll at the Supreme Court's museum in honour of Kimani, Mwenda and Muiruri. Okero said the society is happy with progress in the case but asked the courts to partner to fast-track it. AP officers Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet, Silvia Wanjiku and informer Peter Ngugi are on trial. It is suspected that Kimani and the two others were abducted on June 23, 2016 and held in a container at Syokimau AP camp before they were brutally killed. IJM held #MachoziYaJana dialogues in several parts of the city, sessions during which members of the public recounted killings and reiterated calls for action by the government. More on this: I'm still looking for my son's body, mother pleads as #MachoziYaJana dialogues wrap up Also read: We are living in a police state! Families of youth slain by rogue cops speak out