Waris Dirie (whose name means &lsquo;desert flower&rsquo;) is an internationally renowned model who has worked with top brands like Chanel, L&rsquo;Oreal, Revlon and Levi&rsquo;s. She has also not only had a minor role in the James Bond Movie The Living Daylights ( 1987 ) but also went on to serve as a UN Special Ambassador for Women&rsquo;s Rights in Africa, particularly speaking out on FGM, an ordeal she underwent at age five. The latter perhaps gives insight into the story of this woman, away from all the glitz and glam. The first chapter sets off with Waris encountering a lion under the scorching African desert sun, too weak to even stand up after not having eaten for days. This nightmare journey begins with her family of Somali desert nomads from whom she decides to escape after her father agrees to marry her off to a 60-year-old man in exchange for five camels. She is only 13 at the time. The plan is to run off to the country&rsquo;s capital of Mogadishu, where she has never been, to seek refuge with an aunt she has never met, carrying and wearing nothing but a scarf draped around her. What follows is a tale of true courage and resilience that later sees her working as a house help at the Somali embassy in London. When the then ambassador&rsquo;s term comes to an end, a penniless and illiterate Waris is left to seek work as a janitor at a McDonalds outlet, and it is here that she is discovered by fashion photographer Terence Donovan. Co-written by Cathleen Miller, Desert Flower is a gripping account of one woman&rsquo;s journey who beats all odds to find love, a career and a new life&rsquo;s purpose. A biographical film on the book was released in 2009 under the same name, starring Ethiopian-born model Liya Kebede.Excerpt:In Morocco, my movie career consisted of a couple of scenes where I was supposed to be what the script called &ldquo;a beautiful girl lying around the pool&rdquo;. Then I was in another scene where we were sitting inside this fantastic house in Casablanca, having tea,yet for some reason all the women were naked. James Bond flew through the bloody roof, and we threw our hands up to our faces and screamed... But I thought, &lsquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not complaining. Since I didn&rsquo;t get a speaking part, at least that means I don&rsquo;t have to worry about the fact that I can&rsquo;t read.&rsquo;