The Kenya Revenue Authority plans to recruit more agents to increase tax collection from real estate sector in the next financial year from July. The taxman says it will this month increase withholding tax agents to 1,000 from present 800 in a move targeting corporate tenants and public institutions. &ldquo;Anyone can be identified for appointment. We are targeting to collect Sh200 million per month from the agents,&rdquo; KRA manager in-charge of real estate Alice Kiptoo said at a forum on rental income and capital gains tax. The rule on withholding tax on rental income, effected on January 1 this year, applies to both residential and commercial properties where agents are required to deduct 10 per cent of the gross rent paid to landlords and remit the same to the KRA. &ldquo;We introduced withholding tax on rental income to be able to gather intelligence on landlords and specifically we were targeting the corporate tenants and public institutions because they pay above market rent prices,&rdquo; Kiptoo said. The taxman said that the move would enhance tax compliance in the real estate sector which continues to report low revenue despite increased growth and development. Kiptoo said that a survey conducted by the revenue collection agency showed that only 12 per cent of landlords are presently remitting tax on rental income. The survey sampled supermarkets, banks and state corporations with multiple outlets across the country. &ldquo;This informed us that people are receiving so much. We need to get these landlords into our database and at the same time increase our revenue,&rdquo; Kiptoo said. In the four months to April tax collection from landlords was Sh4.8 billion, the taxman said. This is a 220 per cent increase from Sh1.5 billion during the same period in 2012 when the agency enhanced measures to increase tax revenue from the sector, considered to be lucrative in return on investment. The initiative is part of the authority's aggressive approach in tracking down tax evading landlords following a one-year amnesty that ended June 30, 2016 that saw the taxman register 40,000 new landlords. This helped net tax to the tune of Sh10 billion. &ldquo;These are some of the programmes we have in place post-tax amnesty that will fas-track our operations geared towards increasing compliance,&rdquo; KRA deputy commissioner for domestic taxes department James Ojee said. &ldquo;Our target is to get at least 20,000 new landlords annually.&rdquo; The taxman is also enhancing partnerships with bankers, lands officers, power officials and others institutions to track down non-compliant landlords.