Unemployment among youths, especially rural women, is worryingly high. The vast majority of the 10 million African youths who enter the job market annually are either unemployed or underemployed. While youth are optimistic about the future &mdash; which they believe will bring more jobs, better access to quality health and education &mdash; they are strongly inclined to give or take a bribe, evade taxes and engage in electoral fraud. The political and bureaucratic processes lack both imagination and creativity to harness the unprecedented abundance of Africa&rsquo;s youthful human capital. The AU&rsquo;s African Youth Charter signed in 2006 remains an innocuous document. Conversations across the continent, from Accra to Nairobi are unanimous about a future in peril. The state of Africa&rsquo;s youths is not strong because they are not willing to step up to the plate. Their state is feeble because we don&rsquo;t care enough and think someone else will deal with it. The corridors of public offices on the continent are teeming with highly paid consultants, donors and foreign NGOs grappling with Africa&rsquo;s problems. Yes we need help: But the help we receive cannot be modeled on the classical industrial age paradigm. Our path to prosperity and a secure future where youth thrive must be powered by Africa&rsquo;s own unique, novel and contextually relevant ideas. There is not an overabundance of easy solutions. Building inclusive prosperity, providing African youths with the right skills and creating well-paying jobs will demand everything of our politicians and policymakers. It will demand more than hollow charters or declarations from the African Union. First off, our education system, at all levels, must prepare our youths for an unknown future. We must educate for a post-knowledge economy. Standardised tests powered by rote learning and unthinking regurgitation must be replaced by an orientation to analytical reasoning, experimentation, discovery and problem-solving. Creativity and innovation, not basic numeracy and literacy must become goal of education. But our education must prepare young Africans not just for the workplace. Great citizens and ethical leaders are sorely needed on the continent. Citizenship is more than nationality or ethnic ties. Citizenship is a sacred obligation to service, a commitment to common aims and a constitutional injunction to civically engage. Ethics is about rectitude. It is about values. An ethical leader is honourable, persuaded by decency and an invariable commitment to justice. Ethical leadership springs from the wells of great and vigilant citizenship. A strong predisposition among youth to bribery, tax evasion and electoral fraud is an indictment on our societies. It betrays a fundamental and simultaneous failure of citizenship and leadership on the adult side of the aisle. Ours is a case of a rotten barrel spoiling a bumper crop of apples. Fix the barrel.