Olympics 1,500m champion Faith Chepng&rsquo;etich leads contingent of Kenyan track stars to the Diamond League meeting in Paris on Saturday.Fresh from winning the 1,500m at the national trials last week, Chepng&rsquo;etich will be looking to lay down a marker in the French capital with the world championships barely a month away in London.Chepngetich has two wins under her belt in this year&rsquo;s campaign after winning in Shanghai in May in 3:59.22 and Eugene in the same month in 3:59.67.Chepng&rsquo;etich said she is in good form and will be attempting to improve on speed work and endurance in Paris. &ldquo;I am in good form and so far things have gone well this season. Winning the trials last weekend was great and now I want to go to Paris and chase my third win of the season,&rdquo; she added. Chepng&rsquo;etich has set her sights on winning gold at the World Championship in London after settling for silver in 2015 in Beijing.There will be competitive Kenyan lineup in the race with Judith Kiyeng, Winny Chebet and Nelly Jepkosgei. Hassan Sifan of the Netherlands, Meraf Bahta of Sweden and Ethiopian trio of Tsegay Gudaf, Besu Sadou and Axumawit Embayew alongside Poland&rsquo;s Angelika Cichockha will be the some of the athletes to look out for in a loaded field for the race.World 3000m steeplechase champion Hyving Kiyeng renews rivalry with Olympic champion Ruth Jebet in the water jump event. The pair have met twice this season with Kiyeng edging Jebet in Doha and Jebet bouncing back to win in Shanghai in May. The race promises thrills and spills with former world youth and under-20 3000 champion Celliphine Chespol also in the mix. Chespol ran the second fastest time in the steeplechase in Eugene last month when she clocked 8:58.70. Only Bahrain&rsquo;s Ruth Jebet, whose world record is 8:52.78, has run faster. Others to look out for include Beatrice Chepkoech, Ann Gathoni, Norah Jeruto, Caroline Tuigong and Purity Kirui. Morocco&rsquo;s Habiba Ghiribi and Assefa Sofia are also in contention.World under-20 800m champion Kipyegon Bett will be seeking his second win of the circuit after cruising to victory in Shanghai in May. Bett clocked 1:44.70 but faces stiff competition from compatriots Ferguson Rotich, Alfred Kipketer, Willy Tarbei and Robert Biwott with former Olympic silver medallist Nijel Amos and home favourite Pierre Ambroise also in the mix.Cyrus Ruto, who clinched the 5,000m race at the trials last weekend leads four Kenyans in the 3,000m. He will be up against Collins Cheboi, Cornelius Kiplagat, Jonthan Ndiku and Ronald Kwemoi. They face herculean task from Ethiopian trio of Alamirew Yenew, Edria Muktar,Yomif Kejelecha alongside Abelaati Iguider of Morocco.