Kenyans were excited when they saw the new standard gauge railway start operating on the eve of Madaraka Day. Appropriately, President Uhuru Kenyatta named it the &lsquo;Madaraka Express&rsquo;.Sooner, rather than later, we will have to introduce an express train from Mombasa to Nairobi since I believe that railroad transport is the future of transportation in the whole world when it comes to middle and long distance travel.Further, electric trains and solar power-driven trains are bound to replace diesel-powered engines purely on environmental grounds. Already, in the city of San Francisco, solar powered urban transit buses are becoming the preferred mode of transportation. It is just a matter of time for developing countries like Kenya to realise that, in the long run, investing in solar and electricity powered trains and buses is both economical and environment-friendly.Having said that, I do remember as Minister for Planning and National Development, I was involved in discussions on building an SGR that would connect Mombasa to Busia through Kisumu, and connect Malaba and Eldoret to Mombasa. There were also possibilities of building a railroad from Lodwar through Rongai to connect with the Nairobi to Kisumu railway somewhere in the vicinity of Nakuru. Finally, Vision 2030 settled on giving priority to the present SGR and the Lapsset Project with the clear understanding that these would be regional projects so that the optimum economic benefits would be realised.Unfortunately, Eastern African countries, members of the East African Community that is, do not seem do be reading from the same script these days. The Kenyan SGR would make a lot of economic sense were it to complete its journey to Kampala and Kigali. In that regard, I don&rsquo;t agree with those who say that Tanzania&rsquo;s Central Line, which will connect Dar es Salaam and Bagamoyo to Rwanda and Burundi, will of necessity take business away from our SGR. If anything, they will be complementary since we do need many railways crisscrossing our countries in the future. The aim, of course, is for improved, efficient and more cost effective transport systems to stimulate economic growth in our countries. Such growth will, in return, subsequently create more demand for even more transport facilities,All this futuristic projection will no doubt be discouraged if our current initiatives run into headwinds too soon. It should not be forgotten that the joint venture to produce the Concord plane between the United Kingdom and France was hailed as a great project, an aeronautical feat of the century and a trailblazer for future revolutions in the air transport industry. Concord did not last long. Apparently, certain aspects related to its economic viability had not been fully appreciated, and well-meaning critics were dismissed as lacking enough information regarding the business deal. But it collapsed. And a few planes, after the others had been appropriately cannibalised, now lie in the museums of aeronautical science and certain airports. We cannot, therefore, bury our heads in the sand, like the proverbial ostrich, and fail to critically evaluate every major economic venture that we undertake. We must remain agnostic regarding their viability to ensure their success is grounded in firm reasoning and elimination of possible dangers. Project Mawingu at Kenya Airways is a living example. The Nyayo Car was yet another misadventure.Regarding the cost of building the SGR: Nobody has cared to explain why the Coalition Government could have arrived at a lower cost with the same contracting Chinese company that the Jubilee government re-contracted after re-tendering. Granted that Jubilee might have altered the original route, it is still necessary to show the extent to which this change is related to the variation, and at what percentage. Granted that there are at least 30 stations along the railroad, we are still entitled to know how many stations the Coalition Government envisaged. Granted that the elevation rises from Mombasa to Nairobi, one wonders whether Kenya&rsquo;s topography changed once UhuRuto took over as captains of this country. Granted that landowners were to be compensated, we are left asking why the costs varied from one regime to the other.In the final analysis, the money borrowed to build the SGR has come from the taxpayer, who is interested to know whether the project is a viable business that will pay for the capital invested in the shortest time possible, or not. After the debt has been paid while we are still alive, then we can enjoy our railway, subsequently paying less fare while travelling from Mombasa to Kisumu. It is such simple &ldquo; common garden arguments&rdquo; that eluded the Concord: I don&rsquo;t want them to elude us in the case of the SGR. It is such &ldquo;common garden arguments&rdquo; that Titus Naikuni and his board at Kenya Airways did not indulge in when they were conceiving and implementing Project Mawingu. I don&rsquo;t want us to evade such arguments when discussing the affairs of the SGR. We want the railway to succeed. We want it; we need it; but we don&rsquo;t want anybody to pull the wool over our eyes simply because we are so desperate to improve the way we travel. Don&rsquo;t dump cheap and anachronistic railroad wagons and engines on us; we need to belong to the future of railway transportation, not its past. In doing this, don&rsquo;t be penny wise and pound foolish in your financial calculations. What you think you are saving today you will pay for dearly in the future when you cannot find spare parts for your engines.But there is yet an elephant in the room, which we have not yet mentioned &mdash; corruption. Up there in Beijing, the government of the People&rsquo;s Republic of China may not be fully aware of the business practices of the executives of Chinese companies who win contracts in developing countries such as Kenya. It is now well-known that giving African authoritarian regimes kickbacks, which are then accounted for as part of the loan to finance the projects, is a common practice. The magnitude of these kickbacks can at times be minimal, and be properly accounted for as &ldquo;transaction costs.&rdquo; At other times they can be completely debilitating, sending whole nations down the path of irredeemable indebtedness. We seem to have suffered this last genre of a business deal in the SGR affair. Can someone in the Jubilee government allay our fears with what William Shakespeare once called &ldquo;ocular proof&rdquo;?