The short answer is, they had never been enemies. Uhuru and Ruto had been political allies for at least a decade, their separate political parties notwithstanding. Both were members of Kanu for more than a decade, the longest they have stayed in one political home.Yes, the charges against them at the ICC put them on opposite sides. The prosecutor framed the case against Uhuru and former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Muthaura as one motivated by retaliation. That is retaliation for the attacks that Ruto and radio journalist Joshua arap Sang were allegedly involved in planning and organising.I have carefully offered this flashback in the wake of worrying developments ahead of the August 8 general election. For a large part, during the 2007 PEV, other communities suffered collateral damage in what appeared to be a Kikuyu-Kalenjin tussle.Ever since, the two leaders paired up in one political vehicle and many lessons have been drawn up. The most pertinent, being that political competition is possible without spreading ethnic animosity in this country. Just when we as a nation need to be building on the gains made by Ruto and Uhuru in uniting the country, some leaders are indulging in the opposite &mdash; spewing ethnic venom for their political expedience. As Kenya prepares for the August 8 election, the political die seems already cast. With the opposition NASA facing off against the ruling Jubilee party, the political temperature is rising. Political diehards from both divides have been mobilising and inciting their followers in recent months.Ethnic tensions, in particular, are reaching dangerous levels given the persistent use of hate speech from both sides. Kenya cannot afford another spell of post-election violence, but who will contain the ethno-political &lsquo;dogs of war&rsquo; ahead of the polls?Already , the National Cohesion and Integration Commission is said to have launched a probe into hate speech allegations against Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi. The duo is said to have propagated hateful remarks during recent rallies. To save the country from disaster and guarantee a free and fair poll, the two should be charged iand locked up if found guilty of having breached the law. Leaders across the political divide should take cue from the President. He consistently warned politicians against spreading ethnic animosity among Kenyans ahead of the August 8 election. It is indeed unfortunate that the governor and the MP &mdash; both nominated by the Jubilee Party and hail from a region that was the hotbed of the 2007 PEV &mdash; made remarks perceived to be a threat to a certain community living in Uasin Gishu county if they vote for Zedekiah Bundotich, who is an independent governor candidate. It is also important that institutions mandated to ensure Kenyans conduct free and fair elections live up to the billing. In this case, NCIC should move quickly and investigate the politicians' statements to salvage the situation that has already sparked a heated debate on social media.It is very unfortunate that leaders have been quoted spreading ethnic hatred in broad daylight, knowing very well what happened in various parts of the county in 2007-08. The NCIC should investigate this matter before it gets out of hand. The Francis ole Kaparo-led commission should avoid being seen to apply the law selectively against culprits involved in hate speech. Only a coward threatens people to vote for them. It is a show of immature politics that should be condemned by all peace-loving Kenyans. Those inciting communities against each other should be arrested and charged. It is worth noting that electoral violence is not a new phenomenon in Kenya&rsquo;s political history. Before multi-party politics were reintroduced in 1991, political hardliners from the then ruling party, the Kenya African National Union, warned that such a move would undermine national unity, balkanise tribes and plunge the country into violence. Sure enough, the elections that followed in 1992 and 1997 were plagued with politically-motivated ethnic clashes, in which scores of people were killed and displaced and property destroyed.Unmoved by history, Kenya once more found itself caught in a conundrum of politically motivated ethnic tension and hate speech ahead of the 2007 polls. The outcome was widespread violence that left an estimated 1,300 people killed, thousands injured and around 600,000 displaced.With less than two months to go before the August polls, the current political climate can be likened to that, which preceded the electoral violence in 2007-08. A number of factors have led to this worrying scenario. First is the outcome of the 2013 presidential election, which left permanent scars of division and hatred between the opposition and Jubilee.The opposition believes that its victory was stolen in 2013, and continues to challenge the legitimacy of the Jubilee government. Jubilee, conversely, maintaining it won the election fair and square, and that the opposition is simply out to settle political scores in a bid to remain relevant. With time, the divide between the two political sides has not only become more extreme, but has also taken on an ethnic dimension. The result has been an environment of continuous political warmongering and ethnic hostility.The charges against politicians, however, don&rsquo;t even begin to scratch the surface of a deep-rooted systemic problem. Social media remains a haven for those seeking to propagate ethno-political hate speech, with no action taken against the perpetrators. This is because existing legislation is weak and implementation ineffective.Better legislation and stronger institutions will be needed to ensure individual and collective responsibility for attempts to incite hatred and violence. Efforts to encourage Kenyans to ensure political tolerance and ethnic diversity must also be ramped up if the country is to prevent electoral violence from recurring.President Uhuru and DP Ruto have consistently led by example in initiatives aimed at bringing Kenyans together. The establishment of the robust Jubilee Party has provided a political vehicle for all and sundry across the diverse ethnic board. It is incumbent upon us only to strive to unite this nation and not divide it. Kigochi is the leader of the Farmers Party