St. Anthony&rsquo;s Kitale and Wiyeta extended their dominance in the Rift Valley Region Secondary Schools Sports Association&rsquo;s games after winning the boys&rsquo; and girls&rsquo; football crowns respectively at Kabarnet High in Baringo County yesterday.St. Anthony&rsquo;s beat Chemase 3-0 as Wiyeta, also coming from Kitale humiliated Plateau Girls of Uasin Gishu in a 5-0 drubbing in the finals.Phillip Mayaka gave St. Anthony&rsquo;s advantage in the 36th minute and after the break, the forward who is the team captain, completed his brace in the 59th. Elly Saenyi hit the last nail in the 75th minute to condemn Chemase to the runners up position.St. Anthony head coach Peter Mayoyo lauded the boys for a solid fight and with character all through the championships.He said his charges worked really hard to reach the finals.&ldquo;The championships were tough but we were well prepared for the stiff competition. I am grateful the boys kept the focus. We now go back home and train ahead of the nationals,&rdquo; said Mayoyo.Mayaka, said they now want to make amends for their under 16 side who failed to defend their 2016 title last weekend in Mombasa.&ldquo;We are happy for the win and there will be little celebration as we now target to win the national competition,&rdquo; he said.Gentrix Shakangwa was the lead destroyer for Wiyeta in their win against Plateau. She notched in a brace in the 50th and 55th minutes to give her team a convincing win. Monica Etot opened the scoring spree in the 10th minute after which their opponents mounted a water-tight defence settling for a 1-0 score-line.Girls from Plateau took too long to settle in on resumption and barely a minute into the second half, Maurine Khakasa made it 2-0 as Shakangwa added her brace for 4-0. The former national champions continued to pile pressure in Plateau&rsquo;s area allowing Esther Wanyama to finally find the back of the net in the 59th minute. Plateau found their footing in the match too late and were forced to swallow a goal-less defeat.In volleyball, national champions Cheptil (boys) beat Tuiyo 3-1 (27-29, 26-24, 25-17, 25-21) in the finals as returnees Cheptil Girls also cruised to the nationals after a 3-0 (26-24, 25-23, 25-15) win over Kabuyefwe Girls, Kitale.Cheptil Girls locked out national and East Africa reigning champions AIC Kosirai at the Nandi County Games three weeks ago, hence there will be a new winner at the nationals in Nyeri next month.