Catholic clerics have asked the electoral commission to dialogue with key political players to end the standoff on the disputed Sh2.5 billion ballot paper printing contract awarded to Dubai firm Al Ghurai. The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops yesterday said the IEBC, chaired by Wafula Chebukati, should eliminate doubt about its ability to conduct free, fair, peaceful and credible August polls by ensuring all parties are satisfied with its preparations.KCCB chairman Bishop Philip Anyolo spoke at a press conference in Nairobi. Anyolo was flanked by Bishop Cornelius Korir of Eldoret Diocese and his Mombasa counterpart Martin Kivuva. NASA Pentagon principals, led by flagbearer Raila Odinga, want the IEBC to cancel the tender, saying there is a ploy to rig the election. They say top Jubilee leaders influenced the 120 million ballot paper printing tender award to Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing company. Chebukati and IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba, however, maintain the commission will not cancel the tender.&ldquo;The IEBC and political players should embrace dialogue. It is good to start the elections on a good move when all parties have agreed. Transparency and accountability by the IEBC is important,&rdquo; Bishop Korir said. Anyolo urged IEBC to hold fair polls because &ldquo;all catholic clerics and millions of Kenyans want peace and stability after the forthcoming general elections&rdquo;. &ldquo;We pray concerns for peace and common good may prevail over any kind of violence prompted by personal or ethnic ambitions during and after the elections,&rdquo; Anyolo said. Bishop Korir told politicians to preach unity during campaigns. He said the Catholic Church does not lean towards any political party or candidate because its members are in almost all political parties. &ldquo;We should resist any form of incitement, foster a unified nation, desist from irresponsible and inflammatory sentiments steering hatred wars. We condemn the upsurge of election-related violence among political leaders. We have no favourite candidates, but rather our duty is to empathize the moral values of political and social life,&rdquo; he said.Korir warned the voter&rsquo;s register &ldquo;will cause violence&rdquo; if the IEBC does not ensure it is clean and transparent before the election. The cleric also warned politicians against bribing voters and asked the electorate to turn out in large numbers to choose leaders of integrity. &ldquo;Political leaders are a reflection of our society. The corruption we are witnessing today is just a reflection in the mirror of who we are as Kenyans,&rdquo; he said.