Politicians Hassan Joho and Abdulswamad Nassir have turned the heat on Aden Duale following his remarks against Chief Kadhi Ahmed Mohdhar.In a tweet on Saturday, Duale who is National Assembly majority leader said: &ldquo;I urge the Muslim Umma to disregard the confusion that the Chief Khadhi wants to use to divide the Muslim Umma in our country.&rdquo;Joho (Mombasa Governor) and Nassir (Mvita MP) said Duale is a "loud-mouth" whose words are more divisive than unifying.They spoke on Monday during the county's annual Eid baraza.&ldquo;For the record, can the person called Duale respect our religious leaders? Respect is not slavery,&rdquo; said Nassir.The two leaders said there are issues only the Chief Kadhi understands and that politicians like Duale cannot.They said if the majority leader feels he cannot cope with the Chief Kadhi&rsquo;s pronouncements, he should follow his own ideologies.&ldquo;If you want to insult anyone, insult your fellow politicians. We know that is how your tongue is naturally made. You are so genetically modified that you have a lose tongue. But do it with other politicians. Do not involve religious leaders,&rdquo; sad Nassir.Joho told Duale, who is also Garissa Town MP: "My friend, let us respect each other. Respect our religious leaders. The teachings are very clear. If you do not want them follow your ways.&ldquo;If you wanted to pray yesterday, you should have done so. But do not mock the Chief Kadhi. It is God&rsquo;s commandment...we must respect leaders and the leadership. Let us play politics but we will not allow our Chief Kadhi to be insulted by political leaders."The fiery county chief further said the problem of the sighting of the moon did not begin yesterday and that this has been the case for generations.Muslims start and end the holy month of Ramadhan with the sighting of the moon.Traditional differences in the interpretation have dividedthem into two - those who believe the moon should be sighted anywhere in the world and those who believe it should be within one&rsquo;s locality.&ldquo;Differences will always be there. We are humans...but we must have humanity in us. If there is more you want, pick up the phone and call the Chief Kadhi,&rdquo; said Joho.The reaction by the two came hours after Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar also criticised Duale.Omar said those who celebrated Eid on Sunday and those who celebrated it on Monday are right and within the confines of the law and the Quran.More on this: Chief Kadhi is not Jubilee or NASA activist, get more lessons on Eid, Omar tells DualeThis is not the first time the majority leader has hit out at the Chief Kadhi over Eid celebrations.In 2013, he said Sheikh Muhdhar had been &ldquo;a disappointment&rdquo; to Muslims over his constant &ldquo;divisive&rdquo; announcements."We want the Chief Kadhi to use his position to unify Muslims, not bring disunity and conflict among them," he said concerning Eid-ul-Adha celebration.He added the event should be in line with the Hajj taking place in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.