Many governments do not really prioritise data collection and the political economy of that is very simple: the resources invested in data collection may not be very obvious to the average voter. But governments forget that without the data, you will get your policies wrong. The data is what tells you where you are, and helps you get to where you want to get to; and then you will get the votes when you get there. The High Level Meeting on ‘Data for Development in Africa’, taking place in Nairobi on June 29 and 30 is a gathering of governments, my own included, united in the belief that investments in data and data collection, are key to African development. The gathering is hosted by the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data, the Governments of Kenya and Sierra Leone, and Telco Safaricom in collaboration with the African Development Bank, the UN Economic Commission for Africa, and the Governments of Ghana, Senegal, and Tanzania. African countries have made commitments at national levels to roll-out innovations in the fields of: business, agriculture, civil registration, health, migration and data science capacity. Why bother? Why are we politicians not leaving this to our very capable statisticians and economists? It’s because the future of our continent, and in our case Ghana’s attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals rests upon our success in achieving a robust data regime that is collectively supported by all partners, including private sector, academia, NGOs, CSOs, and global institutions. Making the big changes that this requires will take ongoing leadership from ministers, from heads of agencies and from CEO’s. This isn’t a one day event where we hand back responsibility to the data wranglers after our speeches; I, along with Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore, United Nations Deputy Secretary General Amina Mohammed, Kenyan Ambassador Ken Osinde and others have joined the board of the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data to maintain international pressure to invest in data as a driver of global progress. We will do our part, and we need the rest of the world to do theirs. If the data is poor, you are going to make poor decisions. If the data cannot be broken down into even simple categories like men and women, old and young, racial groups, then people get overlooked or ‘left behind’ in development parlance. That is the primary motivation behind Ghana’s introduction of measures to capture real-time data on its citizen’s needs, starting with gathering better quality and more frequent data on the number and characteristics of our citizens, to enable us to better meet their needs. We are introducing a National Identification Programme which will capture and record the most significant events in Ghanaians’ lives while enabling better public services simultaneously. We have also taken the important decision to make birth registration a prerequisite for obtaining a National Identification Card, and so we expect to register millions of additional children and adults in the coming months. Significant life events will be captured via the system and this new trove of data will be used to provide better public services to Ghanaians and will also be a rich source of data for statistical purposes. Current estimates are that about 40 per cent of Ghana’s births go unregistered, severely limiting their life chances including opportunities to access education, healthcare, formal work or a passport to travel. A number of Ghanaians are born and depart the earth without there ever being a record of their existence. Many people don’t know how old they are. With proper identification, access to and provision of vital services will become much easier. By capturing more and better information on the lived realities of women and men, boys and girls, parents and children, we can root out inequalities and begin to address structural imbalances that undermine progress in Ghana. We in Ghana have decided that one of the major problems in terms of development, has been the largely informal nature of our economy. To modernize the economy, we need to formalize the economy. In addition to our National ID system, we are adopting some radical techniques to enhance our understanding of the economy. Ghana is exploring use of anonymized telco data for mapping and planning for internal economic migration and access to social services. We are working with the UK Office for National Statistics and DFID to strengthen strategic leadership and data science capacity in our National Statistical Office in collaboration with several other countries in the region. We have plans to enhance mobile interoperability with the banks to ensure that those people outside of the banking system can access financial services. We also intend to introduce a sophisticated digital mapping of addresses to capture institutions and businesses. When we assembled a comprehensive address system in just one district, the local government saw their tax income rise by over 400% in just one year. Think what this can do for government as a whole, and our ability to provide the services that our people desperately need. These measures are far in advance of many developed nations and demonstrate our ambition to harness data and technology for social good. That, for me, is the spirit of the data revolution in Africa, to determine solutions based on our continent’s unique circumstances, solutions that are forward-looking and prepare us for the world of tomorrow. To formalize our economies without falling back on economic or technological infrastructure that has become outdated. All of this is consistent with eliminating poverty and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The past is the past, but our forward-looking approach will provide data that not only tells us what has happened before but also helps us shape the future.