In most cases, when a girl gets pregnant before finishing school, it becomes the end of their education. The young girls embark on motherly roles, while others become wives at a tender age.Very few resume school for fear of being stigmatised by their fellow pupils and the teachers. This has, however, been different at one of the secondary schools in Eldama Ravine, as more than 10 per cent of girls are mothers.Situated in the rural area of Koibatek, Eldama Ravine, Simotwet Secondary School plays host to young mothers who strayed along the way and became parents before completing education.The school, which was started in 2015 through CDF funding, has 158 students. Contrary to what would be expected in such an area, where there is a huge gender gap in school attendance, the school has 85 boys and 73 girls.Among the 85 girls, more than 10 are mothers to between one and two children, while others are married. &ldquo;I have many teen mothers here. I have never turned anyone away because of having given birth, since there is still hope for them,&rdquo; head teacher Sarah Chelanga said.Phylis Kibet, 19, is in form two and doubles up as a mother. She fell prey to her primary school boyfriend, who impregnated her on their way from school in 2013.&ldquo;After I got pregnant, the boy who was responsible went ahead with his education, while I stayed home with the baby,&rdquo; said Phylis, who confirmed it was then that she decided she would go back to school. &ldquo;It was very unfair for me to stay home while the baby&rsquo;s dad went ahead with his education,&rdquo; the young mother said. After staying with the baby for two years, Phylis had an agreement with her mother that she would go back to school, leaving baby responsibilities to her.&ldquo;I approached the head teacher of the school, which was newly started then, and she agreed to take me in,&rdquo; she remembers.Being a mother and a day scholar student has not been easy for her. &ldquo;I still have a role to play as the baby&rsquo;s mother and also get home with assignments which I have to complete,&rdquo; she says. She says the teachers and students have been very helpful, and there is no single time any of them looked at her as mother but as the student she is.&lsquo;DISADVANTAGED GENDER&rsquo;Gladys Chelimo got pregnant in the first term of her class 8 year. As in Phylis&rsquo; case, Gladys was impregnated by a pupil, though from a different school. She dropped out but would go back to sit her KCPE examination while heavily pregnant. &ldquo;I regretted my actions but it was too late,&rdquo; she said. She gave birth in September, soon after completing the final exam.Seeing her baby daddy continue with education while she stayed home pushed her to want to go back to school. &ldquo;We are always the disadvantaged gender, but at that age we don&rsquo;t realise it until we mess up,&rdquo; she said. She only stayed with her baby for three months before joining form one last year. While distance has been blamed for the many pregnancies in schoolchildren, the head teacher says poverty has a big role in it. &ldquo;Schools here have a distance of 7-10km. Children walk long to and from school, and its at this time that they get time to experiment and get pregnant while at it,&rdquo; she said.Nancy Kibet is 23 and in form 3. For lack of school fees, Nancy dropped out of school several times and was forced to look for employment to help her struggling mum take care of her and her other siblings.&ldquo;I started working at a hotel as a cook at a very young age,&rdquo; she says. It was while there that she got exposed and got pregnant.She stayed with the baby for only a month before she went back to school. &ldquo;I lost more than three years out of school due to poverty, and one year because of becoming pregnant,&rdquo; remembers Nancy. She approached Chelanga (the headteacher), who enrolled her to school without hesitation.To get to the school, which is the nearest from her home, Nancy walks for more than two hours to and fro in the evening. &ldquo;Those are four hours on the road,&rdquo; she says. She said she has never experienced any stigma from either the students or the teachers. &ldquo;It has never been an issue. We play and do all others things with the others without any stigmatisation,&rdquo; she said.MOTHERHOOD IMPACTJoyce Cheruta became pregnant while in form 2. Cheruta, who has a strong persona and speaks with authority, refused to drop out until the journey to school became too long for her growing heavy pregnancy. &ldquo;I came to school until I was seven months pregnant,&rdquo; she says.After giving birth, she stayed home with the baby for only one week and got back to school. &ldquo;I would say I did not lose anything, I came back to the same class and, in fact, beat those who stayed all through in exams,&rdquo; she remembers.The form two student says her family and the family of the boy who got her pregnant had a meeting and they agreed that the boy&rsquo;s parents would stay with the baby. &ldquo;We are neighbours, so I can see my baby anytime I feel like, but they take care of him,&rdquo; she says. Like the others, Joyce confirms that the school doesn&rsquo;t stigmatise those who have children. &ldquo;We are many, so it&rsquo;s not a big deal here,&rdquo; she says. She, however, warns those who have not fallen victim to be careful and patient to finish their education first.According to the head teacher, the young mothers are always the best in class. &ldquo;Maybe it&rsquo;s because they have tasted life and are back with more seriousness than the rest,&rdquo; she says.TEACHER SHORTAGESimotwet Secondary School is a simple school sitting on one block that has three classes: form one, two and three. &ldquo;We progress as years come by. We started with a single form one classroom and those will be our pioneer students sitting KCSE next year,&rdquo; said the head teacher, who adds that she is proud to have many girls in school. Many students in the school are bursary-funded. &ldquo;Poverty is high in this area and the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) bursary has played a very big role in ensuring the most needy students remain in school,&rdquo; Chelanga said.Of all the NG-CDF projects, 55 per cent of the funds goes to education, while up to 25 per cent goes to bursary.With only two TSC teachers in the school and five others employed by the parents, it has been hard to get funds to pay them.&ldquo;We sometimes lack money to pay those teachers employed by the parents since, as I have told you, many students come from families that are not stable,&rdquo; she said, adding that that is the biggest problem she has been encountering.She is hopeful that, for the sake of continuity, the school will get more TSC teachers in the near future.