Record 11-time national football winners Kakamega High School shift focus to the Western Region Secondary Schools Sports Association Term Two &lsquo;B&rsquo; Games set between June 15 and 18 at Bungoma High.Fresh from winning the second edition of Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Copa Coca Cola under 16 football title over the weekend in Mombasa, the &lsquo;Green Commandos&rsquo; are keen to book a ticket to the nationals championships again.Three of their players who are from winning the under 16 trophy will feature in the school&rsquo;s senior side, thus no resting. Rightback Fredrick Alushula, fullback Samson Oteto and forward Evans Odhiambo travel to Bungoma this afternoon to link up with the team.Whereas the senior school lineup will want to replicate their under 16 counterparts, the trio (Oteto, Odhiambo and Alushula) will be out hunting for a double. Green Commandos&rsquo; head coach Brenden Mwinamo is optimistic the boys will deliver and that fatigue won&rsquo;t mar their performance.&ldquo;It is not unusual for the boys to manage congested fixtures. They only have three days to relax. We have put them on hydrotherapy which will help them fair well,&rdquo; said Mwinamo, whose team play in the Division One Super League where they lie fourth with 18 points and three matches in hand in the 14-team.The recently crowned tactician said his Bungoma-bound outfit has had their regular training throughout and they will not underrate any opponent.&ldquo;We have been doing our normal training, a bit of strength and conditioning, but we have now zeroed in on mental strength. All teams who advanced to the this (regional) level are very tough and are worthy opponents. We are focusing on our first game after which we shift to the next,&rdquo; added the coach.The former national football bigwigs have three hurdles to beat in the preliminary stage as they seek to book a berth to the finals of 2017 Airtel Rising Stars.St. Paul&rsquo;s Amukura (Busia), Kamusinde (Bungoma) and Vihiga High lie in wait. Vihiga County champions Kigama, Friends School Misikhu (Bungoma), Busia runners up Bujumba and St. Ignatius Mukumu (Kakamega) battle out in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;.Meanwhile, former girls&rsquo; regional champions, Butere (Kakamega), come face-to-face with Chebukaka (Bungoma), Aboloi (Busia) and Vokoli (Vihiga) in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; while Muhudu (Vihiga), Kingandole (Busia) Ibinzo (Kakamega) and Chelebei (Bungoma) lock horns in the first group.