Clinical officers have accused the government of holding the salaries of more than 1,700 diploma interns, who were posted to various public hospitals in March. The annual cost of the internship programme is more than Sh500 million, being inclusive of monthly stipends and allowances.The clinicians point out that the National Treasury this year allocated Sh2.7 billion for doctors, clinical officers and nurses internships. &ldquo;It is ironical for the government to pretend to the mass that they will pay graduate interns, yet the diploma clinical officer interns have been and are still working for 12 months without even a cent,&rdquo; Kenya Union of Clinical Officers deputy secretary general Austin Oduor said. Students taking diploma in clinical medicine and surgery undertake a three-year course in a recognised institution and an additional one-year of compulsory internship. Deserve to be paidThey are entitled to pay, with the main objective being to become gradually responsible to manage clinical cases in paediatrics, surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, gynaecology, and community medicine. Oduor said Labour Court Judge Monica Mbaru directed the government to rollout compensation for diploma interns but this has not been implemented. &ldquo;The respondents carry a public duty towards the officers, interns and staff under their care, employment and internship. Such responsibility includes the facilitation and support necessary for the interns posted in the first respondent facilities. The respondents cannot collectively run away from such duty and responsibility,&rdquo; she said in the ruling delivered in September 2015. The clinicians had sued the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Health and the Attorney General, demanding to be paid during internships just like doctors and nurses. &ldquo;This ruling has never been implemented. It could be better if the ministry started by implementing this and the 1,700 interns, who are now very instrumental in the ongoing nurses&rsquo; strike, be paid and in arrears,&rdquo; Oduor said. All the medical internship programmes are managed by the Ministry of Health, but the COs later apply for jobs in the counties. Last week, Migori Governor Okoth Obado said he will start paying COs in his county Sh15,000 every month as he waits for the national government to take over.Pay guideEarlier, the outgoing registrar of the Clinical Officers Council, Micah Kisoo, said the government was formulating an internship policy to guide payment of the interns. &ldquo;The current trend is that only doctors and a few nurses get paid during internships. But we also realise that these students render services even as they train; we should cater for them as well,&rdquo; he said.