Kajiado Governor David Nkedienye would easily trounce ex-CS Joseph Lenku for the county&rsquo;s top job if elections were held today, a new poll indicates.The poll by Radio Africa Group indicates Nkedienye, one of the ODM pillars in the Maasai community, would win by 54 per cent against Lenku&rsquo;s 33 per cent.Thirteen per cent of residents are, however, undecided. Lenku, the immediate former Interior boss, trounced a host of aspirants in a tight contest to emerge the Jubilee Party candidate in a region seen as a battle ground between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga.dipping popularityBut according to the poll of 300 registered voters conducted between May 3 and 14, Nkedienye would beat Lenku in all the five constituencies. The poll indicates that Nkedienye has the highest support at 66 per cent in Kajiado Central and Kajiado South.Kajiado Central is the backyard of Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery, the Jubilee vanguard in the region. In the same constituency, Lenku&rsquo;s support stands at 28 per cent, while four per cent of residents are undecided. But Lenku&rsquo;s support dips even further in Kajiado South, with only 26 per cent support. Six per cent of the respondents are still undecided. In Kajiado East constituency, Nkedienye has 50 per cent backing, Lenku has 33 per cent, while 15 per cent are undecided.In Kajiado West constituency, the governor&rsquo;s rating stands at 54 per cent, Lenku is at 36 per cent, whiie eight per cent are still undecided. There is, however, a close race in Kajiado North.small marginThe poll indicates that Nkedienye&rsquo;s support in the constituency stands at 40 per cent, only three per cent ahead of Lenku. The former minister&rsquo;s support in the constituency stands at 37 per cent. A staggering 22 per cent of the residents are still undecided on how they would vote. The Radio Africa Group poll was conducted by Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing software with a margin of error of +/-5.4 per cent and a 95 per cent confidence level.The sample was guided by population proportionate to size as per the population and housing Census of 2009. Nkedienye and Lenku have been engaged in bare knuckle politics as they position themselves ahead of the August 8 vote.The governor says Lenku is &ldquo;a known national failure&rdquo; in reference to his sacking as Interior CS following frequent terror attacks. &ldquo;If he failed to handle the Interior ministry, how do you expect him to manage the entire county and its huge budget? He is a joker,&rdquo; Nkedianye said recently.