Police declared it as a terrorist attack, making it the third attack in three months in the UK. The Manchester terror attack killed at least 22 people and injured 59 others at an Ariana Grande concert at Manchester Arena on Monday May 22. ISIS took responsibility.And although Europe has suffered a number of terror attacks since March 11, 2004, when bombs on four Madrid commuter trains in the morning rush hour killed 191 people, these attacks have increased sharply since 2011. In April, there were attacks in Paris and Stockholm. In March, we had the Westminster attack, the Louvre in February and the Berlin Christmas market attack on December 16, 2016.Evidently, the West cannot give advisories to &ldquo;terror-prone countries&rdquo; with the same confidence they did before. Western media cannot refer to the Eastern African region as the &ldquo;hotbed of terror&rdquo;.In Kenya, there is also an increase in terror attacks, mostly targeting security forces. More than 30 have been killed.Every country is a target and a potential victim of terror attacks, regardless of how tight national security is. The threat exists, mainly due to individual and inspired attacks. One thing, however, remains. To win the war on terror, countries have to join hands and fight against a common enemy. Only this week there was a diplomatic tiff between Qatar and the Gulf Cooperation Council, among after the countries accused the former of aiding terrorism and sectarianism, which is quite ironical, a case of the pot calling the kettle black if you consider Saudi Arabia&rsquo;s track record in financing terror groups.On Wednesday, terrorists, who Iran&rsquo;s Revolutionary Guards said were ISIS militants sponsored by Saudi Arabia, attacked the Iranian parliament. At least 12 people were killed when the six attackers mounted simultaneous gun and suicide bomb assaults on the parliament building and the tomb of the republic's revolutionary founder, in one of the most audacious assaults to hit Tehran in decades. The targets were highly symbolic.In February 17, 88 people died in a Pakistan terror attack that left 250 injured. Surprisingly and shockingly, it didn&rsquo;t attract much attention form international media in terms of coverage. Mehdi Hasan of Al Jazeera wrote in The Intercept on May 31, &ldquo;For far too long, those of us who have warned of the threat from far-right, white supremacist terrorists have been accused of trying to shift attention away from the threat of ISIS and Al Qaeda &mdash; of acting as Muslim apologists.&rdquo; Today, the terror threat from far-right white supremacists is the terror threat that dare not speak its name, he said. Since September 12, 2001 the number of fatalities caused by domestic violent extremists has ranged from 1 to 49 in a given year. &hellip; Fatalities resulting from attacks by far-right wing violent extremists have exceeded those caused by radical Islamist violent extremists in 10 of the 15 years, and were the same in 3 of the years since September 12, 2001.In a nutshell each and every country is vulnerable. Despite intelligence gathering and improvement of security systems, kids are being inspired right from their bedrooms in Europe and driving trucks into crowds along the streets. And the more countries accused each other of sponsoring of supporting terror, the more vulnerable they become. Terrorists use this gap to launch attacks. As Samuel Huntington noted in his The Clash of Civilizations hypothesis, "the survival of the West depends on Americans reaffirming their Western identity and Westerners accepting their civilization as unique not universal and uniting to renew and preserve it against challenges from non-Western societies. Avoidance of a global war of civilizations depends on world leaders accepting and cooperating to maintain the multicivilisational character of global politics.&rdquo;