Several government initiatives in the recent past have succeeded in increasing the ease of doing business. The last annual World Bank Doing Business 2016 report placed the country third in the list of the world's most improved economies. The report ranks countries according to the ease of doing business based on ten topics and several indicators. A high ease of doing business means the environment is conducive to starting and operating a company. Kenya improved by 21 places in a single year to position 92 from previous year&rsquo;s 113. The opening of the Standard Railway Gauge has a positive impact on the score, and more so once the rail runs from Mombasa to Malaba. This is no mean achievement. First, it is a big stride towards the target to reach top 50 ranking by 2020. Second, research suggests a percentage rise in the score would translate into an increase of foreign direct investments of between $250 million and $ 500 million. Higher gains would be expected from local investment especially SMEs that lack the resilience to grow in a costly business environment. Overall, the country has improved 37 places since 2013 when it was placed at position 129. Admittedly, the country was ranked position 84 in 2008, but then it declined to the all-time high of 129 in 2013. Since then, it has gradually improved to the present position 92. There is need to protect this improvement trend and build on the gains made this far. To reach the targeted top 50 in the next three years requires a rise of 42 places from the current position 92. This means an average rise by about 10 places every year to meet the target. Such a rise seems manageable, when you consider a rise of 21 places was achieved in 2016 alone. More can be done to improve the ease of doing business further. It is notable that while previous focus was on Nairobi, counties are now new frontiers of growth. Out of the 10 areas in the score, dealing with construction permits, paying taxes and registering property performed particularly poor in that order. More importantly, these three areas showed little improvement year-on-year, indicating the need for major reforms. For instance, dealing with construction permits (which took 160 days), the worst performing area at position 152, requires 17 procedures with various authorities such as the county and National Environmental Management Authority. The score was lower than for Tanzania at position 136, and Zambia at position 78. Improving the ease of doing business is a race, and it means outrunning other economies. There is no scope to regress or stagnate. Kandie is the MD of IDB Capital