Some 447 Siaya primary schools have not started using computer tablets six months after receiving them because teachers have forgotten how to use them.The tablets received six months ago are lying unused in storerooms.The long-delayed and controversial Digital Literacy Programme is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s flagship projects.This was yesterday revealed by county ICT officer Levis Jwan. He attributed failure to use the tables to inadequate computer knowledge among teachers, who are to implement the programme.&ldquo;Some teachers were trained before the gadgets were brought to their institutions. For unknown reasons, they have forgotten how to use them and have to be retrained,&rdquo; Jwan said yesterday.He said 447 schools received tablets.The remaining 220 schools will receive tablets before end of July. A recent assessment by the ICT Authority on use of the tablets showed few schools hold at least one ICT lesson a week. The rest have no lessons.Jwan, who spoke during an interview with the Star, said many teachers expressed concern that the devices would slow down syllabus coverage and preferred to stick to the old teaching methods.The ICT Authority will retrain about 500 Siaya teachers to ensure they use the tablets during their lessons.&ldquo;We will train teachers in zones from July 4 to 19. These will be refresher sessions as they were trained earlier. We will emphasise the programme&rsquo;s importance,&rdquo; Jwan said.The officer said retraining teachers will go hand in hand with the launch of the programme in every school. In this way communities will be made aware of the the devices and their importance in education, he said.&ldquo;Parents and other stakeholders will be invited to create awareness. They will also be responsible for checking progress of the program and report to the local education office in case of lapses,&rdquo; he said.Jwan warned politicians against politicising the programme and urged everyone to support it to prepare children at a tender age for the digital age.&ldquo;The project is a Jubilee administration initiative, but it benefits every child. If we deny them this opportunity, it will be a great injustice,&rdquo; he said. Distribution of tablets and laptops in Siaya primary schools began in November last year. Bondo subcounty has 128 schools.