Four Makueni governor hopefuls were on Thursday cleared by IEBC county manager Aisha Mohammad to run in August.They are Governor Kivutha Kibwana (Wiper), David Masika (New Democrats) and Bernard Kiilu (Liberal Democratic Party) and Jubilee&rsquo;s Gideon Ndambuki.Kibwana said his opponents are just escorting him to victory and he will win with 95 per cent of the vote.&ldquo;We know that victory is ours, because my government was that of the people. Others are just escorting us to the election,&rdquo; he told journalists in Wote town. Kibwana said of all the 47 counties, his government had built the best devolution foundation, despite the wrangles between the executive and MCAs that lasted for nearly two years. He asked Makueni residents to reelect him so he completes the projects he started.Kibwana, the team leader for NASA campaigns in the region, said he will spend much of the time campaigning for presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka.The governor was accompanied by his running mate Adelina Mwau, his wife Nazi and other county government officials. He asked his opponents to conduct peaceful campaigns.Kibwana ditched the Muungano party to join Wiper in February. Kibwana and Kalonzo signed a working formula for the governor to run again for Makueni&rsquo;s top seat on Wiper.Kalonzo said the pact resolved persistent differences between Kibwana and Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr.others Masika, who is viewed as Kibwana&rsquo;s main challenger, asked the governor to prepare for a bruising battle.He said he had the majority of supporters in the county and is not afraid of the Wiper party, because he too supports NASA. &ldquo;I will beat Kibwana at the ballot. The fact that he is in Wiper does not give him undue advantage. I too support NASA and Raila&rsquo;s candidacy,,&rdquo; Masika said.He promised to work with the county employees in Kibwana&rsquo;s government if elected.Kiilu said if elected, he will work with MCAs and ensure they supervise county projects.He said he will have a master plan to end water shortage.&ldquo;We ask residents to give us an opportunity and we promise a transformed county,&rdquo; Kiilu said.Ndambuki also urged residents to vote for him, saying he had the best development track record when he was the MP for Kaiti. He asked resident to vote for leaders based on their performance, not political parties.