So, who linked Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s son Kennedy to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria? And why has Kuria, an ardent Jubilee adherent, changed his mind on supporting Kennedy to be a member of the East African Legislative Assembly? Sources whisper to Corridors that Kalonzo could actively be reaching out to Jubilee to support his son. This comes at a time when Kalonzo&rsquo;s key ally, Francis Nyenze, has already announced his backing for Jubilee. Majority leader Aden Duale and most of the Jubilee troops in Parliament have vowed to oppose Kennedy&rsquo;s nomination. ===The conduct of a long-serving senior female state security officer is raising concern in Kisumu. Word has it the woman&rsquo;s closeness with some political figures in the area is raising eyebrows. The public is wondering whether top security chiefs, including Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery, are not aware of some officers&rsquo; unbecoming behaviour. It is said the officer is mingling with politicians and goes as far as attending political rallies and wearing partisan party attire. Recently, her photo with a governor aspirant trended on social media, leaving many wondering if she is a politician or a security officer. She also openly supported &ndash; and reportedly financed &ndash; a parliamentary candidate during recent party primaries in the county. The public is wondering whether these extraordinary involvements are part of her job or just her own interests. In fact, there is such a huge stand-off over the matter that Kenya&rsquo;s would-be representative to the regional assembly missed the first sitting. ===A first-term ODM MP is now a man in a dilemma. The MP, who ran joint campaigns with a gubernatorial candidate who failed to clinch the party ticket and later came back as an independent, is now torn between his independent buddy and toeing the party line. Early last month, the ODM leader and NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, in a meeting with all party candidates in the lakeside city, advocated for a six-piece voting pattern and cautioned against any nominee siding with the independent candidate. The MP, who is not seeing eye to eye with the party&rsquo;s governor nominee, has resorted to avoiding all rallies and meetings convened by the nominee, and only campaigns for himself and the NASA presidential candidate.===An independent candidate allied to Jubilee Party has vowed that he will defend his seat and no one, including his immediate former party leaders, will compel him to back off. Word has it that the once-outspoken Nairobi MP insists he is a staunch defender of Jubilee.