Loss-making Telkom Kenya has hinted at igniting price wars in mobile data offering with the launch of a new corporate identity this morning. Helios Investment Partners, the majority owner, has reorganised Telkom&rsquo;s business structure and overhauled senior management at the firm which controlled a 7.4 per cent market share last December. The UK-owned but African-focused private equity fund, synonymous with Equity Bank&rsquo;s growth between 2008 and 2015, is set to drop the Orange brand in favour of a new identity after a year of strategising. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to preside over the rebranding of Telkom Kenya. &ldquo;The new corporate identity to be anchored on a new logo and slogan heralds a new dawn for Telkom Kenya and sets the stage for the telco&rsquo;s transformation agenda,&rdquo; the company said in a statement yesterday. Helios took control of Telkom Kenya from France Orange in June 2016 after lengthy negotiations which first came to the limelight in October 2015. This was barely two months after the PE firm completed sale of its 24.99 per cent stake in Equity Bank for a reported $500 million (Sh51.66 billion under prevailing exchange rates). Helios beat Viettel Group of Vietnam in the sale of 70 per cent stake after agreeing to relinquish 10 per cent to state, raising government ownership in Telkom to 40 per cent. The majority shareholder in June reorgnised Telkom&rsquo;s business structure into real estate, mobile, fixed and wholesale units, and named a new senior management team. Aldo Mareuse, a French national and a former chief financial officer at Orascom Telecom Holding, was named chief executive, Amer Atwi was appointed head of mobile division, while John Barorot became chief technical officer. Barorot, who previously held senior technical positions at Safaricom and Airtel, resigned as a non-executive director in Equity Group&rsquo;s Finserve and Mumias Sugar to take up the role at Telkom.Telkom also hired former Safaricom&rsquo;s head of finance, planning and analysis Sundararaman Pattabiraman as its chief finance officer last November, and subsequently made other senior changes. And after a year of strategising, Telkom appears to have identified mobile data as a priority battlefield in a bid to turn around the struggling telco. Telkom said Mareuse will &ldquo;unveil the company&rsquo;s strategic direction, announce data offers which are firsts of their kind in the market&rdquo;. The strategy is &ldquo;geared towards making the telco more affordable, accessible, exciting while giving consumers value for money&rdquo;, the telco added. Safaricom controlled 67.5 per cent share of the mobile data in December, the latest market report by the Communications Authority of Kenya shows. Airtel had a 19.7 per cent share, Telkom 7.1 per cent while Equity&rsquo;s Finserve controlled 5.6 per cent stake under the Equitel brand. Barorot said in a recent interview with the Star that Telkom has sunk $50 million ( Sh5.17 billion) into the upgrade and expansion of its network, mainly targeted at increasing 4G network.Safaricom has started rolling out advanced 4G network.