Raila&rsquo;s constant use of &ldquo;10 million Strong&rdquo; is not just an affront to this country but an assault on our hard-earned democracy. There are several major problems with this slogan.First, it is an absurd notion. No poll has shown Raila achieving anything even close to this number, or even ahead against his rival President Uhuru Kenyatta.However, it seems as if Raila is creating fertile ground to dispute the August 8 election results. Coupled with his constant almost hourly attacks against the IEBC, and even the highly respected KPMG auditors, it would seem that the ODM leader is preparing a strategy to dismiss the election results come what may. We know, sadly, that when the election results are hotly disputed by one of the candidates, violence and bloodshed may not be far behind.In fact, Raila is so confident of this number, he states that this is the minimum he knows he already has. This means he is resorting to tribal tallying, and this new slogan is just a rehashing, with slight modifications, of his forty against one strategy that plunged Kenya into chaos and mayhem after the 2007 poll.Once again Raila supporters are being fed and conditioned that the election is a done deal, and any deviation from that means someone is lying and faking the results.Just as nefarious is the fact that weeks before the polls even open, Raila already feels that he has 10 million votes in his back pocket.In fact, at this point in time, weeks before the polling booths open, neither aspirant has a single vote. It is arrogant and undemocratic to talk about having 10 million, 10,000 or even 10 votes in your pocket ahead of elections.It is for the Kenyan people &mdash; and only the Kenyan people &mdash; to decide how many votes the aspirants will receive and that will only take place on August 8.Any talk of assured votes is not only egotistical: It is beating the drums of tribalism and division.In a true democracy, no aspirant or candidate talks about how many votes they have already secured. They know that this will come across as arrogant and put off voters, harming their chances of election.Raila doesn&rsquo;t appear to care about such sentiments and takes his supporters for granted as if they can&rsquo;t decide for themselves. What should make this even more worrying for people considering their vote for Raila is that he started spreading this slogan before ODM even released a manifesto or vision of what it wants to achieve. He believes that, by the sheer cult of his personality, he will win over half of the registered electorate immediately.Unfortunately, this is the attitude of a narcissist who believes that he was born for the highest office, and the people should realise this dream by sending him there, not because he deserves it, or has a strong and decisive vision, but merely because of the cult of his personality. In Africa, we are familiar with this behaviour: It is what has led to dictatorships and autocratic leaderships across the continent.So the alternative analyses of what lies behind the &ldquo;10 million Strong&rdquo; slogans are equally worrying.Either Raila is laying the groundwork for disruption, disquiet and a questioning of the election results, which could certainly lead to violence, or he is displaying a deeply problematic narcissistic behaviour which will have very alarming ramifications for Kenyan democracy, growth and progress.Neither scenario is one which any Kenyan would like to see. So we must call on Raila, supporters and opponents alike, to refrain from the politics of division, tribalism, arrogance and disdain. We must demand a fair and free election, with real campaigns focussing on the issues that really matter to Kenyans. We need to loudly condemn leaders who use a dog whistle to rally the troops, and coded messages for the dismissal of democratic, institutional and constitutional norms.Then each of us will be provided with the tools vital to our right to vote. This is our most treasured right, one which we fought for many years to achieve, and we must reject anyone who tries to take it away from us, or thinks that they have it in their pocket like some trophy they can display to the outside world. Raila, Kenyan votes must be earned and not used as a weapon in your campaign. At the moment, the only vote you have, for certain, is your own.