A clenched fist, ocean waves, rugged mountains, shifting clouds, trees and coconut palms, ceremonial body painting, zebra stripes &mdash; these are some abstract elements in the nine spectacular SGR stations.Stretching from Mombasa to Nairobi, they embody both ancient and modern, unity, diversity and vigour of modern Kenya.Gateways and bridges are strong symbolic elements, as the SGR represents an economic pathway and connection between Kenya and China, the contractor.Constructed with &ldquo;green&rdquo;, environmentally friendly technology and materials, the stations are far more than places to switch trains and grab a bite to eat. They &lsquo;work with&rsquo; and suggest their natural surroundings. They are places to savour and experience.There&rsquo;s a curving, shimmering wall of glass prisms, a tower suggesting a lighthouse beacon for mariners, a steel roof sloping to the ground and evoking traditional African architecture. And there&rsquo;s the locomotive motif.If a list were compiled of Kenya&rsquo;s 100 remarkable architectural designs, the nine stations of the standard gauge railway would stand out.Inspired by their environment, each is distinctive.The nine stations are now fully operational, following the launch of the SGR by President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 1. Some are in the final stages of construction. Built by China Road and Bridge Corporation and a small army of Kenyan staff, the stations use materials sourced locally, such as stone, and imported from China.We examine the inspiration behind the designs and what makes each a masterpiece.Mombasa TerminusLocated on the north side of Dongo Kundu Road, the station is about 10km from Old Town and three kilometres from Moi International Airport. The main body of the station is divided into three parts: the main station, a multi-use building and signature landscape tower. It covers 13,000 square metres.The design was inspired by a lighthouse, ripples and sea view, creating a modern landmark.It highlights the marine economy and culture, promotes area&rsquo;s development and burnishes the city&rsquo;s image.Nairobi TerminusThe 15,000-square-metre station is on the southwest side of the Nairobi-Mombasa highway, about 11km from the city centre and three kilometres from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Its design integrates concept of a bridge, gateway and locomotive.It highlights the friendly cooperation between Kenya and China and the concept of accelerated economic growth. It&rsquo;s a Nairobi landmark that enhances the image of the capital. Athi River StationThe station in Athi River, 64km from Nairobi, covers 2,665 square metres. The structure coexists harmoniously with its hilly surroundings.New construction materials give the building a sense of the times. In elevation, it revitalises local building styles and introduces the big roof design of old buildings in Africa.But it extends part of the roof to the ground, reflecting indigenous African architecture.Emali StationEmali is an important traffic corridor. The 2,708 square-metre building is intended symbolise the unity of Kenya, embodied by a clenched fist structure, conveying vigour. The simple fa&ccedil;ade contains strong sculptural elements, both local and modern features. The titanium-zinc material and skylight provide ventilation and shade. The &ldquo;green&rdquo; construction has low energy consumption. Kibwezi StationKibwezi is the traffic centre of Makueni. The building covers 3,131 square metres and draws on traditional architecture, evoking African themes. The steel roof, with its long cantilever, provides shelter from sun and rain. It is not only aesthetic but also provides ventilation.Mtito Andei StationMtito Andei is near the-Tanzania border, 290km from Nairobi. Design of the 2,000-square-metre station was inspired by mountains, clouds, trees and geometric elements. The dramatic sloping roof symbolises mountains. The &lsquo;waving&rsquo; curtain wall facade consists of many glass prisms in an interlacing pattern.Voi StationLocated in Voi town on 2,112 square metres, its design was inspired by founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, who advocated the spirit of unity and harmony (harambee &ndash; pulling together). The designers considered Kenya&rsquo;s 43 tribes with different languages, body types, lifestyles, cultural backgrounds and economic activities. Despite this, they are all willing to live on this rich and fertile land. The V shape of the building stands for Voi.Miasenyi StationMiasenyi is an important traffic hub close to the Mombasa port. The station occupies 2,314 square metres. The stripe elements symbolise zebras&rsquo; stripes and ceremonial body painting of some communities, symbolising solemn ceremonies in Africa. The projecting white walls stretch horizontally, creating a sense of dynamism. Two outer walls at opposite sides lean inwards. The building is white and brown, in keeping with local colours. The construction has strong regional characteristics, looking powerful and vigorous.Mariakani StationThe station in Mariakani town is 36km from Mombasa port. It is divided into three areas &mdash; passenger transport, cargo transport and living area. The main part of the two-storey building covers 3,773 square metres. The building maintains the core concept of a railway station with distinctive local characteristics inspired by the climate. It is characterised by coconut tree-style porticos around the building and relatively large cornice sun louvres. The load-carrying capability of the porticos is taken into consideration to support the large cornice sun louvres. These provide not only ventilation and shade but also a comfortable and beautiful space in the core area of station.