Jubilee nominee for Mombasa governor Suleiman Shahbal on Monday evening sought the support of the Somalis living in the county in his bid. He met with the community members at Qubaa Hall in Mvita constituency during an iftar, where he persuaded them to rally behind him. The Somali in Mombasa are divided, with one camp supporting the reelection of Governor Hassan Joho, whereas the other faction backs President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party. And both Joho and Shahbal are seeking their endorsement. Last week, a section of the community led by Abdulrahman Yusuf said they will endorse Joho before the end of Ramadhan. However, another group led by chairperson Mohammed Hurie distanced itself from Yusuf’s comments, saying he does not represent the community. The camp that supports Joho says they were awarded two powerful slots in the county — the trade docket and the governor’s political adviser position. On Monday, Shahbal pledged to work closely with the Somali community members once elected governor. He said he will help fix their challenges, including discrimination. “I want us to partner and make sure we change this county,” Shahbal said as he drummed up support for President Uhuru. “If you go around the country, especially in areas that are predominantly Somali, you will find they all support Jubilee. You, as the Somali community in Mombasa, need to follow that route too,” Shahbal said. However, the community chair, Hurie, said they are going to make their stance public after the Holy month of Ramadhan ends. “Shahbal has approached us several times, and we really appreciate that. But we are going to make our position known on the day of Eid or thereafter,” Hurie said. Although they are not many in numbers, the Somali control substantial wealth in Mombasa because of the businesses they own. They are, therefore, an integral part of the county politics, especially in terms of campaign financing. The majority of the voters in the region are the Mijikendas followed by the Kambas, the Luo and the Luhyas.