Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said his differences with Mumias East MP Ben Washiali originated from Mumias Sugar Company politics.Oparanya said he differed with Washiali after he dissuaded President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto from transferring the 20 per cent shareholding in the company to the county. &ldquo;I asked Uhuru and Ruto about the government's stake...they agreed but Washiali campaigned against the proposal until they went slow. They retain the share to date," he said at Sabatia market on Wednesday when he commissioned the Sabatia bus park."That is where by problem with Washiali began.&rdquo; The Governor said he also asked the government to allow the county to have two directors on the company's board but that Washiali also opposed this. But the MP denied the claims saying Oparanya should use the Sh200 million his government paid a private company to purchase shares in Mumias if he wants a stake. &ldquo;The Mumias share price is 85 cents in the stock exchange. Oparanya can buy more than the 20 per cent state shareholding using the Sh200 million. Mumias is a listed private company,&rdquo; he said on Wednesday.Washiali asked Oparanya to stop using Mumias woes to seek re-election when he did nothing to help revive it as a Governor. &ldquo;The Sh200 million he said he gave was handed to Mumias Distributors Limited, not Mumias Sugar Company. He should tell us what the money did,&rdquo; he said.But Oparanya said Washiali is responsible for the problems facing Mumias. He accused Washiali and top Jubilee leaders of turning the company into a cash cow for campaign money. &ldquo;They pretend to give money to Mumias but follow at night and demand the same for campaigns. When Uhuru and Ruto brought the first Sh1 billion to Mumias I told them that was a drop in the ocean as the company requires more than 12 billion to return to normalcy,&rdquo; he said.On June 1, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has accused Jubilee of forcing organisations to contribute money for campaigns which officially kicked off on May 28.He warned that the National Super Alliance was watching.More on this: Mudavadi claims Uhuru asking MDs, CEOs for campaign money, warns NASA is watching Washiali further accused Oparanya of licensing Butere's Shikunga weigh bridge, by rival Kibos Sugar Company in Nyanza, to facilitate cane poaching that has caused acute a shortage in supply to Mumias.In June 2016, Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale censured Oparanya over a cane buying centre set up by a Kisumu factory.Khalwale said Oparanya exhibited lack of concern for Mumias Sugar Company by allowing the establishment of the centre in Shikunga, Butere.Read: Khalwale attacks Oparanya over cane buyer set up by Mumias Sugar rival