Nearly half of Kenyans believe the country is not very democratic, a Sauti za Wanainchi opinion survey released on Thursday has found.The survey conducted by Twaweza East Africa indicates only one in every eight Kenyans (12 per cent) thinks democracy is being practiced to a large extent.Four in every 10 (40 per cent) believe it&rsquo;s only being practised to a small extent. Another 43 per cent have no idea what democracy is, one per cent know what it is but do not know if it is being practised while four per cent feel there is completely no democracy.Read: What is democracy and what is it for?Women (59 per cent) account for the largest number of people who don&rsquo;t know what democracy is compared to half as many men (27 per cent).The survey which was conducted on December 1-30 last year involved 1,714 respondents aged above 18 years.Majority of respondents (28 per cent) felt Opposition parties have had the biggest contribution to the development of democracy while 14 per cent gave credit to NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga.Civil society groups and non-governmental organisations ranked third with 12 per cent approval, media (10 per cent) and President Uhuru Kenyatta seven per cent. Other organisations had 13 per cent while 14 per cent said they don&rsquo;t know who has been championing for democracy. &ldquo;Going by these findings, government has reason to be concerned. Citizens will lose hope and give up if they are met with deaf ears or unresponsive authorities,&rdquo; John Mugo, Director of Data and Voice at Twaweza said.When Raila was named Opposition presidential candidate, he said he will be the Joshua who will deliver Kenyans from their hardships.He and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) will face Uhuru and DP William Ruto of Jubilee Party at the ballot.More on this: NASA's Joshua: Raila prays at Israel's Wailing Wall ahead of electionAlso read: Raila Odinga's speech on the importance of democracy in Africa, Kenya's experienceMOST TRUSTED INSTITUTIONSThe survey said one in every ten Kenyans (89 per cent) trust religious leaders while 88 per cent trust the media. Seven in ten (70 per cent) trust civil societies/NGOs while politicians enjoy only 35 per cent trust. However, individual political offices enjoy higher trust with governors leading at 53 per cent, MCAs (52 per cent) and senators (46 per cent). Trust in justice and constitutional institutions weighs as much as what is accorded to politicians, the study revealed. The Judiciary and courts had a 48 per cent rating while the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission had 51 per cent. &ldquo;If the perception, real or imagined, that there is no equality before the law continues, the trust in Kenya&rsquo;s constitution can only wane,&rdquo; Mugo said. One in every ten Kenyans, the survey revealed, think the government is doing &ldquo;very well&rdquo; in implementing the constitution while one in four (28 per cent) either do not know what the constitution is or they know but are not aware it is being implemented. Overall, almost half of Kenyans (48 per cent) believe the government is doing a good job implementing the constitution. One in every three Kenyans (63 per cent) agrees that there has been more development in their communities due to devolution. The notion is consistent across urban and rural areas. &ldquo;What we need is concerted efforst to address some of the more entrenched issues. The positive sentiments towards Kenyan governance among citizens will only be retained if citizen&rsquo;s expectations and hopes are met,&rdquo; Mugo said.Read: Why governors hold their annual devolution conferenceSUPPORT FOR WOMEN INCLUSION IN DEVELOPMENT AGENDASOver nine in 10 Kenyans support the two thirds gender rule with 94 per cent saying special seats should be reserved for women and people with disabilities in parliament and county assemblies.Some 35 per cent of respondents felt this will bring equality. Another 96 per cent support the establishment of a fund to help women overcome day-to-day challenges. According to the survey, 63 per cent of Kenyans feel more women are now interested in running for political seats than ever before.Another 54 per cent feel women political leaders have performed better than their male counterparts since 2013. On March 4, 2013, 16 women out of 300 who vied for various elective seats were elected as MPs and 82 as MCAs, out of 1,450 available positions. In April, the President asked National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale to make the two thirds gender rule a priority.Read more: Uhuru asks Duale to make two thirds gender rule top priorityParticipants in the survey were interviewed by phone. The research had a 95 per cent confidence level with a margin of error of +or-2.37.