Nurses&rsquo; union leaders are alarmed by the government&rsquo;s failure to communicate with them for four days now, yet they are still on strike.The Kenya National Union of Nurses&rsquo; deputy secretary general Maurice Opetu said the last communication they received was on Wednesday last week, inviting them to a meeting with Labour CS Phyllis Kandie the next day.&ldquo;The meeting did not take place because the CS never showed up and did not explain why. Up to now, no one has told us anything. We are just waiting and coordinating our strike,&rdquo; he said.KNUN has 26,000 members spread out mostly in government and mission hospitals across the country.&ldquo;We think the government is not serious. People are dying in hospitals and they are just quiet,&rdquo; he said.Opetu said the union was ready to negotiate to end the strike, but both the national and county governments have not showed commitment.However, Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok last week told the Star the counties have been asked to start disciplinary processes against nurses who have boycotted work.He said the strike was not protected by law because the union did not serve any of the 47 counties with the mandatory strike notice.&ldquo;That is our common position. The counties know best how to deal with their employees. So we have advised each county to discipline its workers according to the law,&rdquo; Nanok said.KNUN called the strike last Monday, demanding the registration of a Collective Bargaining Agreement it negotiated with the governors and the Ministry of Health.At least 16 people have been reported dead in hospitals since the strike began. Opetu confirmed nurses in different counties have started receiving sack threats. &ldquo;Our members are being intimidated and threatened. But we have told members to stay put. The strike is still on until the CBA is signed and deposited in court. They should not listen to anyone else apart from the union,&rdquo; Opetu told the Star.Earlier, the governors rejected the Sh40.4 billion CBA for nurses, and agreed with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission that it is unsustainable.On Tuesday, Nanok said the &ldquo;unacceptable&rdquo; proposal was made by the team the CoG appointed to negotiate with the nurses.&ldquo;We had agreed that whatever the negotiators came up with must be approved by the council and the SRC,&rdquo; he told journalists. The negotiations were led by Philip Kung&rsquo;u, the chairman of the Kiambu Public Service Board. &ldquo;The financial implication of the current draft CBA is Sh40.46 billion over a period of four years, which is around Sh10 billion per year, which is unsustainable,&rdquo; Nanok said.The Federation of Women Lawyers further gave the government an ultimatum to end the strike. Fida accused the government of crafting bogus CBAs to hoodwink Kenyans.It said, &ldquo;FIDA-Kenya takes specific issue with the rate at which the health sector CBAs are losing their value - increasingly becoming a public gimmicks meant to hoodwink Kenyans and a ploy to postpone problems.&rdquo;