The use of &ldquo;religious violence&rdquo; by NASA to campaign and its claim Jubilee has failed to protect Muslims is dangerous, Suleiman Shahbal has said. The Jubilee Party Mombasa governor candidate on Saturday said NASA is trying to portray Jubilee as a regimethat has eliminated more Muslims than any other in Kenyan history. Shahbal said religion and politics are delicate issues that can either build or destroy a nation. He said NASA should focus on development issues and stop raising emotions that threaten to divide the nation along religious lines. In some countries such as Nige-ria, he said, the religion and-politics agenda that was pushed by leaders resulted in Christian-Muslim strife. Today, the Boko Haram insurgency which aims to impose Sharia on thenorthern parts of the country perpetrates religious violence in Nigeria. Shahbal said he fears Kenya is headed in the same direction if NASA continues labelling Jubilee anti-Muslim. NASA principals reignited the debate on Friday at an Iftar dinner in Mombasa. Governor Hassan Joho said Jubilee failed to respect Muslims by allowing its officers to enter a mosque. He referred to an incident in 2014 when one man was killed when security forces raided Masjid Musa and Sakina mosques in Mombasa searching for weapons and radicalsupporters of al Shabaab. During the dinner, NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga said Jubilee has persecuted Muslims. He said Jubilee relies on extrajudicial killings. He repeats this frequently before Coast audiences and pledges to bring justice. But Shahbal said the Jubilee government has promoted many Muslim rights. &ldquo;In a Cabinet of 18, Jubilee has four Muslim members. I don&rsquo;t think for a second Jubilee has been unfair to this community,&rdquo; he said at Mombasa Women&rsquo;s Association hall. He said it is cheap politics to capitalise on religious sentiments during Ramadhan. He said this shows NASA&rsquo;s lack of agenda. Shahbal admitted extra- judicial killings have taken place,but Muslim were not the only victims. &ldquo;It has taken place against Mungiki, and various other groups,&rdquo; he said.