President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the choice at the August 8 election is between his team that has delivered on its pledges of investing in the Kenyan people and his rivals, who feed the nation on empty propaganda.Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto were on a campaign swing in the counties of Nyandarua, Laikipia and Nakuru.On Friday, they told residents to keep the faith in their team, which has already delivered on pledges to build a new railway and roads, and provided clean water, free maternity and credible exams.Uhuru said the visit to the three counties marked the start of his campaigns, but the tour came after a blitz in seven counties that ended on Wednesday, when he commissioned the &ldquo;Madaraka Express&rdquo; SGR, and a visit to Nyeri for Madaraka Day celebrations on Thursday.&ldquo;The choice is clear. They say they are 10-million strong. But we represent all Kenyans &mdash; 45-million strong. We want no Kenyan to be left behind in our journey of transformation and economic uplifting,&rdquo; Uhuru told thousands of Nyahururu residents.&ldquo;My team puts Kenya first. It has delivered on its promises to invest heavily to improve the lives of every Kenyan. It is against people heavy on rhetoric and propaganda but empty on action.&rdquo;On Wednesday, the President rode in the &ldquo;Madaraka Express&rdquo; from Mombasa to Nairobi, fulfilling one of his administration&rsquo;s key promises.On Friday, Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi said his ministry had delivered 2.8 million title deeds and the pledge of three million would be met within weeks to come.The campaign swing took the President and Ruto to Ol Kalou, Jua Kali, Oljororok, Kasuku and Nyahururu. They were due to make another half-a-dozen stops to Subukia, Bahati and eventually Nakuru.The Deputy President shared Uhuru&rsquo;s sentiments, warning residents to avoid gambling with their votes when decision time comes in August.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t gamble with your future &mdash; Kenya&rsquo;s future. Keep your faith in Uhuru. He is already delivering on improving your lives,&rdquo; Ruto said in Nyahururu.He pointed to tripling of electricity connections to nearly 60,000 households countywide.He lambasted the opposition as &ldquo;critics without an agenda&rdquo;, saying theirs is a daily grind of complaints and criticism for criticism&rsquo;s sake.&ldquo;When we invest in the rail, they say it is expensive. When we expand electricity access they say we are bringing power to poor people, when we invest in roads they say we are taking loans. They don&rsquo;t see the progress we are making as a country,&rdquo; Ruto said.Uhuru said his administration has proved its ability to uplift Kenyans&rsquo; lives in its first term in office, adding it has laid a strong foundation for the country&rsquo;s growth and deserves another five years to boost development and expand prosperity.He cited roads constructed countrywide, modern medical equipment to two hospitals in every county, expansion of electricity connection to households and free maternity as some of the initiatives undertaken by his administration to improve the lives of wananchi.Uhuru also mentioned the scrapping of exam fees in schools.