THE Jubilee government must understand we have freedom of expression and freedom of speech. It is our right to express ourselves and it is well anchored in the Constitution.Jubilee must differentiate between hate speech and the truth. Facts and reality do not change. As political leaders, we must highlight issues that affect Kenyans. Some issues are very pertinent and must be given priority. We cannot overlook them but highlight and address them.When you tell the truth the Jubilee government claim you have committed hate speech. However, it is not about hate speech &ndash; they just want to blackmail a good leader.It is not NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga alone being targetted by the Jubilee administration, they want to blackmail everyone in the opposition. They want to demean us.JP want to bring up issues to divert your focus when they realise you are growing politically and have good goals. They want to silence you and kill your political ambitions. But, as a country, we must be focussed to address the issues that affect Kenyans. I am just wondering if politicians are being stopped from speaking, what about other Kenyans who have no platform to express themselves! They want to stop the opposition from telling the truth, because it hurts them. When you tell the truth they fear Kenyans will become brighter and wiser and turn against the government injustices. They know that when Kenyans know the truth they will make sober decisions. One of these decisions is sending this government home. It has failed in all aspects. They don&rsquo;t want Kenyans to tell the truth so that they can stay in power after 2017. I am just wondering if leaders cannot tell the truth, who will tell Kenyans the truth! Who will talk about the Jubilee government oppression! When you tell the truth, you mess with someone who committed injustices on Kenyans. When you tell the truth, it is clear that you are hurting someone who is stealing. We call on the government to respect our rights and the foundation of our nation.Kenyans want a free, fair, credible and peaceful election. In fact, Kenyans want the most peaceful election in the country&rsquo;s history.But Jubilee has failed and that is why they are everywhere with their propaganda.Kenyans are increasingly well informed and will make a sober decision on Election Day August 8.Mboko is the Mombasa Woman rep