Kenyan giants AFC Leopards SC became the first team to book their ticket to the inaugural SportPesa Super Cup semi-finals yesterday when they edged Singida United from Tanzania 5-4 on post-match penalties at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar-es-Salaam.The first blood of the eight-team knockout tournament dubbed &lsquo;Tanzania vs Kenya&rsquo; was drawn by the visitors when Ghanian forward Gilbert Fiamenyo kept his nerve to drill home the winning spot kick after Salim Chuku missed the third for Singida following a 1-1 stalemate in regulation time.There was little to separate the sides at the end of the 90 minutes.However, it was Singida, who were recently promoted to the Tanzania Main Land Premier League, who settled in the match faster, taking the lead in the 10th minute when Kutinyu Tafadzwa fired in a header from a corner.Vincent Oburu hauled the 12-time Kenyan champions level in the 68th and neither sides could fashion a winner and the match was forced into penalties in accordance to tournament rules.The result meant that Singida went home as the first losing quarter-finalist with USD2,500 while Leopards are still in the hunt for the glittering Super Cup trophy, USD30,000 winners&rsquo; prize and the chance to play English Premier League side, Everton FC.Tanzanian assistant head coach, Dennis Kitambi who took charge of Leopards as the club awaits to confirm Romanian Dorian Marin as their new boss, was relieved that the pre-match favourites managed to cross the finish line in the end.&ldquo;We are happy because we won though we were supposed to kill the game during the 90 minutes. We have to improve on our finishing and defend set pieces more carefully because that is where our weaknesses are.&ldquo;We had a very good game because we created many chances. We were unlucky to concede a goal but I am very happy because we recovered. You can&rsquo;t tell who is going to win during the penalty shoot-out but we are all happy because we have qualified for the semis,&rdquo; Kitambi said after the match.Singida Dutch Head Coach Hans van der Pluijm blamed the outcome on fatigue. &ldquo;The players were very tired. I&rsquo;m not happy when I lose because we have done everything. We had only a week to bring the boys together and that is not enough.&ldquo;We wanted to win this match and we could have scored many goals but that is football,&rdquo; van der Pluijm who led Dar Young Africans SC to two Tanzanian Premier League titles rued.Meanwhile, Kenya Premier League champions Tusker were bundled out of the Super Cup after succumbing to Tanzania&rsquo;s Yanga 4-2 after a barren draw during regulation time. AFC therefore face Yanga in the first semi-final match on Thursday. Tusker&rsquo;s Stephen Ousu and Clifford missed their spot kicks to send Tusker on an early flight back home. Allan Wanga was a constant menace for Yanga defence but he couldn&rsquo;t find a way past the hosts defence. Today, Nakuru All Stars take on Simba of Tanzania before paving the way for 15-time Kenya Premier League champions Gor Mahia to confront Jang&rsquo;ombe of Zanzibar.