For the last two months, Uasin Gishu county has been hogging the headlines for the wrong reasons, thanks to some hydra-headed politicians, who have nothing between their ears but acres of hate and ignorance.Uasin Gishu is a melting pot of cultures: All the country&rsquo;s diversity converges here, depicting a beautiful rainbow of a people working towards a better Kenya.But it is unfortunate that Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago wants all this to go downhill by his careless talk. He has issued veiled threats on the repercussions of not reelecting him on August 8.It is clear we are dealing with a leader who thrives on intimidating others through the poisoned chalice of tribal politics.The chaos that rocked the country during the 2007 bangled General Election had its roots in this county.The bottom line is that Mandago should show magnanimity, by acknowledging the undeniable fact that this wonderful county belongs to all communities irrespective of their political and ethnic persuasion.His incessant threats against his challenger Bundotich Zedekiah Kprop, popularly known as Buzeki and his supporters must not go unchallenged.His leadership since 2013 has been nothing but shambolic and bereft of any tangible development. The electorate has been taking him to task over his lackluster development record.Mandago&rsquo;s leadership foundation is built on nothing but sinking sand. This is why he has always retreated to his tribal cocoon for recharge to create a charade of a stronghold. Why attack your opponents if indeed you are &ldquo;unbowgable&rdquo;?The notion that Uasin Gishu belongs to the Nandi is the joke of the year. How did Mandago and his henchmen arrive at this misleading conclusion? Of course, their demented minds are playing tricks with them. They are showing them things they want to believe in so that they can sit in a make-believe world of tribal fiefdoms that assures that slippery comfort of victory in August.I don&rsquo;t hold brief for Buzeki but like other peace-loving Kenyans, I would like to see leaders that are a fulcrum of unity not divisions.Mandago is not new to resorting to war songs whenever he feels his leadership is threatened. Last year, when Professor Laban Ayiro was appointed the acting Vice Chancellor of Moi University, the governor sent shockwaves throughout the country when he led a group of local leaders and residents in storming the institution, protesting the appointment of &ldquo;an outsider&rdquo; to head a &ldquo;Kalenjin institution&rdquo;!Well, the tribal chief has reared his ugly head again. This time round, he is warning &ldquo;an outsider community&rdquo; against voting for Buzeki on August 8. Mandago has fired a warning shot to Jubilee that it should not count on the Nandi vote if this community (read Kikuyu) continues to support Buzeki&rsquo;s candidacy.The governor emphasises that Buzeki is a Keiyo and, therefore, he should not be vying for governor in a Nandi dominant region.Uasin Gishu belongs to all Kenyans. Whipping up ethnic emotions will not change the fact that the people want change from Mandago&rsquo;s inept administration. The small-minded governor should divorce himself from tribal bullcrap and face his opponents head on.He is sensing defeat and is appealing to Jubilee to prevail upon Buzeki to drop his bid, and support him in the same manner in which Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua dropped his to support Lee Kinyanjui.If indeed Mandago is as popular as he wants the voters to believe, why does he resort to jungle law? Why is he always calling upon the Nandi to protect him?Images of young men holding Mandago&rsquo;s campaign posters as they engage in a wry chant of war songs on the streets of Eldoret on April 23 are still fresh in the minds of many. Kalenjin elders have for the umpteenth time condemned Mandago and his two sidekicks &mdash; Nandi MP Alfred Keter and his Kapseret counterpart Oscar Sudi &mdash; for their divisive actions.The elders want the toothless National Cohesion and Integration Commission to rein in on the politicians for playing with the lives of the residents. But the permanently clueless NCIC chairman Francis Kaparo is yet to hear these pleas. He is in Jupiter or Mars playing Star Wars games with his commissioners as Uasin Gishu walks into the 2007-like scenario.Against this backdrop, Buzeki should never think of getting scared by Mandago&rsquo;s threats. His Keiyo background does not make him less of a Kenyan.