I think both sides of the political divide are being insincere because the connection between corruption and our politics is extremely stronger.This is not something that we can say one side has benefitted and not the other. Perhaps the only reason NASA would speak the way they are speaking is because they are not in government.It has been observed for many years that we have had corruption scandals in every electioneering period. All the major scandals you see in this country are related to the election. That cannot change until we deal with the way we finance our elections.Parliament in its wisdom suspended the implementation of the Campaign Financing Act and its regulations. So, in this election, nobody is going to be asked questions about where they get their money to campaign. This is a tragedy in this country.We are going to see again people who have interests in accessing government procurement opportunities coming in and trying to influence whichever side they think is going to win the election.The law limiting campaign financing exists, but it is suspended and it is not going to be applicable in this election. As a result, it is very unlikely that the IEBC will do anything around the issue of campaign financing. This means that anyone who wants to use money to influence our politics is free to do so in this election.As a matter of fact, politicians from both sides of the political divide should table lists of their financiers in the interests of accountability to the electorate, but they will not do it because our systems enforcing that are quite week. We will be waiting, of course, to see how many of those political parties will publish their audit reports and how deep the reports will be, as well as the fullness of their disclosure to the public.To be honest, it is difficult for any political party to say that they are clean. For them to do that, then they need to table lists of all those people who have contributed money to their campaigns and demonstrate to us that those are people who are not engaged in corruption or any other criminal activities.Without that, then it is clear that our politics are driven by corruption and corruption is driven by politics. Kimeu is the Executive Director Transparency International, Kenya