If ever AFC Leopards Romanian coach Dorin Marin underestimated the depth in which the club had sank, the 3-0 mauling they suffered in the final of the Sportesa Super Cup in Dar es Salaam six days ago left him under no illusion about the enormity of the task handed to him.Today, he takes charge of his first match in the domestic scene when Leopards host surprise tail-enders Mathare United as the SportPesa Premier League resumes after a two week international break.Leopards&rsquo; problems in all departments have been plain for all to see. The club has struggled to score while their defence has not worked as a unit, exposing their goalkeeper at every turn. Robinson Kamura and Whyvonne Isuza, two players brought from Mathare to rejuvenate the Ingwe squad, have not lived up to expectation. Maybe facing their former employer this afternoon would be the best opportunity to show why the club went out of their way to take up their services.Pundits were confounded when Mathare handed coach Francis Kimanzi a new deal when the club was rock bottom in the league and facing a fight for their survival in the top-flight league. Now, after the vote of confidence from club owner and founder Bob Munro, Kimanzi - one of the founding players of the club - must show that he has what it takes to drag Mathare from the position where he has put them.He will have to do that without several key players, who continue to ditch the club. Left-back David Mwangi and striker Ronald Okoth were the latest to leave the Slum Boys and in their place, players untested at the highest level have come in.Whether they will be good enough to take Mathare out of the mire, many will be waiting to see. Also today in-form champions Tusker will seek to claim top place with at least a point when the pay a visit to high-flying debutantes Kariobangi Sharks. George Nsiimbe&rsquo;s brewers have strung together a run of victories that has rendered their torrid start to the campaign a distant memory. Now the brewers, having weathered the early season storm, must continue on the same path as they seek their eleventh national crown. Sharks though will be no pushovers. William Muluya&rsquo;s men too have found their footing after a topsy-turvy start to their maiden top-flight campaign. The other match today will see Chemelil Sugar entertain Nzoia United. Tomorrow, Gor Mahia will begin life without coach Ze Maria, who resigned abruptly on Thursday morning, leaving his assistant Zedekiah Otieno to take charge of the club starting with a tough match against Sofapaka.