It was the week that NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga&rsquo;s former prime ministerial aide Salim Lone stood by his side again and the former Prime Minister accused the Armed Forces and police of being dragooned into an election-rigging plot.No evidence whatever was forthcoming and Raila has a relationship with the military that is not exactly a happy one. The return of Lone to Team Raila was quietly reported as not involving heading up anything, only a generalised communications and strategy consultancy. However, alone among Raila&rsquo;s senior-most strategists, Lone has spoken and written longest and most vehemently on the frightening subject of what could go wrong if the August 8 Presidential election is not done right. The timing of Lone&rsquo;s return and Raila&rsquo;s accusation against the national security edifice, including the military, to the effect that they are plotting to prevent him from becoming President and Commander-in-Chief Lone is intriguing. Writing &ldquo;a note of caution&rdquo;, a 450-word piece, addressed to President Barack Obama in the Weekend Star&rsquo;s Siasa pullout on the day the latter landed in Kenya in July 2015, Lone warned ominously, &ldquo;Another flawed election will doom democracy and stability in Kenya, and spell trouble for the rest of the world&rdquo;. This is how the Star reported the latest ratcheting up of tensions this week by Raila on Wednesday June21, 2017, under the headline &ldquo;Uhuru preparing the military to rig the election, claims Raila&rdquo;: &ldquo;NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta is preparing to use the military to rig the August election to retain power.But the Office of the President has denied the allegations. The opposition chief claimed that Uhuru had enlisted the services of the armed forces and the National Intelligence Service to craft a winning strategy. Raila named Army Commander Robert Kibochi, Kenya Air Force Commander Major General Samuel Thuita, National Defence College boss Lt Gen Leonard Ngondi, Director of DCI Ndegwa Muhoro and Director General of National Intelligence Service Philip Kameru as being behind the vote-rigging plot. He also alleged an ongoing &lsquo;suspicious&rsquo; military training at the Embakasi Military Barracks, involving KDF officers, APs, county commanders and regional commanders. Raila was accompanied by NASA co-principal and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi during the media briefing at his Capitol Hill office in Nairobi.&rdquo; &lsquo;WAR AND PEACE IN KENYA&rsquo; Lone&rsquo;s entry in Wikipedia includes a paragraph on a book he has been writing on Kenya for about four years now, and which is still a work in progress, it is entitled War and Peace in Kenya: &ldquo;Lone now lives in Princeton, New Jersey, where he is writing his book &mdash; War and Peace in Kenya &mdash; on the extraordinary transformations and disasters that marked the Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga era in the 2003-2013 period (and the subsequent Uhuru Kenyatta presidency). The book also examines how change takes place in a country in which fabulous wealth and utter deprivation exist side and side, and where a powerful elite has controlled all the levers of power and wealth throughout the half century of independence. The book pays particular attention to the role, both positive and negative, the international community played in this period, especially in the crimes against humanity trials of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. The book is supported by grants from the Ford Foundation, the Open Society Institute, the Institute of International Education and the Norwegian government.&rdquo;From the way things are being stage-managed by Raila at serial press conferences and campaign rallies and in the courts, the remaining part of Lone&rsquo;s book should make for extremely interesting reading. Lone has a distinguished CV working as a communications specialist for the United Nations, including in conflict situations such as the Iraq war. He rose to the UN&rsquo;s highest non-political rank when Secretary General Kofi Annan appointed him Director of News and Media, a position he served in from 1998-2003. According to Wikipedia, &ldquo;Lone&rsquo;s last UN assignment was as UN Spokesman in Iraq right after the 2003 US-led invasion. His boss Sergio Vieira de Mello and 21 other colleagues in Baghdad were killed in a terrorist attack on Canal Hotel in August, but Lone survived with minor injuries&rdquo;. NO EVIDENCE AS RAILA TAKES ON SECURITY CHIEFSRaila tables no evidence whatever for his grave accusations against the military and police chiefs, shaming the country&rsquo;s top security officers by name and designation and accusing them of involvement in real-time in a gargantuan electoral offence. Wild allegations do not come any wilder than this. What the man who fully expects to become the next and Fifth President of Kenya is doing is not engaging in a polite conversation; he is taking the national discourse to the level of a street fight. No niceties are being observed. Raila&rsquo;s serial gross libels are breaking all the rules of civilised discourse.This month alone he has accused the Dubai-based Al Ghurair printing firm of being complicit in an alleged Presidential election-rigging plot that he claims started four years ago. His relentless accusations against President Uhuru Kenyatta as having stolen his &ldquo;victory&rdquo; at the March 4 2013 General Election long ago lost their bad loser flavour and acquired an up-close-and-personal malevolence that can only spell the great possibility of trouble. What communications consultant Lone is saying (and was saying as long ago as the Obama visit to Kenya) is also unmistakable &mdash; either Raila wins on August 8 or Kenya burns. No electoral event should be prefaced by this kind of posturing, accusation and intimidation and preparing for the worst. Raila has a mesmeric hold on his political base, for whom his every word is special and true, even his wildest statement. Turning at least half the country against the national security edifice as if his contentions were as clear-cut, as Black and White, as the struggle against British colonialism was in Kenya in the 1950s or in the struggle against apartheid in South Africa in the 1970s and 80s, is not sowing the seeds of peace. Raila is setting the stage for conflict if he does not take the Presidency in August. DRIVING AGGRESSION DYNAMICS No one drives aggression dynamics in Kenyan politics the way Raila does. Indeed, he has made a career of it and has a CV that includes self-confessed coup-maker in the August 1 1982 attempted putsch by elements of the Kenya Air Force. He confessed he had a role in August 1 to two consecutive writers of two biographies &ndash; the Nigerian academic Babafemi A. Badejo in Raila Odinga: An Enigma in Kenyan Politics, published in 2006, and in veteran editor Sarah Elderkin&rsquo;s The Flame of Freedom (2011). There are aggression dynamics in all democratic Presidential contests, and the race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the US last year was full of them, including in the televised debates. However, given Raila&rsquo;s current levels of aggressiveness, his dismissal of entire Kenyan institutions and those who now man them on Jubilee&rsquo;s watch, including the Defence Forces, it is hard to see even the Presidential Debates scheduled for next month, going smoothly. There will be moments of drama.