The journey to Mombasa from Nairobi was to begin on Monday at 2pm. Considering the crazy traffic in the capital city, I set out to the Standard Gauge Railway Nairobi Terminus at 1pm. The terminus, in Syokimau, is modernised, nothing like the Nairobi railway station.It&rsquo;s even better than the original Syokimau railway station. The terminus can only be equated to an airport.From the entrance of the terminus, smartly dressed women line the way. They wear black dresses with red and luminous green stripes on the left shoulder, yellow ties and red peaked hats. &ldquo;Welcome to Nairobi Terminus, kindly take the stairs to the boarding area,&rdquo; one told me with a big smile.The male stewards are clad in navy blue suits, white shirts and coloured ties of green, red and black. They help in placing the luggage.Inside the train, stewards and stewardesses guide passengers to their seats, instructing them not to move.In the economy class, the blue seats are well organised in a &lsquo;face me&rsquo; sort of arrangement. Three seats on one side and two on the other, with a table top on each.The spacious leg room allows comfort for the passengers. The blue floor is neat. Stewardesses walk through every few minutes to collect any litter. Food provision in this section &ldquo;will come with time&rdquo;, we were told. Just below the luggage storage are hooks where one can hang their jackets. The big window spaces are covered with sky blue curtains.The first class couches are different. They are maroon and more comfortable. Each on its own with an arm rest. They are also adjustable. Here, snacks and water are served.Economy class has 118 seats in each couch, and first class has between 70 and 77 seats.On this particular train, there are two toilets and two wash basins. There is air conditioning in all the couches, and the wash basins have hot water taps.In each couch, an LCD screen shows the date, time, carriage, number, speed and temperature outside. It also displays messages asking passengers to help keep the train litter-free. The dining car is set up in a whole couch but is not yet in operation.There is also what the stewardesses call &lsquo;sleeper couches&rsquo;. In the sleepers are two decker beds one can nap in for an extra fee.While the first class fare is Sh3,200, those in economy class are charged Sh700.The old trains, which I had the privilege to travel in, are empty shells compared to this. At exactly 2pm, doors are locked and the engine starts. It&rsquo;s a smooth ride, which seemed slow but a speed check app recorded a speed of between 116km/hr and 120km/hr.Views of vast green land with hills on the horizon makes the trip more enjoyable. Cutting through the Tsavo National Parks, elephants and other wild animals could be seen roaming. As we stood to take pictures of the beautiful views, the stewardesses were all over, asking us to remain seated.Our first stopover was at Mtito Andei, an equally modern terminus.Nothing much happens here. In less than 20 minutes, an announcement is made asking us back to the train, followed with a thank you note.The second and the last stopover was at Mariakani.A few minutes to 7pm, we arrived at the Mombasa terminus.It is massive. The stewardesses who travelled with us stood on the exit, directing us out and thanking us for travelling with them. Just outside the train, young women dressed in blue and red stood in line, waiting to welcome us to Mombasa terminus.The terminus is in Miritini, some 11km from Mombasa town. This is how our trouble began. The bus meant to take us to town had not arrived by the time we checked out, and we had to wait for more than one and a half hours.The organisers of the SGR launch did a poor job. During the launch of the cargo train on Tuesday, the media was taken to the venue at 2pm but the President arrived at 5pm.Wednesday, which was the day to launch the passenger train, turned out to be the worst. We were to find our way to the Mombasa railway office at 6.30am, from where we would be taken to the Mombasa terminus for the function.The confusion at that terminus is something I have never come across.Instructions were coming from different authorities, and we didn&rsquo;t know whose to follow. Too much back and forth. Total communication breakdown.We ended up boarding a different train with the President, which was an express to Nairobi.The delay and mix-up marred an otherwise exciting experience that marks a major milestone in the transport industry.