Jubilee’s Mombasa governor candidate Suleiman Shahbal and his running mate Anania Mwaboza have promised to build a free port to create jobs for the youth. Shahbal on Tuesday said the investment will create 50,000 jobs annually. He spoke in Victoria Church, Mbungoni, Frere Town ward, where he noted that a free port will easily attract other investors, hence improve the county’s economy. Shahbal said he will build the port   within the first 18 months of taking office — if he wins on August 8 — and lay the foundation stone within the first two months. “On August 9, we will lay the foundation stone for the free port. The chief guest will be President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. The two have launched Team Shaboza, which, they say, will campaign vigorously to ensure their victory. Mombasa has an unemployment rate of 44 per cent. This is double the national average of 21 per cent. “We must think outside the box if we are to solve unemployment in Mombasa. A free port can’t wait any longer,” Shahbal said. This comes amid debate over the creation of a dry port in Naivasha and Voi, with Governor Hassan Joho opposing the Naivasha dry port. The incumbent has on several occasions said it is part of a wider scheme by the national government to disfranchise Coast residents. However, top government officials have dismissed the claim. On Tuesday, Shahbal and Mwaboza undertook a door-to-door campaign, in what appeared to be a change of tack from their lacklustre approach. Mwaboza told residents to be peaceful. They came face-to-face with the disturbing reality on the ground — high levels of joblessness and rampant drug abuse. “You have to help us help you,” Shahbal told some of the zombielike youths at the Bakarani Stage. “For an efficient government to handle your problems, there needs to be an efficient governor. You have not been helped for the last four years. Try change. Support us.” Earlier, Shahbal issued a stern warning to drug barons and peddlers, whom he blamed for the rampant drug abuse in the neighbourhoods. “I put on notice all drug peddlers on the streets. Either you stop this illegal trade or you leave Mombasa. August 8 should be your last day here,” he said, adding that he will put in place measures to intensify the war on drug abuse. “We must protect our youth. This is the time.”