ODM faces an arduous task in winning parliamentary seats in Kisii and Nyamira counties.All legislators, who were elected on the ODM ticket in the last General Election, have defected to Jubilee.Manson Nyamweya has also ditched the Orange party and will contest for governor on the KNC ticket.Those who defected to Jubilee include Senator Chris Obure and Simon Ogari of Bomachoge Borabu. Obure is running for governor on the JP ticket.Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka will defend his seat on the Ford Kenya ticket, while woman representative Mary Otara will run as an independent candidate, having lost in the JP nominations to journalist Dorice Donya.According to political pundits, the defections were a blow to ODM in Kisii county and newcomers who will contest on the party&rsquo;s ticket face a herculean task. &ldquo;ODM won the majority of the seats in Kisii in the last election and I don&rsquo;t see it happening this time round. This is because some of the candidates are very weak,&rdquo; Edward Begi, a Kisii-based advocate and political analyst, said on Monday.He said ODM has a chance to clinch the Kitutu Chache North seat through Nairobi-based advocate Migos Ogamba. &ldquo;The battle for the seat is a two-horse race between Ogamba and incumbent Jimmy Angwenyi. It, however, depends on how Ogamba plays his cards,&rdquo; Begi said. He said that J B Momanyi (Bonchari), Samuel Omwando (Kitutu Chache South), Chris Bichage (Nyaribari Chache) and Jeremiah Matoke (Bomachoge Borabu) also stand a chance of clinching the seats.Begi said the only ODM parliamentary candidates assured of winning are Charles Geni (North Mugirango), Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Okong&rsquo;o O&rsquo;Mogeni (Nyamira senator) and Sam Ongeri (Kisii senator). He said, however, that NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga will get up to 80 per cent of the vote in the region.University lecturer and political analyst David Omato said, &ldquo;ODM has a very big problem in the two counties this time. The move by NASA affiliate parties to field candidates will cost them seats and give Jubilee and other small parties a chance.&rdquo;Most aspirants defected from ODM to NASA affiliates, following fears of a shambolic nomination process.Speaking on the phone, Omato said Jubilee is likely to clinch the two woman representative posts in the two counties. Contestants are former radio broadcaster Dorice Donya (Kisii) and Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira).