Chilli conjures up images of the wild west and cowboys roaming the newly discovered American plains. Bricks of dried beef, fat, spices and pepper were packed up for the trail and reconstituted over a campfire. What started as a way to turn tough, tired and often tasteless ingredients into a delicious meal slowly wormed its way into the hearts of many. Today there are many variations, fiercely protected and loved by the different regions that claim them. There is even a World Champion Chilli cook-off every year!.The &ldquo;original&rdquo; or best chilli is a hotly contested topic by chilli lovers everywhere, but this recipe is one of the most popular &ndash; with a few of my own alterations. Simple to make and reheat for future meals, I&rsquo;m sure it will earn a special place in your heart, too.IngredientsTbsp Olive oil2 Large red onionsChopped jalape&ntilde;o chillies8 garlic cloves1.3kg of ground beef (small cubes also work)5 Tbsp chilli powder2 Tbsp ground cumin1 Tbsp paprika1 Tbsp garlic powder1 Tbsp dried chilli flakes1 Tbsp cayenne pepperSalt and pepper1 can diced tomato in juice1 can kidney beans drained250ml Beef brothChopped spring onionsFresh ParsleyGrated cheese MethodIn a large cooking pot, heat the oil over a medium heat, then saut&eacute; the chopped red onions for about five minutes, until soft and starting to brown. Then add the garlic cloves and jalape&ntilde;o and saut&eacute; for a further one minute.Add the beef to the pot and brown, making sure you separate the pieces to get an even brown on all the pieces. Add the chilli powders, ground cumin, paprika, cayenne and garlic powder to the pot and mix well, then add the beans.Add the tomatoes with their juice and the beef broth, mix then cover the pot and let it cook on a low/medium heat for at least 45 minutes. If you are using cubed pieces of beef rather than ground, cook for longer, until the beef is tender and falls apart easily. Add a pinch of salt and black pepper.Serve with white rice or on its own, topped with chopped green onion, fresh parsley and grated cheese.