It's break time at Mathari Primary School but Metrin Temunai sits, watching in envy as other pupils play.Her health is so poor that she cannot engage in any activity. "I am always in pain. My stomach, chest and back are always in pain and I am always leaking fluid from my vagina," the 17-year-old said.ORPHANED, DISPLACEDFor her age, the class eight pupil's body is much smaller, despite being the oldest in the school. At such a tender age, the girl has had a fair share of misfortunes.Metrin lost her parents at the height of the 2007-08 post election violence. They lived in Mt Elgon, where from 2006-08, a self-styled militia, the Sabot Land Defence Forces (SLDF), carried out an insurgency to 'correct' what its leaders said were injustices committed during land distribution.At only 12, with the help of her ageing grandmother, the first born in a family of six was left to cater for her other siblings. "Just before the elections in 2007, my mum got sick and died," she remembers. Her father's mysterious disappearance is what hurts her the most to date. "My dad was a carpenter and one day he left for work and never returned."She said the Sabot militia abducted and killed their breadwinner without even giving them his body to bury. "It's too painful. I wish they dumped his body and let us find it for burial," Metrin said, adding that the militias were so evil that they feasted on human flesh.As if that was not enough, the post-election clashes which took over the area after the elections led to the burning of their house as they watched from a distance. "When we heard the enemy was coming, I carried the youngest baby on my back and asked the others to hold each other's hands and follow me."The six children and their grandmother ended up in the forest, where they stayed for two weeks. "They were the longest two weeks of my life. Being the firstborn, I had to take charge of the others."They fed on wild fruits and leaves and slept in the cold until one day, the police officers patrolling the forest found them. "We were taken to an IDP camp, where we stayed until October 2008, when an aunt who lived in Nairobi came looking for us," she said.She carried them to Nairobi's Mathare slum where, after close to a year out of school, Metrin and her siblings were enrolled back. Her aunt had eight children, making their two roomed house in Kosovo congested. "We have had to survive in that state."HEALTH PROBLEMS BEGINSoon after settling in, her health took a turn for the worse after she developed kidney problems.She became a hospital guest and in 2011, she was diagnosed with Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD), a kidney disorder that leads to the formation of fluid-filled cysts in the kidneys. PKD is among the leading causes of kidney failure and may also lead to liver complications. The disease impairs kidney functions and eventually causes kidney failure.For the longest time, Metrin has had to make wearing pads a part of her life. She has been leaking fluids and forced to be in a pad all through or she wets her clothes. "It's been depressing. There was a time I leaked blood for more than a month," she says.At some point she joined some training from an NGO on how to make pads and that is what she has been using. "The school only provides one packet every month, which is not enough for me," she said.To make things worse, Metrin was raped in 2013 and she became pregnant. "In slums people interact freely and there was this neighbour of ours who one evening sent me to the shop and on returning to drop what he had sent me, he locked me inside his house where he raped me," Metrin remembers.For fear of being rejected, she never shared the ordeal with anyone until two months later, when she started noticing changes in her body. "Because i frequented the hospital, I had created a rapport with a certain doctor, whom I approached and shared my issue with. He recommended I take a pregnancy test, which turned out positive," she said.Stress and confusion took over the then 13-year-old. Because she could not get the courage to break the news to her aunt, they agreed with the doctor that she goes home and convince her to visit the clinic with her the following day."It's the doctor who told her what I had gone through and that I was expectant," she remembers.They then reported the incident to the police, who told them they took too long to do it and they wouldn't do anything until the baby was born. "As fate would have it, the perpetrator ran away from the area before I gave birth, never to be seen again," she said.STIGMA AT SCHOOLFor three years, Metrin stayed with her baby until one day, the Mathari Primary School teachers visited her and convicted her aunt to stay with the baby and have Metrin back to school, a request she agreed to. "I came back here last year and was enrolled in class seven."Metrin says life has been tough as other pupils stigmatised her. Her siblings, who are all younger than her, have progressed and are in higher classes. "The stigma has been too much. But being the oldest in the whole school, I had to remain strong and deal with it."She says she stopped feeling guilty for being a teen mum since it was not her wish to get raped. "When I get negative comments from the pupils, especially girls, I sit them down and explain to them how I got myself where I am. I warn them to never fall for the tricks I fell for," she says.Amidst all the frustrations, Metrin says her teachers have been of great help. In January, her kidney condition got worse and even walking became a problem. The teachers pulled together and contributed some money, which was used to take her to KNH, where she had been referred from Kiambu Hospital.Senior teacher Gladys Kamande has been mobilising funds and even accompanying her for the checks. "This girl is a candidate and I am really concerned about her health. She has had so much already and I wish she will be settled for good in the near future," Kamande said.Doctors at KNH have recommended a kidney transplant but since Metrin doesn't have a donor, they said "I am supposed to start dialysis, but we don't have the finances".She, therefore, has to endure the pains and the shame of wetting herself, as she waits hopefully for a miracle to happen.Her teachers are hopeful that Metrin will pass her KCPE and proceed to being a doctor, which is her dream career. "I have been sick for way too long and i hope one day I will bring hope to a sick child," she concluded.