President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday asked retailers to stop forcing consumers to buy other goods when they go for unga."...hiyo mahindi itakuwa ya kutosha na tunawaambia wateja wetu ya kuwa mkipata hiyo unga, msiwalazimishe wakenya wanunue vitu vingine," Uhuru said.(When maize comes, it will be enough for everybody. Retailers should not force consumers to buy other goods in order for them to get the flour)He gave the orders during a rally at Malinya, Kakamega county on Saturday. The president was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto and other leaders.Uhuru said Kenyans had a right to buy the flour and that forcing them was infringing on their rights.Read: Uhuru heads to Kakamega on vote-hunting mission as August 8 draws near"Mahindi ikifika tutakuwa na unga ya kutosha. Wenye maduka msikaziee wanainchi maisha," he added.(When maize arrives, we will have enough Flour. Retailers, do not make life hard for consumers)Uhuru further asked the residents to vote for Jubilee Party in the August 8 polls."Wengine wanakuja wanawaimbia ngoma. Wanapigana na nani?... Wakileta fujo tutawanyorosha. Sisi hatukuji na matusi tunakuja na mema," he said.(Some come here to sing for you...who are they fighting? If they bring chaos, we will deal with them. We are not coming with insults) Flour is a rare commodity in supermarkets. The crisis, which has lasted for some months, has seen the commodity retail at Sh150 for a 2kg pack.But the government introduced branded GoK maize flour retailing at Sh90. Many Kenyans have complained that they cant access the flour.In most supermarkets, buyers are only allowed to take two packets while other retailers compel consumers to buy the flour with other goods.In many instances, the subsidised flour is available for less than an hour before they are all bought out.More on this: State introduces GOK branded unga, 2kg pack to retail at Sh90The shortage of subsidised flour has become a major campaign issue as the opposition piles pressure on state officials to explain the shortage.Read:Unga fury greets Uhuru, Ruto during Kilifi tourAlso read: Cops arrest four found repackaging subsidised unga in Bungoma church