For decades, the United States and Russia consistently tried to outdo each other in attempts to be the sole superpower. But following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the US emerged as the superpower, until the rise of China showed up, and now we really can&rsquo;t speak of the US as the unipolar superpower, especially in light of the election of Donald Trump as President.The waning of US supremacy on the global stage is not by accident. Rather, it&rsquo;s with the invinsible, and, in some cases, overt, hand of the Kremlin, led by the ever-conniving President Vladmir Putin. So much so, it&rsquo;s alleged, and now under investigation, that Russia influenced the outcome of the November 8 presidential election in the US. While Russia was busy meddling in US elections, [if the allegations are true] then candidate Trump was busy egging them on, in what is now being investigated as illegal collusion that if proven, could lead to his impeachment and removal from power.To be sure, the Russians tried but were unable to hack into the electoral system, even as they managed to hack other systems.Notwithstanding this fact, candidate Trump, when he knew he was losing to the Democrats&rsquo; Hillary Clinton, started preparing his followers for his then seemingly eventual loss, by claiming the only way he would lose to her would have been because the system was rigged in her favour.Fact is, it&rsquo;s virtually impossible to rig US elections, especially at the presidential level, owing to a number of reasons beyond the scope of this column, suffice it to say key among them is the fact that the US system is decentralised besides being open and transparent. Can the same thing be said about our electoral system in Kenya? Of course not! We have never had a single election since Independence in which the vote was not stolen, especially at the presidential level. The only exception, one could argue, would be the elections of 2002, where the opposition was united and determined to reject the Kanu regime of President Daniel Moi and his then project, Uhuru Kenyatta. It was impossible for Moi not to have read the writing on the wall and done the right thing as he did by not even trying to rig. This notwithstanding the fact we have always had an institution charged with the responsibility of conducting free, fair, credible and transparent elections.Unfortunately, each of these institutions was compromised, with the worst being the now-defunct Electoral Commission of Kenya, which was in charge of the 2007 General Election and led by Samuel Kivuitu, now decesead. This was a man who, prior to being appointed to head the ECK, had impeccable credentials, only to sully himself and nearly launch our country into a civil war because of his doing the bidding of those in power who wanted to remain at any cost.When a new electoral agency, the IEBC was formed following promulgation of the 2010 Constitution in 2010 and Issack Hassan, a Kenyan-Somali, appointed as the chairman, many believed we had put the worst in electoral mischief behind us, and that he would be incorruptible, coming from a community thought to be neutral and not known to be corrupt.Hassan proved he was just as corrupt and inept as the chairmen who served before him.We now have Wafula Chebukati as the new chairman of the IEBC. But the question is, Mister Chebukati, are you compromised as those before you were? If not, do you have what it takes to proudly stand on the side of the people of honour and integrity, or would the dangling of a few coins and promise of power have you ready to cast all aside for short-lived self-aggrandizement?We&rsquo;re watching, knowing fully this time around, only the will of the people will prevail and you&rsquo;ll be wise not to even try to thwart it, notwithstanding what pressure is put on you and your commission.