The heavens opened that Sunday. It didn&rsquo;t rain but poured. So much so that NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga sent everyone laughing when he quipped that the Almighty so loves Nandi county that he pees there all the time. That was in the Kapsabet ASK showground, where thousands braved the heavy downpour to listen to the NASA leaders to the end.Worry not about that exaggerated spectacle of rain-soaked youths excitedly stage-managed by Senator Stephen Sang in a show of youthful exuberance. Somehow &ldquo;winning&rdquo; nomination under controversial circumstances has the young governor-designate eager to prove to a benefactor he has the capacity for a show of might.He had the temerity inherited from primitive enthusiasm to ferry lorries to tip soil on and block the well-maintained road to the venue. I thought the same about the motley youths videotaping themselves mouthing a learnt slogan until the heavy music of &ldquo;NASA&hellip;Tialalalaaa&hellip;&rdquo; drove them away to regroup shivering at a junction waiting for pay.But trouble came my way uninvited. I had used the wrong idiom in labelling Sang governor-designate, to the chagrin of my audience. Other than angrily being asked who told me so, I was badmouthed and warned by party-goers at the rally not to believe what I hear. In my innocence, I had sought to belong and expected to be cheered in making the unsolicited conclusion I assumed was a given that Sang was governor-designate. We learn the hard way, and so I did.Something akin to a political tectonic shift out of pent-up anger is brewing in Kalenjin-speaking populations. The Jubilee nominations have left a bitter aftertaste all over. A straw poll reveals a community seething against what they consider imposed leadership. Sang falls into this category, given his assumed closeness to Deputy President William Ruto, to whom the revellers attributed their tribulations.This thing about independent candidates is an albatross hanging on Ruto&rsquo;s neck. Correctly or wrongly, he&rsquo;s being accused of plotting against the majority of incumbents taken out during the nominations.Ruto is accused of double-standards &mdash; while he has no time for independents in the Mt Kenya region, he cuddles them against Jubilee candidates, the majority of whom are incumbents, in his backyard.Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet&rsquo;s beleaguered Alex Tolgos, and their entourage of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, Oscar Sudi of Kapseret, Ainabkoi&rsquo;s Samuel Chepkonga and hundreds of MCAs are licking wounds inflicted during nomination battles with what rumour has were select Ruto candidates.The dicey situation for the DP in the North Rift is such that mutineers now pledge support for Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection 2017, but are quiet on Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 quest. They choose instead to blame an unnamed leader&rsquo;s scheme to defeat the people&rsquo;s right to choose their leaders.So determined are they to stymie Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 ambition using this election. This sentiment runs deep to the extent the 2017 voting pattern is disguised in riddles. When you are told &ldquo;leave the head of the goat to us&rdquo;, that&rsquo;s a crafty signal they may not vote for Uhuru after all, not because he&rsquo;s suddenly unpalatable, but it&rsquo;s their way of hitting back at what they consider Ruto&rsquo;s high-handedness.Another sinker is the Kalenjin community sees no chance of reciprocity from Mt Kenya, given the latter&rsquo;s aversion to voting for anyone other than their own. The Kalenjin are, therefore, not willing to be ostracised in future for the overbearing transgressions of one individual. They are readying to jettison from the Jubilee bandwagon soon through a slate of their own new leaders not beholden to Ruto.A weakened Ruto at base will be minced meat to victorious formations by Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, all courtesy of his own miscalculation of arrogantly wanting to lord it over all and sundry.The Kalenjin are known as keepers of secrets; they&rsquo;re unlikely to shout slogans as they are known to clap gently in salutation. They wouldn&rsquo;t be loud about their electoral choices until it&rsquo;s done. But for those who study social phenomena, certainly something is cooking in the Rift.Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi[email&#160;protected] ,