The Energy Regulatory Commission said yesterday power tariffs were likely to be reviewed downwards in the near term.ERC, the energy regulator, said it was conducting a study on the cost of electricity in the country with a view to lowering electricity bills the cost of doing business.Acting director-general Pavel Oimeke said the findings of the study will be ready by the end of year, and its implementation is likely to result in reduced tariffs. This will enhance operational efficiency for firms and lower the cost of living for households. &ldquo;The cost of energy for local manufacturers is still high and is among the discouraging factors for potential investors looking to open businesses in Kenya,&rdquo; Oimeke said in Nairobi. The regulator was in January forced to fight off reports that the cost of power had risen in four years from 2013 due to higher tariffs and value added tax, despite reduction in fuel cost charge. &ldquo;One of the key milestones achieved to date has been on the reduction of the fuel cost charge, leading to a reduction in the overall retail electricity tariffs. As a result of this development, electricity bills have declined significantly in the period between July 2014 and December 2016, a cumulative decrease of 60.5 per cent,&rdquo; the ERC had said in a statement on January 6. &ldquo;This was a consequence of addition of new cheaper geothermal generation capacity and sustained dispatch of cheaper hydropower plants. On average, consumers under the lifeline consumer tariff, which is charged to low-income consumers, have witnessed the highest decrease of 27.6 per cent (by December 2016 ).&rdquo; Data from Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that low consumers of electricity paid Sh573.67 for cost of 50 kilowatt-hours (units) in May &ndash; 16.98 per cent lower than Sh691 in July 2014 when the Jubilee administration announced the cost will go down going forward. Last month&rsquo;s bill for 50 units was, however, 7.4 per cent higher compared to Sh534.30 in May last year. Oimeke said discussions were ongoing with energy suppliers, including the Kenya Power and KenGen, aimed at increasing the share of cheaper sources of energy into the power mix. They largely include wind and geothermal. He spoke when the commission rewarded firms for complying with energy efficiency regulations of 2012. Kapa Oil Refineries emerged tops for saving up to Sh400 million after changing to energy efficient systems. Kisima Farm, which was also awarded, said it has saved Sh2 million per year after installing solar power that significantly reduced their electricity bill.