President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga both start off from dynastic backgrounds. One of them was spoon-fed in the right-wing corridors of comfort and oligarchy. The other is a product of persecution and prosecution. George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt exemplify the Martin Luther King mantra that the ultimate measure of a leader is their disposition and temperament in times of adversity. They are great men for having shepherded their people in adversarial circumstances.The argument of adversity is invalid unless we contrast how Uhuru and Raila responded to leadership challenges under challenging circumstances. The best head-to-head match is when you compare Uhuru&rsquo;s disastrous 2002-07 tenure as the official opposition leader, which culminated in dereliction of duty and defection with Raila&rsquo;s 2013-17 illustrious stewardship of the opposition, despite his being outside Parliament. After losing the election in 2002, Uhuru inherited the Kanu chairmanship, which even though it was the official opposition party, was still the single largest. Kanu was a gem that had been in power since Independence. Kanu, despite winning seats across the nation, and garnering most seats for a single party after the 2002 General Election, splintered into multiple factions as Uhuru watched helplessly. He goes down in history as a classic embodiment of not just a betrayal of the Westminster model of democracy, but also one of poor leadership, negligence and abdication of responsibility.Conflicted, Uhuru, like a surrendering general and without any signs of being cornered by the enemy, abdicated his defensive position and marched into the arms of his godfather turned political nemesis &mdash; President Mwai Kibaki. The gentleman who was declared the winner of the 2013 general election under very controversial circumstances, chose comfort over the plight of suffering Kenyans, who looked up to his youth for alternative leadership. As a scion of Kenya&rsquo;s oligarchy, Uhuru knew no better way to do politics other than from the confines of the state monolith and hegemony.In contrast, Raila is a portrait of a battle-hardened political insurgent, who for decades has on behalf of the masses, borne the brunt of state intimidation and detention, right from the Odinga household, to build complex global networks to not only attain incredible business success but also cut himself a niche as the fulcrum of Kenya&rsquo;s politics. Raila grew up in a household that was constantly under the radar of the colonial establishment, and later the governments of Uhuru&rsquo;s father Jomo Kenyatta and his successor Daniel Moi.Some analysts may argue Uhuru&rsquo;s surrender or abdication of the opposition&rsquo;s responsibility to check on the government was stratagem. However, any leader that at times of adversity sides with the oligarchs when faced with a choice between the people&rsquo;s plight and his comfort is self-seeking.Uhuru&rsquo;s over-reliance on State House patronage from two presidents &mdash; Moi and later Kibaki &mdash; for the attainment of his political ends smacks of a deficiency of self-initiative, and innovation that surely denies him the legacy of a politician with the self-confidence to create and then sustain a political formation in an adversarial environment. With the benefit of hindsight, historians can easily predict Jubilee would have scattered to the four winds under Uhuru, had he lost the 2013 election. In contrast to Uhuru&rsquo;s opposition tenure, Raila&rsquo;s Cord, without a state machine, expanded its political map through a metamorphosis and rebranded into NASA. As was to be expected, politically insecure President Uhuru systematically dismantled Kenya&rsquo;s institutions of democracy. And Raila&rsquo;s steadfastness and incredible stewardship should be credited for mitigating Uhuru&rsquo;s ill-intentioned and malice aforethought assault on freedom, democracy, and free press.Having been denied a second round through a globally dismissed and controversial court ruling, Raila retreated to the drawing board and engineered a power-sharing opposition alliance, comprising Kenya&rsquo;s foremost political titans, a feat Uhuru didn&rsquo;t accomplish after 2002. Under a better circumstances from being in Parliament, Uhuru appeared helpless, without a clear agenda and direction to engineer a vibrant opposition that could put Kenyans&rsquo; interests above his own. It&rsquo;s this callousness Uhuru ran down the 2002-07 opposition then surrendered- that he swung his hands in the air, in defeat (during a State House anti-corruption Summit) when he asked; &ldquo;sasa munataka nifanye nini?&rdquo; Yet Uhuru could afford to spend the past four years focussed on the debt-ridden theatrics of launching cosmetic development projects without a feasible or viable impact on Kenyans&rsquo; lives, while cheering at ageist opinion polls and surrogates that questionably called for Raila&rsquo;s retirement, and sometimes arrest.For lack of an inspirational presidency, Kenyans, without ugali on their tables are more pessimistic about Vision 2030 under the stewardship of Uhuru. When gauged in the lens of leadership and staying true to convictions in times of adversity, Raila is by far a superior leader. What leadership has Uhuru displayed, absent the state machine?