Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has warned Mt Kenya residents against taking the general election for granted,  urging them to verify their registration details. Voter verification ends on Friday. Moi said voters must ensure their details are in order to avoid being turned away on Election Day. He spoke on Sunday at AIC Kirenga Church, where he represented retired President Daniel Moi during a thanksgiving and church dedication service, which was led by Bishop Silas Yego. “I’ve heard that there are a lot of voters, whose details have errors. Visit the IEBC officials and correct them,” Moi said. “Each vote has a meaning and purpose. It does not need to be taken for granted.” 100,000 voters have listing errors Moi was reacting to Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu’s sentiment that the IEBC said details of more than 100,000 voters in Central have errors and they might not take part in the August 8 polls. He reiterated Kanu’s support for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection bid, saying their focus is to transform citizens’ lives. Moi is defending his seat. Many senators opted out of the Senate race, to run for governor. He will square it off with Jubilee candidate Simon Chelugui. “We in Kanu decided to back President Uhuru because we want to give him a chance to build his legacy and positively change the lives of Kenyans. He means well. Let’s give him our votes,” Moi said. He was accompanied by Waititu, nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony, Lari JP candidate Jonah Mburu and Githua Wamacukuru (Kabete), among others. Others were JP’s MCA candidate Joseph Karichu (Kirenga), Nyutu Wamwere (Kijabe) and George Gathuru (Kamburu). Waititu said the report by the IEBC indicated that out of the 100,000 registered voters, more than 12,000 are from Kiambu county. The Kabete MP has been cleared by the IEBC to run for Kiambu governor on the JP ticket. He thanked Kanu for supporting Uhuru. Mburu said they will start door-to-door campaigns to ensure voters verify their details so that they are not locked out of voting. “We do not want a situation where people will be turned away from the polling centres because their votes have errors of their names, identity card numbers or pictures,” he said.