Football bitter rivals defending champions St. Anthony’s Boys Kitale and Kakamega High School will renew their rivalry on June 5 during the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association’s Term Two ‘A’ national games set for Shimo La Tewa High School, Mombasa. The two sides from Rift Valley and Western respectively have been drawn in Pool ‘A’ of the boys’ under-16 football show alongside Ramisi (Coast) and a team from North Eastern. Pool ‘B,’ which is also tough drew Kisumu Day, Isiolo Boys, Upper Hill and Passenga ahead of the second edition of the Copa Coca Cola competition set for June 6-10 Girls’ under 16 football holders Wiyeta, who are out to retain their title, will first have to come face-to-face with Coast winners Kwale Girls, Nyakach (Nyanza), and Utithi (Eastern) in Pool ‘A’ preliminaries as they look to advance and defend their title. The second grouping comprise Coast Region runners up Waa Girls, Chebukaka (Western), Njambini (Central) and Olympic of Nairobi. A new champion will be crowned in handball in the absence of the defending champions St. Luke’s Kimilili. St. Ignatius Mukumu Boys (Western), will vie to succeed Kimilili Boys but Nduluni (Eastern), St. Georges (Coast) and a North Eastern side stand in their way to success in Pool ‘A.’ The second pool drew Kenyatta High (Central), newbies Dr. Ribeiro Parklands (Nairobi), Sinyereri (Rift Valley) and Nyanza’s Kanyawanga. Girls’ national champions Moi Girls Kamusinga will square it out in Pool ‘A’ preliminaries against Utithi, North Eastern winners and St. Francis Cheptarit (Rift Valley). Nairobi’s New Jogoo Road Girls, Voi White House, Sega and Kahuho meet in Pool ‘B.’ In netball, St. Dorcus (Nairobi), Kaya Tiwi (Coast), Obambo (Nyanza) and a North Eastern team have been drawn in Pool ‘A’ billed as the pool of death, while the second group pits Karuri, Utithi, Cheptil and Mukuyu. Different track and field athletics events too will be on the card in Mombasa. Rugby Sevens poolings will be done on the morning of June 5 at the venue. Among the teams that have qualified for the rugby Sevens national bonanza are Kaya Tiwi, Mghalu, Galana and Shimo La Tewa from Coast Region, Alliance High and Kagumo High (Central). Whereas each of the eight regions entered two rugby Sevens teams, Coast had the pleassure of fielding four as Galana and Shimo La Tewa took the positions of North Eastern zone, who traditionally do not play the sport. Others include Muhuri Muchiri, Nairobi School (Nairobi), Chavakali, Bungoma High (Western), Kangaru, Katwanyaaa (Eastern), Menengai, Simotwo (Rift Valley) and Maseno School and St. Joseph’s Rapogi (Nyanza).