In business, we say your competitor has your best customer: Hence the competition by producers for the consumer&rsquo;s affection. Similarly in politics, your opponent has your majority voters. And this is why you compete with them for that coveted vote. By its very nature, competition is ferocious and cruel. You survive and advance by defeating others.Electoral competition has birthed a new cult in this country. It is called the independent candidacy. These are aspirants who failed to clinch their party ticket in the nominations, but are nevertheless determined to run for office on August 8.The independent candidates&rsquo; reason for their newfound benevolent existence is that their voters would be denied an opportunity to elect the candidate of their choice. And they are convinced they are that choice. Whether this is a valid and genuine reason is a soul-searching argument. But whatever the reason, the outcome is a definite win for two people &mdash; the median voter and the respective party leader.Their audacity has elicited strong emotions. They have been labelled as spoilers. Others have claimed they have been bribed by the opposition to cause voter dissent.So, are the party ticket holders just whining or is there a streak of truth in their allegations? After all, just like in research, you have two variables, dependent and independent. The former is the variable that is tested and measured, while the latter can be changed or manipulated to test its effect on the former. For example, to test the effect of brightness of light on a moth, you control the levels of light brightness. This control is the independent variable. How the moth reacts to the different levels is the dependent variable. The independent variable therefore becomes the input that can be influenced to change the outcome.If we give the nominees the benefit of the doubt, is it probable that the independents are being manipulated by the opposition to test the control of the party ticket holders, in areas parties consider their voter strongholds?Whether this is a null or alternate hypothesis will be revealed on August 8. However, what we are witnessing is the Pareto Optimal Principle. This is where you cannot improve one party without making the other worse off. And in politics, as in markets, there cannot be perfect competition.In the market economy, for perfect competition to exist, there must be enough buyers and sellers of equal power, so that no one actor has more control over prices. Perfect competition also means that it costs less to enter or exit any market. And most importantly, there are no long-run economic profits.Equally in politics, for perfect competition to ensue, there would have to be enough aspirants and voters of equal power so that neither would have more control over the vote outcome. But this is hardly ever the case. Evidently, being a political aspirant is not for the pauper. And going by reports of how much aspirants spent on the party primaries, and how much more it would cost them to cut and run, none of them is dropping off this race. And, as history has proven, these aspirants will seek to recoup by whatever means possible, including forging mileage claims, what they have spent in the campaigns, once elected to office. So they are banking on a definite five-year return on investment. This makes the race an imperfect competition. And just as it should be.It is, therefore, quite misguided for the independent candidates to ask party leaders to not only recognise them, but to also campaign for them. By so doing, they are behaving as dependent variables that must rely on other external factors for certain outcomes. Are they independent candidates only by name but not by function?If they want to secure victory, rather than solicit party leaders support that makes them look like wimps, they ought to concentrate their efforts to appeal directly to the median voters,who sit squarely in the middle of public opinion. This is because the median voter casts the decisive vote in any contest.The median voter theorem states that the majority voting mechanism will select the outcome that is preferred by the median voter (A Downs). This theory suggests that, where you have two opposing sides of roughly equal size in a binary choice contest, the electoral competition pulls both parties towards the issues that those in the middle are passionate about.So contrary to popular belief, the real winners in any election are the median voters. They always get the exact outcome they want. You see, the voters that support either candidate at a 100 per cent leaning do not budge. The candidate has those votes in the bag. And pandering to them would be akin to preaching to the choir.However, just like states display their war arsenal in military parades, it is necessary for a candidate to show off their political support base to intimidate their opponent. Sadly, the perception of big crowds has recently also served to allege &lsquo;stolen victories&rsquo;, should the outcome not favour one contestant. If one&rsquo;s voters are not enough to win, the candidate cannot count on his opponents&rsquo; voters. So, they need to appeal to the voters that have no strong leanings either way. These are the median voters. And the y determine the winner depending on which side they cast their vote. And this is how come the median voter always gets the exact outcome they desire. This is precisely why the candidates, whether independents or party nominees, should deduce what the &lsquo;middle&rsquo; wants. They should use their foot soldiers to consolidate and maintain their already secured votes, because all voters want to feel like they matter, even when they really don&rsquo;t, while the aspirants go out and charm the median electorate.Because the middle is where the contest is won.Losers never get the corner office -Unknown Mugwe is a political economist