Thousands of maize farmers in Kwale county are counting losses, following an invasion by the fall armyworm.Their oranges and vegetables have also been destroyed by an unknown disease.Farmers want the county and national governments to come to their rescue.Starvation is looming because of the poor harvest, they say.Worst-hit areas include Kinango, Matuga, Msambweni and Lunga Lunga.Farmer Mary Mutinda, yesterday said that her three acres of maize have been destroyed, leaving her and other farmers worried, &ldquo;as we only depend on farming to support our families&rdquo;.&ldquo;This time round, farming has caused us a lot of losses after invasion by the armyworm, which is resistant to any insecticide. It destroys crops from the soil,&rdquo; she said.Mutinda added that the armyworm multiplies and continues to wreak havoc. &ldquo;The government has not intervened to help us,&rdquo; she said.Mutinda, who is from Mivumoni location &mdash; one of the county&rsquo;s food baskets &mdash; said they are suffering.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve tried to kill the worm with all types of insecticides, but none has worked,&rdquo; she said.Mutinda now plans to use a traditional method that involves boiling neem tree leaves and applying them to the crops.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve not got any help from government. That&rsquo;s why I want to try the neem tree product and see if it will work,&rdquo; she said.The distraught farmer added that they have no idea about a disease that has destroyed their vegetables and oranges&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve not experienced it before,&rdquo; she said. Farmer Jacob Muema argued the government to help &ldquo;as our only hope has been shattered by the armyworm&rdquo;.&ldquo;The armyworm keeps recurring even after we apply insecticides. The government should help because we won&rsquo;t get harvests from the destroyed crops. We&rsquo;re hungry already,&rdquo; he said.Msambweni leader and Ramisi ward MCA candidate Mathias Mutinda told the county and national governments to move with speed and help residents.He said relief food is needed to alleviate suffering. Mutinda warned that if no action is taken, the county will experience prolonged hunger.&ldquo;We have tried to kill the worm by dipping it in an insecticide, but it&rsquo;s not working. We want the government to send its experts and find a way forward. We haven&rsquo;t seen anything from the government so far,&rdquo; he said.The worm has also been reported in Western and the Rift Valley and a number of African countries.Other worst-hit counties include Baringo, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kericho, Nakuru, Nandi, Narok, Siaya and Uasin Gishu.The worm causes massive damage to maize and other cereal crops such as sorghum, rice, millet, wheat and barley. It also destroys pasture grasses such as Bermuda, hay and napier grasses.It also eats kale, cabbages, legumes, pulses, bananas, tomatoes, capsicum, ginger, spinach, amaranth, onions, sugar beet, citrus, cucumber and sunflowers.The armyworm poses a serious threat to Kenya quest for food security.