The Environment and Natural Resources committee of the National Assembly wants the gazette notice on ban of plastic bags for household and commercial use immediately suspended for further consultation. The ban was to take effect on August 28 upon expiry of six months grace period the Environment CS Judi Wakhungu gave manufacturers when the notice was published in February. The report, which will be debated before adoption or rejection, cites the lack of sufficient time to implement the notice, lack of adequate stakeholder consultation and non-compliance with provisions of the Statutory Instruments Act, 2013. &ldquo;Even if the issuance of the notice had complied with the relevant provisions of the statutory Instruments Act 2013, the timeline of six months given in the notice for companies to cease operation was unreasonably short,&rdquo; the committee, chaired by Amina Abdalla (nominated), says. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers had warned the ban on plastic bags will result in loss of about 60,000 jobs directly and 400,000 indirectly, with an estimated revenue loss to the tune of Sh5.26 billion annually. The committee has adopted the lobby&rsquo;s proposal for establishment of a Waste Management Fund, which will get contributions from plastic bag manufacturers. This will go into funding research and entrepreneurial initiatives geared towards production of alternatives to plastic bags. &ldquo;As key stakeholders in the development and well-being of our nation, we feel that this is an opportunity for the country to come up with holistic solutions towards waste management,&rdquo; KAM chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said yesterday. The committee proposed that the Fund be formed as a public private partnership entity where the private sector would oversee management by ensuring appropriate distribution of funds. &ldquo;There is indeed a huge gap in waste management and, working in partnership with the government, we endeavour to establish a long-lasting and sustainable solution to secure the future of our country,&rdquo; Wakiaga said. The committee also noted that the country&rsquo;s estimated 176 plastic bag manufacturers will need more time to clear stocks, dispose off assets and fulfill contractual obligations to employees and suppliers. Further time is required to shut down operations of unlicensed manufacturers of plastic bags, the report adds. &ldquo;A sustainable waste management system will look at addressing both behaviour change and economic inequality which lie at the heart of our waste management problem,&rdquo; Wakiaga said. The committee also reiterated the need for the national government to enact strategic policy and legal framework to guide the county governments in waste management. The move by the Parliament to ban plastic bags comes 10 years after the 2007 attempt which widely failed. The country&rsquo;s leading retailer Nakumatt last week announced it would start selling eco-friendly reusable bags to customers ahead of the ban. Rwanda is the only country in the region that has effectively banned use of plastic bags.