JUSTICE Luka Kimaru of the High Court ruled that he had perused the evidence before him and concluded that Nyatike MP Omondi Anyanga was so extremely popular and that he be awarded the ODM ticket. Today, we are told, lawyers Kennedy Okongo, Edwin Sifuna and five others return to the same judge, seeking to establish how he arrived at this conclusion when the ODM Tribunal ruled the party primaries were a sham, nullified the exercise and asked the party to give the ticket to a candidate of its choice. The lawyers will also be asking how the judge arrived at the conclusion . Had he perused the original nomination certificate, which had allegedly been issued to Anyanga, and found it to be genuine and validly issued by ODM? The question some people from Nyatike are asking is: Where did the judge peruse the document? How did he know it was genuine? Did Judge Kimaru have ODM certificate specimens? ODM has said the certificate was forged and fraudulently obtained. This case will be a game changer and more public -spirited lawyers are coming on board, so we are told.===THE push-and-pull over who gets the Jubilee slot in the 12 reserved for nomination to Parliament has already begun in earnest. At the centre of the controversy is a senior figure in Jubilee, who is fronting his friend, a man, who is also the chairman of a nondescript political party aligned to JP, at the expense of a lady from one of the factions in the ruling party and who is said to be fronted by a group of wealthy men from one of the party's strongholds. However, those close to the lady have threatened to expose the senior politician should he keep meddling in matters that concern the region.===IS the ODM party planning to nominate Oburu Oginga to Parliament, for the second term in a row? Well, a top insider at Orange House tells Corridors that the elder brother of ODM leader Raila Odinga could be given another opportunity, only days after dropping from the race for the EALA jobs. Whether the party will accept this or not is a matter of time, but Raila is said to be cautious not to poison his reelection bid by appointing relatives and cronies to influential positions.===AN aide to one of the NASA Pentagon members is under siege. The personal assistant is said to be using the name of the NASA principal to extort money from aspirants across the country. Last week, the aide nearly got a taste of his own medicine after he escaped a trap to have him arrested for extortion. He had been invited to the home of one of the wealthy governor aspirants from a county in Western Kenya to collect some Sh1million, reportedly on behalf of the principal, but a last-minute tip from a watchman saved him the embarrassment that awaited him. The watchman, who has since been sacked, overheard a discussion on the plot to set up the PA and in turn alerted the flamboyant aide.===WIVES of influential politicians are known to keep a low profile and often do not their poke noses into the political affairs of their spouses, especially when such actions may jeopardise elective chances. This is not the case for a well-known wife to a senior politician and party leader. The wife is said to have participated with a free hand in the compilation of the party's favourites in the primaries. And her sweeping mandate in preparation of the party nominations list was shocking. The wife has already assured some of her relatives of nomination slots to Parliament.