Aspirants campaigning in funerals and churches will be penalised as it is against the code of conduct, the IEBC has warned. “You are only required to go to church to worship and funerals to mourn,” Bungoma county returning officer Katita ole Melita said yesterday. “This is a very unique trend in Bungoma county and we are warning aspirants that it is not going to business as usual. We will ensure instant punishments.” He spoke during a consultative meeting with parliamentary and ward aspirants. Melita also warned against hiring goons to intimidate opponents.  Who caused the chaos? Tempers ran high in the meeting when ODM governor aspirant Alfred Khang’ati accused the representative of his Ford Kenya rival Wycliffe Wangamati of being behind the chaos and hooliganism in Bungoma. Wangamati had been represented by FK youth leader Wafula Wakoli. “It is unfortunate that we are sitting in the same meeting to address matters of security with one person who is behind all the political violence. Wakoli, you are the cause of the political intolerance that caused the death of a woman recently,” Khang’ati said, pointing a finger at Wakoli. This did not go down well with other Ford Kenya aspirants, who defended Wakoli. Aspirants from Jubilee, ODM, ANC and independents blamed Ford Kenya hopefuls of always having goons in their functions and funerals.  IEBC’s duty to prevent violence Governor Kenneth Lusaka pleaded with the IEBC to punish electoral offenders immediately to end violence in Bungoma. “The ball is in your court. If you punish more people, this bad behaviour will stop,” he said. Bungoma police boss Charles Munyoki said they will take more stern action to avoid more death, injury and losses. “We are not going to deal with political parties, but individuals who commit election offences,” he said. Allan Chenane, the representative of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, urged the IEBC to tame chiefs and administrators who were campaigning for particular candidates. “We are expecting fair play and we don’t expect civil servants to engage in politics,” he said. The IEBC assured aspirants of a free and fair election.