Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho suffered a setback on Friday after a court threw out a case against his opponent in a tussle over billboards. Senior principal magistrate Charles Ndegwa allowed an application by the prosecution to withdraw the charge against Hezron Awiti. The Nyali MP was accused of mounting billboards without the permission of the Mombasa government. The DPP, in his application to withdraw the charge, said the complaints did not pass the test for proceeding to court. Senior state counsel Alexander Muteti said the charge sheet could not be used in courts as it was neither registered nor stamped by the magistrate. Muteti faulted the county inspectorate for hastening the case thereby failing to summon Awiti to record a statement. He further noted there was no list of exhibits to be relied on during the hearing of the case, making the case weaker. Muteti further revealed that there was no record of who made the report to the county director of criminal investigations. "There is no place that shows who the complainant is and when the complaint was launched," he said. He accused the inspectorate of taking matters into their on hands by preferring charges without the approval of the DPP. The prosecutor requested that the matter be taken to the county criminal investigations officer for further investigations. Speaking after the matter was discharged, Awiti said Joho was wrong in thinking the court would intimidate and '"shake" him. "The struggles to free Mombasa from its jaws continues. No one can intimidate Awiti," he said. On Tuesday, Joho sued Awiti for mounting a billboard at the Lights area. The court summoned the MP for plea-taking. Other governor candidates have also accused Joho of issuing orders barring them from erecting billboards yet his are splashed all over Mombasa. Read: Joho using underhand tactics to block us, Mombasa aspirants say over billboards row Also read: You are not a god, billboards will not vote for you, Marwa tell Joho The Governor earlier said he will freely donate his billboard sites to opponets who have accused him of using underhand tactics to edge them out. Through agents, the Mombasa Governor has booked 21 campaign sites in the county that has 138. Read more: You can have my 21 billboards for free, Joho tells opponents