A raging forest fire in central Portugal killed at least 61 people as they desperately tried to flee. The disaster &mdash; the worst tragedy Portugal has experienced in decades - swept over roads leaving charred vehicles and trucks in its wake. Among the dead include at least 30 motorists who were trapped in their cars.The fire, which was still burning on Sunday, brought &ldquo;a dimension of human tragedy that we cannot remember,&rdquo; Prime Minister Ant&oacute;nio Costa said during a visit to the scorched area around Pedr&oacute;g&atilde;o Grande.The initial deadly blaze started on Saturday and the flames spread along four fronts with &ldquo;great violence,&rdquo; said Jorge Gomes, the secretary of state for internal administration. Half of the people killed died in their cars, Mr. Gomes confirmed.The death toll stood at 61, according to Lusa, the national news agency. Officials said they expected the toll to rise."It is a time of pain but also ... a time to carry on the fight" against the flames, President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa told the nation in a televised address Sunday evening after the government declared three days of national mourning.A lightning strike was believed to have sparked the blaze Saturday. Investigators found a tree that was hit during a "dry thunderstorm," the head of the national judicial police said.Dry thunderstorms are frequent when falling water evaporates before reaching the ground because of high temperatures.Portugal is prone to forest fires in the dry summer months and temperatures as high as as 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) hit the area in recent days.At least four other significant wildfires were burning Sunday elsewhere in Portugal but the one in Pedrogao Grande was responsible for all the deaths.Officials said they had found 17 bodies near the road, possibly those of people who had tried to escape on foot once they realized that there was no way to continue driving. Two people were also killed in a car crash related to the blaze.Several houses were destroyed by the flames. Several roads were cut off by flames and thick smoke as firefighters tried to prevent the fires from spreading.About 1,600 firefighters, assisted by airplanes and helicopters, were working to contain the damage.More than 350 soldiers joined the firefighters. Schools in the area were closed until further notice and outdoor fires were banned.And though Portuguese fire experts said on Sunday that it was difficult to say for sure how the fires had spread so rapidly, environmentalists warned that the country needed to urgently improve its forest management and fire monitoring.