As the mid season transfer window draws to a close SportPesa Premier League clubs continued to strengthen their squads with AFC Leopards the latest to confirm their new signings ahead of the July 1 deadline, subject to clearances from the federation and the league management body.Ingwe have again looked to the past to bolster their present with Ugandan midfielder Musa Mudde returning to the club for a third stint.Ingwe have also roped in Kenyan international Victor Majjid as they look to bolster a midfield that was hit by the departure of skipper Bernard Mang&rsquo;oli, who left for Sofapaka.Kezron Kizito and Alexis Kitenge are two new faces who join the club as Dorian Marin seeks fresh solutions to problems that have afflicted the 12-time league winners. Former Thika United marksman Ray Omondi who reportedly left the club last year for studies abroad returns to join the den with former Ushuru midfielder Aziz Okaka also linking up with the struggling giants. In making way for the new signings, former international striker Paul Mungai Kiongera, Charles Bruno and surprisingly club top scorer Ghanaian Gilbert Fiamenyo join Mang&rsquo;oli at the exit door.Leopards are preparing for tomorrow&rsquo;s meeting with new boys kariobangi Sharks, who are thermals on a roll, having started their debut campaign with three successive losses. Sharks are in search of a striker to fill the gap with the rumoured departure of Masoud Juma to pastures a anew in Sweden. Posta Rangers have also delved back to the past to bring back defender Austin Ochieng from National Super League high flyers Wazito. The club penned their delight at the return of the towering defender with an official message of welcome. &ldquo;We are delighted to have Austin Ochieng&rsquo; back in our ranks. The centre-half has been recalled after a remarkable show at second tier side Wazito FC,&rdquo; read the welcome note. Kennedy Otieno &lsquo;Agogo&rsquo; became the mailmen&rsquo;s first signing earlier this month when he joined them on a three-year contract from relegation struggling Western Stima. Posta who lie fourth in the league host seventh placed Chemelil Sugar on Wednesday.