Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Friday asked Nairobians to reject Jubilee candidate Mike Sonko saying the latter is DP William Ruto's project. The Coast ODM kingpin drummed up support for his Nairobi counterpart Evans Kidero when they addressed residents at the CBD and Kariokor market. "They are now fighting Kidero using dirty money amassed through corruption experienced in the past four years Jubilee has been in power," Joho said. The two leaders took a swipe at the DP accusing him of disrespecting NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. They asked Ruto to focus on selling the Jubilee agenda to the electorate rather than making endless attacks on the opposition leader. Joho laughed off Ruto's remarks that NASA is being funded by corruption cartels. He reiterated his earlier statement that the DP has no moral authority to talk about graft in the country. "How can he talk about corruption when he is the most corrupt leader Kenya has ever seen," Joho said. Read: DP Ruto has no moral authority to speak on corruption - Joho Also see: [VIDEO] Ruto cannot talk on corruption - NASA Kidero said that Jubilee was getting worried with the growing support the opposition alliance is getting across the country. "They are talking about corruption but we know who is corrupt. We know they are worried of NASA. They should prepare to leave office in August." The City boss asked the IEBC to come clean on the flaws in the voter register saying that despite an audit by KPMG, the register still has glaring mistakes. "They told us that only 92,000 people have died since 2013. But what we know is that over 70,000 people die each year in Nairobi," he said. "This means that for the four years, close to 300,000 voters have died in Nairobi alone." Kidero gave an example of a voter Geoffrey Atei who is registered in Embakasi East in 2013 but his ID now reflects is a voter in Tana River. "We don't want to take part in an election where everyone is contesting on fake grounds," Joho said. "Why should we compete when someone else wants to determine the winner and loser for us?" The leaders were accompanied by Nairobi Senate aspirant Edwin Sifuna and ODM Starehe MP candidate Steve Mbogo. Joho and Kidero have been deemed key figures in Raila's State House quest and are both facing tough opposition to retain their seats.