Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has promised to stop Waitiki land squatters from paying Sh182,000 to get land titles should NASA win the August 8 election.Any amount paid for the titles will be refunded, said Joho, who is looking to endear himself to Likoni people. Incumbent Masoud Mwahima ditched ODM for Jubilee.Political observers say there is the danger of Likoni giving Jubilee unprecedented votes due to Mwahima&rsquo;s popularity. This is what Joho and his ODM brigade are fighting.The Governor&rsquo;s ally Mishi Mboko, who is Mombasa woman representative, is eying the Likoni parliamentary seat.Squatters on the 930-acre controversial Waitiki farm in Likoni were forced to buy the land they occupy. President Uhuru refused to have the government buy the property and let the people live there free of charge.More on this: You must pay for title deeds, Uhuru tells Waitiki squattersAlso read: JP&rsquo;s 3m &lsquo;fake&rsquo; deeds haunt ODM rebelsThe 11,000 squatters were to pay the amount in three years, from January 2016, in order to get the titles. This would have raised about Sh2 billion.In January last year, Evanson Waitiki, who owned the farm but surrendered it to the government in November 18 2015, said the land was worth Sh9 billion then.The Mombasa county government offered to buy the property but the national government did not permit this.In an address during the county's Eid baraza at Treasury Square on Monday, Joho said he will be a very important person in the national government should NASA win.Promising to take care of his people, he said: &ldquo;I will reverse all the bad they have done through a Raila-led government. In Waitiki, I will tell them not to pay from that day. Those who have paid will be refunded."The Governor further said port services will remain in Mombasa and that expansion will begin in the Coast region. He said ports and dry ports in Mariakani, Voi, Mazeras, Shimoni, Kilifi and other areas will be covered.&ldquo;You people say I speak too much. I speak because it is the truth,&rdquo; he said.Joho said leaders begged President Uhuru not to sell the land to squatters but that he refused because Likoni did not vote for him in 2013.&ldquo;I was waiting to see if that was a new government policy. Was it going to happen in other regions? But till today, in the history of this country, the only place where squatters were forced to buy their own land is Mombasa county. Then you ask why I criticise Uhuru. How?&rdquo;The county chief added that in Kiambu county, squatters were given land free of charge as their allotment fees were waived.He cited coffee farmers in Central whose debts were cancelled and titled deeds given as security returned.In an apparent attack on Jubilee governor candidate Suleiman Shahbal, Joho said some leaders in Mombasa have opposed their plans to improve lives because of politics and to make their bosses happy.He said they opposed plans for a dry port in Naivasha, as it will transfer port services from Mombasa, but that some government defenders say the dry port is part of a national expansion programme.&ldquo;A national programme that serves who? I look after my Mombasa people first then others follow because I am a leader here," he said.&ldquo;That is why I am asking you to vote for leaders who will stand together to fight for your rights."Read: Jubilee 'plans to kill Coast economy' with Naivasha dry port - JohoAlso read: [STATEMENT] SGR 'bitter pill to swallow' for Coast residents - Joho