Human development and conservation share a common platform &ndash; land. Land is finite. As the human population grows, accompanied by changes in consumption, lifestyles and behaviours, so does land use change to accommodate the growing human need (so-called human footprint by scientists). The inevitable impact is human-wildlife conservation conflict as previous wildlife habitats and wilderness are converted to settlements, agriculture and infrastructural developments. The sad part is that it is often viewed as a zero-sum game of development versus conservation; that one must be &lsquo;removed&rsquo; in order for the other to work. And more often than not conservation is the loser. At Independence, nearly 55 years ago, wildlife ranged over 70 per cent of Kenya&rsquo;s land surface that was mostly devoid of human footprint. Today the human footprint is, in one way or another, touching on that 70 per cent with wildlife being subjected to ever shrinking space.Yet it need not be &lsquo;us&rsquo; versus &lsquo;them&rsquo; between nature and human development. Humans need nature and the ecosystem services that come in the form of clean air, water, pollination (of our food crops and fruits), enrichment of soils, conversion of the sun&rsquo;s energy to usable forms for mankind and animals&hellip;I could go on and on with the list. These services are not to be gambled with. Try not breathing clean air for five minutes and see the results.This is where the protection of certain wildlife habitats, such as Nairobi and Tsavo National Parks, comes into the picture. These habitats are indicators of the bigger goal of conserving our natural world that provides us with so much life-supporting services.The SGR could have done with more dialogue at conceptual stages to avoid scenes such as that of elephants getting trapped between the elevated SGR embankment and the electric fence. Dr Benson Okita of Save the Elephants has since recommended that the design of the current electric fence be changed to one that funnels wildlife towards the eight wildlife bridge corridors so that wildlife is not trapped in a &lsquo;up-down&rsquo; search of a way through the fence. Further there have been suggestions that the cost of a fully raised steel bar rail-line may not significantly be more than that of the current raised embankment. If that is true then that would have been a more wildlife friendlier option regarding maintaining the connectivity of Tsavo East and West national parks.The SGR is representative of human development. It is a given that we need development&mdash;in the form of better housing, transport systems, methods of growing our crops and financial security. Indeed the aspirations of Kenya to develop into a middle income country only mean that there will be other projects of the scale and magnitude of the SGR. I don&rsquo;t think there is any &lsquo;real conservationist&rsquo; who disagrees with the need for human development as the improvement of &lsquo;our&rsquo; livelihoods is a natural instinct of the human race.But we need to recognise that Kenya can accommodate both development and conservation if we, humans, think smart when it comes to land use. Back in January http://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2017/01/greens-up-in-arms-after-the-sgr-train-has-left-the-nairobi-park-platform-ifaw/) I stated that Kenya (and that applies to Africa and the world) needs a land-use master plan, where development and conservation are accommodated.Despite Kenya&rsquo;s land surface being finite, and a growing population of one million per year, Kenya is still a fairly large country that can cater for all conservation and development needs. It just needs planning. The current haphazard development (visit surrounding townships of Rongai, Githurai, Kitengela to witness non-planning) will not be useful, not just to nature conservation, but even for human development and well-being.As captured by &lsquo;Uncle&rsquo; Moody Awori in his brilliant autobiography Riding on a Tiger, Japan is roughly the size of Kenya, has a human population of 150 million yet has a forest cover of 50 per cent (page 386). So the issue is not population size or size of the country. It is about planning.This requires we dialogue more and put on our thinking caps. The indicator of progress on this endeavour will be seen in the size of natural spaces protected, and interconnected, and the diversity of wildlife species surviving &ndash; especially our mega-fauna, for which Kenya is so famed for.We can do it.Head of Programmes, IFAW