Someone arranged for me to be kidnapped. I&rsquo;m sure of it! One of those men I have blackmailed did this. I don&rsquo;t think it&rsquo;s the prude. I haven&rsquo;t asked him for any money yet. It&rsquo;s either the VIP or GG, and I&rsquo;m leaning towards the former. GG is a wimp. He wouldn&rsquo;t have the guts or the brains to pull this off. The VIP, however, is powerful enough to get away with something like this. But would he actually kidnap me? Who does that?! Besides, he and I shared some really good times together. Before the blackmail, he and I were connected. I remember the first time we made love.It was one of those scenes straight out of a movie. Frenzied kissing, shoes being kicked out, clothes being ripped off. But at the back of my mind, of course, was Mr N&rsquo;s allegation that the VIP was a hermaphrodite. The lights were off and we were fully nude, so I took my chance to explore. I tried to run my hands over his body, but he pushed them away.&ldquo;Lie down,&rdquo; he had said.I obliged.&ldquo;I know most African men do not know how to satisfy a woman. I want you to know that I do not have that problem,&rdquo; I remember him saying confidently.For the next 20 minutes, he proved exactly that. All thoughts of Mr N, blackmail and hermaphrodites were gone from my head. It was, quite simply, an event. A concert. Oral lovemaking is an art. The gentle scrape of his teeth against my inner thigh. The feather-light kisses. The warm breath against my inner flesh, teasing, taunting, literally provoking my hips to move involuntarily. My sighs grew shorter, coarser, more laboured. Mr VIP was the maestro and I was the riveted audience with front-row seats.Yes, most men (I will not single out Africans) do not do this very well. He&rsquo;s right about that. Heck, most of them don&rsquo;t do it at all! Threads of pleasure slithered down my legs, making their way to the tips of my curled up toes. Then there was the fever. My body temperature rose. Slowly and surely. The heat, oh the heat. The infusing heat of adrenaline coursing through my veins filled me with a crazy thirst. I had never understood that Toni Braxton song until then:The heat is moving through your bodyTemperature is risingCan you feel the heat, the heat?It felt like an explosive device had been detonated through my chest and lower abdomen. I let loose with wild abandon and heard a noise from my throat that sounded strange to my ears. I remember asking myself questions. Who is this girl? What is that noise? A moan? A whimper? A cry? Jeez, it was so hot!!! &ldquo;You will have to let me up for air sometime,&rdquo; I had said, breathing heavily.&ldquo;Yes. Just not today,&rdquo; he&rsquo;d responded.That man, the VIP who made my body feel that way, surely cannot be responsible for putting me in this hellhole. He can&rsquo;t! Not unless he believes I will reveal his secret.&ldquo;I am intersexual,&rdquo; he had revealed to me after my fifth orgasm. &ldquo;Perhaps that is why I have such a good understanding of the female anatomy and how to satisfy you.&rdquo;I didn&rsquo;t say anything. I already knew, of course. Mr N had told me but I wasn&rsquo;t prepared for him to just come right out and say it.&ldquo;Are you disgusted?&rdquo; he had asked.&ldquo;No, dear me, no,&rdquo; I had assured him forcefully. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just taken aback, that&rsquo;s all.&rdquo; At that point he had moved away from me and turned on the light. He was ready to reveal himself to me, to be vulnerable.