The debate on the provision of free basic education &mdash; from nursery school to Form Four is an old one. As far as I can remember, as early as the controversial debate on African Socialism and its application in Kenya in the mid-1960s, free basic education was one of those &ldquo;basic needs&rdquo; that socialists stood for. The Kenya People&rsquo;s Union, the opposition that broke away from Kanu led by Jaramogi Odinga and Bildad Kaggia, held basic education as a free service that a socialist KPU government would provide to the people of Kenya. Notwithstanding the banning of the KPU, the detaining of its leaders and the driving of opposition underground, most &ldquo;resistance movements&rdquo; of the &rsquo;60s,&rsquo;70s and &rsquo;80s followed in this socialist tradition.Eventually, some of us realised that socialism, pursued by the Socialist International, needed to revise its theory of the role of the state in developing countries. The Scandinavian approach that propelled the Nordic countries to prosperity and modernisation after the Second World War was a better model to emulate in the African context. Hence, the Swedish social democracy experience was keenly studied by some of us. Putting tremendous investment in human resources development was key to the rapid social transformation in Sweden guaranteeing a just and equitable society in a political environment where the state jealously guarded social democracy.When we defiantly launched the National Democratic Party in 1991, we knew the Kanu government would not let us operate freely. We further defied the ban and went to court. Lawyer James Orengo used the courts to explain to the judge how unjust it was to ban a party which was pro-people and defend a party with state power using this power against the people. Free basic education was a cardinal pillar in the NDP manifesto. The momentum for multipartism could not be stopped. By November that year, the Forum for Democracy was launched as a broad-based national democratic front, embracing all those policies we had put down in the NDP manifesto. Even after Ford broke up, its successors such as Ford Kenya, the Social Democratic Party and NDP all embraced social democratic tenets in their manifestos.The elections of December 1992 unfortunately returned Kanu to power. It was not until 2002, 10 years later, that the opposition came and stuck together to eject Kanu out of power. The National Rainbow Coalition, following the progressive tradition of its predecessors, declared free primary education as the first policy it would implement once it got to power. Uhuru Kenyatta, then Kanu&rsquo;s presidential candidate, declared loudly and clearly that FREE PRIMARY EDUCATION WAS UTOPIAN NONSENSE. Both Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga responded by saying Narc would go further than that by implementing free basic education eventually.The leaders of Narc are those who are now in the leadership of NASA. They still hold the same view. The time has come to implement free basic education. If Uhuru also believes in this, then he is a recent convert and we welcome him. But let him not assume that he can be holier than the Pope in this regard and, hence, expect us to footnote him when we come up with this policy in our manifesto. But I did not expect anything better from this &ldquo;Kanu Mark 2&rdquo;; with a one-party mentality, good ideas must always come from &ldquo;the leader&rdquo;.But there are certain problems that we shall have to overcome when implementing free basic education. First is the quality of education we are providing at the moment. The content of both primary and secondary school education needs to be rethought. To what extent should knowledge be derived from &ldquo;what the teacher says is in the syllabus&rdquo;, and to what extent should knowledge be &ldquo;experiential&rdquo;? Or to what extent should knowledge be a mixture of both?Except for students who are in the school choir, the dramatic society or in certain games, most students go through school with only the memories of the blackboard, the teacher and the books. Some even learn physics, chemistry and biology without ever entering a lab! I am also wondering why physical education or &ldquo;drill&rdquo; is no longer part of building body and soul in schools. Some schools used to organise expeditions to historical and archaeological sites. This, unfortunately, is now reserved for private schools, which are out of reach by pupils from less-well-to-do families. As we begin to review the 8-4-4 system, let us provide some basic education that will ensure we nurture students who are sound in mind, body and character.Quantity, unfortunately, has become the central concern of government, when we think of what type of education to have after basic education. As a foundation for the future of the student, basic education is a right of all students. By the time they reach Form Four, they should be ready to make multiple choices and not only the choice to go to university. To fit into the job market or be self-employed, most students may not need to go to university. In order for them to have choices other than university, these alternatives should be known to them while going through the upper classes in basic education. Polytechnic training should, therefore, be made an attractive choice, leading to careers in civil engineering, agricultural engineering, etc. The arts should equally be attractive, leading to careers in acting and radio personalities etc.The large quantities we are now producing in the parallel programmes in universities may not, in the long run, solve our problems. The good news is that most of these are people seeking higher degrees and those needing paper qualifications to get promotions in their workplaces. At the undergraduate level, I fear for the parallel programmes. They should not be taken as the best way to provide university education for the many students we shall graduate from free basic education.The writer is Kisumu senator