Horticultural exports are set for an additional standard from next month in a new development by the country to reverse the dwindling share of her produce in the 28-member European Union. Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya chairman Apollo Owuor said the new standard &ndash; KS 1758 (Part Two) &ndash; applies on fruits, vegetables and herbs. The standard, Owuor said, will bring all exporters and handlers under a uniform, standard practice and will be the basis on which export permits will be issued. &ldquo;This will essentially eliminate the possibility of any rogue practice and lack of proper documentation that has in the past led to expensive interceptions at the market entry in the European Union,&rdquo; he told the Star. FPEAK and Kenya Flower Council, which represents large-scale flower producers, have also partnered to launch the Kenya Horticulture Council in a bid to help the horticulture industry jointly articulate sector concerns. KFC and FPEAK have previously dealt with sub-sector matters separately, leading to delays in responding to arising issues as well as increased costs, the interim chair of the Kenya Horticulture Council Richard Fox said. Owuor emphasised that the council is not a merger between the two organisations, but a joint entity which will address issues of mutual interest. The new body has been set up with technical and financial support from USAid through the Kenya Agriculture Value Chain Enterprises. Kenyan exporters have since 2012 faced challenges in the EU over excess pesticides and quarantine pests which has cost the country billions of shillings in export losses. &ldquo;We have spent the last five years developing systems to ensure that the challenges of excess pesticides and presence of quarantine pests does not haunt the industry again,&rdquo; Owuor said. Latest data indicates that the sector earned Sh102.5 billion in foreign exchange earnings in 2016, the second largest after tea, with a steady growth of 10 per cent despite the challenges. The sector&rsquo;s contribution to the country&rsquo;s gross domestic product &ndash; national wealth &ndash; is estimated at Sh200 billion.