Set in ancient Babylon, this book by George Clason has several short stories that teach valuable lessons on wealth acquisition. The main story tells of a man by the name of Arkad, who rose from a regular scribe to the richest man in Babylon.Arkad was appointed by the King of Babylon to teach the citizens of Babylon the secrets to wealth. Arkad had learnt these secrets from a rich man called Algamish, who had at one time used Arkad&rsquo;s services.The book was first published in 1926, but the lessons taught are still very relevant.Below is a summary of the main techniques on how to &lsquo;fatten thy purse&rsquo;:SEVEN CURES TO A LEAN PURSEArkad teaches his &lsquo;students&rsquo; the seven cures to a lean purse (being broke), as outlined below:1. Set aside 10 per cent of your earnings for the sole purpose of saving2. Ensure your expenses are less than your earnings.3. Make the 10 per cent you put away as savings multiply (bear children). Saving is good, but if the savings are not put to work to produce more earnings, you will take forever to become wealthy, and may never become wealthy at all. Factors such as inflation mean the Sh500 you put away today will not have the same value a year down the line.With this in mind, you not only put away 10 per cent of your earnings, but also find a way to make that amount multiply (think fixed deposit accounts &ndash; though they offer ridiculously low interest rates &ndash; starting a profitable small business, T-bills or shares).4. Guarding your treasures from loss. Here, Arkad warned against using the amount you have put aside for reckless things in a bid to &lsquo;get-rich-quick&rsquo;. Things like gambling and pyramid schemes, where there is a great risk of losing your principal amount, are not the way to go. Instead, go for proven and realistic ways of multiplying your money.5. Making your home a profitable investment. If you can, opt not to pay rent. Remember &lsquo;mtu ni plot&rsquo;. So buy a piece of property and one day when you have saved up enough, you can build your own home.6. Insure your future income. Arkad talks about investing the money set aside as much as possible and making it earn as much as possible so that by the time you retire, you have accumulated a substantial amount that can take care of you and your family. This is because as you age, you may not have the energy to engage in as many activities as you used to.7. Increase your ability to earn. Here comes the debate about how important it is to pursue further education. To get a Masters degree (or first degree) or not? According to Arkad, it is important to continuously seek knowledge because as the saying goes: money is power. With the knowledge and skills obtained from continuous learning, one is able to get new and more effective ways of doing tasks that ultimately lead to better opportunities and chances to earn more.