While certainly entitled to his opinion, Robert Owiti (The Star, June 8 ) reveals rampant ignorance regarding the nature of public opinion polls in Kenya. Commenting on Ipsos’ recent national household survey, he begins with a potentially defamatory assertion, offered without a crumb of evidence: That the results (described as “a tight race”) related to stated presidential voting preferences released by Ipsos were intended to “veer Kenyans off their frustrations with the Jubilee regime.” Indeed, he justifies this claim by terming it “foolhardy” that a presidential contender (and the incumbent government behind him) could attract so much support (ie, nearly half of all those interviewed) when “the country’s disapproval rating of the government [is] at 71 per cent.” Note, here, that he mis-reports this 71 per cent figure, since it is derived from a question about the country’s perceived “direction” (i.e., “right”, “wrong”, “neither right nor wrong”), not “the government’s direction.” His feeble logic is apparent. On the one hand, to him – given the various conditions to which he later refers – this 71 per cent figure must be correct. On the other hand, the presidential vote figures must be false. Surely, if Ipsos was prepared to ‘rig’ one figure, why would the company’s management not rig both (this unethical act necessarily known by how many Ipsos people?), and thus avoid what some unenlightened (and/or paranoid) observers consider an obvious contradiction? Owiti reveals further bias by attributing a financial motive to Ipsos regarding these survey results (ie, “the payers of the piper ultimately call the tune”), again, without having any information as to how the costs of this survey were covered (but which were explained at the media-release briefing at Ipsos’ office on May 30 ). More evidence of his ignorance is revealed in his rhetorical question: “How possible would it be that the Deputy President is classified as a presidential candidate and that he attracts public confidence at 31 per cent?”, and, “Why were other non-presidential contenders not included?” Yet no such “classification” was made. And this same confidence-level question was asked about: Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, David Maraga, among a considerable number of other officials and institutions, each one identified according to the position they currently hold. At least on this basis, then, Owiti’s claim that this was a “dummy poll” is totally without foundation. Next, he (confusingly) states that “the Ipsos poll may have overlooked the need not to include the criticism as regards displeasure with the direction the country is headed, but this could have accorded it some relevance.” Aside from the contorted grammar (“overlooked the need not to include…”), this media release certainly did include perceptions of the country’s direction; indeed, it is the very figure of “wrong direction” (ie, 71 per cent), that Owiti himself cites (noted above)! He then offers that “opinion polling will not replace other techniques that aid accurate gauging of public sentiments that build political support or opposition”, without offering a single such alternative technique. Nor does he indicate whether the purported accuracy-failures of opinion polling that distress him are a function of their (neutral, scientific) methodology, or of the sort of falsification he initially claims about these results? Even more ridiculous, he asserts that British Prime Minister Theresa May called a ‘snap’ election in mid-April based on “influenced polls”, when no such claim has been made in the UK about their general accuracy, either before or after the election itself. And let’s not forget that these same polls showed that much of her lead had collapsed by Election Day (June 8 ), to just five per cent, the Conservatives ending up with a (total popular) vote advantage of about two per cent (barely outside the error-margins of most of these polls’. So, while May was certainly mistaken to assume (if she did) that her April lead guaranteed her an even bigger majority in the next Parliament, it is certainly a reminder that campaign strategy and performance can matter a great deal. But after all such unsubstantiated claims, he takes solace in his view that, in Kenya at least, they have at most minimal impact on citizens/the electorate, since “Kenyans remain ethnicised and less likely to be swayed anyway.” Well, if that is indeed the case (about which, once again, no evidence is offered), why make such a fuss? Dr Wolf is a research analyst for Ipsos-Kenya. The views expressed are his own.     