The Kenyan political party has evolved considerably since Independence.It is often forgotten, or not noticed at all, even by media researchers, that the Independence General Election, held May 18-26, 1963, was actually a multiparty electoral event. What&rsquo;s more, it had independent candidates and they won a creditable 4.32 per cent of the vote. And, yes, there were incidents of pre-election violence, even under the watchful and all-seeing eye of the departing British colonists. This was the last election before the first Madaraka Day on June 1 and the first Jamhuri Day on December 12, that same year. It would also effectively be the last multiparty General Election in Kenya until 1992 and the last at which independents were out to make a point, until the August 8, 2017 event, now 67 days down the road. According to Wikipedia, quoting Nohlen, D, Krennerich, M &amp; Thibaut, B (1999) Elections in Africa: A Data handbook, p486) the Kenya African National Union of Jomo Kenyatta, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, James Gichuru and Tom Mboya, among other nationalist struggle bigwigs, won 83 of the 124 seats in the House of Representatives and 18 of the 38 seats in the Senate. Five seats in the House and 38 seats in the Senate went unfilled in the face of the Shifta disturbances in Northeastern, then designated the Northern Frontier District, or NFD. Wikipedia goes on, &ldquo;A total of 275 candidates contested the elections for the House of Representatives; 90 from Kanu, 59 from the Kenya African Democratic Union (Kadu), 20 from the African People's Party (APP), five from the Baluhya Political Union (BPU), three from the Coast People's Party and 98 independents&rdquo;. Kanu won with 1,028,906 votes, or 59.18 per cent, followed by Kadu with 474,933 (18 per cent), the APP with 147,039 (27.43 per cent), the BPU with 5,520 (0.32 per cent) and independents with 82,328 (4.32 percent). It would be the first and last General Election in Kenya in which the winning party was not a power incumbent until the 2002 event that would remove Kanu from office. All other elections before 2002 and thereafter were tightly managed and their results announced by the government of the day. The second General Election was scheduled for May 1968, but President Kenyatta, aged around 80, was taken ill while on his annual &ldquo;working holiday&rdquo; at the Coast and it was postponed to late 1969. According to his biographer Duncan Ndegwa, in Walking in Kenyatta Struggles My Story (New English Press 2011), Jomo had descended into a diabetic coma and it was a medical miracle that he climbed out of it. Kanu now ruled Kenya as a de facto one-party state after the banning of former Vice President Odinga&rsquo;s Kenya People&rsquo;s Union on October 30, 1969 following the violence at the opening of the Russian-built Nyanza Provincial General Hospital on October 25 the same year, a presidential function. The Second General Election was therefore a strictly one-party affair. Wikipedia has the following statistics for the 1969 polls: &ldquo;600 Kanu candidates stood for the 158 seats in the newly unicameral National Assembly, with 77 incumbents defeated. Voter turnout was 44.6 per cent. Following the election, a further 12 members were appointed by Kenyatta.&rdquo; THE FIRST 100 PER CENT WIN IN A KENYAN GENERAL ELECTION The Fourth General Election &ndash; and President Kenyatta&rsquo;s last &ndash; was held on October 14, 1974, under de facto one-party state conditions and Kanu garnered 2,627,308 votes, or 100 per cent. Wikipedia reports, &ldquo;740 Kanu candidates stood for the 158 National Assembly seats, with 88 incumbents (including four ministers) defeated. Voter turnout was 56.5 per cent. Following the election, a further 12 members were appointed by President Jomo Kenyatta.&rdquo; Among the fallen ministers was Dr Njoroge Mungai, the President&rsquo;s relative and personal physician and a sworn political foe of Vice President Daniel arap Moi (in office since 1967) and Attorney General Charles Njonjo (in office since 1963). Mungai was among the foremost of the so-called Kiambu Mafia political elite who were opposed to VP Moi &ndash; or any other non-Kikuyu &ndash; succeeding Jomo. Njonjo, himself Kikuyu, disagreed completely with this Mt Kenyan chauvinism and would play kingmaker to Moi as Jomo&rsquo;s successor when the time came. Njonjo is still alive, hale and hearty at 97, but rarely publicly discusses politics. President Jomo Kenyatta died at State House Mombasa on the night of August 21-22 1978. The following afternoon Moi was sworn in at State House, Nairobi, as acting President for a period of 90 days at a Cabinet meeting attended and for the most part controlled by Njonjo as AG and ex officio member of the council of ministers. The next three general elections in Kenya &mdash; 1979, 1983 and 1988 &mdash; were completely controlled by the state, the latter two under conditions of a de jure one-party state. President Moi, Vice President Mwai Kibaki and AG Charles Njonjo had transitioned Kenya from its de facto one-party state to de jure by the expedient of Section 2(a) of the Constitution in 1982. Kanu was now the only legitimate political party and authority in Kenya. &lsquo;ETHNICITY AND ETHNIC KINGS&rsquo; Kenyan scholar Korwa G. Adar, in his article &ldquo;Ethnicity and Ethnic Kings:The Enduring Dual Constraint in Kenya's Multiethnic Democratic Electoral Experiment&rdquo;, published in Journal of the Third World Spectrum 5, No 2 (Fall 1998), had this to say on Section 2(a): &ldquo;Kenya was made a one-party state through the 1982 Constitutional Amendment, Clause 2(a), which took only twenty minutes to pass in Parliament. Opposition or even dissenting views within the Kanu hierarchy was officially buried, with the backbenchers&rsquo; &lsquo;unofficial opposition stance in Parliament&rsquo; being forcefully dismantled. &ldquo;Indeed, the institutionalisation of one-partyism was based on the assumption that henceforth, Kenya was to become a monolithic society in which dissenting views were perceived to be non-existent both at the voter and parliamentary candidate levels. It was on this operational practise that Oginga Odinga and George Anyona were expelled from Kanu following their announcement to form the Kenya National Socialist Alliance (KASA) in 1982&rdquo;. Nine years later, in November 1991, under immense pressure in the international context of the end of the Cold War as signaled by the fall of the Berlin War and President Kenneth Kaunda&rsquo;s fall in Zambia (defeated in a multiparty election) and the clamour for the restoration of political pluralism in Kenya, President Moi finally presided over the removal of Section 2a and the holding of Kenya&rsquo;s first multiparty poll in December 1992. DEMOCRACY DEFINED AS &lsquo;ABSENCE OF COLONIALISM&rsquo; Adar also noted in his essay &ldquo;Ethnicity and Ethnic Kings&rdquo;, that, &ldquo;As far as Kenya and other African states are concerned, democracy seems to have been associated with the absence of colonialism. The leaders gradually usurped power and eroded the chances for the establishment of sustainable democratic electoral systems, some even declaring themselves presidents for life (Banda of Malawi and Bokasa of Central African Republic)&rdquo;.Mzee Kenyatta was effectively a President for Life, without being declared one. His successor Moi served 24 years in the office, an entire generation, and moved Kenya from a de facto to a de jure one-party state and finally presided over the restoration of pluralism. The template set by Kanu&rsquo;s one-party state and Big Man of politics attended by a personality cult and the powerful party that demands absolute loyalty and group think began to unravel in Kenya with the restoration of political pluralism in 1991, but it has had a long hangover. What&rsquo;s more, it has spilled over into parties that have never provided Kenya with a President &ndash; among them ODM, Wiper and Ford Kenya. These three Opposition outfits have however provided Kenya with only its second Prime Minister (ODM&rsquo;s Raila in 2008-2012), the 10th and last Vice President (Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo in 2008-2012) and two consecutive VPs (Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Michael Kijana Wamalwa in 2002-2005 and Moody Awori in 2005-2007). RISE OF THE INDEPENDENTS &amp; THE 2017 RACEThe evolution of the Kenyan political party has never been more marked than during the all-party nominations for the 12th General Election held between April 13 and 30 this year. They were a sight to behold &ndash; shambolic through and through, with biggest parties ODM and Jubilee being the worst organized and generating the most spectacular fallout. The sons respectively of founding President Jomo (President Uhuru) and founding VP Jaramogi (former PM Raila) were revealed as Big Man-of-Party-Politics figures and their parties as still suffering an enormous Kanu mindset hangover. The result of the chaotic primaries was the rise of independent candidates in numbers never before witnessed in a Kenyan General Election &ndash; almost 5,000. Something has snapped somewhere. And both President Uhuru and NASA presidential flagbearer Raila have been extremely slow, even distinctly confused, on the uptake, sending out confusing signals on how the traditional big parties they lead should deal with the independents&rsquo; phenomenon. Raila has expressly ordered the ODM faithful not to vote for independents. Uhuru remains ambivalent, asking only that the independents in his strongholds take care they do not divide the Presidential vote. One of the wonders of Election Day August 8 will be how the independents fare and what difference they make in the Presidential race outcome.