SportPesa has given notice of withdrawal from sports&rsquo; partnership as well as sponsoring of the clubs in the country following the government&rsquo;s levy of 35 percent tax on the betting companies&rsquo; profits.The funding withdrawal that will takes effect from January 1, 2018 will largely affect the Kenya Premier League, Football Kenya Federation, Premier League giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards and Nationwide league side Nakuru All Stars. Also to be hit hard will be Boxing Association of Kenya league and rugby national teams. SportPesa chief executive officer, Ronald Karauri, tweeted, &ldquo;As @SportPesa we will be giving notice to clubs and unions that from January 1, we will withdraw all sponsorship.&rdquo;Sportpesa signed a deal with football giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards in February, 2015 estimated to be Sh50m and 40m respectively per season for five seasons. However, according to Karauri, 2018 will not be business as usual as many of Kenya clubs who have had financial constraints in past are likely drift back in the situation again. On June 13, Uhuru refused to sign the Bill and recommended that betting, lotteries and gaming activities be taxed at the rate of 35 per cent, after Treasury Cabinet Secretary, Henry Rotich had originally proposed raising the tax rate to 50 per cent. Rotich was quoted as saying the rapid growth of on-line gambling hurt the young and vulnerable, and the proceeds from the tax would fund sports, culture and the arts.SportPesa, who are also the new shirt sponsors for Premier League side Everton, is among various betting firms that had plunged themselves into sports sponsorship market to elevate their prominence as they lure football fans into betting.Ronald had earlier said that the cost of doing business will be affected by the finance law signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday. &ldquo;Our cost of doing business will be greatly be affected. We have to consider the impact of operating besides partnerships,&rdquo; said Ronald.The Association of Gaming Operators-Kenya (AGOK) also chaired by Ronald said: &ldquo;We share the president&rsquo;s concerns on the matter of gaming among minors and appreciate the need to protect vulnerable groups. This is one of our core functions. &ldquo;We also appreciate that the President&rsquo;s intention is to create employment through this tax, and of course, to raise funds for the exchequer.&ldquo;Unfortunately, we believe that the President was ill advised that a tax of this nature will achieve the desired results.On behalf of the association, Ronald said that the simple fact is that this tax is going to mean the closure of many of the legal businesses operating within the industry and the creation of a new underground illegal industry that will be impossible to regulate and could be disastrous to the country.