Governor William Kabogo has said yet again that he has never insulted women as his critics say.&ldquo;Let God strike me with leprosy if indeed I insulted them&rdquo;.He spoke on Friday at Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology in Kiambu town, where he was cleared by the IEBC to defend his seat.Kabogo, who is running as an independent, said his statements about women were distorted by competitors to tarnish his name.&ldquo;If it was propaganda against me, let those who crafted it be stricken with leprosy. I respect women,&rdquo; he said.Kabogo urged voters to be wary of politicians who thrive on lies to rise to power and warned them against being duped into believing that independents are against President Uhuru Kenyatta.He said he fought for the President before and will continue to do so. Competitors are using propaganda to find favour with the people, the county boss said.&ldquo;I support Uhuru and let people not come here and lie to you that independent candidates should not be elected as they were fighting the President. There is no instrument for measuring who supports Uhuru more than the other. There&rsquo;s no compromise on supporting the President. But for the other seats, let voters decide. I assure you God will work wonders,&rdquo; Kabogo said.He urged voters to reelect him so he can continue working for them, instead of falling for those whose focus is to gain power.&ldquo;For the last four years, I&rsquo;ve worked for you and put aside politics. The only thing my competitors are focused on is to gain power and how to share positions &mdash; this will bring Kiambu down,&rdquo; Kabogo said.He took issue with the IEBC for deploying Shadrack Githinji as the county deputy returning officer, yet he participated in the JP nominations.Kabogo said it amounts to conflict of interest and told the electoral commission to recall Githinji.&ldquo;We will storm the IEBC offices if those working for the IEBC for the purpose of elections are the same people who oversaw the JP primaries. We can&rsquo;t allow that,&rdquo; he said.County returning officer Hellen Kahindi said there were no complaints handed to the IEBC against any IEBC officer and those who have complaints should follow laid-down procedures so their grievances looked into.&ldquo;The issue was raised before and we recommended the matter be put in writing. That was not done, but they did so today. Therefore, the issue will looked into and necessary action taken,&rdquo; she said.