Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth is "ready" to face opponents including incumbent Evans Kidero and Mike Sonko, and will start campaigning immediately.The independent candidate said this at Kasarani stadium on Friday after he was cleared by the IEBC and handed his certificate. His running mate is Dan Shikanda."We have enough synergies to ensure Nairobi regains its glory. We are aware they are candidates who do not have an agenda and want to disrupt ours but we are ready," he said.&nbsp; "We will tell the people of Nairobi what we can do for them." The former Gatanga MP said he will conduct "mature campaigns" that do not include violence. " We will start our campaigns on&nbsp;Monday&nbsp;and move door to door. We are ready for this," he repeated. But Kenneth noted some of his opponents, whose names he did not mention, were implementing strategies similar to his."S ome of our ideas are already being copied by our opponents but we will launch our manifesto very soon," he said. Independent Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth (right) with his running mate Dan Shikanda at Kasarani stadium where they were cleared by the IEBC, June 2, 2017. /JULIUS OTIENOSix aspirants for the seat were cleared on Thursday,&nbsp;setting the stage for a bruising battle. They were Kidero, Sonko, Miguna Miguna, Michael Mutinda (Agano Party), Macharia Kamau (Party of Democratic Unity) and Godfrey Wanyoike (independent). Kidero asked county returning officer Joseph Mele to punish candidates who will propagate violence during campaigns.The Governor criticised Sonko saying he has not defended the county since his election in 2013.But Sonko hit back at Kidero saying he has let city residents down and failed to implement development projects "despite the billion of shillings he has collected from the national government".Read more: IEBC clearance: Kidero and Sonko tear into each other, Miguna finally clearedMiguna, who was earlier turned away for presenting signatures in the wrong format, was also cleared but asked to present his campaign schedule on Friday. He accused the media of "pumping fake news" about him following reports the IEBC blocked him from vying.More on this:&nbsp;[VIDEO] Miguna rejected by IEBC after giving signatures in wrong formatAlso read:&nbsp;Media pumping fake news about me, Miguna says after IEBC rejection&nbsp;