Kenyans have only five hours to file their taxes. Those who miss the deadline will accrue charges of Sh20,000 for every day that counts, compared to last year&rsquo;s Sh1,000. " Use the little time left to file your tax returns by logging onto iTax,"&nbsp; Kenya Revenue Authority&nbsp; wrote on Twitter on Friday. The taxman extended its working hours for the day for the public to get help, but urged them to avoid&nbsp; unnecessary penalties. People interviewed by The Star and others on social media said they were yet to file their returns.A joke in Kenya goes that many like to do things at the last minute.#animationA post shared by Sirnare (@sirnare) on Jun 29, 2017 at 10:52pm PDT"I will file the&nbsp;returns later on. Right now I am really busy but I will make sure I do that," said Emily. Jatelo wants KRA to help him reset his password so he can access his emails.Social media user Joseph Karanja told the authority he needed help urgently."I am having a problem with my date of birth on the KRA portal and dates on the national registry. How can I solve this?" he asked. Their concerns are valid but they come at a bad time.In addition, Kenyans do not know they spend&nbsp;about an&nbsp; hour&nbsp;and six minutes&nbsp; a day&nbsp; working for the government. You do not have to be a civil servant to be working for the government.&nbsp;Each and every one who works and pays taxes is actually working for the government.According to Economic Survey 2017, about 2.7 million people in formal employment while in excess of 13 million are to be found in the informal sector. Majority of these are young people with at least one million of them joining the workforce every year.With only one in five expected to find a formal job most of these young people remain unemployed or engage in casual work such as street hawking or subsistence farming.Majority of those in formal employment (64.5 per cent) are earning between Sh20,000 and Sh49,000. Only about 70,000 people (slightly more than 2.91 per cent) in formal employ earn Sh100,000 and above.According to TaxClock Kenya, if you earn at Sh20,000 &nbsp;a month&nbsp; it means you earn Sh 119 &nbsp;per &nbsp;hour .&nbsp; This translates to&nbsp; paying Sh 2,758 &nbsp;a month&nbsp; in taxes, which is Sh 131 &nbsp;a day. This leaves such a citizen about six hours to do his or her job, on the regular 8am to 5pm schedule. &nbsp;&nbsp; About 1.8 million Kenyans had filed tax returns two days to the June 30 deadline set by the authority. This was against 1.1 million Kenyans who filed their returns within the same period last year.&nbsp;The taxman estimated the figure would hit 100,000 returns per day as the deadline drew closer.The Treasury expects KRA to collect Sh1.7 trillion in ordinary revenue in the financial year 2017-18 from July.Read:&nbsp;Why wait? File early returns&nbsp;Try it for yourself, how many hours do you work for the government?