The match pitting former champions Butali Sugar Warriors against second-placed Greensharks highlight this weekend&rsquo;s Kenya Hockey Union men&rsquo;s Premier League at the City Park Stadium.The tie set for 6:00pm today, is key for both sides. A win for Sharks will see them stay in second position and close in on league leaders Kenya Police. However, a loss or a draw of any kind will see Butali move to second position due to superior goal difference.Butali, who are placed third and remain unbeaten with 25 points from nine matches ,come up against a side which have played 12 matches and have 26 points.A win for either sides will see them close in on law enforcers who are at the summit with 34 points unbeaten from 12 matches. The policemen are not in action this weekend. Butali coach Godffrey Wakachunga said there is a lot to play for and the team will give the tie the seriousness it deserves.&ldquo;The outcome of the clash will make all the difference. However, we head into tomorrow&rsquo;s (today) clash well aware that a win will enhance our chances of challenging for the title that slipped through our hands last year,&rdquo; said the tactician.His opposite number Ben Owaga said he expects a tough but interesting clash. He added: &ldquo;The stakes are high ahead of the match but we have prepared well and we look forward to a good clash and hopefully, the end results will go our way.&rdquo;Parkroad Badgers take on KCA University before Kenyatta University cross swords with Nairobi Sikh. United States International University-Africa play Technical University of Kenya tomorrow in other premier league matches. In the women&rsquo;s premier league, Strathmore University face Multimedia University today before taking on USIU &lsquo;A&rsquo; on Sunday. A win for USIU &lsquo;A&rsquo; will see them close in on champions and league leaders Telkom Orange, who have 27 points from 9 matches. USIU &lsquo;A&rsquo; are second with 21 points from eight matches.In the men&rsquo;s national league Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;, Impala square it off with Daystar University as Dedan Kimathi University welcome Kabarak University at the City Park Stadium. On Sunday, Kabarak wrap up their weekend tour with a match against University of Nairobi.