He has been adamant that he will not slow down, despite being in his nineties.And for Nicholas Parsons, that joie de vivre clearly extends beyond the radio studio &ndash; and into the bedroom.For the 93-year-old BBC presenter has given an extraordinary interview, in which he declared he 'absolutely' still has sexual desires and gave his fans an update on his sexual 'function'.The much-loved Just a Minute host &ndash; who is thought of as a paragon of respectability &ndash; shocked an audience when discussing the intimate topics, including his 'provocative' behaviour in his youth.Yet his surprising comments did not stop there, as he also described prostitutes as 'cheap slags'.When asked if he still has sexual desire, he told the China Exchange: 'Absolutely. It doesn't go. It's a bit of an effort to pull any function.'The father-of-two went on to say: 'I see all these beautiful women. I am very moved by female beauty, it means a lot. I love it when people make the best of themselves, and put on nice clothes and maybe wear a bit of [make-up].''Who would want to, if you had the ability to attract a young lady just by your own personality, why would you want to pay for it and get some cheap slag?'Aside from hosting Radio 4's panel show Just a Minute since 1967, Parsons is also well-known for fronting ITV gameshow Sale Of The Century for 12 years from 1971 until 1983.Yet he has always said that he will not retire, telling Radio Times before his 90th birthday: 'A couple of years ago, ahead of his landmark 90th birthday, he told Radio Times: 'You don't retire from showbusiness. It retires you.'Once the public don't want you, it's over. You're out. Finished. As long as they want me, I'm going to keep on working.'Asked this week how he keeps his brain sharp, he said: 'Using it. My brain is obviously younger than my years. You see people retire from other sedentary jobs and they potter round the garden and things, and they fade away when they' re 60 or 70. But I am lucky I have got a job that helps keep me young.'