Manufacturers are pushing presidential candidates to mainstream industrialisation agenda &ndash; which they see as a game changer in creating job opportunities &ndash; in their campaign manifestos. The sector&rsquo;s lobby, the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, on Tuesday kicked off what it said was the first of the engagements it will be having with the eight presidential candidates in the August 8 polls. KAM met with National Super Alliance flag-bearer Raila Odinga, widely seen as the main challenger to the incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta of the Jubilee Party. Odinga was accompanied by the alliance&rsquo;s campaign coordinator Musalia Mudavadi, among other leaders. KAM chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga told the Star yesterday that manufacturers have a 10-point agenda that will transform the country into an industrialising economy as envisioned in the Vision 2030 &ndash; Kenya&rsquo;s long-term development blueprint. &ldquo;As part of our endeavour to grow the economy through industrialisation, we are engaging political leaders during this pre-election period on centralising the economic agenda of this country in their party manifestos,&rdquo; Wakiaga said. Among the key issues discussed during the meeting, also attended by a number of investors, included strategies to boost the country&rsquo;s flagging exports value and raising industrial productivity to world-class standards. According to the Economic Survey 2017, Kenya&rsquo;s total export declined by a marginal 0.5 per cent from Sh581.0 billion in 2015 to Sh578.1 billion in 2016.Tea, horticulture, articles of apparel and clothing accessories, and coffee were the leading export earners in 2016, jointly accounting for 56.7 per cent of the total domestic exports during the review period. Total value of imports, on the other hand, decreased by 9.2 per cent from Sh1.58 trillion to Sh1.43 trillion in 2016, largely on the impact of reduced global crude oil prices. The decreased value of imports led to narrowing of the trade deficit by 14.3 per cent to Sh853.7 billion in 2016 from Sh996.5 billion a year earlier. The export-import ratio also improved from 36.8 per cent to 40.4 per cent over the review period, the data collated by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows. The meeting between KAM and NASA leaders also discussed how to promote and leverage the &lsquo;Buy Kenya Build Kenya&rsquo; policy to support the growth of the local industry. The &lsquo;Buy Kenya, Build Kenya&rsquo; policy was enforced by the Coalition government requiring state ministries, departments and agencies to procure at least 30 per cent of products locally. The quota was increased by President Kenyatta to 40 per cent on June 1, 2015, but this is yet to be fully implemented. Wakiaga said that tackling uncustomed goods and counterfeits, and developing a stable policy environment also featured in the talks. KAM expects to meet other presidential candidates in coming days.