ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has accused Jubilee of forcing organisations to contribute money for campaigns which officially kicked off on May 28.Mudavadi, who addressed Bomet residents on Thursday, said President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration should not put pressure on MDs and CEOs."Heads of parastatals [have been given targets]," he said. "Sasa hawa parastatal bosses wanauliza 'tutatoa wapi hiyo pesa ili watumie kwa campaign (They are asking 'where will we get this money')?""If you are the MD or CEO, be very careful. Usiweke sahihi kwa kitu kitakuumiza wewe na jamii yako. Ukipatikana, watasema hawakujui (Do not approve anything that will harm you and your family. They will distance themselves from you when you get caught)."Mudavadi did not give details and The Star could not independently verify the claims. But he warned that NASA is keenly monitoring the government's moves ahead of the election."NASA is watching. Do not use public resources for campaigns," he said.In April, the electoral commission warned public servants against using state resources for campaigns. Chairman Wafula Chebukati noted this will contravene provisions of Section 14 of Election Offences Act, 2016.He said those who violate the law will be fined Sh2 million or jailed six years.The Amani National Congress leader drummed up support for Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto who was cleared by the IEBC to vie for re-election."Sisi tuko sawa na tunajua Rutto ako na sisi. Mzibe njia lolote ili hawa watu wasiibe kura (We know Rutto is with us. Seal any loopholes that will enable rigging)."Read: IEBC warns public servants over use of state resources in campaignsBomet Governor and NASA co-principal Isaac Rutto receives his IEBC clearance certificate from county returning officer William Ndung'u, June 1, 2017. /KIPYEGON CHIRCHIRMAIZE SHORTAGERutto said the government should consider taking maize, not flour, to counties.A government scheme to subsidise maize flour hit problems over shortages, stoking anger over high food prices.The government unveiled a Sh6 billion subsidy programme to lower the unit cost of flour to Sh90, after it soared by a third to around Sh136, during a regional drought.Read: Kenyan flour shortage stokes anger ahead of August electionThe Governor said: "Akina mama mumeona hiyo unga? Sisi tunataka mahindi, hatutaki unga hapa. Mahindi goro goro moja ikuwe Sh40 kwa sababu akina wamama wanajua mahali pa kusiana unga (Women, have you seen that flour? We want maize, not flour. A goro goro of maize should cost Sh40 because women know where to grind the maize)."He asked the people to vote for the National Super Alliance if they want to be safe.More on this: Bett blames farmers hoarding maize for high prices, shortageAlso read: 'You have to trust us': CS Bett explains maize shortage to Agriculture committeeBomet Governor Isaac Rutto addresses a rally in the county after he was cleared by the IEBC, June 1, 2017. /KIPYEGON CHIRCHIRPresident Uhuru Kenyatta will face off with Opposition leader Raila Odinga in August polls. Uhuru kicked off his official campaign for re-election with a rally in Nairobi on Monday, echoing a call by Raila to avoid violence during and after campaigns.Raila held a similar rally on Sunday after his fourth run for the presidency was officially approved by the IEBC at KICC.He promised the IEBC that campaigns will be peaceful. Many Kenyans are concerned about possible election-linked violence as more than 1,200 people were killed during the chaos that followed the disputed 2007 poll.