According to an opinion poll released last week by Ipsos, three-quarters of Kenyans believe the country is moving in the wrong way. If so, the majority have no confidence in the UhuRuto government. And they should then have long resigned as soon as the majority lost confidence in them.No government should legitimately continue to govern if the people no longer have confidence in it. It is not logical to argue that people can possibly have confidence in a leadership that is leading the country in the wrong direction, nor can it be argued that the country is leading itself in the wrong way.Yet in all democracies, the consequence of people losing confidence in their government is that the leaders responsible for that must resign, and call an election for the formation of another government that the people can trust. This is because it makes no sense that people can continue being led by a government they don&rsquo;t have confidence in.It is, therefore, dishonest for the pollsters to pretend that three-quarters of the people could disclose openly that they believe the country is headed the wrong way and for trouble ahead, and still have confidence in their leaders. It is not possible.In judging whether Uhuru has become more popular than others, he cannot be given a comparative job rating because he is the only one doing the President&rsquo;s job and, therefore, his rating is against himself or those who have occupied the office he holds before, not those who are vying for the same job. To compare him with those who are vying for the presidency, but have not been presidents, is misleading. This is because while he is rated for doing a President&rsquo;s job, the others&rsquo; rating is for doing other jobs that are unrelated to the presidency.Uhuru needed 50 per cent + 1 of the vote to be elected. This still applies in his reelection. He, however, doesn&rsquo;t have the 50 per cent + 1, at least going by the pollsters. His popularity, the poll showed, stands at 47 per cent. Therefore, while Uhuru and his supporters might feel good that he is rated ahead of opposition chief Raila Odinga, he still does not meet the threshold of winning the election, despite his access to all the facilities, resources and opportunities he needs to become much more popular than his challengers for the top job.From the feel of things, unless Uhuru uses unorthodox means such as rigging to get reelected, his popularity does not compare with his own in 2013, his father&rsquo;s in 1963 or Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s in 2002.Indeed, three key things have contributed to this.Although negative ethnicity guarantees Uhuru a certain level of popularity from the Kikuyu community, among whom the majority believe his presidency will always be for their good and interest, even when they are not, it takes away or blocks a lot more popularity from all the communities who feel excluded from his government. Uhuru would have been a lot more popular if he had decided to be a champion of all Kenyan communities. He hasn&rsquo;t.Another issue that has eroded Uhuru&rsquo;s popularity is his failure to curb corruption. Having failed to tackle this menace, all manner of thieves have emerged and looted from the public coffers in billions. Instead of making himself the most popular politicians as a key enemy of corruption, he has instead built himself a reputation of someone whose priority is hardly to fight graft. It is impossible to understand why he has preferred not to be an extremely popular foe of corruption than an unpopular leader who does not seem to consider graft as loathsome as most of us do. Ultimately, anyone who dislikes corruption will find it near-impossible to reelect Uhuru.If for nothing else, the President wants Kenyans to reelect him as a champion of building new infrastructure such as the new railway that is popularly called the SGR. Nor does he want to hear that some of these mega infrastructural projects have also been conduits of bribes and other corrupt money. Worse, development of infrastructures is different from development of people. As we write this, people have no unga. They are hungry. People are dying from treatable diseases. People are jigger infested because of extreme poverty. Unemployment has turned youths into victims of killer brews. If people could, they should long ago have forced the government of Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto to resign, but they could not. The same people would be suicidal if they would add insult to injury by reelecting him to treat us to the same mess for the next 15 years.