The cholera outbreak has put the Ministry of Health, national and county governments and, indeed, the whole country on high alert. The rapidly communicable disease was first reported at a wedding in Karen more than two weeks ago. Since then the Nairobi government has set up treatment centres and advised all hospitals to ensure instant control for all new cases.As we await the victims&rsquo; quick recovery, we must now focus on preventive measures for this and related illnesses. Further, there is need to instal hygiene sensitisation campaigns across the country to address all precautionary measures necessary to cub preventable illnesses.Cholera, like many preventable illnesses, thrives within poor sanitation. It is, therefore, paramount to address hygiene practices and water access and usage to discourage primary and secondary infections.In April 15 people tested positive for cholera. Kenya is not the only African country affected by this ruthless disease. Countries such as Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania and South Sudan have also felt its effect.Cholera is caused by a bacteria called vibrio cholerae, which causes acute diarrhoea that can kill in a matter of hours if left untreated.Statistics from Resolution Insurance&rsquo;s disease trends report launched in Mombasa a few weeks ago indicate that Kenyans today more than ever are suffering from hygiene-related diseases.The report tabled by our medical claims team noted that more than 50 per cent of illnesses in Kenya can be attributed to hygiene-related risk factors. These directly relate to the degree to which we keep ourselves or our environment clean.Further, the report expounds that lifestyle illnesses are on the rise, especially among the youth aged 25-45. Basically, you are more likely to end up in the hospital for eating an unwashed apple than because of an accident or terminal illness.Further, the growth of the middle class has seen more Kenyans living on restaurant food instead of preparing meals at home. This doubles the risk of infection. Most Kenyans have outsourced their nutrition and, by extension, their health. We risk losing Kenya&rsquo;s economic drivers to preventable illnesses.This outbreak, as noted in our disease trend report, poses a hygiene challenge to all Kenyans. It is a wake-up call to all households to apply all precautionary measures necessary in nurturing families.From health-related claims raised during the period January-December, 2016, it is clear that Kenyans are spending much more time in hospitals treating preventable diseases. This trend is discouraging for any nation.As much as we have experienced water challenges due to drought, we need to utilise the little water in our taps to maintain hygiene standards. Further, we must take charge of our bodies from nutrition to continuous exercise to optimize our daily functions.It is my belief that most basic activities, thought of as mundane and obvious, can help prevent such illnesses. For example, washing hands, drinking safe water and maintaining clean surroundings.Cholera and other related illnesses will be prevented when Kenyans adopt basic sanitation practices from their households to their workplaces and entertainment centres.Safe storage and preparation of food should be emphasised in order to keep the disease away. Safe disposal of children&rsquo;s faeces and proper funeral practices for individuals who have succumbed to the disease should also be communicated to members of the public.The government also needs to do its part in ensuring accessibility to safe drinking water and supporting education initiatives on hygiene in all parts of the country.Peter Nduati is group CEO, Resolution Insurance.[email&#160;protected] Twitter: @PeterNduati