Reserving front seats in places of worship for political bigwigs is akin to social stratification and should be discouraged, Mombasa governor hopeful Hassan Omar has said.Omar sat at the back during Eid prayers at Ronald Ngala grounds in Mombasa yesterday to send a message of equity among believers.&ldquo;A friend of mine told me we have started to bring high tables to mosques. We don&rsquo;t have high tables in mosques. We don&rsquo;t want to bring that front row ideology in the mosque. Churches, too, should stop this front row issue,&rdquo; Omar said. He spoke to the press after the Eid prayers.Omar&rsquo;s sentiments were echoed by the vicar general of the Mombasa Diocese of the Catholic Church Father Wilybard Lagho, who said religion and politics should be clearly distinguished.&ldquo;We strongly believe in the same. That is why there is no special seat for politicians or the President in the church. Even when President Uhuru Kenyatta comes to the cathedral, he seats on any bench,&rdquo; he said.Lagho said anybody who promotes social stratification is doing an injustice to the fight for equality and equity.&ldquo;That is literally causing segregation,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.Omar said the only time human beings feel equal is when they are in places of worship.&ldquo;If today in churches, synagogues, and mosques we start reserving front row seats [for politicians], it will be a big loss,&rdquo; he said.Omar said social stratification is rampant in Kenya.Psychologists say inferiority and superiority complexes are worsened by social stratification in society.Violent behaviour may be a manifestation of an inferiority complex, which leads to those who feel downtrodden rising up against those perceived to be affluent, studies suggest.Last Wednesday, Omar warned religious leaders against being sycophants and openly campaigning for politicians. He said this makes them lose respect. Lagho said commercialisation of religion is the root cause of the glorification of politicians at the expense of social equity in places of worship.&ldquo;Some of our religious leaders unfortunately are visibly aligned to some politicians and political parties,&rdquo; he said.However, Lagho said some special sitting arrangements are historical. &ldquo;Some churches historically have the Queen as their head. So, right from the beginning, there were special places for political leaders in the church. Many churches have since dropped that idea,&rdquo; he said.