IF the Ipsos poll results released three days ago are anything to go by, then it should be a serious basis to worry for the Jubilee political honchos and their strategists. The most dazzling denominator in the Ipsos poll findings was that President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s overall score was constant and NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga&rsquo;s score in continuous rise.Interesting to note in the poll results was Raila&rsquo;s score of 32 per cent in Rift Valley. This region is perceived Jubilee &lsquo;stronghold&rsquo;, courtesy of Deputy President William Ruto. Many questions can be asked as to why Raila seems to have gained ground and whether this rise will be sustained. Anyone who cares to listen must acknowledge that Rift Valley is home to Raila, whose traditional support base is Turkana, Narok, Kajiado, Trans Nzoia and the Maasai-Laikipia counties. These counties have been his political bedrock from previous elections. Anyone who needs to reduce Raial&rsquo;s score in these counties must eclipse his influence in the above traditional bases.Rift Valley is also home to many other Kenyans, especially in cases where the poll was conducted in urban areas. Nakuru and Eldoret towns can also be construed to host many Raila supporters in the expansive Rift Valley. There are many other factors that might have contributed to Raila&rsquo;s increase, like Jubilee&rsquo;s unfulfilled promises in many parts of the Kalenjin Rift Valley and failure to implement the TJRC Report, a matter at the heart of the Maasai community in the region. Other factors are the unrest in Laikipia and unprecedented insecurity in the Baringo and West Pokot counties.The dissolution of URP and TNA did not go down well with some members of the Kalenjin and the majority of the Maa community, which has seen defections to Raila&rsquo;s party and NASA-friendly parties by Rift Valley politicians like Ole Kenta and Ole Ntutu, among other Maasai politicians. The entry of Isaac Rutto into NASA as a member of the Pentagon cannot be underestimated. Isaac Rutto is a shrewed politician from the days of President Moi and might just sway a sizeable chunk of voters Raila&rsquo;s way. We have also witnessed resentment from a section of the Kalenjin leadership led by the Deputy President, the likes of Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and cohorts that might also work in favour of Jubilee opponents in the region..