Royal Salute beat Samsung Curve 18-16 to win the Horseman Trophy at the Nairobi Polo Club over the weekend.Craig Millar (3), Mbugua Ngugi (2), Philoi Salle (2) and Kimoi Moi (1.5) were on target for Royal Salute as Tarquin Gross (2.5), Raphael Nzomo (2), Phillip Arungah (2) and Tiva Gross (2) made the points.Samsung Curve were treated to playing a catch-up game in the 12 chukkas at the weekend. The Curve lost 6-5 on Friday and 7-5 on Saturday and even though they were one better of Royal Salute at 6-5 yesterday, their efforts were not enough to run away with the trophy.In yesterday&rsquo;s four chukkas, Tarquin drew the first blood and Millar replied less than a minute later in the opening period. The second chukka was a fast and furious entertaining session where six goals were scored. Arungah came into the party with a fascinating shot to help Samsung Curve close in on their opponents for 14-12. His goal motivated his teammates with Tiva adding one, Tarquin a double.But these shots did not go unanswered. Millar leveled the scores for Royal Salute at 15-15 and Kimoi ensured his outfit regained the lead (16-15) by hitting in a single. The third session was punctuated with some water-tight defence from both sides but it was Samsung Curve who suffered the most.In this chukka, Ngugi and Kimoi notched in Royal Salute&rsquo;s last goals of the match and they denied Samsung Curve the several chances they had in their area, ending the third period 18-15. Tarquin scored one goal for the Curves in the last chukka and missed three other penalty shots, all at the 40 yard mark, denying his side a narrow win.Ipod, a seven-year old mare in his second polo season was awarded the best playing pony owned and rode by North Kenya Polo Club&rsquo;s two-goaler Tiva Gross. Karen team beat Jamhuri in the barrel race to walk home with Sh8,000.Sandstorm won the 96th edition of the Lord Cranworth Cup - first played in 1911, then annually from 1922 in Nairobi. Sandstorm drew George McCorkell (2.5), Dominic Grammaticas (1), Omwakwe Arungah (0) and Nicola Jensen (0) who partnered well and won all their ties.They beat Samsung S7 10-2 on Friday, Mombasa Island Cargo Terminal 8-3 on Saturday and Samsung Note 5-2 yesterday. Samsung Note were second, MICT third and Samsung S7 settled for the wooden spoon.Tack Rack, comprising of handicap 2.5 Martin Waiganjo, Charlie Morley -1, Louis Roumeguere -1.5 and Eva Kamau -2, grabbed the Red Bull Cup after winning 16-9 over two days. Their tournament opener was abandoned on Friday after Waiganjo fell off his pony and was rushed to hospital. Polo will resume at the same venue this Friday.