At least ten doctors who contracted cholera from Weston Hotel last week have been discharged from Nairobi Hospital. They were discharged on Saturday and Sunday to go recuperate at home, but at least two patients who were undergoing dialysis are still hospitalised. The Star also established the 18 of 25 culture tests returned positive results for cholera. The culture method most recommended test for diagnosis of cholera because it isolates and grows Vibrio cholerae bacteria. Doctors said Weston Hotel, where the infection is suspected to have originated, show have been closed to manage the outbreak. &ldquo;There is a national guideline on cholera management. Weston should have been quarantined. Otherwise infections might continue and some people might go home and expose their families to infection,&rdquo; said Dr Simon Kigondu, who has managed a similar outbreak in Isiolo. Read: Doctors confirm Weston Hotel case is cholera, 'disgusted' by ministry's denialBut the hotel's general manager Michael Nzile told journalists that they had followed Health ministry procedures to contain the situation. &ldquo;We ensured that the situation was contained and followed procedures as guided by the Ministry of Health,&rdquo; he said. Kenya Medical Association national secretary Dr Lukoye Atwoli faulted the ministry of health for continuing to deny the outbreak. He said there was only &ldquo;very low&rdquo; likelihood that a majority of the screening tests would be falsely positive. &ldquo;We take great exception to the statements attributed to high level officials in the ministry of health, allegedly exonerating the hotel that was the clear nexus of this infection, and instead blaming the victims for bringing this affliction upon themselves,&rdquo; he said.No deaths have been reported. Director of Medical Services Dr Jackson Kioko said he would make a statement after receiving a complete report from the National Public Health Laboratories where the culture tests were conducted. Stool samples taken from a patient are usually placed in a medium that isolates the bacteria from the diarrhea. On incubation, Vibrio cholerae appear as yellow clumps which are then analysed to detect the exact strain of cholera. This definitive diagnosis allows cholera to be distinguished from other causes of dysentery. The cholera victims were attending a lung conference organised by the ministry at the hotel, which is associated with Deputy President William Ruto. They experienced diarrhoea and vomiting starting on Tuesday. Officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union accused the government of cover-up. &ldquo;Unethical leaders are those that keep quiet or shut the systems when there is a cholera outbreak, especially at a time when any spread would mean several thousands of deaths given nurses have been on strike for 3 weeks and counting,&rdquo; said KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga.