Chirau Mwakwere has dared the President to expose him as he threatened last week, saying he will not be cowed into remaining silent about injustices.On May 25, President Uhuru Kenyatta cautioned the Kwale governor nominee against lying to residents about land and mineral issues in the county.Uhuru said Mwakwere should be the last person to pretend he cares about the interests of locals in regard to land and minerals.&ldquo;Stop the propaganda because we can expose you easily since we have your records. Do not forget we have all the records of all previous governments and we know what you are," he said.More on this: Stop lying or we will expose you, Uhuru tells Mwakwere on Kwale land, mineralsMwakwere, a Wiper candidate, threatened on Thursday to expose those behind the approval of licences for Base Titanium and Cortec Mining.&ldquo;I did not sign the licences because I was minister for mining for 11 months in 2012. Cortec and Base Titanium were already there," he said after being cleared by the IEBC."I will give evidence to show who did it and on those who tried to expand the land allocation to Base Titanium. I was the ambassador to Tanzania at that time. Nobody threatens Mwakwere."The politician, who served as minister in Mwai Kibaki's administration, said those behind mineral scandals are hiding behind curtains of corruption but will soon be exposed. He also said there is also documentary evidence to support the claims against them.Mwakwere, who was with his supporters, said land problems have been transferred from government to government yet there are no solutions.&ldquo;The governments only acknowledged the problem but did nothing to eliminate it. When we talk about it, they warn us. That is crazy...Coast residents are suffering," he said."We will tell the truth during campaigns. Nobody will stop us from discussing issue of land and minerals."The candidate said he is not worried about Uhuru's threat as he has not taken anyone's land in the region.&ldquo;I heard my file will be opened. Please, let them make it public as soon as possible. I am a clean man and everyone knows that."He added that while campaigning, he will supply the documentary evidence on atrocities against Kwale residents.Mwakwere said his campaign strategy will remain a secret but revealed he and his team have toured all parts of Kwale to seek votes.&ldquo;My opponents wonder how we operate because wherever they go they are told we were there. They will wake up one day and find out we won."The politician said he will focus on employment opportunities for youths and women and the representation of every group in government.&ldquo;We want to do away with tribalistic appointments," he said.