The 2015 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) champions Butali Warriors seek to extend their unbeaten run today when they face sixth-placed Parkroad Badgers at City Park Stadium (4pm) with seven matches on the cards this weekend.The Western-based outfit have so far amassed 19 points from seven matches and will be all out to pile pressure on second-placed Greensharks, who are a point ahead from nine games. A win for Butalii will elevate them above Sharks with 22 points&mdash;eight less than leaders Police, who have played 10 games. Badgers on the other hand, will be forced to work harder if the are to stop Butali front liners, who have sounded the board 22 times so far. A win for Badgers will enable them hit their 13th point from seven matches.United States International University (USIU) will be aiming for their third win of the season when they take on second ranked Greensharks. The students have had a poor run in the season, managing nine points from seven games and a win today will propel them to their 12th point. On the other hand, a win for Sharks will pile more pressure to table toppers, Kenya Police, reducing the gap to seven points.Western Jaguars take on Kenyatta University as they plot how to revive themselves after their unimpressive run. Jaguars have bagged five points from five games and are placed 13th while their opponents are eighth after reaping 10 points from the eight games played.Nairobi Sikhs welcome Athony Agesa&rsquo;s Nakuru Club as the two clubs seek to increase their points tally. Sikhs lie ninth on the log with 8 points from an equal number of games while their opponents are 12th with seven points from their eight games.An entertaining battle will be witnessed on the women&rsquo;s front as second ranked USIU take on third-placed Chase Amira with a point separating the two sides.The students have managed 15 points from six games with Amira trailing them by a point though they have played an extra game. A win for USIU will reduce the gap between them and leaders Telkom to three points.Struggling Multimedia University will square it out with seventh-placed Vikings as the team tries to find their winning formula. Multimedia have recorded a win in five games, placing them second from last. A rejuvenated Strathmore University will play Mombasa Sports Club, who have four points from six games. Strath have 13 points from six games placing them fourth with a point behind third placed Chase Amira.On Sunday, 19-time champions Telkom Orange will take on JKUAT, who sit fifth on the log with Jos Openda&rsquo;s girls still on a mission to maintain one hundred percent winning record. Kenyatta University will play Sliders, who will be keen to redeem themselves after an 8-0 mid week hammering at the hands of Telkom. In the men&rsquo;s tier, Nairobi Sikhs will complete their weekend double as they are scheduled to play Parklands Sports Club before fourth-placed Wazalendo play tenth ranked KCA University. In the second tier, Wazalendo Youth play Multimedia University.