ANY political party that is in this year's August polls to win must put up a poll-tallying centre.The supreme law does not prevent anyone from putting up a tallying centre. The Constitution is very clear.It is also important for the media and civil society to set up a poll-tallying centre in the coming General Election to ensure accountability among all players. The law now provides what has been declared at the constituency level to remain the official results. Once the results have been declared at the 290 constituencies, the press and civil society can go ahead and say so-and-so has won.Political parties, media and civil society have always had polling centres in the United States for decades. Even before the electoral body declares the winning candidate, the press can go ahead to announce the person expected to win. And it has worked well.Media and civil society can project the results they have. If the 290 returning officers at each constituency level announce the results, then they remain official results.The law defends the returning officer and the results that he/she announced at the constituency level to be official.For a political party to set up a parallel tallying centre is no easy job. You have to recruit 88,000 people since we have 44,000 polling stations. These people will act as your candidate agents. You also need to empower them with modern gadgets. You need to train them on how they carry out their new duties and be able to detect any malpractices. You have to ensure you set up a structure at the national level to see to it that information flows smoothly. It will also help you to carry out the exercise swiftly. The biggest challenge is that both sides can infiltrate the opponents&rsquo; tallying centres. And that means you must have a strong, encrypted system that would be able to stand the test of infiltration. It is no walk in the park.Constitutionally, only the IEBC are allowed to declare the final results to the country and the world. Political parties run tallying centres to verify the result. The press should come together and set up parallel tallying centres, so that we can have accountability. I don&rsquo;t know what Constitution Aden Duale was invoking when he objected to diverse tallying centres.Brian Weke is a political analyst