Ten unscrupulous traders have so far been arrested for forcing customers to buy several other items alongside the subsidised maize flour, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking on Saturday in Kakamega during a Jubilee rally, the DP said stern action will be taken against anyone taking advantage of the subsidised flour to fleece Kenyans.Ruto said those "arrogantly" selling the flour at exaggerated prices will equally be dealt with. &ldquo;We as government have decided that traders of this caliber must face consequences,&rdquo; Ruto said.Read: Cops arrest four found repackaging subsidised unga in Bungoma churchRelated: Outrage as subsidised unga retails at Sh150The government introduced the subsidised unga to cushion Kenyans from high prices of the staple product that had hit as high as Sh180 per 2kg packet.The subsidised flour now goes for Sh90 per 2kg packet and Sh45 per 1kg packet.The shortage of maize in the country has been blamed on prolonged drought that affected maize production. Ruto reiterated that the Jubilee administration is keen on ensuring a long term solution to the problem is found.&ldquo;We have reduced fertilizer and seed prices to ensure that we help farmers to produce enough food to enable us end hunger problem in Kenya,&rdquo; he said. While admitting that there was short supply of the subsidised unga, President Uhuru Kenyatta assured that the problem will soon be sorted after additional maize imports arrive in the country. &ldquo;Yes, we have a shortage but we will soon end the problem once the maize arrives,&rdquo; the president said.Read: GOK's Sh90 unga hits supermarkets but buyers limited to two packsRead also: Panic buying blamed for shortage of unga in shopsRuto said hunger problem wasn't only unique to Kenya as other countries were also feeling the effects of drought.He pointed out that the Jubilee administration has handled the problem better than the previous regimes. &ldquo;We had hunger problem in 2008, 2009 and 2011. But when we came in in 2013, we managed the problem well except this year. &ldquo;But we didn&rsquo;t run away and say it is a devolved problem. We set aside some cash to deal with the problem,&rdquo; Ruto said.