In April 2016, a woman who had been carrying a dead foetus and had a Caesarean section in Moyale, Marsabit county, died at the Kenyatta National Hospital.Ubah Ibrahim Abdi, 24, was flown to Nairobi from Moyale by Amref after she became unconscious after undergoing an emergency caesarean section at Moyale Subcounty Hospital. Abdi had high blood pressure, eclampsia and internal bleeding.Marsabit county did not have an Intensive Care Unit, and emergency cases were referred to Nairobi, more than 700km away.According to a UNFPA report, Marsabit county has the fourth highest maternal mortality ratio in the country &ndash; 1,127 deaths per 100,000 live births.The leading causes of maternal deaths include haemorrhage (44 per cent), obstructed labour (34 per cent), eclampsia (13 per cent), sepsis (6 per cent) or ruptured uterus (3 per cent).In Mandera, another Northeastern county, pregnancy can be a death sentence, with the UNFPA ranking it as the county with the highest maternal mortality ratio &ndash; 3795 per every 100,000 live births.Following closely in the high number of maternal mortality ratios are Wajir, Mandera, then Marsabit.So what are the national and county governments doing to reduce these preventable maternal deaths?This three-part series seeks to find out the causes of maternal and infant mortalities and take stock of the counties&rsquo; and national government&rsquo;s interventions, gains and failures.We will begin the series by examining the causes and effects on maternal mortality.Seventeen women die every dayMore than 6,500 women in Kenya die every year from pregnancy-related complications. This means that nationally, 17 women between 18 and 49 years of age die every day. And to make it even clearer, that translates to almost one woman dying per hour.Maternal deaths account for 17.4 per cent of the total number of deaths of women of reproductive age. The economic and human costs of these preventable deaths impacts not only the wellbeing of families, the survival of newborns and the health and opportunities of surviving children, but also the economic productivity of communities. High maternity mortality ratio in KenyaAccording to UNFPA, globally, the maternal mortality ratio has declined by 44 per cent over the past two decades, from 400 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in 1990 to 210 in 2010. But in Kenya, the maternal mortality ratio remains at an unacceptably high level of 488 deaths per 100,000 live births. The challenge is how to reduce this to the 147 deaths per 100,000 live births which is one of the targets of the Sustainable Development Goals.In 2015, a total of 32,021 women aged between 18 and 49 years died. Of these, 6,632 (21 per cent) died of pregnancy related causes.Fifteen counties accounted for 98.7 % of the total maternal deaths in the country, data by UNFPA indicates.Nationally, nearly half the deaths (48 per cent) occur during delivery. But in five counties &mdash; Lamu, Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, and Turkana&mdash; over half the deaths occur during delivery. Marsabit has the highest proportion of women dying during pregnancy while mothers in Siaya, Kisumu and Taita Taveta have the highest proportion of dying in the post-partum period.These are the same counties where less than a third of the mothers are attended to by a skilled health provider or have their babies delivered at a health facility. They are also amongst the counties with the lowest percentage of women attending pre-and ante-natal clinics.The disparities in maternal deaths in the counties is huge with Mandera recording more than 20 times the number of deaths recorded in Isiolo, according to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey, 2008.The 15 counties, which account for 98 per cent of the total number of mothers dying, can be ranked as among the worst places in Kenya to become a mother. What county governments are doingThe counties have since 2013, committed themselves to allocating more resources and personnel to reduce the high number of women dying. Measures proposed range from building more health centres to providing accessible roads, equipping staff with relevant supplies and providing skilled health personnel at existing clinics to provide fully equipped mobile clinics to assist mothers and children in some of the outlying areas of these counties.Lack of skilled health workersAccording to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey (2014), the most at risk mothers are those giving birth in the counties of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera in Northeastern; Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu in Rift Valley and Tana River in Coast. This is because less than 32 per cent of pregnant women are delivered by a skilled health worker or in a health facility. These are the same counties that record high maternal mortality rates. The majority of women in these counties deliver at home with the help of relatives and traditional birth attendants.Other factors contributing to the high maternal mortality are shortage of health workers, inadequate healthcare provider skills, harmful socio-cultural practices such as female genital mutilation, and lack of use of family planning methods.On average, 62 per cent of births in Kenya are delivered by a skilled provider. A similar proportion of deliveries (61 per cent) take place in health facilities. Majority of the counties have achieved a level higher than this or a few points lower ranging from 47 per cent in both indicators for counties in Western to 90 per cent in counties in Central.The Mandera situationMandera has a low contraceptive rate (4.5 per cent) compared to the national average of 45 per cent; less than 20 per cent of the women giving birth are attended to by a skilled birth attendant. Mandera also has very few health centres where a woman can access emergency obstetrics care. According to the 2013 Kenya Population Situation Analysis, 79 per cent of the country&rsquo;s dispensaries and 17 per cent of the health centres offer normal delivery services. Hospitals are the only facilities that are equipped to carry out emergency obstetric care and, even then, Caesarean sections can only be done in half of the health facilities in the county and only in 30 per cent of the facilities designated as maternity facilities.Retrogressive practicesTraditions such as female genital mutilation and the practice of early marriages means that Mandera contributes a large percentage of the 3,000 women who develop obstetric fistula in Kenya annually. Many women still live at a considerable distance from health facilities and have to walk to get medical services. Even though maternity fees have been waived, many cannot afford to pay hidden fees for maternal services, and/ or face other barriers to accessing quality care. For example, for religious and cultural reasons, many the women find it difficult to be attended to by men. The majority of skilled personnel (particularly doctors, nurses and clinical officers) who work in the counties are men. According to the 2013 Service Availability and Readiness Assessment Mapping, the doctor/population ratio in Mandera is 1:114,000, while the nurse/population ratio is 1:25,000. Before health services were devolved to the counties, Mandera county had only six per cent of required health workforce (473 health workers), erratic drugs supplies and low capacity within the County Health Management Team. What is Mandera doing to reduce maternal mortality?Following devolution, more than 250 health workers have been recruited, but this has not done much to improve the health services, as there is still one health worker and only four hospital beds for every 10,000 people.The county government has also hired six ambulances to help in lowering the high maternal mortality rate by providing pregnant women with transport. The county government has also invested in buying 18 support/utility vehicles, 10 bicycles and 38 motorcycles. On March 31, Mandera Governor Ali Roba announced the establishment of 18 modern maternity wings in different parts of the county. Through this intervention, the number of women who are able to have safe deliveries has increased from 3,800 to 9,300, while those attending antenatal clinics has risen from 8,900 to 12, 300 over the last three years. Also in March, NGO Save the Children partnered with the Mandera county Health department to reduce maternal mortality. The Sh2 million programme will run for 30 months in Mandera West, Mandera South and Banisa subcounties under Save the Children.The county will build modern maternity wings for 24 new health facilities in all the six subcounties.County officials said the administration inherited poorly serviced facilities from the national government, coupled with the challenges of insecurity.The partnership targets more than 260,000 mothers and 190,000 children below the age of five.At least 90 birth attendants, and 90 religious leaders will be trained to spearhead campaigns to encourage women to visit hospitals.