A lot of things have changed since 2013. First of all, we did not have Jubilee and, similarly, we did not have NASA, in 2013Those changes alone would indicate that it would be na&iuml;ve to assume that the voting patterns of 2013 would be the same as the voting patterns in 2017.Politics is very dynamic. You cannot be absolutely sure that, for example, those who were in URP are all of them happy and, therefore, would vote for Jubilee, simply because URP has been swallowed whole by Jubilee. It would be a big mistake to make that assumption.NASA has a different configuration from what ODM had in 2013. This indicates that one would expect changes.But we must also recognize the fact that the profile of voters has also changed. That shows we can expect some changes in the voting patterns.The term &ldquo;swing vote&rdquo; is borrowed from the Western democracies and to try to apply it here in Kenya almost uncritically is wrongheaded. What is the basis of saying that this particular group of people will be the swing vote? Sometimes I hear this term and say, well, these are terminologies used because they have appeared somewhere in Europe and we apply them here.If it can be established that a particular region has the so-called swing vote, then, of course, they will affect the voting patterns, depending on whom they eventually identify themselves with on Election Day.The answer to that is yes: If we have the swing voters and they participate in the exercise, they will make an impact. But again, the other thing to consider is whether there are a significant number of people or not.The point is that we must be absolutely sure of what we are talking about in terms of who constitute these so-called the swing votes.You know, this issue of the tyranny of numbers has, again, been misplaced. Politics and elections are about numbers. Whoever gets the majority has definitely an upper hand and, therefore, gets the opportunity to form government.But &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo; is first of all a negative term, because the majority of countries in the world are moving away from tyrannical governments or tyrannical approaches to governance.I am not very sure whether we have been able to conclusively say that we have a certain percentage of undecided voters.Wanyande is a political science don at UoN