WORD has it that a cartel at the Teacher&rsquo;s Service Commission headquarters is trying to mint millions from teachers interviewed for promotions. It is said the cartel is taking advantage of anxious teachers waiting to see if they met the cut for the next Job Group after doing the interview two months ago. The cartel is said to be making phone calls to individual teachers, asking for &ldquo;chai&rdquo; (bribe) to help them appear on the final list of promoted teachers. Some victims of the cartel are asking the no-nonsense Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i (pictured) to direct TSC officials release the list as soon as possible before the extortionists mint millions from some naive and desperate teachers.HAS Kenya Power taken leave from Kitale? Long power blackouts and fluctuations are the order of the day in the town. Businesses that rely on electricity to run are losing millions daily. Some dealers are forced to incur extra costs to run their businesses by using diesel-generated power. Sadly, it is said domestic appliances are being destroyed by the thousands, yet no word on the cause of the blackouts is forthcoming from Kenya Power. Residents are now wondering whether Kitale is in Kenya.ODM AN Embu governor aspirant is said to be down to his last coin. The broke aspirant, after his campaigners mismanaged his campaign funds buying supporters to endorse him, is said to be borrowing money to finance his campaigns. The aspirant seems to have no genuine friends as no one has bothered to risk their hard-earned cash to finance his campaign. He is said to be agonising over whether to call a harambee or shelve the idea altogether. Corridors has been told that recently he was unable to pay for a hotel conference room in Nairobi, where he was to hold a mobilisation meeting. He had requested management to collect their money from the funds that would have been donated by perceived friends. The hotel gave him a firm No.THERE was drama last week when a second-term ODM lawmaker appeared before the IEBC Disputes Tribunal chaired by Wafula Chebukati with a fake nomination certificate and vehemently defended it. The MP, who the party had disowned despite being cleared earlier by the IEBC, produced the fake document to the Tribunal but the wording on it sold him out. It is said Chebukati&rsquo;s team was shocked and realised the certificate was fake after it indicated that the MP was contesting as a &ldquo;Member of Parliament&rdquo; and not &ldquo;Member of the National Assembly&rdquo;, as provided in the genuine certificates. The certificate was also written &ldquo;...for the Ward of...&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;...for the Constituency...&rdquo; The MP could be among victims of the reported Orange House cartels who have conned millions out of unsuspecting would-be cheats.