Telkom Kenya, the country&rsquo;s third largest telco by market share, rebranded yesterday with a promise to go big into connecting homes to high-speed internet. The telco, controlled by UK&rsquo;s Helios Investment Partners, said its home broadband offering will leverage on the 4G network which been rolled out in major towns over the last 12 months. They Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kakamega, Embu, Meru, Nyeri and Eldoret. &ldquo;This important shift in Telkom&rsquo;s strategic brand is in response to a need of reaching out to varied customers with the right products and solutions reflecting current market dynamics,&rdquo; chief executive Aldo Mareusesaid Mareuse. Helios took control of Telkom Kenya from France Orange in June 2016 after lengthy negotiations which first came to the limelight in October 2015. This was barely two months after the PE firm completed sale of its 24.99 per cent stake in Equity Bank for a reported $500 million (Sh51.66 billion under prevailing exchange rates). The company said it embarked on a series of transformation programmes to address target areas that were critical for change over in the last year, culminating in yesterday&rsquo;s rebranding from Orange to Telkom. It also made strategic investment in infrastructure and long-term investment in its human capital. &ldquo;All our actions over the past 12 months were designed to bring about holistic change to the customer&rsquo;s value proposition,&rdquo; Mareuse said. &ldquo;Our new brand, Telkom, brings with it freedom and choice to the consumer and prospective consumer.&rdquo; As part of re-branding celebrations, Telkom subscribers will enjoy free daily access to Whatsapp chat, voice call and video sharing, among other freebies. Chairman Eddy Njoroge said the Telkom has &ldquo;historical and economic importance... to the country and to Kenyans&rdquo;.&ldquo;We are committed to gradually restoring Telkom&rsquo;s relevance in Kenya&rsquo;s social and economic dynamic to transform it into a viable market player in the telecommunications sector and a profitable national asset,&rdquo; he said.