Turbo MP Jubilee candidate Kevin Okwara yesterday said he is confident of winning the seat.Two independent candidates were cleared by the IEBC to vie for the Turbo MP seat but pulled out of the race to back Janet Rotich, also an independent candidate.Okwara wants residents to adopt the six-piece voting pattern proposed by Jubilee but 14 aspirants who lost to him in the JP primaries are also backing Rotich.Okwara and ODM candidate David Songok met at the Idd celebrations in Eldoret town on Sunday, where they each sought the support of the Muslim community.Independent candidates Tony Kiprotich and Ishmael Songok have withdrawn from the race to back Rotich. They are among 14 aspirants who lost in the Jubilee primaries in the constituency that is DP William Ruto&rsquo;s home. They have defied the DP&rsquo;s plea to back Okwara. Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta toured Uasin Gishu county, asking those who lost in the primaries to support the Jubilee Party nominees. Okwara, from the Luhya community, won the primaries in the constituency largely inhabited by Kalenjins and other comunities. His victory caused protests from some of the losers who said he is not a local. &ldquo;I was elected by all communities in Turbo and I am confident they will still back me on August 8,&rdquo; Okwara said. But in what they termed as the Turbo Declaration, all previous aspirants, apart from incumbent MP Elisha Busienei, showed up in solidarity with Rotich, who has been Governor Jackson Mandago&rsquo;s political adviser. Ruto hails from Sugoi village in Turbo. Last week, he asked the aspirants who lost to back Okwara. Rotich will face Okwara and Songok along with three other candidates from other parties. One of the losers, Julius Kitur, led the others in declaring that Turbo constituency has its owners who cannot vote for Okwara. &ldquo;Uhuru, Ruto and Mandago have their votes safe in Jubilee, but as concerns MP, we will back Rotich as the independent candidate,&rdquo; Kitur said. It is not clear if Ruto will go back to campaign for Okwara, but analysts say he has a chance to win the seat through Jubilee. A political battle is expected mostly between Rotich and Okwara, with tribal politics expected to be at play.In the Jubilee primaries, Rotich was second with 4,816 votes against Okwara&rsquo;s 5,509. Analysts say Okwara could still win the seat through Jubilee, especially if he gets Ruto&rsquo;s backing.