Ismael Changawa recovered from a set down to sail through to the semi-finals after beating Rwandese Ernest Habiyambere 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 in the ongoing Britam Kenya Open tennis Championships at Nairobi Club.Having lost 6-4 to the Rwandese in the first set, the defending champion pulled a champion-esque display in the second set to floor the tiring Rwandese 6-3 in the second set to restore parity.A more impressive display in the determinant set saw the US-based player sail to the semis recording 6-1 win. Changawa will face another Kenyan Sheil Kotecha, who floored Albert Njogu in the semis.Changawa said: &ldquo;I had to play like a champion to win today&rsquo;s game. After falling behind in the opening set, I had to put more effort in the second and third. It wasn&rsquo;t an easy win. The guy was sharp and with amazing skills.&rdquo;After downing Njogu 6-1,6-4 in the quarter finals, Kotecha set a date with Changawa in what is deemed as the best clash in the championship. It will be the first career meeting between the duo with a lot at stake.Kotecha said: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s going to be a tough match and whoever will utilise his chances well will book a spot in the final. I have never played Changawa before but I have watched him play a number of matches. I hope for the best. He is a good guy with experience, strength and skills.&rdquo;In other quarter-finals clashes, former champion Duncan Mugabe eased past Tanzanian Emmanuel Nicodemo in sets of 6-1,6-2 to book a spot in the semis. The Ugandan will play against home-boy Ibrahim Yego who punched Rwandese Olivier Havugima 6-1, 6-0.A win for Mugabe will enable him rub off last edition&rsquo;s bad memories of disqualification on disciplinary grounds. Having beaten Yego twice before, the Ugandan will be seeking to carry this form into the encounter.He said: &ldquo;When I compare the previous editions I have taken part with this one, I believe my preparations are better. The players have improved and I no longer find easy wins. I have played Yego twice, winning both encounters and I hope to replicate the same in the semis. I know the guy I am playing is different from the past encounters and so I am bracing up for a tough game.&rdquo;