Governor Evans Kidero has ordered an audit of Weston Hotel staff after an outbreak of cholera at the hotel last week. He warned action would be taken if it is established it breached public health regulations and put people&rsquo;s lives in danger. He told Health executive Bernard Muia to initiate an investigation into the cholera case, and specifically look into the staff who handled food during the science conference at the hotel last week. "Weston Hotel takes full responsibility and accountability for the cholera outbreak. That is why we are re-examining all the workers at the hotel and the necessary penalties will be meted out if found that they did not comply with public health requirements," Kidero said.He dismissed claims food for the event had been prepared elsewhere and said both Weston Hotel and the alleged source of the infected food should be probed. "It is a public health requirement that all workers are subjected to a medical examination and get the necessary vaccinations twice a year, and we will be looking into the staff files to see if this was followed," the governor said. In an earlier statement from the hotel, general manager Michael Nzile said the Ministry of Health's Department of Disease Surveillance and the National Public Health Laboratories had conducted preliminary investigations regarding the reported cholera outbreak during the Health Scientific Conference. "Jointly with partners involved, we ensured that the situation was contained and followed procedures as guided by the Ministry of Health as we await their report on possible causes. We wish all the affected delegates a quick recovery," Nzile said. He assured guests the hotel remained diligent in its operations and confirmed that staff and food handlers were certified and continued to operate within the HACCP principles. The HACCP is a systematic approach to the identification, evaluation and control of food safety hazards based on seven principles. But at a church function in Kawangware, Nairobi, the governor observed that it was unfortunate for such a reputable establishment to have been linked to the disease, adding that stringent measures needed to be taken to stop a repeatHe said Kenya had been ranked third globally in desirability of places to visit and such incidents were unfortunate. "The county takes the issue of health and safety very seriously. Our reputation as a travel destination and conference destination is dependent on the safety and health of our visitors and workers as well as the food they serve," he said. Ten people were hospitalised, among them doctors, after eating at the hotel linked to Deputy President William Ruto, last Thursday. The 10, including two doctors, were attending an international science conference on lung disease.