Soaring food prices in this country cannot entirely be attributed to drought since other factors such as the rising cost of energy and transport also contributing factors. As much as droughts are complex in terms of accurate predictability, longevity and long-term effects, better planning could have saved the country from the political rush currently being witnessed. Food insecurity cannot be a quick fix, and any measures to contain the crisis need to go beyond mere reduction or control of food prices as that is only a symptom of a deeper underlying problem. Demand for food has expanded much over the years, more rapidly than the production, and the reality is that prices remain the single most significant component in Kenya&rsquo;s inflation indices. Rising food prices are generally a warning sign to impending food insecurity and, therefore, should not be casually tackled. As much as there is a global rise in food prices, the rise has not been at the same rate, for example in East Africa, and therefore the extent to which domestic markets are affected are based on how well or poor governments shield citizens from such surges. According to USAid, food security refers to access by all people at all times to enough food for active, healthy life. Going by this definition, it will be incumbent upon the legislature and the executive to broaden their scope to explore ways of fixing the food pricing and impending insecurity. These could involve engagement of policy instruments, including significant tariff reviews, limitations to food exports to increase domestic supply and supporting farmers in the short-term. Emergency food assistance is unsustainable and will not address this challenge, not even in the short-term &mdash; although the government has a responsibility to ensure no Kenyan succumbs to hunger. In the long-term, it would be prudent that inaccessibility of affordable credit facilities, insurance and inputs to farmers is looked at more comprehensively. Sadly, there are indications that inclusive economic transformation agenda, which would be a precursor to food security, has hit a snag. Food insecurity is so volatile that actions averting it often lead to more harm, especially when cheap imports flood the markets at the detriment of local farmers. This option would be perceived as a quick fix but may boomerang if other corrective actions are not simultaneously considered. At the very basic, access, availability and affordability in a sustainable way should be the fulcrum of conversations towards a more food secure and healthy Kenya. It is unfortunate that informal peasant systems and subsistent agriculture still define food productivity, with minimal extension services to support any advancement in a typical rural Kenya. By just getting prices right, the hunger problem will not have been addressed and, therefore, as the leadership of the country takes on this, collaboration between markets and the government will be instrumental for sustainability. To insure our country from failure, feeding our people has to be the dictum of our leadership. It will not be over-ambitious for the government and other players to work towards a long -term food policy regime that cushions all Kenyans through equitable distribution of wealth and income, consistent availability of food at stable prices and faster economic growth. All these will require that the country reduces its appetite for graft, discourage overdependence on antiquated farming methods and promote local food production. Improvement of transport systems towards convenient access to markets and storage infrastructure will then position agribusiness as the next gold mine for investors. It is good news that feeding the people is becoming politically sexy and among the priorities that dominated the recent World Economic Forum on Africa in Durban were agribusiness, access to energy and climate adaptation. Government&rsquo;s commitment to such could just pay off sooner than anticipated. Any government that works with farmers to accelerate food production to meet growing demands supports its own survival. Leaving everything to market forces, including the incentive to invest in agriculture, threatens the livelihoods of society.Perhaps it is time to focus on agricultural productivity as a key pillar to economic growth and passionately invest energy and resources as we have in the overly touted standard gauge railway project. Food production creates a more human face to economic development and has to be enshrined in our aspirations to a better country. A country that prudently manages its food production cannot succumb to a single drought and even if it were a prolonged one, other measures would cushion the already struggling poor at the bottom of the economic pyramid. Kenya is likely to lose on the little strides it has made towards Vision 2030 if rising commodity prices and the cost of living is not managed effectively in the near future.