With the possible exception of indentured labour and slavery, writing for a living in Kenya is the most financially unrewarding occupation one can find themselves occupied with. This is especially so if you&rsquo;re a freelance writer engaged in any kind of creative writing. One reason for this is that many Kenyans can&rsquo;t afford to buy books for leisure, ergo local publishers can&rsquo;t publish fiction that entertains because to do so would be bad for business.Another reason why creative writing is inadequately remunerating, the main reason I would say, is that just about every person who can read doesn&rsquo;t see much difference between what writers do, and what they, literate people that is, do; say when jotting down a shopping list. This means that most people who can spell think they can do a better job of writing than the writer they hired to do the job. And so, when the matter of paying well for writing services arises, non-writers find a writer&rsquo;s demand for good pay completely unreasonable. Writing isn&rsquo;t stringing words together to make a sentence. It&rsquo;s closing your eyes and thinking hard about what you want to say, finding the right words to say it, and linking the words to thoughts and emotions. Do you agree? ... I didn&rsquo;t think so, and that is why you throw a fit when I send you a quotation.There are easier ways to make a living than writing. If I was a mechanic, for instance, I suspect it would be a lot less troublesome making money. There&rsquo;s plenty of work to go around; hundreds of thousands of cars everywhere, most of them used imports and, therefore, in need of a mechanic from the moment they are bought. I&rsquo;d enjoy being a mechanic, I think. I don&rsquo;t mind getting my hands greasy, and I imagine it must feel good to take a car apart and then put it back together. But the best bit about being a mechanic is that everyone who comes to you in need of your services doesn&rsquo;t think they can do it themselves. And so, payment for work done is made with little or no argument, and with the sense that it is deserved, as mechanical work looks like hard work.The thing though about my being a mechanic is I have no talent for it, or the passion, and so I&rsquo;m stuck at being a writer, expected to work for pennies, but buoyed by the encouraging words of novelist Jane Smiley: &ldquo;I believe you either love the work or love the rewards. Life is a lot easier if you love the work.&rdquo;This is to say if you&rsquo;re a writer, then it better be for love, for there&rsquo;s not much reward in it, especially financial.Should it matter, though, if there&rsquo;s no money in what one loves doing, what one is passionate about, whatever it is? Some would say yes, it should, bills have to be paid. Others, no it should not. Writer Arthur Miller says: &ldquo;Don't be seduced into thinking that that which does not make a profit is without value."I guess what it boils down to is, what do you value more: the work you do, or what it pays? &hellip;There&rsquo;s no wrong answer.