Running elective politics in a state where democracy of voting doesn&rsquo;t result in numbers is regrettably a setback to democracy in Kenya.It is under this premise that Mr. Odinga filed one of the highest profiled affidavits in the Kenyan history: &ldquo;I Raila Odinga, a resident of Nairobi and whose address, for purposes of this Petition, is care of Oraro and do solemnly make oath and state as follows:&rdquo; the preamble of the petition reads.Written under the cornerstone of highly recommended scholars, the denouncing statement followed: &ldquo;I verily believe that the First Respondent, in its undertakings to establish and conduct the 2013 elections, failed the people of Kenya, failed Kenya in the international arena&hellip;&rdquo; This legal artillery launched on 15th, March 2013 automatically became part of the powerful elite statecrafts &ldquo;reset strategy&rdquo;.The nasty feeling started gripping the Kenyan political scene and &ldquo;the electoral commission seemed to be bending the election rules in favor of statecraft&rsquo;s candidate?&rdquo; Raila&rsquo;s presidential ambition was again under blackmail.In a twisting contrast, the Jubilee alliance factionaries and power perverts working under the advisory of the power craftsmen rushed to the court to counter and render Mr. Odinga&rsquo;s application redundant. Mr. Dennis Itumbi, the president elect&rsquo;s spin master argued that &ldquo;in calculating the percentage attributable to each presidential candidate, they erroneously used a formula that included rejected votes as a basis of calculating the total percentage&rdquo;. Despite so much faith in the Supreme Court Judge, Dr. Willy Mutunga, there was no possibility that anything better would come out of the cases before him. To play the psychology of power and authoritarianism, the state rushed the publishing and Gazette notification certifying the &ldquo;new state house ownership&rdquo; as president elect &ndash; Uhuru Kenyatta, and the following day, images of Mr. Uhuru, Mr. Ruto and government machinery featured in front pages of the newspapers, confirming that it was a done deal.On Saturday 16th March, a peaceful campaign famously known as democracy-on-trial was launched; president Obama compared Kenya to Syria. Mr. Odinga&rsquo;s faith in the judiciary, democracy and fair play continued to wreck his ambition as the president of Kenya. The actions of the Jubilee alliance continued to reinforce the belief that that they enjoyed certain privileges with the court. There were zero chances that Mr. Odinga would outwit the power maniacs who were spending sleepless nights trying to manipulate the petition in favor of Jubilee. There was no possibility that Mr. Odinga&rsquo;s methodology of approach would challenge the extraneous influence of the power elite who had robbed him of previous elections. Mr. Odinga must have become a victim of his best moves.He could only win the Kenyan election if his foot soldiers were better than all the states craftsmen. As Professor James Kiyiapi would put it, &ldquo;The fundamental mistake that Raila made was to declare the last election a &lsquo;two horse race.&rsquo; He made it easy for anything to happen.&rdquo;Six-member Judges sitting inside the porch of the old judiciary building took it to themselves: Justice Dr. Willy Mutunga, Justice J.B Ojwang, Njoki Ndungu, Smokin Wanjala, Philip Kiptoo Tunoi and Justice Mohamed Khadhar Ibrahim. In the faces of Kenyan, there was the fear of possibility of ethnic strife.The elites are fully aware that citizens have never thought of how decisions of an election are made beyond their votes. The proclivity to peace and morality in the citizen&rsquo;s power of votes is always the advantage that the political elite take to practice election immorality. Under this patronage, the country dies a slow death of democratic mortality.To maintain the mentality of vigil among its citizen and of impartiality in effecting regime change, the elite concocted an ideology of theatrics at the judiciary to convince the citizens of a sober outcome. This was noticeable due to the environment of judicial restrictions and subversions.Clearly, and irreversibly so, Mr. Kenyatta had assumed the instruments of power. This was a confirmation of several other things: for example, it was a confirmation of Mr. Kenyatta&rsquo;s predecessor&rsquo;s continued silence on his choice of candidate. The courts were to spend a short period as provided in the constitution to determine the validity of the election of Uhuru Kenyatta.In the meantime, Uhuru was already enjoying security briefings. The petition was neither political nor did it serve the interests of any individual. All Kenyans were waiting for the Supreme Court to pronounce justice on the whole electoral process.The greatest question was whether the court was prepared to take this challenge and restore the confidence of the citizens in it. It also mattered whether the court&rsquo;s political and societal biases would play any part. Several questions were lingering in the minds of the people mostly about the burden on Justice Willy Mutunga. Pressure was mounting and it seemed that Kenya was in the verge of breaking sliding back into peril.Justice Willy Mutunga was the center of attention. In the public perception, Willy Mutunga was seen as a man of great intellectual grasp and depth. A fair judgment was expected from this man. Anyone who has worked close to him was confessing how incorruptible he was. He was being seen as the modern-day Solomon. He was expected to guide the members of his decisive regimen on the correct verdict.At this historic moment in Kenya, ethnicity was growing stronger all over the republic. The political games and intrigues were beginning to build up. The conspirators were busy somewhere developing their Machiavellian conspiracies. Kenyans were in the dark and in the hands of a legal battle which would take an uncomfortable period. It was a legal battle between CORD and Jubilee Alliance, the so-called reformers versus non-reformers, the conservative against the liberal.It was not going to be a contest only between Raila and Uhuru Kenyatta or between the senior counsel George Oraro for CORD and Fred Ngatia for Jubilee, but rather between the court and the Kenyans. Not surprisingly, there was ethnicity even in the way these luminaries chose their lawyers.CORD chose top lawyers, led by George Oraro, one of the longest serving lawyers in Kenya; honest and with an astute grasp of the law. Oraro was an internationally recognized lawyer who had been hired by the Orange Democratic Movement to present the former Cabinet Minister, Henry Kosgey, one of the infamous &ldquo;Ocampo Six&rdquo;. Kethi Kilonzo, young, composed and eloquent, was another lawyer. She became a great point of attraction to many people especially the men, young and old alike who were all raving in the social media about one legal night stand in her court. But she wasn&rsquo;t humbly submitting even to be an amicus in Facebook nor Twitter. In short, she inspired many young women. She was a super woman who didn&rsquo;t want to &ldquo;rehearse life&rdquo; be it in court or anywhere else.There was Aurellio Rebello, who was named mzungu. And then Ahmednasir Abdullahi, the former chairman of the Law Society of Kenya, a fiery and straight man, popularly referred to as the Grand Mullah. He was the leading counsel in the investigation in the Waki commission, which investigated Kenya&rsquo;s 2007/08 post-election violence. Katwa Kigen, represented William Ruto. He is sluggish looking but quite an intelligent legal scholar with peculiar reasoning. Njoroge Rigeru, a great lawyer with extremely admirable English helped to upscale a case thought to be less important at the presidential petition. He is specialized in company law. Present also was Githu Muigai, the Kenyan Attorney General. A very eloquent and witty man who is specialized in public law.There was also Mohammed Nyaoga, a senior partner in Mungai Advocates and a highly respected lawyer in the corporate world. All lawyers were determined to make history by all means.Everyone had high hopes in the final judgment. Kenyan were sure that it would be the fairest political judgment in Kenya yet. This case was determined to change and earn Kenya a name in the map of the world. This was revolution time.On Wednesday 13th March, the Prime Minister Raila Odinga, shocked the world with a fling of fresh evidence in the petition. This entailed fresh access and investigation of IEBC information technology system. The evidence was to bring a fresh twist to the petition which had been previously filed at the Supreme Court. With serious incompetence in the handling of Biometric voter registration kits, the number of actual voters turned out to be higher than the number of registered voters. Claims of bribed officials and several serious election conspiracy misconducts in the IEBC system were rife. It was close to impossible for the IEBC to allow any &ldquo;intruder&rdquo; access to data for forensic audit of their system.Mr. Raila Odinga through his lawyer, senior counsel George Oraro argued that for them to determine the reality behind the failure of their electronic system, it was essential to get this permission.On this, George Oraro said, &ldquo;IEBC has given conflicting reasons for failure of all the electronic system. There is urgent need for parties to place empirical forensic evidence to help the Supreme Court in making a decision.&rdquo; Oraro was seeking extra-confidential information: the name of users and passwords assigned to all users at each IEBC offices and places of operation.The Commission was given access to &ldquo;all receipts and invoices for each of the hardware or software materials they bought to conduct electronic and manual transfer of the results.&rdquo; This application which was supposed to separate the &ldquo;truth and false allegation&rdquo; was the gist of all of it. It was scheduled to be heard when the six judges in the Supreme Court sat for the first time to the mention of this most important petition in Kenyan election.In response, the election body filed its response to the CORD petition through its lawyer Mohamed Nyaoga who was not willing to &ldquo;engage in public debate over the case.&rdquo; They were extending the rule of exploitation of the constitutional &ldquo;freedom of expression&rdquo; while CORD was willing to &ldquo;tell all to the public.&rdquo; Raila and Uhuru began to engage in a war of words. Mr. Kenyatta, who by then was already the president-elect, was already enjoying the special government machinery units and air force plane, told Mr. Odinga that, &ldquo;the matter is in court and we should not talk in a manner that might incite Kenyans.&rdquo; Raila criticized the use of government property in such a manner by the president-elect pointing out that, &ldquo;he should desist from using state resources and not behave as if he is already president.&rdquo; Both sides were blowing out of proportion. Mr. Nyaoga, the IEBC lawyer exuded confidence over the announcement of Mr. Kenyatta as the duly elected president of Kenya, saying that, &ldquo;with these documents, we will demonstrate that we conducted the election fairly.&rdquo; One of the greatest questions then was if the IEBC helped Uhuru win the election in round one.