Former Labour CS Kazungu Kambi has intensified his vote-hunt in the race for Kilifi governor.He has promised to start a county bank, where women will benefit through low interest loans. &ldquo;There will be no more fundraisers for Kilifi women,&rdquo; he said in Matano Manne, Ganze constituency, on Saturday.Women, Kambi said, form the backbone of any society and should be taken care of. &ldquo;Kilifi is no different,&rdquo; he said. Kambi said if elected, his government will ask the county assembly to pass a bill to start the process of forming a county bank. The Central Bank of Kenya Act requires that for such a venture, a Sh1 billion deposit will have to be made to the CBK.&ldquo;Accounts for such funds as the Uwezo Fund, Affirmative Action Fund and the likes will be opened at the Kilifi bank. In the process, the bank will make profits and be able to give loans at subsidised interest rates,&rdquo; Kilifi senator hopeful Lucas Maitha added. The bank will help everyone equally, but will also be an opening for women, he said.similar to JKP&rsquo;s failed planThe plan is similar to that of the Jumuiya Ya Kaunti za Pwani, which had a plan to start a regional bank, where all the six counties will be able to borrow money at low interest rates.The idea collapsed after the governors fell out over political differences.Kambi said the idea is workable in Kilifi county. Women form the majority of 420,276 registered voters in Kilifi county. The choice of Maureen Mwangovya as Kambi&rsquo;s running mate was meant to appeal to the women.provide waterOn Saturday, Kambi said together with like-minded leaders, he will ensure there is free flowing water in Kilifi county. Water scarcity is a major problem in Kilifi county and women bear the brunt of the problem, because they are the ones who walk for long distances in search of the precious commodity. &ldquo;Kilifi residents will have to drink clean water to their fill before we sell the water to other counties,&rdquo; Kambi said.The Baricho Waterworks, the major source of water in Kilifi county, supplies water to Mombasa, most of the time at the expense of Kilifi residents, whose taps are almost always dry.Kambi said his administration will ensure there is a fully equipped Level Five hospital in all the seven constituencies in Kilifi. &ldquo;Women will no longer be transferred to the Coast General Hospital or Kenyatta National Hospital for surgery in case of complications,&rdquo; he said.