A group of politicians mainly from Mt Kenya region have formed the UhuRuto Express team to mobilise voters to reelect Jubilee leaders. The team is comprised of more than 40 serving MPs, governors and senators, who will not be defending their seats but will dedicate their resources to drive a 100 per cent voter turnout in Jubilee strongholds. The group was launched at Kamukunji grounds in Nyeri town on Sunday after a mobilisation roadshow running from Mukurwe-ini, Othaya, Tetu and Nyeri Town. The team leader, Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau, said they want to ensure UhuRuto win round one of the presidential election with more than 70 per cent votes. &ldquo;The team will also seek to heal any wounds caused by the party primaries by re-focusing the attention and energies of its members and Jubilee supporters on the ultimate prize &ndash; the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. UhuRuto Express will achieve this by bringing clarity on its complementary role in the Jubilee presidential election,&rdquo; Kamau said. Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire said the group will tap into the deepgrassroots experience of its members, strong networks with like-minded forces and great people of goodwill to launch a massive campaign to ensure the Jubilee wins on August 8. BETTER CHANCE OF WINNING &ldquo;Indeed, that President Uhuru won in Round 1 in the 2013 election without a campaign eff ort similar to UhuRuto Express only means his victory will even be more resounding this time round,&rdquo; Othaya MP Mary Wambui said. The team said it will closely engage voters through public rallies, leaders&rsquo; meetings and the media&ldquo;Despite the fact that we shall not be defending our seats after the nom-inations, we still retain substantial infl uence in the grassroots. We now dedicate ourselves fully to unite with the nominated [contestants] and indeed the principals of the party to mobilise our people in pursuit of the one single goal &ndash; a 100 per cent voter turnout in our strongholds,&rdquo; Subukia MP Nelson Gaichuhie said. Other leaders who attended the meeting were Gichugu MP Njogu Barua, Nakuru woman representative Mary Mbugua and Molo MP Joseph Kiuna. They urged residents to turn up on Election Day and vote for Jubilee so they do not to let the opposition take over the government. The team had earlier attended mass at Othaya Catholic Church.