A former Defence minister has condemned the shooting to death of 100 camels in Tana River and Kitui counties. The camels, some of which were pregnant, died in front of horrified villagers who described the attack as sickening. Yusuf Haji, former Defence minister and now Garissa Senator, said the officers who shot the animals must be arrested and charged. &ldquo;The shooting is unprecedented and amounts to deliberately starving people to death. The officers concerned must be arrested,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone. Police killed the animals when they moved to quell a longstanding border dispute between residents of Mwingi in Kitui and those of Basin Hargeisa, Tana River. sprayed with bulletsHerders said security officers in two vehicles and a lorry descended on their camels at noon and indiscriminately sprayed them with bullets. Haji said families with no food rely entirely on camel milk. He said the Somali community values camels even more than human life. &ldquo;The 100 camels can feed 1,000 people. There must be full compensation for families that lost their animals,&rdquo; he said.One camel owner, Mohamed Billow, said he does not understand why security officers killed his animals. &ldquo;They could have arrested or even killed me if they wanted, but not descend on my animals,&rdquo; he said.police not neutralBura MP Ali Wario said security officers entrusted to maintain peace are now turning against one community by maiming their source of livelihood and torching houses. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m at my lowest moment of my leadership. This is not what I was anticipating from the state or by extension, Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery. Lives and livelihoods are not separated in pastoralism. You can&rsquo;t use bullets to kill animals,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Our expectation is security from a neutral national government. Is this the reward the government is giving us for Ramadhan? Somebody somewhere must answer for this.&rdquo;Wario said there are 28 counties with border disputes and asked why Tana River and Kitui are being treated differently. Council of Governors&rsquo; chairman Josephat Nanok has condemned the shooting.&ldquo;This shooting is unacceptable. It amounts to sabotaging of economic lives of those affected,&rdquo; he said.