Rats generally aren't welcome when it comes to being inside your home, and it's the same for this farmer's barn. A farmer in northwestern China caught a rat stealing corn from his barn and decided to punish it. The animal's front limbs were tied to a string and were beaten with a whip for over a minute. The whole ordeal was caught on camera and posted online today. The scared rodent made a loud squeak as it struggled to dodge the beating and can be seen jumping up and down a few times in the video footage.The clip is believed to be filmed in a local farm at Yulin, Shaanxi Province.It was posted on a local account on Weibo, a Twitter-like social media, today. The man was giving the animal a lesson as he spoke in 'Shaanbei', a local dialect from the region. 'I have noticed you for a few months and finally caught you! Can't believe you ate all the corn, they belonged to other villagers! And how can I pay them back?' said the man. It's unclear whether or not the rat survived the ordeal. On Chinese social media, many people believed that although the farmer had reasons to punish the animal, it was not enough to abuse the rat. 'Though it is vermin, it's not necessary to torture the animal like this,' commented 'zigenliao'.Another user suggested that he should have just killed the animal rather than torturing it. 'This video is just teaching more people about animal abuse,' said 'Krystalzhouzhou'.This is not the first time someone in China has been pictured abusing vermin in order to teach them a lesson for stealing. Pictures posted on Weibo in January showed a rat tied up to a trolley in southern China.A piece of paper attached to the animal's body explained that it had been caught stealing rice at a convenience store.The note read: 'Huh, is this the best you could do? Even if you beat me to death, I would not admit that the rice at your home had been stolen by me.' The Shenzhen Traffic Police posted three smiling face emojis on its official account on Weibo in response to the picture.