When the National Government Constituencies Development Fund (NG-CDF) Board and Management visited Sinonin Secondary School in Baringo, students were excited. Their teachers had informed them of the visit and they were well organised. Ready to welcome the guests to their school. As they clapped and sang in unison, Samuel Kiptoo just stared. He was disturbed on where his next meal and that of his grandfather would come from. The 17-year-old orphan, who was the only child of a single mother, is in form three.He stays with his ageing grandfather in Langlang, a remote village in Eldama Ravine, Baringo county. BURSARY FUNDING RAREBefore we began the interview, Kiptoo sat at his desk, lost in deep thought. The previous day he had been sent home for school fees, but he was recalled the following morning."I was happy to be asked back to school, but I now know it was because of you people. I am sure after you leave I will be asked to go home and look for money to pay school fees," he said, wearing a sad face. His mother died when he was a baby and his grandfather, who could be paying his school fees, relies on him due to old age. "My grandfather is old and sickly and just stays at home. I am the one who makes sure he has food and is taken care of," Kiptoo said.On weekends and when he is sent home for fees, Kiptoo spends his days tilling people's land, where he earns Sh55 per day. "I don't know how to manage, and I am slowly losing hope," he says.He works until he puts together Sh500 or Sh1,000, which he takes to the school to be allowed back. "I have a balance of Sh20,000. How long will it take me to work so as to earn that money, and when will I even learn?" he said, adding that the balance piles up every term.He has been applying for bursary funding but he has only been given once, when he was in form one. Head teacher Denis Awuor agreed that bursary funding is needed since the community within is needy. "This school has given hope to the community, but we still have a challenge with students, many of whom cannot afford to pay school fees," he said. Kiptoo's hope solely lies on bursary funds, as he hopes that one day, he will hold a KCSE certificate on his hands. "I am determined to finish my education and leave the village life," he said.He wants to become a journalist with the hope that one day, when he is stable with all challenges behind him, he will write down his story on how he managed to conquer.ABANDONED BY MOTHERLike Kiptoo, Dominic Kibet had been sent home for lack of school fees two days earlier but was recalled a day after. "I think the head teacher called me back because of the visitors, and I am certain the moment they leave, I might be sent back home," said the 17-year-old, who is in form four.The firstborn in a family of three is the breadwinner of his siblings since their father died and their mother took off last year. "I don't know why mum left us. She just packed her clothes one day in February last year and we have never seen her again," he said.Dominic says their mother has never called them. "I feel betrayed by the person who brought me to this world. I wish I could know what she thinks wherever she is, if she is still alive," he said. He says his mother did almost nothing to sustain them. "Mum was always drunk and we used to quarrel a lot, since I couldn't understand the addiction," he said. Having seen what alcohol abuse can do, Dominic says he would never want to know how alcohol tastes. In form two, Dominic was sent home and because they could not raise the amount needed in school. He was forced to stay home for more than a year, as he did manual jobs to help him earn school fees. "I came back to school last year, and from the savings I had, I managed to pay part of the fees."Dominic says the head teacher allowed him back after he promised to make arrangements on how he will be paying the fees. "He also advised me to apply for bursary, which I did, and I got Sh6,000 last year," he said.To sustain themselves, Dominic and his younger siblings, who are in primary school, work at a sawmill on weekends. "That is how we get money to cater for our food and pay fees with the little that remains," he said.Being a caretaker to his siblings has not been easy. "I allocate them evening duties before we leave for school every morning," he said, adding that they at times get into conflicts. He wakes early to ensure their few family chicken are fed, and to have time to cover the 7km to school. He now hopes against hope that the NG-CDF will come across for him and give him bursary to complete his education."I am in form four and this is the most crucial time for me, since exams will be done in a few months. I don't want to miss any lessons and I am hopeful that the CDF will allocate me some money so I can remain in school."Sinonin Secondary School was started in 2013 through CDF funding. According to the sub-county director of education Richard Boyo, the school was started after an agreement with the community and the CDF board. The other nearest school is 14km away, and that led to many children not accessing secondary education. With 112 students, the school has four teachers posted by TSC, with five others employed by the board.