Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth yesterday announced he will supply free clean water to city homes if he is elected.Speaking in Nairobi&rsquo;s Harambee estate, where he took his door-to-door campaigns, he said the free clean water will be supplied within one year after he takes over.Kenneth is running as an independent candidate.He said all Nairobi water comes from Gatanga and having been the area MP, he understands the dynamics of the city water sector.He blamed cartels for colluding with the current leadership to block water at various points so they can have business opportunities.&ldquo;I grew up in Nairobi when water was readily available and taps were ever flowing. We will employ the youth being used by politicians to block pipes at various points and give them an opportunity in the sector as they help in supplying water in all Nairobi households,&rdquo; Kenneth said.He said he will ensure all the city health facilities under the county government are rehabilitated and stocked . &ldquo;My administration will make sure all health facilities are properly stocked and rehabilitated within one year of my tenure ,&rdquo; Kenneth said. On Education, he promised to restore the lost glory of the schools once in office. &ldquo;I went to a City Council school and it is disturbing the same schools are currently performing dismally and parents are forced to pay heavily for education in private schools,&rdquo; Kenneth said. Last month, Kenneth picked former Harambee Stars winger Dan Shikanda as his running mate.He said he chose Shikanda because they will work cohesively. &ldquo;I did not want to have a patchwork of a team where a candidate picks someone to sanitise him or make an equation,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;I took time and talked to many people. I have decided, after a long search, that the best candidate for the position of deputy governor is Shikanda.&rdquo;Kenneth said he will decentralise services in the city for efficiency.&ldquo;We want to make Nairobi more friendly by collecting garbage. You pay for collection of garbage but it is not collected. That is why for those who have lived in Nairobi, there has never been a bigger failure than [Governor Evans] Kidero&rsquo;s administration,&rdquo; he said.Kenneth said if given five more years, Kidero &ldquo;will bring Nairobi to its knees just as he chewed Mumias like a sugarcane&rdquo;.