With 13 days to the last edition of the IAAF World under 18 championships to be held in Nairobi, the event is eagerly awaited at Mogonga Mixed Secondary School in Kisii County.The hitherto unknown school will be the focus of the world when four members of the Kenyan team who are students at the institution take to the field starting July 12-16 at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The four students&mdash;Elijah Matayo (100m, 200m), Mary Moraa (200m, 400m), David Kisotu (400m hurdles) and Joseph Nyakundi (shot put) will represent the country during the championships. Other members of the Kenyan team Phillian Kerubo (100m hurdles), a student at Nyabururu Girls and Peninah Akoth (shot put) of Osingo Mixed also trained at the school which hosted a camp during April, August and December holidays. &ldquo;There is a lot of excitement here and we are looking forward to the championship,&rdquo; said Mogonga principal Haron Onchong&rsquo;a who is also a coach. Retired sprinter Charles Obwogi is also a coach at the camp alongside Moses Saiti.Onchong&rsquo;a has backed the athletes to make podium finishes during the five-day championship. Moraa, who is an orphan is a Form 3 student at the school and triple East Africa Secondary schools champion. She may, however, not defend her titles in Gulu, Uganda after finishing third in Mombasa during the national championships. She has a personal best of 24:13 in 200 and 54:30 in 400m.&ldquo;The board of management gave her a scholarship alongside the other athletes who reached the nationals. I&rsquo;m seeing her win gold in 400m and she is likely to finish in the medal bracket in 200m,&rdquo; said Onchong&rsquo;a, the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) Kisii County treasurer.Matayo, also an East Africa Secondary Schools champion in 200m surrendered his national titles in Mombasa. Onchong&rsquo;a said the reserved Matayo wants to be the best in his disciplined in the World. &ldquo;He is self motivated and works very hard. With training, the sky is the limit,&rdquo; said Onchong&rsquo;a. Matayo has a personal best of 22:7 in 200m and 10:77 in 100m.