Governor Evans Kidero has asked the IEBC to punish Nairobi politicians campaigning after 6pm.Some politicians are reportedly burning the midnight oil, mobilising supporters and strategising ahead of the August 8 polls."The law is clear. Those campaigning at night should face the consequences," Kidero said on Sunday.He accused the IEBC of applying double standards in executing laws guiding the poll.Kidero said the high stakes in the election are not reason enough for politicians to break law.Among those running for Nairobi governor are Kidero and Senator Mike Sonko (Jubilee Party) and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth (independent).The governor appealed to residents to reelect him, saying he is the right person and can be trusted with the future of Nairobians."Wakati wa Christmas, nyinyi huenda ushago. Saa zingine mnaachia jirani watoto wenu. Sasa, assume mimi na wale wengine we are your neighbours, who would you trust with your child [sic]?" he asked during a rally in Makadara.This loosely translates to: "During Christmas, you go to the villages and sometimes leave your children with your neighbours. Assume the other contestants and I are your neighbours...who would you trust with your child)"Obviously you will trust me because the other people...you know how they are. Utapata mtoto wako na Muguka and pombe chini ya kitanda (You will find your child hiding miraa and alcohol under the bed)."Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke, woman representative aspirant Esther Passaris, senator hopeful Edwin Sifuna, branch ODM chairman and Makadara MP aspirant George Aladwa and several aspirants accompanied Kidero.The team visited Viwandani, Harambee, Hamza, Mutindwa and Buru Buru in Eastlands, before holding a rally in Makongeni.Aladwa dared the Jubilee administration to arrest NASA leader Raila Odinga over claims he incited Kenyans."Who, in his right mind can dare arrest Raila if indeed we want peaceful elections?" he posed. "We are warning Jubilee...Raila is not their match. Let them arrest Raila...we will all go to the streets."