Most of us are familiar with the story of an old man who had many sons, who were always falling out with one another. He had often, but to no purpose, exhorted them to live together in harmony.One day he called them round him, and producing a bundle of sticks, bade them try each in turn to break it across. Each put forth all his strength, but the bundle resisted all their efforts.Then, cutting the cord that bound the sticks together, he told his sons to break them separately. This was done with the greatest ease. &ldquo;See, my sons,&rdquo; exclaimed he, &ldquo;the power of unity! Bound together by brotherly love, you may defy almost every mortal ill; divided, you will fall prey to your enemies.&rdquo;Today, Kenya could be likened to this family. We have officially started the campaigns for the August 8 election and, already, we are witnessing strife. Every day, politicians from the main political divides hurl barbs at each other.Thus, we end up having an even more divided country that cannot see things in the same way. We forget that when the country develops, it benefits all of us and when it burns, we burn with it without discrimination.Whenever we get into political competition, we appear to forget that this country belongs to all of us and is our only home. If anything goes wrong and the country gets into a crisis, as in 2008, it will not choose which side we belong to, we will all be affected.As President Uhuru Kenyatta keeps reminding us, &ldquo;Siasa si Uadui&rdquo;. We should strive to live under this banner. Political competition must remain just that and should not be used to pit Kenyans against each other as some politicians are doing.Kenyans must refuse to be used by politicians who are seeking personal gain by dividing people along tribal, religious and political lines. As politicians motivate the youth with money to cause disturbances and violence, tell them to lead from the front and have their own children in the front line.After the 2007 election, we saw what can happen when we allow politicians to use us in the pursuit of selfish interests. As we vowed after losing 1,200 Kenyans and 600,000 others were displaced, never again will blood be shed in the name of politics.During the 2007-08 post-election violence, young people were rallied by politicians to turn against their own neighbours &ndash; people they had lived with for years. As a result, there was death, destruction of property and creation of divides &ndash; some of which we are yet to bridge to this day.We must always remember that in the end, God will choose the leaders that will govern this country. All Kenyans need to do is to cast their vote peacefully with the constant reminder ringing in our heads that this is our only home.Politicians must desist from using tribe to divide Kenyans through the unfortunate calls of &ldquo;We versus Them&rdquo; as the driver of the political competition.This is a country of more than 40 tribes, which have lived in harmony for years and should not be divided for political selfishness. All tribes belong to one Kenya and we must all shun tribalism and focus on nationalism as the driver of our prosperity.Every Kenyan, regardless of their tribe, religious or political affiliation, is looking up to a country where they will meet all their aspirations. Kenyans want a peaceful environment where they can carry on their lives without disruption.This is, thus, a rallying call to promote peace and unity during the campaigns and into the election, where we must vote wisely and peacefully. Kenyans must quit pulling in different directions and focus on a cohesive way of uniting our strengths to deal with our challenges. The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda