Gor Mahia head coach Jose Marcelo &lsquo;Ze Maria&rsquo; Ferreira has resigned, days after the team won the inaugural Sport Pesa Super Cup.The Brazilian presented a resignation letter to the club&rsquo;s chairman Ambrose Rachier requesting to resign from the position he assumed last year in March.Ze Maria, however, declined to mention his reasons for resignation though club sources revealed that he differed with the club management over pertinent issues affecting the club. Rachier said the Brazilian left because of reasons well known to him and denied rumours doing round that he was frustrated and he had gone without pay for some months.&ldquo;He didn&rsquo;t mention his reason(s) for resignation. He presented the letter to my office in the morning and we could not stop him from taking the move. He had our support and his dues were paid on time.&rdquo;Asked about the tactician&rsquo;s holidays prior to the Sportpesa Super Cup tournament, Rachier said: &ldquo;He requested for the holiday and he was in his usual moods. He later returned for the finals and clearly you could see he was in good moods and delivered as per our agreement.&rdquo;Ze Maria joined the club in March last year, replacing Frank Nutall. He guided the team to winning the DStv Super Cup after beating Tusker in the final but placed second in the Premier League, behind brewers. Before his departure, Ze Maria had overseen the first leg of the Premier League with his charges finishing on top of the standings. He is fresh from winning the Sportpesa Super Cup against AFC Leopards in a final that saw the winner pocket Sh3 million.In his letter, Ze Maria is said to have thanked the club&rsquo;s management for giving him the opportunity to coach Gor. &ldquo;I must also mention the great pride I had in training this giant club, the biggest in Kenya,&rdquo; he said.I had the privilege of winning some trophies, losing others, seeing many (talented people) grow and seeing them playing for the national team. Thank you very much. I will always be a fan of you,&rdquo; he said.The exit leaves Zedekiah Otieno in charge of the team though he will not assume the role of the head coach. &ldquo;Otieno will be in charge of the team as we look for Ze Maria&rsquo;s replacement. Meanwhile, the position of head coach remain vacant and interested candidates can apply for the job before the transfer period comes to closure. We will be holding a meeting soon to put things clear on the plans for the second leg as well as issues in the management,&rdquo; said the Rachier.