Was ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi (pictured)very confident he would be named the National Super Alliance presidential flagbearer to face off with President Uhuru Kenyatta at the August 8 polls? Right. The ANC is the only party out of the five NASA affiliate parties with a manifesto. It is said ODM, despite its leader Raila Odinga being named NASA&rsquo;s flagbearer, did not, and to this day does not have a tangible manifesto on its agenda for Kenyans. Raila&rsquo;s running mate Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s Wiper party has no manifesto either. This could be one reason why ANC launched its manifesto on Wednesday, to show how Musalia was fully prepared to lead the country once named the flagbearer.Is there something more that the National Super Alliance brigades know about the Sh2.5 billion ballot papers printing contract given to the Dubai-based Al Ghurair firm that is not in the public domain? Well, we are told some NASA insiders may have details showing Sh200 million in kickback was given by the firm to win the tender. It is said they are also privy to details on how the money was wired into an offshore account. The unbowed NASA foot soldiers have threatened to spill the beans. If they stick to their word, there will be a firestorm.A senior procurement officer in one of the ministries was recently heard bragging in a five-star hotel how he funded a governor candidate in the city, who hails from his region, to clinch the coveted seat by all means. Our mole tells Corridors the officer strongly believes that if the candidate wins the seat, he will be favoured in striking many lucrative business deals in the city using his name as the county boss. The officer, whose latest promotion raised eyebrows, is said to be living large. It is said he has acquired a Toyota VX, a new house in the posh area of Lavington, and is of late evading many of his friends he used to meet before moving his office from the KICC to one of the buildings along Koinange Street.Word has it that a senior policewoman in Kisumu, who is protected by her male regional boss, is using a seized vehicle. It is said the policewoman took the vehicle from the police station&rsquo;s compound, changed its ignition and repainted it before giving it to her Nairobi-based civil servant husband, who has been using it freely without minding the consequences. It is said the car was seized from the owner&rsquo;s driver, who escaped in the process after sensing danger because he was ferrying bhang. Although the bhang remains in the the exhibits&rsquo; store, the female cop has appropriated the vehicle for herself. People aware of the cop&rsquo;s move to &lsquo;own&rsquo; a vehicle that is under investigations are wondering why the security agencies have not taken any action against her.