Agriculture CS Willy Bett has asked Kenyans not to panic as another maize consignment of 42,000 metric tonnes has arrived. Bett, who received the shipment at the Mombasa Port on Friday, reiterated that Kenya has enough maize, despite a shortage that has caused maize flour to become scarce. "The only challenge is to ensure the maize reaches millers on time," the Cabinet Secretary said. He noted that since the first importation two months ago, the country has received more than 143,000 metric tonnes. Another 260,000 metric tonnes is expected in July. "Kenyans do not need to panic. The rush to buy all stock from the supermarket shelves should not be there because Kenya has enough maize now." Read: Maize import from Mexico arrives but no relief on Unga prices until July Bett said several ships will dock at the port with maize in them. He added there is the possibility of extending the importation window from July 31 to Kenya's next harvest. Parliament passed a bill for the importation of subsidised maize in May. The period is to end on July 31. "We still have a challenge after the fall of the army worm. We do not know when our next harvest will be. Therefore, we might need to extend the importation period." The CS further said they are working with small millers at the grassroots so they can also receive the grains. He noted they must also get involved because of the subsidised unga in many areas. "They (small millers) have to agree that they will not sell the maize at more than Sh35 per kilogramme," he said. Bett said that to control cartels that have been hoarding maize, they have deployed government officials to the port, Grain Bulk Handlers and the millers. Grain Bulk handles all maize imported to the country. The officials' work is to ensure the smooth supply of flour to supermarkets. Bett said they have also deployed the Standard Gauge Railway freight train and several trucks to speed the process of offloading the maize at the port. Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa, who was at the port, said the government has deployed enough security officers to ensure trucks transporting maize reach their destinations without hiccups. "There are enough officers escorting the trucks and the train," he said. More on maize: 'You have to trust us': CS Bett explains maize shortage to Agriculture committee Also read: Bett in tight corner as MPs demand truth on maize shortage, grilling adjourned