There&rsquo;s nothing better than the perfect selfie, especially one which the world agrees with you that you look good. I mean, take a look at how the fabulous Julie Gichuru does it.Julie Gichuru takes an amazing shot with the OPPO F3. Photo / COURTESYIt takes some technique and arguably, the best way to take a selfie is by using the front camera of your phone.Not too many phones have great front-facing camera. This is where the OPPO F3 stands out. The OPPO F3 features not just one but two front camerasWhy two front cameras?The idea is simply brilliant. The OPPO F3 features the brand&rsquo;s first dual front camera. This phone delivers great selfie photos through the revolutionary dual selfie front cameras: a 16-megapixel camera for selfie and a 120-degree wide-angle lens for group selfie.The OPPO F3 has two front cameras. Photo / COURTESYUnderstand this again: one camera is a 16-megapixel with 1/3-inch sensor while the second is an 8-megapixel with 1/4-inch sensor, 120&deg;wide angleToo good to be true? Nope. That&rsquo;s simply OPPO F3 for you.It is your secret weapon for a &lsquo;Group Selfie&rsquo;. The specialized 120-degree wide-angle 8MP camera captures a wider view &hellip;up to 105 percent more than what a regular lens will capture.This allows even more people to enter the frame!The phone has a built-in Smart Facial Recognition. It will notify you to switch to &lsquo;Group Selfie&rsquo; mode if there are more than three people in the picture frame.Group selfie with the OPPO F3. Photo / COURTESYYou can snap your Group Selfie at ease without compromising the image stability while taking your picture with one hand.As if that&rsquo;s not enough&hellip;There are still other absolutely innovative technologies that come with the OPPO F3 to help you capture that perfect picture.OPPO&rsquo;s editing software, Beautify 4.0 allows users to choose from various beautification modes. This ensures images are presented with the most favorable effects.Where to get the OPPO F3 Selfie expert?You can get this absolutely cool phone for just Sh 32,999/= at any OPPO branded store countrywide. Alternatively, you could buy it on Jumia and they&rsquo;ll deliver right at your doorstep.