A Court of Appeal decision has dealt lawyers a severe blow in their push to be exempted from using Electronic Tax Register (ETR) machines. Although the electronic tax registers have been in use in the whole country since 2005, lawyers have been exclusive enjoying immunity from their use. This was after they successfully obtaining a temporary order pending the determination of the appeal against the exemption. The ETR dispute arose in 2004 when then Finance minister David Muiraria proposed to amend the tax law to provide for introduction of the Electronic Tax Register. But lawyers, through their organisation LSK, argued that the regulations were discriminative and contrary to the Advocates Act. They said subjecting them to the use of ETR would interfere with client-advocate confidentiality. But in a decision rendered by a three-judge bench comprising of Erastus Githinji, G.B.M Kariuki, and Sankale ole Kantai on June 16, their arguments were dismissed for lacking merit. "Had we found that the appeal has merit, we could, nevertheless, have rejected the appeal on the ground of public interest having regard to the detrimental effect an order allowing the appeal would have on the VAT tax administration," the judges said. When the machines were introduced in 2005, LSK went to court seeking an order to have the Minister, Kenya Revenue Authority and the Commissioner of Domestic Taxes barred from implementing the Value Added Tax (ETR) Regulations, 2004. The society argued that the regulations were contrary to the Advocates Act and that the Minister had already made a provisional order legalising the use of ETR before the empowering law was passed. But the suit was dismissed by then High court judge Joseph Nyamu who held that LSK had made a serious misapprehension of the relevant tax law. Aggrieved by the decision, the lawyers appealed in 2006 and obtained a suspension of the High Court judgment. This exempted them from using the ETR machines until the appeal is determined. During hearings, the minister denied that the regulations have any retrospective effect but rather were meant to curb fraudulent purchase documents, deductions or claim for value added tax refunds as well as tedious and lengthy exercise carried out by KRA in establishing trader’s tax liability. LSK, before the Appeal court, said the judge failed to appreciate that the minister published the Electronic Tax Registers Regulations 2004, yet the Finance Act 2004 which he relied on to make regulations, had not come into force. The lawyers argued that the judge made a fundamental error of law in holding that the ETR Regulations were properly made and published. This was on the basis that the minister had invoked powers purportedly vested upon him by the Provisional Collection of Taxes and Duties Act. But justice Emukule, Kariuki and Kantai in dismissing the suit, said the introduction of electronic tax registers was within the objective of Section 58 of the VAT Act. They said the minister had power to make VAT, Electronic Tax Registers Regulations. "The fact that the Finance Act was ultimately enacted and came into effect on the same date as the provisional order did not render the previous provisional order unlawful," the judges said. Their view was that the regulations were not in conflict with the Finance Act. As a subsidiary legislation, the regulations remained in force so far as they were not inconsistent with the Finance Act until they were revoked or repealed.