Defending champion Ismael Changawa continued his good run in the Britam Kenya Open tennis tournament by edging out Christian Diamba from Cote d&rsquo;Ivoire 6-0, 6-3 to advance to the quarter-finals. The US-based player was in dominant form from the start and made light work of the Ivorian. Diamba had no answer to Changawa serve and volley game in the opening set with the Kenyan breaking his serve easily to win the opening set in less than 20 minutes. Diamba showed greater fight in the second set and led 1-0 and 2-1 before Changawa stormed back to win the fourth game to tie the match at 2-2. From there on, Changawa upped the ante and pounded several winners past Diamba to win the encounter.&ldquo;I thought I would win easily after yesterday&rsquo;s opener against Hiroki Ishida but the guy was equally prepared. I had to adjust my mindset in the first set after realising his prowess and changed to a serious play. I had the feeling of a champion and I thought of easy sets but it wasn&rsquo;t the same on the court. I mean I was so complacent.&rdquo;He further noted that the experience of playing in different courts and at different levels had favoured him over his opponents.&ldquo;The experience of rubbing shoulders with payers from different parts of the world has done me a favour. Today&rsquo;s court was a bit rough compared to the one i used yesterday. But that is not reason to hide incase of a defeat. Generally, I am happy for the win.&rdquo;In other matches played in the men&rsquo;s category, Sheil Kotecha thumped Congolese Christian Saidi 6-1, 6-2 to win his second round.The two had met earlier in November last, where Kotecha who is ranked third nationally, emerged the winner. He said: &ldquo;I played him last year and I knew his tactics though I have noted some improvements on his side.&rdquo; Kevin Cheruiyot lost to Rwandese Olivier Havugimana 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 while Ugandan Dancan Mugabe saw off his Kenyan counterpart Petty Andanda 6-1, 6-0. Ibrahim Kibet eased past Sarma da Silva Nkulufa 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 to advance to the quarters. In the ladies category, Gabon&rsquo;s Celestine Avono continued with her good run, beating Judith Nkatha 6-1, 6-3. She had won her opener on Tuesday against Paige Mbugua.Phoebe Masika won 6-1, 6-0 in the ladies wheelchair singles and so did Jane Ndegwa, who beat Asiya Sururu 6-3,6-3. Juliet Cherono beat Susan Adhiambo 6-3, 6-2 in the ladies&rsquo; singles (handicap category).