It couldn&rsquo;t have happened at a worse time. On the eve of a funky presentation of what Jubilee called a manifesto &mdash; but which opposition dismissed as a spirited defence of failure &mdash; the Sh1.2 billion Sigiri Bridge in Budalang&rsquo;i, Busia county, collapsed into heaps of dust and debris.I could say more about the mechanical, almost punitive appearances, by Cabinet Secretaries on a manifesto launch stage whose seeming achievements their body language said they didn&rsquo;t believe in.Meanwhile, like the deathtraps that perennially maim and kill Kenyans, the shrunken remains of Sigiri Bridge would&rsquo;ve passed off as another of those Kenyan mysteries, where nature punishes our lack of probity and love for shortcuts in construction. It is by sheer luck that no one died as the bridge caved in as a memorial to how kickbacks derail implementation of projects.Sigiri Bridge isn&rsquo;t just another footbridge the President was looking forward to launch in this campaign period. The bridge carries deeper and symbolic political meaning than would the footbridge that invited exchanges in Mombasa with Governor Hassan Joho. It would&rsquo;ve crowned Uhuru&rsquo;s achievements in a region that feels excluded by the Jubilee regime. Instead, the bridge across River Nzioa helps us understand what a political project means.It&rsquo;s this bridge &mdash; a valued Jubilee project &mdash; that, according to Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba self-confession, helped President Uhuru Kenyatta win Ababu from his nemesis Raila Odinga as ODM secretary general. But helping acquire a personality isn&rsquo;t all about a political project in Kenya. The speed with which such projects are fast-tracked, compromising quality regulations and standards and leading to shoddy works, is part of the definition of political projects.However, the most definitive of political projects is either a promise that never takes off or, if it does, it is laden with kickbacks for a chosen few, rendering it an incomplete white elephant. Or it may indeed be completed but have a very short lifespan. The most recent of such are often unveiled in the sorry Western region that is a hunting ground for Jubilee political projects.In mega national projects, the public purse is stolen through agency payments that are a result of inflated and over-priced costs. Locally, a totally new tinge of political projects involving siphoning off allocated money has become fashionable. What passes as a project is in execution meant to literally buy support by embezzlement through cash transfer to targetted individuals. The case of the Mumias Sugar Factory comes to mind. Mumias has received upwards of Sh4.5 billion support from the Sugar Levy Fund. The money was apparently meant to offset farmers&rsquo; debts, and cushion against factory redundancy in cane delivery. However, there is never amelioration. It then emerged that Mumias is only a conduit through which politicians receive campaign funds. In one recent instance, a copy of a resignation letter allegedly by the immediate former CEO, who relocated hurriedly back to Australia, claimed he was under pressure to handover Sh10 million from an allocation of about Sh300 million from the Sugar Levy Fund to a local Jubilee politician. What the Mumias expose did was to portray projects initiated by Jubilee as a channel for benefits accruing to individual recruits.Denials abound but there is no gainsaying Sigiri could expose the embezzlement rot that is embedded in projects doled out by Jubilee to new political recruits. In Western, allied politicians never tire of justifying their dalliance with Jubilee on &ldquo;projects&rdquo; to be initiated. They&rsquo;ve hardly been prepared for the new perception of being recipients of inducements at the expense quality projects such as roads for their people.We have it on the word of Infrastructure PS John Musonik that the Sigiri construction is suspended, pending a probe while police awkwardly hinted at foul play. If it&rsquo;s found that collapse was a result of shoddy work, will the reason be traced back to syphoning from the budget to pay off politicians as in Mumias? And do police assume the bridge was petrol bombed?For Jubilee, Sigiri is the fabled &lsquo;a bridge too far&rsquo;. If nothing else, it symbolises the crack in which Jubilee attempts to gain a foothold in the Western region has fallen through. Jubilee fortunetellers must be hoping Sigiri doesn&rsquo;t forebode the looming election debacle in August.