It will be compulsory for all private and public companies and institutions in Mombasa to admit university students from the county for internship if I become governor, Suleiman Shahbal has said.The Jubilee candidate said he will prevail upon the county assembly to pass a law that will make it a must for the companies to abide by that rule.&ldquo;Foreign&rdquo; students will be considered, but the first priority will be given to those schooling in the county.This followed an outcry from more than 80,000 students, claiming they have been discriminated by institutions, because the majority of them are not natives.The students said it has been a tall order to secure internship even in government institutions.The county government was cited as the biggest culprit. Shahbal said such law has not been in place since 2013, because the system &ldquo;does not have the students interest at heart&rdquo;.He spoke on Saturday at Mbaraki Hall, when students endorsed his candidature. &ldquo;Businesspeople must bear their share of assisting the youth,&rdquo; Shahbal said.He said intership programmes act as a launchpad to the job market.&ldquo;Intership is a requirement for one to be productive in the job industry. There must be an avenue for you [students] to get tested. This is an idea rooted in reality and we can do it. Yes we can,&rdquo; Shahbal said.Shahbal also said bursaries will be guaranteed to all those schooling in Mombasa.&ldquo;It has happened in Kwale and it must happen in Mombasa,&rdquo; he said. In Kwale, Governor Salim Mvurya started a programme &lsquo;Elimu Sasa&rsquo; to assist the students through bursaries.The students will also be involved in what Shahbal termed &ldquo;Mombasa Revolution&rdquo;, which is akin to the one that helped free African icon Nelson Mandela from prison. It will also be similar to that of Cuba, Russia and China and Kenya&rsquo;s 1992, when the fight for multiparty democracy paid off. Shahbal claimed he took part in the South Africa&rsquo;s revolution, while he was still a business administration student at a US university.He said the same tactic they employed in the 1980s, will be replicated now.Students, mostly those in the university, played a major role in the uprisings. &ldquo;Power is never given, power must be taken,&rdquo; Shahbal said.&ldquo;Revolution does not come easy.&rdquo;He said the revolution will entail reclaiming the county&rsquo;s lost glory.&ldquo;I promise you nothing but blood, sweat and tears, but guarantee you victory. I guarantee you victory on August 8,&rdquo; he told the students.