The National Hospital Insurance Fund will foot medical bills for smokers to quit tobacco.About 50 per cent of Kenya&rsquo;s estimated three million smokers are struggling to kick the deadly habit, the Health ministry says.Health PS Julius Korir yesterday urged smokers to seek free medical help, instead of trying to stop the habit on their own. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m pleased to note NHIF provides cover for tobacco cessation under its package for addiction to substance abuse,&rdquo;Korir spoke during World No Tobacco Day meeting in Nairobi.The PS also launched tobacco cessation guidelines that health workers should follow while attending to clients.Most smokers struggling to quit are addicted to nicotine. Scientists say nicotine addiction and withdrawal could be worse than addictions to cocaine and heroin.Medics usually prescribe drugs and -or nicotine replacement therapy, which is highly effective, Korir said. The guidelines aim to reduce illness and deaths from tobacco smoking.Tobacco is the biggest known preventable cause of cancer and predisposes users to other non-communicable diseases. &ldquo;It is estimated more than 50 per cent of the hospital admissions are due to NCDs,&rdquo; Korir said.&ldquo;On average, 80 per cent of premature deaths are related to the use or exposure to tobacco, thus Kenya faces increased challenges to achieving its development goals.&rdquo;Global evidence shows policy-level approaches to help patients to stop smoking are cost-effective and have demonstrated results.The 2015 STEPwise Survey for NCDs risk factors revealed 13 per cent of adults use tobacco products and one in five Kenyans are exposed to secondhand tobacco smoke at home.Half of those smokers have attempted to quit smoking in the past 12 months, the survey showed.Head of the Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance Joel Gitali urged the government to give the Sh1 billion miraa fund to tobacco farmers to enable them grow alternative crops.The No Tobacco Day theme was tobacco&rsquo;s threat to development. NHIF will now foot medical bills for smokers to quit tobacco. About 50 per cent of Kenya's estimated three million smokers are struggling to kick the habit, according to the ministry of health. Health Principal Secretary Julius Korir urged the smokers to seek the free medical help rather than try on their own. &ldquo;I am pleased to note that National Hospital Insurance Fund provides cover for tobacco cessation under addiction to substance use disorder package,&rdquo; he said yesterday during the World No Tobacco Day meeting in Nairobi. The PS also launched the tobacco cessation guidelines that health workers should follow while attending to clients. Most smokers struggling to quit are usually addicted to nicotine. Scientists saysuch nicotine addiction and withdrawal could be worse than addictions to cocaine and heroin. Korir said the government has introduced the guidelines to cut deaths from tobacco smoking. Tobacco is the biggest known preventable cause of cancers, but also causes other non communicable diseases. &ldquo;It is estimated that more than 50% of the hospital admissions are due to NCDs,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;On average 80% of premature deaths are related to the use or exposure tobacco thus Kenya faces increased challenges to achieving its development goals.&rdquo; The 2015 STEPwise Survey for NCDs risk factors revealed that 13 per cent of adults use tobacco products and one in five Kenyans are exposed to second hand tobacco smoke at home. The Global Youth Tobacco Survey of 2013 showed that 10% of Kenyan youth aged 13 to 15 years are regular consumers of tobacco products. Head of the Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance Joel Gitali urged the government to give the Sh1 billion Miraa fund to tobacco farmers for alternative crops. &ldquo;We should help farmers to quit tobacco farming, and that means improving lives of people and also dealing with food insecurity,&rdquo; he said. This year&rsquo;s No Tobacco day theme was Tobacco &ndash; a threat to development. The Global Adult Tobacco Survey of 2014 revealed that half of the current smokers have attempted to quit smoking in past 12 months. &ldquo;This therefore demonstrates a need to avail cessation services to Kenyans. Tobacco cessation interventions offered by the health care systems are more effective than individual based interventions,&rdquo; Korir said.