President Uhuru Kenyatta has accused Opposition chiefs of inciting Kenyans and demanded that they give evidence of their claims on a Mumias Sugar official's murder.These were Uhuru's remarks at the start of his two-day tour of Gusiiland on Tuesday. NASA brigade condemned the killing of Mumias Sugar Company secretary Ronald Lubya during their campaigns in Machakos town on Monday.Lubya was shot dead in his house on Sunday night by a gang of unknown men.Opposition leaders blamed the government for the killing, claiming the secretary refused to bow to pressure to sign a deal for illegal sugar importation.Read more: NASA chiefs say Jubilee behind killing of Mumias Sugar secretaryAlso see: Mumias Sugar secretary may have been target, police say, rule out robberyThe President called for issue-based politics in his address at Masimba Secondary School in Nyaribari Chache. "If you have information on the killing, give it to police. [How will making claims at a political rally help]? &nbsp;Let us not incite Kenyans or cause unnecessary tension," he said. Noting Raila Odinga and other Opposition leaders should sell policies, he added:&nbsp; "Our competitors are focusing on propaganda, divisive politics and abuses. I'm campaigning on the strength of my achievements and what I intend to do in the next five years." Uhuru urged the Kisii community to vote for him on August 8 and&nbsp;gave Sh358 million for more than 7,000 IDPs in the county. "This issue has been with us for several years...we want to give the IDPs compensation and settle this matter with finality."The President was with Education CS Fred Matiang'i, Kisii Senator Chris Obure, former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae and Kisii woman representative aspirant Dorice Donya.The politicians assured him of their community's support."The Kisii community is behind you and will walk with you. We thank you for compensating the IDPs," said Obure. Donya said: "Your excellency, we are behind you and will overwhelmingly vote for you."The President disrupted learning when he landed at at Riabugutu Primary School. He later addressed locals at Masimba Secondary School where learning was also interrupted.Uhuru promised the second school Sh5 million.Matiang'i, who banned politics in schools, attended the two functions.&nbsp;