Kenyans may have enough blood flowing in their veins, but they do not donate enough for a rainy day.The Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service says the country consistently operates below the required amounts. For instance, only 155,000 units of blood was collected nationwide in 2015, against the annual requirement of 400,000 units.Head of KNBTS Margaret Oduor is expected to release the 2016 figures on Wednesday, when the country marks World Blood Donor Day.She said 80 per cent of blood donors in Kenya are between 16 and 25 years, mostly students in high school and tertiary institutions.&ldquo;An adequate and reliable supply of safe blood can be assured by a stable base of regular, voluntary and unpaid blood donors. These donors are also the safest group of donors as the prevalence of blood-borne infections is lowest among this group,&rdquo; the World Health Organization said in a statement yesterday.WHO noted that while blood transfusion saves lives and improves health, many patients requiring transfusion do not have timely access to safe blood. &ldquo;Providing safe and adequate blood should be an integral part of every country&rsquo;s national health care policy and infrastructure,&rdquo; the statement said.The KNBTS has six regional blood transfusion centres. They are Nairobi, Embu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu and Mombasa. It also has 14 satellite centres in Machakos, Kisii, Voi, Meru, Naivasha, Kakamega, Kericho, Nyeri, Garissa, Malindi, Thika, Lodwar, Bungoma and Kitale.The highest blood donor in Kenya is Sanya Kennedy, a public prosecutor in Nakuru, who recently received the Head of State Commendation.Sanya has donated blood 81 times since 1983. &ldquo;Blood donation is the biggest gift one can give to humanity. People should give freely, because it is given freely to them by God,&rdquo; he said.In Kenya, anyone aged between 16 and 65 years can donate blood, but they must be above 50 kilogrammes.The blood is tested for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Syphilis, HIV and other infections to ensure it is safe.The KNBTS says the blood mostly ends up in anaemic patients, people undergoing surgery, patients with cancer and leukemia, accident victims and those that have complications during pregnancy. People can donate blood after every three months for males and after four months for females. They do not need any special diets after that, because the body quickly replenishes the donated blood.