Regulations for online trading in shares and bonds at the Nairobi Securities Exchange are likely to be enforced before end of the year, the Capital Markets Authority said yesterday. &ldquo;As we speak, we have submitted the draft regulations to the Attorney General&rsquo;s office for gazettement through the National Treasury. So we expect them to be ready any time,&rdquo; CMA director for regulatory policy and strategy Luke Ombara told reporters in Nairobi. Ombara said that there have been no regulations for online trading and that investors have been using online trading platforms both locally and abroad to trade on their own. The proposed framework will include risk management policies aimed at giving the investor the exact outlook of how risky an investment is. It will also introduce a leverage set at 1:100 which Ombara said is the ratio of money set aside from the total investment aimed at cushioning the investor from losses. The regulations will also include the registration of online foreign exchange dealers. &ldquo;Online Forex dealers have never been regulated by us before but because the numbers are increasing, we expect many Kenyans to get an interest in online trading the same way they are interested in online betting,&rdquo; Ombara said. &ldquo;Our role as a regulator is to make sure that these brokers or dealers are regulated under specific conditions.&rdquo; The regulations, Ombara said, will better inform investors on the risk related to online trading as well as shield them from the exposure that comes with market volatility. CMA estimates that there are currently more than 80,000 investors trading online, 80 per cent of whom are based in the UK with the rest spread out in Mauritius and Australia. Shares are traded online through both local and international brokers who are members of the OTC forex market that they trade in. The regulatory framework will go through parliament guided by the Statutory Instruments Act. The framework has been borrowed from the UK, Mauritius and Australia which already have a set of rules managing online trading of shares. &ldquo;We have been working with them but we are really trying to make sure that we align it to the Kenyan economy,&rdquo; Ombara said. He said for the time being, trading through online platforms will be done through all other currencies apart from the shilling until CBK, through a study on the impact of online trading on foreign exchange volatility, is able to assess the exposure.