These are truly hard times for the dynamic duo of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. To their utter consternation and disbelief, their dynamism is of the kind that when applied in words and deeds boomerangs right back, but not before those words and deeds are contaminated.Barely were they done with forced disowning and embracing of independent candidates in their areas of political hegemony, so that they appeared to be comically playing doublespeak mind games, than some folks refused to appreciate favours they don&rsquo;t deserve. Take the case of the forgotten Kisii IDPs, who, no sooner had they received underserved and unexpected alms they should be grateful for, began raising hell about their rating.The IDP issue is self-inflicted for the two and was always going to be an emotive one milked to the last drop for its vote-fetching potency. The duo could always claim a latter-day Robin Hood-style rescue rewards for dolling out donations to IDPs. Not to be outdone, NASA would certainly claim a piece of the IDPs by reminding Jubilee of its discrimination in the handling of displaced persons.You see, Jubilee made spadework of frenzied settling, resettling and compensating of IDPs. It had a national emergency tinge to it. Too much energy went into searching for the credit of solving the IDP albatross to the extent satisfaction was blinded by the utter disorganisation and theft by servant officers on the ground.Jubilee made IDPs a running theme alongside the ICC cases from 2014 to last year. Is it then a coincidence that the Kisii IDPs&rsquo; gift sparked another round of hackneyed blame game on who was the instigator of alleged fresh ICC investigations? Is it beyond Jubilee&rsquo;s reach to provoke the ICC Prosecutor into commenting on the withheld cases and make the court election fodder? Isn&rsquo;t it a clever ruse to deflect attention from the IDP pit?It is not beyond the duo&rsquo;s detractors to imagine the magic power that dismantled the ICC cases could be at work again. How else do you explain the eagerness with which Ruto has rushed to apportion blame?Sometime in 2016, the enthusiasm with which Ruto announced a Sh6 billion budget to &lsquo;finish&rsquo; resettlement - or was it compensation &ndash; of IDPs bellied some haste in response to the ICC cases. Then we were told by Devolution CS Anne Waiguru that the target was not &ldquo;integrated&rdquo; IDPs, whose whereabouts and numbers could not be ascertained or verified. In fact, an arrogant Waiguru intimated that there was no such category as the victims had &ldquo;returned home&rdquo; to the care of their relatives.Thus, erasure of this category of IDPs was government policy. Many decried the discrimination since the majority of &ldquo;integrated IDPs&rdquo; were from Western Kenya&mdash;Luhya, Luo and Kisiis. Whilst their Central Kenya counterparts enjoyed favoured settlement, resettlement and compensation, the &ldquo;integrated IDPs&rdquo; were left to fend for themselves.The case of farmer Adrian Muteshi, whose land was grabbed, is etched in the minds of Kenyans as a symbol of the dispossessed IDPs. Ten years down the line, those who have not died in a bid to escape the ignominy of homelessness have burdened host families and sprouted property inheritance conflicts.How compelling is it then that Uhuru selectively acknowledges their existence now with a generous Sh50,000, assuming it&rsquo;s equivalent to those who got land and upwards of Sh400,000 each without breaking a sweat? Why would these &lsquo;Children of a Lesser God&rsquo; feel grateful for 50 Sh1,000 notes in their outstretched soiled hands as compensation 10 years later for lost livelihoods, dispossession and suffering?And what about the other Kisii, Luhya and Luo brethren scattered all over? Who will identify, classify and categorise them and quantify their suffering and loss if recognition is a transient trait conditional on elections?The state under Jubilee abandoned its citizens in their hour of need and still treats them cynically. To use restitution as bribery for votes is insulting to the IDP after all the neglect and misery they have undergone.The state should apologise to these IDPs, adequately compensate them and their hosts consummerate to what their brethren from Central got, plus a bonus to cover 10 years in the wild. Barring this, UhuRuto can give all the tokens they want, but these will only fuel resentment.Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi[email&#160;protected],