LAST week, during the Brussels NATO meet and the G7 Summit in Italy, two separate handshakes caught local and international media attention. Locally, the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and US President Donald Trump at the G7 on Friday caused frenzy in mainstream and social media all through the weekend. On the other hand, President Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron exchanged an awkward power handshake at their first face-to-face meeting in Brussels on Thursday. This caught international media attention, and was analysed by foreign policy experts as well as psychologists. &ldquo;Each President gripped the other&rsquo;s hand with considerable intensity, their knuckles turning white and their jaws clenching and faces tightening,&rdquo; according to a report by the White House correspondents&rsquo; pool.Philip Rucker of the Washington Post said: &ldquo;Trump tried twice to release and Macron held on tight . . . It was quite a handshake, two alphas.&rdquo; President Trump&rsquo;s handshakes with world leaders have been a talking point in his recent foreign travels, among them when he met the Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.President Macron himself said the fierce handshake was &ldquo;a moment of truth,&rdquo; in an interview with Le Journal du Dimanche.&ldquo;My handshake with him wasn&rsquo;t innocent,&rdquo; Macron said. &ldquo;One must show that you won&rsquo;t make small concessions, even symbolic ones, but also not over-publicise things, either.&rdquo;President Barack Obama caused a stir at the memorial service for Nelson Mandela on December 10, 2013, by pausing to shake hands with Cuban President Raul Castro. Whether that is where it started or whether it was in any way a contributing factor, the US and Cuba resumed diplomatic relations in July 2015 since cutting them in 1961. In March 2016, Obama became the first sitting US President to visit Cuba since Calvin Coolidge did so in 1928. &ldquo;I have come here to bury the last remnant of the Cold War in the Americas,&rdquo; Obama said.In 2013, the most memorable statement came from US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson, when he directly implored Kenyans to avoid voting for Kenyatta and his running mate William Ruto into office. Despite facing crimes against humanity charges at the ICC, a photo of President Obama reaching out to Uhuru for a handshake in New York in September 2014 set tongues wagging. The two then met at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York on September 23 and had a photo op with their wives, Margaret Kenyatta and Michelle Obama.In July 2015, Kenyatta hosted President Obama in Nairobi, marking a historic moment; the first time ever that a sitting US President visited Kenya.Following international mediation in the post-election violence in 2008-09, it is the handshake between President Mwai Kibaki and ODM leader Raila Odinga on the steps of Harambee House, the Office of the President building, that sealed the National Accord.So what is in a handshake?Handshakes combine the ritual of the truce &mdash; the handclasp first emerged as a signal that a right-hander was not about to draw his weapon as a preamble of battle. Second, as Macron said, a strong handshake equals or sends a message of strength and control: No signs of budging. So the question should be, will the Trump-Uhuru handshake mean something for Kenya-US relations or US foreign policy for Africa?