President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday issued 6,000 title deeds to Trans Nzoia residents. He announced that another 120,000 will be handed over within the next six weeks. Uhuru said the beneficiaries will not be charged any stamp duty since the government waived the more than Sh1.2 billion they would have been charged. The President and Deputy President William Ruto issued the documents while on a tour of the county. The issuance of the 6,000 titles raised the number of those issued since Uhuru assumed office to above the 2.8 million mark. "We want to make sure that every Kenyan has a title for the land he or she owns," the President said. The head of state said the government will reduce the price of fertiliser to Sh1,200 from Sh1,500 effective December. He said the new prices will allow farmers to buy the product in readiness for the next planting season. "The prices of subsidised seeds will also go down to Sh120," Uhuru said. He also toured the ADC Semen Centre which was put up by the government at Sh1 billion. Uhuru said the development of the facility is part of the government’s plan to boost food production in the area. "We are doing this with the knowledge that Trans Nzoia and the neighbouring counties are Kenya's breadbasket," he said. The President further announced that his administration will release Sh200 million to pay salary owed to 25,000 ADC farms employees. The arrears have accumulated since the year 2000 when the ADC farms experienced financial challenges. He said the shortage of maize in the country is a result of the drought that affected food production last season. "We have travelled across Trans Nzoia today and we have seen that we expect a bumper harvest this year." He announced that maize imports will stop once the current maize crop is harvested. The President, who led Jubilee campaigns in the area, called on the residents to vote for him as well as all other Jubilee candidates. He said he leads a team that is determined to change the lives of Kenyans and is not ready to engage in insults with the opposition. In Cherangany, Uhuru and Ruto called on current MP Wesley Korir, who lost in the Jubilee nominations, to work with the party. The President started his tour of Trans Nzoia with a rally at Kobos before proceeding to hold more rallies. He met residents at Endebes, Matisi, Kitale town, Kitale showground, Sibanga, Kaplamai, Maili Saba and finally at Moi's Bridge.