Teams which will represent Nyanza region at the Kenya Secondary Schools Term Two &lsquo;B&rsquo; games have been warned against fielding ineligible players.Ministry of Education and Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) officials sounded the warning as the curtain came down on the Nyanza region Term &lsquo;2B&rsquo; games at Homa Bay High School on Thursday afternoon.The warning came after six schools were banned from the games for fielding bogus players and on the grounds of impersonation. The schools which were banned include Mogonga Mixed, Gesero, St. Paul&rsquo;s Ligisa, and Olembo. Our Lady of Mercy Ringa boys&rsquo; football and volleyball teams were also banned.&ldquo;Teams going to nationals should ensure they have genuine students in their squads. We don&rsquo;t want a scenario like what happened here. We cannot afford to be ashamed at the nationals,&rdquo; warned Ezra Odondi, the Nyanza region sports coordinating Quality Assurance and Standards officer.KSSSA Nyanza region chairman Moses Adala and the secretary Tom Odhiambo also cautioned teachers against fielding non students. &ldquo;Hard decisions were made and we are not afraid to do it again until we clean this mess,&rdquo; said Adalla.Odhiambo said: &ldquo;It is unacceptable to field ineligible players and the ban on the five schools is just the beginning. We must follow the laid down regulations on who should take part in school games.&rdquo;Adalla and Odhiambo were, however, upbeat that the selected teams Kanga High (boys&rsquo; soccer), Kobala Mixed (girls&rsquo; soccer), St Anne&rsquo;s Sega (girls&rsquo; volleyball) and Sengera SDA (boys&rsquo; volleyball) will do well at the nationals. &ldquo;Nyanza teams have always been a threat at the nationals in soccer and volleyball. It is my prayer that when we go to Nyeri, we book slots in the East Africa games,&rdquo; said Odhiambo.Adalla said: &ldquo;As you are aware, the boys&rsquo; soccer East Africa champions Barding were bundled out. Kanga will carry our flag and I&rsquo;m confident they will go out there and bring back the trophy. Sengera and Sega have good teams that are capable of winning the national titles also.&rdquo;Nyanza deputy education director Eunice Khaemba, Homa Bay county director of education Margaret Muandale and Nicholas Oyucho, the Homa Bay County Quality Assurance and Standards officer also backed up the Nyanza teams to do well at the nationals.&ldquo;Our target should not be national trophies but East Africa. Conquer teams at the nationals so that you represent us in the East Africa games to be held in August in Gulu, Uganda,&rdquo; said Khaemba. The national championships will be held in Nyeri between July 2-9.