President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said he will accept Kenyans&rsquo; decision on August 8.He said Jubilee is keen on holding a peaceful election because every Kenyan has a right to vote for leaders of their own choice and ask for votes freely across the country.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re telling our competitors that Kenya belongs to all of us. Kenyans will decide and we&rsquo;ll respect their verdict,&rdquo; Uhuru said.He addressed supporters at Highway Junction on the Kakamega-Kisumu road before his caravan passed through the streets of Kakamega town to Trans Nzoia county.Uhuru said Jubilee wants to start a new thing. &ldquo;It will not be business as usual beginning August 9, and we are telling the youth that it is now time to change the country and this will be done by them,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s come together on the basis of agenda, policy and programmes. Those banking their victory on their tribes will be shocked because Kenya is not the same anymore.&rdquo;Uhuru said Jubilee is not competing with NASA on propaganda. He urged Kenyans to differentiate between policy and propaganda.Cost of living a problemUhuru admitted that the high cost of living is a challenge, but said the government is doing what is expected of it to address the problem.&ldquo;All we need now is to make sure we have enough quantity to reach every household. What will the opposition tell you when every household feels the reduced cost of living?&rdquo; he said.Uhuru arrived in Kakamega county on Wednesday evening from Nyamira.He briefly saluted a gathering at Butali market before speeding towards the Kakamega State Lodge, where he spent the night.Uhuru, however, ran into hostile crowds at Stand Mboga and Lurambi junctions. The crowds chanted opposition slogans and waved NASA flags.At Lurambi Junction, youths threw stones at the presidential convoy, forcing GSU officers to confront them. There were no injuries or arrests reported during the incident.But Uhuru yesterday said he is not afraid of being heckled because that will not change his role as President. Deputy President William Ruto toured Lugari, Navakholo and Matungu constituencies on Saturday.On Wednesday he explained that the President only came to Kakamega to sleep, but team Jubilee will officially visit next weekend. Jubilee MPs Emmanuel Wangwe, Ben Washiali, Bernard Shinali, David Were, Malulu Injendi and Kakamega governor candidate Mabel Muruli were among politicians who accompanied Uhuru. In the recent past Uhuru and Ruto have avoided Kakamega town. Their visit is seen as an attempt to cancel the gains NASA may have made during the launch of its presidential campaigns in Bukhungu Stadium on June 3.NASA announced it will recruit 200,000 presidential agents to be deployed across the 45,000 polling stations on August 8. These, Raila said, would deter the rigging of votes.