The national government has injected Sh12.6 billion for Murang’a county road construction and water supply in dry areas. Transport CS James Macharia said the cash will be used to resolve the water crises and improve the road network in lower parts of Murang’a, including Maragua, Makuyu, Ithanga and Kakuzi. He said the areas have suffered from water crises and poor roads since Independence. Macharia spoke on Wednesday after meeting residents from the lower parts of the county at Kenol town. The CS said Sh10 billion has been set aside for installation of equipment and supply of water to the arid parts of the county for irrigation and domestic use. “This is why I’m telling Murang’a people not to ask why President Uhuru Kenyatta during his tour in the county didn’t leave goodies. The national government has already funded mega projects in the county, including roads worth Sh22 billion. Now the region will get sufficient water that will end the agony that residents have been through,” Macharia said.  Open up area to business The state will spend Sh2.6 billion to construct the 65km Makuyu-Ithanga road, which will be the longest tarmac road in the lower parts of the county, he said. It will be the first tarmac road in the area and construction will begin next month. Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wairia said the water and roads projects will open up the semi-arid region and boost the county’s economy. The region has huge tracts of fertile land and availability of irrigation water and a good transport system will improve agribusiness, he said. “This means that the suffering our people in lower parts of the county have been through will come to an end. With water and good roads, businesses will boom and the region’s economy will improve,” Wairia said. The governor added that Murang’a residents now have every reason to reelect Jubilee.  Vote Jubilee for prosperity Macharia also said the Jubilee government deserves another term as no other regime in Kenya’s history has developed Kenya the way President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have. He said Jubilee’s first term was for completing projects started by retired President Mwai Kibaki’s government. “The second term will be for completing projects that the UhuRuto government has started,” the CS added. Residents welcomed the projects and said they are a major boost to their living standards and the region’s economy. “We are hardworking people and we are tired of relying on relief food. Once we get the water we will be able to farm crops for consumption and business,” resident Anne Katemi said.