President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto today embark on a charm offensive tour of Nyamira and Kisii counties. The region is a perceived NASA stronghold. With only 62 days to the August 8 election, it is unclear whether Jubilee will make significant inroads in Gusiiland, which heavily voted for ODM leader Raila Odinga at the 2013 polls. Kisii Senator Chris Obure yesterday said Jubilee is gaining ground. He expressed confidence that Uhuru will get overwhelming support. Obure said they have prepared the ground to have Uhuru meet voters in villages, and the region supports Jubilee. &ldquo;It is time our people reflected on whom they should entrust with political positions. We are telling them they should be in government. Kisii is no longer an ODM zone,&rdquo; the JP governor candidate said. Obure launched his bid at Nyamase, Bobasi constituency, yesterday. He faces incumbent James Ongwae, who is widely viewed as the favourite to win. Obure and former CIC boss Charles Nyachae, the JP candidate for the Kisii Senate seat, will host Uhuru and Ruto during the two-day tour. The duo will address residents during stopovers in Suneka, Jogoo, Kegogi, Nyamataro, Keumbu, Keroka and hold a rally in Nyamarambe Stadium, before proceeding to Nyamira town.Obure said Uhuru will not launch development projects this time, but meet residents and sell his administration&rsquo;s achievements. The tour comes barely a month after one of their pointmen &mdash; Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi &mdash; defected to ODM, the party he ditched two years ago. Maangi was at the forefront, trying to help Jubilee penetrate the region. Quitting, he said residents wanted him back in ODM. Ongwae has retained him as his running mate. Ongwae and Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama have snubbed Uhuru and Ruto whenever they visit the counties. They say Gusiiland is a NASA zone and no amount of persuasion or tours by Jubilee will change that. On his last tour of the region, Uhuru accused NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga of precipitating the 2007-08 post-election violence that left at least 1,200 people dead and displaced another 600,000. But Raila dismissed this assertion, terming it a desperate attempt to have the Kisii community back Uhuru