The IEBC has cleared six aspirants for Nairobi governor so far, setting the stage for a bruising battle.Incumbent Evans Kidero (ODM) and Senator Mike Sonko (Jubilee) were among those who got the green light on Thursday. Kidero asked county returning officer Joseph Mele to punish candidates who will propagate violence during campaigns. "I assure you we will adhere to the law and impose sanctions on any candidate who will violate the code of conduct," Mele assured the Governor.Kidero and Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke&nbsp; expressed confidence about re-election. "Our track record speaks for itself. Our opponents should be prepared," he said.The Governor criticised Sonko saying he has not defended the county since his election in 2013."The national government owes us Sh72 billion. The revenue allocation formula does not favour us. The Senator has never defended the county. If he cannot manage a simple debate in the Senate, how can he run this county?" But Sonko hit back at Kidero saying he has let city residents down and failed to implement&nbsp;development projects "despite the billion of shillings he has collected from the national government". "Kidero has abetted corruption at City Hall. He has fleeced Nairobians. The mistakes he made are unforgivable. Tell me, which roads has he ever constructed?. Which slum has he upgraded?"The Senator promised to address the garbage collection, traffic and corruption problems.Kidero said in April that he was not afraid of Sonko and that city residents will prove him right in the election.&ldquo;Our level of preparedness is not determined by who our competitor is. It is determined by the urban integrated development plan that we have developed,&rdquo; he said.More on this: I'm not scared of Sonko - KideroAlso read: Sonko, Kenneth neck and neck, Kidero still leads in Nairobi governor race - Infotrak pollMIGUNA FINALLY GREEN LIGHTMiguna Miguna, who was earlier turned away for presenting signatures in the wrong format, was also cleared but asked to present his campaign schedule on Friday.Nairobi governor aspirant Miguna Miguna with his running mate Karen Wangenye during their clearance for the race by the IEBC, June 1, 2017. /JULIUS OTIENOMiguna&nbsp;accused the media of "pumping fake news" about him following reports the IEBC blocked him from vying."...your agenda is to promote the interests of thieves, crooks and drug dealers. You have been paid by drug dealers to perpetuate impunity in Kenya,&rdquo; he said."Your agenda will not be accepted. The time has come for brown journalism to come to an end...I am in Kenya to put it to an end."Miguna dropped his running mate, 24 year-old James Githungu, in favour of Karen Wangenye. More on this: [VIDEO] Miguna rejected by IEBC after giving signatures in wrong formatAlso read: Media pumping fake news about me, Miguna says after IEBC rejectionMichael Mutinda (Agano Party), Macharia Kamau (Party of Democratic Unity) and Godfrey Wanyoike (independent) were also cleared.Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth who was defeated by Sonko in the Jubilee nominations, and former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende are expected to submit their papers on Friday. &nbsp;