As the electioneering period gets to fever pitch, it&rsquo;s not uncommon to hear politicians across the divide say what they are going to do for businessmen, teachers, doctors, women and youths, among others. The latter, in particular, have drawn the loudest chatter.With Kenya being a youthful country, it&rsquo;s not difficult to understand why. Political parties are outdoing themselves as they sell their manifestos on who is friendlier to the youth. They talk about solving the problems that face the youth, among them unemployment, insecurity, health and education. Whereas it is of utmost importance for any government or party to prioritise youth issues, what has been missing from the major political outfits has been meaningful youth participation in this very important process.And although there has been an attempt to involve youths, it has been tokenistic and manipulative at the very best. The general idea has been to be seen to be involving youth other than actually involving them. Photo-ops, beautiful talking points and statements with catchy slogans seem to be the most frequent and most effective. In most cases, youths are used for their physical strengths rather than their wit, abuses over constructive dialogue, violence over networking.While every political party wants to solve youth unemployment, for example, no party has attempted to meaningfully and strategically harness the thoughts of young people on these subjects in a structured manner. I personally know a lot of young people who have significant experiences and lessons to share on some of these issues: Be they successful or unsuccessful entrepreneurs, academics or any other group of young people. This is not to disregard efforts by political parties such as &lsquo;Youth Dialogues&rsquo;: It is to call upon our political parties to actually do more.Meaningful youth participation is of importance if young people are to feel the sense of ownership of county and national development priorities. They are thus able to contribute effectively towards realising such development agendas. They may not contribute in the same manner as adults, but their sheer numbers, energy, passion, strong networks, creativity and innovation and tools such as technology, are unique strengths that could be the extra arsenal needed to catapult us to be the country we want. Through meaningful participation, youths learn by doing, a crucial process of grooming leadership. The myth that youths are tomorrow&rsquo;s leaders must be laid to rest now.Meaningful participation is not just important for youths. It is equally important to the adults and to the country. Government priorities are more likely to be in synch with the needs of the population, making the priorities more attractive, relevant, effective and thus reaching more people. Otherwise, our government risks being like the generous husband who buys the vegetarian wife some meat and wonders why she is not grateful. Political parties must, therefore, invest in youths, not as a side thing or an add-on but mainstreamed deep down in their abilities and potential. For this to happen, they must create an enabling environment by demonstrating the political will, capacity strengthening and, where need be, financial investment to support these processes. This is an investment that will produce good returns. After all, who knows more about youth issues than the youth themselves? As the former UN secretary general Kofi Annan once said, &ldquo;No one is born a good citizen; no nation is born a democracy. Rather, both are processes that continue to evolve over a lifetime. Young people must be included from birth. A society that cuts itself off from its youth severs its lifeline; it is condemned to bleed to death.&rdquo; The number of youthful aspirants in this election are encouraging, but parties must create more sustainable platforms within to genuinely involve young people, with an agenda to infuse their thoughts in governance.Aseda is the policy and partnerships officer, Network for Adolescents and Youth of Africa