Governors yesterday said they will move to court seeking the nullification of the National Government Appropriation Act, 2017. In a statement, CoG chairman Josphat Nanok criticised the National Assembly for passing the Bill in the absence of the mandatory Division of Revenue Bill and without the input of the Senate as required in the law. On the stalemate over the Division of Revenue Bill, which the National Assembly and the Senate have differed, the governors said the situation is threatening to disrupt devolution and ground key services beginning next month. Nanok said, “To remedy this serious failing, the CoG is moving to court to have the national government Appropriation Act 2017 declared unconstitutional.” On Monday, the Senate Committee on Finance and Commerce, which had met to look into the fresh Bill,rejected it saying it stuck with Sh291 billion instead of the Senate’s Sh314 billion. Committee chairman and Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow had promised his committee would recommend that the House reject the Bill again, adding their counterparts in the National Assembly were taking them for a ride. “This Bill in terms of equitable share between the national and county governments has not changed. It still stands at Sh291 billion, which we rejected last time. The committee has said there is no merit in looking at it anymore.We have recommended that the House drop it,” he told journalists at County Hall, Nairobi. Yesterday, governors said in the absence of the Act, county governments will not be able to develop their own budgets for the 2017-18 financial year. “This situation will paralyse the operations of all county governments. In turn, service delivery will be completely halted, including healthcare,” Nanok said. The governors accused the National Assembly of disregarding all the proposals from the key stakeholders, including the Treasury, the Senate and the Commission on Revenue Allocation. The county bosses also some proposals disregarded concerned allowances.      