Ian Duncan returned to the top of theKenya National Rally Championship series standings on 72 points despite limping to last service at Champagne Park on three wheels during the Fly540 Rally in Kajiado over the weekend.Multiple Rally Team driver Manvir Baryan also edged closer to the summit after placing second on s8 points following his weekend victory. Fourth overall after a rough and tough day wasn&rsquo;t that bad for &lsquo;Old boy&rsquo; Duncan who is now four points ahead of Manvir. Duncan led the KNRC after Safari Rally and is back on top of things after Tapio &lsquo;Flyin Finn&rsquo; Laukkanen stumbled in the Kajiado rockery. Tapio (multiple punctures) and Carl Tundo (oil pump problems) are still top contenders despite failing to master the demanding terrain which started off from the famous Corner Baridi after a ceremonial start in Nairobi and ended at Champagne Park in Kipeto in awesome fashion. After the win, Manvir promised to push a lot more in the second half of the season which starts in Nanyuki next month. Manvir won the season opening Mombasa Rally but lost the lead to Duncan and Tapio as the first half of the season progressed. &ldquo;We will continue to push for more wins now that the car is proving reliable. I really enjoyed the rally and indeed my second career victory,&rdquo; said Manvir who powered his Skoda Fabia R5 machine to victory when punctures stymied Tapio&rsquo;s run. Tapio led Manvir by 2:07minutes margin after the 84km four-stage loop prior to punctures galore which didn&rsquo;t just irk the &lsquo;Flying Finn&rsquo; but affected his good run on his title defence. &ldquo;It was a smooth sailing but going into the second loop, it was puncture after puncture. We really have to go back to the drawing board and re-examine things like tyre pressure and stuff,&rdquo; said Tapio&rsquo;s navigator, Gavin Laurence. Karan Patel won the KNRC division 1 class in a career best third overall with Farhaaz Khan finishing 5th and second behind the former. Outgoing Two Wheel Drive champion Eric Bengi also savoured a career best 6th position after a rather jinxed season. Raaji Bharij, a former Pirelli star driver, won the Classic car category in seventh position behind the wheel of a Ford Escort Mk1. Raaji hinted in service that they are working on a groundbreaking project well in time for the season ender. Jonathan Somen and Richard Hechle, in a Ford Escort, finished second in the classic category ahead of Ben Woodhams in a Ford Capri. Leonardo Varese won the Two wheel Drive Class. &ldquo;This rally has a special place in our hearts! Finishing 18th overall but most of all winning 2wd category, our fourth win of the season and a very healthy lead in the 2wd championship was quite encouraging. It was a very tough rally. Big thanks to our sponsors SportPesa without whom none of this would be possible. We look forward to the rest of the season. See you all in Nanyuki for KNRC round 5,&rdquo; said Varese. It was a bad day at the office though for some of the KNRC bigwigs with Tundo exiting with oil pump problems, Jassi Chatthe with mechanical problems and Onkar Rai who got caught out on a blind ditch after going off road. Other casualties in the event co-sponsored by KCB, Red Bull and Galleria Shopping Mall were Osman Abdullahi - brakes failure and Charles Hinga - broken suspension.