Umar Kasumba from Sports Club Villa and attacking midfielder Feni Ali from Uganda Revenue Authority have signed for SportPesa Premier League side Sofapaka FC as they seek to recapture the title they last won in 2009.Batoto Ba Mungu are currently sixth in the log with 20 points and the recruitment is part of their plan to ensure they do not find themselves in last season&rsquo;s season where they survived relegation. Coach Sam Ssimbwa expressed confidence that his team will surprise the odds especially after beefing up during this break. &ldquo;I recommended the signatures of the two Ugandan players because I have been monitoring their progress for a while. We will be ready after the break and I am sure we will give our opponents a run for their money. Our focus is jump in the top end after the break and I am confident this could be our turn,&rdquo; said Ssimbwa, who also hinted that four local players have also been brought on board.Two other foreigners&mdash;James Kasimbante and Petit Wanok&mdash;have been released to pavce way for the new recruits as per the KPL rules on international signings. The two were seen as surplus to requirements given the nature of competition. The team is planning to engage in two build-up matches before renewing rivalry against Gor Mahia on June 18.In the last campaign, businessman Elly Kalekwa&rsquo;s side survived the chop by a whisker. This time, however, the team is look composed and disciplined, thanks to the entry of a top seasoned tactician and sponsors. Ssimbwa tipped the team to do well considering they were not under pressure. &ldquo;When we look at the table, the perception is that it is almost a two-horse race. That narrative suits us because it makes us strike when unexpected. Sofapaka is capable of pulling surprises and we are warning our opponents to be on the look out because we are now more stronger,&rdquo; he added.The team resum training next Tuesday as they gauge the strength with the technical bench keen to assess fitness. &ldquo;It was deliberate that we do not get a long time off so that we keep the players in check. The friendlies will be important for us to try out formations and also bring in the new members to fit into our football philosophy.&rdquo;