Meru Governor Peter Munya has asked the President not to endorse Senator Kiraitu Murungi to consolidate Ameru votes ahead of the election.Likening this to a plague, Munya said President Uhuru Kenyatta should not back people using underhand means to get votes. "Meru has no problem re-electing Uhuru but let him stop endorsing or accompanying people known for backbiting and colluding with others. This will cause voter apathy," he said. He spoke at Mikinduri Primary School on Thursday while campaigning for PNU candidates.Murungi, a Jubilee politician, campaigned in Munya's backyards of Kianjai, Muthara, Kangeta, Mutuati and Maua after he was cleared by the IEBC on Thursday.The Governor said his opponents are using the provincial administration to undermine, harass and intimidate him.Munya said he as proof that the administration has been holding meeting sponsored by unknown organisations and discussing how to rig him out of the election."Meetings said to be for peace are being held at night to discuss how to rig votes. We will not condone any monkey business in Meru because people will guard their votes," he said."We cannot be harassed or intimidated by anybody. Whether they are using the provincial administration or [powerful individuals], they are wasting time. DCCs and commissioners neither have votes nor can they mobilise voters. Only chiefs can."The PNU leader noted the colonial period, during which people would be coerced into taking some actions, ended and that residents have the right to elect leaders with integrity and development in mind.&ldquo;I talked to Uhuru and he told me he will not endorse anyone but respect will of people. So the DCC's actions are not from the President.They are being bribed," he said.He added: "Madaraka Day celebrations were to be held here at Mikinduri, they changed the venue to Gikumene, and later to other places. Why read the President's speech in unknown corridors. Are you popularising the President or depressing him?"The celebrations took place at Nkubu stadium in South Imenti. County commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said they were notified of clashes in Mikinduri between politicians' supporters. He warned politicians who breach peace will be punished.