A family in Juja, Kiambu, was forced to bury a banana stem in place of their father's body, following a court ruling.Trouble started when family and friends went to Kenyatta University Mortuary to collect the body of Mzee Chege Kamau, who was 90 years old.They were slapped with a court injunction restraining them from burying the man on his Magomano farm in Theta ward.But a grave had been dug so elders convened an impromptu meeting at which it was resolved that a stem would be buried."According to the Kikuyu culture, once a grave is dug, it has to be filled because the deceased's ghosts will haunt his family for not burying him on a particular date," said Kikuyu elder Mzee Kariuki Wa Migwi."This may cause deaths in the family and therefore we had to plant the banana stem to wade off these ghosts."Migwi further said using a sprouting stem symbolised life and the future births of more children.Kikuyu elders bury a stem in place of Mzee Chege Kamau's body. /STANLEY NJENGAThe elder warned that those who defied the wishes of the dead man will have themselves to blame when the wrath of his spirit descends on them.The ceremony was administered by only those installed as elders after undergoing all the Kikuyu rituals pertaining to this.&ldquo;No one can carry or bury this stem if they have not completed all the ritual. Deviating from these norms may result in untold calamities for those concerned," Migwi said on Tuesday.Peter Kamau, the deceased's eldest son, told how his three sisters secretly obtained the court order stopping their father's burial.The banana stem that Kikuyu elders buried instead of Mzee Chege Kamau's body. /STANLEY NJENGAThe bone of contention is that their father wanted to be buried in Juja where he had been living with his youngest wife. The daughters did not agree to this and wanted him buried next to their mother in Gitwe village, Gatundu South.&ldquo;My sisters have plunged us in a mess. mY father made his wishes very clear...I will not be part of any drama or a court case. I am off this matter. Let them do whatever they want with his remains,&rdquo; said Kamau.His sentiments were echoed by his step-mother Mary Njoki who confirmed of her husband wanted to be buried in Juja.&ldquo;When Mzee died on May 30, I called my step-son and informed him. He requested me to make arrangements to have him taken to the morgue as they were not nearby," she said."The following day, my step-daughters came and insisted that we transfer the body to Gatundu but I objected. It was then that they told me to go ahead with my burial plans as they were done with me."She said her suspicion is that the daughters do not want her living on their father's land which they want to reclaim.