Two unique attacks, you would say, happened this week. The first was the Finsbury Park attack in which attacker Darren Osborne rammed a van into worshippers helping an elderly man who had collapsed outside a mosque on Monday, shouting,&rdquo;I want to kill all Muslims&rdquo;. On Sunday, a Muslim teen was kidnapped outside a Virginia,US, mosque and killed.Neighbours of Osborne, the non-Muslim Cardiff man arrested after the attack, said he had become increasingly deranged after Islamist extremists used a vehicle and knives in a murderous rampage in London this month. This doesn&rsquo;t excuse the fact that his actions are no different from those he was supposedly retaliating for. He is a terrorist. The Times referred to him as a jobless &lsquo;lone wolf&rsquo;.And this is not as unique as many would think. Al Jazeera&rsquo;s Mehdi Hassan has been writing on European and US ignorance of radicalisation and extremism in their own states. Now even the non-Muslims are being radicalised and/or fighting back. A recent study in Britain, which has been experiencing its worst terrorist atrocity since 2005, revealed that more than two out of three &ldquo;Islamism-inspired&rdquo; terrorist offenses were carried out by individuals &ldquo;who were either born or raised in the UK.&rdquo;It, therefore, occurs that the common stereotype of the Middle Eastern, Muslim-born terrorist is not just lazy and inaccurate, but also easy fodder for the anti-immigrant, anti-Islam far right. The 52-year-old perpetrator of the London attack, Khalid Masood, was born and brought up in the UK and would not have been affected in the slightest by a travel ban on Muslims from the Middle East. He was neither a refugee nor an immigrant. Now if we try and relate this with our situation in Kenya, there are quite some similarities. Despite the talk of building a wall on the Kenya-Somalia border, we have had many attacks inspired, planned and executed by people within Kenyan borders.In October 2011, Elgiva Oliacha Bwire, 28, was given a life sentence after he pleaded guilty for two grenade attacks in the Nairobi CBD. During his arrest he was found with six guns, 13 grenades and hundreds of bullets in his house in Kayole. He was not an ethnic Somali or a Muslim as the silly notion in Kenya assumes. He had, however, changed his name to Mohamed Saif. He came from Busia and attended schools in Nairobi. He was brought up in a Catholic family. In the 2010 Kampala attacks, a suicide bomber identified, as Kakasule was from Kakamega in Western province. Others who were arraigned in court include Sheikh Idriss Magondu (Christopher Magondu) Habib Suleiman Njoroge and Yahya Suleiman Mbuthia.The pre-modern terror mostly involved groups such as Jewish Zealots, who carried out terror in the name of religion. They propagated this terror using the sword, which was their trademark. This for some time changed to guns, grenades and bombs. And modern terrorists don&rsquo;t even need any of that: Just a truck and a knife. We are now seeing more of the pre-modern stunts today. The question is, how do we deal with this? As we move forward, security forces need to develop new methods to prevent radicalisation and such inspired attacks.And as National Counter Terrorism Centre director Martin Kimani has said, blind allegiance to tribe, clan, ethnicity and region makes us vulnerable to terrorism because it is these divisions that terrorists exploit. In the UK case, we already have Islamophobia that has created a vicious circle that has produced Osborne. How do we ensure we don&rsquo;t have more Bwires here?