JOE Nyagah may not have said much since he was cleared by the IEBC to run for President, but his quiet activities are raising concerns among some Jubilee people. We are told by some people at Jubilee House are worried the former Cabinet minister may attract significant votes from the larger Meru/Embu region, which his father represented in Parliament for nearly 30 years. The Jubilee people are particularly worried that if this happens, then President Uhuru Kenyatta could be in trouble. Their biggest worries so far arose yesterday, hours after Nyagah gave KTN an interview that seemed to generate positive discussions. ***** ANXIETY has gripped State House officials, after certain equipment was delivered to the House on the Hill. The equipment is rumoured to be for voter tallying during the August 8 polls. The Star broke the story after JP officials met in Nakuru to discuss how they will conduct vote tallying. The Star is closely following the developments and will publish the details on where the party will establish its tallying centre in a number of weeks. ***** IS Inspector General Joseph Boinnet aware that several police officers who were recently transferred from various stations to Malindi are stranded after the local command refused to receive them? Corridors is aware that 12 of the cops who reported at the Malindi police station have spent 10 nights at the police canteen as they wait to be received. The OCS, OCPD and Kilifi county commander have all snubbed them, with reports emerging that the police bosses travelled to Nairobi to prevail on headquarters to rescind the transfers. Those who were transferred out of Kilifi county are yet to handover and report to their new stations. ***** AN ODM governor aspirant from Western Kenya who controversially won the April nominations has surprised elected leaders in the county by his latest bid to form a single campaign team of all elected leaders for NASA leader Raila Odinga, where Raila enjoys fanatical support and faces no known challenge. A group of MCA nominees yesterday laughed off the matter, intimating to Corridors that the governor has realised the danger from his main rival, who was rigged out in the nominations, and is now running as an independent. Corridors also learnt the governor wants to get support from the party nominees and is using the &lsquo;Raila Campaign&rsquo; to cleverly use them in supporting his bid. ***** A staunch Jubilee Party senator known for defending UhuRuto&rsquo;s administration met his NASA match, who laid bare the government&rsquo;s manifesto failures. Word has it that the opposition legislator whom once branded him a Jubilee mole, was armed with UhuRuto&rsquo;s 2013 manifesto on the phone and his references pinpointing the ruling administration&rsquo;s failures during the argument, drove the senator into dead silence and heavy breathing.