Some Wiper MPs want the party to revoke National Assembly&rsquo;s Minority Whip Francis Nyenze&rsquo;s nomination for Kitui West MP. They have accused him of receiving millions of shillings from the Jubilee administration to destabilise Wiper.Nyenze was among 12 NASA National Coordinating Committee members that were charged with identifying a presidential candidate. He has been accused of sending mixed signals to NASA, raising doubts about his allegiance. In March, when the NASA committee was burning the midnight oil to arrive at a joint presidential candidate, Nyenze who had been sitting in all the meetings, fired the first shot by threatening that Wiper will go it alone if party leader Kalonzo Musyoka is not given the ticket.He wanted the committee to be guided by the 2013 secret MoU between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Kalonzo, which gave the Wiper leader automatic support from Raila in 2017. &ldquo;If Kalonzo is not going to be the presidential candidate, there will be no NASA,&rdquo; Nyenze said in March.Wiper, through secretary general Hassan Omar, dismissed the minority leader&rsquo;s ultimatum as a personal opinion.In April, Nyenze, who according to Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr is on the Jubilee&rsquo;s payroll, was at it again, saying it will be an uphill task to convince the Kamba community to vote for any arrangement with Kalonzo playing second fiddle.This time round, the whip was joined by former Wiper chairman David Musila, who had just resigned from the party after accusing Kalonzo of favouring incumbent Julius Malombe in the Kitui governor nominations.Last week, the Kitui West MP fired another salvo, when he publicly endorsed President Uhuru Kenyatta for a second term, and urged the Kambas to reelect him.&ldquo;Let us not be swayed by politics of empty rhetoric by those alleging President Uhuru has not worked well. The truth is Uhuru Kenyatta has done a lot and we will elect those whose work can be seen,&rdquo; Nyenze said at Kauwi Primary School in Kitui county.Yesterday, Mutula accused Nyenze of receiving money from Jubilee to have Kalonzo exit NASA and now that he has failed, he is out to paint a failed leadership in Kalonzo&rsquo;s Ukambani turf. &ldquo;We are all aware that was his [Nyenze] brief, since he was unable to deliver,&rdquo; Mutula said on the phone. Wiper yesterday threatened to make Nyenze&rsquo;s allegiance an item of discussion in the next National Executive Committee meeting later this week. Executive director Jared Siso rubbished Nyenze&rsquo;s claims of Uhuru&rsquo;s performance, saying his regime has been a massive failures. &ldquo;Nyenze is quite aware of the consequences of campaigning for a rival party. Wiper will no doubt be seeking a clarification from Nyenze as to whether he has shifted his allegiance from our party to Jubilee candidate, after which we will chart the way forward,&rdquo; Siso said in a statement to newsrooms.