Six players are likely to skip camp as the national Under-23 women&rsquo;s volleyball team begin non-residential training today at Nyayo Stadium ahead of the World Championship in August. The global show will take place between August 27 to September 3, in Ljubljana and Maribor, Slovenia respectively. Those missing from camp are&mdash;hard-hitting Pamela Masaisai, Meldine Sande and Teresia Ekai from Prisons. Others are former Kenya Under-23 captain Pauline Wafula (KCB) and Nairobi Water duo of Maureen Okiri and Damaris Chepkorom. Masaisai, Sande and Ekai are reported to have started training at the Kenya Prisons Staff Training College in Ruiri yesterday while Nairobi Water duo of Okiri and Chepkorom have joined Kenya Defence Forces. Wafula is away on personal reasons. Team manager Martin Makokha confirmed themove but was quick to note that they are doing everything possible to ensure players from the Kenya Prisons link up with the squad soon.He said the players were scheduled to start training yesterday but it wasn&rsquo;t possible considering most players had just arrived after last weekend&rsquo;s KVF league in Laikipia. &ldquo;I understandable why the players didn&rsquo;t make it to the training yesterday as most of them were away in Laikipia for the fourth leg of the KVF national league and fatigue might have set in,&rdquo; said Makokha. &ldquo;As for the players who have been recruited in KDF, we are happy for them and we wish them well. We have appealed to Prisons&rsquo; management to release the players who have received call up to the national team. They are good players and their services are needed,&rdquo; he said Makokha. He added: &ldquo;Our goal is to start training early as our hope is to register good result. This can only be achieved through early preparations.&rdquo;The team under the stewardship of former international player Catherine Mabwi and Kenya Prisons women&rsquo;s team assistant coach Josp Barasa qualified for the event after they finished second behind eventual winner Egypt during last year&rsquo;s qualifiers staged in Nairobi. Provisional squad: Veronica Tanui, Yvonne Sinaida, Edna Mwombe, Beldine Akinyi and libero Cellestine Nyongesa (Pipeline); Anne Lowem, shyrene Chepkemboi, Joan Ngenywa, Lilian Lelei, Caro Sirengo, Teresia Keya and libero Sarah Were (Prisons); Doreen Marani, Lucy Sakong&rsquo; and Shyreline Sembei (KCB); Faith Imodia (St Paul&rsquo;s University) and Metrine Wafula (Western Bombers).