Jubilee Cheranganyi MP candidate Joshua Kuttuny has told President Uhuru Kenyatta not to panic over NASA's perceived threats against his re-election bid. Kuttuny said Uhuru should be assured of victory because NASA has no capacity to beat Jubilee in the August 8 polls. He said Uhuru and DP William Ruto should rest easy if the warm reception they have received in areas perceived to be NASA strongholds is anything to go by. "In 2013, Jubilee had difficulties in such areas. But this time, they have been welcoming Uhuru and Ruto very well and that means we will get many votes from there." He spoke at Tuigoin, Cheranganyi during the launch of last mile connectivity projects by Kenya Power CEO Ken Tarus in the area. Uhuru is facing off with Raila Odinga - Nasa flag bearer. Eight candidates were cleared by IEBC to contest the country's top seat. Read: NASA has no agenda but to plunge the country into violence - CS Wamalwa Kuttuny, who is Uhuru's political adviser, said the Jubilee administration has delivered on most of its 2013 pledges to the electorate. "Kenyans will give them five more years to govern the country." He said that in 2013, Uhuru won with 50%+1 margin and will garner a clearer win of above 70 per cent of the votes that will be cast this year. Kuttuny further asked Uhuru and Ruto not be worried about their support in stronghold areas of Rift Valley and Central among other regions. "It only requires voters to come out in large numbers on August 8 for Jubilee to secure the win." "Uhuru’s record in the last five years makes him the best president to continue serving Kenyans. NASA has no record or agenda to sell to Kenyans," Kuttuny said. Tarus said more than Sh800 million was spent in the first phase of the last mile connectivity project in Trans Nzoia county. "More funds will be allocated in the second phase. We have now ensured that more than 56 per cent of Trans Nzoia residents are connected to the main electricity grid," Tarus said. He said by the year 2020, all Kenyans will be connected for rapid growth, especially in the rural areas.  