A 28-year-old woman is crying for justice after she was detained at Lang&rsquo;ata Hospital.The woman identified only as Ann says she fears for her life. Her ordeal started on Monday when she asked her husband for money. She wanted to attend pre-natal clinic as she is five months pregnant, but her husband, Lawrence Kazungu, a police constable at Vigilance House, turned violent and assaulted her.Ann said after kicking her several times, Kazungu picked a stool and hit her repeatedly. Kazungu could not be reached for comment and a text from the Star went unanswered.Ann said when she went to Lang&rsquo;ata police station to report the matter, the OCS volunteered to take her to Lang&rsquo;ata Hospital for medical assistance.&ldquo;The OCS even pledged to pay my bills at Lang&rsquo;ata Hospital when I told him I wanted to go to Nairobi Women&rsquo;s Hospital,&rdquo; she said.The OCS then dropped her at the hospital and left, and she was treated and discharged, but could not raise the medical fees. She tried to reach the OCS and her husband but both did not pick her calls, leaving her at the mercy of the hospital&rsquo;s management.&ldquo;They took me to a room and locked me inside, saying I had to pay the charges before they let me go.&rdquo;Ann went for two days without food and water. The hospital denied her medication, and she is now weak from hunger and in pain from the injuries she suffered when her husband hit her. Ann lives in Nairobi with her husband. She sought journalists&rsquo; contacts after she realised no help was coming from her family and the police. She says her husband may have colluded with the police to keep her from pursuing the case.Lang&rsquo;ata Hospital said the woman was treated in an emergency case and discharged on Tuesday. However, on being asked what she is still doing at the hospital, the woman on the call, who requested anonymity, said she could not comment further on the case and hang up.Ann is calling out to well-wishers to help clear her bill of Sh12,000 and leave the hospital. She is also concerned that her stay at the hospital and the prolonged lack of food may harm her unborn baby. Lang&rsquo;ata police chief Elijah Mwangi yesterday said investigations are ongoing. He said it is a private matter because the incident did not happen while the officer was in the line of duty. &ldquo;I have talked to his [Kazungu&rsquo;s] seniors at Vigilance to allow him to come over and help with investigations.&rdquo; He said Ann reported the case at Lang&rsquo;ata police station on Tuesday morning and went to hospital [St. Mary&rsquo;s] before returning to the station.Mwangi said the woman developed complications while at the station and the OCS rushed her to the nearby Lang&rsquo;ata Hospital, where she is being detained.