The NGO Coordination
Board has awarded Sonko Rescue Team as the best performing charity
organization in the country. Chief executive
Fazul Mohammed presented the recognition award and a trophy to
Senator Mike Sonko. This was during the Jubilee Nairobi aspirants'
strategy meeting at Stedmak hotel on Thursday. Fazul said that
the organisation, which was registered as an NGO last month, has been
steadfast in responding to humanitarian needs in the capital. "Sonko Rescue Team
has helped the vulnerable, it has responded emergencies and offered
free health services," he said. He revealed that the
Board was reaching out to donors to help the Team so that it can reach
as many people as possible. "This organisation
is not like others. The county has requested me several
times to close down Sonko Rescue Team but I told them no," he said. Speaking while
receiving the award, Sonko outlined how his organisation has helped many
poor residents. "Today as we
speak, we have ferried 18 bodies upcountry using our hearses. We took
several others to hospitals using our ambulances." The organisation carries out a number of services but these have been argued should be the county's responsibility. They include garbage collection, sinking boreholes,
supplying water to slum dwellers and offering free emergency
services. It has a fleet of vehicles including a hearse, ambulance, water
bowser, garbage truck, and a limousine for weddings. The senator, now governor candidate, said the organisation has
also acquired pothole patching machine to repair the roads in the
city. On Sunday, ODM Nairobi woman representative Esther Passaris claimed
the government is funding the organisation to frustrate Governor
Evans Kidero's administration. Read: State funding Sonko Rescue Team to frustrate Kidero, claims Passaris But Sonko refuted the claims saying the team is being funded by
donors who have been impressed by the work it has done. "We have donors from France, Spain, Germany and
Belgium who are willing to help us." Also read: Sonko accuses Kidero of attempting to clamp Rescue Team garbage trucks More on this: Kidero orders seizure of Sonko Rescue Team vehicles, says cars lack valid licences