A Limuru widow whose husband died from drinking illicit alcohol has criticised NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga for saying he would legalise traditional brews.During a rally on Friday at Sirisia Grounds in Bungoma, Raila said his administration would legalise and regulate production and consumption of traditional brews.But 28-year-old Damaris Kathambi yesterday termed the remark &ldquo;insensitive to widowed mothers&rdquo; and accused NASA of lacking campaign agenda.Her husband, Harrison Karanja, died in May 2014, five years after they married. He was a farmer and kept livestock. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m bitter with the NASA leader for saying he will legalise chang&rsquo;aa if he ascends to power. He is being insensitive, ignorant and careless to the plight of many women and parents, who have lost their husbands and sons to consumption of such brews,&rdquo; Kathambi said.&ldquo;Raila should apologise to me and my husband&rsquo;s kin and many others who have gone through agony and ordeals. It&rsquo;s painful to know my son will neither see his dad again, nor feel his affection and tenderness because of the lethal brews.&rdquo;Karanja and his three nephews were among 10 people who died after consuming an illicit brew.About 30 people consumed the poisonous liquor at Kiawamwaki farm in Nazareth village, Limuru East ward, Limuru constituency.The incident hit the headlines and prompted the government to sack some provincial administration officers. The drink was said to have contained methanol. Kathambi, a shopkeeper at Nazareth shopping centre, said her husband&rsquo;s death was her darkest hour. &ldquo;If it were not for my husband&rsquo;s family, more so his brothers who have always stood with me, where would I be? What about those who lose their husbands and get no support from their in-laws?&rdquo; she said.Karanja, together with his colleagues, had complained of blurred vision, then blindness and shortness of breath. They were taken to Nazareth Hospital, about two kilometres away, and transferred to Tigoni, Kenyatta National and Kiambu hospitals.&ldquo;I was not at home them, but relatives told me that after finishing his chores, my husband joined his friends in the bush, where they routinely met and drank chang&rsquo;aa,&rdquo; Kathambi said.&ldquo;They drank and after some hours, they started complaining, saying they couldn&rsquo;t see.&rdquo;She advises widows who have lost their husbands to illicit brews to move on with life courageously.Kathambi also urges in-laws to support widows so they feel loved and appreciated, &ldquo;as this is the only gift they hope for&rdquo;.&ldquo;I am living happily with my husband&rsquo;s relatives and I my son will school and get a better job under our care,&rdquo; she adds.Raila&rsquo;s remarks have been condemned by Jubilee leaders, including DP William Ruto, who want him to apologise. Raila stood his ground. &ldquo;There is nothing wrong with Kenya expanding business as long as the brews are regulated,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t mean it would be consumed without control. Uganda legalised chang&rsquo;aa and set up a brewery, which processes waragi. They take the chang&rsquo;aa from women, who brew it, and refine it.&ldquo;In Tanzania, it is called konyagi. What is wrong with us processing the brew and calling it chang&rsquo;aa?&rdquo;The ODM leader said the NASA administration will be sensitive to the economic plight of the poor.He said, &ldquo;Our police spend a lot of time chasing and arresting people consuming chang&rsquo;aa, instead of going for those stealing from public coffers.&rdquo;On July 4, 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared all-out war on illicit alcohol, terming it the business of death. That resulted in massive property damage, settling personal scores and the business going underground.Much alcohol was destroyed, but it&rsquo;s coming back with a vengeance, especially in the election season.