To all Kenyans, the manifestos sound good.Manifestos are good political tools for politicians to negotiate their interests. They don&rsquo;t factor in much to safeguard the interests of voters.In terms of the real substance, the likelihood that an ordinary voter will vote on the basis of the manifesto is very limited.Voters have already made up their minds, not because the manifesto or other document being presented is good, but because people vote based on the character of the person and his/her personality. They don&rsquo;t vote based on the credibility and professionalism, but basically the character and personality. That is why we have wananchi voting in people with criminal records. It is unfortunate that they completely give a blackout to individuals with a credible record. Some even vote based on comics.People rarely vote based on manifestos.And politicians know this. They have taken advantage and are using the manifesto to negotiate with business cartels. Most of the manifestos are largely on projects that politicians and financiers have interests in. The manifestos have projects that can give the cartels businesses to exploit taxpayers.That is why the manifestos are secretly used to source funds across the political cycle. It is a tool to bargain with and helps in political negotiations. They are documents to support political business. You may say the needs of the people are roads, railways and other mega infrastructures. But do roads have a direct implication on an ordinary voter in the rural areas! A rural voter is interested in Agriculture, storing and the market. They also want to access good healthcare and education, among other things. Does building the SGR and roads benefit them or not?People don&rsquo;t vote based whether you have presented the manifesto or not. They made their minds up sometime back and are headed to the next election knowing where to cast their votes.They believe in personality and trust.For instance, let&rsquo;s be honest. What Jubilee Party presented contains the same issues presented in 2013, but it failed to deliver. Very few people know the impact of the manifesto on the country, and how it can transform lives. They are the same people who discuss and brainstorm on the manifesto since they are informed.A politician and the person who trades with the government look at the manifesto as the next frontier of procurement.Wainaina is a constitutional expert