Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has criticised Majority Leader Aden Duale for claiming Chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Mohdhar wants to divide Muslims in Kenya. Duale, via Twitter on Saturday, asked Muslims to disregard the Chief Kadhi who had announced that Eid-ul-Fitr will be celebrated on Monday. A section of Muslims celebrated Eid on Sunday, while others celebrated on Monday. "I urge the Muslim Umma to disregard the confusion that the Chief Kadhi (Kenya) wants to use to divide the Muslim Umma in our country." On Monday, Omar said those who celebrated Eid on Sunday and those who celebrated it on Monday are right and within the confines of the law and the Quran. "Those who disagree on this fail to understand that the law accepts those who prayed yesterday and those who prayed today," Omar said. He spoke after attending the Eid prayers at the Ronald Ngala grounds in Mvita constituency, Mombasa. The Mombasa governor hopeful said is it not right to cause division among Muslims on the basis of Eid prayer days. "My brother Aden Duale should not be throwing words at anybody at any time. Our Chief Kadhi is not a Jubilee of NASA activist. “The Chief Kadhi (position) is an institution of Muslim leadership," said Omar. He said even if he is wrong, there are better ways to critique the Chief Kadhi. "Everyone in this country has their place. There are religious leaders, political leaders, carpenters, and fishermen. All have their own skills. Do not interfere with anyone’s job unless you ask them why they do what they do," Omar said. The Senator said Cheif Kadhi Mohdhar has no political platform to answer Duale. He said the Garissa Township MP should seek advice from any Muslim scholar about the Eid guidelines. Muslims in the country have traditionally differed on the correct day to end the 30-day fasting in the holy month of Ramadhan. One group of Muslims is of the opinion that faithful should break the 30-day fasting month upon sighting f the moon anywhere in the world, while another says this should be done upon the sighting of the moon within the locality one is in. "Both sets are correct in sharia. It is not right to mock someone based on that,” said Omar. He said this is the reason Muslim faithful must seek more knowledge. "I ask Muslims in the whole country not to differ based on this issue," the Senator said. Also read: Joho, Shahbal embrace during Eid prayers, call for peaceful polls      