I am beginning to think that some government institutions are not serious with the work they do. Things are done just as a matter of routine.Records are kept just for the sake of keeping records, nothing more than that.One goes to work because that is the way to earn a salary and keep a title that gives one an identity in society. Such titles help to place families in certain categories, and give them safety. At times, people cheat on where they work and what they do so as to appear more important when they utter a false identity. This should not happen at the IEBC, especially in an election year such as this. Being an employee of the IEBC, an institution trusted with so much responsibility of nurturing our democracy through free and fair elections, should mean something to all those who work there. They must be men and women of impeccable integrity.When it comes to serious work such as running an election and ensuring that candidates behave in a certain way, the IEBC officials and the law enforcement agencies need to take their work much more seriously if we are to build a stable, meaningful and sustainable democratic political system.I will simply take one example and illustrate it with what has recently happened to me and my colleague Fred Outa in Kisumu county. What has happened to us can happen to any other candidate, standing for any other office, in the Republic of Kenya. And I believe there must be some other candidates who have already gone through a similar experience. When we presented our papers for registration by the IEBC as candidates in the August election, we signed a &ldquo;code of conduct&rdquo;, in which we committed ourselves to carry out our campaigns peacefully, lawfully and respectful of all electoral laws and the Constitution. We have, since then, done exactly that, notwithstanding the many provocations we have received from our main opponent in this electoral contest.On Friday June 2, soon after I presented my nomination papers at the Tom Mboya Labour College, my team and I decided to drive around the city of Kisumu to thank the people for having nominated me as the ODM candidate for Kisumu governor. When we reached Kondele, a popular neighbourhood straddling the Kisumu-Kakamega Road, I stopped to speak to the crowd that was very enthusiastic to see me. No sooner had I emerged on top of the car to speak than some security fellow shot a tear gas canister under my car for no good reason. Three more tear gas canisters were lobbed into the crowd, which at that particular time was scampering for safety, temporarily blinded and wondering what had gone wrong! We nonetheless drove away and decided to go straight through a different route to the Kenyatta Sports Ground, where we finally addressed a mammoth crowd: The mother of all crowds!Question: Why was it necessary to disperse a peaceful crowd using tear gas? We had all along been escorted by a Land Rover full the AP officers, who witnessed this incident. Was it one of these APs who shot the tear gas canister or was it a plainclothes security officer who did it, leaving the APs equally puzzled by the incident? If it was a plainclothes officer who did it, in whose interest did he do it? Why has the IEBC not made any statement about this incident since it is obviously a breach of the Code of Conduct that guarantees us maximum security from the state during the campaign period? Has the police investigated this incident, and why have I not been interrogated about it?Last Saturday, June 10, Outa, the MP for Nyando, attended a funeral of the late lawyer Miruka Owuor in his own constituency in the neighbourhood of Ahero urban centre. Mourners were treated to a barrage of speeches by independent candidates, hell-bent on disparaging ODM and its candidates in the forthcoming election. When Outa stood up to speak, he was manhandled by goons shouting hostile slogans, as independent candidates, including Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, simply sat by and enjoyed the spectacle.Outa was rescued by the police, who whisked him away to his car in the midst of political pandemonium. As he was just about to enter his car, an unknown gunman shot through the windscreen, missing the MP narrowly as he was just about to sit and drive away. No sooner than the car started to speed off than did yet another fellow throw a huge stone into the car through the rear right windscreen, smashing the glass to pieces. Outa reported this incident to the police, but no public statement has been made nor a single arrest in connection with the case. This could mean that little or no investigation has been going on. The IEBC, and Francis ole Kaparo&rsquo;s National Integration and Cohesion Commission are also quiet regarding election-related violence.Be that as it may, I want to propose that the IEBC signs a Code of Conduct in public with the national security agencies. It is not too late. They can actually sign a modified version of the Code of Conduct we candidates have signed. This Code of Conduct should commit every county commissioner, in the company of all heads of security agencies in the county, to address the press on security related issues during the election. Such press conferences would allow candidates, or their agents, to raise questions on security matters, and report incidents where their opponents have behaved badly, thereby breaching the Code of Conduct.The use of public facilities by public officials during elections is yet another thorny issue. During Madaraka Day in Nyeri, the President and the Deputy President decided to use a public holiday purely for campaign purposes, thereby denying the leader of the opposition, Raila Odinga, the opportunity to address the nation as indeed the government leaders had done. Article 9( 5 ) of the Constitution directs that &ldquo;Parliament may enact legislation prescribing other public holidays, and providing for observance of public holidays.&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t think that Parliament has carried out this responsibility.I would like to call upon the 12th Parliament, our successors, to ensure that this is done so that we can avoid such acts of national shame as we witnessed in Nyeri. It does not matter who the leader of the opposition is; that position should be treated at all times with the dignity it deserves.The IEBC never uttered a word about the Nyeri incident. The IEBC has not uttered a word about the way in which public officials are being used to drive the agenda of certain candidates in this election almost everywhere in this country. I urge the IEBC to be more vigilant than it has so far been so that all candidates may have confidence in the electoral process. For example, a governor employing a child of a senior security officer in a county at a time such as this is an obvious sign of seeking favours using public office. How can the IEBC turn a a blind eye to such incidents, when they obviously show the likelihood of a senior security officer being biased at a time like this?