This year’s presidential campaign is different from all previous such preliminaries.  Traditional news media and social media are full of news coverage and analyses of the build-up to the epic second and final clash between Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga in the race for State House. Every utterance and most body language moves are being watched and widely interpreted, mined for significance and the way forward. The main contenders are President Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila, respectively the sons of Kenya’s founding President and founding Vice President. They have strategy teams that feature some of the country’s most eminent professionals and academics. Eyebrows shot up across the political divide, however, when National Super Alliance flagbearer on the ODM ticket Raila told a top British newspaper that he would dismantle white-owned ranches in Laikipia to prevent chaos if he unseats President Uhuru. Raila told the Times of London, “These ranches are too big and the people don’t even live there; they live in Europe and only come once in a while.” He went on, “There’s need for rationalisation to ensure there’s more productive use of that land.” As the Star reported on June 12, under the headline “Raila to dismantle white-owned ranches in Laikipia if elected President”, even NASA spokeswoman Kathleen Openda could not believe this.  Openda exclaimed that the Times story was “fake news”. She went on, “This is fake. Raila has not and cannot make those kinds of remarks. He is responsible enough to know that land issues are sensitive and those reports can only be termed as fake news.” There was conflict and insecurity in Laikipia during the recent prolonged drought as armed cattle herders descended on the white-owned conservancies and smallholder African shambas, driving tens of thousands of animals ahead of them.  There were fatalities. The Laikipia herders killed a dozen people, including British rancher Tristan Voorspuy.  A number of reports say the herders have not left Laikipia completely, despite rain falling in their home areas. Jubilee strategists could not believe their ears either and attacked Raila remorselessly online, speaking darkly of his planning to do a Robert Mugabe-style land-grab in Kenya with not dissimilar disastrous results for the national economy. Typifying Raila as “Ojinga”, Jubilee Party bloggers interpreted his remarks to the Times as being a sure sign that he would rule by decree, issuing executive orders a la Donald Trump. Dismantling white-owned landholdings would be a drastic measure and a sign of more dire things to come surely. A Star reader with the avatar “mukunyembe” commented online on Wednesday, “This guy is allergic to investors, remember the rice (dominion guy debacle with him in Kisumu) remember saying rent will be controlled or otherwise (we know what his goons did in Kibera by forcefully possessing people's houses. TRUE our very own Mugabe”. Closing down the lodges is easier said than done. The ranchers responded to Raila’s remarks in the Times of London with a statement. The Laikipia Farmers’ Association, which groups farmers, ranchers and conservationists in the country, were particularly unhappy with Raila’s remarks and pointed out that they pumped Sh10 billion into the county economy in only three years, between 2014 and 2016. As the Star reported on Monday, “Last week, Sosian lodge was closed indefinitely after continued attacks by bandits leading to loss of lives and destruction of property worth millions of shillings. Richard Constant, one of the directors of Sosian ranch, said the decision was reached by the management, which said the lodge will be reopened once it is safe”. The Laikipia ranches remarks were Raila’s first major goof of this Presidential campaign, a race he and his handlers had managed with unusual smoothness and pitilessness up to that point in time.  When JP and other commentators accused him of inciting violence by signaling that the sprawling ranches in Laikipia county are owned by foreign absentee landlords, he denied making the remarks. But the Times journalist who interviewed him was adamant he had made them not once but thrice in the course of the interview and was adamant she quoted him accurately. Seven out of 30 tourism lodges in Laikipia have closed since Christmas due to violent attacks. On March 6 Britain urged Kenya to quell escalating violence in Laikipia after Brirish rancher Voorspuy was shot dead by suspected invading herders. London issued an email alert on the situation in Laikipia that read, “Kenya travel advice, 06-03-2017 10:29 AM GMT. Latest update: Safety and security section (Local travel) — on 5 March 2017, a British national was murdered on his Laikipia ranch as he went to investigate damage caused by invaders.” British High Commissioner Nic Hailey said he had repeatedly conveyed Britain’s concern over the situation in Laikipia to the Government of Kenya. Raila’s apparently unguarded remarks to the Times were no doubt noted by the authorities in London, as was the swift denial and the interviewer’s standing her ground. 