Hawkers are now faking disability, carrying babies to the streets and coming late in the evening in their new clever tactics to outwit the Nairobi county inspectorate officers.The tactics, which could force city askaris to go back to the drawing board to remove them from the CBD, are aimed at evading and winning the sympathy of the city askaris to allow them operate in the city centre.&ldquo;This is our county and we have to survive. Where do they want us to go? We will be here unless they want us to steal,&rdquo; hawker Michael Wambugu said. Alice Mueni, a hawker operating right in front of EastMatt Supermarket on Tom Mboya Street, says she has not been arrested or harassed by the askaris since she started coming to the streets with her two-year-old baby a year ago. Some of them are now avoiding the main streets during the day for fear of arrest and are operating in the back streets or corridors in the city centre. Corrupt City Hall officers, politics and cheap cost of the hawkers' wares have also made the business to thrive. According to a hawker operating on Ronald Ngala street, some of them are working for senior officials at City Hall. &ldquo;This business is not mine. I'm working for my boss. I remit at least Sh40,000 per day,&rdquo; he told the Star. In July last year, Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke said corrupt officials, shortage of enforcement officers and having only day shifts at City Hall had led to lawlessness and disorder in the city centre. &ldquo;Our officers report to work at 8am and leave at 5pm. This leaves hawkers, street families and those illegally dumping garbage the entire night to do their ugly things,&rdquo; Mueke said on Tuesday. Of the 2,300 inspectorate officers, 1,450 are watchmen guarding schools, hospitals and other county facilities. This leaves the county with only 850 officers for enforcement, he said.The hawkers have mastered the askaris' working schedule and they know the time they come to the streets, the time they leave and names of officers manning specific streets.County secretary Robert Ayisi admitted the county is facing challenges in its attempts to remove the street vendors from the CBD.&ldquo;We have had all these cases, especially of some of them faking disability and coming with babies. But we are working and following the law. It is illegal for them to operate in city centre,&rdquo; he said. Ayisi said shortage of law enforcement officers has affected the county's attempts to remove the hawkers from the city centre.