Homa Bay county has always been the bedrock of ODM and party leader Raila Odinga in the larger Nyanza region. It is the only county which elected its governor, senator, its eight MPs and most of its MCAs on the party ticket. Other non-ODM ward representatives were elected on Cord-affiliate parties. It used to be that whoever Raila endorses or whoever wins the party ticket would get an automatic ticket to Parliament. The candidates would even go on holiday and campaign for only a few weeks before the election. However, this now seems uncertain, especially after the shambolic primaries. It seems the ground has shifted, even for seasoned and vocal politicians who had been convincing electorates that they will help Baba (Raila) to search for votes outside the party strongholds. Safe after direct ticket?
At the moment, only woman representative Gladys Wanga is on the safe side as she was given a direct nomination ticket by the party to defend her second term in Parliament. She has, however, been mandated to ensure NASA gets maximum votes in Nyanza, alongside nominated Senator Oburu Oginga. Missing in Raila’s campaign team is party chairman John Mbadi, the Suba MP. Mbadi was given the party ticket after numerous court battles with Raila’s former aide Caroli Omondi, who alleged that the MP was unfairly declared winner in the primaries. Peter Otieno Ocholla, Caroli’s brother, will be contesting against Mbadi on the Ford Kenya ticket. Opondo Kaluma also faces an uphill task in Homa Bay Town constituency, following the entry of the former Rangwe MP, Martine Ogindo. Ogindo was legislator between 2007-12 and is running on the Green Congress of Kenya ticket, a party in which he is the patron. He supports Raila’s bid for President. Tough competition
Ogindo has kept Kaluma on his toes and has always been a foot soldier of Raila. Kaluma has maintained his grassroots campaigns. Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo seems not very worried as she seeks a third term in Parliament. Being the only elected woman in Nyanza on the party ticket, Millie seems to be more confident about retaining her seat against arch rival Jim Akali. Sylvance Osele (Kasipul), George Oner (Rangwe) and Agostinho Neto of Ndhiwa lost in the party primaries, but have kept their opponents on their toes. The major battle is expected in the governor seat between incumbent Cyprian Awiti, the ODM nominee and Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. Magwanga claimed his victory in the ODM primaries was stolen and registered as an independent. He is a big threat to Awiti. The governor, however, has admitted that his government has performed below expectations, but has promised to constitute a new team to man