Kenyans are still mourning the murder of US-based entrepreneur Mike Mulwa last weekend. Mulwa, the proprietor of 254 clothing succumbed to his injuries after he was shot by armed robbers at a Birmingham Alabama gas station on Saturday night.Apparently, Mike was robbed three times this year, and the robbers warned him that if he reports the matter to the police, he would be killed.According to Kelly Ochieng, a music promoter based in the USA, Mike was traumatised after he was ambushed by gunmen (for the third time this year), and he advised him to take heart that all will be well.Ochieng said they talked in length and a few hours later, he was called by a friend who told him to call the police as Mulwa had requested. He was then rushed to the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) Hospital after the incident, where he passed on.Part of the long, heartbreaking post Kelly Ochieng shared on Facebook read: "Saturday morning, Mike called me from Alabama and said 'Bro maze jana nilikutwa at gun point, hawa ma fala walichukua doo na fegi kadha na waka nishow niki ita karao watarudi but hii ni biasharalazima ni make report'."I told mike to take some time off because he sounded traumatized. Mike said "Maze nimeibiwa (3 or 5) times this year alone but nime show ma owner wahii property wasipoweka bullet proof hapa nitauzahiibisharana ni toke hapa'. "Mike akanishow that hii story yote iko on video namakaraowakimaliza story yao, atanitumia video nicheki. I then told Mike that I will call him back "wachatutaongeabadaye, nimeanza ile biz tulikuwatumebonga, check whatsappyakonimeku add". That was it...... Next time I am driving to Fusion Bistro, Kalonje tells me to call 911 that Mike ameshutiwaakiwakwasimu and hiindio address amepatiana, so me naharakazangunikacall 911, I was then forwarded to a number in Alabama and the cops said they were on there way. At the club we cant even go in because we are still trying to find out what is happening. It's only after we get word that he is now stable that we get into the club. Niki amka, as always I first call him and it goes straight to voicemail. I thought that was weird because the dude has never missed my call or I have never missed his. So I check WhatsApp and text messages Mike Mulwa is gone."