Kenya&rsquo;s tourism sector is projected to grow by six per cent annually in the next 10 years, outperforming agriculture whose growth is forecast at 5.1 per cent in the period, a new study suggests. The report, released yesterday by the World Travel &amp; Tourism Council, predicts there may be 500,000 job opportunities in the travel and tourism industry in 10 years. The sector, which is recovering from five years of under-performance from 2011 due to terror attack threats, is forecast to outperform automotive manufacturing which is expected to grow by an a average of 4.3 per cent annually in the focus period. The WTTC Benchmarking report 2017 also shows that Kenya&rsquo;s travel and tourism sector is larger than mining, chemicals manufacturing and automotive manufacturing combined. The report, which compares travel and tourism to eight other sectors that have a similar breadth, says the Sh700 billion generated by the sector to Kenya&rsquo;s gross domestic product last year ranks the sector fifth out of the nine sectors in contribution to the GDP. &ldquo;These figures show that the tourism sector is not only a major engine of economic growth in Kenya, but it is also a creator of jobs,&rdquo; WTTC outgoing chief executive David Scowsill, who recently visited Kenya to speak at the Tourism Innovation Conference said. &ldquo;In Kenya, as in other countries, travel and tourism provides jobs across all levels of society and from the most remote rural area to the busiest city centre.&rdquo; The economic value of the business and leisure travel sector, which accounts for about 10 per cent of the GDP, is almost the same size as the banking sector.The travel and tourism directly supports nearly three times as many jobs as the banking sector and more than twice as many jobs as the financial services sector in Kenya, the report suggest. About 1.1 million direct, indirect and induced jobs were supported by the sector in 2016, which is about 9.2 per cent of the country&rsquo;s total labour force. Scowsill added: &ldquo;Ultimately we are a people industry. We depend on quality people to deliver a quality product to our customers. In order for our sector to continue to boost the economy and livelihoods in Kenya it is hugely important to address the anticipated talent shortage.&rdquo;The WTTC Benchmarking Report is published once every two years and is sponsored by American Express. Countries covered in the study include Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, the UAE, the UK, among others.