Good artists come with all sorts of unique ideas, and that was the case at the Pop-up Art Gallery exhibit held on July 29 at the dusitD2 Hotel in Westlands, Nairobi.Hosted at the dStudios, for this installation, curator Charles Murito decided to once again gift the audience with a fresh set of artists, who showcased diverse perspectives and concepts. The June exhibition was meant to be a culmination of the first half of the year and the monthly installation would only resume after elections, but thanks to demand from the artists, the curator had no option but to provide the July edition.As usual, the exhibition was graced by a good number of artists with great experience in the world of art. There was an additional level of creativity, not just limited to the artwork.Over 10 creatives showcased their wondrous artworks. Katanu Kay was back for yet another exhibit, where one of her colourful oil on canvas portrait paintings was quite noticeable.Clavers Odhiambio's creations were inspired by various cultural ways of life. His pieces incorporated the use of mixed media, employing plaster of paris moulds to give his images a three-dimensional effect.Also featured was a message of hope, which was the main theme captured in Victor Binge's unique seascape paintings. Naila Aroni displayed mesmerising acrylic on canvas portrait paintings, while Onesmus Okamar displayed oil on canvas paintings.Coster Ojwang specialised in acrylic on canvas paintings with a piece titled "Hustle" showing the marketplace activities, and another portrait piece depicting his long-time crush christened "I'm Me". David Muchai's use of wildlife in his acrylic on canvas paintings to depict human beings' ways of life was quite phenomenonal. In one of his painting, titled "Strategy", he depicts survival tactics using wild dogs.Also on display were captivating paintings from Nduta Kariuki, Drishti Chawla, Alexandra Matalanga, Lee Gitahi and Ghanaian Martin Dartey. The curator continues to provide a platform where both established and upcoming artists can sell their creations to art lovers. The artworks' prices ranged from Sh5,000 to Sh100,000 depending on the complexity involvedAnd, as usual, children got the opportunity to develop their painting skills and techniques at the Capitol Kids Corner. The monthly pop-up gallery has come to be recognised as one of the most informative exhibitions, attracting art enthusiasts from all over. The location provides a beautiful scenery, and you certainly ought to show up for the next installation.