The political atmosphere in Kenya is currently on another level. As we gear up for the August 8 election, we have already witnessed the most fractious season ever, with political candidates offering repackaged solutions that have been tried before. And little by little, we&rsquo;ve seen politicians use different strategies, with the inclusion of musicians in the campaign trails.It is not the first time we are witnessing artistes lining up to support their candidate of choice. It has always been the case with artistes stumping for candidates through their creations. In 2002, Unbwogable by GidiGidi and MajiMaji was adopted into politics and it was quite a phenomenon. It brought about change in regime, which was a triumph for democracy.Just as has been the case in previous years, this hotly contested presidential race has seen a good number of artistes openly show their support for the front runners. Artistes such as Ali Kiba, Willy Paul, Ben Githae, Gabu, Kristoff, Onyi Jalamo and Amos Barasa have all released tracks voicing their preferences, or maybe circumstances have forced them to.So how do we know if it is the right thing for an artiste to openly show their support for a political candidate? And are we even at that point? So we understand that celebrity endorsements can boost candidates&rsquo; popularity. When a political figure has the right artistes on their side, it can be a plus for them.However, in Kenya, we are not yet at a point where artistes can really influence the outcome of an election. It is not like in the US, where acts in Hollywood have a powerful voice through which they can approve the political candidate fit for office. Here it doesn&rsquo;t matter. Politicians just want to appeal to the youth and will invest in the best just to appear trendy.While some artistes will support one and denounce other candidates as a sign of devotion, most look at it as an opportunity to make money. For them, it is all about taking advantage of the situation to profit themselves. They will release tracks with catchy hooks and melody, focusing on certain key words so they can easily be adopted.However, this could be dangerous for popular artistes whose fan base is spread across the country. The moment they start to show their allegiance to an individual or political party, and considering the level of political immaturity in our nation, there&rsquo;s increased concern about alienating members of their fan base holding an opposing opinion. For Christian artistes, it mars them with controversy when they do music praising political candidates.For most of our local artistes, they prefer to keep their politics private or involve themselves in peace campaigns. It is safer that way. The truth of the matter is elections come and go, but careers hold. One wrong move could mean the end of many years of hard work.If you think about it, an artiste has the creative freedom of expression and picking sides and endorsing is part of it. However, when work of art is infused with a political message, there is a pressure both on the artiste and those who consume it. Exercising one&rsquo;s freedom of expression can come at a cost. Therefore, it is up to the artiste to figure out what works best.