The state's delayed inquiry into the brutal murder of the electoral agency's ICT manager, Chris Msando, yesterday sparked sharp criticism from mourners during his requiem mass. Relatives, friends and political leaders from Nyanza questioned why the government is taking too long to bring culprits to justice. His widow Eva Buyu said she will not relent in demanding answers on what transpired on July 28 when Msando went missing. He was found dead the following day. “I don't know where to start. Let justice be our shield and defender. Vengeance is of the Lord and I believe God will fight this battle for us,” she said. Buyu said Msando was fully dedicated to his family and to the entire country. “Chris' death will not go in vain, we have refused. This is wrong. Things will never be the same again but I will always treasure the life I have lived with you,” she said. Kisumu Governor-elect Anyang' Nyong'o urged Kenyans to “change the current political system” in a bid to eradicate extra-judicial killings. He described Msando as a devoted patriot who was focused on ensuring that this year's polls were free, fair and justifiable. “Msando's legacy can only last forever if we remove this political system because Kenyans should not die after every five years. We should deliver this country from this form of oppression and enhance democracy. May God be with Baby Samantha and Msando,” he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said, “We must ask who sent those people to murder Msando because they stood to benefit after the execution. We are also in darkness on what happened to the offer by UK and US into the investigations”. President Uhuru Kenyatta had early this month urged politicians to stop speculating on the Msando's murder and allow the relevant authorities to carry out a thorough probe. “It is appropriate to let those institutions handle the investigation so as to bring the doers of this foul deed to justice. Careless speculation at this time of grief only makes the work of investigators harder, and it only adds to the pain of those who loved him,” he said. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati remembered the former IT expert for quickly re-organising the commission in readiness for the General Election. He said Msando was steadfast in offering civic education to Kenyans and instilling confidence in them on the electoral technology. “We missed you during the electioneering process but we assured that in your memory, we upheld what you lived for,” Chebukati said. He was with IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba. It is still unclear whether the government accepted the offer by America’s Federal Bureau of Investigation and Britain’s Scotland Yard in assisting to investigate Msando's murder. All election observers called for a speedy probe into his mysterious murder. The body of 21-year-old Carol Ngumbu from Gachie, Kiambu county, was found alongside that of Msando. The two bodies were discovered at Muguga Forest in Kikuyu on July 29. Mourners were allowed to view Msando's body outside the church. He will be buried today at Lifunga Kobiero village, Ugenya, Siaya county. Msando is survived by his widow and five children.