Stray Lions have a bulk of their players in the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Select Team that will take part in the inaugural Sir Vizzy tournament in India. Stray Lions have five players in the 16-man squad that departs tomorrow to India. Making up the squad from the Peponi School-based side are —Uganda all-rounder Roger Mukasa, Abraham Vadada, Nikil Date, Ashiwaryia Surve and Haraj Singh Sohal. The team is composed of most new players as the regulars are currently in the national team preparing for a tour of South Africa later next week. Former national cricket team skipper Maurice Ouma will lead the team. The former national team wicket keeper was the leading scorer in last year’s NPCA Super league. Thje selection, according to Cricket Kenya (CK) was based on performance in the NPCA league for the last two seasons. The team to be coached by another former national wicket keeper, David Obuya, will leave on Friday for the four-day event organised by Andhra Cricket Association. Apart from Nairobi Gymkhana captain Karan Kaul, James Ngoche and Ouma, the squad is made up of uncapped and national Under-19 players. In the absence of the national team players, Thomas Ochieng, Aman Gandhi and Sachin Bhudia from the Under-19 squad, have been given an opportunity to get exposure ahead of the U19 ICC World Cup set for early next year. James Ngoche, who has not played for the national team for three years now, has also been drafted in the team that has three Swamibapa players. The tournament to be played in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram will feature Andhra Cricket Association, Gujarat Cricket Association, Andhra President’s XI, Himachal Cricket Association, Indian Oil Company and Natural Gas Commission, Baroda Cricket Association and NPCA Select team. According to NPCA chairman, Tom Tikolo, the tour is a very important and will help improve the standards of the game. “In the past, Kenya have had cordial relations with India which enabled our cricketers to play at top level including the 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup. We intend to take the same route for our climb back to the pinnacle of world cricket starting with this tour to Andhra,” he noted. Squad: Morris Amollo Ouma- (Swami, team captain), Karan Kaul (Gymkhana, vice captain), James Ngoche (Swami), Peter Langat (Gymkhana), Harshvardhan Patel (Gymkhana), Tuhar Vaghani (Ruaraka), Sachin Bhudia (Kanbis), Mitesh Sanghani (Swami), Tarandeep Singh (Sikh), Haraj Singh Sohal (Stray Lions), Aman Gandhi (Sir Ali), Thomas Ojijo Ochieng (Obuya Academy), Nikil Date (Stray Lions), Ashiwaryia Surve (Stray Lions), Abraham Vadada (Stray Lions), Roger Mukasa (Stray Lions).