Private motor vehicle owners will from October 1 be required to acquire an additional sticker while renewing their annual insurance policies. These new stickers, that will cost Sh700, will contain an electronic chip that will have all the details of a vehicle. “Due to its security features, the sticker is protected against forgery and is automatically destroyed when removed or tampered with,” National Transport and Safety Authority director general Francis Mejja said in a public notice published in local dailies on Tuesday. While it was not immediately clear whether private vehicles will have to undergo an inspection before the new stickers are issued, the NTSA has said the third identifier stickers will only be served to vehicles that will pass the inspection test. The stickers will serve as the official NTSA inspection stickers. On expiry or damage of the sticker, the vehicle owner will need to renew it for the same amount. Aimed at providing a durable link between the vehicle and the numberplate, the sticker will further be enabled to pick details of a car travelling at a speed of 200 kilometres per hour and beyond. The stickers will be placed on the windscreen, and will bear the motor vehicle’s registration and ownership, tax, the chassis number and make, and insurance validation, among other compliance and legal requirements. It will use Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology chip as contained in the Implementation of the Traffic Rules 2016 that was to be first implemented on July 1 but faced logistical challenges leading to delays. With a validity period of 10 years before a replacement is done, the sticker will bear discrete and covert features of the motor vehicle registration, ownership and inspection details. “This is one of the many steps we are currently putting in place to ensure road safety and proper identification of vehicles and owners is enhanced,” Mejja said. “This new initiative will not only bring sanity to the roads but also help in curbing car theft and car hijacking,” Mejja explained. “Currently, it is easy for someone to steal a car and get away with it.” A hand held detector will also be able to read details of the car six metres away with the ability to retain data for a period of at least eight years. In addition to it being tamper proof and tamper evident, the chip can pick details of a car traveling at a speed of 200 kilometers per hour. According to data from the NTSA car registrations in Kenya increased by 24, 582 in May 2017 from 23, 059 in April of 2017. Car registrations averaged 14,734.48 from 2006 until 2017, reaching an all time high of 32, 401 in August of 2014 and a record low of 3, 071 in June of 2006. The authority aims to collect millions from the exercise.