Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki has asked Kenyans to go back to work immediately as the voting process was completed on August 8. Nairobi has been termed a ghost town as many travelled upcountry to either vote or in fear of violence. This has been the case in other major towns. Election day was declared a holiday but most people have left for rural parts or remained indoors. Kariuki said: "It is appreciated that the voting process is now complete. Public servants are therefore called upon to ensure they are available in their duty stations to offer requisite services to the public.' In statement on Thursday, the minister further noted some citizens have returned to regular activities and need these services. "The govt is equally committed to ensuring the full and immediate resumption resumption of services to the public." Bus stations have been busy as many Kenyans have left major cities for provincial areas which are seen as safe. Many organisations also gave their workers days off and citizens stockpiled groceries, phone cards and other essentials. Business is expected to remain sluggish in the next few days as the public wait for the outcome of the election between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Read: Kenyans stockpile food and water, police get first aid kits ahead of vote The 2007/8 post-election violence resulted in many traders losing their properties and lives being lost, causing many to be extra-cautious this time round. In the March 2013 general election, businesses remained shut for more than five days following fears of bloodshed. The people have stayed away fearing a repeat but this is hurting business profits. On transport, Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai said: "Members in Nairobi and major towns are counting losses due to the ongoing votes tallying process which is being closely followed on television." Kimutai urged Kenyans to overcome fear of violence and resume business. The tension heightened following Wednesday’s allegation by Raila that the IEBC system was hacked. The commission said some people tried but failed. The MOA chairman noted peace messages could go a long way in encouraging members of the public to return to work. “We had been preaching peace during the electioneering period and will be the first ones to resume operations to enable people access their workplaces and later travel back home," he told The Star on Thursday. To ensure this, the association is keen on the demand level for public transport in the CBD. Kimutai said the association is closely monitoring demand and that full operations will resume once demand incsreases. Most businesses in the Nairobi CBD operate for just a few hours - starting late in the morning and closing early in the evening. Julius, who owns a business on Kenyatta Avenue, said he will close early today as business has been slow. He urged Kenyans to return to normalcy. More on this: Don't take 2007 PEV route, Kisumu business people tell youths