With 60 hours till campaigning ends, President Uhuru Kenyatta and arch-rival Raila Odinga are making final frenzied efforts to galvanise voters and scoop up the crucial Undecideds. All the sound and the fury, all the extravagant promises and the vitriol end at 6pm Saturday, when the nation heaves a collective sigh of relief. Polls open at 6am Tuesday under tight security countrywide. Meantime, it’s crunch time, down to the wire, the 11th hour and do-or-die for the Jubilee candidate who wants a second term and the NASA flagbearer, a former Prime Minister making his fourth run for State House. Both are scions of Independence leaders. Raila says he has won but been robbed twice. No President has ever served a single term, and Kenyatta don’t want to be the first. Their schedules are punishing, doctors regularly check their blood pressure, heart rate and all vital signs. They watch their diet. Sleep is precious but there’s not much of it. Energy drinks are not unknown. Ambulances are part of their motorcades. After every stop, the President is examined to ensure he’s not strained by standing for long hours, shouting, giving speeches and dancing. His handlers had ensured he spends no more than 45 minutes at any venue and DP William Ruto MCs. He had been taking a day off and starting almost at noon instead of morning. All that is changing. Opinion polls indicate a neck-and-neck contest and both sides are going all-out to secure a decisive first-round win and avoid a Supreme Court challenge to the results. Lots of money is splashed around to persuade everyone to vote. Jubilee and NASA’s vote hunt will culminate in the final push in Nairobi on Saturday. Kenyatta’s final rally will be on Saturday at Nyayo Stadium. Raila has booked Uhuru Park for his final rally. The law bans campaigns in the final 48 hours before voting begins at 6am on Tuesday in 40,883 polling stations. Some 19.6 million Kenyans are eligible to vote, choosing leaders from President to MCA and woman representative. Voter turnout is crucial in a close race. Both Uhuru and Raila have been scouring villages, wooing minority communities and special interest groups previously ignored. Raila has reached out to single women, promising them a special fund. The President has gazetted the Makonde and Asians from India as Kenya’s 43rd and 44th tribes, respectively. Today they kick off the last three days, aiming to address five major rallies, with the final one on Saturday. Raila today retreats to Western, which has consistently been polled with the highest number of undecided voters. The opposition chief will lead his NASA brigade in a whirlwind of campaign rallies in Kisumu, Kakamega, Busia and Siaya. On Tuesday an Ipsos opinion poll indicated that Western Kenya, the political backyard of NASA principals Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), has the highest number of undecided voters at 14 per cent. The indecision in Western is attributed to the fact that the two regional kingpins are not the NASA flagbearer, and instead are backing Raila. Stung by Raila’s strong showing in Meru, the President today will camp in the miraa-growing county in an effort to undo Raila’s gains. Once considered a lock by Jubilee, Meru has become restive and miraa farmers are struggling because their popular, addictive stimulant in banned in key European markets and Tanzania. Development is lagging, despite the region being in Kenya’s heartland and loyal to the president. Raila was in Meru last week, reminding residents of their problems and promising a better and more prosperous life. Jubilee will mount an aggressive Meru campaign with several stops, before moving to neighbouring Tharaka Nithi. As polls show Jubilee trailing NASA in Nairobi, the ruling party will retreat to the capital on Friday to electrify its supporters and rally them for Saturday’s mega rally at Nyayo Stadium. Pollsters project a possible rerun, with neither candidate winning 50 per cent plus one vote of all votes cast — and 25 per cent in half the counties. In a run-off, a simple majority is required. So they hope a last-ditch effort can convince those who haven’t made up their minds, or who told pollsters they hadn’t decided. “We are confident of a first round victory, forget the doomsayers,” Jubilee party vice chairman David Murathe said. A poll by the Radio Africa Research Department projected an effective tie, with 47 per cent of voters backing the President, 46 per cent supporting Raila. Seven per cent told pollsters they were undecided. Infotrak indicated Raila would lead by 49 per cent against Uhuru’s 48 per cent, with 2.2 per cent of voters not decided. Polling firm Ipsos gave Uhuru at 47 per cent against Raila’s 44 per cent, with five per cent undecided. The 1.6 average percentage point difference is nearer the survey’s average 1.1 margin of error.  