Anglican Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit has urged leaders to assure Kenyans there will be no violence next Tuesday. He said it is saddening that people are relocating to their rural homes for fear of their lives. Sapit said on Sunday tension has slowed down business and hampered tourism during its peak season. “We all have a collective responsibility to quell such fears and ensure everybody continues with their businesses uninterrupted,” he said. Sapit spoke in Ihura Stadium, Murang’a county, during the consecration of Bishop Timothy Gichere. He urged politicians to accept the results of next Tuesday’s election. Sapit said the will of the people has to be respected so Kenyans can join hands and work together for collective prosperity. He said a report by polls observers that indicates some Kenyans are migrating should be acted upon by security agencies to assure people of their safety. “The report indicated that in some areas, leaflets targetting some communities have been distributed, threatening them if some political leaders do not win,” Sapit said. “I want to affirm that every Kenyan has a constitutional right to live and work in any part of the country without fear.” He urged police to neutralise the threats before Tuesday. word of advice Sapit called for a free, fair and credible election “because this is the only way to avert violence”. He praised the electoral commission for its preparedness and its commitment to provide a printed register for every polling station. Sapit said the credibility of the election will largely depend on a clean voter register. This will allay fears of rigging, he said. Sapit urged party agents to maintain peace and not engage in illegal acts at the polling stations. Unnecessary allegations of rigging by the agents, he said, may cause needless apprehension amongst Kenyans. “The IEBC should ensure all returning and presiding officers are people of integrity who will not be compromised by politicians,” Sapit said. He urged politicians to stop discrediting the Judiciary or labelling some judges as ethnically biased. Sapit told security agencies to ensure their roles end at securing the polling stations, and not interfering with the process. The opposition has alleged that the government is planning to use the military to rig the elections.