Homeboyz coach Paul Murunga said consistency will be key for his charges if they are to defend the national Sevens crown next month. The deejays bagged three tournaments last year and Murunga believes similar effort this time round will see them win the circuit for the second year running. “The first three tournaments will be key if we can be consistent in getting to the semis or finals, then we can retain the title,” added Murunga. The deejays bagged the Dala, Prinsloo and Nanyuki tournaments and were losing finalists in the Kabeberi and Driftwood Sevens finals, losing to Impala and Quins respectively last year. Murunga said competition for a place in the squad is intense and the players are relishing the challenge of the tournament opener in Mombasa in ten days time. “Competition for place in the squad is healthy. I remember last year we did not play with Bush Mwale, Oscar Ayodi and Augustine Lugonzo as they were coming back from the Olympics and we were able to show our depth and win without them. Now that they are coming back to the fold and with other players in the squad, we will be very strong,” added Murunga. He said competition from other clubs will equally be stiff. “Competition is wide open. The other teams have prepared well and we can’t wait for the opening tournament,” added Murunga. The series will start on September 2 with the Driftwood Sevens in Mombasa to followed by Kabeberi Sevens on September 9-10 at the RFUEA ground. The series takes a one week break before resuming with the Prinsloo Sevens in Nakuru on Sepember 23-24 and Sepetuka Sevens in Ngong a week later. The Christie Sevens, the penultimate round of the series, will be held on October 13-14 with Kisumu’s Dala Sevens closing the series on Mashujaa Day weekend. Elsewhere, Nills Achayo has joined the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) as a regional development manager. He will work closely with the regional development officers to strengthen the KRU’s programmes and footprints in the regions. He will also liaise with other with other organizations with similar programmes and work towards strengthening age grade player pathways across the board.