Ekuru Aukot has filed an application at the Supreme Court to be enjoined to NASA’s suit challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election win. The Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate had conceded defeat to Uhuru following the August 8 general election. He had even urged other candidates who lost the race to follow suit but later changed his mind. Read: Ekuru Aukot accepts loss in president race, asks Raila to follow suit But Aukot now argues he has direct and legitimate interest in the petition as he was a competitor and says locking him out will amount to prejudice. He also noted he qualifies to be a party to the proceedings as a petitioner, or by presentation of a petition in his own name, but that he opted to be enjoined to the case as an interested party. Aukot got 27,311 votes and was fifth in the race that attracted eight candidates. Through his lawyer Mutuma Gichuru, he says he conducted his own independent audit of the electoral process with a view of establishing its transparency, credibility, verifiability and accountability and that he has uncovered critical evidence. “The findings of our audit and evidence collected by my chief agents Waweru Miruru and Martin Galove will reveal crucial facts touching on the credibility and verifiability of the presidential elections declared by IEBC." The politician adds that his agents' affidavits are relevant and useful to the court. “Our participation will be of relevance and I believe the submission we shall make will be useful and different from those of other parties herein." Aukot further argues that he has been an active prayer and has gathered crucial information, facts and analysis that have a direct bearing on the proceedings before court. “In light of the strict timelines and mandatory constitutional timeline within which a party should file a petition, it is only fair and just that the application be disposed of expeditiously," he says. On August 18, Aukot said he was displeased with international observers' declaration of the election as free and fair and would accept a chance to be enjoined in NASA's case. He further said neither Jubilee Party nor NASA is perfect and that it is unfortunate that Kenyans did not vote for him on August 8. Read: Election was unfair, Aukot says, wishes to join NASA Supreme Court case Opposition leader Raila Odinga and his team filed a lengthy petition following their claims of rigging and other irregularities during the election. Raila, who also disputed Uhuru's 2013 win, said this is the Supreme Court's second chance to ensure justice. More on this: NASA will challenge Uhuru win at Supreme Court - Raila Also read: Three options for Supreme Court in NASA petition