Has Jubilee Nairobi governor candidate Mike Sonko (pictured) finally received a financial boost from his masters for the homestretch campaign? Our mole whispers to Corridors that the outgoing senator has received Sh96 million from Deputy President William Ruto to finance his campaign. It is said among campaign activities Sonko intends to splash the money on is running unprecedented documentaries about his Sonko Rescue Team’s successes on all leading TV stations and mounting serious road shows for the remaining five days to the polls. === A rich politician from Upper Eastern, who is known to campaign by inviting hundreds of villagers to eat rice in his compound, is a man under siege. The rice-eating parties have grown dull nowadays after some people developed diarrhoea last week. He has resorted to a new tactic of ferrying crowds to his political rallies. But this also appears to be failing because nearly everyone who attends his rallies demands money after the function. Word has it that, early this week, lorry drivers abandoned villagers they had ferried to Kangaru School because they were not paid. Things have gone haywire for the Jubilee politician since President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto even ignored him the last two times they visited the county. === The name of a new bar on the outskirts of Eldoret town, along the Eldoret-Malaba highway, is on the lips of may residents and rival bar owners. Our mole tells Corridors the classy liquor den has left many tongues wagging and wondering at the spell it has of attracting customers, mostly the well off. However, it is said that a bevy of strippers in the club is the charm that beguiles men to camp in the place overnight. Residents compare the place to a ‘special church service’. Many residents are wondering why the government has yet to realise what goes on in the place and crack the whip, like it did to some bars in major cities a few years ago. === Before the end of the 11th Parliament, Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma warned that the land behind the Deputy President’s office was being sold to the government at an exorbitant price. Corridors has learned that the land belongs to a former MP and, due to differences among the family members, they have not received any money from the government, despite funds being available. A Treasury official says the government is reconsidering options since members of the family have failed to sit down and agree. Some have even filed cases since the land has three administrators.