FELLOW Kenyans, many, including yours truly, voted for Raila
Odinga. He undertook to protect our votes with a Parallel Tallying Centre. He
failed to do so. We have not seen any results, two days after the close of the polls.
We have to make do with those given by the IEBC. Raila and his command team have
failed us. There were no agents to monitor the counting of votes and forward
Forms 34A and Forms 34B to the Tallying Centre, if at all there was any. That
is the hard truth, upon self-assessment. I experienced it in my Polling Station
and Constituency. Raila has lost, not for want of numbers but
for failure to take command, caution, mobilise and secure his voter base. He
failed to guard his votes. It is probable that he may not have had the numbers:
We will never know. All evidence indicates that Uhuru Kenyatta will be declared
winner of the Presidential Election. President Uhuru and his team have
demonstrated meticulous preparation and organisation. They were more strategic
and focused. They were ahead all the time, by the book and outside the book. We
must salute them. Jubilee and the IEBC advocates are already
assembled to respond to any Presidential Election Petition. They have been
camping in court, waiting in ambush. They are prepared, even as Raila’s are
overwhelmed with sleep and “food poisoning”. I advise Raila not to waste any
time in court. He has no evidence to sustain a legal battle. It is lost.  President Uhuru did not unify the nation in
his first term. He attributed this to Raila’s interruptions. That may well be
so. However, it is water under the bridge now. Raila will not be there to
interrupt this time around. It is my expectation that President Uhuru will, in
his second term, serve the entire nation diligently and without discrimination.
He is the President of Kenya and not two tribes. I unreservedly congratulate
President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto for winning the second
term in office. As usual, I will indicate my satisfaction where they excel in
leadership and voice concern or objection where they will fall into error. They
will be serving without an active opposition. Therein lies the problem. Pole, Raila. First Baba was my late father.
Baba Moi was the second. You are the third. My son is the fourth. Baba will
always be here. Havi is a lawyer  