Panic has gripped top executives in four counties in the North Rift region where governors have indicated they will sack staff in a bid to improve service delivery. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Uasin Gishu’s Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet’s Alex Tolgos and Trans Nzoia’s Patrick Khaemba were sworn in yesterday. The ceremonies for the North Rift governors cost about Sh20 million, down from the Sh60 million initially proposed. The chiefs rejected the proposal to buy them new vehicles. Sang met executives and other county staff amid reports the entire Cabinet of 10 appointed by former county chief Cleophas Lagat, will be fired. “We will have to start afresh and the key focus will be service delivery to the people of Nandi,” he said before he was sworn into office. Before winning the election, Sang often questioned how the more than Sh13 billion received from the national government was used. Mandago has already indicated he will fire most of his executives for nonperformance. “They almost made me lose my job during the election and there is no way I will retain all of them. This is my last term in office and even though I will not be seeking another term, I will not have an opportunity to redeem my image if it’s destroyed,” he said. Sources said Mandago and his deputy Daniel Chemno will fire six executives, a number of chief officers and directors of departments. “I will ensure all communities and residents of Eldoret are involved in what we do,” Mandago said last Friday. Some executives said they will quit before they are sacked. Tolgos said he will carry out fresh recruitment of all senior staff. The positions will be advertised and current staff are free to apply. “We will pick the most qualified to work for the people of Elgeyo Marakwet,” Tolgos said in Iten town last Friday. Before the election Tolgos dropped his deputy Gabriel Lamaon and picked Wesley Rotich. Khaemba faced a crisis during his first term as more than 15 top officials were charged in court on graft-related cases. He said he will make far-reaching changes in his Cabinet to redeem the county’s image. New executives have to be vetted by county assemblies.