The Kenyan business community has urged Kenyans to resume work to compensate for economic productivity lost last week when Kenyans took time off to vote in the General Elections. The business leaders congratulated President Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election, promising to work with all elected leaders to improve the country’s economy which has been resilient through out the election period. The Kenyan shilling remained stable against major world currencies, gaining against the Sterling Pound and the Euro but depreciating thinly against the greenback. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) chairman Kiprono Kittony said no more time should be lost celebrating or grieving election results. ‘’The free fair and credible elections in the country has inspired great confidence within the business community. We must guard this confidence religiously to boost the country’s attractivenesses to both local and foreign investors,’’ said Kitonny. Unlike past election years where the country’s gross domestic product shrunk, the business community reported a beehive of activity in major economic sectors, with the tourism sector recording a 10.7 per cent growth in international arrivals. According to the Kenya Tourism Board,international arrivals from January to May this year closed at 358,985 compared to 324,276 in 2016. Kenya Private Sector Alliance vice chairperson Patrick Obath asked aggrieved parties in the just concluded election process to follow legal channels as provided in the constitution, and reiterated the business community’s commitment in ensuring peaceful solutions to political disputes. ‘’The business community will continue working with the government in accelerating job creation, youth empowerment and promoting both large and small business enterprises,” he said. Matatu Owners Association last week urged its members to resume work amid fears of politically instigated violence. According to Simon Kimutai, the chairman of the Matatu Owners Association (MOA), only 2000 out of 20,000 matatus were operating, resulting to Sh100 million in losses every day. On Sunday, the country’s opposition chief urged supporters to boycott work pending a major announcement today. A spot check in Nairobi yesterday showed a majority were back to work.