Nandi Governor-elect Stephen Sang’ has cancelled a Sh50 million budget for new cars and for his swearing-in ceremony on Monday. On Monday he will enjoy breakfast at his former school, Kapsabet Boys’ High School, before heading to Kapsabet Stadium for a simple swearing-in ceremony and later head to work. “Vehicles and ceremonies are not a priority for the residents of Nandi.The money will be used to buy drugs. Hospitals are facing serious shortages,” said Sang’. The new governor said he will use the existing vehicles. Three governors who lost in the August 8 General Election are preparing to hand over power to their successors in Nandi, Baringo and West Pokot counties. They hope the Jubilee government will keep its promise to give them jobs. Dr Cleophas Lagat of Nandi and Baringo’s Benjamin Cheboi lost their seats, while West Pokot’s Simon Kachapin lost to Kanu’s John Lonyangapuo in last week’s polls. “I am grateful for the opportunity the people of Nandi gave me to serve them and I will support the incoming governor,” said Dr Lagat, who will hand over to Sang’ on August 24. Lagat blamed his loss on sabotage from some of his top employees, but analysts said runway graft and a poor development record ruined his chances. Sang hailed Lagat for being the first governor of Nandi and said they will still work together to develop the county. Cheboi lost to Governor-elect Stanley Kiptis. He led grassroot campaigns for Jubilee in the North Rift and he stands a high chance of being rewarded with a job. He will hand over to Kiptis on August 21. In West Pokot, outgoing Governor Simon Kachapin said, “I concede defeat and will support the new governor.” He will handover to Governor-elect John Lonyangapuo next week. Four governors in the region will, however, be sworn in to embark on their second and final term. They include Uasin Gishu’s Jackson Mandago, Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia, Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and Josphat Nanok of Turkana, who is also the chairman of the Council of Governors.