Card payment platforms have over the past five years registered a drop in the value of transactions due to increased convenience presented by mobile money services. Despite higher charges incurred through mobile and agency banking, more Kenyans have migrated to the two platforms in a move championed by increased advancement in the country’s fintech sub-sector. “The convenience offered in mobile money is drawing more people away from the older model of banking and because of this, card payments are going to take a hit going into the future,” a financial analyst at Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Kasee Mbao said. Data from the Central Bank of Kenya indicates that card payments were valued at Sh690.16 billion during the first half of 2017, 15.7 per cent lower than the value recorded five years ago at Sh818.65 billion. The number of transactions through card payment platforms also dropped 38.66 per cent to 107.03 million transactions from 174.48 million transactions in the first half of 2013. On the other hand, the value and number of transactions made through mobile money payments more than doubled by 107.74 per cent and 162.78 per cent respectively during the five year period to Sh1.81 trillion and 881.98 transactions as at June 2017. Card payment platforms such as Visa and Mastercard have since resorted to incorporate new digital forms of banking to reduce the losses incurred due to reduced transactions in traditional card payments. “Mastercard is not a card payments company, it is a technology payment company and with that, we have already launched Masterpass QR,” Mastercard vice president and area business head, East Africa Christian Bwakira told the Star. “This means that we will be able to reach merchant categories that previously were not catered for.” Last month, Visa announced a partnership with nine banks in the country that will enable mVisa on their mobile banking applications. The digital platform will enable customers to send money to each other domestically without paying transaction fees. Already, some commercial banks have closed some of their automated teller machine lobbies in a bid to shift customers to agency and mobile banking. CBK data shows that as at December 2016, Equity Bank accounted for about 19.58 per cent of the total 2,656 ATMs in the industry. However, as at June 2017, the number of machines had risen to 2,782. As opposed to ATMs which require huge capital investments, agency and mobile banking save lenders from such requirements.