Aisha Jumwa of ODM beat seven men to win the hotly contested Malindi MP race. The former woman representative was declared the winner on Thursday after she garnered 28,788 votes. Phillip Charo of Jubilee Party got 14,219 votes while Willy Mtengo (Independent) was third with 6,658 votes. Other candidates were Rashid Odhiambo of Wiper who got 4,859 and Kadu Asili's Justus Mwimalu (610). UDP's Richard Otara got 358 votes, Fuad Kombe (DPK) 150 and FPK’s Benjamin Gunga 128. Jumwa is among the outspoken ODM national leaders. The party also won the constituency's five MCA seats. There was a moment of tension after the other candidates tried to stop returning officer Sudi Mwakudonda from announcing the results. Police moved in swiftly to restore order at the tallying centre.  Malindi MP-elect Aisha Jumwa receives her certificate from constituency returning officer Sudi Mwakudonda at Barani Secondary School in Malindi town, August 10, 2017. /ALPHONCE GARI The RO announced the results in the absence of the candidates who lost. Most of them refused to concede defeat. The dispute was that tallying had been stopped yet officials continued to read results. Mwakudonda said there was no official communication to the effect of stopping the tallying process. Malindi OCPD Matawa Muchangi said anyone who would attempt to disrupt the process would be arrested. "Continue with your work. Whoever will attempt to disrupt you shall face the full force of the law," the police boss said. While announcing the results, Mwakudonda said the election was credible and urged members of the public to maintain calm. "Let us not resort to violence when there are proper channels to follow if one feels the results are not the correct ones." Mtengo was elected MP during the Malindi by-election in March last year after Dan Kazungu was appointed Mining CS. In her victory speech, Jumwa thanked her family and Malindi people in general for supporting her to become the constituency's first woman MP. She urged the losers to be calm and follow the law if they have any queries with the results. Elsewhere, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi accused the losers of trying to ignite violence instead of following the law. More on this: It's not over yet for Kingi after IEBC puts tallying of Kilifi results on hold