Busia Deputy Governor Kizito Wangalwa has joined the campaign team of independent governor candidate Paul Otuoma. Wangalwa, who two months ago declined to be Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s running mate, cited poor development and massive corruption in the administration for his decision to back Otuoma. “It will be catastrophic for Busia if you reelect Ojaamong, because he will run down the county,” he said. Wangalwa spoke at Buyofu Catholic Church, where he Joined Otuoma’s campaign. He said the county government through the Lands and Urban Development department misspent hundreds of millions of taxpayers’ money through an inflated solar-powered street lighting project. “The county government was paying Sh1.5 million for every solar light, yet when you go to the shops you find such lights cost less than Sh300,000,” Wangalwa said on Monday. The tender for the project is said to have been single-sourced and awarded to a local businessman. Wangalwa urged residents to turn up in large numbers and vote for Otuoma. Otuoma said if elected, he will distribute county resources equitably to all the seven subcounties of Busia. In June, Ojaamong accused the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission of a political witch-hunt and for being idle. Ojaamong said the institution was being used by certain cartels to bar him from contesting the election. The governor was accused of improperly acquiring Sh220 million property and benefiting from a Sh91 million street lighting project. He said there is no evidence of misappropriation of any funds. “We used the money to pay casual workers and we have told the EACC that it seems they are so idle and have nothing to do,” Ojaamong said. He said the agency has “ceased being professional and is now political”. Defending the street lighting project, Ojaamong said he acquired the best quality, thus the huge cost. “You cannot compare the quality of our street lights with those in other regions, some of which performed for just a single day. I don’t think those who awarded us with the same are fools,” Ojaamong said. He said whoever was questioning the project should look at the quality too as it has assisted Busia people. Ojaamong urged voters to look at candidates manifestos and track records and shun witch-hunts.