British American Tobacco is under official investigation by the UK’s Serious Fraud Office over allegations it paid bribes to, among others, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula and Kirinyaga governor candidate Martha Karua. The allegations were first made in a BBC programme in 2015. Wetang’ula, as Trade minister in 2012, was one of the MPs who allegedly received ‘favours’ from BAT. In July 2012, Adell-Owino, BAT lobbyist, requested the purchase of a business class ticket to London for Wetang’ula. The email said he would be “hosted at Globe House”, which is BAT’s London headquarters. Adell-Owino asked that the transaction should be “paperless” and there should be “no receipts, if any, in his [Wetang’ula] name.” Wetang’ula, a co-principal of NASA, however, denied knowledge of the emails when contacted by the Panorama programme. He told BBC he was “shocked” and “upset” and threatened to take legal action against anyone circulating “such a crude rumour” against him. “I did not receive any ticket or any money. I never had dealings with BAT,” he said. Adell-Owino “categorically denied” involvement in bribery and said BAT “mistakenly believed” the payments were bribes. But according to BAT, purchase of the plane ticket was one in a series of “unlawful bribes”. The Probe found that BAT illegally paid politicians and civil servants in countries in East Africa. BAT allegedly paid £50,000 (Sh6.8 million) to Karua, a former Justice minister, to prevent a rival company supplying Kenya with technology to combat cigarette smuggling. In return for the donations, paid in cash via a middleman, BAT obtained key confidential Kenyan Revenue Authority documents outlining the £100m (Sh13.7 billion) five-year contract for new technology designed to stamp out tobacco smuggling. They then had the contract deliberately delayed while they secretly lobbied to get their own system chosen. Karua’s lawyers later confirmed she received money from a BAT representative as a donation for her political campaign.