Ian Munene, popularly known as Almasi from the childrens' show Machachari, has finally opened up about his life. The teenager has been grabbing headlines of late because of his dress code and posing with flowers on his head, leaving many questioning his sexuality. Almasi, who is studying marketing in the UK at the University of Kent in Canterbury, says he left Machachari because he wanted to focus more on education. In an exclusive interview with Word Is, Almasi says he doesn't care about what people think about him. "My photos have meanings. I feel like with every picture I post on social media, I want to create an emotion and I have my own reasons for it regardless. Me putting on a flower is like it's like a liberation of art. We are getting to a place where expressions vary and you can use any form of expression that you want as an individual. So that was just me and I worked with really good photographers to see the different aesthetics I can do." Almasi has been criticised on social media but that hasn't deterred him from doing what he loves most. "People are quick to judge and the fact that I don't respond, they will say anything. I don't feel like I am entitled to talk about my personal life with anyone, so whatever people say, I just allow it. Because at the end of the day, they will judge me regardless. Even if I correct them and tell them who I am, it's not going to change anything. People I work with know who I am. I don't care what the rest say." Almasi also clarified that the photos of him smoking were not of weed as many claim but tobacco, and this was just a photoshoot. "We were invited to an event to make it have a particular look. People were quick to judge, thinking that's my lifestyle. That's not my lifestyle, I do my own things the way I like. What people said or saw doesn't define my life!" The youngster, who is currently on holiday, says his mother is his greatest pillar. "She supports me a lot and understands me. She knows who I am." He revealed that he was working on various projects and would update us soon. Almasi is looking forward to teaching drama and says his role as Almasi in the local children's programme "changed my life and taught me a lot".  