Kenya has taken several steps
towards a green economy and developed a strategy to consolidate,
scale up and embed green energy growth initiatives in national development
goals. The Green Economy Strategy and Implementation Plan provides the
overall policy framework to facilitate a transition to a green economy and
outlines the need to mainstream and align green-economy initiatives across the
economic, social and environmental spheres. In addition, Kenya has taken a
significant step in developing a National Climate Change Response Strategy
and Action Plan in the recognition that climate change is a threat to
national development. This strategy has presented evidence on climate change
and associated impacts and proposes a concerted programme of activities and actions
to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, combat such impacts and
provides an enabling implementation framework. The energy sector poses a
particular challenge and yet presents great opportunities for green growth. Indeed, fossil fuels will continue to
dominate energy supply for some time simply because economies, societies and
infrastructure have evolved around them, and due to the fact that innovation
and change take time and investment. Nevertheless, renewable sources of
energy such as solar, wind, hydro, biomass and geothermal need to be enhanced on a scale equivalent to the industrial revolution and per Kenya’s
commitment towards transiting to a green economy. Without decisive action,
energy related emissions of carbon dioxide will
double by 2050. Kenya has promising potential for
power-generation from renewable energy sources. Abundant solar, hydro, wind,
biomass and geothermal resources led the government to seek the expansion of
renewable energy generation to central and rural areas. With high insolation
rates, of an average of five to seven peak sunshine hours and an average daily insolation of
4-6kWh/m2, Kenya has a total estimated photovoltaic
installations potential of 23,046 TWh/year. Thanks to her topography, Kenya
has some excellent wind regime areas, with a potential output of approximately 22,476TWh/year depending on the turbine CF. Conservative estimates suggest geothermal
potential in the Kenyan Rift at 2,000MW, whereas the total national potential
is put at between 7,000 and 10,000 MW. The greatest challenge for Kenya’s
transition to a green economy will be the political and economic interest attached to a
brown economy pathway against social and environmental gains associated with
the green economy. For instance, the proposed Lamu coal power-generation plant will be a
big setback to government’s commitment to a green economy and renewable energy
development. Kenya ratified the Paris Agreement on international
climate change approach in which nations committed to reduce their greenhouse
gas emissions. The plant scuttles this commitment and its effects will
not only adversely affect the environment but also the tourism industry that Lamu
town is globally renowned for. The plant
compromises Kenya's own commitment and poses a great threat to the environment and human
health. The EIA study for
the coal plant had major inadequacies ranging from inaccurate definition of
the project scope, inadequate analysis of environmental impacts, insufficient
technological options analysis and subsequently inadequate mitigation measures. Granting of the EIA licence by
Nema, in my view, was a major error and a negation to the constitutional principle of public
participation. The agency, which is mandated to enhance environmental protection, gave in to economic and
political interests. Environment CS Judi Wakhungu recently stated coal is ‘dirty’ and there is no such thing as ‘clean coal’.
Nema is under the CS's docket and she has openly
opposed the coal project. The huge investment in the
proposed coal power plant under private-public partnership should be
directed to renewable energy. Many global economies such as the UK plan
to close all coal-powered plants by 2025, why should Kenya go where others
are coming from? It is critical for Kenya to be energy secure to support
economic growth, but not by investing in coal rather harnessing green energy sources. Will Kenya give in to political and
economic pressures in favour of a brown economy or withstand all these pressures,
appreciate the need for sustainable development and advance her commitment to
transit to green growth for the greater good of the country?  Executive director, East African Wildlife Society. 