In July 2017 the government gazetted the ‘Asian’ community as the ‘44th tribe’ of Kenya. Earlier, in 2016 the stateless situation of the Makonde people at the Coast, who were formerly brought from Mozambique as slaves by the Omani Sultanate, was redressed. At long last they have full privileges as a Kenyan ‘tribe’. Since the government is justly enshrining the rights of ethnically sidelined communities, it should be consequential towards those still left out. One glaring omission are the Kenyan-Europeans. It is erroneously assumed that Europeans became inhabitants of Kenya at the end of the 19th Century. The first Europeans to settle at the Kenyan Coast, in Malindi to be precise, were part of Vasco da Gama’s second expedition of 1500. Later on the Portuguese captured the entire Swahili Coast, and dwelled in their towns. To this day the most magnificent structure in Mombasa is Fort Jesus, built by the Italian Jao Batista Cairato. The history of the Coast and Mombasa in particular, is one of musical chairs as it was captured and recaptured by the Spanish Crown, Portuguese, Omanis, Swahilis, Egyptian Mamelukes and by Turks. They have all left their DNA mark amongst the population. Indeed, it has to be acknowledged that the history of Kenya had been one of constant migration, displacement and conquest. An indisputable case in point is that one of the peoples who had been in Kenya’s territory for one of the longest recorded periods were the Ogiek, with a similar lifestyle to the Bambuti of the Congo, Hadza of Tanzania, or the Khoisan of Southern Africa, leading a hunter gatherer existence. Within all these communities the concept of aggression or self defense was unknown, all being the most peaceful in history. Unprecedented; but real. This should be a Light to all humanity. But it was this very trait that was their undoing. The Ogiek were eventually edged out or subsumed by more numerous Bantu newcomers. In turn Nilotic peoples made their way from the higher reaches of the Nile basin into the West-Southern region of present day Kenya. The Cushitic people have in turn been steadily moving westwards in search of pastures. In a way Kenya’s area has always been a cauldron of many ethnicities. Originally the borders of this land were nonexistent. It was only the British, by using the might of their Empire, who were able to subdue and integrate all these areas. After all it was their idea to create the so-called Lunatic Express that spurred the birth of the only nation in history created by a railway; Kenya. When Kenya’s Protectorate attained Independence from Oman on October 8, 1963, and Kenya’s Colony from Great Britain on December 12, 1963, a sizable number of Arabs had by then settled in Kenya, just as the Europeans had done, and many of both communities chose to stay on, as they knew of no other home. While the 2009 Census showed that 40,760 Arabs lived in Kenya, the same indicated that 67,000 Europeans resided in Kenya. But the legal status of both communities has not been equitable. Unlike the former, many Europeans are still living in a state of limbo without Kenyan IDs and passports. Isn’t this plain discrimination? Moreover, many are forced to pay exorbitant punitive fees to the state for just being and working here; in their homeland. As of now, Kenya has a European population that in many instances has lived here for up to four generations. Most of them trace their origins to Great Britain, and some became so acculturated into the ‘tribes’ they met, such as Louis Leakey that he was made an elder. Until today he remains the pre-eminent expert on local culture. It is a Kenyan Briton who is the most celebrated aviatrice in history – Beryl Markham. Almost all European nations are represented here. The most politically influential but troublesome was a French-Canadian, Governor Percy Girouard, while the Irish Ewart Grogan was a financial giant who built the Kilindini Harbour. There would be no modern farming in Kenya if not for the tireless experiments of the Briton Lord Delamere. One of the greatest lawyers in the world, the only one in his profession to ever make the Time magazine cover, was the local Greek Byron Georgiadis. The Polish Red Cross Co-ordinator, Prince Eustachy Jan Sapieha, saved innumerable refugees by bringing them to Kenya during the 1940s. And the list goes on. Certainly the most famous of all remains the Danish writer Karen Blixen. The contribution Europeans have made cannot be underestimated, be it in terms of medical care, education or the legal system. But most important of all they introduced the maize plant, now the indispensable and favourite source of food for Kenyans. Isn’t it, therefore, high time that in the spirit of inclusiveness they were embraced and named the ‘45th tribe’? The term ‘tribe’ might be temporarily useful, levelling the field so to speak, but is rife with potential pitfalls, which needs further debate. For what about those who do not fit its rather selective and narrow scope? The Dutch adage, so full of timeless wisdom, ‘Live and let live’, is the best prescription for the survival of a multi-ethnic, harmonious nation such as Kenya.   Film director