A number of Kiambu county employees have been forced to take annual leave pending their performance evaluations. The county's 60 ward administrators and communication officers were served with letters on Wednesday. The communication officers were asked to take 30-day leave from August 22. The lot were asked to hand over vehicles, equipment and any other county material in their possession. They will be on leave until October 3 after which they will be told whether or not they will retain their jobs. "The county has not specified the reason we are proceeding on compulsory leave," said one who declined to be named. In a letter signed by chief officer Marie Mugo, the team was told to hand over the equipment to their supervisors and obtain clearance for the same. Word at the county headquarters is that the purge may include county executive committee members and directors. TOUGH TASK FOR WAITITU Observers say Governor Ferdinand Waititu is keen on cleaning up the county's payroll in a bid to deal with the bloated workforce. Other quarters argue that the mission is to remove workers who were hired without due procedure. Former county chief William Kabogo was on many occasions accused of brewing nepotism in county appointments. Some of the employees have resigned from their positions in fear of being sacked. Others are not sure they will keep their jobs, having been involved in a smear social media campaign against Waititu ahead of the August 8 polls. During the campaigns, a number of ward administrators were accused of publicly pushing for Kabogo in defiance of law. The task may prove complex for the new Governor since most of the workers were hired on permanent and pensionable bases. Public Service Commission chair Margaret Kobia has warned incoming county administrations against sacking workers. She says this will subject counties to many cases which may see them make settlements using county funds. Kobia said the sackings, which many of the new county bosses are considering, will also destabilise the human resource. In Machakos, Governor Alfred Mutua sent 437 workers home in what he termed "radical surgery" whose ultimate goal is to improve service delivery to the people. In Kajiado, employees are jittery amid claims Governor Joseph ole Lenku is planning a clean-up of the workforce. Read: 437 Machakos workers suspended in Mutua's 'radical surgery' More on this: Job uncertainty grips Kajiado as Lenku seeks to replace CECs, chief officers