President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, and their diehard defenders, are firing salvoes of defiance and derision after Raila filed a Supreme Court petition challenging Kenyatta's official win. Kenyatta yesterday called Raila "ungentlemanly", a "man of riddles" and a roadblock to unity and development. Raila yest3rday called Kenyatta a "lackey" of foreign powers, a "computer-generated President" and an inferior leader. Kenyatta has dismissed Raila's petition, saying his super-majority in the bicameral Parliament proves he won fair and square. But Raila resolutely signalled a protracted battle irrespective of the verdict, saying the opposition will “resist and disobey illegitimate computer-generated leaders”. Speaking for the first time against the petition that threatens his second term, Uhuru said he has a majority of governors, senators and MPs, clear proof of the Jubilee wave that swept the country. “As Jubilee we have like 27 governors, the majority, we have about 28 senators, majority, we have 31 women representatives, we have about 170 MPs, again a majority,” Uhuru said during the swearing in Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso yesterday. “Anyway it's his [Raila's] right to go to court and we are waiting for the verdict. But he ought to be a gentleman, like his co-principal here, Isaac Rutto, so Kenya moves forward. But let him follow his constitutional right.” Uhuru extended an olive branch to Rutto, the CCM leader, to team up with Jubilee and abandon what he called “men of riddles”. At the 39th memorial service for his father, President Jomo Kenyatta, Uhuru expressed confidence the apex court will uphold his reelection and grant him another term to conclude his development agenda. “When we are through with issues ahead of us, and I know God will grant victory, we will unite with you once again,” Uhuru told congregants at St Stephen's Cathedral Church, Nairobi. “There is no single Kenyan who made a mistake by casting his ballot because it was his or her right.” The IEBC says Uhuru won with 8.2 million votes to Raila's 6.7 million. Raila says he won by more than 8 million to Uhuru's 7.2 million votes. But speaking yesterday at the inauguration of his right-hand man, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Raila launched what he called "the only weapon that has worked against political injustice — people power". “Colonial subjugation, one-party dictatorship and the oppressive constitution were not outlawed by the courts. They were overcome by people’s determined resistance...History also tells us the powerful never give up power and privilege without a fight,” Raila told exuberant supporters at Mama Ngina Drive. The Supreme Court decision will be delivered on September 1 — paving way for Uhuru's swearing in or fresh polls within 60 days. Yesterday, a furious Raila scoffed at global powers pushing him to concede defeat. “Let agents of foreign powers exhorting us to accept and move on so they can continue to have lackeys do their bidding know we will not accept inferior governance. We will resist and disobey illegitimate computer-generated leaders and we won't relent until the voices of the people, expressed through the ballot, are heard and respected,” the ODM leader pledged. Then and only then, Raila said, “shall the ambitions of our young, restless and ambitious leaders like Ali Hassan Joho, Peter Munya, Isaac Rutto, Amason Kingi, among others, ever have a chance of rising to the top." According to Raila, elections should end with the vote tally. But he said, "The Supreme Court is made up of seven judges. The discretion of seven individuals, however wise, can neither represent nor substitute the voice of 15 million people,” Raila said. “Seven individuals can be intimidated, they can be compromised and they can make genuine mistakes.” Raila termed frequent determination of election outcomes by courts “a deliberate cynical ploy to lend a cloak of legal respectability to fraud, subversion of democracy and abuse of the court process”. “If we accept doing it this way, the courts will never allowed to be independent by those who want to rely on them to subvert the will of the people,” he said. Whichever way the court rules, Raila said, the petition will not cure electoral impunity. He said the petition will not bring to justice those who plotted and executed electoral theft and the murderers of ex-IEBC IT Manager Chris Msando. “It will not hold to account those who sought to cow us by unleashing terror in Mathare, Kibera and Kisumu,” Raila said. The opposition chief called the August 8 polls the “crudest electoral fraud since the mlolongo elections of 1988”. The only electoral fraud as crude as the recent vote is the one in Azerbaijan where results leaked before polling stations opened. “With this election, our fledgling democracy has been subverted into a system called electoral authoritarianism. In this system dictators give a cloak of democratic respectability by organizing sham elections every four or five years. We are moving from bad to worse,”Raila said “This time, the computer was set at 54 per cent in favour of the incumbent other select gubernatorial races countrywide. Next time it will set at 70. Few people will bother to vote after that. Thereafter, it will be life presidents elected with 98 percent of the vote.” In his petition filed on Friday, Raila describes a coordinated strategy to rig in Uhuru, exposing instances of what he calls a massive pattern of vote manipulation. The petition says his votes were systematically reduced while Uhuru's were consistently inflated in an elaborate plan to guarantee the incumbent's victory. The NASA presidential flagbearer claims he lost up to 500 votes at a single polling station, citing the example Tonye Primary, Migori County. “In Form 34A submitted by the petitioner’s agent in respect of Tonye Primary Polling Station, North Kamagambo, indicates Odinga Raila had 561 while in Form 34B he had two votes only!” an affidavit by Nyangasi Oduwo, Economic Adviser to Mombasa Governor Joho, states. DP William Ruto said the polls were anchored in unity and development of the country. “We were told, then, it was not possible to win on the basis of a development agenda but President Uhuru built bridges of friendship and unity amongst all people, Ruto said. “I am sure Mzee Kenyatta is proud in Heaven to see what has become of the country that he formed."   