Deputy President William Ruto has laughed off recent opinion polls that put NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking at a live interview broadcast by three Kalenjin vernacular stations, Ruto pleaded with the community to turn out in large numbers on Tuesday. The DP rubbished the outcomes of the pollsters, saying they misled Kenyans during the 2013 general elections. He said the opinion polls then put Uhuru’s popularity at 43 per cent against Raila’s 51 per cent and they were proved wrong after a majority of Kenyans voted for Uhuru. On Tuesday, a survey by Infotrack indicated that Raila would win the election by 49 per cent against Uhuru’s 48 per cent. The Infotrack poll differed with Ipsos Synovate survey that reported that Uhuru will win the election by 47 per cent against Raila – 44 per cent. “These are the pollsters that announced that Raila would have beaten Uhuru Kenyatta by 51 per cent in 2013, but what happened? Uhuru still won the elections,” Ruto said. Read; Uhuru 3% ahead of Raila, Ipsos finds in last poll before Tuesday vote He questioned the credibility of opinion polls for indicating that no presidential candidate would garner 50 per cent plus one vote in 2013, urging Kenyans not to believe reports by pollsters. “You can believe opinion polls at your own risk, but the ultimate pollsters are the Kenyan voters who turn out and vote on Tuesday,” Ruto said. The DP exudes confidence that Jubilee will beat Raila-led NASA by at least three million votes after making inroads in regions that never voted Jubilee in 2013. He said the infrastructure projects and revival of defunct factories across the country will increase votes in Jubilee’s vote basket. “…for instance in 2013, we only had one campaign Rally in Bungoma that lasted for 45 minutes. We have held several rallies ahead of the 2017 general elections in the same Western region. This tells you that we will gain more votes in Western than we did in 2013,” he said. He added that the revival of Panpaper factory in Webuye and Mumias Sugar bailout also improved Jubilee’s ratings in Western Kenya. DP Ruto dismissed reports that his support in his Rift Valley backyard is waning after he fell out with Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto who formed his own Chama Cha Mashinane Party after URP was dissolved to form Jubilee Party. Read: Opposition has made my tenure tough, says Uhuru He said Governor Rutto left Jubilee without any tangible reason. The DP criticized Rutto of opposing national government projects in his Bomet county and that he had his priorities wrong. “You can’t believe it. He (Governor Rutto) went to court to stop the establishment of a university in Bomet, arguing that the site where the new varsity will be constructed should be a dump site. So this is a person who had his priorities wrong,” Ruto said. He defended Jubilee's track record the four years in power and accused Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka of doing little in the grand coalition government when they were Prime Minister and Vice President respectively. He said Jubilee connected power to 98 per cent of all primary schools and delivered at one million tablets to standard one pupils across the country. DP Ruto said the National Youth Service tainted the image of the Jubilee administration, but however noted that the funds stolen on the scam were recovered. The interview was jointly aired by Kass FM, Chamgei FM and Emo FM.