Kenyan Insurance firms need to fully integrate digital disruption into their businesses to accelerate premium incomes in the face of a young dynamic customer base and a rapidly expanding middle class. “CEO’s both globally and in East Africa must change the old ways of thinking and old models to create transformational eco-systems that deliver on their ambitions,” analysts at KPMG said. The KPMG report on Insurance chief executives shows that only 48 per cent of the insurance bosses plan to increase investment into innovation over the next three years while 52 per cent expect to achieve less than two per cent growth over the same period. The survey established that risks in the insurance business are changing including management of operational risk, talent, cyber as well as emerging technology in the sector. “We expect to see more automation as disruptive technology and innovation creates digital labour and solutions like block-chain,” the report stated. The Insurance Regulatory Authority has made provisions for the adoption of a risk based regime ahead of a planned regulatory overhaul that includes establishing a Financial Services Authority to consolidate the fragmented insurance landscape. Through this the authority is targeting to expand the annual insurance sector earnings by six per cent over the next five years as opposed to the current 2.9 per cent contribution to the country’s gross domestic product. The KPMG survey showed that at least 36 per cent of insurance firms believe that emerging technologies were their greatest risk while 69 per cent said that they were planning on investing in digital infrastructure over the next three years. “Our experience suggests that most insurers are now undertaking some form of emerging technology implementation,” KPMG's Global Head of Insurance Gary Reader said. He however said that majority of these efforts were only happening at the functional or project level rather than the enterprise level. “If insurers truly want to reinvent their customer proposition, they need to take a much more fundamental approach to their transformation and innovation initiatives,” Reader said. KPMG surveyed over 100 Insurance CEO’s from across 10 markets.   