The Capital Market Authority is pursuing a business incubator approach to attract SMEs on the Nairobi Securities Exchange through the Growth Enterprise Market Segments (GEMS) This, according to the capital market soundness report released on Wednesday is set to mitigate risks and uncertainties on the stock market which is firmly in the hands of top 10 companies that control 80.47 per cent of the total market share. The CMA Chief Paul Muthaura said that increased number of listings on the exchange will lower market dominance by wealthy firms hence market stability in case other listed firms are hit with financial crisis. “The exchange market risk wobbling in the event a dominant firm like Safaricom which commands 40.99 per cent of total market share go down,” explained Muthaura. The report shows that top five listed companies in terms of market capitalization commands 65.61 per cent of the total market cap, confirming the dominance of a few companies on the NSE. These companies includes Safaricom, East Africa Breweries Limited, Equity Bank, KCB and BAT Kenya who command 40.99, 9.21, 6.41, 5.21 and 3.81 per cent respectively. The planned incubator and accelerator approach to sensitize SMEs and family businesses to consider listing will perhaps help to stimulate the dormant GEMS market on NSE. Only five SMEs have since listed on the exchange through the segment since its launch in early 2013. ‘’We have fallen short of target. Our target was to list at least three GEMS on NSE every year since 2013, we have only managed five. Most qualified family owned SMEs are reluctant to trade in the public market. However, sensitization programme is in place to bring them on board,’’ said Muthaura. The minimum requirements for listing an SME on the GEMS market include fully paid up capital of Sh10 million and a float of not less than 100,000 shares. SMEs must offer at least 15 per cent of their shares for trading on the exchange and would be delisted if the shareholders fall below 25. The soundness report also revealed a decrease in activities among listed bank in the country.