Talented singer Nyamari Ongegu, popularly known as Nyashinski, is no longer single. The music sensation is taken! Nyashinski, whose music has always dominated the local airwaves and swayed Kenyan women's hearts, is enjoying the warmth of a popular CEO. Rapper Nyashinski is said to be dating Eugene Masika's ex-girlfriend, Zia Bett. Eugene, a student of Daystar University, was one of the speakers at the launch of the Nasa manifesto, while the lass is the CEO of Zia Collection Clothing. She has been sharing photos of her and Nyashinski and recently, she posted a photo of them together looking lovey dovey, and a close friend to the Daystar University told us that: "They are in love. Nandi always talks about how Nyashinski treats her. Many, including our former schoolmates, are envious of her. Rumour has it that they will formalise their relationship very soon." Zia, who prefers a private life away from the spotlight, is enchanting to look at and the many photos on her social media account tell it all. "I'm a dark-skinned girl. Always felt inferior to light-skinned girls. I suck in my stomach when I remember, other times I just don't care. Sometimes my arms look small, other times it's evident I skip triceps day at the gym. I love children and sometimes fashion, currently obsessed with gyming. I'm good at bringing people together, not very good at listening. I believe in God and have a deep relationship with him but fail him daily. Only through him I'm reminded, that "Hanty, you're more than enough", even though sometimes I forget," she recently posted. Nyashinski was originally a member of the Kleptomaniax music group but left to the US and came back last year after a long hiatus. He is currently the most sought-after Kenyan musician. His hot jams are doing well and he is getting gigs almost every weekend. He is the proverbial hot cake. The singer did not pick up numerous phone calls, nor did he respond to our WhatsApp messages, apart from getting blue ticked. It seems the Mungu Peke star wants to keep his love life on the down low.