Henrie Mutuku, 39, is a pioneer in the Kenyan gospel industry. During her peak in the early 2000s, her songs were blasted in matatus and secular stations. She disappeared from the limelight in 2004, released a single called 'Langu' in 2014, got married, then recently, she launched her second album after more than a decade-long hiatus.She speaks to the Star about what she has been up to, what she thinks about the sponsor culture currently sweeping across Kenya, the commercialisation of the gospel industry, and her marriage.In 2002, Henrie Mutuku, then 24 years old, released a song that was a response to what she felt was the corruption of young women&rsquo;s morals by girl bands such as Destiny&rsquo;s Child. Manzi wa Maana was a call to girls to be chaste, hardworking, God-fearing and modest in their dressing.Well, 15 years later, there is a whole new trend corrupting women&rsquo;s minds: the sponsor culture. Henrie says, &ldquo;Our society esteems money as the ultimate depiction of success. This drives us to do all we can to get it. Young women imagine that well-to-do, older men &mdash; never mind their marital status &mdash; are their ticket to the good life everyone is trumpeting about.&rdquo;It&rsquo;s no wonder her new album, Tena, has a song called Run that calls on single women to abstain until marriage and urges the married to be faithful to their spouses.Henrie does not absolve parents from responsibility for their children. &ldquo;Parents should gladly provide for their children, and ask them when they are of age where their money is coming from.&rdquo;During her hiatus, Henrie got married in 2014 at the age of 36 to Charles Njau, a bi-vocational youth pastor at Buru Buru Baptist Church. She also worked in different capacities, including research. In our society, she would be considered an old maid, but Henrie says she married at the right time for her, and that women should not rush to marriage without thinking of the responsibility and commitment it demands.&ldquo;Do not get married because of pressure. Marriage is a covenant and you will be responsible for that no matter the circumstances in life, until death parts you.&rdquo;Henrie says young women should watch the company they keep to avoid negative influences. &ldquo;It would really help young women to cultivate relationships with godly, older women doing what the Bible teaches. Older women can teach them how to be sober, discreet, chaste, loving to their husbands and children, homemakers and obedient to their own husbands.&rdquo;Henrie is yet to have children, but she says she is thoroughly enjoying married life. &ldquo;Married life is wonderful. My husband is understanding, very patient and supportive. Our families and the church family have also been very supportive with advice, godly example and encouragement."WHY SHE LEFT INDUSTRYHenrie stepped out of the limelight in 2004 and returned in 2014. She says, &ldquo;I have been living a quiet, obscure life. I have been employed in different capacities, such as a researcher, and done conference organisation.&rdquo;She is currently pursuing a Master&rsquo;s degree in diplomacy and foreign policy.Henrie decided to leave the limelight because of a number of personal reasons.She says she doesn't regret stepping out of the limelight because her relationship with God and peace are the most important things to her.Henrie launched her second album, 'Tena', in February. It has different styles of music, is in English and Kiswahili, and has Bible messages. It is rich with melody and harmonies. And we ask, has she been influenced by secular sounds?"Yes, I have. It&rsquo;s a struggle not to get sucked in. I encourage listeners to send in feedback and constructive criticism once they have listened to it.&ldquo;As for gospel music, when I left, it was a ministry, not an industry. Yes, it has provided employment for many, but in looking for commercial success, the message of the gospel has been watered down. It is now more of motivational, inspirational, prosperity and feel-good messages. That is also a general challenge to the church in our times, and the music is a reflection of that challenge.&rdquo;Henrie says some of her songs are targeted towards the youth, but the whole album is meant to reach the whole family. She hopes everyone will find something they can relate to in the album. She continues, &ldquo;For one, the truth is we are all growing older, so youth is not a destination. It is very fleeting. Secondly, the Bible teaches that we are to flee youthful lusts. I'm wondering whether our music is really achieving this. We have a dancing movement of youth, being entertained and entertaining. I would like to see at least 10 per cent of our youth in church participate and have the self-discipline it takes to go into church missions, church planting and outreach, and I pray and hope to contribute to that with music.&rdquo;Henrie says, &ldquo;We are wasting the youth by giving them music that does not call us to eternal value. I'm trying very hard to wean myself off secular influence, though it is very hard since it is in all our public spaces. I'm taking in more of psalms and hymns so I can produce spiritual songs. It is a learning curve.&rdquo;She concludes by saying she is happy there are more opportunities to train gospel musicians than before. Henrie cites Daystar and Kabarak universities, which offer courses to help gospel musicians. "But there is still a lot more to be done."SIDEBAR: The secularisation of gospel musicVarious local and international musicians have been criticised for saying they are gospel artistes yet their lyrics, beats and even dresscode seem secular.In Kenya, Willy Paul has been stalked by controversy &ndash; from being associated with a string of girls, to his lifestyle, which some say is not Christ-like, to some of his songs. Last year, he released a song with fellow gospel artiste Size 8 called &lsquo;Tiga Wana&rsquo; that left people wondering whether they were losing the plot. The song did not sound gospel-like, and neither did the video.Size 8 herself has gone through her share of criticism. She started out as a secular musician and released songs including &lsquo;Shamba Boy&rsquo;, &lsquo;Moto&rsquo; and &lsquo;Vidonge&rsquo;. Her stage performances were high energy and she became notorious for powerful kicks on stage as she sang.When she crossed over to the gospel scene, people were sceptical about whether she had really &lsquo;seen the light&rsquo; and gotten saved, or whether she was trying to get a chunk of the money pie gospel musicians seemed to be enjoying. She released a song called &lsquo;Mateke&rsquo; and moved from the powerful kicks on stage to kicking the devil. She has held her own in the industry now.Farther afield, in the US, gospel duo Mary Mary has sometimes been accused of secularising gospel music. They have worked with &lsquo;people from the secular world&rsquo;. For example, in the &lsquo;God in me&rsquo; video, Kanye West and his then-girlfriend Amber Rose made a cameo. Mary Mary received a lot of backlash for this, but they said they were keen to work with more secular artistes because that is a way to take the gospel to a wider audience. Some have also criticised their mode of dressing, saying it is secular. But they have maintained they were blessed with curves and cannot hide them even if they tried.Before them, there was Kirk Franklin and his God&rsquo;s Property band. Their music was considered radical, with the hip hop beats and energetic dancing. But people finally accepted it and now he is one of the most recognisable gospel artistes of our time.