There is nothing more annoying than electoral and economic injustices because they deny people their fair share of political power and resources.When Kenyans wanted to end electoral and economic injustices under one-party dictatorship, they created the counties, which have unfortunately been dominated by ethnic elites, as the poor people remain indigent.Devolution and multiparty elections now seem to fail as just means of diminishing our greed and sharing power and resources.With the failure of devolution and multiparty democracy as means of creating a equitable society, there is an explosive suggestion that Kenyan communities should divorce or split and become tiny ethnic republics that Nyerere used to call viinchi, keeping their own power and &ldquo;eating&rdquo; their own resources.But will our electoral problems end by splitting Kenya into viinchi like the former Yugoslavia? And will Africans solve poverty problems through false solutions such as ethnic federalism, that we now have, military dictatorship, rotational presidency &mdash; that killed Yugoslavia &mdash; government of national unity, which we have tried already, no-party democracy, which President Yoweri Museveni toyed with and redrawing the map of Africa that some of us now want?Through the courts, the recent election can be annulled and a free and fair polls held. But we should not think of balkanizing Kenya into tiny ethnic states merely to gain power.Secession is an extreme measure. It should not be rushed to as a solution to oppression, rigging of elections (which I am a victim of) or dictatorship as Kenyan-Somali elites tried through the Shifta War. The Kikuyu elites advocated it through Gema in 1998 and those in the Coast region tried it through the Mombasa Republican Council.Portraying secession as the ultimate solution and the best and surest way to end negative ethnicity and ethnic discrimination in Africa is to dissolve national boundaries and give every ethnic community a country of its own.In effect, elites advocating secession want Africans to redraw the map of Africa. Yet creating African ethnic states will perhaps be the worst crime of negative ethnicity and elite greed for power, in that it will make Africa weak and vulnerable as she was when the slave trade subjected her to history&rsquo;s longest holocaust.The argument goes that since so many ethnic communities no longer coexist in a peaceful marriage, splitting up Africa is the only viable solution. And this argument is not entirely new. In an effort to create a Biafran state for the Ibo people, a bloody war was fought and millions killed. Thereafter, there have been ethnic conflicts in Ethiopia, Kenya, Zanzibar, Congo, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan.Champions of changing boundaries rightly point out that the current boundaries were drawn in a marriage that was imposed by colonialists to serve Europeans rather than African interests. Despite Independence, this situation was not corrected and many believe it is more natural that each ethnic community should now live as one country, as they did before colonialism. Conclusion is then advanced that the only way to correct ethnic conflicts is to revert to the pre-colonial ethnic design.But we are more than 2,000 ethnic groups in Africa. As George Ayittey asks in Africa in Chaos,&ldquo;Can we survive with more than a thousand little &lsquo;Djiboutis&rsquo;, each with its own currency, flag, national airline with a one-plane fleet and a Swiss bank account for the president?&rdquo;The way to secure peace and solutions to our problems is not to entrench negative ethnicity by cutting up the continent and each individual country into as many ethnic states as there are countries and ethnic communities. People are safer, more prosperous and happier when they are united, because united they are stronger and ultimately freer. To live separately as tiny ethnic countries, African communities will weaken and become more vulnerable to imperialist predators.Africa must learn a lesson from the US and the EU, and not from the split-up former Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union. When many communities co-exist, they reinforce one another&rsquo;s external security. When they separate, they become one another&rsquo;s potential enemy and diminish their external security. In fact, countries can only separate and secede through war and blood. A more viable approach to an ethnic redrawing of the map of Africa is to join communities and countries into larger countries. Dr Makau wa Mutua has suggested that today&rsquo;s 54 African states could be compressed into 14 larger states. Even better, the whole of Africa could become one country &ndash; Africa.If African elites learn how to think big, they will think less ethnic. But to do that, they have to shed negative ethnicity. They must resist the current ethnic temptation to split and instead preserve the countries we have, imperfect as they may be, and consider them as foundations for something greater. We need leaders with minds to embrace Pan-Africanism and the vision of one united and stronger Africa.To end the danger of splitting Kenya, we need not more negative ethnicity but a system that is based on sharing power and wealth, one not built on some people and communities exploiting others. This system must be socialist, democratic and humanist. Through socialism, it will distribute resources to all. Through democracy, it will give people power. Through humanism, it will keep people unified.Let us preserve, not end, the marriage of our communities. It is possible if we share power and resources and treat each other better.