Elgeyo Marakwet Governor-elect Alex Tolgos has said he wants to heal a serious political rift between the Keiyo and Marakwet communities. This follows a heated battle over the governor’s position and other top seats in the county in the just-concluded election. Tolgos said the county should unite and move forward as one community. “My administration has always been fair to all residents,” Tolgos said. He spoke to journalists in Iten on Thursday. Tolgos, a Marakwet, faced stiff competition from independent candidate Moses Changwony, who is from the Keiyo community. Apart from the governor’s seat, all other top seats, including that of senator and woman representative, went to the Marakwet community. This has caused political differences with the Keiyos. The two Kalenjin subtribes inhabit the county. Governor Tolgos has invited residents from all communities to attend his swearing-in ceremony on Monday as he starts the second term in office He said he will carry out fresh recruitment of all senior staff in the county, including his cabinet, to ensure he includes Keiyos in the top management of the county affairs. Tolgos said he will advertise all positions and those interested, including current staff, can apply. “We will then pick the most qualified to work for the people of Elgeyo Marakwet,” he said. Before the election, Tolgos dropped Deputy Governor Gabriel Lamaon and picked Wesley Rotich to deputise him. Tolgos and Nandi Governor-elect Stephen Sang have also separately rejected budgets set aside for their swearing-in ceremonies, terming them unnecessary. Some Sh15 million had been set for the inauguration ceremony in Elgeyo Marakwet, but Tolgos ordered the budget to be cut down to Sh2 million. “Our county has serious needs and the extra cash will be channelled to better use to benefit our people,” he said. The governor said his second term will focus on completing key projects he has initiated in all wards in the county. In Nandi, Sang rejected a budget of Sh30 million for new cars and his swearing-in. Instead of breakfast at a high-end hotel on Monday after his swearing-in, Sang will join students at Kapsabet Boys’ High School. Sang said the money saved will be used to buy medicine and hospital supplies.  