A six-point gap and a match-in-hand gives SportPesa Premier League leaders Gor Mahia looks like the perfect recipe that Gor Mahia need in their quest to defend their national and record equaling title. After recovering from a poor run shortly before their new manager Dylan Kerr was contracted to take over from his assistant Zedekiah Otieno, K’Ogalo have put in a champions-in-the-making display, winning four and drawing once in the five matches that the new boss has overseen. Gor could extend the lead to nine points if they win their game in hand. With teams heading for the international Fifa break this weekend, the 15-time champions have 44 points from 21 matches. The 2009 champions Sofapaka are second on 38 points after  22 matches. Batoto Ba Mungu were headed for a terrible finish, similar to last season, but their president Elly Kalekwa dug deep into his coffers and raided the transfer market in a move that have brought instantaneous impact. Before the season began many had written them off as serious title contenders due to their non-aggressive demeanour in signing new players and financial hiccups which had almost grounded the club. However, a Sh50 million sponsorship deal with betting firm Betika enabled them to make big buys, reviving their hopes of a second KPL title. Their high scoring and superb combinations in all units has propelled them to not only second place but are waiting on the wings should Gor falter at some stage in the run-in. Posta Rangers are third with 35 points after 22 matches. Sammy Omollo’s mailmen began the season on a high, registering a nine-match unbeaten run giving Kenyan football fans hopes of a surprise champion. However, things got rough for Rangers with most of their matches ending in draws. 2010 champions Ulinzi Stars, who are away in Rwanda for the East AFrica Military Games are fourth with 32 points from 20 matches. Defending champions Tusker are fifth with 30 points albeit they have a game in hand. The brewers had a slow start only to win five consecutive clashes which reminded their rivals of their presence in the league in addition to ambitions to retain their crown. However, things went awry for the Ruaraka-based club recently, failing to register a win in their ... matches and exiting the GOtv Shield competition at the quarter-final stage at the hands of Vihiga United, ending their hopes of a silverware this season. AFC Leopards are slowly rediscovering their confidence following the return of Robert Matano and are currently ranked 13th with 24 points. Debutants Kariobangi Sharks, Nakumatt, Nzoia Sugar and Zoo Kericho have settled well in the league. Sharks are sixth with 31 points, Nzoia Sugar are 9th with 30 points while Nakumatt and Zoo are 11th and 12 with 26 points each. Thika United (20points), Muhoroni Youth (18) and Western Stima (18) sit in the bottom three.