Facebook rolled out a tool
this week to help Kenyan users spot fake news ahead of a
hotly-contested presidential election that has seen supporters
of rival candidates trade bitter words online. Voters go to the polls on Tuesday to pick a president,
parliament and regional representatives. Incumbent President
Uhuru Kenyatta is running against his archrival, veteran
opposition leader Raila Odinga. Final polls have shown a tight race between both candidates
after months of campaigning where supporters smeared each other
on social media. The torture and murder of a senior official at the electoral
commission last weekend generated an avalanche of conspiracy
theories and accusations. A survey of 2,000 Kenyans carried out through mobile phone
messaging found that nine out of every 10 respondents had seen
fake news and half of consumers got news through social media,
according to a study by Geopoll and Portland Communications last
month. "Fake news is increasingly becoming a big problem in Kenya,"
said Alphonce Shiundu, the Kenya editor of Africa Check, a
non-profit organisation seeking to boost fact checking and
newsgathering on the continent. Facebook's 7 million monthly users in Kenya will see the new
tool to help them evaluate content displayed prominently when
they log on. It leads to a page with tips on how to spot fake
news, including checking web addresses and sources and looking
for other reports on the topic, Facebook said in a statement. The new tool will be complemented by adverts in newspapers
and radio stations. The announcements will be in both English
and the local Swahili language. Fake news, mainly generated by website owners in order to
drive readers to their sites to generate advertising revenue,
was thrust into the spotlight during the US presidential
election last year. The issue has also become a big political topic in Europe,
with French voters deluged with false stories ahead of the
presidential election in May and Germany backing a plan to fine
social media networks if they fail to remove hateful postings
promptly, ahead of elections there in September. Firms like Facebook have fought back by cutting financial
incentives for sources of fake news, locking fake user accounts,
limiting spam and reducing links to suspect pages. "People want to see accurate information on Facebook," said
Ebele Okobi, director of policy at Facebook Africa. Kenya's electoral commission said it had been a victim of
online fake news but it did not provide details. Recent examples of fake election news for Kenya include a
photograph of a crumbling bridge in a section of a new $3.2
billion railway that Kenyatta touts as one of his main
achievements, Africa Check said. A fake document claiming the company that organised a
television debate that Kenyatta snubbed was owned by key Odinga
allies was also an example of fake news, the organisation said. "From the kinds of things that we have seen doing rounds
online, on Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, and websites mimicking
real news sites, we get the sense that there’s a lot of false
content about the elections," Shiundu said.