The name Jimmy Wanjigi (pictured) sends shivers down people’s spines, especially those in Jubilee. When the news broke that he had joined NASA and was determined to ensure Raila Odinga wins, many Jubilee leaders led by the Deputy President William Ruto launched a series of attacks against the businessman and NASA leaders. However, and unknown to many, things have not been rosy. We are told that Jimmy has become a nightmare to some people in NASA. Apart from making demands and promising things he hasn’t delivered, the man, we are told, has rubbed so many up the wrong way that even one principal does not get along with him now. === An MP from Nakuru county is a man on the spot. Reason? The legislator, who lost during the Jubilee Party primaries, is during the day part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection team campaign caravan, but during the night he is campaigning against the Jubilee candidate who he lost to during April primaries. The lawmaker has been criss-crossing the constituency during the night, telling the voters not to vote for the young politician. Uhuru has however been informed of the politician’s shenanigans and Corridors has learnt that the MP’s being kicked out of the national Jubilee campaign caravan is imminent. === A NASA honcho from Nyanza is in panic after his attempts to defraud the campaign team of some cash hit a dead-end last week. The former lawmaker, who is part of the NASA presidential campaign team, got the shock of his life after his tricks to inflate accommodation costs of the campaign team were thwarted. The politician had been asked to book hotel rooms for some of the presidential campaign secretariat team but decided to hatch a plot to get a cut of Sh200,000 by exaggerating prices. It was a shameful encounter when some officials confronted him over the dirty work in what nearly ended in a fistfight. === So, is another batch of police officers being trained at Embakasi? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that AP and regular police officers being trained on the election are set to “graduate” today. A police officer was heard whispering that the poll trainees are well taken care of. For instance, they have special meals, different from the recruits training at the facility. He also claimed that his colleagues would be entitled to a huge “allowance” after the polls. It is unclear why the hefty allowance would be paid and by whom. A few weeks ago, opposition chief Raila Odinga claimed police officers, together with the military, were being trained to rig the election. The claims triggered a bitter exchange between Jubilee and NASA.