An inquest has heard of frantic efforts by nurses at Nyahururu district hospital to revive the late Olympic marathoner Samuel Wanjiru the night he died. Dr Joseph Kinyua told the inquest on Monday of circumstances surrounding the death of the athlete and that he was admitted in critical condition and died 45 minutes later. “Blood was coming out of his mouth. He also had blood in the nose and ears although it was not flowing," Kinyua said. The court also heard that Wanjiru’s pulse rate was very high and his temperature low while his blood pressure was at level 150/40, which the doctor said was abnormal. “He was given resuscitator drugs and the doctor who was in charge that night ordered a battery of investigations, including scans and blood analysis." The inquest is trying to establish if Wanjiru’s death was an accident or if he was murdered at his palatial Nyahururu home. He died on May 15, 2011, at the age of 24. A pathologist has ruled out suicide and suggested the runner was hit with a blunt object outside his house after he jumped or fell from the balcony. His mother Hannah Wanjiru previously told the inquest that police officers in Nyahururu, her son's lawyer and his wife Triza Njeri were involved in his death. Read: Samuel Wanjiru’s wife ‘fought woman’ in their bedroom before his death, court told While giving his evidence, Kinyua said that due to poor blood circulation, Kamau did not respond to “handling” which he explained to mean reacting to pain. Due to the clots of blood in his nose and ears, Dr Elizabeth Kibe suspected his blood had mixed with body fluids in the brain. “He was brought in unconscious by relatives on a stretcher with the history of having fallen from a height at midnight," states a report prepared by Dr Kibe which was tabled in court. “At 12.20am he was still gasping but his condition was deteriorating so we decided to directly pump oxygen through his mouth." But despite all that his condition worsened and he was confirmed dead at 12.45 am. During cross examination, Dr Kinyua confirmed that Kamau was given proper medical care, although those who took him to the hospital failed to give a complete history. The doctor also said that from medical reports generated by Dr Kibe that day, he could not confirm what may have led to the death of the marathoner. Wanjiru's mother later reiterated her claims that a mysterious woman and six other people were let into her son’s home a few minutes before the lights went off and he was found in a pool of blood. While being cross examined, Hannah insisted, amid objections by lawyers representing Njeri, that CCTV footage retrieved from the couple’s home showed strangers being ushered in after she arrived, minutes to 11pm. More on this: Samuel Wanjiru’s mum links cops , lawyer, wife to son’s murder Also read: Six men entered Samuel Wanjiru’s home before he died – mother 