Migori Governor Okoth Obado yesterday extended an olive branch to his rivals at the just-concluded polls to “join me in building the county”. Obado and Deputy Governor Mwita Mahanga were sworn in in Migori County Stadium by judge Reuben Nyakundi in a ceremony marked by pomp and colour. Obado defeated his arch-rival Ochilo Ayacko to win the county top job. He had 201,369 votes against Ayacko’s 113,673. Ayacko only beat him in Awendo and Rongo constituencies, with Obado winning the rest. “I assure my opponents that I will not discriminate against anyone. I urge all of you to give me the necessary support so we move ahead,” Obado said. He said despite bruising campaigns marred by violence and intimidation, “Migori’ needed to heal and promote the virtues of brotherliness, peace and solidarity so together we realise the fruit of devolution.” The county government last week advertised positions for all nine county executives and 16 chief officers. Lobbying among interested parties has started in earnest. Several directors are also expected to be added to the list. This is seen as a move by Obado to bring in people from areas that did not benefit from key appointments during his first administration. The county plans to provide clean water to more than 300,000 residents. It has purchased Sh48 million drilling equipment. This will be used to sink more than 200 boreholes in the 40 wards. Obado said they will build water pans in semi-arid lands and protect water springs to ensure adequate supply. “Water provision to all our people is my government’s dream. The issue of water shortage in our towns and urban centres will also be a thing of the past. Our urban centres will have constant water supply,” he pledged. The county chief also plans to reduce water connectivity charges and subsidise rates and make it affordable for as many residents as possible. The county will also establish a fish cooling plant along the shores of Lake Victoria and a sweet potato processing plant in Kuria. Obado said this will promote competitive and sustainable agriculture and improve the economy and people’s livelihoods. “The two plants will enhance value addition. To boost livestock and crop farming, we shall empower extension officers so they visit farmers and advise them accordingly,” he said, adding that all projects will be completed.