While Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i (pictured) who is the acting Interior CS, has turned all his attention to the security of next week’s General Election, some private primary schools have violated the law and are now conducting illegal private tuitions. Schools were closed last week for the August holidays but some schools have devised a way of conducting the outlawed tuition. Pupils attending the tuition in a number of schools in Nairobi’s estates are asked to not to wear uniforms. === Is nominated MP Oburu Oginga headed to the regional East African Legislative Assembly? Corridors has learnt of inside speculation that the MP, who lost to Gideon Ochanda in the Bondo parliamentary race nominations, has been fronted to replace ODM’s EALA nominee Judy Pareno, who is second in the ODM Senate nomination list. Corridors learnt that the party used the Arusha nomination slot to silence the MP, who at first blatantly refused to accept defeat and had waged a total war against Ochanda. === Still on the Orange party, an ODM legislator is a bitter man and yet to forgive the party’s officials he claims contributed to his downfall at the April nominations. The outspoken MP, who decided to contest as an independent, is still angry with ODM officials who oversaw the primaries and has vowed to teach them the lesson of their lives when elected to Parliament. Word has it that his cordial association with party leader Raila Odinga and ODM is unbreakable, hence cannot allow a few individuals with ill motive within the party to end the union. Whether he will make it to Parliament as an independent in an ODM zone to execute his vengeance only the Tuesday election will tell. === NASA has repeatedly affirmed that next month when schools reopen, parents with children in secondary school will not be paying even a single penny. For the past few days, Kenyans have taken to social media joking that if it is true NASA will provide free secondary education, then there is no need for parents to save money for school fees. But how realistic is it really for NASA to win the election and promptly rollout this gigantic programme? === Is a Mt Kenya tycoon who was barred from the Nyeri governor race over ‘fake’ academic papers eying a county job? Well, we have learnt that the Nyeri-based industrialist opted to rally behind the incumbent Governor Samuel Wamathai, who is vying as an independent candidate, and has deployed all his campaign machine to Wamathai’s camp and is now all set to take over the economic welfare of the county if they clinch the seat next week.