Twenty-two governors who successfully defended their seats would be forced to retire or seek ‘lesser seats’ in 2022 after serving the constitutional two five-year terms in office. Those who feel up to the task will run for President, as they will not be allowed under the law to contest for governor. Of the 47 county chiefs, 25 were floored in the disputed August 8 polls - the country’s most hotly contested elections in recent times. Article 179 section 7(a) of the Constitution states that a person shall not hold office as a Governor for more than two terms. Section B also limits the deputy governors’ tenure to two terms “They will seek run for President and create powerful portfolios in national government,” International Center for Policy and Conflict Centre’s Ndung’u Wainaina said. To remain relevant, they will be forced to contest for other political seats in the 2022 polls. The other seats available are MP, Senate and MCA. “They think the world revolves around them, which is not the reality,” political expert Nanjukululu Wasai said while explaining why many politicians in the country are reluctant to leave politics. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi last Tuesday announced their Presidency bids in 2022. “I do not want my political career to end at governorship so I will vie for the presidential seat in 2022,” Joho said during his inauguration in Mombasa onTuesday. On his part, opposition Chief Raila Odinga responded, “We will exercise our sovereignty so that Joho, Kingi and others can have a chance to chase their dreams of becoming presidents.” However, most of them will use their positions to bargain for seats in the new government owing to their experience in governance and influence at the grassroots. Former governors - William Kabogo (Kiambu), Peter Munya (Meru) and Isaac Rutto (Bomet) –had announced plans to contest for the Presidency in 2022 after serving a second term. “In most instances, those who were oppressed tend to do the same when in high office and fail to see to philosophical ideology of changing lives,” Wasai said.   