Railways Gold Club&rsquo;s Alfred Nandwa and multiple amateur champion John Karichu of Limuru are among eight players named in the national golf team to the 2017 East African Challenge to be held between August 22 and 26 at Dar-es-Salaam Gymkhana Club.Also named in the team are two juniors AgilI Is Hag of Nyali Golf Club and Mutahi Kibugu of Muthaiga who have given a good account of themselves over the past few months.Other members making the team are Samuel Njoroge of Railway, this year&rsquo;s Kabate Open winner Edwin Mudanyi of Vet Lab, his teammate Mike Kisia and Dennis Saikwa of Royal Nairobi. The Kenyan delegation leaves on Tuesday August 22 for Tanzania, where they will renew their rivalry with other regional nations including Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and Ethiopia in the battle for the coveted East Africa Golf trophy.The team was selected based on the current Kenya Amateur Golf Championship ranking and JGF Order of merit. Agil Is Hag and Kibugu are the top two juniors.The team will be accompanied by the chairman of Kenya Golf Union Richard Wanjalla, who will double up as head of delegation. Kenya have won the trophy a record 12 times since 1999. Wanjalla exuded confidence that the national team will retain the trophy.&ldquo;The boys are in high spirits and hope to perform better than last year where Kenya and Uganda tied with a total of 16 points at Addis Ababa Golf Club course in Ethiopia,&rdquo; said the chairman. The team has been training for the last one month under the leadership of the new national team coach John Van LiefLlnd. Liefland intends to help the country win coveted trophy by dethroning perennial rivals Uganda.The East Africa Golf Challenge event remains one of the most prestigious golf competitions in the East Africa region. It was first played in 1999 in Kenya and it involves the members of East Africa Community. Competing countries include Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and Ethiopia. The format involves four rounds of golf with singles, foursomes, four-ball better-ball and final singles. Each country will be represented by eight players.