Kirinyaga senator Daniel Karaba failed to retain his seat after losing to independent candidate Charles Kibiru in the results that were announced yesterday morning. Karaba who lost to Kibiru by about 18,000 votes was the only of the immediate former top leaders in the county to clinch the JP ticket during nominations though JP nomination losers ganged up against him and backed Kibiru. KNUT Kirinyaga chapter secretary general Harrison Gichira who wanted the JP ticket but failed to clinch  teamed up with another loser Elias Nganga to support Kibiru hence spelling doom to Karaba's bid to recapture the seat. After the JP nominations Karaba said he was the only one ''lucky enough'' to survive the wrath of the voters since all the other leaders were denied JP tickets by voters bringing in a new crop of leaders with none of the four former MPs retaining their seat. Save for the senate seat and five MCA seats,JP party clinched all the other positions in the county signaling how strong the party is. Ironically,their was a rift between the JP aspirants in the county with some JP candidates openly supporting candidates for other positions from other parties in the county. Elected woman representative Wangui Ngirici of JP had thrown her weight behind Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua who was contesting for governor. When the candidates won the primaries they had promised to campaign together. Waiguru who was declared the governor by county returning officer Samuel Seki opted to choose Peter Ndambiri from Mwea during campaigns as her running mate to tap into the vote rich constituency,Ndambiri did not disappoint and delivered  60 391 which is near half the registered voters in the constituency. Voters in the county have blamed division of former MPs and the former governor Joseph Ndathi for the slow progress of the county. The former MPs Peter Gitari of Kirinyaga Central who has been replaced by John Wambugu, Njogu Barua who became a one term MP and has been replaced by Robert Gichimu and Peter Gitau of Mwea whose replacement is computer scientist Kabinga Wa Thayo did not see eye to eye with Ndathi. The Ndia MP seat was worn by George Kariuki Voters opted to punish all the leaders including the four MPs at the primaries setting the stage for the general elections. In her acceptance speech Waiguru said she will unite all the elected leaders to avoid wrangles that may slow development. Waiguru's key list she has cited include improving healthcare in the county,modernisation of agriculture and improving and expanding the road network in the county. Waiguru also thanked the people of Kirinyaga for trusting her with the county's top leadership. Voters in the county voted almost to the man for President Uhuru Kennyatta who got 285,515 of the vote.