The number
of elected women Members of Parliament is set to go up in the 12th August House, but will still be below the one third minimum set by the Constitution. So far, the elected
women MP's are 23 going by the IEBC's provisional results. The last
parliament had 16 women. None of the 47 county assemblies
will meet the constitutional
threshold of not more than two thirds members of either gender. Political parties
will have to nominate the required number of MCAs to comply with the principle. The federation of women lawyers, FIDA, has threatened to seeking court orders to bar the swearing in of the
next Parliament if it is non-compliant to the gender
rule. “We have already
put up a legal team and we will be moving to court as soon as
possible,” FIDA Chairperson Josephine Mong'are said in a statement. Mong'are applauded the women who clinched various seats in
this years General elections. Public Service, Youth
and Gender CS Sicily Kariuki said she is impressed by the
larger number of elected women this year. She however said there was still a long way to go because the
constitutional threshold has not been achieved. “There is a
general acceptance now in that women are needed in offices and along
political spheres. But we still have a long way to go as a country.
We are not there yet in terms of the constitutional threshold,” she
said. National Gender and
Equality Commission Chair Wilfred Lichuma congratulated the pioneer women Governors and elected Senators. She said her commission has no doubt they will infuse much-needed representation aimed at empowering men, women and the vulnerable in the society. She noted that
Kenyans are also debunking the attitudes around patriarchy and
negative gender stereotypes after the North Eastern and Samburu
Regions produced for the first time a female Senator in Isiolo County
and two MPs in Ijara and Samburu West Constituencies. “As we wait for
the IEBC to conclude tallying and announce the final results, we wish
to see a disaggregated
schedule of all elected members by gender, age and disability status.
We shall continue to monitor
the integration and application of the principles of equality and
inclusion throughout the
remaining part of the electioneering process up to its logical
conclusion,” read her statement. The High Court in March ruled that Parliament and the Attorney
General to take steps to ensure that the required two-third
legislation is enacted within a period of 60 days and to report the
progress to the Chief Justice. If Parliament
failed to enact the said legislation, the court ruled, anyone was at liberty to petition the Chief Justice to advise the President
to dissolve Parliament.