Cab drivers have disputed free rides and discounts offered to customers during the general election next week, with a number of drivers opting to stay away from work during the electioneering period. “I do not benefit much from free rides, so I don’t see the need to report for duty on that day,” James Mwangi, a cab driver with one of the taxi hailing firms said. A number of drivers also pointed out insecurity as another reason they are opting to keep their cars away next week. This comes amidst price wars between Estonian firm Taxify, Uber, Little Cabs and Maramoja that have been slashing prices and giving offers in scramble for customers. Riding on the election climate, Uber which has occasionally faced regulatory setbacks and protests from employees and drivers announced free rides to persons with disabilities to and from their polling stations in Nairobi, Thika and Mombasa. The firm said it will also give riders a Sh200 discount on their rides to and from polling stations. Another taxi firm, Maramoja, said it will be offering very low prices to users. “Maramoja will be running a promotion code where all riders will be at Sh4.99 per kilometer, while all the elderly and disabled persons will get a free ride to and from their voting stations,” the firm acting CEO Ronald Muhando said. Their offer is way below Uber’s Sh42 per kilometre and Little’s Sh30 per kilometre. Last month, Taxify reduced its prices, setting a minimum fare of Sh240 compared to Uber’s and Little’s minimum fare of Sh300. Taxify’s base fare is Sh75 per kilometre compared to Uber’s Sh100 and Little’s Sh100. Maramoja, which has no base fare also offers on demand luxury cab services on its platform. The battle seems to be far from ending following an undisclosed amount of investment by Chinese firm Didi Chuxing in Taxify that seeks to edge Uber out of the African and European market. The investor, Didi Chuxing is the same one that bought Uber china in August last year chasing Uber out of China, and invested $100 million ( Sh10.36 billion) in Lifty, a US-based firm, giving Uber US stiff competition. Responding to a question whether this investment is a cause for worry, Uber’s’ East Africa general manager Loic Amado said the market is big and they welcome competition. As of March this year, Taxify has operated in 18 countries and 25 cities in Europe, Western Asia, Africa and Mexico compared to Uber’s presence in slightly over 600 cities globally.  