President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to maintain the peace and co-exist together as citizens of one nation for faster development and improved quality of life.During a meet-the-people visit to Kenyatta Market, Nairobi, he said wananchi should not fight one another over politics.&ldquo;Leave us to sort out our issues as leaders. Politics should not make you fight. When this market burns down it will not affect one community but all of you,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&ldquo;I have seen all Kenyans do business here. In this market there are Kambas, Merus, Luos, Kikuyus and all Kenyan communities. Please continue living together peacefully. Be your brother&rsquo;s keeper.&rdquo;Nairobi Governor-elect Mike Sonko pledged to deliver fast and improved services to residents. He said once he is sworn in he will reduce licence fees for small-scale traders.He urged the residents of Kibra to leave politicking to politicians.&ldquo;You should continue with your daily activities as residents of Kibra and traders here at Kenyatta market just as you have been doing before and after the general election,&rdquo; Sonko said.He urged Nairobi residents to ignore inciters and said the government will firmly and decisively deal with any individual out to destroy others&rsquo; property.&ldquo;Leave us as leaders to tackle our political battles but don&rsquo;t allow any person to incite you to violence. We have seen those who allowed themselves to be incited losing lives while those who instigated them continued enjoying themselves,&rdquo; Sonko said.Uhuru urged Kenyans to carry on with their normal lives as the Supreme Court takes up the petition filed by NASA challenging the presidential election results.&ldquo;The judgment will be made and whatever the outcome you should continue [to coexist] peacefully. It doesn&rsquo;t matter the outcome, Kenya will still be here. Love one another and live together as brothers,&rdquo; he said.The President urged Sonko to transform Nairobi&rsquo;s image and improve services.&ldquo;I thank you for voting for my friend Sonko...He will sink a borehole here to ensure constant water [supply] to the traders,&rdquo; Uhuru said.