NASA has said it will not be party to the declaration of presidential results on Friday night as their concerns have not been addressed. The opposition coalition has strongly disputed the outcome of the presidential results, saying they do not represent the true verdict of Kenyans. The results put President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of his rival Raila Odinga with 8,194,411 against 6,788,734 respectively. NASA chief agent Musalia Mudavadi said IEBC told them their concerns will be addressed after the declaration is made. “Basically (the meeting with IEBC) was a PR exercise,” Mudavadi told the press at the National Tallying Centre. He spoke after the NASA coalition walked out of the meeting with IEBC commissioners where the commission made its stand to announce the winner. More on this: NASA sets term for conceding, asks for access to IEBC servers “This commission has shown that it is an arm of the executive. It looks like the president (and) the deputy president knew all along what the commission was going to do,” coalition agent James Orengo said. His remarks were in relation to preparations at the KICC where the President and DP William Ruto are waiting to make a public address soon after IEBC announces the winner. “When the deputy president left here (Bomas) to go to the KICC, the stage had been made,” Orengo added. He accused international observers of pressuring and encouraging the IEBC to announcing the winner regardless of NASA's concerns about the accuracy of the election results. Orengo said the African Union, the European Union and the Commonwealth should adopt the vetting the observer missions to ensure they have no relationships with the governments of the day. “The AU should have vetted the members of those observer missions because clearly the delegations rushed to judgement and gave this commission to go on with making this announcement and telling us we can do what we want suggesting that we should go to court." Orengo said ex-Ghana president John Mahama should have been vetted alongside his South African counterpart Thabo Mbeki and ex-US Secretary of State John Kerry. "These characters look like they are from heaven but they also have a past,” Orengo said. Read: Kenya election was fair, no sign of manipulation - EAC, EU observers He said “going to court is not an alternative, we have been there before”. The Senator said the verdict now lies with the Kenyan people who he believes will refuse to accept the results. “Every time an election has been stolen, the Kenyan people have stood up to make sure changes are made to make Kenya a better place. No force on earth can go against a people united. "Therefore nobody should think this is the end of the matter and nobody should make us feel guilty that we have got constitutional alternatives in interrogating the decision that has been made by this commission that is a great tragedy,” Orengo said.  