A fresh battle between members of the 12th Parliament and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission is looming over their slashed salaries and allowances. In what appears to be a pointer to yet another standoff between the legislative arm and the SRC, a section of MPs-elect have warned that they will not accept salaries lower than those of their predecessors. MPs will now earn Sh621,000 from Sh710,000 per month. Incoming Speakers of Parliament will earn Sh1.155 million, down from Sh1.32 million. Deputy Speakers will take home Sh924,000, not Sh1.056m. Outgoing commissioner at the Parliamentary Service Commission Gladys Wanga yesterday said the move was meant to demean legislators and reduce them to beggars. Addressing the media at Parliament Building, Wanga said the Sarah Serem-led commission has humiliated them and wants to make them to start desperately beg for handouts to perform their duties. “There is a mission to demean the legislative arm of government. This is a mission to reduce MPs to beggars and perhaps take them back to the 1990s, when they used to beg for handouts to be able to perform their duties at the constituencies,” the Homa Bay woman representative-elect said. She trashed the gazette notice and said the SRC failed to evaluate MPs’ work accordingly before effecting the pay-cut in their income. “This will not happen on our watch. As the PSC, we will not allow members to be reduced to beggars. This is a major reduction for MPs because they went to seek these elective positions knowing what the salaries and allowances were,” Wanga said. Kiambu woman representative-elect Gathoni wa Muchomba said they should be remunerated fairly to effectively ensure development at the grassroots. During an interview with NTV, Gathoni said they would be demoralised from carrying out their duties “if their environment is not conducive”. “Does it mean when MPs tighten their belts we will close the gap? Where am I supposed to get those resources if my salary is not adequate to share? I am really against that move because it demoralises people from doing what they are supposed to do,” she said. President Uhuru Kenyatta, after the gazettment, publicly welcomed the move, saying it would tame the ballooning public wage bill.