Presidential candidates are today holding their final rallies before Tuesday's narrowly contested election. The Jubilee team led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru county where they will push for the last time their re-election bid. NASA, the main opposition coalition is at Uhuru Park. Both the Jubilee and NASA teams have been doing vigorous campaigns in all the counties. Today is the last day for all candidates in the country to campaign as the law bans campaigns in the final 48 hours before voting begins at 6 am on Tuesday in 40,883 polling stations. Also read; Uhuru, Raila big push for final 3 days of campaign About 19.6 million Kenyans are eligible to vote, choosing leaders from President to MCA and woman representative in all elective seats. Nakuru is considered to be one of President Uhuru's strongholds. “Nakuru is special to us. It is the bedrock of Jubilee and it is where we started our journey to unite Kenyans,” the Deputy President Ruto has said in the past. Thousands of supporters are expected to attend as it will be the final lap for the campaign with Jubilee dubbing their as #45MillionStrong perceived to reflect on the number of Kenyans. The Nasa alliance, on the other hand, is hoping to woo voters and scoop up the crucial undecided votes during their final push at Uhuru Park Grounds. Dubbed “10-million-strong”, Nasa team led by Opposition leader Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, the group hopes to oust Uhuru. Read: Vote and go home, but return at 5 pm, Raila urges supporters Polls open at 6am Tuesday under tight security countrywide. Opinion polls indicate a neck-and-neck contest and both sides are going all-out to secure a decisive first-round win and avoid a Supreme Court challenge to the results. Lots of money is splashed around to persuade everyone to vote. Both Uhuru and Raila have been scouring villages, wooing minority communities and special interest groups previously ignored. Raila has reached out to single women, promising them a special fund. The President has gazetted the Makonde and Asians from India as Kenya’s 43rd and 44th tribes, respectively.