Football Kenya Federation (FKF) have called off this weekend’s National Super League clashes, Division One action, womens’ league and division one matches, citing political instability in the country. FKF have taken the decision to defer action after a consultative meeting between the National Leagues and Competitions Committee and the Referees Appointment Committee. Political unpredictable has seen football activities in the country crumble in the last one week with SportPesa Premier League matches postponed and the same fate has struck the national leagues. Addressing the amends, FKF’s chief executive officer, Robert Muthomi said: “It’s unfortunate that the political situation witnessed currently has made it impossible for most clubs to train and/or for officials to travel. In light of the aforementioned and as a precaution, we have decided to postpone this weekend’s matches to a date that will be communicated in due course.” In the National Super League, eight matches were set to be played at different avenues across the country as the league entered its round of 21. Struggling pair of St Joseph’s and Mosca FC were set to open action this weekend, reviving their poor run which has seen them sit at the bottom two slots on the standings. Administration Police would have squared it out with league hopefuls Ushuru FC before paving way for their counterparts Kenya Police who were pitted against Nakuru All Stars. The 12th placed Isibania were supposed to welcome Bidco United who are ranked 17th while former top flight sides Agro-chemicals and Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) would have locked horns at Muhoroni. League toppers Vihiga United were set to play second-placed Nairobi Stima in what would have been the clash of the weekend. GFE 105 were scheduled to host Talanta in Eldoret with Modern Coast Rangers hosting Palos in Mombasa. FKF have further confirmed the GOtv quarter finals matches will go on as planned with all four matches set to be played on Saturday and Sunday at Nyayo Stadium.