The Kisumu county security committee cancelled a peaceful march organised by residents in honour of the victims of recent police brutality. The business community, civil society, religious groups and other residents were to have held the procession yesterday. They had received permission, but it was later cancelled, barring them from continuing with the demonstration. It was to begin in the Jomo Kenyatta Grounds and end at the Central Business District. The organisers then were to present a petition to the county commander at the Central Police station. Sita Rusha Mawe Tena Peace Campaign team leader Ogutu Akach said police cited high tension as the reason for the cancellation. He said police also cited an Supreme Court case challenging the official presidential results. On Monday, county commissioner Mohamed Maalim was heckled during the swearing in ceremony of new Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o. Maalim had to cut short the speech he was delivering on behalf of Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. Akach said they tried to urge the police to stop brutality. “But our activity was not related to any court matter because this was just a peacefully process to correct misinformation that nothing happened, yet people were killed,” he told the Star on the phone. Akach said they have insisted the security team espond to them in a letter stating the reasons “as we restrategise on the way forward”. He said they will meet to deliberate on the decision and then present a petition to the officers. County leaders have been cautioned against announcing unconfirmed reports on victims of the post-election protests. The county security team said unconfirmed proclamations create unnecessary tension. Maalim on Monday expressed concern over contradicting statements playing out in public. He said only two deaths were reported — one at Maseno and that of six-month-old Samantha Pendo — which police are investigating. Pendo died of injuries her parents said were inflicted by riot police. Her death has become a symbol of police brutality and excessive use of force — police were going door-to-door in search of protesters. Maalim was responding to claims by Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o that seven people were shot dead by police and more than 170 people hurt during the protests in Nyalenda, Kondele, Nyamasaria, Obunga and Migosi estates in Kisumu town. He said the figures released by the governor were untrue. Maalim said only five people were injured during the protests. He said two people were lynched by goons.