Thousands of young people recruited into the Jubilee administration’s milestone National Youth Service seem not to understand the core purpose of the programme in uplifting their lives, apart from contributing to nation building. Last week’s deployment of NYS recruits all over the country to assist other security officers in manning the election gave the public an opportunity to conjure a clearer picture of the programme’s benefits to the dependent group. However, voters and the public on August 8 in parts of Nairobi were shocked with the behaviour of the recruits wearing jungle-green NYS uniforms and wondered whether the responsible Youth, Gender and Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki (pictured)helped them to grow upright. It is said the carefree recruits were seen smoking the outlawed marijuana (bhang) in the full glare of the public, a few metres from polling stations. === Did Maendeleo Chap Chap governor aspirant for Embu Lenny Kivuti bow to pressure from ‘above’ to withdraw a case challenging the reelection of his JP rival Governor Martin Wambora? Word has it that Kivuti bowed to pressure to withdraw the then ongoing case in court at the last minute, following the orders of an agitated top Jubilee leader. Kivuti claimed he won the tight race and was determined for the court to block the swearing-in of Wambora, until the verdict of his case alleging results were altered in favour of the incumbent is made. However, it is said his move was a thorn in the flesh within the Jubilee inner circles, unhappy with the risk of losing one of its 26 hard- fought-for governor positions. Kivuti was told to withdraw the case with the promise of being rewarded with a government position. === It was rumoured yesterday that a section of top senior IEBC officials were mulling over plans to attend the burial of the late IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando. Our mole said the officials were whispering amongst themselves about their safety and how they would be received in Siaya county due to their “rushed announcement of the Presidential results, despite protests from the country’s opposition”. A little bird told us that two of them had already shelved their plans to attend the burial. === A public university in Nyanza is in the process of receiving a Sh60 million bank overdraft from a leading bank. On Thursday evening, two top finance officers from the institution were overheard whispering among themselves that the overdraft was unnecessary and meant to line the pockets of the vice chancellor. A senior administrator was told to doctor recent council minutes to show a nod to borrow the cash.