I watched as journalists posed questions to acting Interior CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i regarding potential effects of post-election tension on the economy.While I agree with him that there has not been significant damage on property, economic losses have been incurred, occasioned by speculation of violence hence close of business operations. Micro-enterprises are the biggest losers. According to existing estimates, it is not unusual for the informal sector to account for over half of GDP and employment in low-income countries. Despite the debasing of GDP that saw Kenya attain lower middle-income status, the informal sector is still a significant pillar of its economy. It is characterised by activities of petty traders operating in the streets of most urban centres. Most are involved in the sale of second-hand items like clothes, some in the business of shoe shining, street vendors, carpentry, vegetable selling, repair and construction work.The Kenyan informal sector is quite large, estimated at 34.3 per cent and accounting for 77 per cent of employment statistics. Over 60 per cent of those working in the informal sector are youths, aged between 18-35 years, 50 per cent being women (Ouma et al 2009 ). Arguably, increased population in urban centres is a contributing factor to the thriving of this segment of the economy. The opposite is true. Every five years, micro-enterprises activities across the country are disrupted by polls.Following heightened political tension in the lead-up to the polls, urban dwellers move from cities to their rural homes, resulting in reduced economic activities in the cities and urban centres, with the stay determined by the political climate after polls.Empirical evidence, in the exclusion of 2007-08 PEV, shows it takes about two weeks for microenterprise activities to go back to normalcy.Microenterprise transactions are small in nature, with slim profit margins. Venture sustainability demands that several small transactions are completed per day to provide sufficient income for basic household consumption, repayment of mobile money loans and plough back to the enterprise, among other obligations. Notably, more than 50 per cent of daily revenue is allocated to daily household consumption, explaining slow growth of microenterprises and the perennial cycle of poverty.In the words of Harold Wilson, a week is a long time in politics. This extends to microenterprises. The livelihoods of microenterprise owners are entirely pegged on the venture. There is a correlation between ability to afford basic household needs and the number and size of daily business transactions. Little or no transactions occasioned by low business seasons such as the electioneering period might have detrimental effects not only on microenterprises but also low-income households. Meager revenues accumulated over a period of time are expended on non-productive consumption weeks before and after the election.While the politics-economy dichotomy is nonexistent, political actions can always be trained in favour of constant economic growth.The do-or-die approach demonstrated in highly heated altercations between the NASA and Jubilee leaders build up excitement and tension in equal measure in regions where they command popular support, with cosmopolitans highly affected.Following the violence that erupted after the 2007 polls, the framers of the 2010 Constitution envisaged a replay of the same and created institutions and robust legal frameworks to seal the loopholes.The National Cohesion and Integration Commission must be proactive in execution of its mandate and work in collaboration with the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions to conclude hate speech cases. The actual or perceived integrity of elections can be linked to the independence and preparedness of the IEBC. Although the electoral commission has been faced with unending legal suits, they should not have been a deterrent to strategic planning. Security organs must rise above the politics of the day and do what they do best &mdash; law enforcement.Observance of the above will without doubt build citizen confidence, and put the country on a continuous growth trajectory. Everybody wins.The writer is postgraduate student, Public Policy