Ethiopia on Friday lifted a
state of emergency imposed last October following months of
protests that killed hundreds of people. More than 29,000 people were arrested during the period
and nearly 8,000 of them are on trial for taking part in the
violence, Defence Minister Siraj Fegessa said. The unrest was provoked by a development scheme for the
capital Addis Ababa and turned into broader anti-government
demonstrations over politics and human rights abuses. It
included attacks on businesses, many of them foreign-owned,
including farms growing flowers for export. "The country's stability is in far better shape. In some
areas where security issues remain, local security forces have
the capacity to restore order," Fegessa said in a report read in
parliament. Siraj said nearly 29,000 people were arrested in the
provinces of Oromiya, Amhara and SNNP, as well as Addis Ababa
during the period. "7,737 of them are currently on trial over charges of taking
part in violent and terrorist acts during the unrest," he said. Measures initially imposed under the declaration included
granting powers to security services to stop and search suspects
and to search homes without court authorization. Another rule barred diplomats from travelling beyond a 40 km
(25 miles) radius of the capital without permission. There was
also a dusk-to-dawn curfew on access to economic installations,
some infrastructure and factories for unauthorized people. Those restrictions were eased in March but Addis Ababa
maintained a ban that stopped citizens from having any contact
with opposition groups branded as terrorist movements. Ethiopia has designated five groups, including two armed
secessionist groups, as terrorist organizations. Another directive barring the "preparation, distribution and
exhibition of material that could incite chaos" was also
retained in March. The violence in Oromiya, the largest and most populous
region which surrounds Addis Ababa, and to a lesser extent in
the Amhara province north of Addis Ababa, put a shadow over a
nation where a state-led industrial drive has created one of
Africa's fastest growing economies. The government also often faces international criticism and
opposition to its authoritarian approach to development. In April, a government-sanctioned investigation said 669
people had been killed in the violence. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid
Ra'ad Al Hussein has called on Ethiopia to allow his agency to
investigate abuse claims.