Human Rights Watch wants police conduct in the aftermath of the announcement of presidential election results investigated. The international rights organisation said it had documented serious human rights violations. They include unlawful killings and beatings by police during protests and house-to-house operations in Western Kenya. The August 8 presidential election was marred by killings and abuse HRW said left at least 12 dead and over 100 badly injured in the region. This does not include the six decomposing bodies retrieved by fishermen from Lake Victoria in body bags and the statistics of those still missing after the operation. On August 12, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights reported that police had killed at least 24 people nationwide, including one in Kisumu and 17 in Nairobi. The government downplayed the figure. Body count higher However, HRW said the number is most likely higher, as Kenya’s media were slow in reporting on the violence and families have been afraid to speak out. “The brutal crackdown on protesters and residents in the Western counties, part of a pattern of violence and repression in opposition strongholds, undermined the national election,” Otsieno Namwaya, Africa researcher at Human Rights Watch, said. “People have a right to protest peacefully, and Kenyan authorities should urgently put a stop to police abuse and hold those responsible to account.” He said HRW conducted research in Western Kenya during and after the election. Forty-three people were interviewed, including victims of police beatings and shootings in Kisumu and Siaya counties. HRW examined bodies in mortuaries in Kisumu and Siaya counties, and visited victims at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (Russia Hospital) in Kisumu. History of violent crackdown Following the announcement of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory at the polls, opposition supporters in Nairobi, Coast, and the Western counties of Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, and Homa Bay protested with chants of “Uhuru must go”. Police responded in many areas with excessive force, shooting and beating protesters in Nairobi and Western, or carrying out abusive house-to-house operations, the organisation said. Kenyan police have a long history of using excessive force against protesters, especially in Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, and Homa Bay, where Odinga has had solid support for more than 20 years, HRW said. Yet, accountability for police abuses has been sorely missing. HRW called for the government to publicly acknowledge and condemn any and all recent unlawful and unnecessary police killings and shootings.