During the 2007 election violence and its aftermath, the police service and its activities came into sharp focus. There was abundant evidence that the police were not just doing their work of maintaining law and order, but had become partisan agents of President Kibaki's PNU government.Police treated innocent victims who had nothing whatsoever to do with the disputed election brutally. The commission of inquiry into the post-election violence implicated the police in the killings. The commission and UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings Philip Alston recommended serious reforms for the service. Ten years down the road, Kenyans are asking whether anything has really changed.Justice (Rd) Philip Ransley, who headed the National Taskforce on Police Reforms, came up with far-reaching suggestions and recommendations that the government has halfheartedly tried to implement.The reason is because the government still treats the police as an appendage of the Executive &ndash; an instrument whose purpose is to keep those in power there at whatever cost. The lack of political will was demonstrated by the numerous laws the Jubilee administration sponsored in Parliament to gain total control of the security sector and apparatus.The vetting of the police officers was hailed as a great breakthrough. But it was a breakthrough that never was. The task, taken up with so much fanfare and gusto, was basically a mirage. The officers who were to be vetted out are still in the service thanks to political patronage and corrupt networks.Those vetted out remain a danger to the public since no proper mechanisms were put in place to monitor their movements and activities. A number were in the prime of their careers and can easily be manipulated by criminal elements. With no source of livelihood to take care of their families, the proceeds of crime can be very tempting.According to our Constitution, the police are supposed to be professional, accountable, and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Inspector General is supposed to independent and must never take directions from anybody.The events of the past one week have, however, clearly demonstrated that the service is far from achieving the standards set by the Constitution. They appeared to be under instruction from the current government to suppress dissent using brute force and strong-arm tactics.The protests that followed the announcement of the presidential election results were met with sheer brute force. The police fired live bullets, entered people&rsquo;s homes and beat them with gun butts and blunt objects.The ferocity with which the police dealt with the residents of Kisumu was not about maintaining law and order. It was about driving a particular message to the people. That message was that the police were prepared to shoot and maim. They were clearly not acting independently, but under the direction of powerful political honchos.Innocent children, men and women were injured, not on streets but in their houses after police forcibly gained entry by breaking down doors.This reminds one of the Moi era, where police were used by political honchos, not just to suppress the opposition but to brutalise innocent wananchi who sometimes were fighting for a just cause. This state of affairs cannot be allowed to go on. The police service must investigate the activities of its officers and those found culpable brought to book to answer for unacceptable criminal and illegal actions.The UN International Police Task Force was clear that in a democratic society the police must serve to protect, rather impede freedoms. The very purpose of the police is to provide safety and an orderly environment in which freedoms must be exercised.Breaking into homes and shooting to kill innocent civilians is not one of the ways of helping ordinary citizens enjoy their freedoms. They must be held accountable for their actions.Finally, it is clear that despite the country's efforts to set up institutions to hold the police to account, they are still under undue interference by powerful individuals and their performance has not changed. Police still carry out extrajudicial killings, fail to respond professionally, are engaged in extortion, corruption and inelegantly handle demonstrators.The brutal killings of lawyer Willy Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri are some examples of their unchanged mindset.Mwamu is the former President Of East Africa Law Society and an Advocate of the High Court Of Kenya.