The Mt Kenya region Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya has appealed to NASA leader Raila Odinga to concede defeat. The clerics said the election was free, fair and credible. They said Raila should avert chaos by accepting the results. Issuing plea at Majengo Mosque in Thika on Tuesday were regional coordinator Shabaan Bakari, Kiambu CIPK chairman Shuhaib Mohammed, Murang’a’s Awadh Ali and his Nyeri counterpart Jamil Hamza. The clerics said that both local and international observers have confirmed the polls were credible, so Raila should concede. “We appeal to Raila Odinga to take the olive branch extended to him by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his acceptance speech upon being declared winner by the IEBC. We also call upon NASA supporters to refrain from any acts of violence for it has never borne any positive results,” the statement reads. Bakari said Raila could dent his legacy if he does not concede. He said the  incidents of chaos in parts of the county, especially in NASA strongholds, are worrisome. “We do recognise the immense contribution made by Honourable Raila towards shaping the high standards of democracy that Kenyans are enjoying today. But the more than six million voters who voted for him should not be used as a tool of making unconstitutional moves. The end of an era is the beginning of another,” Bakari said. Ali said NASA should wait for the Supreme Court to rule on the election and not tell Kenyans to protest. “Kenyans are tired of demonstrations and protests. If their supporters must demonstrate, they should do so peacefully and not infringe on the rights of other Kenyans through disruption of their peace or destruction of their property,” he said. They clerics called on Kenyans to maintain peace and not let the country slip back into the chaos witnessed after the 2007 General Election. “We cannot destroy what we have built over the years,” Ali said. The clerics told Raila to join hands with other Kenyans to build the nation. They also urged the police to exercise restraint when dealing with protesters. The group affirmed its support for Uhuru.