Oscar-winning actress, Lupita Nyongo has stared in Jay Z's new song “MaNyfaCedGod” featuring James Blake. This was both exciting and surprising for Kenyans and other fans from all over the world. Her performance has been getting positive vibes on social media platforms since, the trailer was released a while back. Besides, what better way for Lupita to be welcomed into the hip hop community than through rap tracks by Jay Z? On rare occasions , these days, do women take the center in Jay's videos apart from his wife and daughter however, this is the second track that he is featuring Lupita. The song comes from a collection of bonus tracks released after the rapper’s latest album,4:44. The first, was when he dropped a shout out in his rap to Lupita in the track "We Made It" by New Orleans MC Jay Electronica featuring him. He complemented her beauty in his reference that said “I'm on my Lupita Nyong'o, Stuntin' on stage after 12 Years A Slave(the film that made her a star),This Ace of Spades look like an Oscar,Black tux, look like a mobster.” In the recent video, the Lupita's melanin rich skin shimmers as she artistically maneuvers in an interpretive dance. We see her reminiscing about her past and reliving those emotional moments through the moves.The trip to the memory lane causes her to cry towards he end off the video. The choreography depicts the powerful reflection of the songs lyrics themselves, especially with Lupita’s message: “Our external reality is an opportunity to heal our internal upset” and “Be grateful for whatever comes. Each has been sent from a guide from beyond.” She quotes Rumi the worlds most popular Persian poet in her message. Watch the video below: ; Meanwhile, Lupita continues to engage in a lot of projects and yet again her spontaneity gets us off guard all the time. She has featured in a broadway play dubbed “Eclipsed” alongside Mitchell Williams and other strong female actors. Lupita Nyong’o plays a 15-year-old who becomes the latest of a Liberian leader’s war brides. We are all waiting to see her star shine even further in the yet to be released superhero flick, “Black Panther”.