Is former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae (pictured) eyeing the Senate Speaker position? The scion of Kisii political maestro Simon Nyachae is said to have expressed his interest in the position, amid talk that ‘tyrannical’ Jubilee is keen on replacing current speaker Ekwee Ethuro. There is a general feeling among Jubilee honchos that Gusii region, the critical vote bloc that propelled President Uhuru Kenyatta to another term in office, deserves an impressive political reward. === After he lost his seat to his bitter rival, an influential politician from Rift Valley, who’s been in Parliament for three uninterrupted terms lodged at a hotel where he “drowned” his sorrows with bottles of his favourite drink, Tusker. The former provincial administrator spent three days and three nights at the hotel with a curvaceous “Mpango wa Kando” perhaps to console himself after an embarrassing defeat. What a better way to massage personal desires than to quench thirst for the heart? The MP is an expert in this and knew exactly what he wanted. === A former ODM rebel who had chided opposition leader Raila Odinga that he would not win the just-concluded General Election is at peace with himself. The ousted MP, who also lost in the polls, was overhead laughing uncontrollably at a popular club in Kisumu that he doesn’t regret his loss as much as Raila also lost. “God knows how to balance everything in politics, he thought I would lose,” the former MP laughed off. His colleagues, who included another three former MPs, told all those who cared to listen that should Raila fail to run in 2022, then he has a big chance of making a comeback in his constituency. === Just what is happening with opposition leaders Moses Wetang’ula and Isaac Rutto? Have they abandoned the change movement cause? Well. The two key pillars in NASA have kept their supporters guessing as to whether they are truly committed to the opposition course after they missed in a crucial decision-making meeting yesterday. Rutto, the outgoing Bomet governor, and Wetang’ula, who was reelected as Bungoma senator, were conspicuously absent when NASA announced Supreme Court plans yesterday. “They have sent apologies because they are out of town,’ said Musalia Mudavadi, after sensing the curiosity among journalists. === Did Jubilee flop in its vicious attempts to win the Bungoma governor seat in last week’s election? While there is talk that the efforts hit a snag, details pointed to a well-coordinated effort to capture the position. But Ford Kenya’s Wycliffe Wangamati was unnerving – and he hit Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka with an embarrassing defeat.