Kenya risks being banned by the International Olympic Committee after the Ministry of Sports declined to have the matter petitioned by Kenya Taekwondo Association (KTA) withdrawn from court. KTA and National Olympic Committee among other parties were in court yesterday to withdraw the matter after drafting a consent which they wanted the court to adopt in order to have the matter settled out of court. However, in a new twist of events, Ministry of Sports and Sports Registrar through their representatives told the court that they were not in agreement of the consent that was drawn by the parties and were opposed to the matter being withdrawn. Justice Chacha Mwita was displeased by the events that happened in court and showed his displeasure with parties. “I am very disappointed because I scheduled this matter in order to record a consent and otherwise. I could be doing other things,” Mwita said. On Monday, Mwita had directed the parties to appear in court on Wednesday and withdraw the case. In May this year, the High Court stopped the Nock elections after KTA sought an injunction of the same. The elections were slated for May 6 but KTA secured a court injunction after they were barred from participating in the polls by the elections board. KTA went to court seeking intervention after their members were banned from taking part in the elections due to a leadership row at the organization. The association said the decision to bar its members from participating in the Noc-k election is discriminatory and against their legitimate expectations. Speaking to Journalists after the hearing, KTA and Nock lawyers Kimutai Bosek and Edward Rombo accused the Ministry of interfering with the process. Bosek said that KTA sought to have the matter withdrawn because the country risks being banned from future games by the IOC if they don’t put their house in order. He further noted his frustrations with the way the ministry was interfering in a matter yet they had agreed to pull the petition out of court for the sake of the country. Rombo said that as Nock, they are very disappointed with the ministry for objecting to their consent after the parties burnt midnight oil in a bid to ensure that the matter is settled. “If we are barred from participating in the Olympics and the Commonwealth Games scheduled for next year then the Ministry and the Registrar in particular should take the blame,” added Rombo. He said as parties to the case, they had agreed to all terms and conditions that were laid out by the IOC in order to settle the matter and have the elections as soon as possible. The case was adjourned to October 17.   