Is secession the Opposition’s secret card if the Presidential petition filed in the Supreme Court fails? Well, the idea of national self-determination appears to gaining momentum in Opposition circles. Economist David Ndii and other technocrats in NASA posted on his Twitter handle what appeared as a snippet of the petition. It cites exploitation by some dominant communities and the culture of rigged elections as the reason for secession. Well, Ndii appears keen on this subject. He has previously dubbed Kenya a cruel marriage and suggested that national divorce is the only option. He has many backers, though. Proponents of this push say there will be the People’s Republic of Kenya and Central Kenya. Perhaps tough times are ahead for “Project Kenya”. === Talk of power and opulence. A governor from one of the Northeastern counties has rented a presidential suite at one of Nairobi’s highest-end hotels. According to our mole in the hotel, which is situated on the outskirts of city, the governor has his wife and children living in the hotel on a full time basis, but, for him, he flies into the city every Thursday to join his family. The question is, isn’t it cheaper to rent a Presidential suite for a year or just buy a modest house? === Who could be this businessman who has left his car parked for weeks now near the Nairobi City Market? The car, that has by now been clamped by City Hall askaris, has been there for almost one-and-a-half weeks no, and has gathered dust and become of concern to the businesspeople around the area who are wondering where the owner could have gone to. Word has it that City Hall askaris are now contemplating towing the saloon car to the Central Police Station. === Two senior politicians from Ukambani are viciously fighting for a female politician from the region. One of them, who is very wealthy, is said to have been dating the lady politician only to discover recently that his friend had dislodged him – promising the lady to offer her a better future and chances. According to a little bird that has whispered to Corridors, the man who was dislodged has not taken the situation lightly. On Friday last week, he warned his competitor at a hotel along Mombasa Road that he will up his game and “We will see who will have the last laugh”. === Traffic police officers in Nairobi seem not to have learned any lesson from several arrests of corrupt cops made by anti-corruption sleuths. Reason? On feeder roads such as along Waiyaki Way, PSV bribes change hands long before breakfast.