The toxic ethnic rivalry that characterises presidential elections in Kenya needs taming before we push the self-destruct button. The calls for peace and tolerance must be accompanied by practical political solutions. While the Constitution fixed most of our desires as the people, it has failed to cure the ethnic character of our national politics, especially the presidential election. By setting the 50 per cent votes plus one rule, the 2010 Constitution only dealt with numbers rather than the material issues. In comparing different systems of governments in Africa and other developing countries, political science scholars have concluded that the presidential system is more likely to fail than a parliamentary one. Bruce Ackerman opines that of the 30 countries to have experimented with the American presidential system “all of them, without exception, have succumbed to the nightmare [of breakdown] one time or another, often repeatedly’. The single biggest threat to the unity and economic progress of this country remains the presidential system. I say this for several reasons. First, the presidential system fails to capture the diversity of a multi-nation state. Because it is a winner-takes-it-all system, it has reduced our politics to a zero-sum duel. Second, the presidential system creates a very high incentive for rigging elections, unlike in the parliamentary system. Third, due to the threat of violence every election year, our economy can never attain the magical 10 per cent growth because it drastically slows down every election cycle. Fourth, political wounds don’t heal because every five years they are opened. Although the desire for Kenyans for a parliamentary system was thwarted by the political class in 2010, the referendum clause allows Kenyans to bring it back. A parliamentary system is not perfect but it is uniquely suited to our context. Voters directly fill all the elective positions but the prime minister will come from the party of the majority. This will reduce the fear of big tribes’ domination as the position can be negotiated within the party. Replacing the prime minister will equally be easy. This can help build strong political parties and also ethnic minorities can negotiate their accommodation in big parties. The strengths of the parliamentary system include the possibility of post-election negotiations, while allowing for a strong opposition. A parliamentary system allows the winning party to have a structured way of negotiating with smaller parties in forming a more inclusive government. Currently, the president can only bring individuals to his government. Such individuals who join government are considered to be traitors by their parties and even their communities. While the parliamentary system may not completely eradicate ethnicity, it will encourage the institutionalisation of political parties above the ethnic calculus we currently practice. It will also encourage voters to scrutinise party policies rather than personalities. The economic anxiety that accompanies the election cycle can be greatly reduced by a parliamentary system. Since voters will only elect local leaders, political competitions will be directed towards grassroots positions rather than national offices. This means businesses, schools, hotels and industry don’t have to scale down or completely shut down because of elections. Voters don’t have to travel upcountry to vote because of fear of violence in urban areas. Kenyans of goodwill who have witnessed the last three general elections will agree that the presidency is no longer a unifying office the way it was conceived in the Constitution. 