Uhuru and Raila have made more inroads in Western Kenya during the campaign season than any other region. Are Luhyas the most undecided, or are they just democratic, to warrant this attention? Will they deliver the winning vote for Uhuru or Raila? Luhyas have since the introduction of multiparty politics distributed their votes to the main candidates. That was the case for Moi on the one hand and Jaramogi and Matiba in 1992 on the other hand. In 1997 the vote basket was equally shared between Moi and Wamalwa Kijana. Kibaki was overwhelmingly voted for by Western in his first term: Wamalwa and Raila ensured that win. Raila is the only leader outside the tribe who commands a fanatical following and loyalty in Western. He has often stated that he is a Luhya and a descendant of Wanga King Nabongo. He is the Prince. In any Presidential race, whoever runs against Raila must dislodge his traditional hold on the Luhya vote or capture a substantial portion of it to win. Kibaki lost the region’s vote in his second term. Mudavadi did not make any impact in 2013, as a result of which Luhya votes were shared between Uhuru and Raila, the majority going to Raila. Jubilee tawe! No more Jubilee! That is the reality that Uhuru and the few leaders in Western who have rallied behind him must reckon with. The Jubilee administration has been accused of sidelining Luhyas in appointments and development in general. Appointments have been limited to Bukusus. Water CS Wamalwa and Environment CS Wakhungu are the only Western picks in the Cabinet. They are Bukusus from Bungoma. So, too, are former and current EACC chairmen Kinisu and Wabukhala as well as IEBC chair and CEO Chebukati and Chiloba. Uhuru’s administration has done little to revive Pan Paper and Mumias Sugar. Unemployment and crime have gone up. Farmers have abandoned sugar farming. Injection of funds to help the industries’ revival has come too late too little. It has been dismissed as campaign goodies. No launched projects can be relied upon to drum up support for Uhuru’s reelection – not even Sigiri Bridge. CS Wamalwa, Bungoma Governor Lusaka and renegade ODM member Waluke are Jubilee’s point men in Western. Namwamba and the little-known Washiali are junior lieutenants. None of them could campaign in the area without Uhuru. The President’s votes, if any, will be from Bungoma alone, which is less than 20% of the Western vote. Havi is a lawyer    