Many might have written them off before their GOtv Shield clash with the eleven-time league champions Tusker but the Vihiga United defied all odds to sail to the semis thanks to a 2-0 victory at the Nyayo Stadium yesterday. With pundits predicting an exit and end of an ambition for the National Super League table-toppers, the side coached by Edward Manoah improved from a nervy, shaky start to upset George Nsiibe’s squad with a goal in either half to book a spot in the final four. Tusker staged mighty artillery, which comprised of speedy wingers Danson Kago and Boniface Muchiri with veteran Humprey Mieno supplying ammunition to the flankers whose contribution disappointed both the bench and fans. Their dominance and threats were cut short by the evergreen Charles Okwemba who made no mistake from the spot in the 24 after Mieno handled in the box in an attempt to clear a corner kick. Tusker’s miseries were compounded minutes later with their attacking midfielder Cercidy Okeyo being stretchered off with a hip injury. Jackson Macharia was introduced for Okeyo but his magical combination with Mieno did not trouble Vihiga. Their search for an equalizer bore no fruits in the first half with all attempts receiving an equal reaction. A more determined Vihiga resumed for the final half exposing Tusker’s defence occasionally through Harambee Stars trialist Chris Masinza who tormented them at will. His skills left Eugene Asike beaten in the 51st minute only for the former Sofapaka man to tackle him heavily, a move that earned him a booking. Sensing an embarrassment Nsiibe introduced Victor Ndinya for Kago where the forward began his afternoon in office with a caution on his first touch. Anthony Ndolo paved way for Clifford Alwanga but his inclusion could not deliver the much-sought touch to the strikers. A protest by Manoah in the 74th minute wasn’t spared as he was sent to the stands for over-protesting. Second half substitute Dennis Lugalia capitalized on Tuskers poor marking in the 86th minute to bury the ball into the net with a powerful header, which Duncan Ochieng could not stop. The goal sent the defending champions out of the tournament with a reputation and confidence torn apart by minnows.