With barely less than seven days to the next general polls the Jubilee brigade on Tuesday took their last round of campaigns to Bungoma county asking residents to reelect them back owing to their development truck record in the region. The brigade first landed at Mateka area in Bumula constituency before inspecting the road works being done by Jubilee government that are ongoing at the Musikoma Mungatsi Buyofu before heading for a major rally in Kimilili town. Addressing a rally at Amutala stadium in Kimilili constituency the leaders lead by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto asked Bungoma and western residents not to gamble with their votes this time round. Uhuru said that the Jubilee government has done so much for the region despite the region having voted for the opposition in the last polls. The president asked the voters from the counties nine constituencies and western at large to walk with Jubilee to form the next government and continue with their development agenda of bettering the lives of wananchi. Uhuru also promised to give Nzoia sugar factory 300M for maintenance. He told NASA core principle Wetangula that he will not become a king by abusing him for his shortcomings and advice him to play politics of development. Ruto said that the Jubilee government has done a lot to ensure the roads in Bungoma that were in pathetic situation are in good shape so as to open up the county with neighboring counties to improve business. ‘We have embarked in a process of tarmacking two hundred kilometers of roads in this county and as we speak work is ongoing at Chwele Lwakhakha and Misikhu brigadier roads for our farmers to ferry there farm produce to markets with ease,’ he said. He said that Kenya has improved to position 45 in terms of business ranking and economy improvement due to their sound leadership. ‘Those who were with electricity here in Bungoma in 2013 were only twenty thousand and now after four years only we are having sixty four thousands residents who have been connected with electricity,’ he said. He said that they have pumped close to eight billion on electricity in Bungoma houses to help create jobs for youths with the power. ‘Let me ask you Bungoma and western people What do you need the government for its to better your lives and those we are competing with like Raila he has been a roads minister what road did he make here let’s say the truth,’’ he asked? ‘We said that every pregnant mother s across the country will give birth freely to reduce the rampant deaths caused by mothers delivering at home and it is now happening,’ he added. Every mother next year will be given free national insurance and get treated without any prayers We have also said that all students from class eight and form four will not pay for national exams so as to improve education and from year learning will be free from calls one to eight ‘Your pan paper Company here in Webuye that has been down for almost eight years but right now we have revived it and it has employed more than one thousand people and its yet to employ more what development do you people need again or you need riddles and proverbs,’ he said. The government of jubilee has not only revived pan paper only but we have revived many other companies across the country in bid to improve our countries economy,’ he said. We have new around 134 companies like Microsoft, Google, Avic, Peugeot, Dw ,Gtz that will change unemployment in this country We have put money in railway in electricity that’s why Kenya has improved to improved and 45 countries in terms to make ‘You want government that will serve you or a government that is full of greedy liars who want to take this country on a reverse gear,’ he said. He said that in politics we have lies some who are telling us they will take us to Canaan by legalizing changaa and busaa you are good bible readers have you ever had of a place where there is canaan of changaa and Bussaa my friends don’t play bad card with your votes. Lusaka said that what the Jubilee government promised to residents of Bungoma in health, roads, education and factories they have delivered. We are thankful to the Jubilee government for having honored there promises to our people what we now have is a debt to return back hand by voting for them in next week’s polls Present was water CS Eugene Wamalwa, Bungoma women rep Reginalda Wanyonyi, Sirisa MP John Waluke, Bungoma senator JP candidate Juma Mukhwana, Kimilili MP candidate Didmas Baraza and Kimilili ward MCA Robert Simiyu.  