Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has dropped NASA's parliamentary nomination saying he is committed to other duties. Sossion made the announcement shortly after the swearing-in of Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis at Kabarnet Show Ground. "I take this early opportunity to thank my party leader Raila Odinga for picking my name among the few nomination list to Parliament but I now want to urge him to withdraw me from the list and consider appointing another person because I have got other commitments to attend," he said on Monday. Sossion was nominated by the ODM party to represent workers, having served as chairperson in the teachers union and the Trade Union Kenya. More on this: KNUT not affiliated to NASA, Nzili says after Sossion nomination He was nominated alongside Migori woman representative Denitah Ghati who will represent Persons With Disability. Other nominees include Seth Kakusye to represent women and Khadija Hussein to represent the youth. In the Senate, Raila's party has nominated Beatrice Makori, Masitsa Shiyonga, Rebecca Lowoiya, Fatuma Jehow and Harold Kipchumba. In a letter, ODM said that it received more than 62,000 applications for nominations but could only pick those within the constitutionally available slots. Sossion, a Kalenjin from Bomet county, was congratulated by the leaders-elect in Baringo county for the swift decision. "It is wise of you to relinquish your earlier decision because it was not the voice of Kalenjin and the teachers in the entire nation," said outgoing Governor Benjamin Cheboi. Sossion noted that every person has a right to support any political party in this country. "But after Kenyans decide their leadership then they command respect from the people and the nation must remain peaceful " said Sossion. The union leader lauded Kenyans for electing teachers to various positions saying they are agents of change. He said Kiptis was the only teacher elected Governor in the country and "we have worked with him in the teacher union for about 15 years and I knew him as an inclusive leader and not a thief so with no doubt he is going to deliver in Baringo" he said. He also said as KNUT, he is going to retain Kiptis in some National Executive Council to give guidance on plights for teachers. Teachers had criticised Sossion for his decision to affiliate the union with Raila. Shortly before the August 8 general election, Knut and a section of other unions signed an MoU with the Opposition leader pleading to work with him should he have become president. 