Former champions Wiyeta Girls football team stormed to the semi-finals of the ongoing Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Association Games, thanks to 6-0 win against St Basile of Burundi in Gulu, Uganda yesterday.Christine Awour seems all set for the tournament&rsquo;s top scorer after delivering four goals in the quarters for Wiyeta. Martha Amunyole handed Wiyeta the lead in the 15th minute before Awour opened the floodgates in 18th, 24th and 26th minutes to make it 4-0 before Monicah Etot made it 5-0 with four minutes left to half time.Awour concluded her rout in the 56th minute to help Wiyeta secure the biggest win in the girl&rsquo;s category. Despite dominating national games, silverware at regional level has remained elusive since 2008 when they won the title in Rwanda. The side, coached by Edger Manyara, will face Alliance of Tanzania in one of the semi-final clashes set for tomorrow with hosts Kawempe playing their compatriots Rubaga in another last four encounter at the Gulu grounds.In the boys&rsquo; last eight, Kakamega High and St. Anthony Boys Kitale are in hunt for the semi-final slots today although their opponents were still unknown. Kakamega are yet to win the regional title while Saints will be chasing their second crown at that level.Other Kenyan representatives Ibinzo bowed out of the week-long event having succumbed to Alliance of Tanzania 3-4 in the quarter-final match. Kawempe defeated Rwandase side ES Mutunda 3-0 as Rubaga held nerve to see off their compatriots 2-1 in other quarter-finals.Monica Awour scored four goals in the 18th, 24th, 26 and 56th minute with Monica Atot bagging a brace in the 15th and 41st minute to award the national champions the deserved win.Wiyeta, who finished third during the last year competition will be seeking to go step further in the competition and grab the title that they last won in 2008 in Uganda.In the boy&rsquo;s football national champions Upper Hill crashed out of the competition after a 3-1 loss to Rwanda&rsquo;s college Karambi on Tuesday.In hockey, champions Sinyolo saw off local rivals St Joseph Kitale 1-0 to retain the title. In girls&rsquo; netball, Kenyan teams recorded wins with Kaya Tiwi continued their good run beating Burundi&rsquo;s CS Lumiere 48-9 as Obambo were too good for Gahini of Rwanda 42-25. In the girls handball, Kamusinga overwhelmed Hanika of Rwanda 21-18, while their compatriots Sega were defeated by hosts Mgogo 20-23.Other results saw Gombe from Uganda win against Apega of Rwanda 18-7. In girls basketball, St. Mary&rsquo;s Kitende won against St Brigid&rsquo;s 64-47. The Ugandan side led in the first quarter 23-6 before trailing their opponent 10-19 in the second quarter. They later won the third quarter 15-6 and tied 16-16 in the final quarter.