A non-governmental organisation has moved to court seeking to suspend cancellation of its operation certificate over allegations of tax evasion. Kenya Human Rights Commission says the decision by the NGOs Coordination Board to cancel its certificate is gross violation to fair hearing and wants it to be overturned. The commission says it received a letter on August 14 from the board with the notification that its certificate will be canceled. KHCR believes the action of the board is highly prejudicial and illegal. It also said on Monday that the move is damaging its image as an internationally renown human rights organisation. “The petitioner's image as an internationally renown human rights organisation is bound to suffer because the respondent has sensationally and maliciously associated it with tax evasion, money laundering, misappropriation and embezzlement of donor funds,” states a section of the suit papers. More on this: Fazul deregisters KHRC, orders Central Bank to freeze accounts Also read: KHRC to sue 'attention seeker' Fazul over illegal deregistration The lobby says that before the cancellation, it was not given the opportunity to be heard in relation to the actions undertaken. As a result of the cancellation, it says, there is the possibility its operations will be ground to a halt. KHRC was accused of operating four illegal bank accounts. Board executive director Fazul Mahamed said the lobby also failed to pay taxes amounting to Sh100 million to Kenya Revenue Authority and has allegedly hired expatriates without valid work permit. KHRC defended itself saying that as a leading human rights organisation in the country, it maintains highest levels of financial and operational integrity, the same it demands of public authorities whom it seeks to keep accountable. KHRC was registered in 1994. It was formed by Professor Makau Mutua, Maina Kiai, Dr Willy Mutunga, Kiraitu Murungi and Prof Peter Kareithi. The rights group has been in the forefront of fighting injustices ranging from issues of gender equality, extrajudicial killings, democracy, human dignity and social justice. Its troubles began immediately after the August 8 general elections. Read more: Makau Mutua tells off Fazul, says he has no powers to deregister KHRC