The IEBC official accused of attempting to bribe Maendeleo Chap Chap agents has been nabbed in Mlolongo town, Machakos county. Mavoko subcounty deputy returning officer Onesmus Kaloki was arrested by DCI officers at a hotel on Monday. He was locked up at the Mlolongo police station, where he spent the night after he was questioned by the station’s DCI officers. Kaloki is said to have sought to bribe MCC agents to surrender them copies of Forms 34A for the presidential and governor elections. Two agents had lodged complaints with the police, prompting the arrest. They said Kaloki and others called them repeatedly since Saturday, demanding to have the documents. The agents addressed the media at the Mlolongo police station after Kaloki was lockedup in a cell. They said the official identified himself on the phone as “Onesmus from the IEBC”. “This man has been calling me since Saturday. He demanded to meet me so that I surrender copies of the forms,” one agent said. She added that the man claimed he had misplaced his original forms, hence the request. “The man pressured me on the phone, claiming he had obtained the same forms from all the other agents in Mavoko subcounty, and I was the only one remaining,” the agent said. The other agent said, “The same man called me by my full names on the phone, adding that he was aware I was a Maendeleo Chap Chap party agent. “He said he wanted Form 34A from me. I told him my colleague signed the documents. He demanded I give him details of the colleague, but I declined.” The duo requested for anonymity for fear of victimisation. They said they feared for their lives because the issue might be political. The officers laid a trap to arrest the man — Kaloki. They accompanied the second agent to the hotel she had agreed to meet with the IEBC official. As the agent pretended to surrender the documents, the detectives stepped in and arrested the official. Athi River police boss Sharma Wario yesterday confirmed the incident. He spoke to the Star at his office in Athi River town yesterday. “I am aware of the IEBC official’s arrest, but do not have details. The matter is being handled by the Machakos county DCI commander,” Wario said. “The man spent the night at the Mlolongo police station, but was taken to Machakos DCI headquarters this morning for interrogation. “The DCI team has launched investigations into the matter.” Governor Alfred Mutua is the leader of Maendeleo Chap Chap party. He has been sworn into office for his second and last term. Mutua defeated Wiper candidate Wavinya Ndeti. Ndeti rejected the poll results. Before the final results were released she said, “We do not know where they are getting the results from and this is causing a lot of anxiety. We are not accepting the results. “People just do things the way they want to do them... Mutua is used to stealing... even last time he stole. “I think there are some Kenyans who discuss how to keep on stealing all the time.” Mutua dismissed Ndeti’s allegations. He said he did not bribe anybody to vote for him.  