Shell company has joined a list of sponsors ahead of this weekend’s Aberdare Hill Climb rally. The company, which distributes and markets Shell-branded fuel and lubricants, are donating fuel worth Sh100,000 towards the event. The event is also being supported by Kenya Commercial Bank, Stanbic and Coca Cola respectively. Shell country marketing manager, Mark Senteu, said it is an honour to be part of the event’s debut and promised to walk the journey with the organisers. “This is also a chance to showcase the prowess and capability of Shell V-Power and we wish all the drivers the best. Above all, we urge them to drive safely at all times,” said Senteu. The Aberdare Hill climb, organised by the Fat Rhinos Team, will run on a 1650 acres of the scenic land set in the heart of Great Rift Valley and overlooking the iconic Lake Naivasha. Clerk of the course, Jas Matharu, said the route is smooth, fast and twisty. “The route was graded, flattened and covered with Murray with the help of the Aberdare Hills Golf Retort. Additionally, we have laid down Camping facilities for spectators, competitors and officials available at the Aberdare Hill Resort,” he added. The two-day event will run from 12-6pm on Saturday and 8am-2pm the following day. Among the top drivers who have confirmed participation are —Baldev Chaggar (Mitsubishi), Carl Flash Tundo (Ford Fiesta), Karan Patel (Mitsubishi Lancer), Ian Duncan (Ford Capri), Onkar Rai (Mitsubsishi), Raaji Bharij (2WD car), Rajay Sehmi (2WD car), Ramesh Vishram (Ford Escort), Nikhil Vishram (Ford Escort), Adin Haq, Ajitesh Kapoor (4WD car), Alfir Khan (4WD car), Andrew Pleasance (Buggy) and Anish Chouhan (4WD car), Others are —Anthony Nielsen (Buggy), Asad Anwar (4WD car, Ben Spinks (Bike), Hamza Anwar (Buggy), Ben Woodhams (2WD car), Geoff Mayes (4WD car), Gerald Taylor (Bike), Gillian Bailey (Buggy), Imran Hakada (Buggy), Jim Heather-Hayes (2WD car), Jon Bovard (4WD car), Karan Sehmi (Buggy), Kunal Patel (Buggy), Lovejyot Singh (Buggy), Mike Diesbec (Bike), Nisha Pandya (Buggy), Nishit Lakhani (2WD car), Rajesh Maini (Buggy), Ryan Bailey (Buggy), Savanna Jessop (Magic), Shailen Mughal (Buggy), Shazco (Buggy), Tej Sehmi (Bik), Tim Jessop (Bike), Yuv Matharu (Magic ), Zameer Virjee (Buggy), Shivam Vinayak (Bike), Francesco Checchini (Bike), Anthony Nielsen (Bike) and Umar Slatch (Buggy).