A thread of debate is gaining traction that a section of the Kenyan population should consider seceding unless the other section behaves and hands over the Presidency. It has been ignited by sentiments attributed to David Ndii, an operative within NASA’s strategic ranks. The gist of the debate is that the Luo nation and a few other ethnic confederates should consider divorcing the Kikuyu nation and their ethnic confederates in a move that will require the dismembering of the country into two or more countries. The main ground is the Presidency and the sharing of national resources. This debate stretches our minds and refines our nation. Every person has a free will. It is a will to think and manifest the thoughts through action. The will is so free that even our Creator, God, does not control it. He only asks us to choose. Without this free will, human beings would be like robots. It is on this free will that the right to self-determination exists. For order, strength and progress, individuals cede some measure of free will to usher in a collective will. This is the foundation upon which a society is anchored. Building anything takes thinking, planning, time, sacrifice and investment. Destruction requires tools only. Democracy is about sacrifices, restraint and even magnanimity, because being many does not necessarily translate into being right. In the case of our country, the undeclared rivalry between the Luo and Kikuyu nations has been with us. The contests between the Kenyatta and Odinga families continue. In my view, this is the oil that fuels the secession movement. I consider the secession suggestion as an insult to me and to the Luo nation. It is packaged to be a way of liberating ourselves from the Kikuyu nation, a viable way of getting the Presidency and a faster route to Canaan. If the Luo people – and particularly Raila Odinga – cannot go past Uhuru to the Presidency, then he can as well create a small country and lead it. That the Luo nation should think of combining a few counties to make a nation and lead it is an insult to a group of people who are courageous, strong and able. We want to lead, and we want to lead Kenya. If it is Canaan, we want the real and full Canaan. Weda is a lawyer   