The president's chair and a security team have already been taken to Bomas in anticipation of IEBC's announcement of Kenya's president. The seat is so special that it is transported in its own vehicle. The only civilian who has sat on it is musician Bahati, whose seconds of fame caused a stir during Jubilee Party's national convention at Kasarani Stadium on September 10, 2016. Protocol and security teams at the national tallying centre will ensure smooth reception of the certificate by the winner.  Red carpets are transported to the Bomas of Kenya national tallying centre in Nairobi ahed of IEBC's decalarion of the presidential election winner, August 11, 2017. /MONICAH MWANGI President Uhuru Kenyatta has been leading the interim tally but Opposition chief Raila Odinga's NASA party has declared him winner. They have even demanded that the electoral agency name Raila president, saying his votes numbered 8.04 million and Uhuru's 7.7 million. By 11 am on Friday, the commission's portal showed Uhuru had 8,170,016 votes (54.26 per cent) and Raila 6,754,173 votes (44.85 per cent). Read: Declare Raila winner now, NASA tells IEBC, places tally at 8.04 million Also read: We'll not be coerced to declare poll winner, Chebukati says over NASA demands  US Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec arrives at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi for the IEBC's announcement of Kenya's ruler for the next five years, August 11, 2017. /MONICAH MWANGI Following the Opposition's complaints, Jubilee and NASA teams went to Bomas to examine forms 34A and 34B from the 290 constituencies. The second batch of forms is still being inspected; at 9am, IEBC announced it had received 270 and was awaiting the remaining 20. If the NASA leader is announced winner, his security would have to be taken over by the presidential team and the state protocol.  Security officers at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi ahead of the IEBC's announcement of Kenya's ruler for the next five years, August 11, 2017. /MONICAH MWANGI In 2013, Uhuru was put in a different vehicle and his security changed immediately he received the certificate from the then IEBC chairman Issac Hassan. He was escorted by an entourage of State House officers and presidential security escort including outriders. Other than receiving the certificate, there will be fewer formalities at Bomas if Uhuru is declared victor since he already has presidential security. 