A preliminary forensic audit of the failed Crane Bank in Uganda has made a damning critique of Kenyan banker Rasiklal Kantaria, its chairman. He founded Prime Bank in Kenya in 1992. The report called Project Nyonyi by PricewaterhouseCoopers has just leaked but was given to the Bank of Uganda in December 2016. “In addition to being a director of the bank, Kantaria played a central role in deceiving the BoU and the general public as to the real ownership of CBL” and accused him of “Money laundering - concealing and disguising sources of funds – and embezzlement.” The shocking report catalogues how hundreds of millions of dollars were siphoned out of Crane Bank by its founder Sudhir Ruparelia and his associates. Crane Bank handed over the leases for its 47 branches to Meera Investments, a property firm controlled by Ruparelia, and then rented them back at extortionate rates, made loans to dummy companies, wrote off loans to insider companies without redeeming their securities, practiced false accounting and overstated annual profits. The Ugandan central bank took over management of Crane Bank in October 2016 after it ran into financial problems and commissioned PwC to conduct the forensic audit. Kantaria’s role appears to have been to allow Sudhir to retain control of Crane Bank by using his name as the owner of White Sapphire in Mauritius. On paper Kantaria appeared to own 47 per cent of Crane Bank through White Sapphire, making him the biggest single shareholder in the Bank. “Our findings suggest that Mr Kantaria is most likely to be a front for Dr Sudhir Ruparelia’s interest in CBL, which would explain his (Mr Kantaria’s) lack of influence and interest in CBL,” PWC declared. Kantaria paid Ush11.5bn (roughly $4 million) in two tranches in 2006 and 2010 to buy the shares from Jagdish Nagrecha and Jyotsna Ruparelia, Sudhir’s wife. However PwC said they traced the funds used to Premier Commodities, a company associated with Sudhir. “Of the UGX 36B ( roughly $12 million) of dividends paid to Kantaria or White Sapphire since 2006, we (PwC) were able to trace dividends for all but one of those years, ( 78 per cent of all dividends ), back to Ruparelia Group companies and associates, or to internal CBL accounts,” the audit report states. “Though White Sapphire, (a company incorporated in November 2012, and domiciled in Mauritius), is reported to be 100 per cent owned by Kantaria, White Sapphire’s draft accounts show that White Sapphire’s management and audit fees have since 2013 been settled by either Mr A R Kalan, the former CBL MD, or Dr and Mrs Ruparelia,” says the PWC report. “Rather than involve himself in the efforts to save the Bank from collapse in late 2016, Mr Kantaria resigned from the Board of CBL in September of 2016 and did not attend any Board meeting in the year, 2016.”