The 2017 Election was the first one to be held on the second Tuesday of August as envisaged by the Constitution of Kenya 2010. The election was also the second since the promulgation of the same Constitution. The General Election has also been characterized by a number of changes to the electoral environment. Key among these were changes to the Election Laws, some of which impacted the process positively while others have had the opposite effect. The other major change was the replacement of the entire team of commissioners of the IEBC.In its bid to contribute to a credible, peaceful, free and fair election, the Elections Observation Group (ELOG) has deployed over 8,000 observers across all 47 counties and 290 constituencies. Out of these 1,700 Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT) observers were specially trained and deployed in a nationally representative random sample of polling stations. The rest are deployed to county representative samples in the Busia, Meru and Nairobi counties. PVT is an advanced Election Day observation methodology which allows ELOG to confidently comment on Election Day and tabulation processes. ELOG&rsquo;s PVT will also provide an independent verification of the presidential results as well as the gubernatorial results in Busia, Meru, and Nairobi as announced by the IEBC.The ELOG PVT observers observed the opening and setup of the polling stations and were required to send information on the process. This statement is based on Observation and Incident Reports filed as of 11:00am by ELOG observers. ELOG has so far observed the following:Early yesterday morning, some ELOG observers were denied access into polling stations by Presiding officers who demanded oaths of secrecy for observers and stamped IEBC letters. We commend the responsiveness and efforts by senior IEBC officials in resolving the issues. ELOG notes that this same confusion in credentials required by different presiding officers to facilitate observers in polling stations also was a problem at the 2013 election. ELOG also observed late arrival of materials at polling stations across the country, with more cases reported in Meru. Of these, ballot papers were missing the most. Observers also reported cases of delayed opening of polling stations as a result of late arrival by polling officials.ELOG continued observing throughout the day and will be releasing some of its key findings on the voting process to the media and on social media. Opondi is chairperson, ELOG