A Teso witch doctor who predicted President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory now says NASA principals will "abandon Raila Odinga in the next few weeks". Raila formed a super alliance with Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), outgoing Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper). He took on Uhuru and DP William Ruto with Kalonzo as his running mate. At a press conference last month, witch doctor Dancun Omoding from Kocholia village in Busia county said Uhuru would win. His prediction may have come to be but pollsters also said the race would be tight. on June 27, a survey by The Star found Jubilee would defeat NASA. In the opinion poll, Uhuru was ahead with 48 per cent while the Opposition chief trailed him at 39 per cent. On August 1, a poll by The Star found Uhuru was ahead by one point. The leaders campaigned rigorously and were both certain they would win. More on this: Uhuru still ahead of Raila in poll Also read: Tight race for State House as Uhuru one per cent ahead of Raila - The Star poll Omodin, who shot to the limelight after reportedly causing thieves to eat grass, says the spirits have shown him all the four NASA principals will abandon their ODM counterpart. “When I called a press conference and predicted what the spirits had told me about Uhuru, many called me names and said I was a prophet of doom. I now want to make another prophecy and only time will tell,” he said during an interview on Monday. “Odinga will never be the president of this country. It is something beyond him. He should accept this and move on." Omoding is said to have clients across the county. He owns several hotels and houses in Busia county and drives expensive vehicles. The witch doctor's home in Kocholia was a haven of activities during campaigns as politicians sought divine intervention. He said many of those he predicted would win were declared victors. “I predicted the wins of [Busia Governor Sospeter] Ojamong, Senator Amos Wako among many others politicians. Those the spirits told me would lose lost despite coming to me during campaigns. I warned them." The man referred to as daktari (doctor) is feared and rebuked by locals in equal measure. He claims he has supernatural powers passed down from his grandfather. Omoding called for peace saying the spirits also told him Raila would lose the election. Before the election, The Star interviewed eight witch doctors countrywide. A number were willing to be quoted and boasted of their successes and gold-plated client list. Some said they ensured the election of big names in African politics. Pastor George Weda, theologian and politician in Kisumu, spoke of Faustian bargains and the temptation of Christ. The national chairman of the Farmers’ Party said witch doctors bestow satanic powers, but recipients pay dearly. In October 1994, President Daniel Moi formed an inquiry commission on devil worship. The report was suppressed but leaked. The conclusion: Satanism was rampant. Read: How politicians are enriching witch doctors