Two top Kenyan and Tanzanian government officials held talks to resolve trade impasse between the two East African nations at Namanga on Thursday. The impasse that had lasted for one month at the border post was occasioned by an action that Tanzanian authorities took to block Kenya’s milk and its products, and cigarettes. Tanzanian Revenue Authority banned transportation of the two products into their country without explanation, and Kenya retaliated in stopping importation of liquefied petroleum gas and wheat flour from crossing Namanga to its territory. Tanzania’s Trade permanent secretary, Prof. Adolf Mkenda led his country’s delegation while the Kenyan team was led by principal secretary for state department of Trade in the ministry of Industry and Co-operatives, Dr. Chris Kiprono. After more than seven hours of deliberation, the two top officials issued a joint communiqué at 7pm that ended the impasse and also opened further discussions on the way forward as they move to a second meeting to be hosted in Tanzania from August 16th to 18th. Some of the specific issues that were tackled in the Namanga meeting on the Tanzanian side were; the Kenyan decision to block that country’s exportation of LPG and its wheat flour. The two top officials observed that some of the issues that were earlier instructed by the heads of the two countries, Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and John Magufuli of Tanzania, to be implemented had not been attended to because of “administrative challenges”. Mkenda said; “The delay in the implementation of the directive of the two heads of state was due to administrative challenges.” It was also observed that on July 28, Kenya issued a directive to allow LPG from mTanzania and therefore the same should flow without restrictions with immediate effect. The two top officials, in their communiqué, the implantation of the directives made by the heads of state on the exportation of wheat flour to Kenya had also not been implemented due to an existing EAC legal provision (Legal Notice No. 70 of June 30). It was agreed that the 26 Tanzanian trucks detained by Kenyan authorities at the border post be released with immediate effect. Tanzania agreed to allow Kenyan trucks exporting milk and their products into their country without further ado. The neighbouring state of Tanzania however declined to accept Kenyan cigarettes as it cited its existing domestic legislation. Mkenda said his country will develop an action plan to address the issue and communicate the framework for its implementation to Kenya during the next bilateral meeting in August. Kiptoo said Tanzania is Kenya’s number six trading partner in the world and number two in East Africa but the current impasse has seen a drop in business transaction between the two states since 2015. He said Kenya’s export to Tanzania brings in 1.5 billion dollars annually and that has reduced by 26 per cent since the decline of trade from 2015. The Kenyan official earlier said the reason why his country declined to accept Tanzanian wheat flour was because the two countries operate on two different schemes businesses. “Tanzania operates on stay of application scheme which allows its citizens to import wheat and pay duty of 10 per cent, but in Kenya, we operate under duty remission scheme with registered millers where nobody is allowed to import the product with the same duty unless one is in the scheme,” argued Kiptoo. He said some companies in Kenya which import wheat pay full duty because they are not in remission scheme. Under the remission scheme, Kiptoo said, millers are required to mop up domestic wheat production and for any shortfall the country can import its shortfall. The country produces 300, 000 metric tons of wheat and consumes 1.5 million tons annually, he said.          