After being hit by rescheduling hiccups emanating from the unpredictable political situation in the country over the past one week, the SportPesa Premier League returns with five matches on the cards today. League leaders Gor Mahia return to Moi Stadium, Kisumu for a clash against Muhoroni Youth in a rescheduled encounter from last month as K’Ogalo battled English Premier League side Everton in a friendly math in Tanzania. Gor and Muhoroni met at the beginning of the month with K’ogalo scoring two unanswered goals to open a four-point gap over second-placed Posta Rangers, a score line which extended coach Dylan Kerr’s one hundred percent win record. A rejuvenated Jackies Tuyisenge will be highly depended on for goals against a side who met the wrath of Independent Disciplinary and Complaints Committee (IDCC) for their misconduct on different occasions. Already suffering from a financial crisis and internal feuds, Muhoroni may not challenge Gor enough to prevent them from bagging the three points owing to their current good run. It remains unknown whether unsettled Kenneth Muguna will make the starting IX after expressing his desire to leave. Rangers travel to western Kenya for a date with Chemilil Sugar at Chemilil Sports Complex. Rangers, will be eager to bag the three points on offer in what could be a tough encounter as they seek to keep their title hopes alive. The return of talisman Dennis Mukaisi, who missed their 1-0 loss to Nzoia Sugar, will be a big boost to Sammy Omollo’s side. The millers will be worried of their winless streak which has stretched to six matches. Away at Narok County Stadium, there will be a battle between 2009 champions Sofapaka and new boys Nakumatt. Sofapaka, who are six points shy of leaders Gor have found their winning touch, cementing their title-winning credentials. Nakumatt will be bouyed by their 1-0 win over Ulinzi Stars in their previous encounter. After getting three more points without breaking a sweat against champions Tusker thanks to an IDCC ruling, Zoo Kericho will be walking with their heads high when they battle relegation-threatened Mathare United at Ruaraka. The league debutants, who haven’t tasted defeat in their last nine encounters, will hope to extend that piece of history against a side which has struggled to replicate last season’s form. The match is set to be aired live on Bamba Sport. At Thika Stadium, hosts Thika United welcome Nzoia Sugar with host coach, Nicholas Muyoti, hoping to relieve himself from the pressure of getting entangled in the relegation dog-fight. Nzoia will be eying their third consecutive straight win following wins over Rangers and Ulinzi Stars.