The Kenyan SGR conjures different things to different people.There are those in the official opposition, who swear that it was designed to facilitate mega-corruption and consequently was over-priced by over Sh100billion. Then there are those in government who proudly maintain that it is the biggest infrastructural project in the last 121 years. It is President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s signature project for his first term in office. It is in the background of this controversy that this writer decided to ride on the Madaraka Express E1 from Mombasa to Nairobi.We left Nyali at 6.00am to get to Miritini on time and avoid the early morning traffic. The Miritini Station Terminal is a spectacle to behold. It is state of the art, clean and aesthetically beautiful.The inside is almost intimate and one feels at home immediately. Clearly, the architect and other consultants did not spare anything. They put their lives and minds into it and President Uhuru, the author of the scheme, is deservedly proud of this mega-project. Some of the project&rsquo;s critics ought to experience the SGR personally and then perhaps they wouldn&rsquo;t be a mite as harsh in their criticism.We boarded First Class Coach Number 4 at 8.45am. The ambience of the coach was outstanding, complete with a screen and soothing music. The aisle was wide and the leg-room comparable to Business Class in airline lingo. The word that kept coming to mind was impressive, very impressive! It brought out buried feelings of patriotism and pride in being Kenyan. We have conducted our affairs so wrongly for so long that patriotism has taken a back-seat.The SGR brings tears into one&rsquo;s eyes as we are reminded that Kenya can do anything it undertakes to do. We are not the morons that we have reduced ourselves to. When and if we dig deep we can be the best that can be. Mediocrity is not our portion.The train pulled out of the station at precisely 9.00am through some scenic country and within the hour we were at Voi Station. To get to Voi within that time span and without dodging potholes, trucks, buses and other obstacles was a modern day miracle. The train ride was smoother that an aeroplane flight and the only thing that foretold we were travelling at an average of 110km per hour was the speed indicator on the screen and the brief stop near Mtito-Andei Station to let the Nairobi-Mombasa train pass. It hurtled past at an astonishing speed. After viewing lots of wildlife in Tsavo National we cruised through Mtito-Andei, Emali and Athi River stations uneventfully, finally pulling into Syokimau Station, Nairobi Terminal bang on schedule.A couple of suggestions that could improve the SGR experience include installation of Wi-Fi and phone-charging ports. This is surely not asking for too much as matatus and buses provide the same.Another observation was that the standards of customer care and staff training were below par and rough on the edges. Understandably, the SGR was launched hurriedly, perhaps without opportunity to hire the finest. This can, however, be smoothened by some professional in-house training.One incident almost served to ruin my SGR experience. Two railway guards spotted a single-malt whisky in my luggage and swiftly decided to confiscate the same. I expressed polite objections as I had not been found nor did I have any plans of imbibing the same in their premises or on the train.They insisted on throwing it in the dustbin (obviously with the intent of retrieving the same once the train pulled out of station.) It is then that yours truly expressed indignation and told them it doesn&rsquo;t work that way. They were supposed to record the &ldquo;offensive&rdquo; item then place it in a safe deposit box at my cost until such time as I or my proxy retrieves it.They were adamant. Shame on you, Chadwick Odongo and Patrick Buluma!