Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga will challenge the reelection of Governor Cyprian Awiti in court. This is despite the fact that Awiti took the oath of office last Friday. Awiti and Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata were sworn in for a second term by judge Aaron Makau. He was declared winner with 210,173 votes against Magwanga’s 189,060 votes. But Magwanga yesterday said he will be moving to court to challenge the election outcome. Magwanga cited electoral malpractices during the tabulation of votes as the reason he is going to court. “Awiti shouldn’t start celebrating yet, since the results had glaring anomalies. We’re seeking justice, because we believe Awiti lost, but was declared winner through cooked figures,” he said. Magwanga claimed some presiding officers were recalled and compromised to sign Form 37A a week after the General Election was held. He had contested for Homa Bay governor as an independent candidate. Magwanga said he and his team are gathering evidence to back their claims that Awiti was rigged in. “We’re moving to court soon after we gathered enough evidence,” he said Magwanga said some of his agents were frustrated during the voting exercise. “We’ve places where my agents were forcibly removed from the tallying rooms, especially in Karachuonyo and Ndhiwa constituencies, so that figure can be inflated in favour of my opponent,” he said. Magwanga also dismissed an olive branch extended to him by the governor, saying Awiti’s administration did little to improve the lives of Homa Bay residents in his first term. Magwanga said he is not ready to work with Awiti over what he termed “poor services”. “I can’t support an administration which mismanages public resources. It should be known that my governorship candidature was not propelled by individual ego, but by residents interest,” Magwanga said. On Friday, Awiti urged Magwanga and other politicians who contested against him to join him in improving the county. The governor said he has nothing personal against his opponents. “Let us put our energies together and work for our people. I’ll be governor for all, regardless of the candidates you supported in the election,” Awiti said.  