NASA chief Raila Odinga says recurring theft of his victories is part of the reason he will not run again for President. He has run and lost four times. The defeated NASA presidential candidate also signed an MoU with his four alliance partners promising he would only be a one-term President. It was largely based on that commitment that they backed him for State House. On Sunday, Raila told The Financial Times of London he will not run again. “It is not about me. It’s not about Raila Odinga. I’m not going to be a candidate again,” the paper quoted him as saying in an interview. “We just want Kenyans to know what happened. What the whole world is not understanding is happening.” Today Raila has promised to make a major announcement about his next move. He says he will also tell his supporters the “real numbers”, which he says demonstrate that he — not President Uhuru Kenyatta — won. He said it would make no sense for his supporters to vote in the future. The former Prime Minister appeared to capture the feelings of the majority of his supporters, who took to social media immediately the final results were announced on Friday. They expressed anger and disillusionment with the system, saying the election had again been stolen. “There’s no point people going to the election in the future, queuing for hours to vote, or running around for months campaigning. At the end of the day it’s the computer in the National Tallying Centre that’s making the decision,” he said. Raila has refused to concede, despite mounting pressure from the local and international community to do so — or to follow the law by going to court and challenging the results. Local and international observers have said the election was largely free, fair and credible. The agreement between Raila of ODM and his four NASA principals was that he would serve for one term. They are Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang’ula’ (Ford Kenya), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Isaac Rutto (CCM). Had NASA won the General Election on Tuesday, Kalonzo would be the next flagbearer in the next NASA government, if it won. In April when he was named flagbearer, Raila likened himself to Joshua who led the Israelites from Egypt to Canaan. “I will be Joshua, who will lead Kenyans to cross River Jordan to Canaan. Once in Canaan, I will have accomplished my task,” he said. 