The outcome of the bruising battle for the Starehe MP seat that has pitted youthful candidates is anyone&rsquo;s guess.It&rsquo;s a Jubilee-NASA showdown.The seat has attracted eight contestants but only three &mdash; singer Charles Njagua (Jaguar) of JP, businessman Steve Mbogo (ODM) and activist Boniface Mwangi (Ukweli Party) &mdash; are the perceived frontrunners.Others in the race are Mwaniki Kwenya of Maendeleo Chap Chap, Rhoda Kitavi (Wiper), Moses Odero (Safina), David Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a (Chama Mwanganza Daima) and Thomas Getange of the Republican Liberty Party.The constituency has 166,397 registered voters &mdash; highest in the city. More than 10,000 of those voters were transferred from other counties to register in the constituency by JP politicians who later lost in the primaries.There is a possibility that they will not vote. The politicians who ferried them will not finance their travel on Election Day because they are not in the race. Incumbent Maina Kamanda is not seeking reelection. He lost in the JP primaries.Nairobi JP chairman Sanctus Ndegwa yesterday said there is a tight contest between Njagua and Mbogo.Jubilee is having a hard time because Mwangi and Mwaniki could split its vote, making room for a possible Mbogo victory.&ldquo;For sure, the Starehe seat is a neck-and-neck contest between Njagua and Mbogo. It&rsquo;s difficult to predict who will win,&rdquo; Ndegwa said.&ldquo;Mbogo is a threat to Njagua because he has his own followers, money and he is a Kikuyu, though in ODM. He has implemented projects at the grassroots using his money and his well-oiled campaign is better than Njagua&rsquo;s.&rdquo;He said JP is not underrating Mbogo and is working tirelessly to ensure Njagua wins.&ldquo;There are votes he will get just because he&rsquo;s Kikuyu, not because he&rsquo;s ODM. But we are working very hard to get the seat,&rdquo; Ndegwa added.ODM city chairman George Aladwa said Mbogo is expected to win easily because he will get the NASA vote bloc in the constituency &mdash; the alliance has no other popular candidate.He said Njagua lacks acumen to succeed in a competitive elective seat like Starehe.&ldquo;Our main problem in 2013 was getting a candidate from the Kikuyu community, which is dominant in the constituency. This time, we got a very strong one,&rdquo; Aladwa said. &ldquo;The only threat was Kamanda, who is not in the race, hence, we&rsquo;ll clinch the seat easily.&rdquo;The former city mayor said ODM has two sitting MCAs &mdash; Herman Azangu of Land Mawe and Manoah Mboku of Nairobi South. This is an indication NASA has significant support in the constituency, he said.