Forty ANC MCAs-elect from the four counties of the former Western province have asked the NASA summit to issue directives on how power will be shared at the county level. They met Mudavadi in Kakamega on Sunday. The MCAs want the power-sharing agreement signed by the five coalition co-principals replicated in county governments. Mudavadi said he will raise the matter at the summit. He said the best approach would be for the five principals to meet and agree and then the matter be left to each of them to instruct county governments on implementation. “The remaining time is too short to follow the legal channel where the summit will have to discuss, agree and then file the reached agreement with the registrar of political parties,” he said. They MCAs said ANC deserves a share of the county executive positions because of Mudavadi’s presidential sacrifice, campaign and the fact he founded NASA, which united the opposition. This could prove tricky to implement given the coalition agreement did not mention the counties. In the agreement, NASA chief Raila Odinga was to be President with his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka as deputy, Mudavadi chief minister with Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang’ula and CCM’s Isaac Rutto as his deputies if NASA took power. MCAs unanimously endorsed Mudavadi to run for President in 2022, saying that he sacrificed ANC for NASA. Mudavadi told the MCAs they will take charge of party affairs at the grassroots. He hinted at a possible purge of party officials, citing complicity “in their interim status”. Mudavadi said there could be party elections at the grassroots and a purge at the headquarters to reorganise the unit’s affairs and position it for the 2022 race. “I feel let down by the dishonesty that manifested itself during party primaries. Frustrated aspirants went to other parties and won seats. These would be ANC MCAs and MPs,” he said. Mudavadi said some people “committed the abomination of stealing elections”. “You would think that they know that Kenyans are aware they stole votes, but no, they are frenzied in covering their footprints through murder and desperate destruction of evidence,” he said in reference to the murdered poll officer in Siaya county and people caught interfering with ballot boxes in Nairobi. Mudavadi said the recently reported killing of officials who were hired by the IEBC to oversee the election is “meant to scare others from telling the truth about vote theft”. He said NASA appealled against the presidential results at the Supreme Court “to show the whole world the entire election was a sham and cannot therefore stand the test of time”. Raila yesterday said he will not stop his quest to have the presidential election results nullified.        