President Uhuru Kenyatta Jubilee Party's infiltration of vote-rich Western in last week's General Election will force the region's two Luhya political bigwigs back to the drawing board to strategise. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula firm grip on the more than 2.3 million Western votes has been thrown into limbo after Uhuru's inroads saw him garner significant votes compared to 2013 election. Five National Super Alliance leaders and some political commentators had argued that Jubilee would not reap from the "locked" western votes, following the reunification of Mudavadi and Wetang'ula ahead of the August 8 poll. The duo have been embroiled in sibling rivalry over the control of votes in the region as they eye the presidency. Ten Jubilee-allied candidates in the NASA strongholds Kakamega, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia secured or retained their seats, despite the opposition principals launching intense campaigns for voters to reject them. Jubilee also won numerous MCA seats. No single MP from five Western counties, apart from Trans Nzoia was elected on Uhuru's TNA and the DP President William Ruto's URP in 2013. NASA flagbearer and ODM leader Raila Odinga's enormous influence in Western sent shock waves to Mudavadi and Wetang'ula after securing 12 seats. His ODM candidates Wilber Ottichillo won the Vihiga governor seat, the party's deputy leader Wycliffe Oparanya and Sospeter Ojaamong retained their Kakamega and Busia governor seats, respectively. ODM won the Kakamega woman representative position, Shinyalu, Mumias West, Luanda, Teso South, Matayos, Butula, Funyula and Budalang'i parliamentary seats and numerous county assembly positions. Mudavadi party did not win any governor's seat, in unlike 2013 where he had one. He, however, have two senators, a woman representative, 11 MPs and a number of MCAs. Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya has two governors in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia from one in 2013, 10 MPs, a senator and woman representative. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, who retained his seat on the Jubilee Party ticket, said the teaming up of Wetang'ula and Mudavadi did not lock Western because residents support leaders with good agendas. "Our people have seen the importance of us cooperating with the Jubilee government. Roads have upgraded and colleges elevated," he said. Other Jubilee MPs in Kakamega County who defended their succeed are Malulu Injendi (Malava), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) and Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani). In Jubilee MPs in Bungoma include John Waluke (Sirisia),Daniel Wanyama (Webuye West), Didmus Wekesa (Kimilili), while Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) reclaimed the seat from his arch rival John Serut. Jubilee's candidate for Trans Nzoia woman representative Janet Nangabo retained her seat while Michael Mbito clinched the senate seat against the incumbent Henry Ndiema of Ford Kenya. "The election outcome now confirms it is wananchi who have the key and the lock of the Western vote. It shows that the region is open to anybody with a clear agenda," Washiali said. Political analyst Barrack Muluka said the uncertain voting pattern in Western that saw Uhuru get more votes could be attributed to his influence from the numerous visits and "huge money unleashed on the electorate". "The fact that these fellows (NASA) were fielding candidates in same constituencies made it very easy for Jubilee to win some seats. Areas where Jubilee won the seats you would find that there was an ANC, ODM and Ford Kenya candidate, which was completely foolish," he said. Muluka said both Mudavadi and Wetang'ula should solidify their political effort in approaching future elections to avoid the situation of being seen as competitors. "There is no such thing as friendly fire in this political effort. If you are not together you will help others to fly through," he said. Mulaka, however, points out that election has seen Mudavadi emerge "more solid" for locking votes in his Vihiga and neighbouring Kakamega and Busia counties for Raila compared to Wetang'ula's Bungoma. "Bungoma was disastrous compared to other western counties. It is the region Uhuru got more votes in Luhyaland," he said. Uhuru got 125,865 votes in Bungoma from 42,988 he garnered in 2013. In Vihiga, Uhuru got 18,254 votes from 2,542 he got last time and got 34,400 votes in Busia compared to 8,186 in 2013. "Going into the future as Mudavadi and Wetang'ula work together, Mudavadi has a head start and it is upon him to have proper forums focusing on elected leaders in the region regardless of their party affiliations," Muluka said. Washiali, however, said Jubilee lawmakers in the region will back any leader for the presidency whether a Luhya or an outsider with a clear agenda for the country and Western residents. "We want an agenda not just going to tribal alignments. Any decision we would make to back any leader would be for development of our people and how they are going to progress," he said.     