Candidates in this year’s national examinations will be the first batch to use the Unique Personal Identifiers in place of the traditional index numbers, the Ministry of Education has said. This follows the expected launch of the National Education Management Information System (Nemis) on September 28, that will see details of learners uploaded on the system for easy identification. Nemis is a web-based system that offers seamless data management of candidates in the education sector. The adoption of UPIs, one of the measures aimed at reforming the education sector, followed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to Knec last year. Students will use a single UPI at all levels of their education right from ECDE to university. This will make it easy to track their education progress and eliminate the culture of fake certificates. This will work by head teachers and principals keying in birth certificate numbers to the system, which will then be run against data on the Integrated Population Registration System to automatically generate information on individual learners. The system will facilitate financial management of schools and ensure equity in the capitation per learner by guiding the government in the allocation of funds. It will also enable the government to generate data on the teacher-student ratio in every school. “It is time for us to now operate as sensible responsible people who have accurate information on the education sector of our country, (people) who can tell you with a measure of certainty how many children we have in school and how many children are out of school,” Education CS Fred Matiang’i said on Friday. He spoke at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development during the sensitisation of education officials on the use of Nemis. The officials were drawn from the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association, Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance). “It should never be guesswork as we go forward on the resources we are allocated and where they are going,” Matiang’i told the officials, who included regional directors.