A top Jubilee leader is said to have hurriedly instructed his communications team to acquire a state-of–the-art drone camera (pictured) after realising that a similar strategy by NASA had taken the world of campaign photography by storm. The Jubilee leader was reportedly taken aback by an award-winning photograph taken by one of the drone cameras imported by NASA at a mega rally in Nairobi recently. With the mouthwatering level of photography employed by drone cameras and the ultimate psychological effect such pictures have on supporters, the two rivals are going out full-throttle against each other to win the numbers. === A Central-based JP lobby group is battling extortion claims after details emerged that it has been coercing people to fund it. One of its lead lobbyists, a former lawmaker, is said to be collecting thousands of shillings from Kenyans of goodwill, but the money never reaches the group. The former MP, who had been struggling financially until the godsend initiative was launched, has undertaken a major facelift of his wardrobe courtesy of the ‘well-paying job’. Factional disputes have now emerged, with infighting threatening to split the lobby, at a time when its mobilisation network is expected to come in handy as the campaigns roll to the homestretch. === Politics is the art of the impossible, so they say. A Jubilee governor aspirant from Nyanza, who stormed the race as an underdog, has turned around his fortunes and apparently appears to be the frontrunner in the gubernatorial race. The shrewd politician received negative publicity upon launching his bid, but decided to retreat to the grassroots with vigorous nocturnal campaigns that have seen him leapfrog his rivals. An internal opinion poll commissioned by the incumbent on the popularity of the Jubilee candidate delivered damning details of how the governor might lose the seat at the August 8 polls. The survey is kept under wraps, considering the damage its release would cause. === Is the NASA boat facing financial turmoil, barely eight days to the epic presidential contest? Well, Corridors is informed that a vicious tussle over control of campaign funds could hurt the opposition’s campaign sprint. That a family member of a top principal has taken charge of the much-needed resources to oil the campaigns is a sticking point that is fuelling the firestorm swirling around the NASA brigade. The ‘royal family’ member is said to have paralysed many of the opposition activities. Those at the helm of the presidential campaign secretariat feel short-changed as they allegedly have no control over the funds. Things could get murkier in the coming days.