Standing tall at six feet, eight inches, Kajiado’s 34-year-old Deputy Governor Martin Moshisho exuded confidence in his maiden speech soon after he was sworn in to office. With a deep, authoritative and yet a humble voice, Moshisho took the microphone amid deafening ululations from young Jubilee Party supporters and stepped forward to address the county. He was speaking during his inauguration as the second deputy governor of Kajiado at Maasai Technical Training Institute. Without flinching at the 6,000 sets of eyes from the guests, Moshisho said: “I thank the people of this county for giving us a chance to be their servant leaders. I cannot believe you brought us this far. This win is not only our victory in #TeamLenku but a victory for the people of Kajiado.” Moshisho said as a youth, he felt honoured to have climbed political ropes to become the deputy governor of a unique county. Unique, he said, because of its economic diversity and people united without tribal tags. He said Kajiado is such a unique county because the indigenous people have embraced those who came to live with them and showed them love and good neighbourliness. “When we went into this campaign, I never thought we will reach far. It was your will and determination to back us in kind that gave us enormous energy to walk this long path,” Moshisho said. Moshisho put up a campaign through youth mobilisation in Jubilee side that brought to nil the ambitions of Nasa candidates in the political arena. He, along with other players his age kept the fire burning, though with little resources, and disengaged a more dynamic side of governor David Nkedianye that had all the financial resources at hand. Moshisho said they made in the race because they believed God stood on their side, and that they never despaired even when there were no resources to help them move on. Before Moshisho was named by Governor Joseph ole Lenku to be his running mate in the governor race, he was already putting up a serious campaign against Matapato North MCA Lesalaon Seki in his quest to become the next ward member. Even while he was campaigning for the ward seat, financial resources for this former student leader at Mt. Kenya University were not forthcoming. He was a jobless youth in the village after completing his university education at the time. With a wife, Beatrice Martine and a several months old baby son, Moshisho went down to pray hard for heavens to open up opportunities for them. As if his creator was around the corner to listen to the young family cries, heavens opened up when Lenku passed by Matapato North ward and identified a partner in race for governor. He walked out of his house as he assured his young family that all will be well, and indeed all went well and he is now the proudest young father with a salary of some Sh900, 000 that comes with an official car, a government house and armed body guards to watch on him and family round the clock. During his inauguration at Maasai Technical Training Institute, Moshisho walked with his wife, Beatrice as climbed the dais to take his oath of office. Both the couple exhibited love in the family through unending smiles as both could take leave to look at each other before a multitude of people. Beatrice did not exhibit fear at the look of his super tall and handsome husband, who kept hundreds of unmarried young women around with immeasurable amount of jealousy. After being sworn to office, Deputy Governor Moshisho took hold of his lovely son and sat between the outgoing governor, Nkedianye and his boss. Once in a while, Moshisho could be seen playing mimicking games with his son as his wife, Beatrice watched from a corner at the dais that was set aside for the dignitaries. With all the traps of power that go along with his office, Moshisho is said to be a down-to-earth person, who listens to everyone that seeks his help.     