 Hundreds of supporters of National Assembly Majority leader
Aden Duale yesterday flooded the streets to celebrate his reelection as the
Garissa Township MP. Constituency returning officer Boru Duba on
Wednesday night declared Duale
winner. The MP garnered 22,587 votes against his political opponent Farah Maalim's
14,897 votes. Others in the race were Aden Mohamed who garnered 135 votes and
Abdi Yare's 454. But Duale's celebrations had to wait until morning when his supporters marched through the streets
of Garissa town and its environs. Majority of the supporters were youth and women. The Garissa Township seat had generated a lot of
attention with Duale and Maalim being regarded as political bigwigs. Both had expressed
confidence of winning the seat. While Maalim had promised to give Duale a
"thrashing of his life" on the ballot, Duale said he would "dig six-foot political
grave". Addressing supporters and journalists at the
constituency tallying hall, Duale said the election was free, fair and transparent. Duale, who for the first time paraded his family in the limelight at the tallying centre. He has been camping at the tallying centre since Tuesday after he cast his vote. Maalim was represented by agents at the constituency tallying
hall. “I want to sincerely thank residents who
turned up in their thousands and braved the
scorching sun to exercise their democratic right. I promise to lead
without fear or favour, because Garissa Township is a cosmopolitan
constituency,” Duale said. “I appeal to all residents, both my supporters and those who supported my opponents, to join me
in moving our constituency to the next level in terms of development.” He was first elected into Parliament, in what was formerly known as Dujis constituency, in 2007 on the ODM ticket. Duale then ditched the party with Deputy President William Ruto and they formed
URP. During the campaigns with two antagonists being
prominent leaders who were also staunch defenders of their respective seats  