Sixty percent of Kenyans are opposed to legislation passed on sports gaming companies.According to research conducted by Trends and Insights for Africa (TIFA) from July 21-24, only 22 percent are in support of the legislation while 18 percent are neutral. The research was conducted in seven counties Nairobi, Uasin Gishu, Kisumu, Meru,Kakamega, Mombasa and Nyeri and saw 823 respondents over the age of 18 years interviewed. The new law stipulates that sports gaming companies will have to part with 35 percent tax on their income from January. This means 35 percent tax is imposed on sales before expenses are deducted. Thereafter, the gaming companies will pay another 30 percent tax on profits, bring the total taxation to 65 percent.On the contrary, all other companies in Kenya pay 30 percent tax on profit. The Law, which amounts to double taxation for the gaming companies, takes effect from January 1, 2018. Those opposed to the legislation say the new law will kill betting companies, local sports and create unemployment. Those in support of the taxation have described it as amoral issue, saying it will reduce gambling and protect the public from exploitation from betting companies. Besides, the move will also curb the mushrooming of betting companies in Kenya. Speaking at the function, Kenya Premier League (KPL) chief executive officer, Jack Oguda, said they are looking to set up meeting with the President to to have the law rescinded or shelved all together. &ldquo;We have lobby group among ourselves&mdash;football, rugby and boxing and we have been trying to set up meeting with the the Head of State to see what can be done aboutb the legislation,&rdquo; added Oguda. Stakeholder at the forum said there needs to be concerted effort between the gaming companies and federations in conjunction with the Ministry of Sports to address the issues raised on the high taxation. Betting firms have called for review of the tax law, failure to which may laed to mushrooming of illegal betting dens and collapse of sports fund.