ODM failed to win a parliamentary seat in Kisii and Nyamira
counties, in areas considered the party’s stronghold. However, the party won the senator and governor posts with
James Ongwae retaining in Kisii and John Nyagarama in Nyamira. Senior counsel Okong’o Omogeni clinched the senator’s seat
in Nyamira and former UN Habitat Ambassador Sam Ongeri winning in Kisii. The fielding of candidates by NASA affiliates appears to
have cost ODM in Kisii. Wiper, ANC, Ford Kenya and KNC all fielded candidates
for various seats in the county. Most NASA affiliate parties fielded defectors from ODM who
feared that the party may not conduct free and fair nominations. Zadoc Ogutu
who lost in the ODM nominations went on to win the Bomachoge Borabu seat as an
Independent. However, KNC which is led by former South Mugirango MP Manson
Nyamweya clinched two seats Alfah Miruka of Bomachoge Chache and Sylvanus Osoro
of South Mugirango. Osoro and Miruka are the youngest MPs to be elected in Kisii
County. Both of them are 34. Osoro defected from ODM fearing that nominations
would not be free and fair. In Nyaribari Chache, NASA affiliates fielded Chris Bichage (ODM),
Robert Monda (ANC), Rachel Otundo (KNC) and Zaheer Jhanda (Wiper). They lost to
Richard Tong’i of Jubilee who retained his seat. The story is the same story in all the constituencies in
Kisii and Nyamira counties. Jimmy Angwenyi and Tong’i were the only MPs
re-elected in the election which saw the emergence of fresh blood. "I defied the ODM wave to win in this semi cosmopolitan constituency," said Tong'i. Oroo Oyioka who served Bonchari for only six months in the
year 2014 reclaimed the seat on a PDP ticket with Innocent Momanyi of PDP beating
Stephen Manoti of JP in Bobasi constituency. In Nyaribari Masaba former provincial administrator Ezekiel
Machogu NAPK clinched the seat . In Nyamira, only one MP was re-elected. Ben
Momanyi survived the Jubilee wave to win the seat. Shadrack Mose of JP dethroned ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire
in Kitutu Masaba while Nyamira County Assembly speaker Joash Nyamoko won in
West Mugirango. Jerusha Momanyi was elected the woman rep also on a JP ticket. Vincent
Kemosi replaced James Gesami in West Mugirango according to provisional
results. Other bigwigs who lost in the elections in the region  were Charles Nyachae (Jubilee Party) and
Omingo Magara (KNC). The two were trounced by Ongeri. Nyamweya was also a
casualty losing his bid to become governor in Kisii County. Former EALA MP Joseph Kiangoi failed in his bid to become
Nyamira senator finishing a distant third.