New senators in North Rift counties have pledged to break with contentious past politics and work closely with governors. Most of the previous senators and governors in Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Pokot, Turkana and Uasin Gishu disagreed over management of county affairs. Nandi Senator-elect Samson Cherargei said he will work with Governor Stephen Sang to ensure devolution succeeds. “We have already agreed on basic issues like the fact that we should not entertain corruption, which has ruined development in our county,” Cherargei said. Agenda is to serve residents He said they have a common agenda to serve residents of Nandi. In West Pokot, Samwel Poghisio of Kanu made a political comeback by winning the Senate seat and he has a close relationship with Governor John Lonyangapuo, also from Kanu. “As a team we will open a new chapter in developing our county and that can only be achieved through unity,” Poghisio said during Lonyangapuo’s inauguration on Monday. Lonyangapuo was the former West Pokot senator and often differed with former Governor Simon Kachapin. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Governor Alex Tolgos, who have been reelected, have also agreed to put aside their differences and promised to work together to develop Elgeyo Marakwet. The two differed sharply in their first terms in office and Murkomen often criticised the governor’s development record. Murkomen supported outgoing Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui for governor during the Jubilee primary, widening the rift between the two leaders. But Tolgos survived the onslaught, clinching the Jubilee ticket and getting reelected. “Governor Tolgos and I have been friends since [our] school days. We used to play on these grounds. Tolgos played hockey in one corner and I played football in another,” Murkomen said during Tolgos’s swearing-in ceremony at St Patrick’s High School, Iten, on Monday. New alliances In Uasin Gishu, Senator-elect Margaret Kamar has also teamed up with reelected Governor Jackson Mandago to open a new chapter in the region. Outgoing Senator Isaac Melly was on bad terms with Mandago In Turkana, Senator-elect Malik Ekal is also a close ally of Governor Josphat Nanok, who was reelected. The two have pledged to work as a team. Nanok had a frosty relationship with outgoing Senator John Munyes, who unsuccessfully ran for governor.   