Security agencies in Garissa have arrested two people suspected of spreading hate speeches on social media. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamud Saleh on Friday said the two posted inflammatory comments that were likely to trigger violence between clans in the county. “As security apparatus in the region, we are closely monitoring any individual writing and posting inflammatory materials on social media,” he said. In the posts, the two had warned the county would witness a civil war in the event the election is "stolen" in favour of one clan. Saleh said they will soon be taken to court, to "act as an example to others who have the similar intentions." "You need to think twice before you post because the consequences are dire.’ He said they will ensure the election is conducted in a peaceful and environment across the region and where necessary, more security officers will be deployed. County IEBC coordinator Antony Njoroge said his request for more officers to man the electoral agency officials has been granted. In reference to the social media posts in the Garissa County Page, Njoroge said he is not taking chances and that is the reason he requested for more police officers. “I want to assure aspirants and residents that we are determined to conduct a free, fair and transparent election. In any case, the aspirants must invest heavily in agents for that particular day. There will nothing like ballot stuffing,” he said. Meanwhile, one of Garissa Governor Nathif Jama staffer is nursing serious gunshot wounds after an AP officer's gun accidentally discharged a bullet. The governor, who was in Sankuri on his way to Dertu met a group of hostile supporters of one of his rival, it is alleged the bodyguard attached to the governor tried to shoot in the air to disperse the crowd but accidentally shot the staffer in the pelvis. The injured staff was taken to Kenyatta National Hospital for specialised treatment. Area police boss Aron Moriasi, who confirmed the incident, said the victim was travelling in the same vehicle as the officer at the time of the incident.    