First of all, let me say that these opinion polls are being conducted by two different pollsters interviewing different people and this explains some of the differences they are giving us.Secondly, I think we need to think of the role of social media in influencing opinion.There is a lot of social media activity, some of which is not necessarily true and that could also influence opinion, depending on who is being targetted. Providing news on the social media platform does not necessarily mean that it is all true.I am of the view that the youth, which we must admit is not a homogeneous group of people, is very heterogeneous. They take the influence of social media to heart a lot.And, as a result of that, depending on who is being interviewed, those who read social media have the capacity to distinguish between the social effect of fake and genuine stories. This influences the poll results.There are many factors that have to be taken into account, but whether the polls could sway the undecided voters depends on people&rsquo;s political affiliations. That can influence voters in one way or another. So, it all depends on who the pollsters were talking to.We must also take into account the story about the attack at Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s home.There have also been intrigues about the role of military influence in the forthcoming election and the relevant revelations produced. These things can also influence people&rsquo;s decision on August 8.One has to be extremely careful about these polls. They should not be underestimated, neither should they be taken for the gospel truth. I think we should be a little bit cautious about these poll results and their objectives.What was the objectives of these pollsters? Were they just interested in getting what percentage each candidate would get if the election were held as per that time?I am 100 per cent sure, and I can say this with certainty, that the vast majority of voters have already decided on who of the two major presidential candidates they will vote for.The majority of Kenyans will base their decision on the assessment of the performance of the current government on a number of issues. The rest of the country will assess the Opposition on the basis of the alternative that they provide to the performance of the current government.Wanyande lectures at UoN