Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng'eno, ardent critic of Deputy President William Ruto,beat all the odds to retain his seat in a hotly contested poll. The results announced by returning officer Lilian Okoth put the Kanu candidate ahead. Ng'eno, garnered 16,098 votes against David Keter’s 13,707. Alvin Sang, an independent, got 63 votes.  John Bwogo of Maendeleo Chap Chap was fourth. In his victory speech, Ng'eno said the contest was one of the toughest. He saoid he was up against state machine "used to have me out by all means". “There are people who died and did not deserve to die just because of an election and competition. There were a lot of temptations, but God is good. I overcame them,” he said. He said the Jubilee administration, through Ruto and Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, fully funded his opponents "to ensure I was defeated, but all was in vain". “My people have spoken not because of petty things like handouts, but development that changes their lives. My tough stand on national issues made the DP to use all the means to ensure I'm not re-elected,” he said. In Narok North MP seat, incumbent Moitalel ole Kenta retained the seat after a tough battle with Jubilee’s Kaitikei Rotiken. Kenta, who is going for second term, got 33,303 votes. Rotiken got 24,309 votes, while Meitamei Oloo Dapash was third with 2,071 votes. Nelson Keshei, an independent, was fourth with 808 votes. Kenta thanked his constituents for giving him another chance as the MP, saying he will not let them down. “I'm happy for the win and I'll continue to fight for my people in every way,” he said. In Kilgoris constituency, Gideon Konchellah retained his seat for the fourth term after he defeated former Internal Security Minister Julius Sunkuli of Kanu. Konchellah garnered 23,812 votes against Sunkuli's 17,060 votes. Joel Kilele of Chama Cha Mashinani had 7,017 votes. Oiboo Morintat of ODM was fourth with 3,801. In Narok East, incumbent Ken Aramat of Jubilee won. He had 13,558 votes. Joseph Nkadado of CCM had 7,270 votes, while Alfred Keriolale of ODM had 7,038 votes, followed by Kapaya Torome, an independent, with 2,692 votes. Douglas Nkere of Kanu had 1,547 votes, PNU's Harun Lempaka had 731, while George Meshuko was seventh with 334 votes.