Mombasa governor hopeful Suleiman Shahbal has denied a property in Shanzu linked to him was being used as a training ground for KDF soldiers. The Jubilee candidate dismissed the allegations as ‘stupidity of the highest order’. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho had on Saturday claimed the premises, which used to house the Braeburn School, was being used by KDF soldiers as training ground in readiness for the general elections next Tuesday. On Tuesday, Shahbal said the premises is an ordinary college which will be used to train 600 Mombasa youth on various technical skills right after next Tuesday’s general elections. “We had made these arrangements a longtime ago, but we it was to start immediately after the elections,” said Shahbal. He spoke at the Tononoka ground in Mombasa as he inspected it for Wednesday’s final Jubilee rally before next Tuesday’s polls. “The place is a peaceful environment. It is a college we have started. That is just stupid worry (from Joho). There are rumours with a basis and baseless rumours. Those are baseless rumours,” said Shahbal. On Saturday, Joho had demanded an explanation on the activities in the premises from the government. He said food had been seen being taken in and out of the compound, which had been frequented by individuals suspected to be soldiers. "The government should come clean and explain what is happening," Joho said on Saturday during a press conference at his office. "What we want is a free and fair election," the ODM deputy party leader said. His sentiments came on the backdrop of claims of rigging plans by Jubilee made by NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Raila had on Friday alleged that about 226 military men were being trained to help rig the elections in favour of the ruling party. On Tuesday, Shahbal said such rigging plans would not have been made in open if the allegations were true. “That is poor politics, which we have heard so many times from our governor here in Mombasa,” said the Jubilee governor candidate. He said the allegations show that Joho has run out of policy ideas and is now riding on propaganda.    