There will be tight races for 10 MP seats in the North Rift among Jubilee, independents and candidates of other parties. DP William Ruto, campaigning in Nandi on Monday, asked voters to reject the independent candidates, saying they will reduce Jubilee’s numbers in Parliament. But quite a few voters say they will vote for individual candidates, not parties. Jubilee and independents are contesting seats in Aldai, Emgwen and Chesumei. Aspirants there had complained of flawed and rigged Jubilee primaries. Aldai MP Cornel Serem is battling Sammy Choge who has campaigned extensively. In Chesumei, Wilson Kogo of Jubilee will face Paul Kibichiy. Kogo defeated Kibichiy alongside incumbent Elijah Lagat to win the JP ticket. In Emgwen constituency, MP Alex Kosgey of Jubilee is seeking reelection in a tight race with former athlete Wilfred Bungei. “I moved to vie as an independent candidate because the Jubilee primaries were seriously flawed. “But now residents of Emgwen will have a chance to decide in a fair and free manner,” Bungei said. In Uasin Gishu, a battle is expected between Ainabkoi MP Samuel Chepkonga and independent William Chepkut. Chepkut won the first round of JPprimaries, but a repeat was ordered in one polling station where he lost by less than 100 votes. Opinion polls indicate Chepkut is slightly ahead of Chepkonga. “They may have snatched the ticket from me, but the people of Ainabkoi will have the final say,” Chepkut said. The seat in Turbo, home to DP Ruto, is hotly contested by Jubilee candidate Kevin Okwara and independent Janet Rotich. Okwara received a boost when Ruto publicly campaigned for him on Tuesday in Eldoret. Jubilee candidate for the Soy seat in Uasin Gishu, Caleb Kostany, is also in a tight race with Kanu candidate Jonathan Bii. Bii is running for the third time and says he is confident he will win. Kanu is also battling for other seats in the region where it has fielded many candidates. In Elgeyo Marakwet, ODM candidate for Keiyo South Micah Kigen is also giving JP’s Kamlesh Rono a run for his money.