All seven rebel MCAs in the Mombasa assembly lost in the General Election. In 2013, all the MCAs were elected on the ODM ticket. However, in mid-2015, some MCAs became rebellious and started opposing Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s administration. The rebels bragged that they had at least 15 MCAs in their camp. Joho, however, continued to earn the support of the majority in the assembly. In the run-up to this years’ election, however, some of the rebel MCAs —among them former Kadzandani MCA Mohammed Ndanda — made a U-turn and returned to Joho’s camp. Seven MCAs — Jabess Oduor (Kongowea), Riziki Fundi (Bamburi), Duncan Onyango (Mikindani), Mohammed Madundo (Shika Adabu), Paul Onje (Junda) and Naser Rashid (Ganjoni) — have been shown the door by newcomers.  Sent home Oduor had decamped to Wiper and declared interest in the Mombasa senator seat. He was defeated in the primary and decided to run as an independent. Oduor was among the 10 candidates who were badly defeated in the Senate race by veteran lawyer Mohammed Faki of ODM. The Kongowea MCA seat has been taken by another newcomer — 38-year-old Abrari Mohammed of ODM. Fundi and Onyango had also ditched ODM and pledged allegiance to Wiper. The two had endorsed Hassan Omar for Mombasa governor. Onyango was key in ensuring a section of the Luo community endorsed Omar a few weeks before the polls. This despite a backlash from some Luos. Fundi and Onyango lost their seats to Robert Nyiro and Renson Thoya, both of ODM. An official within the Mombasa government, who asked not to be named, told the Star Joho had to ensure ODM fielded strong candidates against those who had opposed his administration. “Our plan has worked. They are all out in the cold now,” the official said.  Newcomers, youth and more women Onje, Madundo and Rashid have now been replaced by newcomers, Raphael Bwire, Mwalimu Hamadi and Priscilla Mumba, respectively. They are all of ODM. The new Mombasa assembly has 27 members elected on the ODM ticket. Wiper and Ford Kenya have one member each. An independent was also elected. The three are Kipevu MCA Faith Mwende (Wiper), Majengo MCA Ahmed Khamis (Ford Kenya) and Feddis Mbura (independent) of Mwakirunge ward. Charles Kitula of Frere Town and Bwire (Junda) are the youngest MCAs, aged 26 and 27 years, respectively. Mombasa elected six women MCAs — Mwende, Mbura, Mumba, Lucy Chizi (Mtopanga), Maimuna Salim (Shanzu) and Mwaka Mwamguno of Timbwani. In the last assembly there were only two elected women MCAs — Chizi and Salim. Mumba was a nominated MCA.