With the declaration of Uhuru Kenyatta as the President-elect by the IEBC Presidential Returning Officer on Friday last week, he must be thinking of how to re-organise his Cabinet and the whole government. Uhuru&rsquo;s first task should be to respond to questions about his legacy.If there is anything Uhuru should do to safeguard his legacy, it is to be different from his first term in office in addressing the issue of inclusivity and confronting the fears that Kenyan communities have around discrimination and exclusion. He should attempt to be the biblical Paul who changed from Saul. The President should give priority to bringing Kenyans together and fostering the principle of inclusivity, which is a requirement under Article 10(2) of the Constitution of Kenya.The principle of inclusivity has been in our Constitution since 2010, but the President did not give its implementation his best. The President may want to increase the number of Cabinet Secretaries to 22 and give it a Face of Kenya aspect. Kenyans should also see the face of the Cabinet as representing them. Inclusivity should address appointments in all sectors and levels of government. It should also address equity in distribution of government projects and services. The government should stop the habit of rushing to launch projects in a last-minute rush to sway votes in regions perceived not to be their strongholds.The cost of living is another important area of focus for him. Article 43 of the Constitution of Kenya provides that every person has the right to the highest attainable standards of health, accessible and adequate housing and to being free from hunger, and to have adequate food of acceptable quality. The cost of living in Kenya should live up to our aspirations in the Constitution and anything short of that will be defined as failure on the part of the government of the day. The other focus area should be to address the unprecedented runaway graft scandals in his first term. Corruption requires his objective cooperation with the investigative, prosecutorial and adjudication agencies. He must make this his priority agenda. Kenyans wants to see increased conviction rates not statistics about how many cases are under investigation or cases dropped for lack of evidence.The national government allocation to the counties should be increased from today&rsquo;s 40% to 45%.His legacy will be incomplete without addressing the upsurge of insecurity in Kenya. Ambasa is a political scientist