The opposition has announced it will resist the ‘accept and move on’ mantra as it calls for a countrywide Thursday justice prayer vigil against vote theft. At the same time, it accused Jubilee MPs and allied lawyers of intimidating Supreme Court judges by their comments against NASA’s petition. ODM, a NASA affiliate party, said any move to push them into moving on will be resisted strongly by Kenyans. Party chairman John Mbadi said the battle to liberate Kenya from vote stealing has nothing to do with NASA candidate Raila Odinga but a battle between candidate Uhuru Kenyatta and the people of Kenya. “On Thursday, we will assemble here at Orange House to pray for justice and an end to the culture of electoral theft that is taking root in our country,” the Suba South MP said yesterday at Orange House. The party urged supporters to converge on their respective areas and observe the Thursday vigil and show solidarity until justice is done. He was with Narok Senator-elect Ledama ole Kina, MPs-elect Jared Okelo (Nyando), Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga) and Caleb Amisi (Saboti). “The streets might be quiet now. But Jubilee must not misread this. It is a deceptive calm. We will resist and we are asking our people to be prepared to resist and the process begins today,” Mbadi said. ODM also warned Jubilee MPs and politicians from pre-empting the NASA case before the Supreme Court. Immediately after filing their voluminous petition last week, a number of Jubilee MPs and allied lawyers poked holes into the petition, terming it a weak case. “I have read NASA’s petition and their prayers. There is nothing to worry. The truth will set us free. We in Jubilee, we will wait for the Supreme Court verdict in the next few days and we shall abide,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator-elect Kipchumba Murkomen tweeted a day after NASA filed their petition. Okelo said Murkomen’s statement is careless and urged Jubilee to leave it to the Supreme Court’s seven-judge Bench to decide. “Any kind of intimidation will be prejudicial. We wouldn’t want to delve into issues, which, at the end of the day, present injustice to the Kenyan people. The case, as far as we are concerned, is strong. Evidence together with sworn affidavits, if properly appraised, is enough to disturb Uhuru Kenyatta and send him home,” he said. Mbadi said the attacks on the case amounts to intimidation of the Judiciary. “Jubilee has started using their surrogates to intimidate the Judiciary with people who have never represented any case in court poking holes in our case,” he said in reference to Murkomen.