A senator loser has filed a petition to the IEBC to nullify the results of the Wajir governor-elect and senator-elect, saying the election was not free and fair. In his petition, Adow Mohammed Abikar, who
ran on the Kanu ticket, says the two won through "fraud, theft and coercion", and their wins do not reflect the will of Wajir voters. "The results declared by the IEBC show that I lost,
narrowly, to Abdullahi Ibrahim Ali of Jubilee Party. Yet, this was a sham and
stolen election. A recount, proper audit of the ballot and forms 34A would bring
the outcome as desired by the people of Wajir," he said in a press
briefing in Nairobi
yesterday. Ali garnered 35,393 votes while Abikar came second with
26,769. Others in the race were Abdirahman Adan of ODM who got 19,096 votes, ANC's Hussein Abdi who had 16,745 votes, EFP's Warsame Hussein who got 946 votes and Abdia Hassan who had 884 votes. Abikar says there was no security for ballot
papers, and extra ballots were in circulation. He says he has the evidence. Abikar says his agents were denied access to a
number of polling centres. "This gave my competitors ripe ground to doctor
the results in his [Ali's] favour. We refuse to be party to the fictitious poll results,"
he says in his petition. Abikar, who was with hundreds of Wajir
residents, also questioned Governor-elect Mohamed Abdi Mahamud's education qualification. Mahamud beat former Governor Ahmed
Abdullahi Mohamad by about 13,000 votes. Abikar says Mahamud's academic papers have been a subject of
controversy in the past. "Yet this is a prerequisite for anyone seeking
the gubernatorial seat. We've already written to the IEBC and the criminal
investigations department to unravel this pertinent issue," he said. On
Tuesday, Abdi, a former ambassador to Saudi Arabia, urged residents to put politics aside and
shift their focus on developing the county. “I want extend an olive branch to my worthy competitors to join me in
developing our great county that is faced with a myriad of challenges. We can
only do a lot if we are united,” she said.