A flurry of election petitions is expected to
be filed after losers rejected the General Election results released by the
IEBC in Kisii county. Already, Zaheer Jhanda of Nyaribari Chache
and Migos Ogamba of Kitutu Chache North have rejected the results. The two said
they are consulting with their lawyers with the aim of petitioning the results. “I’m weighing my options with a view to
seeking redress in court. There was massive manipulation and voter bribery across
the constituency. The people voted and we must give them leadership,” said
Ogamba, a Nairobi advocate who contested on the ODM ticket. He said in several polling stations where he
did not have agents, his votes were manipulated. In the results released by the
IEBC, Jimmy Angwenyi of JP emerged winner, with 16, 121 votes, with Ogamba 
finishing second with 6,786 votes. In Nyaribari Chache, Jhanda termed the
results an outright robbery. “The people of Nyaribari defied religion, clans
and race to vote for me. Their will must be respected,” said the Kenyan of
Indian origin. He lost to Nyagaka Tong’i. Tong’i garnered 14,140, beating Jhanda to
second place with 11,710, while former MP Chris Bichage was third with 10,440
and another former area MP, Robert Monda, was fourth with 8,105 votes. “I have spoken to four other candidates and
we have agreed to file a joint petition. The people’s voice must be respected
because they resoundingly voted Tong’i out,” added the youthful politician. He
claimed that his agents were bribed in the entire Kiogoro ward. “I have not
been able to reach them up to now,” he added. Others expected to file election petitions
include former MPs Joel Onyancha (Bomachoge Chache) and Zebedeo Opore
(Bonchari). At the same time, Tong’i said he won fairly. “People voted for me across the constituency,
defying the strong NASA wave in this region, which was considered their
stronghold. My worthy opponents should accept defeat and join me in developing
the constituency,” added Tong’i. Havi is a lawyer 