NASA government will construct a bridge across the Likoni channel starting next year, Raila Odinga has said. Raila on Friday accused the Jubilee government of purchasing two new ferries at a cost of Sh2.1 billion saying it is a waste of resources. Speaking during the final NASA rally in Mombasa ahead of Tuesday’s general elections, Raila dismissed the new ferries as ‘rubbish’. Transport CS James Macharia on Thursday received the first of the two ferries, christened MV Jambo. It is set to be launched today (Saturday) by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I have heard that Uhuru is coming to launch a ferry here. That ferry is rubbish,” said Raila. Read: [PHOTOS] Song, dance at MV Jambo's maiden trip on Likoni channel Raila said the only solution to address the congestion at the Likoni channel is to construct a bridge. He said the Jubilee government should have been commissioning a bridge across the channel instead of buying new ferries. Mombasa residents have had to endure frequent breakdowns of the old ferries and have been calling on the government to construct a bridge at the channel instead. Read: [VIDEO] Ferry breaks down with passengers on board, pushed by tides towards deep sea On Thursday, Macharia said plans are at advanced stage to establish a cable car transport system across the Likoni channel. The project is set to start within three months, Macharia told journalists while receiving the MV Jambo at the Likoni channel. Read: Cable cars to ease traffic at Likoni crossing channel He said the government is still working on plan start construct a bridge, but that is a long term project. On Friday, Raila said NASA will build a bridge, which will be 50 metres high, across the channel, allowing enough space for big ships to pass under it. “That work will start next year,” said Raila. Read: Build bridge over Likoni Channel He said while he was Roads minister he had brought experts to survey the area with a view to establishing the feasibility of constructing a bridge. “The bridge will start at the Old Kilindini port going all the way to Shika Adabu,” said Raila. He said it was also wrong to give a contract for the construction of the two ferries to a Turkish company yet there is a Kenyan company, Africa Marine, which could easily have constructed the ferries at a cheaper rate. “Shame on him,” said Raila. He said the Ugandan government contracted African Marine to construct the MV Albert for them yet the Kenyan government is giving out such tenders to foreign firms. “That is Jubilee. Shame on Jubilee,” said Raila.  