In mid-2012, as Americans prepared for the presidential election, President Barack Obama was forced to fold his sleeves and hit the campaign trail as approval ratings dropped. The midterm elections had not gone the Democrats way, the US economy was struggling and his core base was uneasy. Many predicted that Obama would not win, and if he did the margin would be too slim. Obama had to go back to his core base and explain there was a lot his government had done, but admitted that more needed to be done. He reassured them that he was not going to drop the ball any time soon, especially not when he was headed for a second term. The rest, as they say, is history. Back home, in late 2016, most of us were uneasy as a wave of apathy appeared to be sweeping the Mt Kenya region. We knew this was not good news for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Even though the election was months away, we were unsettled. Last December in this column I urged Uhuru to go back home and reassure his core supporters. Many felt he had concentrated too much on other parts of the country and neglected them. Today, there is a sense of ownership of the Uhuru presidency among the voters in Mt Kenya. They have proven it with their enthusiasm as he explained what he has done, what he is doing and the plan ahead during his visits, which have increased in the past couple of months. ‘Tano Tena’ is a major rallying call in Central. Residents have not only seen the difference the Uhuru administration has made, but have equally felt it in every corner. Like all other Kenyans, the people of this core vote bloc for Uhuru understand the foundation has been laid and he has a plan, which qualifies him for a second term. Women are eager to try the one-year government sponsored post-natal health scheme for them and their newborns. They, alongside their husbands, look forward to the comprehensive free secondary education that is on the cards for them in Uhuru’s second term. Young people, like millions of others across the country, are excited about the planned paid internship once they leave college. They know that unlike the past, employers will not shun them because of lack of experience, even when they are academically qualified. Like millions of Kenyans, Uhuru’s core base is looking forward to the continued expansion of infrastructure, including but not limited to, roads and electricity. Expansion of road networks has improved transportation, while electricity has aided small businesses. Farmers across Central are looking forward to further reduced costs of farm inputs that will help increase food production. They are also looking forward to improved access to markets through improved infrastructure as well as a vibrant business-enabling environment. Voters in Central, and all Kenyans that have seen the transformation by Jubilee, must come out in large numbers and vote for Uhuru’s reelection. We must allow continuity and ensure that the foundation that has been laid does not go to waste through unnecessary change of guard. Just as we came out in large numbers in 2013 to deny politicians who lack focus for the country, we must ensure we do the same next week. The apathy that was simmering was due to much that we had not seen, but the President made sure he personally explained to us what he was doing. Uhuru Tano Tena!