Governors Amason Kingi and Salim Mvurya have retained their respective seats after the just concluded general election. ODM's Kingi beat Jubilee's Gideon Mung'aro with 280,686 votes compared with 56,447 votes. Returning officer Nelly Ilongo also handed certificates to ODM's Gertrude Mbeyu and Steward Madzayo who won the Kilifi woman rep and Senate seats respectively. Mbeyo floored eight other candidates, garnering 170,868 votes. Madzayo also beat Jubilee's Kenya Nyale with 209,004 votes compared with 61,986 votes. The Opposition party went on to win all the seven parliamentary seats and 27 out of 35 county seats, maintaining their hold on the region. In Kwale, Mvurya retained his seat with 119,680 votes, while Wiper's Chirau Mwakwere came a distant second with 29,741 votes. Mvurya, who ditched ODM last year, congratulated President Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election. "With collaboration, we will get changes and open Kwale's economy," he said. Read: Mwakwere demands repeat polls as Mvurya retains Kwale seat ODM managed to retake the Senate seat after Issa Boy won with 72,275 votes. Immediate former woman rep Zainab Chidzuga lost the woman representative seat to ODM's Zuleikha Juma. The two maintained their support of Opposition leader Raila Odinga but said they will work with all leaders to ensure Kwale residents get services as expected. NEWCOMER IN TANA RIVER The Opposition was also victorious in Tana River where its candidate Dhadho Godhana won the governor seat. Godhana defeated the incumbent Hussein Dado with a small margin of 1,492 votes. IEBC returning officer Mohamed Gonjobe said 74.06 per cent of registered voters turnout out for the exercise on August 8. Ghodana pledged to unite the communities and improve their standards of living. "I will form an all-inclusive government and tap into local human resource potential," he said. Hundreds
of his supporters immediately took to the streets of Hola to celebrate his
victory. The
immediate former Governor is yet to concede and left without addressing the media. He had earlier complained that some of his votes were not included
in the final tally.