A letter from the Education ministry to Bridge International Academies has sparked more confusion over the government’s approach to the new regulations on low-cost education schools. Having first been discussed in 2009, the Alternative Provision of Basic Education and Training (APBET) guidelines were launched in March last year by Education CS Fred Matiang’i. They sought to provide a path for registration of low-fee private and community schools. When they first opened in October 2009, prior to the release of the APBET guidelines, Bridge International Academies had written to the Education ministry about the registration of its schools, indicating that it was keen to operate schools in informal settlements and other pockets of poverty to provide quality education to populations previously underserved by the few available public schools or unreached. This was not unusual. There are hundreds of thousands of schools of this type operating across Kenya and, at last estimate, nearly two million children receive an education in them. At the time, the Education ministry sent out its officers to inspect Bridge’s first academy at Mukuru Kwa Njenga, who saw the high-quality education being offered and the enthusiasm of the local community. After the visit, the then PS Mohammed Abdullahi wrote that Bridge met all the criteria set by the ministry for a non-formal school. The letter also indicated that the Education ministry at the time had not yet decided the process by which non-formal schools could be registered, and instead advised Bridge to seek registration with other government departments, such as the Social Services ministry or the Attorney General. The letter further stated that the ministry would register non-formal education institutions once the Non-Formal Education policy framework was finalised. At the time, the term non-formal school was synonymous with APBET schools. As such, this framework for non-formal schools became the APBET guidelines, which were finally launched nearly a decade later in March last year. However, the path to registration in Kenya has been convoluted. In 2013, the reference to “non-formal school” was assigned a different meaning under the Basic Education Act. But according to Bridge, the ministry has not initiated a sensitisation programme for implementation of the APBET guidelines as a path for registration of APBET schools, thus rendering the regulations ineffective. “To our knowledge no single APBET school has been registered since the guidelines were released for implementation,” Bridge customer experience director Reuben Wambugu said. SHIFTING GOAL POSTS Fast-forward to June this year and the confusion and inconsistency within the ministry becomes clear. A June 29 letter sent to Bridge from Pius Mutisya, director of Education Standards and Quality Assurance, has once again raised the question of what is an APBET school, and thrown into question the ministry’s previous designation of Bridge as such. Mutisya’s letter surprisingly states that Bridge Academies do not fall under APBET descriptions. The letter notes that 30 per cent of teachers in Bridge and other non-formal schools must be trained in recognised teacher training colleges and also be registered with the Teachers Service Commission within three years, even as the rest of the 70 per cent of teachers continue to undertake the in-service training. Bridge says it has made great strides in line with its commitments under a proposed roadmap it presented to the ministry in May last year at the behest of the Cabinet Secretary. It (Bridge) has around 1,500 P1 teachers and 300 academies that meet the 30 per cent trained teacher threshold, as required under the APBET guidelines. In November last year, Bridge initiated the training and induction of almost 900 P1 teachers as a result of a recruiting campaign that was widely reported in the media. The ministry letter is regarded by Bridge as inconsistent with the ministry’s previous policy on Bridge. Bridge’s legal counsel, Antony Mugodo, said it has taken seven years for the ministry to finalise on the APBET guidelines, and throughout the consultative process, Bridge was a participant on invitation by the ministry. Mugodo notes that prior to the launch of the guidelines in March last year, Bridge met Matiang’i in February, where he personally directed that Mutisya establish a ministerial committee to work on Bridge’s compliance as per the roadmap agreed with the ministry. “It is on the basis of the CS’s directive that Bridge has been filing monthly reports on its compliance progress since June 2016,” Mugodo said. He said the ministry’s response through the Education Standards director on the most recent submission is both inconsistent and confusing, when the progress and engagement between the ministry and the organisation is considered. In the same letter, while Mutisya dismisses Bridge as not being part of APBET schools, he concludes with what appears to be a contradiction of his assertion that Bridge schools don’t fall under APBET. He says: “County Education Boards are the ones supposed to decide which schools fall under APBET and which are private.” Questions also abound on the motives behind a leaked ministerial letter being shared with an NGO known as The East African Centre for Human Rights (EACH), often affiliated with trade union groups. There has been much discussion by Education International lobby group and teachers’ unions in Kenya, who are campaigning against schools such as Bridge in Kenya and spending a lot of money doing so. There’s suspicion their money and influence has reached some of the most influential offices. The Education ministry’s Sector Report 2017/18-2019/20 programme performance review, as of 2015, shows that the ministry has registered 479 APBET and Non-Formal Education Centres, with Sh400 million disbursed to benefit 146,000 learners in all registered APBET/NFE schools. Despite these indications, there is no evidence of a single school registered under APBET. Bafflingly, the same report indicates the government has been giving capitation grants to registered non-formal schools, and a Sh100 million was disbursed to 430 APBET Institutions with an enrolment of 129,448 pupils. WHAT RESULTS SHOW An independent gaze at Bridge schools reveals that pupils excel. Results obtained from the 2015 KCPE exams indicates that 63 per cent of Bridge pupils passed, compared to the national passing rate of 49 per cent. The results from 2016 were similar, as the Bridge passing rate of 59 per cent once again significantly exceeded the national rate of 49 per cent. According to the APHRC 2017 report on Urban Informal Settlements, access to quality of education is one of the key challenges in the education system. With increased accessibility to schooling after the introduction of Free Primary Education policy in 2003, the result was a spike in enrolment. The study recommended that the government explores a public-private partnership in education services to ensure access to quality education for all, especially disadvantaged groups. Continuous classroom-based support for teachers and setting of measurable annual teaching and learning goals should be also be entrenched in primary schools.