Kiambu residents are collecting signatures to impeach the new woman representative after she opposed a gazetted pay cut and called for nearly Sh100,000 more a month. Members of Parliament are scheduled to be sworn in on Tuesday. During a live interview on NTV on Wednesday, Muchomba said that if Wanjiku wants MPs to perform well, they must be paid well as they used their personal resources to campaign. “If you want wa Muchomba to look decent like a woman representative surely you must pay me well. There is no greed evaluated to show whatever the MPs are getting is not equivalent to our gross domestic product,” she said. Muchomba said she is uncomfortable with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission’s salary cut as it demotivates people from doing what they would have loved to do best. “I have invested heavily on human resource issues and if they are appreciated well they will perform. Let’s slash or add salaries using the right procedures. Let’s not play hide and seek games, and I want to be paid well and honoured for who I am,” she said. Residents started to collect signatures for her impeachment, saying she has disappointed Kiambu people for her “greed” and yet she had not yet been sworn in or worked to prove she deserves to be paid well. Petition to sack muchomba Forms for collecting signatures were dropped in many social gathering places and at chiefs’ camps in the county. Residents said they will stop her swearing in. Muchomba was trolled on social media platforms, such as the United States of Kiambu Facebook page that has more than 180,000 members. Some members said she does not deserve to lead Kiambu people as her agenda is to make money rather than represent residents. “Can we get serious about this issue? How many wards does Kiambu have? Can we get 20k signatures per ward? We need a million signatures ,right? Can we have people volunteering per ward? Can we sensitise on the reasons why? Let us not offer empty threats. We need to be fearless over corruption. We must not entertain such greed. The year 2022 is too far off,” a member said. Another said, “You applied for a job knowing that SRC made changes to the package. You are elected to SERVE Kenyans. If you don’t like it, resign.” SRC chairperson Sarah Serem in July slashed the salaries of the President, Deputy President, speakers and Parliamentarians. The pay cuts will save taxpayers Sh8.8 billion annually. Yesterday, Muchomba apologised saying she deserved more money.