Five MPs in Kakamega county defending their seats on the Jubilee ticket appeared to be headed for victory, contrary to expectations. They are Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali, Navakholo’s Emmanuel Wangwe, Malava’s Moses Injendi, Ben Washiali of Mumias East and Matungu’s David Were. In Ikolomani, Shinali led with 13,297 votes against ANC’s Khamisi Butichi’s 12,285. In Mumias East, incumbent Washiali was ahead with 11,901 votes against David Wamatsi of ANC, who had 8,086. Wangwe led in Navakholo with 14,804 votes against his close rival Amisi Omukanda of Maendeleo Democratic Party. Malulu Injendi was ahead of Ford Kenya’s Burudi Manyasi with 15,904 votes against his rival’s 14,188. Were trailed ANC’s Justus Murunga and Ford Kenya’s Peter Nabulindo in third position in Matungu. Political analyst Martin Oloo yesteday said the aspirants’ success can be attributed to their efforts as individuals, not their party affiliation. “Shinali, Malulu and Washiali were strong candidates in themselves and their development record worked in their favour,” he said. Oloo said NASA’s campaign strategy to field multiple candidates for one seat resulted in internal cannibalism, which worked against the opposition and favoured their Jubilee rivals. Lack of agreement hurts nasa “If NASA agreed on a single candidate for each seat, it would have eclipsed Jubilee,” he said. During campaigns, JP doled out goodies to constituencies where it was fielding candidates. ANC candidates Ayub Savula, Titus Khamala, Aseka Miradi, Tindi Mwale and Justus Murunga led in Lugari, Lurambi, Khwisero, Butere and Matungu constituencies respectively. ODM was only ahead in Likuyani and Lugari constituencies. Kakamega has 12 constituencies. Meanwhile, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya was headed for a landslide victory. Oparanya, who is also ODM deputy leader, was leading by more than 200,000 votes by 4.40pm against his closest contender and outgoing Senator Boni Khalwale. IEBC provisional results indicated Oparanya was leading with 312,812 votes against Khalwale’s 125,558 after tallying results from 1,232 polling stations out of the 1,497. ANC’s Michael Osundwa had 7, 220 votes. In the Senate race, ANC’s Cleophas Malala and ODM’s Seth Panyako were engaged in a neck and neck race. Malala was leading with 194,427 votes against Panyako’s 164,207 voted. Jubilee’s Stanley Livondo had 41,966 votes. In May, Oparanya accused Khalwale of being behind the Senate push to bar him from the August 8 polls. The Senate Public Accounts Committee had ordered action be taken against Oparanya for snubbing its summons to appear before it and answer audit queries. But Oparanya said the Senate has no powers to bar any candidate from contesting.