A young woman has revealed the details of her painful struggle with a condition that leaves her constantly sexually aroused.Amanda McLaughlin, 23, from the US, has lived with the problem for 10 years and says she has to beg her fiance JoJo for sex every day to relieve her symptoms.The condition, called persistent genital arousal disorder (PGAD), causes pain in her legs and pelvis that is so bad she is unable to work and rarely leaves her home.Now McLaughlin has spoken of her ordeal as part of a documentary for BBC Three's Living Differently. "It's not fun to be aroused all the time," she said. "It feels like you're about to orgasm and then it never goes away."McLaughlin's symptoms began when she was just 13 years old but she was not diagnosed with PGAD until six years later.Her mother Victoria admitted that she and her family did not understand her daughter's condition at first."When she first became sexually active she was having sex a lot," she said. "My whole family just thought she was a w****. I doubted her completely - I still feel guilty."McLaughlin said: "Relationships are really hard to keep with this problem."But he never once has judged me, he never made me feel bad about working. It was love at first sight."She added that her condition affects the couple's sex life 'tremendously'."You'd think that you could have sex and it would just go away, but it doesn't," she said. "Sometimes I will be crying and begging him to have sex with me just to relieve some of the pressure that I have down there." JoJo said: "When she first told me I didn't know how to feel about it but I liked her so I was prepared to jump in."The more I can learn, the more I can help her. I'll help her so she can get anything she needs."Amanda currently takes 30 different types of medications to ease the pain caused by her condition. She also uses ice 'inserts' to ease her pelvic swelling.Assistant professor of neurology at Michigan University Dr Priyanka Gunta, who is currently treating McLaughlin, said: "Because it's such a rare diagnosis and there's been such little research we don't know exactly what causes it. We suspect it's multifactorial."I don't have a quick cure for this but we're going to be trying a few different therapies. I'm very hopeful that we can get her functioning better."