Wiper was dealt a blow in Machakos in the just-concluded election after provisional results showed it had lost two main county seats and four parliamentary posts. The party lost the governor, Senate, Machakos, Mwala, Yatta and Kangundo parliamentary seats. Maendeleo Chap Chap’s Alfred Mutua retained his governor seat, while Boniface Kabaka of CCU won the Senate race. “This was not a competition between me and Hon Wavinya Ndeti, but between me and Hon Kalonzo Musyoka. Wavinya was his pet project,” Mutua said at a press conference yesterday. He continued, “It was a competition between the improvement of lives and the politics of misery and poverty. Competition between the struggling masses who want maendeleo in a chap chap manner and the rich elite who wish to maintain the status quo.” Mutua said he is focussed on development, not the “politics of sycophancy”. The Machakos MP seat was won by Victor Munyaka of the Jubilee Party, Mwala by Vincent Musyoka of Maendeleo Chap Chap, Kangundo by Fabiani Kyule on the Muungano Party ticket and Yatta by Charles Kilonzo, who was an independent. By 2.30pm yesterday, Mutua had 53 per cent of the votes in 1,261 of the 1,332 of the polling stations. His closest rival Wavinya Ndeti of Wiper had 44.5 per cent of votes. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and the NASA brigade launched a vigorous campaign for Ndeti. Kalonzo had said he would teach Mutua a lesson by ensuring a woman governor is elected. Mutua and Kalonzo fell out in early 2014 after the governor started his own political movement seen to be in direct competition with Wiper. The rivalry got worse after Mutua went ahead to endorse the reelection bid of President Uhuru Kenyatta, even after Kalonzo and all other leaders in the region had declared support for then Cord leader Raila Odinga. Mutua was seen a traitor and Wiper sought to cut him to size. He faced hostile crowds in parts of the county during his campaigns. It is yet to be determined whether his win for a second term will have any impact on Kalonzo’s political career. Ndeti had a tough battle in her bid to get the Wiper ticket. In June, the IEBC’s disputes tribunal nullified Wavinya Ndeti’s nomination as Wiper’s candidate saying a complaint against her was valid. MCA Peter Kyalo had filed a petition saying Ndeti is a member of Wiper Party led by Kalonzo Musyoka and her Chama Cha Uzalendo. She was in an out of court, but was finally cleared to run. During her campaigns, Ndeti became famous for her jumbled phrase, “Yaliyondwele sipite”. The right phrase is, ‘yaliyopita si ndwele, ganga yajayo’ [what has passed is not a solution, get a remedy for the future.