Nyeri leaders have vowed to work as a team for the sake of development. The newly elected leaders promised to work with Governor Wahome Gakuru. They include Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina, Nyeri women representativeRahab Mukami and MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Gathiaka Kiai (Mukurwe-ini) and Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu). They said they want to start with a clean slate and end persistent wrangles. Speaking during Gakuru’s inauguration in Nyeri town on Monday, the MPs said they have learnt a lesson from their squabbling predecessors. The MPs and MCAs fought with former Governor Nderitu Gachagua for four years. “These people you see praising you today will send you home if you let them down. They want development and not empty talk,” Rigathi said. Maina said the large number jobless youth in the county is worrying. “Let us be servants of the people. We must improve our county and ensure that it shines, since this is a government of the people, by the people,” Wambugu said. Mwangi and Kiai said the leaders have no option but to work together. “Our mandate to the people of Nyeri is to ensure development, accountability and transparency. Our county must shine at the national and international level,” Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga said. Mukami said the governor must ensure professionals, the clergy and the business community are brought on board in the government. ICT CS Joe Mucheru and Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri were present. Outgoing Governor Samuel Wamathai skipped. Wamathai took over the seat, which fell vacant following the death of Governor Gachagua in a London hospital in February. He had been suffering for cancer for two years. Gachagua was a man of nine lives like the proverbial cat and was the first governor to die in office. In September last year, 32 out of the 46 Nyeri county assembly members voted to impeach Gachagua on grounds of abuse of office, gross violation of the Constitution in procurement, gross misconduct and corruption. This marked the climax of wrangles that had been ongoing for years between the MCAs and the governor. However, the Senate overturned the impeachment. Nyeri MPs did not work with him.