President Uhuru Kenyatta is to campaign in Eldoret a few days after Governor Jackson Mandago supported a NASA ward candidate to face a Jubilee candidate in Uasin Gishu.
Mandago has endorsed Charles Okumu of ODM against Francis Muya of Jubilee for the Langas MCA seat.
Tomorrow Uhuru holds a final rally in the region at 64 Stadium, where NASA leaders backed Mandago.
The Mandago-NASA partnership aims at winning pro-opposition communities in Eldoret to back Mandago, while the governor backs NASA to win MCA seats and presidential votes.
“We are in Jubilee, but playing Uasin Gishu politics to ensure all tribes are in our leadership,” Mandago said.
The governor denied he had defected to NASA.
Mandago met the Kikuyu community, pleading for votes, as his rival Bundotich Kiprop (Buzeki) campaigned in Langas.
Buzeki accused the governor of pretending not to be a tribalist, just because of the polls.
“Judge someone on the basis of what he has been doing for five years. Let him not lie that he has repented just because of the election. He will go back to his old ways,” he said.
Buzeki held a well-attended rally at Langas, the same area where Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi publicly campaigned for Okumu against Muya for the Langas MCA seat. Buzeki campaigned for Muya.
 The governor’s team says they will back two other ODM candidates in Huruma and Kiplombe wards.
The move has angered Jubilee insiders, who met on Friday to discuss the move. Mandago’s backing of Okumu appears to be payback to the NASA team. Muya and Huruma ward MCA Peter Chomba have been harsh critics of Mandago and they support Buzeki.  
Mandago told the Kikuyu community he has no problem with them, except for Chomba and Muya, saying they engage in tribal politics.
 Mandago and Buzeki are in a tight battle to control more than 180,000 votes from non-Kalenjin communities in Eldoret. The area has more than 450,000 votes.
Opinion polls indicate Buzeki is ahead with 54 per cent against Mandago’s 42.2 per cent.
 Buzeki is perceived to enjoy wide support from both non-Kalenjin and Kalenjin supporters.
The battle between Mandago and Buzeki to control the non-Kalenjin votes in Eldoret town has intensified as both met with Luhya, Luo and Kisii communities to ask for support.
Uasin Gishu is home to DP William Ruto.