A US lobby has asked its Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission to probe BAT and its subsidiaries on allegations of corruption in Africa. Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids made the request in a statement on Wednesday. British American Tobacco has allegedly illegally moved millions of dollars to DRC for its operations. The company is also facing allegations of engaging with armed rebels in the country's conflict and asking them to drop cash secretly for use in paying farmers in Auzi. According to The Guardian, the location is an unmapped town BAT built in the 1950s. Matthew Myers, President of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said past investigations show BAT moved the money. Myers said this came up after it emerged that the company had engaged in acts of corruption, including bribing Health ministry officials Burundi, Comoros and Rwanda. It has also been alleged that BAT bribed a Ugandan parliamentarian and Kenya's Martha Karua when she was justice minister. “This is a company that has proven it cannot and will not play by the rules. Unless and until they are held accountable by governments, shareholders, business partners and the public, the company’s wrongdoing will only continue,” he stated. Louis Charalambous, solicitor of former BAT worker Paul Hopkins, said the company was cleared in a case where no evidence was found supporting allegations that he was fired or even disciplined. "These false claims were made by BAT and a Kenyan politician who was a subject of the BBC Panorama programm in order to divert attention from wrongdoing where Hopkins used BAT for whistle-blowing related unfair dismissal following his redundancy process," he said. "His previous advisers pursued the case in London because his employment contracts were made in the UK rather than Kenya." Read: Hopkins 'covered up' senior BAT official's death in 'drug-fuelled orgy with prostitutes' at a Nairobi hotel Hopkins worked with the firm for more than 13 years and was linked to the making of payments to law enforcement agencies and government officials, including Karua and Moses Wetang'ula, on behalf of BAT. The two Kenyans denied the allegations but the company is under official investigation by the UK’s Serious Fraud Office over these claims. More on this: Martha Karua denies Sh7.6 million BAT kickback for presidential campaign Also read: BAT faces probe over ‘favours’ to Weta, Karua