Did a foreign envoy shrug off a request by NASA Presidential candidate Raila Odinga for a private meeting yesterday at the Bomas of Kenya? A little bird tells Corridors that the opposition chief approached the powerful member of the Diplomatic Corps asking for a private talk, a request that was brushed aside. The envoy was overheard telling the opposition leader, &ldquo;not now, perhaps later&rdquo;. It remained unclear what confidential discussion Raila wanted to have with the envoy before he went into a meeting with the IEBC commissioners.===The ruling Jubilee Party is said to have deployed its political and administration machinery to Kitutu Masaba during the campaigns to ensure vocal area MP Timothy Bosire lost the election. Bosire, who is a fierce critic of the Jubilee administration, was floored by Jubilee&rsquo;s Shadrack Mose, a perennial political contender. It is said that the government unleashed all the resources at its disposal to teach the ODM treasurer a lesson. And so they did, as they sent home the one-term MP and key member of the opposition coalition. A case of out but not down? Time will tell.===An ODM governor-elect from the Nyanza region is a man at peace with himself. The county chief, who faced a reelection challenge from a strong and well-oiled front, flew to Nairobi by private jet immediately he was declared the winner. You think he had drained his accounts to the last coin? No, you are in for a rude shock: The county boss must have decided to showcase his financial muscle after his critics taunted him during the campaigns, implying he was broke. He jetted out to celebrate in style after a gruelling campaign.===Talk about being spotted a mile off. Why did two police officers in plainclothes sneak into a NASA tallying centre located on the Runda Estate? The armed officers, who passed themselves off as journalists, entered the building when the journalists were making their way in too, for a media tour. Corridors is informed that the officers were an advance team of Flying Squad officers who were dispatched to gain entry into the building to confiscate crucial software preceding a formal raid. The trickery flopped when officials at the data centre spotted them much earlier.