Mvita MP-elect Abdulswamad Nassir says he will run for Mombasa governor in 2022. Governor Hassan Joho wants to run for President in 2022. The dust over disputed polls had yet to settle before the son of once- powerful minister and MP Shariff Nassir said he wants to succeed incumbent Hassan Joho. The ‘Sultan’ was reelected. The ODM legislator will likely face Kisauni MP-elect Ali Mbogo of Wiper. Mbogo said he will only serve one term. Fights within Joho’s circle to identify or name a successor have begun in earnest. In the run-up to this year’s polls, former Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba and Badi Twalib (MP-elect Jomvu) announced their intentions to run for the county’s top seat. “You have allowed me to serve you for five years and so it [is] wise to reelect me. We’ve embarked on this journey together and my deeds have informed your decisions. We pray that God grants us life so that I serve you in a much bigger capacity in 2022,” Nassir said during his congratulatory speech at Mvita tallying centre on Thursday night. When claims Joho had forged academic papers surfaced — and it seemed possible he wouldn’t seek reelection, Nassir was touted by ODM as the suitable replacement. The case has been put off. Joho denies wrongdoing. Joho and Nassir started on rather rough paths after both won the March 4, 2013, polls. The two disagreed bitterly. They later became close friends, standing with each other in times of need.Mvita MP-elect Abdulswamad Nassir says he will run for Mombasa governor in 2022. Governor Hassan Joho wants to run for President in 2022. The dust over disputed polls had yet to settle before the son of once- powerful minister and MP Shariff Nassir said he wants to succeed incumbent Hassan Joho. The ‘Sultan’ was reelected. The ODM legislator will likely face Kisauni MP-elect Ali Mbogo of Wiper. Mbogo said he will only serve one term. Fights within Joho’s circle to identify or name a successor have begun in earnest. In the run-up to this year’s polls, former Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba and Badi Twalib (MP-elect Jomvu) announced their intentions to run for the county’s top seat. “You have allowed me to serve you for five years and so it [is] wise to reelect me. We’ve embarked on this journey together and my deeds have informed your decisions. We pray that God grants us life so that I serve you in a much bigger capacity in 2022,” Nassir said during his congratulatory speech at Mvita tallying centre on Thursday night. When claims Joho had forged academic papers surfaced — and it seemed possible he wouldn’t seek reelection, Nassir was touted by ODM as the suitable replacement. The case has been put off. Joho denies wrongdoing. Joho and Nassir started on rather rough paths after both won the March 4, 2013, polls. The two disagreed bitterly. They later became close friends, standing with each other in times of need.