Former CJ Willy Mutunga has told his "story of injustice" by city water cartels, which he says robbed him of his rights.Via Twitter on Friday, Mutunga said he paid Nairobi Water company more than Sh20,000 in arrears by the former owner of his flat.He said his hope was for a connection early in 2016 but that he did not know the road was going to be bumpy."This my story of injustice perpetrated by Nairobi Water over my water account," he said."For more than a year I never got a drop of water from Nairobi Water. They continued to bill me for minimum charges."The former Chief Justice said he then decided to have the supply disconnected as after all, there was a borehole.He said he was happy that he had gotten rid of the "cheating" supplier but added "I had to pay Sh15,500 for the minimum charges and I lost Sh35,000"."I was wrong! Because seven out of 24 owners did not pay these minimum charges. Yesterday, Nairobi Water disconnected [supply from our borehole]."Mutunga said he talked to a woman at the company who promised to follow up but that no solution came up."I talked to two supervisors from Nairobi Water about this. They asked me to call their supervisor, Nancy, on 0721 413284," he said."Nancy said she will seek the advice of her supervisor and let our caretaker know. She didn't."OLD PIPES, ILLEGAL CONNECTIONSIn July 2016, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company protested against cartels interfering with its efforts to curb illegal connections and improve supply in the city.Managing director Philip Gichuki said youth and gangs, especially in informal settlements, are running the illegal connections.&ldquo;We are facing challenges from these cartels. They don&rsquo;t want to see us in the areas they man,&rdquo; he said.More on this: Cartels disrupting supply in city, says Nairobi Water MDSee: [VIDEO] Nairobi water company workers strike over board's decision to fire directorsFrequent water shortages are largely blamed on wastage due to leakages in aged pipe systems, the growing population and the illegal connections.Nairobi has a population of more than three million, 75.7 per cent of which uses piped water daily.According to HuruMap, this is more than double the rate in Kenya - 29.96 per cent. 'CARTELS MUST GO'Mutunga urged former Senator and new Governor Mike Sonko to step in as the cartels' operations must come to an end."We have water to last us one day. Today I will look out for "clean water" tankers," he said.The former CJ asked Nairobians facing similar problems to email him on [email&#160;protected] if they want to fight for their rights."I await for Nairobi residents who have similar stories."Mutunga told Sonko he will be part of a movement that fights for "clean and safe water in adequate quantities" for Nairobi residents."It's likely that my two tweets posted this week about Nairobi Water and cartels may have a bearing on the action of Nairobi Water."Sonko has been on fire since he was sworn in as Evans Kidero's successor after the national election on August 8.He promised Mutunga that he will continue cleaning the city and rid Nairobi of cartels.This was after Mutunga said he had noticed that clean water tanks "suddenly appear" in areas without supply. In quick rejoinder, Sonko said: "I can confirm to you today that the fight against water cartels has kicked off. Nairobi will never be the same again #DrainTheCartels."