More than 6,000 fishermen who were loaned equipment by the county government have been pardoned and will no longer have to pay up the loans, Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha has said. He spoke in Lamu town on Sunday as he prepared for his first day in office yesterday. The equipment loaned included boat engines, fishing gear and cold storage facilities and was purchased and loaned to the fishermen by Twaha’s predecessor Issa Timamy at a fee, which many fishermen have not finished repaying. The equipment had been loaned to individual fishermen and groups to help them ply their trade on the deep seas. They were to pay up over a period of time and the time has not lapsed. Twaha said it was wrong for the county government to have loaned the equipment instead of giving it to the fishermen for free. Property belongs to the people He said such help was a mandate of the county government to its people and the people should not pay. “How do you make someone pay for something that already belongs to them? The county government is supposed to help and not loan,” Twaha said. He said his administration will not pursue any fisherman for the money and will instead seek to reinforce their functions even more. “Use this equipment to better your lives. We shall, as the county government, do more to make your work more easier and productive. You are the landlords, you pay the taxes and it’s only fair that you don’t pay for such,” Twaha said. Safety for all at sea Twaha said his administration will ensure all boats in Lamu are fitted with radio call devices to enable them to call for help during emergencies. He expressed concern with the increased maritime accidents that have left several dead in the past few months and said his administration will promote maritime safety and enable prompt rescue. The governor said his office had already initiated talks with the Kenya Maritime Authority office in Lamu to increase maritime patrols to improve safety at sea. “In June we lost 10 people from an accident at sea. This month our colleague lost an entire family at sea and that’s very unfortunate,” Twaha said. Residents and other stakeholders have been urging the county and national governments to come up with proper measures to save lives during emergencies at sea.