All commercial banks in the country have until end of November to present their elaborate cybersecurity plans. The Central Bank, in new regulations, said the move seeks to increase the industry’s stability on the back of increased application of digital technology that comes with higher risks of cyber crimes. For instance, a recent cybersecurity report by Deloitte ranked Kenyan firms, especially banks, as the biggest casualties of cyber crimes in the region, losing up to Sh17.1 billions last year. Tanzania and Ugandan firms lost $85 million (Sh8.5 billion) and $35 million (Sh3.5 billion) respectively in the same period. The report further revealed that 96.1 per cent of cyber security incidents are not reported as companies opt to protect their reputations. It predicted that the cost of cyber crime could rise by as much as 30 per cent this year. The regulator now wants all banks to ensure that cybersecurity measures are embraced right from the top management and be incorporated in the audit processes. Banks are to send quarterly cybersecurity reports to CBK. ‘’The purpose of the cybersecurity strategy, policies and framework is to specify how to identify, manage, and mitigate cyber risks in a comprehensive and integrated manner. They should be tailored based on the institution’s risk profile, size, complexity and nature of their business processes,’’ the notice read in part. Bank managers have been further urged to allocate adequate cybersecurity budgets based on the institution’s structure to support their plans. Subsequently, all licensed banks are required to notify the regulator within 24 hours of any cybersecurity incident that could have a significant impact on the institution’s ability to provide services. According to Deloitte, the high rates of cybercrime can be attributed to low awareness of threats among local businesses as well as a lack of investment in cyber security. Their report for instance showed that a majority of the organisations spend less than $5,000 annually on cyber security products while some had no budget and did not train their staff on cyber security. Generally, the report shows that banks in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, Tanzania and Zambia lose $245 million (Sh367 billion) annually in cyber fraud. The CBK’s notice comes at a time the world is struggling with a series of attacks by a malware dubbed WannaCry which attacks computers and encrypt crucial files. CBK in June asked banks to submit these plans by August 31 this year but has since extended the deadline by three months to give banks room to come up with more elaborate strategies, policies and frameworks.