Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi are newsmakers and troubleshooters. Their continued criticism of the Jubilee government’s policies and development programmes in the Coast have set them apart from other Coast politicians. In this, Joho and Kingi have earned themselves friends and foes in equal measure. For the vast majority of the historically marginalised communities here, the two governors are heroes. This week, Joho and Kingi were in the news again, when they announced that they would vie for President in 2022. In hindsight, Joho or Kingi will not the first Coast politicians to vie for the top seat: Tw0 others have done it in the past — the late academician Dr Katama Mkangi, and Dr Chibule wa Tsuma in the 1990s. Without a doubt, Joho and Kingi’s plans to run have, in part, been fuelled by their recent electoral victories as second term governors in their representative bases. What are their chances? For starters, there are numerous local and external hurdles the two governors have to surmount in their quest for the presidency. Within the Coast region, Joho and Kingi have to contend with the problem of politically fusing together badly splintered ethnic communities for them to build a viable voting bloc. This should be the starting point as they seek support from beyond the region. The Coast is unique in that, unlike other regions, it is ethnically heterogeneous. This unity in diversity has politically worked against the region, given Kenya-driven politics of ethnicity. Nevertheless, Joho and Kingi should, of necessity, work to build this regional bloc, failing which their presidential bids could be hampered. After all politics is local. The other hurdle is the disunity that has manifested itself not only among political leaders but also across the professions, class, business and social life. This disunity is corroborated in an opinion poll conducted sometime back by Ipsos, a local polling firm, and which measured coastal communities’ attitudes towards their elected leaders. Those interviewed noted that jealousy, greed and self-interest among leaders impacted negatively on the region’s politico-economic and social progress. Those findings remain valid today. Joho and Kingi will also have to contend with the uncertain future of ODM after Raila Odinga’s exit. Both governors are ardent ODM adherents. In local parlance, they are ODM damu. Yet, the future viability of ODM is shrouded in Raila’s next move. If Raila is to run again in 2022 — which is unlikely — the Kingi/Joho presidential bids shall be nipped in the bud, unless, of course, they opt to vie on an alternative party, which is also unlikely. In some ways, the 2022 presidential contest should be unique. All factors remaining constant, the Kenyatta-Odinga dynasties that have been characterised by political and ideological rivalries since 1966 should be a thing of the past. President Uhuru Kenyatta shall have saved his final second term and, predictably, Raila will have exited the political scene. The absence of active political participation of these two families should usher in alternative leaders such as Joho and Kingi in the Coast. In this freed political and ideological space, Joho and Kingi will as well have to face competition from other presidential contenders, notably, Jubilee’s William Ruto, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, among others. Ruto is credited for the recent Jubilee election gains in the Coast, in which the party won two governor positions in Kwale and Lamu. Kalonzo, on his part, has an added advantage in Coast politics. A significant number of the Kamba population lives in the region in areas such as Shimba Hills in Kwale county, Changamwe in Mombasa and Mariakani in Kilifi. Left unchecked, the Ruto-Kalonzo presidential bids could complicate the Joho-Kingi attempts. The future of NASA should also be of concern to the Joho and Kingi presidential bids. If NASA were to survive beyond the 2017 election, this would likely offer Kalonzo the opportunity to assume Raila’s mantle — if the alliance’s principles are to be honoured. If this were to happen, the Joho-Kingi presidential bid would be stifled. Then there is the matter of external support. Joho and Kingi should acknowledge the difficulty of earning votes from other regions in an ethnically based Kenyan electoral politics. As of now, some regions have already made their 2022 presidential options known. Though Central region is historically known to vote for one of their own for president, the probability is that Ruto may be competitive here if he plays his cards well. In the Rift Valley, the Deputy President is assured of a more competitive advantage, even if Kanus Gideon Moi enters the fray. Similar ethnic-based support obtains in areas such as the Lower-Eastern region of Ukambani, in which Kalonzo is expected to earn votes, irrespective of his dwindling political star in that region.In this context, the Joho and Kingi presidential bids should count on shared votes from primarily the ODM/NASA regions of the Coast, Luo Nyanza, Western and to some extent Northeastern. This means they shall have to share votes with the other competitors from these regions, notably in the Western region, which is as much politically splintered as the Coast. As things stand now, the Joho and Kingi 2022 presidential bid may not mean much to the disillusioned and dejected coastal communities, many of whom are fatigued of enduring unresolved historical injustices. The attempts may as well not mean much to the rest of Kenyans still sceptical of the Coast producing presidential material at the present moment. Nevertheless, by declaring to enter the presidential rare in 2022, Joho and Kingi are trying to send a strong message, in particular to coastal communities, that the sky is the limit. For many of us in this marginalised region, it is a message of hope to a people’s political consciousness.         