Juja residents have voted across ethnic divisions and elected a politician they fondly call ‘Muhindi wa Juja’ their ward representative. Kalpesh Jayantilal beat nine rivals after getting18,471 votes. He was followed by David Macharia with 2,349 and Jeremiah Kiama with 2,107. Jayantilal took the Jubilee nomination with 2,178 votes and was followed by Jeremiah Kiarie (923) and David Macharia (754). Incumbent MCA Samuel Gitau alias Kitata was last with 61 votes. The Juja-based businessman received his winning certificate from Juja returning officer Justus Mbithi at Mang’u High School tallying center on Thursday. Speaking to The Star after his triumph, Jayantilal said he gained support after helping the local community with basic commodities such as free water. “I sat down with my people and we drafted our way forward. They listed what they wanted me to look into and I promised to deliver. They have expressed their confidence in me and I’m grateful,” he said. More on unexpected wins: Cook, mechanic and watchman flying high in Kericho, Kiambu after election Also read: Student, 24, set to become MP after campaigning on bicycle Juja ward residents said they voted for Jayantilal because he can improve their area. “Even before we elected him he constructed several kilometers of feeder roads in the ward. The clean tap water we use in our homes comes from his family’s go-downs and we access it for free,” said resident Lawrence Kiruthu. Jayantilal attended Machakos Primary School before proceeding to Parklands Secondary School. He sat A-levels at Chania High School, Thika, and before joining the family business. He said he will work closely with re-elected area MP Francis Waititu to serve the best interests of Juja’s people. “Waititu is a good leader and a performer. I will team up with him to ensure we develop our region,” he said. The MP was re-elected with 66,190 votes while George Koimburi took second place with 10,165 votes.  Antony Kirori came third with 6,335 while Lukas Mwaura was fourth with 4,590. The MP commended Jayantilal and said they will work together to help residents.