Jubilee operatives were in celebration mood on Wednesday, when opposition leader Raila Odinga (pictured) announced that he will head to the Supreme Court to seek redress. Some of the operatives, who are known to be very close to Presdient Uhuru Kenyatta, openly told whoever cared to listen to them that their man will once again be confirmed President. Question that pops up in people’s mind: What is it that they know that we do not know? === Farah Maalim, the opposition political heavyweight whose unsuccessfully challenged Aden Duale, must be going through tough moments as he plots his next move. The former Deputy Speaker defied odds and dared the Majority Leader for a political contest in the battle for the Garissa Township parliamentary seat. Many would be asking where Maalim went after losing last week, but the vocal opposition politician is mapping out his comeback. === A former Jubilee governor candidate in Nyanza has threatened to unearth massive fraud in the just-concluded General Election that saw him lose the contest. The politician, who is already preparing a petition to challenge the governor results, believes his main opponent bribed and intimidated voters on Election Day. “I have evidence of my opponents together openly dishing out money to voters outside some polling stations. We are headed for a by-election soon, I swear because our evidence is watertight,” said the former governor candidate at a Nairobi hotel. === A governor from Western Kenya, who narrowly won the just-concluded polls, has shocked his supporters after he issued a threat that he will be sacking several officers in his government who had ruled out his reelection. The governor-elect, who is awaiting his swearing-in before unleashing the merciless purge, has already verbally warned the targeted employees that their fate is sealed. Won’t this be unconstitutional as Kenyans have civic rights enshrined in the Constitution? === A vocal ODM MP from Nyanza is busy campaigning among his colleagues for the influential position of the Minority Leader of the National Assembly. The combative MP, who has been a thorn in the flesh of the Jubilee administration believes his performance credentials are solid and he deserves the position as a reward for his fierce onslaught against government. “I am the man to beat, just wait and see,” he was overhead bragging to colleagues at a high-end city hotel. === He wasn’t only just handsome, as a Nairobi woman has noted, but IEBC chief Ezra Chiloba is equally a serious chorister. The SDA faithful was in his spiritual element yesterday, when he moved mourners at Chris Musando’s requiem mass.