South Sudan has released at
least 30 political prisoners since President Salva Kiir declared
an amnesty in May to facilitate national dialogue and douse a
four-year civil war, a senior security official said. Jalban Obaj, director of legal affairs at the Internal
Security Bureau told SSBC state television late on Thursday that
the prisoners had been set free at different times since the
declaration of the amnesty. Nearly all the ex-detainees, including Justin Wanawila
Bilal, a religious cleric, had been accused of supporting
opposition leader and former vice president Riek Machar. "The release of the political detainees came as a gesture
of good will," Ateny Wek Ateny, Kiir's spokesman, told Reuters
on Friday. He said the freeing of the detainees without any
precondition also demonstrated that Kiir was determined to
resolve the country's conflict. South Sudan was plunged into war in 2013 after a political
disagreement between Kiir and Machar strained relations between
the two. Kiir then sacked Machar as his deputy, triggering
fighting between forces loyal to both men. Kiir hails from the Dinka while Machar is a Nuer and the
rivalry between the two tribes has meant much of the fighting
and violence has unfolded along ethnic divisions. South Sudan Human Rights Observatory (SSHRO), a local
non-governmental organisation, said in a statement the release
of only 30 prisoners was "cosmetic because thousands of South
Sudanese... are still unlawfully detained". The SSHRO also accused the government of continuing a
campaign of "hunting, harassing and kidnapping political
opponents" - a charge Kiir's administration denies. An estimated quarter of South Sudan's 12 million people have
been uprooted by the conflict, with neighbouring Uganda hosting
a million of those displaced. Machar is being held as a "guest" in South Africa to prevent
him stirring up trouble, diplomats and political sources told
Reuters last December. Last month an international mediator said Machar had
declined to renounce violence or declare a unilateral ceasefire
and instead demanded new peace talks outside South Sudan.