NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula says he will succeed Raila Odinga when he retires and vie for the presidency in 2022. Speaking at a Mass at Christ the King Catholic Church in Bungoma town, Wetang’ula said after Raila announced that he will not vie again, he is in a better position to replace him. “I sacrificed my ambition to support Raila in the just-concluded election, despite having launched my presidential bid for the sake of opposition’s unity. I will be going for the top seat in the next Gneral Election,” he said. Wetang’ula told the congregation he is ready to lead the country, having served in different capacities as an elected leader. At the same time, the Bungoma Senator said he will represent NASA at the Supreme Court in a case they have filed against Jubilee over allegations of a rigged presidential election. “Jubilee never won the election, they rigged. We have enough evidence that we will present in court. I am going to represent NASA as we fight to have justice served,” he said. Wetang’ula said in case the court does not rule in their favour because of unsatisfactorily evidence, NASA will seek an alternative avenue for justice. “Justice is the foundation of peace. And peace is only arrived at when there is justice. In the case of the election, there was no just because Raila won and he was rigged out,” he said. He was flanked by Bungoma woman representative Catherine Wambilianga and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wetang’ula retained the Bungoma senate seat in the August 8 General Election. Wetang’ula did did not campaign much for himself, instead campaigning for NASA flagbearer Raila. He pledged to work with Governor-elect Wycliffe Wangamati, also of Ford Kenya. Ford Kenya was a big winner in Bungoma in the election. The party won the governor, senate and woman representative seats. In his acceptance speech after reelection, he said it is time to restore Bungoma’s lost glory. “We will exorcise the ghosts of graft, nepotism, tribalism and embezzlement of public funds in Bungoma,” he said at KIE offices, the main tallying centre.