NASA's Raila Odinga has said President Uhuru cannot solve the land problem at the Coast because 'he is part of the problem'. Raila said Uhuru only chest thumps about the title deeds issued to Coast residents during his tenure but does not know the extent of the land problem at the Coast. President Uhuru's administration has issued over 300,000 titles at the Coast. “The land problem at the Coast is not about title deeds. The land problem at the Coast is because of historical injustices,” said Raila. He spoke on Friday during the final NASA rally in Mombasa held at the Mama Ngina Drive. He said the land question started during the pre-colonial era when the Arabs ruled the country before the European took over. “We as NASA have the solution to that land problem here. Uhuru cannot (solve the problem) because he and his father are part of the problem,” said Raila. President Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto have made frequent trips to the Coast in an effort wrest political control of the region from the hands of NASA. Speaking in Shimoni in Kwale county on July 18, Uhuru said his administration has issued more than 300,000 title deeds in the Coast region. This is part of Jubilee’s action plan to empower Kenyans to own property to enable them to create wealth. In Kwale alone, he said Jubilee has issued over 40,000 title deeds “We have issued more than 300,000 title deeds in the coast region. This is the first step in enriching people,” said Uhuru. He noted that is part of the over 3.5 million title deeds his administration has issued over the last four years. On Friday, Raila said time has come for the Coast residents to stop being squatters on their own land. The former Prime Minister has been advocating for the implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission which he says will address historical injustices, including land. Read: Balala, Kazungu issue 3,000 titles to Kilifi residents, praise Uhuru Also read: Jubilee gave Coast fake title deeds to get votes in polls – Raila 