The IEBC will today announce the results
of the presidential candidates, ending days of anxious waiting. The commission is expected
to declare President Uhuru Kenyatta, who, according to the electoral agency’s online
transmission portal, has been ahead of NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga
with 1.3 million votes. Uhuru had 8,104,350 votes against
Raila’s 6,704,589 votes in a race dubbed a 2013 rematch between the two
scions of the country’s founding fathers. NASA had disputed the portal results
terming them fake and a fraud. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said they are hopeful of
concluding tallying the results from the 290 constituencies by tomorrow and
immediately thereafter declare the winner. Speaking during the first briefing yesterday,
he confirmed a total of 117 form 34Bs have been received so far. They hope
to get the remaining 173 by noon today. The commission chairman, being the returning
officer of the presidential contest, is expected to later today to make the
final announcement after collating the 290 forms 34B. "We have called all the
returning officers to ensure that all the form 34Bs are here latest 12pm tomorrow.
We will validate the forms and make the announcement soon thereafter," Chebukati said. From the forms 34B the commission
will generate the Form 34C, which is used to declare the winner in the
presidential race. Already two presidential candidates
have conceded defeat. Thirdway alliance candidate Ekuru Aukot and independent candidate Joseph Kavinga Kaluyu said they had no mathematical chances of winning the race, which, according to the results displayed by the IEBC, turned to be a two-horse race. Aukot had 26,947 votes, while Kavinga managed 11,520 votes from the Tuesday General Election. Opinion was however divided on the outcome
of the verification of forms 34B at Bomas of Kenya, the national tallying
centre. NASA claimed some discrepancies were
detected during the verification process, whereas the Jubilee team rubbished the
claims saying the differences, if any, were minimal and could not tilt the scale. Jubilee secretary general Raphael
Tuju yesterday told the Star that the forms they had randomly gone through tally with the results relayed in the portal which give Uhuru an unassailable
lead. Both sides are doing a random check of
the 40,883 forms 34A signed by political party agents and presiding officers at
the polling stations. But Raila's agent leading the
verification at Bomas, Koitamet Ole Kina, claims massive tampering with the
forms. "Can you manipulate 40,883
forms 34A to tally with the displayed results?" Tuju questioned. He said President Uhuru's win is clean
contrary to the opposition's rigging claims. "We didn't have governor in
Coast now we have two. We didn't have an MP in Western now we have three
Jubilee MPs. In Kisii ODM has not a single MP," Tuju said. Koitamet said in most forms availed
by IEBC they detected a constant subtraction of an average three votes from
Raila with the same being added to Uhuru. "The forms availed by IEBC for
verification bare different figures from the ones signed and copy sent to us by
our agents,” he said. ANC secretary general Godfrey
Osotsi added the subtraction of Raila's votes was massively detected in
Nyamira and Kisii counties. Uhuru performed exceptionally well in the two
counties earlier viewed as NASA zones. The opposition verification team also
demanded that IEBC make public polling stations that still have no forms 34A attached to the text results in the portal. But in a media briefing yesterday, Chebukati
said that by 2pm yesterday, only 1,032 of the 40,883 polling stations had
not transmitted the crucial forms 34A. As at 2pm, the IEBC had 117 constituency tally forms 34B and only 1,032 of the
40,883 polling stations had not transmitted forms 34A. They had also received more than 80 of 290 forms 34B and 26,424 of the 40,883 forms 34A forms have been posted
online. The commission also assured Kenyans
that their database is safe and a preliminary probe in the alleged hacking revealed an unsuccessful hacking attempt by an unnamed third party.