Kisumu Governor-elect Anyang Nyong'o has proposed a parliamentary system of leadership to replace the presidential one, noting it will reduce tension. Kenyans have been on edge since Tuesday when they votes for Jubilee Party's Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA principal Raila Odinga. Nyong'o, who was Senator, also said on Friday that the system will unite tribes as the presidential system is unhealthy and spikes tribalism. He further said the current style has denied Kenyans their democratic rights over the years yet they sacrifice time to exercise it. "We need to work on how we can have a parliamentary system of leadership to prevent such injustice," he said, adding Kenya can no longer afford leaders who cling to power through unconstitutional means. "We have a big challenge in our electoral system because we didn't complete crafting the constitution. Kenya is ripe for a parliamentary system which to me is the long term solution to the presidential results disputes we experience after every five years." Nyong'o added the current system is retrogressive and urged peace despite the outcome of the presidential election. He spoke on Friday after election results were announced, and promised to steer development. The ODM legislator trounced incumbent Jack Ranguma and three other candidates with 272,172 votes. Independent Ranguma got 156,963 votes. Read: Anyang’ Nyong’o being forced on Kisumu residents, says Ranguma Jubilee’s Christine Atieno, the only woman in the race, came a distant third with 2,383 votes and was followed by Peter Omolo (ANC) with 1,955 and David Wayiera (ALPK) with 821 votes. On the governor role, Nyong'o said his government will prioritise laying down proper structures for devolution, such as establishing village councils and a city board. He also said his government will also improve sanitation and healthcare and proposed. County returning officer John Lorionokou, who declared the three ODM leaders' victory at Tom Mboya Labour College in the morning, congratulated them for maintaining peace. He noted that in the past, people have died. OUTA WINS SENATOR RACE Fred Outa of ODM was declared winner of the Senator race after garnering 358,465 votes. The outgoing Nyando MP was followed by James Ogoda (independent) who managed 58,893 votes, Millicent Abudho (Ford Kenya) with 12,005 and Achoro Ayoki (Jubilee) with 5,059. In the woman representative race, Rosa Buyu (ODM) emerged winner with a resounding 385,952 votes. Citizen Conventions Party leader Grace Odhiambo came second with 42,199 votes, Beatrice Anyango (Independent) third with 4,202 votes and Hilda Odhiambo (independent) 2,982 votes. Buyu, who has unsuccessfully contested the Kisumu West parliamentary seat twice, promised to work hard to foster development in the lake side county. In the parliamentary race, Muhoroni MP James Onyango Koyoo retained his seat after garnering 50,080 on an ODM ticket. Koyoo, who defected from People’s Democratic Party, defeated Amani National Congress candidate Obera John Okeyo who got 6,470 votes. Citizens Convention Party candidate Auma John Ochieng was third in the race with 6,068 votes. KANU's Nyaliech Jack Ochieng got 402 votes while Francis Ogot of Jubilee Party garnered 398 votes. Jared Okello of ODM was declared winner of the Nyando parliamentary seat after scoring 53,243 votes (99.27 per cent). He was followed by Jubilee’s Michael Sidigu with 390 votes (0.73 per cent). OUDA TAKES KISUMU CENTRAL Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor successfully defended his seat after getting 55,772 votes on ODM ticket against two competitors. Aduma defeated Stephen Ogallo (independent) who got 1,882 votes while Jubilee Party’s Okolo Enos Gundi managed 433 votes. Newcomer Fred Ouda clinched Kisumu Central parliamentary seat after getting 80,682 votes against his closest challenger Yusuf Ooro (independent) who garnered 4395 votes. Opposition chief Raila Odinga's ODM party suffered a blow as it failed in Kisumu West and East constituencies. More on Western: Western voted to strengthen Mudavadi, ODM biggest loser - analysts Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch survived the ODM wave on a Ford Kenya party ticket with 33,731 votes. He beat his closest rival John Awiti of ODM, who managed 22,416 votes and was followed by independent candidate Kennedy Obiero with 1,995 votes. Geoffrey Ndinya of ANC got 490 votes, Joram Abayo of Jubilee Party 329 and Michael Okidi of Citizens Convention Party 200 votes. Shakeel Shabir (independent) beat ODM’s Nicholas Oricho to retain the Kisumu East parliamentary seat 