Vote for me in large numbers. Do not let President Uhuru Kenyatta beat me in my home turf, NASA Presidential candidate told Kisii residents on Tuesday. He asked the Kisii community to deny Jubilee the 25 per cent of votes. “They claim that they know how to vote. Show them that you can also vote by turning out in large numbers and ensuring that they don’t get even 10 per cent. It will be shameful if [President] Uhuru beats me in my home turf,” Raila said. The ODM leader addressed rallies in Masimba, Nyacheki, Ogembo, Marani, Nyakoe and Gusii Stadium, urging voters to elect ODM candidates. He named Kisii Governor James Ongwae, woman representative candidate Janet Ong’era, senator candidate Sam Ongeri and Kitutu Chache North’s Migosi Ogamba. “Ensure that you elect Governor Ongwae, Ongeri and Ong’era. Also ensure that [Kitutu Chache MP Jimmy] Angwenyi is sent home to make it clear that Kisii is not a Jubilee zone,” Raila said in Marani, Kitutu Chache North. NASA affiliate parties have fielded candidates for all seats in Kisii, a move political pundits opine could cost the opposition some seats due to split votes. Raila said NASA will resolve the problems coffee and tea farmers face, will make agriculture profitable and uplift people from poverty. Kisii is a NASA zone, not a swing vote His running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi dispelled the notion that Kisii is swing vote. “Kisii is not a swing county but a NASA stronghold,” Mudavadi said. Ongeri, Ongwae and Ong’era asked Kisiis to join Kenyans in changing the country’s leadership. The NASA brigade visited Kisii a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto held a rally at Gusii Stadium to woo the community to vote for them. Uhuru and Ruto last week visited neighbouring Nyamira county. Kisii has 546,580 registered voters and Nyamira has 278,580. In the March 4, 2013 election, Raila had 95,596 votes ( 66 per cent) in Nyamira, while President Uhuru had 54,071 ( 29 per cent). In Kisii, Raila had 236,831 ( 68 per cent) while Uhuru garnered 95,596 ( 27 per cent). However, ODM suffered a major blow after some leaders, among them Kisii Senator Chris Obure, Kisii woman representative Mary Otara and Bomachoge Borabu MP Simon Ogari defected to Jubilee. Jubilee has launched a major onslaught on the Kisii vote, deploying various teams to shore up Uhuru’s votes.