There is too much hot air over secession. This country isn&rsquo;t held together by a geography called Kenya. Any Kenyan today could have existed and can live anywhere in the world. You can stop being Kenyan as easily as you can become Kenyan. You can easily be dispossessed of the birthright in the same manner you can become a citizen of another country. So being Kenyan isn&rsquo;t peculiar; it&rsquo;s an accident of fate. Providence placed all of us here and all we do is build ties that bind us daily. These ties help us tolerate each other.Every country in the world is merely a geographical expression. Those boundaries can expand or contract but we remain constant. We&rsquo;re therefore held together not because we love each other, but because we realise that in our individual survival, we must coexist. The Constitution puts it this way; your freedom ends where mine begins.This is in recognition of how the threat of mutual destruction acted as deterrence in the Cold War era. Between World War II and the end of the Cold War with the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s, the two avoided a Third World War by developing and deploying nuclear weapons at the ready against each other. This mutual threat of collateral destruction kept world peace.The internal dynamics of a country are no different. Domestic law is an internal equivalent of the Cold War threat of mutual nuclear obliteration that keeps us in check against transgressing each other. The law only works because we respect and abide by it. Absent that respect for and of the rule of law from observance by governance institutions and the populace and in dives anarchy, cannibalism and self-destruction.Hence, there is no greater cause to promote than not only the existence of institutions that superintend the rule of law, but that such institutions must be beyond reproach. These institutions must operate, and be seen to do so by the public, aboveboard, transparently, fairly and accountably. It helps very little in furthering public faith in the rule of law when police flagrantly violate the law by illegally restricting freedom of movement and speech by condoning off the Supreme Court as if it were a war zone.The last of such images were seen when the one-party state turned dictatorship harassed pro-multiparty multitudes in the late 1980s, in Kenya and pro-democracy rallies in the former Soviet satellite republics of Hungary, Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia. The incumbent regimes were hell-bent against the people&rsquo;s right to self-determination.World history &ndash; the French, American, and Cuba revolutions - records that despite the heavy-handedness exerted against the people&rsquo;s will by a regime, the sovereignty of the people has always won.Parliament opens today and needs reminding that countries are held together by &lsquo;shared&rsquo; interests of individuals, classes and communities residing therein. In Kenya, coexistence works only as long as there is residue of hope of each having their share of economic and political wherewithal guaranteed. Parliament is the theatre of negotiating interests and not suppression.The Constitution unequivocally legitimises what Kenya content is made up of and expectations therein. In the Preamble Kenyans commit to &ldquo;nurturing and protecting the well-being of the individual, the family, communities and the nation&rdquo;.Without the total sum of stakes being realised, no country, let alone a fragile one like Kenya, can survive the apogee of dissent by a segment of the populace, no matter how small.Further, the covenant states Kenyans only recognise &ldquo;a government based on the essential values of human rights, equality, freedom, democracy, social justice and the rule of law&rdquo;. Brute force to protect a government in dispute is certainly not the rule of law and has never been a deterrent in the determination of people&rsquo;s sovereignty. We begin to dismantle the Kenya entity when we disable the link of &ldquo;being Kenya&rdquo; and &ldquo;owning Kenya&rdquo;. Parliament is forewarned.We don&rsquo;t preserve the entity when a segment arrogates itself entitlement to &ldquo;own&rdquo; Kenya in perpetuity and disavows links to a &ldquo;shared&rdquo; Kenya. It is hence the independent institutions insulated from fear that ought to panel-beat the wayward Jacobins into line.The Jacobins were the most radical yet ruthless of the political groups formed in the wake of the French Revolution, and instituted the Terror of 1793&ndash;4. Whatever the results of the Supreme Court ruling tomorrow, we ought to deviate from that course.Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi [email&#160;protected] ,