President Kenyatta has thanked Kenyans for showing confidence
in his administration by re-electing him for a second five year term. Uhuru was declared the winner of the highly contested August
8 elections with a total tally of 8,203,290 votes, representing 54.2 per cent
of the total votes. His closest rival, Nasa’s Raila Odinga, came second with 6,762,224
votes representing 44.74 per cent of the votes cast. “Ours is just to pledge that we shall continue with the work
that we have already started and rededicate ourselves even more towards serving
this great nation and our people,” Uhuru said in his acceptance speech at the
Bomas of Kenya on Friday night. Read: Uhuru it is! IEBC declares 'tano tena' for Kenya's president IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said a total of 15,073,662 voters
took part in the elections. He said this represented 78.91 per cent of the 19,611,423
registered voters. The president elect thanked the electoral body for overseeing the
elections that have been praised as credible and transparent by international
observers. “They have done the best that they can do. To the
commissioners, to the staff, thank you very, very, much.” Uhuru also thanked international and local observers for
their dedication in helping to ensure the election was free, transparent and
credible. He reached out to his rival Raila Odinga and his supporters saying
he is ready to work with them in his government. “We have no intention to be combative. So I reach out to my older
brother Raila Odinga. I extend a hand of friendship. I extend a hand of
cooperation. I extend a hand of partnership knowing very well that this country
needs all of us pulling together.” This was the fourth time that Raila has vied for the top seat and lost. His first attempt was in 1997, second attempt was in 2007 and the third was in 2013 where he lost to Uhuru. Raila and his co-principal rejected the results insisting that they must be verified. They ruled out the possibility of seeking legal redress after the commission insisted on announcing the winner before addressing their concerns. Read: We won't challenge presidential results in court - NASA The president also called on Kenyans to maintain peace and tolerance
regardless of their political affiliations. He said it was not worthy for anyone to fight his neighbour
because of a temporary occasion like an election. “My fellow Kenyans, elections come and go, (but) Kenya is
here to stay. Let us always remember that we are brothers and sisters. Your neighbour
is still your neighbour. Let us be peaceful,” Uhuru said. “There is no need for violence. Politicians come and go but
your neighbour is your neighbour regardless of their ethnicity, their religion and
their colour,” he added. Uhuru’s supporters erupted in chants of jubilation soon after
the announcement of his re-election. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni sent a congratulatory message to Uhuru soon after his reelection. He said his re-election was a clear testimony of the trust the president has earned from the Kenyan people. "I therefore look forward to continue working with you to strengthen further the brotherly relations and cooperation between our two countries as well as other EAC partner states in our quest to develop our region," Museveni said. Chairman of Council of Governors Josphat Nanok also sent a congratulatory message saying working together with the national government will enable effective delivery of devolved services. "We will endeavor to play our role as members of the Inter-Governmental body and work with the administration in the spirit of consultations and cooperation," Nanok said.