President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party has bagged 141 parliamentary seats, beating opposition giants ODM, Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC. Jubilee is in a commanding lead in the battle for the control of the bicameral Parliament and the 47 county assemblies. However, critics argue a legislature controlled by the ruling party can be dangerous for democracy, and with whittled down oversight from a feeble opposition. So far, Jubilee has bagged 24 Senate seats and 25 governor seats, putting it firmly in control of the Senate and more than half of the devolved units. This is according to the provisional results by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. More than 95 per cent of the results having been formally announced. Opposition presidential candidate Raila Odinga’s ODM, which in 10th and 11th Parliaments was the single largest political party with majority of the MPs, by last evening had scooped 63 parliamentary seats. The Orange party swept 13 governor slots and the same number of Senate seats. Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper party and Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya had only secured 20 seats, three senate seats, and 10 MPs and one Senate slots respectively. The two parties had two governor seats each. Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party had 11 MPs and two senators. Independents had by last night won 11 parliamentary seats and one senator – a significant number that could sway voting patterns in the National Assembly. Kanu and ANC managed two Senate seats each, while PDR and CCU got one seat each. The Independence Party, however, bagged seven MP seats and one governor seat. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua’s MCC had one Senate seat and three MPs, KNC and KPP had two MP slots each, Muungano, NAPK, PNU, FAP, DP, CCU and ND had one MP each, while CCM had two MPs. Two independent governor candidates, Nderitu Mureithi of Laikipia and Mohamed Kuti of Isiolo floored Jubilee rivals. Provisional results by the IEBC showed that Wycliffe Wangaamati thrashed Western Kenya Jubilee pointman and incumbent governor Ken Lusaka with 195,784 votes against 174,098. In Trans Nzoia county governor race, Patrick Khaemba garnered 126,420 votes to easily retain his seat. He trounced his closest opponent Maurice Bisau of Jubilee Party who garnered 86,353 votes with 93.58 per cent of the results in. Kanu’s John Lonyangapuo, who has been the Senator of West Pokot county, roared to victory by beating incumbent Simon Kachapin with 83,813 votes against 61,126 of the 95.65 per cent of the votes cast.   