From next year, motorists will have to pay to use certain major highways following a plan to introduce toll stations. The government has maintained that by the third quarter of 2018, the toll stations will have been erected on five major roads to raise funds to maintain the country’s road network. The Nairobi-Mombasa highway, the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit highway, Thika Road and the Nairobi’s Southern Bypass are targeted in this new development in a move the government is touting as transformative, arguing it will boost the economy. Kenya National Highways Authority (KENHA) engineer Stanley Mwawasi said the Nairobi-Mombasa and Nairobi-Nakuru highways will be developed by private developers who will then begin charging motorists. “There will be three formats of charging toll fees at tollbooths that will include a manual format where motorists stop and pay, an electronic system that uses prepaid cards that can be swiped and a third system in which vehicles may be fitted with tags,” said Mwawasi. KENHA has recommended charges of Sh1.20 per kilometres for passenger cars, Sh1.79 for matatus and pick-ups, Sh2.39 for buses and medium trucks and Sh3.59 for large tracks. The Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau summit highway has already been bidded for while reports on other roads awaits verification before inviting bids from the private sector. Through the implementation of the Public Private Partnership Act of 2014, the private sector can now finance, construct, develop, operate or maintain government roads through concession arrangements and then charge a fee for using a road they manage. The Matatu Welfare Association has opposed the proposal with the chairman Dickson Mbugua arguing it translates to double taxation given the existence of the fuel levy which is supposed to maintain the roads. “We are already paying a lot of taxes and charges as matte owners. This will be punishing us..the government should engage all stakeholders before rolling out the project. We’re going to write to KENHA to see if it’s true and a press conference will be called after meeting with the board members to give way forward on the issue,” said Mr. Mbugua.