Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba has retained his seat after garnering 135,345 votes against 92,561 for JP’s Maurice Bissau. Khaemba ran on the Ford Kenya ticket. Bissau dismissed the results. He said they “did not reflect the will of the people”. Others in the race were ANC’s Andrew Wanyonyi, who won 9,348 votes, NVP’s Joseph Mburu and Moses Khaeya, an independent, who managed 5,719. After he was declared the winner by returning officer Bilha Kiptuge yesterday, Khaemba thanked residents for “your confidence in my leadership”. He said he will work hard in his second term to deliver on the promises he made. He said he would complete the projects he started in the first term. Some of the ongoing projects are the County Teaching and Referral Hospital, and the Bus Park Terminus. “We’ll do more for the people of Trans Nzoia,” Khaemba said. He urged those who lost to join him in working for the people, regardless of their party affiliations. Khaemba said he has a responsibility to to meet residents’ expectations. “I welcome all leaders elected in Trans Nzoia to join me in working for the good of the people of Trans Nzoia county,” he said. But Bissau rejected the overtures. He said IEBC officials and his agents were coerced by Khaemba into manipulating results in the incumbent’s favour. “There have been a lot of discrepancies in the results that are being announced. They have been tampered [and there were] physical alterations of figures in favour of my opponent,” Bissau said. He spoke yesterday at the Endebes constituency’s tallying centre after he delivered a court order to returning officer Agnes Nanjala to stop her from announcing the results. “Even my own agents broke an oath of confidentiality by allowing my results to be tampered with,” Bissau added. He said he will move to court to have the outcome annulled so they can go for a by-election. Another disappointed candidate was Senator Henry Ndiema, who lost narrowly to the Jubilee’s Michael Mbito. Mbito won 71,441 votes against the incumbent’s 70,822 votes. Ndiema sat pensively at the county tallying centre, looking frustrated. He objected after Mbito was declared the winner, but the election coordinator told him to take his grievances to court. Some new faces in the county are former Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny (JP). He won with 25,859 votes against Ford Kenya’s Patrick Simiyu, who had 18,887. Saboti MP seat was won by ODM’s Caleb Amisi. He had 19,466 votes  against 18,523 for JP’s Jonas Kuko. JP’s Janet Nangabo retained her woman MP seat with 98,768 votes against 85,628 for Christine Soita (Ford-K). 