NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga’s daughter, Rosemary, yesterday suffered a big blow after the government froze accounts belonging to an NGO associated with her. The accounts of Key Empowerment Foundation Kenya were frozen after the NGO received Sh530 million from the United States-based George Soros Foundation, named after its billionaire founder. “The Financial Reporting Centre is requested to investigate a possible case of using the foundations’ bank accounts as a cover-up for money laundering and diversion of donor aid,” NGO coordination board executive director Fazul Mahamed said. In a letter to Central Bank of Kenya Governor Patrick Njoroge yesterday, he demanded that CBK freezes the accounts for failing to comply with the law. “The purpose of this letter, therefore, is to advise your office to immediately identify and mark No Debit/No Credit all accounts held under the name ­— Key Empowerment Foundation — and initiate preservation of all funds held by the said foundation within the next 24 hours effective of this communication,” Fazul said. The Soros Foundation supports individuals and organisations fighting for freedom of expression, transparency, accountable government, and societies that promote justice and equality across the globe. Fazul alleged the foundation is operating several illegal unauthorised accounts. The letter said the aid agency that has funded the foundation is associated with subterfuge political activities globally and nefarious regime-change tactics. Fazul warned Njoroge that the funding is aided towards achieving a political agenda, which does not fall under the legal definition of charitable objectives. The directors of the foundation are Rosemary (trustee and patron), Jaqueline Moraa (chairperson) and Meshack Odede (secretary). Others are; Harold Omondi (treasurer), Sandra Adhiambo (board member) and Salome Owuonda (board member). Fazul said they interviewed Moraa, who confirmed that Rosemary runs all the affairs and financial transactions of the foundation, adding that there could be suspicious operations going on. He urged the financial reporting centre to start investigating the accounts.