Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua took the oath of office yesterday and promised to use his last term in completing projects. He was sworn-in by Machakos resident judge Lilian Mutende. The governor described his last five years as troublesome, saying his previous deputy governor and MCAs did not give him time to work for the people. “In my last five years, I actually did not take leave because every time I tried to do so, my deputy governor and some MCAs were scheming on how to topple my government,” Mutua said. He asked the incoming MCAs to ensure a cordial working relationship with the executive, saying infighting between the assembly and the executive is the reason why the majority of MCAs were not reelected. Mutua said he faced a lot of opposition in his administration, not because he had done anything wrong, but because there are those who felt his development record was a threat to their political careers. “I thank God because even as they tried hard to bury me, they forgot that I was a seed and would germinate again,” he said. Mutua said the political battle he faced was not between him and his competitor Wavinya Ndeti, but between himself and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. The governor extended an olive branch to his Ndeti, saying he is ready to work with her to improve the lives of Machakos people. “I have nothing against my worthy competitor Wavinya Ndeti. I know she was just a tool in the larger chase to sink Alfred Mutua,” he said. Mutua promised to use his second term to build more roads in the county, provide water to residents through construction of dams and sinking boreholes. The governor also said he will soon be reorganising his government to ensure efficient and effective provision of services to the people. “I will soon be making major realignments in my government and therefore I ask those corrupt officers who might be in the system to start packing because we are coming for you,” Mutua said. Deputy Governor Francis Maliti promised to be loyal to the governor, saying mistrust and infighting in the last administration was the reason development derailed. Maliti said their competitors gave them the opportunity to build their political muscles for a better and bigger challenge in future. The ceremony was attended by other elected leaders in the county including new Senator Boniface Kabaka, woman representative Joyce Kamene and MPs Charles Kilonzo of Yatta, Fabiani Kyule of Kandungo and Vincent Musyoka of Mwala. The leaders promised to join forces and work together for the benefit of residents. “We will be like a couple. If we differ we will sort it out in the bedroom. I will not be ready to be used by anyone to antagonise your government,” Kabaka said. Kamene said time for politics is in the past and it is time all elected leaders worked together. Wiper MPs kept off the function, which was also attended by senior national government officials led by the Health CS Cleopas Mailu. 