Is President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) a worried man ahead of tomorrow’s General Election? Right. The Friday night raid on the opposition’s tallying centre in Kilimani, allegedly by police, and the unjustifiable deportation of four foreign experts working for NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga, have raised eyebrows over Uhuru’s fear of losing. Many have termed the raid and deportation of an American, Canadian and two Ghanaian ICT experts as a ploy to scuttle NASA’s plan to guard its presidential votes streaming from 290 constituencies against any rigging attempt. An agitated NASA lawmaker was heard questioning why Jubilee is hard on foreign staffers working for the opposition, yet Uhuru has higher numbers of foreigners working for him at Jubilee Party headquarters in Nairobi. === Are some presidential candidates going into the election without a manifesto? Corridors has learnt that at least three candidates who want to be the next Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces have no existing manifesto buttressing the widely taken perception that, apart from President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga, the rest are just jokers out to harvest political fame with zero chances of winning. === A running mate of one of the governor contestants in the Mt Kenya region cheated death after an officer attached to his opponent drew a gun and almost shot him during the final political campaigns on Saturday. Corridors has received reports that the bodyguard was quickly disarmed and a firearm recovered from the official as he allegedly tried to shoot the deputy governor hopeful. A similar incident occurred in the same county during the 2007 polls, when a parliamentary official’s car was sprayed with bullets. === Did the IEBC extend the deadline for campaigns? On Sunday, many hours after the official campaigns ended, a city politician was spotted in a big caravan of shouting youths passing through Westlands heading to town, where the IEBC headquarters are located. The politician, though in non-branded vehicles, was waving to the people as the youths some in party colours shouted out his name throughout the journey. === Has the Kenya Urban Roads Authority inspected if the paving of pedestrian walkways and construction drainage systems on Nairobi’s Rabai-Mumias South –Outer Ring roads was ever completed? Residents wonder why the works were not completed on some sections of the roads and the contractor has not been on-site for two years. The junction to the Buruburu 1 Shopping Centre was left unpaved. The contractor should be compelled to clear and restore the one-time beautiful recreational garden near the Kenya Assemblies of God Church, where he heaped construction stones and murram.