NASA leader Raila Odinga's decision to challenge President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win at the Supreme Court is good, but it is "a little too late", Bura MP-elect Ali Wario (Jubilee) has said. On Wednesday, Raila said that with the raid on civil society organisations and determination to silence all voices that could seek legal redress, the coalition decided to move to the Supreme Court and lay before the world the making of a computer-generated leadership. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Wario said Kenyans can now go about their daily business and leave the rest to the courts to decide whether to uphold Uhuru's victory or not. He exuded confidence that the court will uphold Uhuru’s reelection. Wario said NASA lawyers have an uphill task in gathering evidence in all the 290 constituencies within a week. “This is one election that was above board. The US government, which has among the best intelligence gathering agents in the world who could have detected anomalies, approved the polls. I doubt NASA could come up with evidence that could overturn the results,” he said. “I urge Raila to sober up. Because he has opted to pursue the constitutionally provided channels, he should allow the court to decide and put this matter to rest without intimidating it.” Wario urged Kenyans to remain peaceful and embark on nation building. “Elections are over and it's time we join hands in building this great nation. Those who won or lost the election must come together and unite Kenyans,” he said. Regional and international observers approved the August 8 polls. UK Ambassador Nic Hailey said the decision will ensure justice is served to all parties. His US counterpart Robert Godec said any electoral concern should be challenged in court as enshrined in the Constitution, without causing unnecessary tension in the country. He urged Kenyans to remain calm and wait for the determination of the court. President Uhuru Kenyatta garnered 8,203,290 votes that translated to 54.2 per cent of the total votes cast against Raila’s 6,762,224 votes.