Kisumu governor candidate Anyang’ Nyong’o wants Nyanza AP police boss Joseph Keitany removed from Kisumu, saying he’s colluding to rig the election. He demands Keitany be recalled immediately to headquarters or be sent on leave until after the polls next Tuesday. Nyong’o has written to the Chief of Staff and the Head of Public Service in the Office of the President. He accused Keitany of colluding with Governor Jack Ranguma to rig next Tuesday’s polls. Ranguma has denied any collusion or plans to rig. In a letter dated August 31 and copied to the IEBC and police IG Joseph Boinnet, Nyong’o cited what he termed a breach of the Constitution, the Public Officer Ethics Act and other laws. He said Keitany has been misusing his office to influence the outcome of the election in Kisumu. This goes against the need for free, fair and credible polls, he added. Ranguma is running as an independent. He lost to Nyong’o in the ODM nominations. Nyong’o said he has information linking the AP boss to a number of meetings with Ranguma in which they hatched plans on how the incumbent can win. In the letter, he says that on different occasions, meetings have been held in the county with different officials, including a closed-door meeting that Keitany, IEBC officials from Nairobi and Ranguma attended. The senator says Keitany should leave the Kisumu immediately and cease to exercise police powers in the county from now on. Nyong’o has also officially complained that some people are buying identity cards from Kisumu and Siaya voters. “On behalf of the citizens of Kisumu county, I demand that the government take appropriate legal and administrative action against those responsible and the presiding officers and clerks adversely influenced by Ranguma and Keitany be removed from managing election in Kisumu county,” he says in the letter. The letter was also copied to the National Police Service chairman, the AU elections observer team and the ODM party leader. There is no love lost between Ranguma and Nyong’o in the race and the two have traded accusations. Nyong’o says the incumbent is keen to rig the poll using security agencies. He also accuses Ranguma of mismanaging the county and using its funds to enrich himself. During a debate in Tom Mboya Labour College, Kisumu, Nyong’o said the county has great potential, but has sadly underperformed because of poor leadership. Ranguma denies he has run down Kisumu. He accuses the senator of maligning him and being driven by malice. He said he is certain of winning because there will be no room for manipulating the election “as happened during the ODM primaries”. Others in the race are Atieno Otieno of the Jubilee Party, David Otieno of the Alternative Leadership Party and PC Omollo.