Kisii voters elected their MPs based on their electoral pledges and not along party lines. The county is considered a battleground. Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti, Bomachoge Borabu’s Joel Onyancha  and his  Bomachoge Chache counterpart Simon Ogari lost their seats. The lawmakers were running on the Jubilee ticket. Onyancha had been viewed as the biggest beneficiary in the political realignments in Kisii in the run-up to Tuesday’s election. Two of his main rivals were named running mates by governor hopefuls. MPs from other parties, including independents, were voted in. In Bomachoge Borabu, Prof  Zadock Ogutu, who was denied an ODM ticket, ditched the party to run as independent. He trounced incumbent Onyancha with a margin of 2, 791 votes. Ogutu garnered 14,112 votes against Onyancha’s 11, 321. The incoming lawmaker said he wants to correct the mess created by the outgoing MP since he came into office four-and-a-half years ago. “Even though I won the seat as an independent candidate, I will serve all the people. The majority have shown they have trust in me by giving me the opportunity,” Ogutu said. He said one of his priorities will be to unite the people because some are divided along clans. In development, the MP-elect said his leadership will be all-inclusive. Ogutu indicated he will give residents an opportunity to suggest projects according to their needs, promising he will prioritise them. Alfah Miruka of KNC, a newcomer in politics, floored incumbent Ogari with 19,162 votes against 3, 818. The 34-year-old Miruka defeated eight other candidates. “I want to take this early opportunity to thank all my constituents for giving me this opportunity to serve them. I want to assure them that I will not fail them,” Miruka said. He said he is not impressed by the manner his rival has been running the affairs of the constituency, especially in  regards to development. Miruka said residents should expect major changes. Innocent Obiri of PDP beat Manoti of Bobasi constituency. Obiri said he has made a stab at the parliamentary seat twice – in 2007 and 2013 – but was unsuccessful. “I have been facing stiff competition from my opponent, but this time residents have decided to give me a chance to serve them,” Obiri said. Obiri, a surveyor, spoke yesterday at Nyamache Boys High School constituency tallying centre. In the August 8 General Election, only two Jubilee MPs retained their seats. Richard Tongi of Nyaribari Chache and Kitutu Chache North’s Jimmy Angwenyi garnered 13,730 votes and 14,999 respectively. Zaheer Jhanda of Wiper and Lucas Ogamba of ODM were the main challengers of Tong’i and Angwenyi. Jhanda got  11, 316 and Ogamba 6,022.  In Bobasi constituency, all MCAs who were elected in 2013 lost their seats to newcomers.  