Kenya is losing up to Sh10 billion annually due to increased illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities within the country’s exclusive economic zone, Agriculture CS Willy Bett has said. Kenya’s Indian Ocean border falls within 200 nautical miles seawards, but fishermen have been unable to exploit the resources for lack of equipment and expertise. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing undermines resource conservation, threatens food security and livelihoods. “IUU fishing is also linked to other crimes, including labour associated crimes, money laundering, fraud, human trafficking, drugs and arms dealing,” Bett said. He said between 11 and 26 million tonnes of seafood valued at $10-23.5 billion (Sh1-24 trillion) are lost annually due to IUU-related fishing worldwide. “IUU fishing is a serious problem affecting economies worldwide. Kenya is not the exception,” Bett said. He spoke on Tuesday during the commissioning of a Sh280 million Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Centre and National Fish Quality laboratories at the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute in Mkomani, Mombasa. “The centre has been set up to monitor our EEZ. It houses the Vessel Monitoring System and Automatic Identification System, which is a surveillance tool for monitoring our EEZ to detect compliant and IUU vessels,” Bett said. He said the increased threat to global economies through IUU fishing and related crimes calls for collective intervention by the international community. Kenya is committed to pursuing this cause, Bett said. “The monitoring, control and surveillance centre will serve as the command point for the operation of the soon-to-be-commissioned offshore patrol vessel - PV Doria,” he said. Kenya has subscribed to the FAO Blue Growth Initiative and has adopted the United Nations sustainable development goals, which recognise the important role of oceans, seas, lakes and rivers in human development. Kenya has a National Tuna Fisheries Development and Management Strategy for the years 2013 through to 2018. It provides a roadmap for the sustainable development of the Kenya’s tuna fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone and ensures an efficient value chain. “Tuna fisheries are an important tradable commodity with a global commercial catch value of $3 billion (Sh300 million),” Bett said. Kenya is located strategically in the tuna-rich belt of the Western Indian Ocean region. “Earlier estimates indicate that the tuna fishery in the Kenyan EEZ has the potential of between 150,000 and 300,000 metric tonnes,” Bett said.