There was drama in Skuta, a residential estate near Nyeri town, after a bishop was busted with someone’s wife in broad daylight yesterday. The 40-year-old Bishop Timothy Wanyoike, who heads one of the evangelical churches in Nyeri town, was caught pants down with a pregnant woman, who is also his sister-in-law. Kariuki Macharia, the husband of a 21-year-old Scholar Kariuki, found her with Wanyoike in their one–bedroom rented apartment. As soon as he caught them, Macharia descended on Wanyoike with blows and kicks. It is said Wanyoike’s wife, Margaret, joined Macharia in beating her husband in fury. Macharia said his wife has been carrying an illicit affair with the bishop for the last four years. He said he has been monitoring his wife’s text messages and decided to lay a trap for them yesterday. Those who laid the trap tricked the lovers that they had gone to Nyeri for a field assignment, but stayed behind waiting for them to have their rendezvous. Residents jammed Skuta estate, at the outskirts of Nyeri town, to catch a glimpse of the cleric. Apparently, even after he was busted, he shamelessly walked away without offering an apology. Some Sh10,500, which the man of God had brought to his lover, was recovered at the scene. Wanyoike, who had left his car at a nearby pub, was seriously injured on the head and blood was trickling down his face. His T-shirt had been torn off. His pair of shoes was also found at the scene. Armed police in full riot gear arrived and rescued Wanyoike. The bishop was later detained the at Nyeri Divisional Police station. In 2014, the police in Embu prevented irate residents from burning an Embu pastor’s car after he was caught with a married wife. Angry residents invaded the Embu town’s Kenya Assembly of God church after Antony Maina arrived from a lodging in Nyeri, where he had allegedly been making love with the woman. Witnesses said immediately residents saw the car registration No KBT 756 V being driven in the church’s compound after the widely televised love saga, they gathered there and attempted to flush him out. The witnesses said the pastor fled through the back door leaving the residents attempting to break into the compound to burn the car. On realising the danger that was hovering on the church some leaders called the police for protection as the crowd swelled up. Anti-riot police officers from the Embu Police station led by Deputy OCS Dominic Nduto Muoki arrived armed with guns and guarded the church. The police then called a breakdown which towed the car to the Embu police station where it will remain for protection from the irate residents. During the incident the residents were shouting they wanted to lynch him.      