Chaos erupted at a NASA rally in Mombasa on Friday as supporters of Governor Hassan Joho and Senator Hassan Omar clashed. ODM and Wiper supporters engaged in a shouting match as each group demanded to be addressed by the respective leaders. ODM supporters began to protest when NASA deputy presidential candidate Kalonzo Musyoka arrived at Mama Ngina grounds with Omar. On their part, Wiper supporters raised concerns over an election banner placed at the back of the main stage that bore the portraits of governors Hassan Joho and Amazon Kingi. Kalonzo was unable to calm the situation as several angry youths climbed on the stage.  Armed officers arrive at Mama Ngina grounds in Mombasa where NASA was holding a rally, August 4, 2017. /ELKANA JACOB "Tafadhali twawaomba vijana mtoke kwa jukwaa. Msiharibu ushindi wetu tafadhali," Kalonzo said as he tried to get them off stage. Raila Odinga and other NASA principals were seated behind the commotion and were shielded by their body guards. Shortly after, Raila and Musalia Mudavadi managed to get the youths off stage for the rally to continue.  Senator Hassan Omar with NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka at Mama Ngina grounds, Mombasa, August 4, 2017. /BRIAN OTIENO "We are all NASA people. We must show respect. You are shaming us," Mudavadi said. The leaders called for residents to vote in NASA candidates and "discipline" Jubilee's governor candidate Suleiman Shahbal.  Crowds get off a stage at Mama Ngina grounds in Mombasa where NASA was holding a rally, August 4, 2017. /ELKANA JACOB But Joho supporters jeered Omar when he got on stage to address the crowd. "I knew you would come to make noise. But things will be seen on Tuesday. We will change Mombasa. We will create employment. Mombasa is NASA. Mombasa is Hassan Omar," the Senator said. Joho expressed confidence that he will defend his seat, adding he will be a key individual in Raila's administration. Read: Joho wins opinion polls, not elections, Omar says after governor leads in Mombasa     