Call him the bullfighter or the loser. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale’s (pictured) loss in his bid for Kakamega governor sparked celebrations far afield. The no-nonsense former chairman of the powerful Senate Public Accounts Committee was instrumental in advancement of a number of impeachment motions against governors and his former role came back to haunt him. When the Kakamega gubernatorial results were declared, there were wild celebrations in Embu, 700km away. Why? Khalwale chaired the committee that twice unsuccessfully impeached Governor Martin Wambora. Ominously, anyone believed to have participated in impeachment was defeated in last week’s polls. === It sounds politically laughable, but a member of the Bar has a brilliant idea about how to restore calm in the country following declaration of disputed presidential poll results. Advocate Alofonsi Weda, a senior officer at a statutory board, has appealed for the inclusion of all NASA principals in the Jubilee Cabinet. He says mentioning them by name in the new Cabinet would soothe the raging hearts of opposition supporters. He said by doing this people who voted for the Right Honourable Engineer Raila Amolo Odinga will feel accommodated in the government. === A wave of panic has gripped government offices following reports that the Jubilee administration is plotting a sweeping reshuffle and reorganisation of state departments. The adjustments are said to be aimed at civil servants who enjoy a cozy relationship with the defeated NASA. Although, in his reelection acceptance speech, the President emphasised running an all-inclusive government, some of the civil servants who campaigned for the opposition believe they could be staring at a purge. It remains unclear when the programme will start, but Corridors has established that it would commence immediately the President is sworn in on August 29. === Just where is vocal Chama Cha Mashinani leader and outgoing Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto? The once fiercest opposition key point-man in the South Rift has not been seen in public after last Tuesday’s General Election. The governor suffered a twin tragedy after he lost his seat and NASA failed to capture the presidency. His hopes for a powerful Cabinet post in the NASA ‘government’ blew up in flames when the opposition was defeated by Jubilee. Rutto’s critics are asking if he hibernated to re-strategise a comeback. === Former Kisii political heavyweight Omingo Magara has declared that two MPs who were elected on his PDP ticket must work with Jubilee. But aren’t the MPs-elect intelligent enough to work for the interests of their electorates rather than blindly follow the party leader?