Three new players have been included in the 14-member team after the first round of trimming the national women’s under 23 side ahead of the FIVB World U-23 Championships in Ljubljana and Maribor, Slovenia from September 10-17. Middle blocker Carolyne Sirengo, outside hitter Joan Ngeywo and KCB’s Lucy Sakong are the new inclusions in Catherine Mabwi’s outfit. However, two players will face the axe again when Mabwi will be required name the traveling 12 early September. FIVB regulations require that all age group teams field a team of 12 in world events, contrary to the Confederation of African Volleyball which allows 12 players in its competitions regardless of the age group. The three replace former captain Pauline Wafula and Kenya Defence Forces duo of Maurine Ekiru and Damaris Chepkorom who did not join the team for various reasons. The other 11 took part in the continental qualification last October in Nairobi, where the finished second to book a place in the world showpiece. They include team captain Shyrine Jepkemboi, her assistant setter Faith Imodia, Veronica Tanui, left attackers Edinah Mwombe, Doreen Marani, Yvonne Wavinya, middle blockers Anne Lowem, Beldine Akinyi, Yvonne Sinaida, libero players Celestine Nyongesa and Sarah Were. Among those who were dropped are Teresia Ekai, Lilian Lelei, Pamela Chepkurom, Meldine Sande, Metrine Wafula and Shyrene Sembei. Head coach Mabwi whose squad leave Nairobi on September 8 is confident of her charges and is positive that the girls will give a good account of themselves in the Slovenia games. “The girls have improved a lot and have bonded well and are playing as a cohesive unit,” said Mabwi. Kenya featured in the first edition of the women’s U23 world show in 2013 in Mexico where the team placed 12 after losing all their matches. The coach intimated that they are looking to place Kenya (U23) side in the top 10 globally. The team is currently ranked 13 by FIVB. “Our standards have improved and we want to translate that into performance and rating by executing our plans well. When you (we) play well, beating an opponent is very easy,” added the former Kenyan international outside hitter.