Jubilee Party is expected to win several seats at the Coast, political analysts in the region have said. The region voted overwhelmingly for opposition in 2013. With less than a week to the polls, Jubilee Party is seen to have invested heavily in the Coast, with President Uhuru Kenyatta visiting the region at least five times since December to launch projects. This year alone, Uhuru has been at the Coast in January, March, May, and July and now in August. Between 2013-16, the President only came to the region twice – on August for the Annual Agricultural Show and in December for the Christmas holidays. Political analyst Philip Kaulu from the Technical University of Mombasa says Jubilee Party might not hurt NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga's popularity, but will win at least 40 per cent of the region’s votes. In 2013, Uhuru performed dismally in the polls, winning only two MP seats in Kinango and Taveta. Uhuru is eyeing to share the 1.7 million votes at the Coast with the opposition and his numerous trips to the Coast have made significant impact, Kaulu said. “The voting pattern at the Coast will change this election. Raila will maintain the lead, but the gap between him and Uhuru will be smaller compared to 2013,” he said. In 2017, all the six counties of the Coast – Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu and Taita Taveta – have registered 1,713,151 voters. Mombasa has 580,223 voters, Kilifi 508,068 and Kwale with 281,041. These counties are the battle grounds for both Jubilee and NASA. Other counties are Tana River with 118,327 registered voters, Taita Taveta 155,716 and Lamu 69,776. Speaking to the Star in Mombasa town yesterday, Kaulu said Kwale, Tana River and Lamu counties are believed to be pro-Jubilee, even though the opposition says they are still under their territory. He said Uhuru is courting the Mijikendas, who are the majority in three counties of Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi. Getting their votes will be an added advantage. “The reason why Uhuru has been coming to Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale counties frequently is because of the Mijikenda votes. They are key in the election decision at the Coast,” Kaulu said. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Kilifi’s Amason Kingi have vowed to ensure their regions remain under NASA and Raila wins the General Election next week. However, Kaulu says three coastal governors Issa Timamy (Lamu), Tana River’s Hussein Dado and Kwale’s Salim Mvurya are supporting Uhuru’s reelection. These three governors were elected on NASA affiliated parties in 2013. Timamy is vying for his reelection on ANC, which is under NASA, but has not shied away from supporting Uhuru. Mvurya and Dado were in ODM and Wiper, but all decamped to Jubilee. “You should not be surprised seeing Uhuru getting at least three governors from the Coast. He will also get more votes from Taita Taveta, Mombasa and Kilifi counties, which are seen to be pro-Raila,” Kaulu said.      