Your Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta, President and Commander in Chief of this great Republic, Deputy President William Ruto, Presiding Judge, Governor Elect Mike Mbuvi Sonko, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, My fellow Nairobians, Allow me to begin by congratulating Mike Sonko as the new Governor of Nairobi City County and I do this well aware as a Christian that it is God who chooses leaders and installs governments and rules the realm of mankind according to his purpose. I wish to thank Nairobians for giving Mueke and I this great responsibility, entrusting us with affairs of the city with as the first Governor and deputy governor, after the promulgation of the new constitution that gave birth to county governments. We were humbled by their trust in us and we are proud of having steered the greatest county in Kenya through the great change as we worked to implement Devolution, while working to put the affairs of the city in order. I do not have the words to express my gratitude to the Nairobi voters who had placed me in this history-making position. May it suffice for me to simply say: thank you, thank you very much to all those that believed in and voted for us both in 2013 and in the just-concluded elections. I am thankful to the all of my associates and colleagues in Nairobi county, who worked tirelessly for the benefit of the people of Nairobi. To them I say, you have all served very well, and for that I, and all Nairobians thank you. I am eternally grateful to my family, to my wife Susan and my children, and greater family. and to the members of my campaign team, whom I also regard as family, and all the people who supported me in various capacities during the campaign. LAWS PUT IN PLACE Today Nairobi will witness a hallmark of our democracy: the peaceful transfer of power from one freely-elected governor to the next. I committed to Nairobians that my administration would ensure the smoothest possible transition, and this is what I am here to do. When I was elected as the first governor of Nairobi City in March 2013 the list of challenges seemed endless. I walked into City Hall where workers had not been paid in over six months. Infrastructure was nonexistent, public transport insufficient and our signature health institutions and educational facilities were dilapidated and the staff demoralized; our largely un-serviced informal settlements accounting for 60 per cent of city residents; and the lack of support systems for small scale businesses, the perennial problem of youth unemployment, we faced an overwhelming demand for service without commensurate capacity for the County to provide the same. In addressing these concerns and many others pertaining to the day-to-day management of the affairs of the City of Nairobi county, as the first county Administration, we first needed to put in place legislation that guided our work, such as the County Government Act, The Financial Management Act and Law, the Procurement Act, the Urban Areas and Cities Act to mention but a few. Governor Sonko….yes, as you can see I have no problem calling you that….if there is one thing that nobody doubts it is that you and I love this city very much. And like jealous lovers, we fought about it often, each trying to prove our worth. As I reflect, I can’t help but wonder where we would be if we had worked more closely to build this city that we both love. She has chosen you, but that doesn’t mean that I don’t want the very best for her. So to this end Governor, my one request to you is this. We have given Nairobi many gifts and were working on giving her significantly more. Immediately after being sworn in, my team and I embarked building a better city where residents accessed services to improve lives as embodied in our seven pillars.  Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero hands over to Mike Sonko during his inauguration as Uhuru Park, August 21, 2017. /COURTESY ACHIEVEMENTS We made our mark and achieved some important international accolades. Some of our successes include: We digitized the payment systems making it far easier and raising revenues collected; We grew revenue collection from and while this may have been painful, it resulted in our being able to regularise the pay of the city county, and our county workers were paid on time, or within the month, not six months as we found it. I am proud to say we ran a government and promoted a city with better intra-ethnic relations. There was no room for tribalism in my Government and there cannot be any in Nairobi. We also embarked on an ambitious plan for the city of Nairobi and we have initiated some signature projects which are poised to come to fruition including: i) Affordable Housing through the Urban Renewal Project ii) Signed contract for waste disposal and management system  Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and his wife Susan Mboya during Mike Sonko's inauguration as Uhuru Park, August 21, 2017. /COURTESY "TOUGH TIMES AHEAD" As President Abraham Lincoln once said “Elections belong to the people. It's their decision”. What my team and I have done is there for everyone to see and I know posterity will judge us fairly as the first pioneers of devolution. It is my hope and prayer that these projects will be realised within the coming years and I know that with proper stewardship, this dream will be achievable and much more. However it would not be fair for me to pretend that this job is a bed of roses. The biggest challenge facing the vision we set out for Nairobi City County is adequate funding as the CRA formula did not take into account the unique nature of services and the corresponding financial requirements. This is something that I fought passionately for and I hope that you will now take over this fight. Without this change, your government will face tremendous challenges, as mine did, and Nairobi city administrators will not be able to deliver what is expected of them. The debt burden which I carried and you will continue with can only be resolved by the national government acting as all Nairobians do and paying for their services. As the old ADAGE goes, “There is no free lunch”. There will be tough times ahead and there are those who will try to distract and discourage you. Only someone who has walked in your shoes knows where the shoe pinches. It is very easy to criticize from the outside. Let nobody discourage you. Remember these famous words of President Thomas Jefferson: “It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat” I conclude by urging all Nairobians that it is the responsibility of all of us to make sure that our wonderful city succeeds and that Kenya prospers. That must be our commitment as citizens. Always remember that I, too, want only the best for Nairobi and I will continue to do what I can to ensure that Nairobi succeeds; My wife Susan says that she is glad to have got me back from the “other woman” Nairobi. But know that I am always available for consultations if you need me. I take this time to wish you all the best of success as you play your role in our nation building. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless our Great Nairobi City County. 