The brazen lone attack on the Deputy President's rural residence in Sugoi, Uasin Gishu county, has left the country in deep shock and bewildered. Mercifully, William Ruto and family were away, otherwise we would now be facing Kenya’s worst-case scenario. Ruto may be a garrulous and abrasive politician, yet all are in agreement that he didn’t deserve this. What was the purpose of the attack? The incident comes a few days before the August 8 General Election, raising eyebrows and speculation at the real motive of the attack. Many wonder whether the attack could have been politically motivated and, if so, by whom? NASA says the attack was stage-managed so a state of emergency could be declared to justify the deployment of military personnel during the electioneering period. Others were of the view that it could have been a terrorist attack. As the news spread, locals armed themselves with crude weapons such as spears and machetes to defend Ruto. Elite troops such the GSU Recce unit and military Special Forces were quickly deployed and neutralised the intruder(s). Questions abound on the state of our national security. If the residence of a Deputy President, guarded round the clock by a company of elite General Service Unit officers can be overrun by a machete-wielding thug, then who is safe in Kenya? Was this a simple security lapse, an act of extreme negligence or plain sabotage? The safety and security of all citizens and our leaders in particular is a matter of national importance and interest. With the country tense, politically and emotionally charged, injury or assassination of a political leader at this point in history can push a seriously fractured nation over the precipice, leading to a civil war. One may not agree with the policies of President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ruto, Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, et al, but their constitutional rights and security are sacrosanct. This is not negotiable. Kenyans call on our security agencies to swiftly investigate this brazen act of desecration with a view to bringing all culprits to book. Officials in our security agencies have serious questions to answer and, if found negligent, they must do the honest thing and resign. Kenyans are not prepared to compromise national security under any circumstances. Conspiracy theorists are of the view that there is more than meets the eye. They contend rightly, or wrongly, that marked ballot boxes were stored at the residence. Opposition leaders got wind of this development and informed international election observers who immediately planned to visit and search the home. Word on the grapevine indicates that the authorities decided to create a war or hostage situation by deploying Special Weapons and Tactics Commandos to create a war zone. Armed personnel carriers and heavy artillery were deployed, thus dissuading election observers from visiting the residence. The veracity of these allegations still requires confirmation. The kidnap and murder of IEBC IT manager Chris Msando throws an interesting spin on the whole issue. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, in characteristic fashion, let loose his tongue by stating that Msando was engaged in late-night carousing. This was not to be as Msando’s cold and badly bruised body was located at the City Mortuary. More questions now abound as to who murdered the young man. The million-dollar question remains on who would have been intent on the elimination of Msando? The official opposition who have accused the IEBC of planning to rig the election, or Jubilee, or persons unknown?   