Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) go to polls on October 28 in Nairobi. KHU vice chairperson Elina Shiveka said the union have send a letter to Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Art, notifying it of their intended dates of elections. “If the ministry approves the letter, then it will be all system go. Before then, the affiliates will have to hold their elections between September 16 and 30,” said the official. The affiliates are Nairobi, Coast, Central, Western, Rift Valley and Kenya Hockey Umpires Association. During the last elections in 2013, Nashon Randiek was voted chairman with Shiveka retaining the position of vice chairperson seat, Davinder Singh was elected secretary general. The KHU council meeting is set for September 2 with rectification and adoption of the affiliates constitution as the only agenda. The adoption of the constitution of the affiliates entails that the branches recognizes the sport and any activity is run by the Union. Meanwhile, Africa Hockey Federation (AHF) have confirmed that the 2017 African Cup of Nations (ACN) will be staged in Egypt from October 19 to 29. The tournament will host both male and female teams of countries that will make the cut to the event. Countries that are likely to feature in this years tournament include 7-time men and 6-times women’s champions South Africa, World League Round 2 representative Ghana, host Egypt, Kenya, Nigeria, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Botswana and Zambia. Commenting on the preparations of the national teams, Shiveka said the players (men and women) have been undergoing evening training sessions at the City Park Stadium. “The teams have been training on Monday and Friday (men) and Tuesday and Thursday (women). But due to elections we have shelved the training and we hope to resume in due time,” said Sifuna. She continued: “All this while, the sessions have been open to all players but when they resume, a provisional squad will be picked by the technical bench attached the teams that would later be trimmed ahead of the event.”