Independent candidate Chebii Kilimo yesterday
rejected results of MP election in Marakwet East. She said reports that area MP Kangogo Bowen had been reelected from results announced were fake. Bowen garnered 14,850 votes and Kilimo got 13,855. Kilimo said violence, voter bribery and intimidation dominated the election in the area. She is demanding the arrest of police officers who
shot at a crowd outside the tallying centre. On Wednesday evening, a woman was shot dead and
five others were injured by security officers as tallying of votes was going on at
Chesoi CDF office, Marakwet. Kilimo says the shooting incident was deliberately
done to so that fake results are announced. Kilimo said there was an
assassination attempt on her, adding the officers also fired bullets on her
car. She produced spent bullet cartridges and a video
recording of how the officers fired at a crowd of people. Kilimo said the woman who was shot dead and the injured were not within the tallying centre and had not provoked police
in any way. “I have witnesses who were told to move away from my car," she said. Kilimo said her car was packed more than a kilometre
away from the tallying center and police who fired the bullets at the car had
been sent to kill her. “There was no election in Marakwet East and I cannot
accept what happened. The fake results were announced, but I will move to court
to seek justice,” Kilimo said. She spoke to journalists in Eldoret. Kilimo said security officers and IEBC officials
colluded with the agents of Bowen to inflate figures in favour of the MP and produce
fake results. “I will go to court not to demand a recount, but a repeat of polls. This is
because of the violence and intimidation of voters along with massive bribery,” she
said. But Bowen immediately denied he was involved in
any polls malpractice. He urged Kilimo to concede defeat. “She is free to go to
court, but I advise her not to waste time but to join me in building Marakwet
East,” Bowen told the Star yesterday. Area police commander Tom Odera said they are
investigating the shooting incident. He said police would give a report after investigations.   