Some women from Western Kenya are very unhappy with First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. Reason? The thousands of members of Maendeleo Ya Wanawake are drawn from various Western counties. At the weekend they were subjected to what they described as “high-level injustice and torture” by the First Lady and their organisation’s chairperson after a meeting in Kakamega. === It is said the women from five counties thronged the meeting venue using their own fare, hoping to be refunded as had earlier been communicated, something that never happened. The First Lady and other officials left the group in a dilemma, not knowing how they would return home late in the evening. === Word has it that those who failed to raise funds from their family, relatives and friends before dusk fell were forced to spend the night in cold tents after the organisers refused to pick their calls. Corridors learnt that, at some point, the desperate women were forced out of the tents by owners demanding their facilities and leaving the women regretting attending Margaret’s function. === Lawyers call themselves ‘learned friends’ yet the behaviour of some members of this noble profession doesn’t reflect the honour and trust society bestows on them. Take the latest report of the Advocates’ Complaint Commission, for instance. Over the last three months alone, five lawyers have been struck off the Roll of Advocates. Six others were suspended for professional misconduct: The main reason being withholding funds from clients. Maybe LSK boss Isaac Okero should lead the lawyers’ fraternity in soul- searching. === Ever wondered how top government secrets are leaked to the opposition? Now Corridors has been informed that a Principal Secretary in one of the ministries has been receiving huge sums of money every week to purchase intelligence from other government departments before wiring the same information to the opposition leaders. The PS, who is said to be dating a wealthy businessman from the Mt Kenya region, who is also the source of the weekly money, was over the weekend spotted with Mr Moneybags in Voi, Taita Taveta county. A source in the ministry, situated in Upper Hill area of Nairobi, whispered to Corridors that the Cabinet Secretary has even written a letter of warning to the PS and an engineer in the ministry who has been acting as the link person between the PS and the tycoon. === A Jubilee Governor from Mt Kenya who is seeking another term is embroiled in controversy after a 20-second video clip went viral showing him declaring his allegiance to NASA.