Did IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati (pictured) conduct this election with a pool of illiterate Presiding Officers? Well, Corridors, going through some of the Forms 34A posted on the IEBC portal, came about a Form 34A from Kathugu Primary School 1, Kaagari South ward, in Runyenjes constituency, which raises the question on the calibre of POs entrusted with this all-important national duty. The forms indicated that President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA candidate Raila Odinga personally signed the forms as at the polling station on August 8, before the Presiding Officer, after their agents stationed at the station left the counting hall when tallying was underway. === Newly elected Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s style of leadership and taking over the county’s administration even before being sworn in, has pleasantly surprised both NASA and Jubilee supporters in the city. Sonko’s first task was to get rid of garbage heaps in the city using his Sonko Rescue Team, even before he officially took over the county government’s leadership yesterday. Some NASA supporters were heard maintaining that they cannot back Jubilee, but will endorse Sonko for 2022 reelection if he delivers on his promises. Whether he will maintain the momentum of bringing Nairobi to its lost glory of the Green City in the Sun, only time will tell. === A disgraced former administrator in the Ministry of Devolution is desperately fighting to be included in the list of new Principal Secretaries set to be appointed in the next Jubilee government. Since the man, who is facing corruption charges, lost in the just concluded election, he has been busy lobbying for the job. Last week, the man sent elders to senior Jubilee officials days after the Public Service Commission placed advertisements for the PS positions in local newspapers. So broke is the man that he is said to have recently borrowed Sh30,000 for his upkeep. === Power is sweet, they say. None best exemplifies this than one of the governors who lost in the August 8 polls. The governor, who had transformed himself into a small god in his county, could not stand the sight of handing over power to his rival during the inauguration ceremony yesterday. The outgoing governor instead snubbed the fete and sent a junior officer who handed over the reins of power to the new governor. Power is so sweet that shrugging off its trappings is no joke.AN immediate former MCA in a South Rift county is said to be in deep depression after it dawned on him last week that he was a broke man. A mole tells Corridors the man, a chairman of a Roads committee, went to his ATM only to find that he had a balance of less than Sh50,000.