NASA Core principlal Moses Wetang’ula has
said that NASA coalition will only accept a free, fair, transparent and
credible polls from the electoral agency. Speaking to the press after casting his vote
at Namakhele primary school in West Nalondo ward  at  Kabuchai constituency
Wetangula expressed confident that NASA is going to win the polls by a lands
slide. Wetangula said that the vote turnout in western
region from calls he has received and made apart from the few polling stations
he has visited are very high. He said that voters have woken up very earlier
to cast their votes and bring change in the country from Jubilee yoke that has
made the cost of living unbearable we have had a few incidents of hitches here
in Bungoma like in Webuye West Khalala polling station the presidential ballot
boxes were missing and only came at around 9;00AM after Chebukati was informed and
he had to intervene. Wetang’ula ho showed up to cast his vote with
his wife, son and daughter said that his elder daughter Sylvia Wetangula has found
her name missing from the voter registatr and has been denied to vote. He said that it’s better to have a voter’s
name missing and denied to vote than to have people being forced to vote when their
names are missing on the list He urged Kenyans from all corners of the
country to turn out in large numbers and exercise their right to choose leaders
of their choice who are in NASA coalition and who will propel this country ahead
by bringing real development ‘We have made it clear as NASA time and time
again that if this polls will be free fare and credible at all the stages of
voting, counting, tallying , transmission and final announcement will have no difficult
in accepting the outcome,’ he said. He said that where there will be misconduct and
electoral offences NASA will take appropriate legal measures to protect the interest
of kenyans. Wetangula wished Kenyans free and credible
polls saying that may the best team win and serve Kenyans diligently. Wetangula said that they are there ‘If anyone wants to take shortcuts and temper
with the voting  process and crating fatuous
figure in favor of any candidates as nasa will employ every means necessary to
defend the democracy of the country and take action that reflects the will of
people,’ he said. He said from the reports he is receiving across
the country NASA might get sixty percent of voter turnout in this election. The Ford Kenya party boss was also accompanied
by Ford Kenya women rep nominee Catherine Wambilianga who said that the process
in ongoing smoothly as security has also been beefed up0 in most polling stations. She said that she has received reports of her
ballot papers missing in Sirisia constituency and has raised the matter with
IEBC. Bungoma Ford Kenya candidate Wycliffe Wangamati
casted his vote at 11;00AM  am at
Nalutiri polling station in Kanduyi constituency and expressed confident that
ford Kenya will form the next county government. Wangamati said that due to the large turnout
Ford Kenya will definitely have most of the MCAs in the county assembly. As a part we have done our campaigns and
arcoding to our numbers we will clinch victorious. He asked IEBC to ensure the process is
credible. Bungoma ODM nominee Alfred Khanagti cast his
vote and also expressed confident of winning asking residents to turn out in
large numbers and vote for Raila Odinga who will redeem Kenya. Spot check by the star in most polling stations
revealed long ques across the county that has 500055 thousand  votes with nine constituencies . Ends.. 