Politics can be hilarious at times. An MP from Nyanza region perceived to be a Jubilee mole is in trouble. The MP who is defending his seat on an ODM ticket is said to have been advised to follow Raila Odinga in his recent visit to South Africa so that he would get an opportune moment to convey an apology. The man was openly flirting with Jubilee and at one time denigrated the former PM on national TV. It is said Raila has flatly rejected his overtures meant to win ODM primaries. The man is finding it rough on the ground. Aspirants are currently using unorthodox means in NASA strongholds, throwing Raila's name right left and centre to win the coalition's ticket.A senior Jubilee politician literally broke into laughter in Parliament after a renegade Wiper MP intoned to him that his party boss Kalonzo Musyoka had confided to close confidants that he could have stage-managed his trip to Dubai as a political calculation to snub yesterday's Nasa rally at Mathare. The influential Jubilee defender claimed that Jubilee alliance was aware that Kalonzo will soon take off from NASA and launch his own presidential bid to spoil the opposition's chance. "We are just counting days, Kalonzo just took off from the country to avoid this rally," said the MP as he chided the opposition outfit along the corridors of Parliament. But Kalonzo eventually flew back from Dubai just in time and attended the rally yesterday.Following the entry of nominated MP Johnson Sakaja into the Nairobi Senate race, ODM is reportedly crafting a political scheme to consider bringing on board fiery Jubilee critic Tony Watima who is eyeing the Dagorreti North Parliamentary seat to counter the former TNA chairman. Watima is behind a petition in the Senate seeking public officers to make public their wealth and conflicts of interest. The aim of bringing on board the 29-year-old is meant to check-mate Sakaja's rise into the helm of city politics and puncture his elective politics dream. Watima, who broke into the limelight after an exclusive interview with Forbes Magazine &ndash; Corruption and Tenderprenuers Bring Kenya Economy to its Knees - will run as an independent candidate. ODM and NASA as a coalition are yet to indicate its candidate(s) for the Nairobi Senate seat, four months to the polls.Has Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi eaten the humble pie and shelved his ambition for governor? Well, we are informed the regional ally of Deputy President William Ruto, could have put out his interests in favour of Kisii Senator Chris Obure who is running for the seat on a Jubilee ticket. The deputy governor's bid for the Jubilee ticket had threatened the ruling alliance's chances to unseat governor James Ongwae at the polls in August 8. Our small bird told us that the resolution was reached after Ruto met the two in Kisii together with Jubilee leaders from the region.