Kinangop residents have agreed to vote for one of their own to be Nyandarua governor.The Kinangop declaration was made in Njabini town on Sunday, when governor aspirant Peter Gathimba launched his manifesto and his official campaigns.Gathimba lost to incumbent Daniel Waithaka in 2013 with less than 3,000 votes. He was appointed a county executive but resigned last month.Addressing a rally, Gathimba said the Kinangop part of Nyandarua South has more than 120,000 voters while Kipipiri has about 50,000 registered voters. "All you need is to decide that all these votes go to Gathimba," he saidHe said this time Nyandarua South will not be deceived. &ldquo;It has been said that we, particularly in Kinangop, are always contented with tea and mandazi. This is an insult," he said.Gathimba and other leaders gathered at the rally accused Waithaka of concentrating projects in Nyandarua North.Gathimba said he commands support across the entire county and pledged to be everyone's governor. "Kipipiri, Ol, kalou, Ol joro orok and Ndaragwa have also declared their support for me. Nyandarua is one," he said.Former Kinangop MP and now Nyandarua senator aspirant David Ngugi said, "With the number of votes which we command we can capture any seat."He was supported by senator aspirant Gichuke Ribathi. &ldquo;We only need to do the math. We have Gathimba as the governor. We need the senator too," he said.Gathimba said that the governor's position is the powers that will enable the residents of Kinangop achieve their dreams and aspirations.Woman representative hopeful, Wanjiku Muhoho equated Kinangop to a mighty river. She said other regions in Nyandarua should accept this fact and support leaders from the region. "In GHC, we were taught that small rivers flow into the big rivers, not the opposite. I will not elaborate. You are intelligent people &ldquo;, she saidOther leaders who supported the Kinangop declaration are front runners in the kinangop parliamentary race, Kwenya Thuku, Dr Kamau Mwangi, Chege Mugo and Moses Bakari, and many MCA aspirants.The principal casualty of Kinango declaration, if it holds, is Nyandarua deputy governor Waithaka Mwangi. Mwangi has concentrated his campaigns in Kipipiri and Kinangop, and has vowed that this time the governor seat will not cross River Malewa to the North.Nyandarua South has warmed to this argument. &ldquo;It is an idea whose time has come. But we will not vote for him&rdquo;, resident Peter Ndegwa told the StarShopkeeper Phyllis Muthoni told the Star that Mwangi has caused Kinangop to lag behind in development since his unchecked onslaught against governor Waithaka has made waithaka to concentrate development in the North, a view supported by many residents and leaders.Kinango residents also don&rsquo;t trust &ldquo;Lawyers to adequately care for our interests. They only think of themselves first&rdquo;, a resident who requested anonymity saidKanja Muchina who is contesting for governor on Maendeleo Chap Chap party also comes from Kinangop. But residents regard him as inconsequential in the Nyandarua South politics. Contacted for comment, Mwangi and Muchina did not pick the calls. They also did not respond to text messages by the Star.In total, Nyandarua South which constitutes Kipipiri and Kinangop has 16 MP aspirants on Jubilee ticket and 94 MCA aspirants, whose good will and support Gathimba and Mwangi who are contesting on JP need to court.