There was once a man staring at a treasure some ways away. Between the man and the chest full of gold coins, sparkling diamonds and precious stones of all colours was a ravine, its sheer drop a hundred metres deep. Traversing the ravine was a rope the width of an arm, and as far as the man could see, both to his left and his right, there was no other way to get across to the treasure but to walk the tightrope. To make matters worse, there was a wind blowing through, no doubt its force would make the crossing, with only a rope at his feet, that much more difficult. With concern scribbled on his brow, the man stretched his neck out to look down the chasm, and for the hundredth time cursed the fact that there was no safety net. Should he risk it? the man thought to himself. It was a question he had asked himself a hundred times already. It is this same question I put to you. Would you, if you were that man, precariously balance your way across, buffeted by winds, to get to the treasure? My guess is many of us would not, not without a safety net. As human beings we&rsquo;re cautious, we favour certainty over uncertainty. Like the man in the story, we&rsquo;d prefer the certainty of a safety net, without which we hesitate moving forward to get to what we really want. The thing is, though, whether we prefer it or not, safety nets won&rsquo;t always be there. It is a fact that in life, certainty is not a given. We know this and yet despite knowing, we still seek certainty and security in all that we do. This illusion of a sure thing comes from the misguided belief that we&rsquo;re in control of what does and does not happen to us. Hubris leads us to think that if we plan carefully, do things in a certain way, we can then manipulate and control outcomes to guard against unpredictability and uncertainty. This kind of thinking inevitably leads us to misery and frustration, unhappiness that is brought about by the notion that we should be able to change our circumstances. Most times we can&rsquo;t and we won&rsquo;t always be able to change our circumstances. We can wish all we want, hold on to the hope for there to be a net to break our fall, but wishing and hoping won&rsquo;t make it happen and we should really learn to live with this fact about life. Now as depressing as that may sound, it&rsquo;s really not. As author Joseph Campbell put it: &ldquo;We must let go of the life we have planned, so as to accept the one that is waiting for us.&rdquo;Campbell is talking about fate &mdash; you never know where it will lead. All fate asks of us is to, yes, put in the work, do all you can, and once you&rsquo;ve done that, step back and let whatever will happen, happen. This means step onto the tightrope, don&rsquo;t worry about falling or not falling because you will either fall or you won&rsquo;t, and no amount of thinking or hesitating will add a third option. The only thing that is certain is if you don&rsquo;t walk the tightrope, you&rsquo;ll never get to the treasure. So just try, see what happens. &lsquo;The desire of safety stands against every great and noble enterprise.&rsquo; &mdash; Tacitus