I have had a life long interest in dogs and I am lucky to be a dog trainer at SGA security. The dog section is situated off Mombasa Road and the company provides contract or emergency security patrol, guard dogs and handlers.5AM: I wake up and pray, and then take a shower.5.40AM: I have my breakfast. I take a glass of water first, then a cup of coffee and an egg.6AM: I leave for work and walk from home at Mukuru Kwa Njenga to the SGA dog section. It takes me 30 minutes to arrive at the office.6.30AM: The first thing I do is to check the dogs that stayed in our kennels the previous night.8.00AM: The handlers and I walk the dogs and clean the kennels. 9.00AM: I receive the dogs that were working at night at SGA clients premises. All the dogs are fed, walked, washed and groomed between 9.30am and 11.30am. Their training and the new handlers is carried out from 11.30 a.m. to 1.00 p.m.1PM: I break for lunch and eat my snack and fruit.1.45PM: I report back to work and record and supervise the loading of the dogs going out for the evening shifts. 2.30PM - 3.45PM: We clean the kennels again and the feeding utensils. 4PM: I personally walk the remaining dogs and do the obedience training. Before l leave work at 5PM, I check on the dogs that are unwell and we put the training materials, such as the balls, dumbbells and leashes, away and arrange the store.5PM: I leave work and arrive home at 5.30pm. I clean my house and prepare my favourite dinner, which includes ugali, fish and traditional vegetables.8PM: I enjoy keeping up with the latest trends in dog breeding and training by reading books and magazines and later read Bible verses. I normally go to bed at about 9.30pm, but when my four children are at home during the school holidays, I stay up to 11pm to catch up with their day s stories.WEEKENDS: I work on Saturdays from 8am to 5pm. I have a free day on Sunday and I attend church in the morning, do exercises, visit family members and friends and I improve my knowledge of dog training by watching clips on You Tube.