Education has been plagued by a number of challenges recently. The latest being the university lecturers’ strike, and prior to that the dismal performance of KCSE students. This being a key focus area, the government has indicated that it aims to increase access to education and training. The government also aims to improve quality and relevance of education; reduce inequality while leveraging on knowledge and skills in science, technology, and innovation for global competitiveness. A growing education sector can be a significant contributor to economic growth. In the budget statement this year, it is anticipated that the Finance CS will enumerate the gains achieved so far. In the 2016-17 budget, the CS allocated resources towards the digital literacy programme, the development of digital content, building capacity of teachers and rolling out computer laboratories for primary schools throughout the country. Technology has become part and parcel of our everyday life and the government’s agenda to ensure that the youth are empowered technologically is commendable. One argument against the 8-4-4 system is that it does not develop an entrepreneurial mindset in young people. It has been argued that the system does not do much to develop a problem solver, which is what we need to move our economy to the next level. For the longest time emphasis has been on doing well in school to become employable rather than an employer, with the society playing a role in limiting what the young people aim for as they complete their courses. However, there has been a visible shift towards creating more entrepreneurs. The government has moved to overhaul the education system to one that will focus more on developing young people’s talents, skills, abilities and competencies. The new system aims to have continuous assessment as the mode of evaluating student/pupil performance rather than one determined by exams. Continuous assessment would mean that over time it will be evident where a student’s strengths lie and therefore it would be easier to make a decision on what they need to pursue as a career. The government needs to consistently allocate adequate resources in building the capacity of teachers to implement the new system efficiently and effectively. In addition, the government needs to increase the teacher–pupil ratio in public schools. Free primary education saw an increase in pupils’ numbers, however the number of teachers did not increase in tandem. This had a negative impact on the quality of education as teachers no longer have time to offer personalised attention to pupils. In this year’s budget, it is anticipated that more resources will be allocated towards increasing the number of teachers in public schools and building the capacity of technical institutes. A significant number of secondary schools graduates did not qualify to go to university. The government is also expected to allocate funds towards building teachers’ capacity to roll out the new curriculum. Overall as a nation we need to work together to ensure the sector gets to a level that offers opportunity to all, provides quality education and makes our young people competitive at the global level. The writer is a senior tax manager EY. The views expressed are personal and do not represent the firm’s view.