Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has been accused of funding the Kakamega politicians through proxies.Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali on Sunday said the governor has &ldquo;planted&rdquo; parliamentary aspirants in Mumias East and West &ldquo;so they can clean up his name&rdquo;. The MP, a major critic of the governor&rsquo;s tenure when he served as the Mumias Sugar Company managing director, alleged that Kidero is funding David Wamatsi to run for Mumias East MP. He said this is aimed at ending the mismanagement accusations against Kidero when he was at Mumias.Washiali spoke when he met his supporters at Khabondi Primary School on Sunday.Without mentioning names, he said other aspirants have been &ldquo;planted&rdquo; in Mumias West and Matungu constituencies for a similar reason. &ldquo;I want to appeal to residents, especially sugarcane farmers, to vote wisely. People who contributed to the collapse of our only source of livelihood, the Mumias Sugar Company, have come back to fund the politics of this region for their own interests,&rdquo; Washiali said. &ldquo;The former manager has sponsored candidates to safeguard his name and tarnish names of innocent people in regard to the mess at the Mumias Sugar Company.&rdquo;But Wamatsi yesterday denied claims he is being funded by Kidero. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m using my own hard-earned money to contest for the parliamentary seat. I know Washiali is shaken because of the pressure I have put on him. He never thought someone would come out strongly to challenge him in Mumias East,&rdquo; he said.Wamatsi said the MP wants to confuse voters as the country nears the election. &ldquo;I have supported Washiali all along. It&rsquo;s the right time for me to unseat him and implement what we have planned for our people,&rdquo; Wamatsi said. Washiali also dismissed social media reports that he had contributed to the collapse of Mumias Outgrowers Company and the Mumias Sugar.&ldquo;Let us not lose focus on who brought down the two companies, which left our region in abject poverty. Some people have started propaganda on social media, accusing me of having a hand in the collapse of MOCO and MSC. But I want to challenge them to say how I participated in the collapse of the two private entities,&rdquo; Washiali said.Reports going round on WhatsApp and Facebook accounts, accuse the MP of colluding with Kidero to frustrate the management of MOCO, leading to its collapse. Similar reports also link him to the collapse of the MSC.Washiali said the reports were created by his opponents &ldquo;who are given money to malign my name by linking me to the collapse of the MSC&rdquo;.&ldquo;This to me is propaganda, because sugarcane farmers know what happened to the Mumias Sugar,&rdquo; he said.Washiali also accused Wamatsi of participating in the sale of Mumias Sugar shares owned by local farmers between 2003&ndash;08. &ldquo;This is how farmers were rendered non-shareholders in Mumias. Today, they cannot participate in running of the factory, because they were fooled to sell their shares cheaply to brokers,&rdquo; he said.In response, Wamatsi told Washiali to bite the bullet in regard to the collapse of MOCO and Mumias Sugar, saying the MP is to blame. He also told Washiali to use his position in the government to prosecute Kidero in the allegations he led to the collapse of Mumias Sugar. Kidero could not be reached to comment.