Opposition MPs have hatched another plot to discredit the Jubilee administration&rsquo;s performance by boycotting President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s State of the Nation address in Parliament tomorrow.NASA lawmakers yesterday vowed to skip the address citing Uhuru&rsquo;s failure to deliver on his promises, and his recent outbursts meant to belittle other leaders.They have changed tack. Last year during a similar address, they disrupted it by blowing whistles.The MPs said Uhuru has nothing new to tell them or Kenyans because things have become worse since he last addressed the nation.Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said an urgent NASA parliamentary group meeting could be convened before Wednesday to tell members to skip.&ldquo;There is nothing we can be told because we know nothing has been achieved by the Jubilee regime. You cannot talk about achievements when you have doctors and lecturers on strike. Other civil servants are threatening to go on strike. We have corruption in every corner of the country,&rdquo; he said.ODM chairman John Mbadi said the cost of living has gone up and the Uhuru administration has failed to tackle corruption, insecurity and famine.&ldquo;The steps we took last year helped to some extent because they galvanised the country to push for reforms in the IEBC. Immediately after that firimbi [whistle] in the House, it got to the street and we got the IEBC commissioners out. We can&rsquo;t use the same strategy every year,&rdquo; he said.Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said Uhuru has turned the address into a platform for churning out propaganda to salvage JP&rsquo;s dwindling fortunes. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a mockery of our democracy and constitutionalism. I&rsquo;ll not bother listening to his address,&rdquo; he said.Woman MP Gladys Wanga said she cannot listen to a President who has resorted to insulting Kenyans.The MPs, however, said they will comply with their coalition&rsquo;s decision to either boycott or attend the sitting. National Assembly Minority leader Francis Nyenze, however, said skipping or disrupting the sitting will taint NASA&rsquo;s image.