KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga has asked Kenyatta National Hospital to resolve the stalemate at the hospital or face another strike. While the doctors accuse CEO Lily Koros of refusing to sign their Return-to-Work Formula, the latter says KNH has not signed a recognition agreement with KMPDU. Read: Stranded KNH doctors accuse hospital of refusing to sign Return-to-Work Formula "KNH is a state corporation and has to sign a recognition agreement with the union. Only Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital did so in 2014," she said. "It, therefore, does not look procedural for KNH to sign the RTWF," Koros told the press at the hospital on Friday. But doctors say the hospital's administration is to blame for the standoff at the facility, a situation that the medics say may force them to still stay home. "She is not agreeing to the RTWF allowances. That is the issue. But we cannot go back to the old salaries," a doctor said. Oluga said Koros should explain to Kenyans why she is prolonging the strike. "If they want a strike, we will give them a strike. The hospital might be forced to sign a CBA," he told the press at KNH. He accused the CEO of being careless with Kenyan's lives by refusing to sign the return-to-work document. "She said our issue is not an emergency. We read that she has no interest," Oluga said, adding that doctors are ready to resume duty. "It is the management that is making it hard for us to get back to work. We wonder is Koros is not part of the Health Ministry." "There are no sticky issues in the document. The hospital can simply domesticate it and that is all," Oluga said. The KNH doctors have been stranded since the 100-day strike was called off on March 14 following the RTWF row. Health CS Cleopa Mailu, PS Nicholas Muraguri, Council of Governors
chair Peter Munya and KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga signed the
deal. Read: Doctors sign deal ending 100-day strike On Thursday, the hospital's board reinstated 12 doctors who were sacked for participating in the strike. This was after the doctors declined to resume duty until the management reinstated their sacked colleagues. Read: KNH sacks 12 doctors, 48 facing disciplinary action over strike More on this: We will have a problem if pay talks flop, Uhuru warns striking doctors