Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men&rsquo;s premier league champions Strathmore University &lsquo;Gladatiors&rdquo; face Western Jaguars away in Kakamega as Kenya Hockey Union league enters second round this weekend .Gladiators surprised favourites former champions Butali Sugar Warriors and 2013 champions Kenya Police to bag the 2015 title. The side, coached by Meshack Senge, launched their title defence with a 2-0 win over Sikh Union two weeks ago at City Park Stadium and will be keen to extend their good run.Nakuru Athletics Club welcome Wazalendo at their backyard in another top tier clash. Nakuru posted mixed results last weekend in their city tour&mdash; winning 4-1 against Technical University of Kenya and losing 2-1 to United Sates International University-Africa. On Sunday, Kenya Police, who got their league campaign underway with 3-1 win against KCA University face Chase Sailors.Police finished third last season but placed second in the annual Africa Club Championship in Nairobi behind champions Eastern Company of Egypt early this year. Moses Cheplait who scored twice for the law enforcers n the last match is confident of a repeat performance. He said: &ldquo;We hope to build on our win in the season opener going forward. Chase Sailors are a good side and we will give match the seriousness it deserves and see what happens from their.&rdquo;Parkroad Badgers play Greenshark in another top tierIn the KHU women&rsquo;s league tomorrow, 19-time record holders, Orange Telkom lock horns with USIU-A, having laid bare their intention of retaining the title with a 3-0 win against Chase Amira. Last season&rsquo;s runners up Strathmore University &lsquo;Scorpions&rsquo; welcome University of Nairobi, having won against Vikings 3-0 in the mid-week clash.However, today, Chase Amira play Multimedia University in the women&rsquo;s duel. In the national men&rsquo;s league, Parkroad Tigers play Daystar University, Kabarak University play host to Wazalendo before taking on Multimedia on Sunday as Impala take on Mvita at City Park Stadium. On Sunday, Thika Rovers welcome Mvita X1.