The Tana River governor race has intensified, as six aspirants battle it out in an area traditionally known to vote on ethnic basis. The six are incumbent governor Hussein Dado, former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana, former Galole MP Major (Rtd) Dhadho Godana, speaker Abdi Nuh, the immediate former Trade executive Adam Barrisa and former Finance executive Ismail Algi. Dado will seek his reelection on the Jubilee Party ticket, following his defection from Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper. His defection, which was made public during the Jubilee rally at the Tononoka Grounds, Mombasa, on March 11, complicated matters for Mungatana, who has been in the party since its formation in September last year, and was even appointed the party campaigns coordinator in the county. Earlier reports indicated the former assistant minister had joined NASA but made a U-turn ‘after consultations’. On the other hand, Godana and Barrisa are set to go for nominations as both seek the ODM ticket. The former Galole MP is seen as a stronger candidate compared to Mungatana, but faces uncertainty due to questions about the credibility of his academic papers, in particular his university degree. It’s not clear yet whether Barrisa will go to the primaries, or will jump to another party due to the stiff competition. Some think he is buying time to see whether Godana will be locked out of the race due to his academic papers. He fell out with Governor Dado and resigned in 2015. He immediately launched his bid for the top job. Multiple sources from the county, however, claim Algi has very low chances because his community, the Orma from which the governor also comes from, has rejected his bid. Others say he has a lot of support in the Tana Delta subcounty, his home turf. Nuh from the Wardei community, who are pastoralists like the Orma, was endorsed by the Wardei Council of Elders, the Ukas, towards the end of January. The elders spent three days in Gafuru village to vote and agree on who would be their candidate. Nuh, the chairman of the County Assemblies Speakers Forum, won with 19 votes followed by Sane, who garnered 12 votes and Deputy Governor Jire Siyat got only two votes. Siyat disputed the results and opted to return to Governor Dado. Based on the recent developments, the governor race remains the most competitive, giving both the leadership and the communities a hard time to make a choice. Communities are said to be divided, while previous alliances have been abandoned. Communities living in the county include the Orma, the Wardei and the Pokomo. The minorities are the Mnyoyaya, the Watta, the Malakotte, the Somali and other migrant communities or ‘upcountry communities’. The so-called upcountry communities were previously regarded as ‘the others’, but latest indications show their numbers cannot be taken for granted. The Orma and the Pokomo are historically known for their rivalry, and are consequently key determinants of the county leadership. The Wardei are regarded as the King Makers, and whichever side they align themselves to usually wins. The Watta, the Malakotte and the Somali were traditionally regarded as the minority because they lacked numbers. That has however changed, and they now have some bargaining power. In 2013, the Orma and the Wardei forged an alliance that made it possible for them to clinch power. The scenario is now different after reports that the Wardei fell out with the Orma for what they termed as failure by Governor Dado to respect the MoU they signed prior to the election. Analysts well-versed with the political alignments in the county say Dado’s move to ditch Wiper for Jubilee “brought him back to life” since he had lost popularity . They say the reunion of Dado with his deputy, Siyat, who had left and joined forces with Nuh, is an added advantage because he is now likely to get votes from the Wardei. Dado is also said to enjoy a lot of support from the ‘upcountry communities’. His community is expected to vote as a bloc to remain in power. The incumbent is also believed to have support from the Pokomos, following his generosity during his tenure by offering them senior appointments and jobs. Others say Dado is likely to use his wealth, acquired during his tenure, to run a well-oiled campaign machine. His critics, however, are of the opinion that his reelection is not guaranteed as he faces many challenges. Local MPs —Ibrahim Sane of Garsen, his Galole counterpart Hassan Dukicha alias Gorfo Kayo and Bura’s Ali Wario — have accused the governor of corruption. Surprisingly, despite the fact that the three MPs are pro-government, they were not present when Dado defected to Jubilee, and have been silent since. Dado defected with his deputy, Senator Ali Bule, Woman rep Halima Ware and a number of MCAs. Some locals say Dado may be confident of victory but wonder how he will win with all the challenges he is facing, particularly the broken alliance with the Wardei. Prof Hamadi Mboga, a Coast-based political analyst, says the region has its own issues, including historical injustices and marginalisation, which are yet to be resolved. He argues that Dado’s move to Jubilee may leave many questions unanswered because the government has not done much to address historical problems of marginalisation and injustices facing the county. Prof Mboga told the Star on the phone that only the Narc government under President Mwai Kibaki tried to resolve the historical injustices, one by forming the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission. Its recommendations are yet to be implemented by the Jubilee administration. He says Mungatana may be in a better position to win the seat because the incumbent has failed the expectations of residents on roads, health and land, among other development areas. In his opinion, Mungatana is better placed to defeat Dado, despite all the defections. “It’s not how small you join the war, but how tactful you are,’’ he says. Asked about the financial war chest of the candidates challenging Dado, who has the incumbency advantage, he says Mungatana decision to run for governor is not out of nowhere. He has a plan and a strategy. He was an MP, an assistant minister and Kenya Ports Authority chairman. On the ethnic factor, particularly on Mungatana, who is facing challenges from his own community, Prof Mboga says there is still room for dialogue. He says the governor may have joined Jubilee to seek protection for the corruption cases he has been linked with. Mungatana has accused Dado of corruption since he started his campaigns.