The Education ministry has developed a policy that seeks to instil relevant skills into teaching and learning. The Education for Sustainable Development Policy will incorporate learning on climate change, disaster risk reduction, gender equality, biodiversity, poverty reduction and sustainable consumption of natural resources. The long-term goal of the policy is to tackle sustainable development problems that Kenya faces as it gears towards realisation of Vision 2030. PS Belio Kipsang yesterday said the policy will be used across all levels of training from early childhood to higher education. “We must ensure we have quality and sustainable education because it is only through this that we shall be able to achieve all we require for ourselves as a country,” he said. Kipsang spoke during the launch of the policy at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in Nairobi. Sessional Paper No 4 of 2012 on reforming education and learning recommended curriculum reform that would foster quality education and integration of ESD at all levels of education. The policy will be guided by a number of principles, including human rights-based approaches to learning. This will ensure learners are taught the benefits of values such as equity and social justice to society. Life skills such as critical thinking and reflection on personal experiences will also be taught. These will enable learners to develop holistically so they know how to engage with the rest of the world. Learners will also be required to understand the link between environmental, social and economic dimensions to sustainable development and good governance. “The development of this policy is a fulfillment of the various UN conventions and commitments by the Kenyan government,” Kipsang said. “It talks about enhancing public awareness and building capacity for sustainable development. We’ll continue to develop the capacity of our teachers so we implement the ESD.” The policy says the Sustainable Development Goals can only be achieved through improved quality of education and skills to drive innovations. 