IF you are a Deputy Governor intending to succeed your Governor at the 2022 election, you hold less than 10 per cent chances of doing so, assuming your boss wins this coming election. The same is true if you are Deputy President. A study of several vice presidents in regional countries including ours has it that no more than 10 per cent directly succeeded the sitting president. In the USA, which has had more vice presidents than any other nation, only 4 out of 47 VPs went on to become president directly succeeding the outgoing president. That is an 8.5 per cent probability. Around the world, the chances of deputies taking over directly from the outgoing elected presidents are generally low. This phenomenon is known as the Curse of Deputisation.THE TWO CURSES OF POLITICSThe game of politics has many curses but there are two major maledictions. One of them is the Curse of Incumbency. A while back, we discussed incumbency, observing that, statistically, there is a 30% or so chance of electoral office holders (without term limits) retaining their seats in an election. The electoral office holders such as MPs and now MCAs and Senators suffer heavily from the Curse of Incumbency. In short, in a highly competitive political environment like Kenya&rsquo;s, it is much easier to win an electoral seat than to retain it. In the coming elections, many will fall by the wayside and for those who will be reelected, the curse still kicks in. Their chances decline further in subsequent elections, which is why few politicians have three or more terms in their hand. The Curse of Incumbency is true for most politicians, unless, of course, those who are propped up by influential politicians or party functionaries. Incumbents are fully aware of this, which is why they are scheming to fleece the taxpayer out of billions in this year&rsquo;s Budget to create a soft landing for themselves. This curse is driving them.THE CURSE OF DEPUTIZATIONThe second major curse of politics is the Curse of Deputization. This is the difficulty of the deputies of elected office holders rising directly to replace their former bosses. The Constitution of Kenya 2010 created six elective positions two of which have deputies. These are deputy governor and deputy president. The primacy of the positions is succession or taking over in the event either the president or governor is incapacitated by illness, injury or other reasons. Should the office holder die, then their deputy automatically takes over, but only for a period before a by-election is held.When the governor is constitutionally barred from seeking reelection, the chances of the DG taking over should ordinarily be high but not quite. Despite having some experience in governing and knowing how to run things from the inside, there are so many things that work against them. To be properly objective, we must wait for future elections (far beyond 2022) to know how many deputy governors went on to be governor. Although we are yet to have a former Deputy Governor contesting for the position of Governor, this should not stop us from making the considered conclusion that the chances are poor at best. Here&rsquo;s why.LOWER CHANCESIn any given election in Kenya, the electorate will be seeking to try a new set of leaders different from the current team. If the outgoing team performed poorly, then the Deputy will be going into the election carrying the sins of the outgoing administration. Besides, if the current governors fall under the Curse of Incumbency mentioned above, they sink with the DG strapped to their back. Even If a former DG will distance themselves from a governor and try it out on their own, they will still suffer from the (usually negative) evaluation of the administration they once worked in. As they try out their chance with the unforgiving electorate, their sins of omission and (mostly) commission will be brought out by their &lsquo;clean&rsquo; opponents. Other than that, some of the 47 DGs currently in office will be dropped outright dropped in favour of others, particularly those that would improve the chances of a governor&rsquo;s reelection. Nearly half of the current DGs are not getting along with their bosses for one reason or another and this is likely to affect them even more. In fact, your chances actually improve if you don&rsquo;t win this year&rsquo;s election and you choose to go it alone at the next. The odds that they will someday be Governor are deeply steeped against them. Those who have been approached to become deputy governors must have this in mind.DEPUTY PRESIDENTThe Deputy President is politically defined as being only a &lsquo;heartbeat away from the presidency&hellip;&rsquo; While many view this as a vantage point and an important perch for those intending to succeed the President, this position indeed suffers the Curse of Deputization. This phenomenon is of course not new in Kenya&rsquo;s politics. In the old constitutional dispensation, we had 10 VPs &ndash; Odinga, Murumbi, Moi, Kibaki, Karanja, Saitoti, Mudavadi, Wamalwa, Awori and Kalonzo. None of them succeeded the president directly except one (Moi) through the death of the incumbent. Another became president after an election but long after he had ceased being veep.For those who understand Kenya&rsquo;s politics, it is clear to all that if Jomo Kenyatta had not died suddenly while in office, Moi would not have become president. In fact, it has been discovered that President Kenyatta had personally been behind the so-called &lsquo;Change the Constitution&rsquo; movement aimed at preventing Moi from automatically succeeding him. Why he never replaced him still remains a historical mystery. Suffice it to say that only one vice president did indeed directly become president. And that is only a 10 per cent success rate. Two former VPs are currently trying out their luck for the presidency in August this year and even if they won, that would only mean 30 per cent of former second-in-commands ever became president. There are many who have placed their bets, even their last breath, on Ruto becoming president in 2022. I have not mentioned the fact that Ruto&rsquo;s chances are hedged on the support of a certain community. Be that as it may, numbers tend to be more honest than people.DEPUTY GOVERNORSIf you are considering becoming governor, perhaps it would not be a good idea to start with the position of deputy governor. With the approaching elections, gubernatorial aspirants, including incumbents defending their seats, are considering who their running mates will be. Already, a number of sitting governors have fallen out with their deputies and will be seeking new ones in replacement, the more famous ones being Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and his deputy Bernard Kiala, Bomet Governor Rutto and his deputy Stephen Mutai, Kisumu Governor Ranguma and his deputy Ruth Odinga, Isiolo Governor Godana Doyo and his deputy Mohamed Abdille Guleid, and Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his deputy Joash Maangi. A number of the deputy governors have indicated that they will be challenging their bosses and are indeed shopping for a deputy. It remains to be seen how many of them will be successful, but you can now make a more informed guess.STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE DEPUTY SEATThe strategic value of the office of DG or DP is its biggest asset, but it is also its biggest vulnerability. The position of DG/DP has turned out to be an important bargaining chip for support. Although the DGs have limited real power, they provide critical balances of power to ensure that others, particularly ethnic and other minorities, have their say in the county. DGs are chosen based on various considerations, among them regional, ethnic or gender balance, and, in some places, clan or sub-clan considerations. There could also be resource considerations, if someone is bringing in some (much-needed) campaign financing. In brief, the position of deputy governor is one of strategic value and it will therefore affect the chances of the governor being elected or reelected. These human dynamics tend to change with time, and, while you were a favourite for DG, another (new) consideration may just knock you out.VICE PRESIDENTS IN US POLITICSWhile indeed there are no guarantees in the political game, the chances of deputies taking over tend to be low, not just here but across the world. We have looked at the US, which is the one country that has had the most vice-presidents in all the world. Here, we find that in 45 US presidencies (with 44 presidents), only 4 out of 47 Vice Presidents moved directly to being President through an election. This is when the incumbent was constitutionally barred from seeking reelection and his deputy went for the seat. According to CNN Politics, only 14 vice presidents went on to become president for one reason or another (this is 29.78 per cent). Such reasons would include the death of the sitting president (in which case only eight became president). One became president when the incumbent resigned (Richard Nixon quit his job after Watergate whereupon his deputy Gerald Ford became president). Richard Nixon also holds the distinction of being a former VP who went on to become president but only after an eight-year gap (1961 to 1969).Of the four who moved directly to become president, the last one was George Bush Sr in 1988, Ronald Reagan&rsquo;s deputy. Before him was Martin van Buren in 1836, some 152 years earlier! Jackson continues, &ldquo;While Bush (Sr) and Van Buren did manage to get elected, they didn&rsquo;t entirely break the vice presidential curse &ndash; neither won a second term.&rdquo;THIRD TERMS OF THE INCUMBENTOf course there are miles of difference between US and Kenyan politics. Natalie Jackson, writing in the Huffington Post, states that some of the reasons few VPs became president include party fatigue (which is possible in a duopolistic political environment like the US&rsquo;s). In our case, we have fickle party loyalty instead, placing our loyalty on individuals, which is all the more reason a politician wants to be popular or populist. In the case of the US, some of the VPs never bothered to run for office (such as Joe Biden, Obama&rsquo;s VP) and so the transition statistic mentioned above must indicate whether or not a candidate is interested in burning their money to become governor or president. More importantly some candidates were considered to be a &lsquo;third term&rsquo; of the incumbent and for this reason they failed at the ballot. Al Gore was badly hit by this aspect. Indeed, Deputy President William Ruto must stand out as his own man and not expect Uhuru to fight his battles for him.CLOSER HOMEIn Tanzania, for instance, out of 13 First Vice Presidents and Second Vice Presidents, only one went on to become President (Ali Hassan Mwinyi, who was VP from 1984-85 and president thereafter). In Uganda they&rsquo;ve had eight VPs since independence and none became president, with the exception of Paulo Muwanga, who became president for just 10 days. In Sudan, they have had 15 VPs or First VPs since 1969 and only one (Salva Kiir Mayardit) became President, but for the breakaway South Sudan. John Garang was one of them, but died too soon.DEPUTIES IN FUTURE ELECTIONSThe 2022 election could be dubbed the Battle of the Deputies. If Jubilee wins on August 8, then Deputy President Ruto will be battling to become President in 2022. He has already strongly indicated his intention to succeed President Uhuru. If Raila wins under NASA, his deputy will be on the ballot to succeed him if the rumour that Raila intends to be a single-term president is to be believed. Again, assuming that all of the governors will be reelected come August, then their deputies (most) could be on the ballot in 2022. However, to break the Curse of Deputization, they must employ extraordinary effort. In politics as in life, nothing is absolute and perhaps the curse could just be a blessing. Let&rsquo;s find out!