The University Academic Staff Union has announced resumption of mega protests in urban towns to continue mounting pressure on the government to respond to their demands. Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said the decision follows &ldquo;prolonged internal monologue&rdquo; from the government and the Inter Public Universities Consultative Council Forum (IPUCCF). Wasonga had on Friday last week suspended the demos as a show of goodwill to allow negotiations to progress.&ldquo;While we can push the higher education and innovation into coma, we have chosen only the path of total paralysis to give the government a chance to address the working conditions of Dons,&rdquo; Wasonga said in a statement on Saturday. He mega demos will start next Wednesday, March 8, he said. Wasonga accused the IPUCCF and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission of attempting to provoke and incite lecturers by scaling down the initial 1.6% increment on House Allowance contained in the Sh10 billion package offered by the government. He said this went against international labour negotiation protocols.&ldquo;SRC also continues to insult Dons (in the ongoing job evaluation of lecturers) by applying a tool best suited to evaluate factory workers,&rdquo; Wasonga said. The SRC and PwC job evaluation tool puts more emphasis on the number of employees that university staffs supervise as opposed to the level of education they hold. Wasonga said the formula contradicts international practices in the evaluation of academic output and core functions of universities. &ldquo;The tool rewards managers of cattle dips and courses but severely punishes teaching and academic leadership. According to the tool, the students a lecturer trains carries no weight. Research and innovation are nowhere compensated. Clinical teaching is unknown,&rdquo; he said. Wasonga called on lecturers not to be arm-twisted into going back to work through the withdrawal of their February salaries by some vice chancellors. He said the move was unconstitutional under Article 25b.&ldquo;Let us all reach out in solidarity to colleagues who may be tempted to go back to class due withdrawal of salaries. Let no Don be arm-twisted by management to scab or backleg.During the last demo, some colleagues with disabilities, braved all that and marched. What can keep a Don home in the next one? Become part of this history, don't stay at home. Come and peacefully march with colleagues, in the struggle for our rights,&rdquo; Wasonga said.He however stated that UASU remained a reasonable negotiating partner to end the strike which entered its 45th day on Saturday.Wasonga on Friday said the union was awaiting clarification from Education CS Fred Matinag&rsquo;i and PS for University Education Collete Suda on the status of Sh4.8 billion that was offered by the Budget and Appropriation Committee on February 23.Read: Tutors to decide on accepting Sh4.8bn offered by lawmakersHe said the union wants to know if the figure is an additional amount to the initial Sh10 billion, which they have since rejected, to enable them analyze its impact. The dons are pushing for a 300 per cent raise and implementation of 2013 CBA.