Nairobi governor hopeful Peter Kenneth has said only the nominations will end the &ldquo;war&rdquo; between him and Senator Mike Sonko.Both are seeking the Jubilee Party ticket to run for Nairobi governor.He has ruled out any negotiations with the senator, saying he is ready for the primaries. The party primaries are scheduled for next month. &ldquo;We are ready for the nominations, because that is the only way all these things can be solved once and for all,&rdquo; Kenneth said.He spoke yesterday to journalists after attending service at Githurai PCEA.Kenneth said he will launch his grassroots campaigns today. &ldquo;Tomorrow we will launch grassroots campaigns for the President, the Deputy President and for ourselves. We want to bring all the aspirants together so that we go into nominations peacefully&rdquo; Kenneth said.He said the Jubilee&rsquo;s Nairobi county elections board was set up, despite skirmishes that marred the meeting called to deliberate on its membership last Thursday at the Bomas of Kenya. &ldquo;What we are waiting for are the election rules. Once we get that, we shall hit the ground running,&rdquo; Kenneth said.Kenneth and Sonko&rsquo;s supporters clashed after the two politicians differed over the board&rsquo;s membership.Kenneth was accompanied by Roysambu MP Ndirangu Waihenya, his Kasarani counterpart John Njoroge, a host of MPs and MCA aspirants.A week ago, Sonko called Kenneth &ldquo;an albino or whatever&rdquo; and a criminal. The senator later apologised to Kenneth.In an interview with the Citizen TV, the Nairobi senator lashed out at the former Gatanga MP, saying their feud is personal. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not ready for consensus with this person (Kenneth). We know what he did in 2013...he refused to step down for my boss,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Let him feel what we felt at that time...I will not accept it even if he steps down to become my running mate.&rdquo;Sonko has also accused Kenneth of being an outsider. But Kenneth has maintained he was born and brought up in Nairobi and vowed to soldier on till the end.The former presidential candidate has managed to pull most of the city Jubilee MPs, MCAs and aspirants to his camp.