THE proposal to raise penalties for hate speech under the NCIC Act from Sh1 million to Sh10 million and to raise the alternative jail terms from three to five years is an inconsequential move. To start with, even with the law as it is currently, no one has ever been convicted of hate speech, despite several cases having been filed in court. A penalty of Sh1 million for any media house convicted of hate speech or a jail term of 3 years for a journalist convicted of the same would already be punitive enough. Main story: MPs seek five years in jail for hate mongers The fact that some media houses publish what appears in the public eye to be hate speech is not because they believe the fines are too light to matter. The whole problem of dealing with hate speech is in the ability by the State to obtain a conviction for a suspected perpetrator. This is evident from all the cases that have been dismissed by the courts. What appears to be hate speech in the public opinion is actually never a crime in the eyes of the law. Like all other criminal cases, hate speech must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Under Section 13 of the Act, all the acts, threats, abuses and insults alleged to constitute hate speech must be shown to have been intended to stir up, or to have already stirred up, ethnic hatred. And under Section 25 ethnic hatred must be directed to a group of persons defined in reference to colour, race, nationality or ethnic or national origins. Combining these requirements to meet the evidential threshold by the prosecution is the main challenge. In many cases, the law enforcers react to public outcry and emotions, even when it’s clear to them that there is no evidence to prove a case, only for the courts to dismiss the charges. In fact, in many instances, the statements said to have been uttered or published will have been so well clothed in protective wording that the hate speech in them may not be easily discerned. Speakers use parables, proverbs and sayings with deeply hidden cultural meanings only interpreted/decoded by those who deeply understand the language. Many such times, the elements of hate speech in such statements become a matter of public opinion, which may be far away from the definition of hate speech in the law. Advocate of High Court and a former journalist