Kenya Sevens have been drawn in a tricky Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; alongside series leaders South Africa, Canada and France for next month&rsquo;s Hong Kong leg .Shujaa, who bagged a paltry five points in Vancouver, will be hoping for a turnaround in fortunes after a largely disappointing campaign that has seen them amass 40 points from six tournaments and only make the Main Cup quarters once in Cape Town in December.Kenya and South Africa have met twice this season with the Blitzbokke emerging winners on both occasions&mdash;14-7 in Sydney and 15-5 over the weekend in Vancouver. Kenya and France have met thrice with the Europeans winning the opening encounter in Dubai 24-14 with Shujaa exacting revenge in Cape Town with a 33-14 win. Shujaa also won 14-7 in Las Vegas. Kenya and Canada have met once this season with the North Americans edging Kenya 10-5 in Sydney.England are seeded first as a result of winning Vancouver Sevens over the weekend and will take on Australia, Samoa and South Korea, who come in as an invitational side in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;.Fiji are in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; with New Zealand, Wales and Japan while Mike Friday&rsquo;s USA, who finished fourth in Vancouver, headline Pool &lsquo;D&rsquo; alongside Argentina, Scotland and Russia. Kenya Lionesses, who have landed an invite to the prestigious tournament, will play Argentina, hosts Hong Kong and Belgium. This year&rsquo;s Hong Kong women&rsquo;s rugby Sevens tournament will be a qualifying tournament for the World Rugby Sevens series, Hong Kong Rugby Union have confirmed.South Africa are in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; alongside Colombia, Papua New Guinea and Italy while Japan headline Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; with China, Netherlands and Jamaica. Twelve teams will take part in the tournament from April 6-7.Meanwhile, Kenya Sevens have dropped one place in the World Sevens Series after bagging just five points at the Vancouver leg on Sunday. In another lacklustre display, Innocent Simiyu&rsquo;s charges crashed out of the Challenge trophy semifinals, losing 26-7 to Samoa. Kenya are now 12th on the log with just 40 points after six tournaments.It was ample revenge for the Samoans who had lost to Kenya 21-14 in the Challenge trophy final last weekend in Las Vegas.Both teams were evenly matched in the opening minute of Sunday&rsquo;s contest with defenses holding firm. The Samoans, however, went ahead when Alex Samoa sliced open to touch down.Tila Mealoi kicked over the conversion for a 7-0 lead. Samoa weathered the Kenyan attack and Joe Perez scored the second try with Mealoi adding the conversion for a 14-0 lead at the interval.On resumption, Kenya bossed possession and Samuel Oliech crossed the line as Eden Agero kicked over the conversion for a 14-7 deficit, giving Kenya a glimmer of hope.Samoa regrouped and fought back and Perez scored a gem of a try when he dummied the Kenyan defence with Mealoi adding the conversion for a 21-7 lead.Savelio Ropati scored Samoa&rsquo;s fourth try in the closing stages of the match to secure the win for the Pacific Islanders.Kenya had earlier come from behind to beat Scotland 19-17 in the quarter-finals. The Scots looked the sharper side in the opening stages of the match and led through Ally Miller try and Scott Wright&rsquo;s conversion. Collins Injera&rsquo;s try, converted by Agero, saw Shujaa level terms at 7-7.Dougie Fife&rsquo;s unconverted try saw the Scots lead 12-7 lead at the break.On resumption, the Scots romped the intensity and were rewarded with a third through James Fleming for a 17-7 lead. However, Kenya fought back with ties from Dan Sikuta (unconverted) and Frank Wanyama. England beat South Africa 19-7 to win the tournament and move up to second on the standings with 103 points.South Africa lead the standings with 126 points while Fiji finished third with a 28-24 win over the United States. Shujaa are expected back in the country this morning.