The 51-year-old doctor whose body was found in a car in Gitaru was tortured before he was killed, a postmortem examination has revealed.Pathologists last Thursday confirmed David Chege suffered a fractured ribcage. They said the injuries in his neck were an indicator he was strangled.Separately, a postmortem on his 24-year-old son Alex Ngugi confirmed he died of a gunshot wound that pierced through his chest and lodged in the rib cage.Chege was found dead last Wednesday in a car abandoned in Gitaru, Kabete. There were three other men in the car, and it appeared they were all strangled and hit with blunt objects.Chege&rsquo;s body was found a day after his son was killed by police in Kinyago, Dandora, on suspicion that he was a criminal. Police said they recovered a homemade pistol and two bullets from Ngugi.The mysterious murder has since been linked to a fight with the police. The families of the killed men have linked Chege&rsquo;s death to a dispute with officers from Kinyago AP camp who are accused of fatally shooting the son.Three other men found in the same car have been identified as Martin Musyoka, a mitumba seller, Shadrack Njuguna, a butcher, and Joseph Mwangi, a conductor. Detectives from the DCI headquarters homicide unit have taken over investigations. Friends and relatives making last-minute burial preparations to bury Chege and Ngugi at the family home in Ndeiya. The murder has close resemblance to the June 23, 2015 murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani , client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri.Mwenda, a boda boda operator in Mlolongo, was killed together with his lawyer after he allegedly declined to withdraw a case in which he had sued an AP officer for threatening to kill him.Police investigations revealed the three were picked up by AP officers, whom they are said to have clashed with while driving from the Mavoko law courts.Their mutilated bodies were found in the Oldonyo Sabuk River, a week later. Four AP officers based at the Syokimau AP camp have been arrested and charged with the murders. Last week Kabete police chief Joseph Ongaya said investigators suspect the men were killed elsewhere and dumped in his area.