Tax consultants want the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich to provide clear guidelines for filing tax returns for offshore assets through the amnesty window in the Finance Act 2016. The amnesty, the second this decade after a similar one in 2011 which was not successful, applies to Kenyans who will file their returns between January and December 2017. Tax experts at PricewaterhouseCoopers, however, said the Finance Act, which took effect in September 2016, is not clear on how Kenyans with wealth abroad should file their returns. This, they argued, may result in the Kenya Revenue Authority missing targets from the amnesty. &ldquo;We hope the KRA and the Treasury will issue guidelines during the budget (expected to be read on March 23). People are willing to declare what they have but there are no proper directives on what is to be reported and how,&rdquo; PwC associate director Gareth Harrison told journalists in Nairobi yesterday. Rotich, in his 2016-17 budget statement, directed the KRA to give an amnesty window for Kenyans generating income from investments abroad to boost tax collection and increase transparency. PwC consultants said among provisions expected is a declaration form to be issued as part of the guidelines. &ldquo;Clients are asking for clarity and everything. We are urging the government to issue regulations soon or later. We had expected this to happen in December but it never happened. We expect it can be done before the first quarter is over,&rdquo; PwC tax partner Rajesh Shah said. Apart from encouraging Kenyans to reinvest their wealth abroad into the country, the amnesty which ends on December 31 will provide the KRA with data on offshore investments by Kenyans, a timely development for its participation in the Common Reporting Standards. The CRS developed in response to the G20 request and approved by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Council on July 15, 2014, calls on jurisdictions to obtain information from their financial institutions and exchange that information with other jurisdictions on an annual basis. The government last year allayed fears that the amnesty was a trap to track how those with foreign investments acquired the assets. &ldquo;Taxpayers who take up this amnesty shall have all principal taxes, interests and penalties for the year of income 2016 and the prior years automatically remitted in total,&rdquo; Rotich said in his budget speech on June 8. &ldquo;The government shall not follow up on the sources of such income and assets declared.&rdquo; PwC director Titus Mukora said: &ldquo;Reporting standards and treaties help to seal tax leakages.&rdquo;