It is imperative that politicians bear in mind that voters do not want leaders who compete over who can insult, scandalise, and abuse others the most. They are looking for leaders who will help them live in peace and guarantee their children&rsquo;s future. To realise this, we must vote wisely and only for honest people.Kenyans are seeking genuine democracy, in which leaders are servants of the people and not hyenas. They are not interested in malice, slander and calumny about one&rsquo;s political opponent.Politics should be honest and responsible. It should be an effective way of serving and working for the integral development of one&rsquo;s country. It is sad when elections are marred by slander and malice.As we count down towards August 8, I have noticed that politicians have upped the ante against each other. Each wants Kenyans to think that s/he is visionary. It is a positive sign that they &ldquo;think&rdquo; Kenyans want a &ldquo;visionary&rdquo; leader. However, voters have serious questions about the vision of these candidates.And when one peels the layers of deceit and expose the &ldquo;trickster&rdquo; in them, you quickly realise that the only vision they have is that of winning the tenancy of State House, Senate or the National Assembly. Almost needless to say, a vision that ends in a building, or is accomplished when one arrives at a certain address, is not a vision at all, let alone one for the country.This country is so fractured. We need to think of politics not just as an organisation of hatred, but also as a vehicle for national reconstruction and service delivery. Respect for the dignity of one&rsquo;s political opponents requires that campaigns are conducted with honesty and dignity, and not with lies and malice.Polls should never be a matter of character assassination, fraud or coercion, since that would break the sacred character of democracy.Campaigns should be anchored on issues to enable people to make correct political choices from a point of information where the voter reviews the past in order to prepare for better political choices for the future.Good elections require the intelligent and responsible participation of all. Voters need to read the parties&rsquo; manifestos. A sound manifesto should articulate achievable goals that will enhance the country&rsquo;s development.Leaders must invoke the alchemy of great vision. This vision should be reflected in their manifesto. The best vision is insight. A leader is said to be one who &ldquo;knows the way, goes the way and shows the way&rdquo;. Insults and slander are signs that one does not know which way the society wants to go.If the farthest you have gone in articulating a vision is calumny, then you cannot lead others. Leaders establish a vision for the future and set the strategy for getting there; they cause change. They motivate and inspire others to go in the right direction and they, along with everyone else, sacrifice to get there.In an issue-based election, those who offer themselves for reelection are evaluated against the record of their achievements. Whether they fulfilled their promises and the quality of their judgment on their country&rsquo;s challenges.Or maybe the candidates were just driven by the &lsquo;full belly theory&rsquo;, the philosophy that has dominated our 21st century politics. The general and presidential elections should be about more than electing our &lsquo;tribal chieftains&rsquo;.In an issue-based campaign, candidates will try to focus much on issues of social justice and the desire to work for the common good instead of self-enrichment. Those who have not held office will be carefully evaluated in terms of their competence and their reputation for honesty and selfless dedication to the common good.Clearly, campaigns must be carried out in a peaceful and honest way. Aspirants and their supporters must be guided by Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity, which is anchored on God&rsquo;s Commandments.Elections must mean more to us than they do in the US, or any other established democracies. Good leadership will be achieved not by the formality of structures, but by the integrity of our politicians and their willingness to work together and be inspired by a larger vision.Okwaro Oscar Plato is an analyst with Gravio Africa. The views expressed are his own.