The electoral agency has teamed up with the EACC and the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties to set up a team to vet aspirants for political positions. Staff members in the team will also be recruited from the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Justice department. The team will verify documents, research and investigate aspirants in light of claims of forgery and interference by the Executive. They will have a central command at the commission's office in Nairobi at the end of next week. “The command centre will enhance collaboration in the enforcement of chapter six of the constitution on integrity and other relevant laws," IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati said during a press conference on Wednesday. "[It will also] provide an integrated effective mechanism to resolve issues of leadership." The collaborating institutions will publish guidelines on compliance with leadership and integrity requirements for the election. They will give priority to verification of information on aspirants which the electoral agency may require to complement and support the clearance process. Chebukati said the institutions want parties to nominate candidates who meet the leadership and integrity threshold as specified in law. The chairman said this will make the work of the command centre easier. "The requirements under chapter six and election laws involve various state and non-state agencies. That is why we [resolved] to work together," he said. Attorney General Githu Muigai warned the Executive and other politicians against interfering with the election process. “I am not aware if the Executive has interfered with the process. It would be an offence for any person to interfere with the law,” he said. Fresh details have emerged on how a meeting at State House, Nairobi, helped Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko secure a police certificate of good conduct. This enables him to run for office. Sonko wants to be governor, but JP is understood to want him to support Peter Kenneth for governor. The good-conduct issue — which had never arisen before — involved authenticity of his KCSE exam score. It took the intervention of President Uhuru Kenyatta, through personal assistant Jomo Gecaga, to direct police to issue Sonko documents required by candidates. More on this: Did State House help Sonko get good-conduct certificate? Asked about coming up with laws limiting the independence of government institutions, the AG said Parliament had the final say. Muigai said the passing of the constitution meant his office no longer had final influence on the new laws. "We need to have a database with all information on all aspirants. The 2013 ruling affects the small part of the large work we intend to do," he said. The AG said all government institutions should handle the election process independently. EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala added: "Chapter six will help us get leaders who will drive this country forward and help us achieve the goals under Vision 2030."