Tender wars, court injunctions and interference by political parties are threatening the electoral agency&rsquo;s poll preparations, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has warned.The IEBC boss commented yesterday, as it emerged 67 political parties will field candidates in the August 8 polls. Speaking at a meeting with editors, Chebukati said the commission is operating under tight timelines owing to changes in the law and many court interventions. &ldquo;The commission must proceed with execution of its programmes without interference from political parties or courts,&rdquo; he said. Chebukati promised his team &ldquo;will do everything possible&rdquo; to deliver credible polls. Two weeks ago, the High Court dealt the IEBC a devastating blow by cancelling its tender to supply ballot papers.But Judge George Odunga, who issued the ruling, insisted an electoral process must not only meet constitutional and legal thresholds, but also inspirethe confidence of the electorate.Yesterday, Chebukati said a vendor whom he did not name has dashed to the appellate court to challenge the High Court ruling. The Sh2.5 billion tender had been awarded to the Dubai-based printing and publishing firm, Al Ghurair. However, Cord moved to court saying the decision was illegal. The audit of the voter register has also been temporarily stopped by the court, while the procurement of election technology is in jeopardy. The Public Procurement Board last week annulled IEBC&rsquo;s decision cancel the technology tender. The IEBC confirmed 67 political parties, one provisionally registered party and coalition submitted nomination rules last week, allowing their participation in the general election.The provisionally registered party is Hut Political Party and the coalition is the National Super Alliance.The 14-day window for the submittingnomination rules lapsed on Thursday last week. The Chebukati team now is to receive parties&rsquo; membership lists. The 10-day process begins tomorrow and will end on March 19.The IEBC will then embark on receiving from political parties names of candidates for primaries starting March 26.