Jubilee and ODM will hold parallel, duelling rallies on Sunday in Mombasa, less than four kilometres apart. ODM had already scheduled a rally, then JP decided to hold its own in the city where political tension has been high. The ODM rally will be at Tononoka Grounds, Jubilee’s at Mvita Grounds. Both are in Mvita constituency. The ODM rally is the culmination of Coast tours. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said the party will issue the Coast declaration and chart the way forward in politics. Party leader Raila Odinga has been invited, but other NASA leaders have not been invited, Joho said. Earlier rally cancelled ODM’s plan to hold a rally parallel to Jubilee’s on March 12 was frustrated by the police after they failed to provide security, citing ‘strength exhaustion’. Makupa OCS John Owuoth said officers were overstretched by providing security to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s rally and the mass service by Prophet Owour. The OCS said ODM did not notify them on time. “The notice was supposed to reach us 72 hours before the scheduled date,” he said. The opposition notified them barely 24 hours to the rally, he said. The JP team said no national leaders will attend their rally, as it is purely a Mombasa affair. Governor aspirant Suleiman Shahbal and Ananiah Mwaboza will attend. Yesterday, ODM deputy party leader Joho said Jubilee was welcome to hold a rally and it would not be disrupted. “We encourage JP to continue with their plans because that is democracy. We are very comfortable with that,” he said before inspecting Tononoka Grounds. ODM Mombasa chairman Mohamed Hatimi said they have notified police and the notice was acknowledged. Meeting acknowledged Joho said the Makupa OCS wrote back saying, “Noted. Acknowledged [and] received. Permission granted. Law and order be maintained.” But the governor said it is not for the police to grant permission, they should just acknowledge receipt of notice. He said they expect police to provide adequate security and if they fail, ODM supporters will guard themselves. “There is a new Jubilee trend to disrupt our meetings with police. Police is now Jubilee’s new wing,” Joho said. On Thursday, ODM’s Kwale rally was disrupted after police fired teargas, forcing cancellation. Police said the venue Joho and his team booked had been reserved for another event attended by Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya. Joho criticised Lamu county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri for condemning the ODM rally. The governor also slammed regional coordinator Nelson Marwa over what he said are attempts to curtail his movements. “How can he tell me not to talk politics anywhere else apart from Mombasa? That is old-fashioned,” he said. On Thursday, Marwa urged leaders to stay in their counties. “If you are in Mombasa, keep your politics in Mombasa, don’t interfere with Lamu and Kwale,” he said. “Don’t remind Kenyans of the slavery they went through.” He referred to Joho as the Sultan of Mombasa and said people cannot suffer again as they did under earlier sultans.