Seven Kenyan golfers will line up against the continent’s finest players when Zimbabwe hosts the Africa Golf Confederation Junior Championship, starting today to March 31 at the picturesque Royal Harare Club. Leading Team Kenya is Agil Is Haq of Nyali, who was among the six local amateur golfers, who represented the country in the just concluded Barclays Bank Kenya Open Championships. He will be joined by Mutahi Kibugu, Zubair Khan and Akshay Chandaria in the boys category as Kenya seek to dominate the Africa show. The tournament will be used as a yardstick towards qualification of the 2017 Toyota Junior Golf World Cup to be held in Japan later this year. The continental championship is set to be the biggest since the inaugural edition in 1995, with 17 countries having confirmed participation. This year’s event will run concurrently with the Africa Confederation Junior girls’ Championship, where nine countries will battle it out for the coveted title. The event was hosted by Zambia and won by Zimbabwe last year. The format of the 72-hole championship is stroke play, with the best three scores per country set to count towards their total in each round. Kellie Gachaga, Loise Akinyi and Ashley Awuor will play in Kenya’s girls’ team. The country with the lowest gross score over the four rounds will be the continental champions, while there is also a prize for the best individual gross score. Many African golf professionals on the various tours around the world have participated in the tournament over the years and some are well-known personalities including major tournament winners. The inaugural Africa Golf Confederation Junior Golf Team Championship (previously known as the All-Africa Junior Golf Championship) was won by Zimbabwe in 1995. South Africa then won the tournament in 1996 and 1997, before Zimbabwe again won in 1998. However, since then, South Africa have won every edition of tournament as Zimbabwe’s juniors have played second fiddle to their counterparts from across the Limpopo. Last year, the tournament was held in Tunisia, where Zimbabwe team comprising Kieran Vincent, Bekithemba Ndlovu, Amm and Kirsten finished second behind South Africa. Only Amm and Kirsten are still eligible for selection in this year’s competition, while the other players in the squad are set for their debut in the team competition.