Lecturers will decide whether to accept Sh4.8 billion offered by a parliamentary committee once the Education ministry says if the amount is on top of the initial Sh10 billion offer.They rejected the Sh10 billion. They want a 300 per cent raise and implementation of their CBA. The strike is in its fifth week.University Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga yesterday said they will meet their technical team to discuss the amount, once Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i assures them it is additional. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to be rejecting things before analysing them. Once I am assured the Sh4.8 billion is an addition, then I can now sit down [with the UASU National Executive Counci] to analyse and see the implications of the amount,&rdquo; Wasonga told the Star.Wasonga has asked for clarification from Matiang&rsquo;i and PS for University Education Prof Collete Suda, but they are yet to respond. Matiang&rsquo;i has said it&rsquo;s not his responsibility of trying to broker a deal ending the lecturers&rsquo; strike.Last month, the government made a Sh10 billion offer to lecturers to end the strike. The state said the money would go towards adjustments of the basic salaries and house allowances of staff at public universities.The Budget and Appropriation Committee on February 23, awarded the striking lecturers&rsquo; the Sh4.8 billion. Wasonga said the issue of calling off their strike does not even begin to occur until an assurance on the status of the Sh4.8 billion is made. &ldquo;Let us not talk about calling off our strike. Strike is our weapon. We don&rsquo;t want to commit. We must get the impacif it is additional,&rdquo; Wasonga said.He said the ultimate goal of the strike is to ensure the 2013-17 CBA is negotiated, signed, registered and implemented in full.UASU officials were on Tuesday invited by Senate&rsquo;s Committee on Education to outline reasons for the rejection of the Sh10 billion they were offered in January.&ldquo;Unless the situation is remedied, there is an impending collapse of higher education sector in Kenya,&rdquo; Wasonga told the committee.He said upon clarification the Sh10 billion was not enough to cover for the needs of the 30,312 members of all three unions &ndash; UASU, KUSU, and Kudheiha&ndash; for 48 months.Wasonga announced that major scheduled protests in all major towns had been called off, pending further directions Tuesday next week.