Flamboyant national team and Kenya Prisons setter Jane Wacu hopes of joining Kenya Pipeline received a major blow after her release letter was turned down by her employers.The latest development means Wacu will have no choice but to play for Kenya Prisons women&rsquo;s team in the next month&rsquo;s Africa Club Champions in Kelibia, Tunisia and the ongoing Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) league.Wacu, a first choice setter for the former champions Kenya Prisons and the national team, had signed a three-year deal worth Sh2.3 million with local champions Kenya Pipeline early this month but she is yet to get clearance from her employer. Pipeline are currently in the residential training at the Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani ahead of the continental club show while Wacu is training with her mother club Kenya Prisons.Wacu, who recently participated in the KTN ultimate Challenge show, was quoted after signing the three-year deal as saying the move was basically a change of environment after serving Prisons for 10 years and she had no hidden agenda. According to sources: &ldquo;Wacu was all set to move to Pipeline but after availing her release letter to Prisons management for signing, her request was turned down.&rdquo;The source noted that the management had wondered why a player would leave permanent employment for temporal terms at Pipeline. &ldquo;If Pipeline were offering her a permanent job, then maybe they would have considered,&rdquo; said the source.Wacu has played professional volleyball in France for two seasons with Club Charmeliers. Reached for comment, Prisons coach and the Kenya Volleyball Federation technical director, David Lung&rsquo;aho, said the right channel was not followed in the entire transfer process and had learned about the move through the media.&ldquo;As a team, we can&rsquo;t stand in the way for a player, who wants to leave the club as long as the right channel is followed. But in this case, due process was not followed and as things stand now, I still regard Wacu as our player,&rdquo; said Lung&rsquo;aho.KVF organising secretary Ismael Chege said as far as the local transfer of players is concerned, much is not needed as long as the two clubs consult each other extensively and give the final word to the federation. Chege said: &ldquo;The team which is acquiring the service of the player is supposed to pay the transfer fee to national board and the federation is to give some percentage to the losing club.&rdquo;However, a source from Pipeline, who sought anonymity, said Prisons are sabotaging them. &ldquo;We didn&rsquo;t go looking for the player but instead she brought herself. Wacu is a good player and any team will want to have her and we are no different. However, Wacu is yet to report to camp but as it stands, she is considered one of us having signed the deal. For us to terminate the contract, she has to come back and cancel it,&rdquo; said a source from Pipeline.