The two-days talks to strike a deal on a possible Mombasa governor candidate for Wiper party team have collapsed.Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and Senator Hassan Omar want the Wiper ticket to dethrone incumbent Hassan Joho (ODM). But unconfirmed reports indicate Awiti may be on his way out after sensing "foul play".It is understood that the party leadership would like the two work together as candidate and running mate if they are to stand a chance of defeating Joho.Tuesday's talks started at 3pm and stretched to 11pm, while on Wednesday the meeting began at 8.30 am and extended past 2pm, but no agreement was reached.Omar and Awiti each selected three emissaries to negotiate on their behalf.Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka barred the two from attending the discussions.After each team stood its ground, Kalonzo reportedly ordered that Awiti and Omar must meet and decide amongst them who will be flagbearer. The two did not meet and both have remained adamant on being the governor candidate.An announcement that was to come at the end of this week of a possible unity or primary remains a mirage.During the negotiation meeting, Awiti and Omar s emissaries presented their cases and tried to convince Kalonzo why each aspirant deserves to lead.Awiti said he has a stronger grassroot support than Omar, which can win against Joho. He said he has machinery to run a multimillion-shilling campaign.Awiti said he has the network to source investors and he is qualified academically.He said his often challenged articulation represents the majority voters who are mostly sufferers.The Wiper national treasurer also claimed his campaign secretariat has been active for the last three years and will transit smoothly in the five months of campaigns to dethrone Joho.Omar's emissaries said he has the support of vocal MCAs.They said the elite support Omar, he has networks and his academic credentials put him at an advantage. His team said the governor contest requires such intelligence.The group said Omar has been championing economic empowerment of the youth as a basic human rights and he has been an activist for most his life.The two-day meeting was followed a sideline talk on Tuesday between the four NASA co-principals during the ongoing Devolution Conference in Naivasha.Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya trashed zoning of Mombasa and other counties.As Wiper fights to tame looming fallout, Joho has called for a truce over the NASA nomination headache in Mombasa, saying affiliate parties are not in competition.The governor said the fight is against Jubilee and all energy should be focused on defeating the ruling party.Awiti s camp is reported keenly studying the nomination rules with eyes trained on other NASA affiliate parties, apart from ODM and Wiper.Reports have emerged that emissaries working for Omar have been sent to Awiti to try and persuade him to step down. Omar declined to comment on this subject when contacted.On Wednesday, Awiti told the Star on the phone he is giving the ongoing negotiations a chance and waiting for the outcome.The Nyali MP was in a dilemma because he has a deal with the Mijikenda community, which he promised the deputy governor slot and he does not want to betray them. I m going to stand as governor no matter the cost. And Hassan Sarai will never be my deputy. The Mijikenda are going to choose one of their own for me. It is not my duty, Awiti said. The ongoing negotiations will not stop me from launching my team and vision. On Saturday (today) you will see things differently. Joint nominations for the Mombasa seat is rocking NASA, making Wiper pull all strings to disrupt such plans.Strategies include Wiper refusing to append to NASA nomination rules if joint nomination is incorporated and forging for unity against ODM are being considered.In a live interview on Citizen TV on Thursday morning, Joho said NASA will not allow the debate on joint nominations to divide them.But Omar lashed out at Joho for undermining affiliate parties within NASA.Speaking in Kilifi on Thursday, the wiper secretary general brushed off Joho s sentiments on joint nomination as a mere opinion and not the official position of his party, ODM.He said deputy party leaders are not the official spokespersons of parties. Joho is the ODM secretary general. Secretary generals are the official spokespersons of parties. Don t judge one opinion just because the guy has more beard than us. The idea of forming NASA was to clinch the presidency and not undermine or dissolve affiliate parties, Omar said.He accused Joho of trying to sneak in the dissolution of parties. The idea of dissolving affiliate parties in NASA was brought forward by someone and it was defeated. Our party leader has reiterated our stand on nominations and the same was reiterated by the ANC and Ford Kenya principals, Omar said.