When I was elected governor of Kiambu, I was confronted by rampant unemployment - a major cause of alcoholism, petty crime and religious radicalisation.My team and I determined to make education available and affordable to the youth, who are not only vulnerable to these challenges, but are key to our economic prosperity as a county, and a country.I was dismayed by the lack of education funding to low-income households, who, apart from informal harambees, had few other sources from which to draw funds to educate their children beyond primary school. The options included grants from CDF.A fund geared towards exclusive support of the educational needs of our young people was needed.In response to this need, my government established the Kiambu Education Bursary Fund in 2013 to provide school fees and cater for the expenses of deserving and needy students. Since its inception, Sh247 million has been disbursed to give needy deserving students a chance to pursue their academic dreams, and, ultimately, break the cycle of poverty that continues to ensnare many residents.Investment in education needs to begin at the early stages of a child s development. In view of this, we have invested in and refurbished 25 early childhood development education centres.We introduced a school-feeding programme currently going on in 491 ECDE centres. This ensures children from economically disadvantaged backgrounds not only attend school, but are also equipped with the nutritional strength that is necessary for progressive learning.Technical tertiary education falls within the mandate of the county government. We have refurbished 25 youth polytechnics. In addition, we have purchased tools and learning equipment worth Sh54 million for all 31 polytechnics. Each institution has received equipment worth Sh1.8 million.This has led to a rise in the number of students enrolled in the institutions, expanding Kiambu s human resource and its ability to attract more industries and investments.The Education department has encouraged young people to take a keener interest in exploring the wealth of information available in written material. To this end, it has built and fully equipped new libraries in Nachu ward and the Githunguri Youth Empowerment Centre.Five more youth empowerment centres are being equipped and construction of new facilities in various subcounties is currently underway. These facilities have increased literacy levels and will continue to.It is my vision that all these initiatives will lead to a healthy and skilled human resource for the future growth and development of our county and the country.I believe that public investment in education and literacy levels among the youth will yield a high social return and help them avoid the pitfalls of crime and radicalisation, which threaten Kenya s stability.By advancing education, we have aligned ourselves with the Jubilee government s objective of investing in education with a view to creating jobs for the youth. Only education can help our youth to develop the intellectual capacity to innovate and venture into the world of entrepreneurship where jobs are created.