Infrastructure and energy projects were among the hardest hit in the supplementary budget passed by the National Assembly yesterday. In the mini-budget, National Treasury CS Henry Rotich sought to cut development expenditure for the financial year 2016/17 by 0.9 per cent. Parliament has recommended the reduction of development estimates for the State Department for Infrastructure by Sh5 billion, slashing funds from the Roads Transport Programme, meant for low volume seal roads The Budget and Appropriation Committee has also called for the reduction of development funds for the Energy department by Sh500 million under the &lsquo;Power Transmission and Distribution Programme&rsquo;, meant for connectivity subsidy. Funds for installation of transformers for constituencies have also been slashed by Sh100 million.About Sh100 million meant for digital literacy-Laptop Project has been moved to the Konza flagship activities. In the mining ministry, Sh70 million for the mineral resource management programme has been moved to the granite assessment centre in Vihiga county. The state department for energy has a reduction of Sh35.5 billion for power generation projects. However, allocations for power generation projects are set to increase by Sh8 billion. The State Department for Transport has a total reduction of Sh4.9 billion for development of the Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway, and Sh7.7 billion projects under marine transport. &ldquo;Total development expenditure is set to reduce by Sh65.6 billion largely due to a reduction in donor funding for projects,&rdquo; the Budget and Appropriation Committee estimates report reads in part. The Mutava Musyimi chaired committee said it has &ldquo;noted with concern&rdquo; , the weak absorption capacity of donor funded projects. &ldquo;This maybe due to the over-estimnation of external financing at the time of finalization of the budget. This leads to huge revision of allocations in the supplementary budget,&rdquo; Musyimi says in the report. The committee has also faulted the country&rsquo;s monitoring and evaluation system terming it weak and &ldquo;doesn&rsquo;t provide timely and quality feedback on implementation of projects and programmes&rdquo;, which hinders opportunities for early intervention. The supplementary budget by Treasury CS Henry Rotich intended to reduce the overall budget by Sh20.4 billion to Sh2.1 trillion from Sh2.3 trillion. The budget however has a mixture of reductions and increments where recurrent estimates are to increase by Sh61.6 billion, while development estimates are set to reduce by Sh65.4 billion. The consolidated fund service is set to reduce by Sh16.6 billion. The country depends on both domestic taxes and borrowing to fund the annual budget. As at the end of first half of 2016/17 the government had collected Sh881.3 billion, while Sh824.3 billion had been released, the report says. Sh345.2 was for recurrent expenditure while Sh137.9 billion was for development expenditure. Sh224.9 billion went to consolidated fund services and Sh116.3 billion to county governments.