DARLING OF THE DIASPORAIf you have lived abroad or interacted with Kenyans in Diaspora, regardless of their tribal, political or racial affiliation, you know they think Raila should be President. The opposition leaders is overwhelmingly popular among Kenyans living abroad and when he visits those countries, which he often does he has Kenyans thronging his events, many waiting to engage him on the side-lines. If you know diaspora life, then you know it is a great sacrifice just to turn up in such events because most of them are hustling three or four jobs just to get by. But then they will sacrifice and be there. Raila is in town.FREQUENT FLYERRaila is the most visible Kenyan leader overseas appearing on everything from addressing the Oxford Union to taking part in televised interviews and signing documents committing to this or that course. He is the most sought after Kenyan leader abroad, being invited for seminars or Diaspora forums and radio shows. For him, the visits are a welcome break from the punishing political atmosphere in Kenya, and will also be a bit of a working holiday. Small wonder they would like to see him President. Even second or third generation diaspora Kenyans, who have never been to Kenya, know Raila. Kenya s diaspora within Africa and even in Europe or America have quick connections with the opposition chief as do dozens of heads of state. His visits are often publicised across forums that bring together Kenyans living abroad. SELFIE WITH RAILARaila probably has more selfies with Diaspora Kenyans than any other Kenyan leader. Once at a London hotel that he loves to stay, a group of Kenyans were jostling to take selfies with him and in the process created a mess with camera flashlights. The high-end hotel has a strict no-flash photography policy in common areas (for health and privacy reasons) and so the steward came jostling among the Kenyans to admonish Raila for breaking their policy. He said, Mr Odinga I don t care how many visitors you have but we can t have flash photography in this place We spoke about this last time ." He motioned Raila and the entire coterie of Kenyans (and other Africans) to a more private place. Those selfies will undoubtedly end up in on social media happily flaunted and shared with thousands others. Social media, which is how Kenyans abroad tend to connect with each other, is inundated with such photos. There are also various diaspora Kenyan chat groups and Facebook groups dedicated to Raila s support online.STRONG CONNECTIONSMost of Kenya s Presidents have been diasporans in their own right. Jomo Kenyatta spent upwards of 15 years in England and in various other European countries while Mwai Kibaki, a student at the London School of Economics, lived in metropolitan London. Uhuru Kenyatta also lived abroad when he went to Amherst College in the US. Moi is the odd one out having obtained his qualifications locally. Raila was a teenager when he went to Germany and is therefore a child of Diaspora. He did his secondary school and university in Germany and speaks the language fluently. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka also spent some time in Cyprus, where he obtained a qualification in business studies.While having lived in the diaspora is not a qualification for support by the Kenyans abroad, it certainly helps if you can immediately connect with the hustle that life there is all about. When Raila is abroad, he speaks of the issues that seem to bother Kenyans living there about home. He comes out as the one who understands what needs to be done here. Kenyans can engage him directly, ask him odd questions and even share a cup of tea. Of course, the relaxed security around Raila while abroad is the main thing that goes well for him. Don t bother trying to see him here, unless of course you don t have much value for your time and you need to embark on a frustrating bendeavour.JUBILEE AND THE DIASPORADeputy President William Ruto cannot travel abroad as often as he would like to. Thanks to debilitating travel restrictions against him and his family, he has not done much travelling in Western nations lately. In fact his most publicised visits to Europe were related to his cases at The Hague and while there he had more Kenyans with him than Kenyans living abroad. This situation leaves President Uhuru as the face of Jubilee in Western nations. Due to his work load, he has little time for buddy talk with Kenyans living abroad. Besides, even if he did, security arrangements won t allow him to mingle with Kenyan s as freely as he/they would like to. Uhuru s foreign visits involve meeting with high-power dignitaries and leaders who are not easily accessible to the common folks. This leaves little time for discussions on issues pertinent to Kenyan s living abroad. To his credit he did appoint an officer to be in charge of Diaspora issues (Amb. Zachary Muburi-Muita was appointed to head the Directorate of Diaspora Affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2014 (and prior to that his Press honcho Dennis Itumbi was in charge).DIASPORA REMITTANCESIn spite of having lived abroad, Uhuru has not been able to quickly connect with the issues facing Kenyans there. Some of these include costs of remittances, with upwards of 15 percent going to transactional costs. This is a huge amount remaining with Money Transfer outfits that are cashing in on Kenyan s hard work. The matter has even been addressed at the House of Commons but without beneficiary nations like Kenya pushing their way, Kenyans living abroad will continue to pay the high price of these transfers. Kenya is Africa s third highest recipient of diaspora remittances with recent figures heading towards KSh. 200 billion. Most of that money usually ends up in investments that create jobs and supports a huge chunk of the GDP. However, the amounts remaining with Money Transfer agents as fees could run several counties for a year. DETRIBALISATION OF KENYANSAnother thing that goes well for Raila is that Kenyans in Diaspora don t primarily identify themselves or others along tribal lines. Unlike what is often the perception, life in diaspora is quite a struggle. While many Kenyans are indeed illegal immigrants in several nations, the majority tend to have their papers right and while abroad, are hardworking, law-abiding people. Life in diaspora tends to detribalise you and those nasty stereotypes evaporate almost overnight. You will find your kith and kin, who are thousands of miles back in Kenya, will not be of help should you need them. You, therefore, tend to make closer bonds by anyone going by the title Kenyan regardless of which tribe or religion they belong to. A chat in Kiswahili is like a whiff of fresh air in diaspora. While of course there are those who are careful about their general association with other Kenyans, they will not be doing so with tribe as a consideration. FEAR OF HOMEIn the person of Raila, some Kenyans living abroad see a messiah. Living abroad tends to make one somewhat fear living in Kenya. Reports of insecurity, poverty, famines, unemployment, corruption, poor healthcare, poor infrastructure and others, give Kenyans living abroad the freaks about returning home. This is because where they are, these things are generally unheard off. Living in countries where things actually work to this where politicians put their tummies first (someone describes it as Tumbocracy ), most Diasporas tend to consider Kenya as a basket case. You will know this if you have hosted a relative or friend who lives abroad. They will be saying all the time unlike here, back in Twin Cities there is this or unlike here, back in London there is this They can bore you stiff with such useless comparisons but that informs you what their world view has become. It is, therefore, natural if they see Kenya needs fixing and so to that role they ascribe Raila because he speaks so eloquently about what should be done. Somehow, they forget that he has been a senior government operative yet nothing much really changed.INSTITUTIONS OF GOVERNMENTIf Kenyans living abroad have learnt one thing, it will be the importance of leadership in national progress, and the role of strong institutions in that process. The nations they live in rose by creating and supporting powerful institutions, which have helped shape their society regardless of who became the leader. They therefore feel rather strongly, that Raila is the saviour of this country because he (actually) tends to have faith in institutions being strong and independent. They believe he is likely to support the work of the EACC in fighting corruption and also, make the IEBC (truly) independent. Reality, however, is that Raila and indeed any other Kenyan leader, is capable of being as corrupt as it can be and his track record is not squeaky clean either.That said, it remains to be seen if indeed we shall be seeing future elections with a diaspora vote but if we could get our fellow Kenyans abroad taking part in the vote, then we shall have come full circle as a democracy.