NASA is in labour. It has been labouring to birth to a presidential candidate. Sadly, the baby is in a breech position. Towards the end of most normal pregnancies, babies naturally turn head-down into a delivery position, closer to the birth canal. When this doesn't happen, the buttocks and/or feet will be positioned to be delivered first. This is called a breech presentation, and delivery is almost always through a C-Section. Let us now examine why NASA’s baby is in a breech position. Its evolution started with a flirt. Party leaders from ODM, Wiper, Kanu, Ford Kenya and Chama Cha Mashinani were seduced by NASA’s flattery. By flirting, NASA was announcing that he was available, interested and fit for a relationship. His initial moves were subtle but intentionally coded with charming words. In flirting, subtlety is KING! And the ‘flirtees’ took the bait. They liked the attention. The mystery. The allure. The banter. The suggestion. Flirting got them hooked. Flirting was FUN! Then the secret rendezvous began.  Kanu secretary general admitted that by November last year, the affair had been ongoing  for six months in Nairobi, Naivasha, Laikipia and other undisclosed locations; and what’s more, the frequency increased from once every two weeks to twice a week. The mistress had been snared. Now, what does winning the lottery, eating chocolate and having an affair have in common? Neurotransmitters. These are chemicals produced by our brains that give us a great feeling of energy, excitement and happiness. Sadly they are short lived. The mistress increasingly wanted more than being temporary high. The adrenaline rush was not enough. Gradually, the thrills from the affair became an irresistible temptress. The mistress could no longer remain hidden. Demystifying her became inevitable. The waters were tested in Bomet during a thanksgiving forum for Governor Isaac Rutto, after his return from South Africa, where he was receiving treatment. Calls for opposition unity were in every speaker;s mouth. The adulterous bed had been openly laid. The cover of the full-blown affair was finally unveiled at the Bomas of Kenya. The opposition leaders held hands; smiled; displayed unity; buried the hatchet; and promised to work together. They were openly declaring they were all in bed together. Yet, Cord had not been dissolved and its constituent parties remained disparate. This became a love triangle. The other woman had been revealed. NASA had officially become a ‘sponsor’. Since then, in the public space, we’ve been shown the face of a clande that is Happy, confident, contented and committed. But behind closed doors, the usual questions have been organically emerging. Where do we stand? Where is this relationship going? Are you just using me? Why should I not be first place? With satisfactory answers not forthcoming, the mistress has become restless. Mistrust has creeped in. Elbowing each other out, clamoring for preferential treatment, soliciting support and threatening to decamp have become commonplace. And to compound matters, the mistress is now pregnant. The baby is due and there is a problem — the baby is in a breech position. What started as a harmless flirt, developed into a mistress and has now become a tyrant. Let me explain. Tyranny is a rule by persons who lack legitimacy, whether they be malign or benevolent. Mistresses in any shape or form lack legitimacy in their sponsor’s life. Like tyrants, they are insecure. They assert themselves by becoming deviously manipulative. A tyrant’s power is twice cursed. It damages him and those he subjugates. Each leader in NASA has a fixated view. But in an effort to appear more accommodating and for safe delivery, the tyrant has engaged the midwife to help birth this baby. This is an inner circle made up of respective lieutenants who have been forced into a servile role. They have been reduced to Yes Men only fronting and defending their owners demands and wishes. Is it a wonder then, why they have been unable to birth the baby? For arguments sake, let us use the recent Ipsos poll as a reference. It shows that Raila and Kalonzo might once again emerge as the duo to face the incumbents. But in what order? Is the poll a classic case of the Rooster’s Syndrome, where Raila is NASA’s ‘baba’ because of supporters confidence? Or is he ‘baba’ because he has always been? To determine the order, we will ask Raila and Kalonzo to play a game of ‘Golden Balls’. The prize is Kenya. Each will be given two golden balls (no pun intended). Inside one is written SPLIT. The other STEAL. They will individually choose from their pair, the ball that will win them the prize. If they both choose SPLIT, they will share power. If they both choose STEAL, they will run for President as individuals, and both will lose the prize. If one chooses SPLIT and the other STEAL, STEAL will win the prize. To ensure a win, it is important that you convince your opponent that you are both better off with half the prize than none at all. So, you persuade your opponent that you should both choose SPLIT. But cunningly, you instead choose STEAL and walk away with the full prize. Between Raila and Kalonzo, who embraces the fool’s argument? Who espouses the belief that sometimes it is reasonable to break the covenant in order to do what is necessary to benefit oneself? (T.Hobbes). To answer this question, let us rely on two paradigms of knowledge; Faith and History. Faith is concerned with what is possible; while History is concerned with what is likely. Is it possible that Raila will choose SPLIT? NO. His lieutenants have told us that this is his last bullet. However, is it likely? YES. History tells us he has previously declared others Tosha. So what will deliver NASA’s baby? Faith or History?  Freedom is the freedom to say that two plus two make four. If that is granted, all else follows – Winston Smith  The writer is a Political Economist.