The Mzima Springs are a green haven in the middle of the semi-dry bushland of the Tsavo West National Park. The springs arise out of the Chyulu Hills, a mountain range north of the park. Rainwater from the hills seeps slowly through the porous volcanic soil and flows under the ground to Mzima Springs, a distance of about 40km.The water gushing out of the rocks at the springs is crystal clear. More than 200 million litres per minute flow out and the Springs supply water to Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties.The small lake at Mzima is home to hippos and crocodiles. The springs are surrounded by yellow-bark acacia, raffia palms and lush vegetation.We watched the Vervet monkeys jumping around in the trees, and there was a flash of brilliant blue from a malachite kingfisher diving in for fish. Every now and then hippos would stick their heads above the water surface to breath. They sleep underwater during the day and emerge at night to graze.The following day, we drove west towards Amboseli, passing through the Shetani Lava Flow. This is an open, flat terrain of sharp rocks and dark boulders covering about 50 sq km. It was formed from the flow of molten lava during a volcanic eruption, which also created the nearby lava caves that you can visit.The last volcanic eruption was about 200 years ago, and the surface ground still moves because of ongoing subterranean action. They say if you place a stone on a particular spot and return a week later, you will find that the stone has shifted. This spectacle, together with recent memory eruptions, is perhaps why local superstition gave the area the name of shetani, which means &lsquo;the devil&rsquo; in Kiswahili.There is not much vegetation at Shetani, apart from some hardy bushes. We did not see any wildlife but klipspringer antelopes and hyenas are said to live here. Yet the dreary-looking landscape has a rugged beauty, especially under clear blue skies.LOCATION: Tsavo West National Park, Taita Taveta countyCONTACTS: +254 716 511162Star Rating: 4/5