Frenchman Adrien Saddier fired seven birdies and an eagle to take a one shot lead as the Barclays Kenya Open 2017 entered half-way stage yesterday.The 24-year old Aix Les Bains based professional was one of the biggest movers in round two play when he moved 22 places to the summit yesterday.Saddier played a round of 9 under par 62 for a total of 12 under par 130. He ended both Thursday&rsquo;s and yesterday&rsquo;s rounds with eagles on the 18th hole .&ldquo;It feels really good to be up there at halfway stage. It&rsquo;s still too early to predict but consistency will be the key to success in the remaining two days. I will give it my best shot though as I seek to cling onto the lead,&rdquo; said Saddier, who claimed the sixth card at the Qualifying School final stage to earn a maiden season on the European Tour in 2014, having come through all three stages.The Frenchman missed the cut at the same event the previous year and decided to stay amateur and play with the French team before turning professional in July 2013. Saddier was tenth in the World Amateur golf ranking before entering the paid ranks, having twice represented France in the Nations&rsquo; Cup, winning the individual title in 2013.Second overall with a total of 11 under par 131 was Findland&rsquo;s Kalle Samooja on 11 under par 131 followed by Welshman Rhys Davies on a total of 10 under par 132.Elsewhere, history was made at Muthaiga Golf Course yesterday when 18-year-old Finn professional Oliver Lindell shot a hole-in-one on the par three 13th hole to win a 3.2 litre Ford Ranger car.Several hole-in-ones have been forthcoming at the Kenya Open but this is the first time in history that it happened at a designated hole.Lindell was all smiles after the momentous feat but ruled out any possibilities of flying the car home after the tournament.&ldquo;Back home, we use left hand drives so I would like to sell the car here and go home with the cash. We already have a deal with CMC on how the car will be sold. It&rsquo;s a great feeling to be the winner of the inaugural award and hope that many more will follow suit,&rdquo; said Oliver.CMC Group&rsquo;s head of Government relations and public policy, Helen Ndeti, said: &ldquo;This is the first time that CMC is sponsoring Kenya Open and we are glad to be part of this historic occasion. We came in the last minute when previous sponsors Pewin Motors opted out. If Oliver accepts cash or the car, we will give him but already there are willing buyers who want the car. Next year, we will still sponsor the event with a vehicle of similar value.&rdquo;Lindell started off Day One with a disappointing score of 2 over par 73 but shot his third eagle yesterday to pull through to the money bracket with four under par 138.&ldquo;It was such a good feeling to fire two eagles on the second round on holes 10 and 13. I didn&rsquo;t play so well on the first day despite shooting an eagle on the par 5 hole 18,&rdquo; said Lindell.