Liverpool Vs Arsenal Today 8:30pmThis is the tie of the weekend, the one we&rsquo;re all waiting for! But something tells me that this will be all hype and Arsenal will run away with the game so early. Liverpool have had a very strange year winning just one game since 2017 began, against fellow top four contender Spurs! But the Reds continue to struggle against smaller teams, losing to Swansea, Hull and defending champions Leicester. When you look at Jurgen Klopp&rsquo;s statistics, they are even worse than Brendan Rodgers&rsquo;. They are even worse than David Moyes&rsquo; but I think the hype he came with and what he had achieved at Borussia Dortmund is what is keeping him on the job. Liverpool, however, greatly missed Jordan Hendersen last week but he is expected back for this game. I hope he doesn&rsquo;t make it though for my Gunners&rsquo; sake. We, on the other hand, have no excuses not to perform well. We never do. Santi Cazorla has been out for so long and sadly, will be out until the end of the season and we should have found a solution to this by now. Manager Arsene Wenger has lost the plot but he and the boys will be eager to get their season back on track. The title is gone and a top four position isn&rsquo;t a certainty. Part of me wants us to do well but another recognizes that the only way Wenger will ever go is if we fail to finish in the top four. I actually think this game will end in a sad draw.My prediction: The Reds 2-2 The GunnersManchester United Vs Bournemouth Today 3:30pmOh no! I have just realised that Manchester United could temporarily go ahead of Arsenal if they beat Bournemouth in this game. They play early and just like the Gunners they have a game in hand. A win would take them a point ahead of Arsenal as the Gunners play later in the evening. Given how the Red Devils have been playing in the league of late, there is every indication that their good run will continue. All the talk this week, however, has been how they were outplayed by a Southampton side that was unfortunate to have a goal ruled offside when replays showed it was good. This cost the Saints the League Cup or at least, a chance to take the game into extra time. But United know what to do to get the ultimate job done. It isn&rsquo;t all about the 90 minute performance but those key moments that get goals or block them. Zlatan Ibrahimovich is the man to watch. He is always the man to watch! Bournemouth, however, is four points off the relegation zone and will want to stay clear of any threat to the Championship. I think they&rsquo;ll put up a good fight and end up with a point.My Prediction: The Red Devils 2-2 BournemouthWest Ham Vs Chelsea Monday 11pmA formality match just so that Chelsea can see out the league and win the title. But London derbys can be tricky. In recent weeks, we&rsquo;ve also seen the Blues settling for draws &ndash; against Liverpool and Burnley &ndash; but it&rsquo;s because they are playing with ease. They know they have the season wrapped up and can afford to get their foot of the gas, a little. But West Ham will come out fighting in this game. They have two wins and two draws in their last five matches but they are chasing a Europa League spot, as usual. And they can do it. Their last two matches saw them draw against West Brom and Watford and I&rsquo;ll go crazy here and say they were saving themselves for Chelsea. What bollocks! They will need to step up greatly to get even a point here, but they are capable of that. And even though most of their wins this season have been away from home, they do realise that psychologically it&rsquo;s now or never to make a charge for a decent finish.My Prediction: The Hammers 1-1 The Blues