Nyeri Governor Samuel Wamathai, who was sworn in last week, yesterday said he will defend the seat at the August 8 poll.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m now heading to Nairobi to present my nomination papers so I can defend my seat come August 8,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m ready to go to the field and face other candidates. Nobody is carrying a baby on his back. Let&rsquo;s meet in the field.&rdquo;He assumed the mantle after the death of first Governor Nderitu Gachagua. The 61-year-old county boss has yet to name his running mate.The latest development is poised to change the county&rsquo;s political landscape. Senator Mutahi Kagwe, too, is said to be eyeing the seat.Other hopefuls include former director of Vision 2030 Wahome Gakuru, industrialist Githinji Cocorico, hotelier Patrick Munene, Thuo Mathenge (owner of Brade Gate Poultry Industries) and Wachira Keen (Athi Water Services chairman).The race has been billed the Battle of Billionaires. It will be interesting to see who between Kagwe and Wamathai will get the support of the Gachagua family. The two were close friends of the late governor.Wamathai spoke at the Green Hills Hotel in Nyeri town after county secretary Alice Wachira and six CECs &mdash; Stanley Miano, Lucy Wanyitu, Robert Thuo, Timothy Ngunyangi, Charles Githinji and Erastus Muriuki &mdash; were sworn in afresh.He said there was no need for the executives to be vetted afresh.Wamathai said he sought advice from the Attorney General&rsquo;s Office and was told to swear in his predecessor&rsquo;s ministers if he had confidence in them.He said they can continue with their work and urged the county assembly to understand that the law had been followed.The majority of the MCAs were not in Gachagua&rsquo;s good books and have been criticised for derailing the county&rsquo;s development by delaying budgets. Wamathai added that he will fill in the four remaining posts subject to vetting by the assembly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t fear any backlash from MCAs. I&rsquo;m following the law. The people of Nyeri are behind me, but I&rsquo;m ready for any discussions,&rdquo; he said.Education and ICT CEC Muriuki urged MCAs to cooperate with the new governor so that together they can ensure Gachagua&rsquo;s projects are completed.He said Sh48 million has been set aside this financial year to pay early childhood development and education teachers.