Opposition chief Raila Odinga has defended his Coast pointman Hassan Joho and censured President Uhuru Kenyatta for the continuous state crackdown on the Mombasa governor. An angry Raila accused Uhuru of what he termed abuse of presidential powers, saying the era when his father Jomo Kenyatta threatened to crush opponents like maize flour is long gone. Ironically, it was Raila’s father Jaramogi Odinga who was warned by Kenyatta Senior in 1969 that “had we not been friends, I would have crushed you like flour”. Terming Joho as one of his soldiers, Raila yesterday vowed that the opposition will not be intimidated by the police and the military. He said the people are on their side. “He is abusing the powers of the Presidency. He must know that he is violating the Constitution and we can recommend his impeachment,” the NASA co-principal told Bunge La Mwananchi. “We can’t be intimidated because you have the police and the army. We have the military of the people. If it’s that bad, we can ask Kenyans to take to the streets.” The governor’s latest troubles began on Sunday when his ODM party mounted a massive rally in the historic Tononoka Grounds where the six coastal counties resolved to back Raila for President. Two days later, he was summoned by police to record a statement on his academic certificates after the Kenya National Examinations Council dismissed his result slip as a forgery. This leaves the governor, popularly known in ODM circles as Superman or Sultan, in a delicate position. He could face criminal prosecution, his two bachelor degrees could be cancelled, and he may be barred from defending his seat. But Raila said Uhuru has been targetting Joho and warned he will face the consequences. He highlighted Joho’s latest tribulations, saying the governor’s bank accounts have also been frozen to cripple him financially. “Joho went to America the other day, if he was dealing in drugs they would have detained him there,” Raila said, trashing claims that his ally is a drug baron. “We are saying enough is enough. We are not going to tolerate this presidential abuse of power on a daily basis...You are the President today, you will not be President tomorrow. Let’s do peaceful elections.” During his March 13 tour of Mombasa, Uhuru told Joho: “Don’t play with me...Mombasa is for everyone,” Uhuru said at Mtongwe. “Why follow me? Why should we follow each other? I am not his wife.” Shortly after, the Kenya Revenue Authority directed Stanbic Bank to freeze Joho’s six accounts.  