Some people are unhappy with the use of the word invasion in Laikipia today.Europeans arrived and built a railway in Kenya in roughly 1900. A census put the population at two million in what was to become Kenya.At Independence in 1963 a survey revealed roughly seven million. A census in 2010 produced over 40 million. There are now nearer 50 million and it will be 100 million in 40 years.There have never been more than roughly 50,000 Caucasians in Kenya. The Laikipia Treaty in 1904 moved a few thousand Maasai to southern Kenya but some stayed and Laikipia Maasai still occupy group ranches (Il Ngwezi and Tassia) and some subdivided ex-colonial ranches.If Laikipia is one million acres, there are approximately 500,000 in private hands in ranches and conservancies that encourage wildlife.The Samburu reserve/homeland was always well north of Laikipia and comprises over two million acres ruled by a gerontocracy of the elders. They only migrated into Kenya 400 years ago and displaced some other ethnic groups as they did so.Pokots occupied the area north and west of Lake Baringo and up the side of the Rift Valley s eastern wall. It is another large homeland but the Pokots have traditionally clashed and cattle raided against Turkana and Samburu.The Powys family came to Kenya and worked for Lord Delamere before World War I. Samburu and Ndorobo armed youth occupied their Suyian ranch, 44,000 acres, and burned the tourist camp in February.The Suyian Ranch runs nearly 4,000 head of its own cattle and employs 150 people. There are now at least 8,000 cattle on Suyian.In 1999 I put a consortium together to purchase the Sosian Ranch from a bank who exercised their charge on the property from Kikuyu owners. There was no grass or game on the farm. The Samburu who had squatted there had moved off because nothing was left.We now have 1,800 cattle and stick to the crucial 1 beast to 15 acre ratio. We employ 150 people at the tourist lodge and pay $200,000 (Sh20.1 million) in tax every year.It is a culmination of 18 years of love and investment but we are bracing for an armed walk-on any day now.In mid-February we heard the OCPD Rumuruti was shot in the neck just outside Rumuruti on Kifuku Farm, which has been in the Aggett family for 80 years.Kifuku is a fifth-generation farm of 8,000 acres with no game. It has been besieged by fully armed Pokots and Samburu for six months. The police have been quite supportive, as this is a political invasion by bigwigs to drive families off the land.Rumuruti is relatively urban and more Kikuyu than anything else. Kifuku has ceased farming and placed all their livestock with neighbors such as ourselves.Mugie Ranch, 49,000 acres just north of us, was purchased from its African owners around 20 years ago by a true philanthropist, Nicky Hahn, a Swiss national who developed a successful wine business in California.Mugie is on the border of Pokot and Samburu and is the last ranch going north. Nicky built a primary and secondary school for over 200 children and spent millions of dollars on community and development projects.Mugie was walked onto in December and their 5,000 head of cattle and teeming game population was augmented by 40,000 head of cattle.Grisly Pokot rituals of warrior status involving big game, long since extirpated in their own lands, have been revived.Elephant, buffalo, giraffe and other game have been shot and mutilated.The northern tribes may be desperate in the latest, but by no means catastrophic, drought. Six years of reasonable rain have allowed them to overstock their domestic stock while fat cats put stolen money into livestock as an untraceable asset.The degradation of the fragile Northern sandy soils, which supported man, livestock and game for thousands of years, is nearly complete and will take decades to recover.Tragically their home areas still teem with women, children and huge herds of sheep and goats. The cattle have moved south with the young men who do not listen to the elders any more and are armed to the teeth because they know they are breaking the law.If the Laikipia ranch owners left, these people would be happy for a very short time, as they swamped the land and destroyed every last blade of grass. The attitude of if I do not get that last blade, somebody else will is paramount. Sadly that is the paradigm that governs most overpopulated pastoral activity today.Do these four examples from Laikipia justify the term invasion ?The population statistics are the cause of the problem. Sadly Laikipia and Kenya are one small example of the greatest challenge mankind has yet faced.What chance is there for the wildlife and tourism, let alone ourselves, in the long run?Tristan Voorspuy, 60, was shot dead on Sosian Ranch on March 5.