Senator Mike Sonko has submitted nomination papers for Nairobi governor at the Jubilee party offices in Pangani. Sonko made his submission two days after rival Peter Kenneth presented his nomination papers. The Senator was accompanied by 'Team Nairobi' leaders Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, who also presented their papers on Friday afternoon. Wanjiru and Waweru also intend to vie for Nairobi governor. Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja was also among the leaders at the party offices. Sakaja earlier quit the race for governor and intends to run for Sonko's current seat. Read: Sakaja quits governor race, presents nomination papers for senator More on this: Sonko finally gets certificate of good conduct, beats JP nomination hurdles Receiving the papers on Friday, Jubilee Secretariat Raphael Tuju congratulated the members. "I congratulate the people who have brought the papers today. The nomination will be a fair process," Tuju said. Tuju said the Jubilee party's focus is to get Nairobi to become a Jubilee county adding "we enjoy immense support in the city." In addition to education certificates, political parties require aspirants to submit compliance certificates from the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Higher Education Loans Board, and the Credit Reference Bureau. On Thursday, the Senator posted photos of these as documents on social media, as well as those of his certificate of good conduct from the directorate of criminal investigations. 'Team Nairobi still together' Speaking after presenting the papers, Wanjiru said Team Nairobi is still together. "We are standing together as one. If either one of them return their papers like Sakaja we are still team Nairobi," Wanjiru said. "We are here to demonstrate that we are united. Tumekuja hapa kusema (we have come here to say) we are the people. We have been brought by thousands of Kenyans," Waweru said. The MP said their team can bring the desired change in Nairobi. "Wananchi wa Nairobi wako kwa team Nairobi ... (Nairobi residents are in 'Team Nairobi'). We can deliver Kenyans come August polls. Tuko pamoja," he said. The politicians had a meeting at Norfolk hotel prior to the submission. The August 8 election has seen Nairobi politicians split into two factions. Team Nairobi is made up of Sonko, Sakaja, Wanjiru and Waweru. The team's talks on the best candidate to face Kenneth have hit a snag. Kenneth, who is from Murang'a county, is in the other team with Nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi and MPs Rachel Shebesh (woman representative), Maina Kamanda (Starehe) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North). Read: Jubilee's Team Nairobi in turmoil after Sakaja, Sonko hit hurdles