Activist Okiya Omtatah has sensationally claimed that Chief Justice David Maraga wants to punish a judge for ruling in favour of Auditor General Edward Ouko. He said, in a press statement on Friday, that Maraga wants to transfer High Court judge Chacha Mwita out of Nairobi for 'shielding Ouko from scrutiny'. The auditor, following a petition by Emanuel Mwagambo, is being probed by MPs for violation of procurement laws and for brewing nepotism at his office. Omtatah said he has information from reliable sources that Justice Mwita will be transferred out of Nairobi for issuing orders against the government. This came as the CJ held a closed-door meeting, whose agenda was not disclosed, with all heads of decision at Milimani law court. "The CJ is also reported to be putting pressure on individual judges not to issue orders against the government," Omtatah said. Justice Mwita heads the Constitutional and Human Rights division of the High Court. He issued the orders stopping the National Assembly's finance committee from discussing the Ouko ouster petition. This follows a case filed by Omtatah on grounds that the petition to hound Ouko out of office over the Sh100 million tender is malicious. Ouko has also filed a similar case seeking to stop further deliberations on the petition for his removal. His lawyer Otiende Amollo said on Thursday warned parliament against continuing with engagements on the matter. He said such action will make the probe declared null and void since the same will be in contravention of the court orders. The judge also stopped Speaker Justin Muturi and the National Assembly from adopting or discussing the committee's recommendations. Read: Court bars MPs from debating petition to remove Auditor Ouko Also read: DPP clears Auditor General Edward Ouko over abuse of office claims The activist said the independence of individual judges, who are tasked with interpreting and applying the law, should be respected. "I strongly urge the chief justice to abandon the destructive path he has embarked on," Omtatah said. "...if for nothing else but to avoid making protagonists lose confidence in the judiciary," he said. The activist added that judicial independence means that judges are not subjected to 'external pressure and influence'. "Judges should be free to make impartial decisions based solely on fact and law," Omtatah said. The activist said judicial independence is often misunderstood as something that is for the benefit of the judge. "It is not. It is the public guarantee that a judge will be impartial," he said. More on this: Voter petitions MPs to sack Auditor General Edward Ouko over graft allegations   