The Lake Region Health and Investment Conference to be held in Kisii this week will discuss ways of curbing non-communicable diseases. The meeting will be held on Wednesday and Thursday in the Kisii University grounds. There has been a marked rise in the numbers of non-communicable diseases for the past five years. The number of people suffering from diabetes has risen from an average of 2,002 to 3,038 in five years. Hypertension cases have doubled from 5,950 to 11,009 people. According to the World health Organization, the diseases claim 17 million people every year, with nearly 50,000 men, women and children dying every day. Speaking to the Star on Friday, Governor James Ongwae said governors from the 13 counties that form the region and experts will use the two-day conference to deliberate on issues affecting the people. The 13 counties are Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet, Busia, Kakamega, Kericho, Migori, Homa Bay, Siaya, Kisumu, Trans Nzoia, Vihiga and Bungoma. “We will use the conference, to deliberate on a number of issues, especially non-communicable diseases that claim the lives of our people annually,” Ongwae said. He said they will be wooing the private sector to drive the health sector, saying the counties cannot work alone and succeed. “The health sector in developed countries is driven by the private sector. That is why we will also be seeking to involve them to drive our counties,” Ongwae said. On Thursday last week, Ongwae and his Kisumu counterpart Jack Ranguma held a press briefing in a Kisumu hotel, where they highlighted the conference’s expectations. Ongwae said for counties to curb diseases in the region, they will involve experts. He said health in some counties has improved, but in others, the sector needs a lot of attention. For instance, statistics indicate the maternal mortality rate in the counties has declined from 144.2 to 92.8 for every 100,000 women from 2012, while the maternal death audits declined from 172.8 per cent as low as 69.9 per cent. The number of children who were immunised fell to 69.3 per cent, down from 82.35 per cent. Mothers attending antenatal clinics dropped from 137.75 per cent to 78.3 per cent. “There is need to scale up health advocacy activities to the community and scale up the activities of community units,” Ongwae said. The governor also said there has been increased awareness on cervical cancer over the years.