The Catholic Church has warned aspirants against asking for votes during religious gatherings.Catholic Diocese of Kitale Bishop Maurice Crowley said most aspirants use the Church to gain political mileage. He spoke at the Kiminini Parish Catholic Church on Sunday. Representatives from schools sponsored by the Catholic Church were present. The church donated blankets, clothing, foods and sanitary towels to schools. Crowley said, &ldquo;The church should not be used as a place for politics where people convince Christians to vote for them yet some of them do not belong to any faith. They do not believe in God.&rdquo;He continued, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m aware of what is happening in most churches in the region and I ask you fellow Christians to shun leaders who misuse the Church.&rdquo;Crowley called for peaceful campaigns and urged congregants to vote wisely. &ldquo;I ask you to put God first and preach peace across Kenya as you exercise your democratic right to vote. We need a peaceful election so I urge you to elect leaders with a vision,&rdquo; he said.Crowley urged worshippers to live in harmony to avoid a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence. He said the Church should be at the forefront in preaching peace. &ldquo;We should not take Kenya back to where it was in 2007 when our people lost their lives and others were left homeless. Instead, let us unite the masses for a better Kenya,&rdquo; Crowley said. Last year, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi barred legislators from participating in fundraisers. Many politicians continue to make donations during harambees, pretending they are giving cash for a goat, for instance.Last month, Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and five MCAs gave cash donations during a harambee at Mboroga Methodist Church. Money was raised for a residential house for the priest in Kibirichia ward, Buuri subcounty.Kiraitu contributed Sh40,000 while Titus Ntuchiu, his proposed running mate for Meru governor, gave Sh20,000. Kiraitu said, &ldquo;The law does not allow us to participate in this ... because we will be barred and disqualified... I want to buy you a goat of Sh40,000.&rdquo;