A few days ago, I watched Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko&rsquo;s interview on Citizen TV and his remarks disappointed me. The first question that came to mind was: Is he under the influence? Apart from being disorderly and rowdy, he was arrogant as well.These observations were shared by some of Sonko&rsquo;s staunch supporters. In Githurai, most took issue with his comments dismissing his rival for the Nairobi governor&rsquo;s seat Peter Kenneth as an albino.&ldquo;We have changed our mind and we will vote for PK.&rdquo; &ldquo;You cannot call yourself a leader when you discriminate against a section of the people you supposed to lead,&rdquo; were among the comments.Kenneth and Sonko are battling for the JP ticket. Kenneth has kept his cool, even in the face of extreme provocation. His message is clear, &ldquo;We are members of the same family, shooting in the same direction. So, we are supposed to play a friendly match.&rdquo; But not Sonko.He has hit out at Kenneth for not supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013. He has branded Kenneth a traitor and swore on his mother and father&rsquo;s graves that he will never support him.A day earlier, Kenneth had reached out to him and expressed willingness to sit down with him and other members of Team Nairobi to discuss on how to put their house in order. If this meeting took place, a strong line-up would have been crafted.Notably, Jubilee is not only planning to unseat Governor Evans Kidero of ODM, but also clinch as many MP and MCA seats as possible. But with the tug-of-war, JP supporters in Nairobi fear this may not happen.Sonko has already hinted that if he loses the nomination he will bolt and run on an opposition party ticket. He is on record saying if Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is picked as NASA flagbearer, he will ditch JP for the opposition coalition.He joined former Lands CS Charity Ngilu&rsquo;s supporters at a courtroom in Nairobi to hear the proceedings of her corruption case. This show of solidarity came soon after Ngilu was fired from the Cabinet. Besides her, Uhuru fired four other CSs and seven PSs after they were adversely mentioned in mega corruption. Her case was dropped.In my opinion, PK&rsquo;s 2013 presidential bid did not mean he harboured ill-feelings against Uhuru. As a gentleman with an ambition to lead this nation, he had to start somewhere.Unlike other presidential candidates, and specifically Raila Odinga and Martha Karua, Kenneth did not support Uhuru&rsquo;s ICC trial.In 2002, Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru, who are from the same community, ran for President and reconciled after the election.Sonko is also an ambitious man. Sometime back he said he is third in command, and when UhuRuto were out of country, he was the one running the show.Some JP leaders have hit out at him for claiming they attempted to stop him from seeking the JP ticket. When he presented his nomination papers, JP declined to accept them because the certificate of good conduct was missing.The question of his academic qualifications was also raised. Sonko made frantic efforts to secure the certificate and managed to beat the deadline.One JP leader asked, &ldquo;Imagine Governor Sonko at the airport receiving US President Donald Trump on his maiden visit to Kenya. Given his behaviour, what picture would he present?&rdquo; Your guess is as good as mine. Sonko should get serious. The role of governor is huge and needs a sober person.