Tycoon Raj Devani has been charged with assaulting his mother and will appear in court on Thursday for bail ruling. Devani was arrested on Tuesday and arraigned in court on Wednesday. He denied assaulting Bambi Harikrishna on February 28 at Runda estate in Nairobi. The prosecution, led by Diana Orago, urged the court not to grant the businessman bail since he has other cases. "The accused has failed the tests of attending court sessions. Two other courts in Milimani and Narok have issued warrants [for his arrest]," said Orago. She also told the court that the tycoon lives with his mother in the same house. "... the accused assaulted her there [and] she is afraid [that if] released on bail, he can abuse or assault her in the house," she said. The court heard that Harikrishna had received threatening SMSs from her son since his arrest and that he had emotionally abused her in the past. "The complainant received threats from the accused reading "you will remember this day" when she reported the matter to the police," the prosecution said. But Devani's lawyer Steve Kimathi said he was charged with a misdemeanour, which is bailable. Kimathi also said the prosecution was relying on speculation not supported by an affidavit. "The prosecution should not be prejudicial with the rights of the accused while relying on information of the victim which can be put to tests, since there is no verification of the information," the lawyer said. He asked the prosecution to put the victim in witness protection. Kiambu senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo said she will rule on bail at 11:40am after the prosecution provides affidavits. Security guard Enock Bikeri accused Devani of assault in 2012 but later withdrew his complaint. Police were investigating Devani over accusations that he used his gun to threaten the guard. But Bikeri, through a letter to the OCS Parklands police station dated November 15, said he was withdrawing the complaint ''voluntarily and in the spirit of reconciliation''.