Wiper has threatened to bolt from NASA if its boss Kalonzo Musyoka is not declared the opposition presidential candidate in seven days.&ldquo;If it is not Kalonzo, that will be the end of NASA,&rdquo; National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze declared emphatically yesterday.&ldquo;It (NASA) could change into something like Nyanza Super Alliance, because we will pull out," he told reporters at Parliament Buildings.The statement by Nyenze, a close Kalonzo ally who sits on NASA's powerful National Coordinating Committee, was the clearest signal yet the opposition was staring at a potentially disastrous split.Kalonzo did not respond to calls and texts requesting comment.One veteran political observer said Kalonzo appears to be upping the stakes and bargaining hard, but doubted he would leave NASA.Nyenze' reference to the remaining Nyanza Super Alliance appeared to be a snide remark directed at ODM leader Raila Odinga.Once again, the Kitui West MP said he was speaking with the blessings of Kalonzo who, meanwhile, has been insisting Wiper is in NASA to stay.&ldquo;I am not speaking as Nyenze, I am speaking for his Excellency Kalonzo Musyoka, the Wiper party and the Kamba people. This is the last chance. We cannot go round in circles trying to waste time,&rdquo; Nyenze said.Comment:&nbsp; Kalonzo was bound to bolt from NASA over flagbearerRead:&nbsp; Wiper downplays Nyenze's claim of 'Kalonzo going it alone' over NASA ticket rowWiper chairman David Musila last evening told the Star the official party position was that Wiper was not planning to leave the alliance.Shortly after Nyenze issued his ultimatum, party secretary general Hassan Omar agreed with the urgency of choosing Kalonzo.Omar maintained, however, Wiper would stay inside NASA, even if Kalonzo is not chosen to fly the NASA flag."What is wrong with Nyenze putting our position out there?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;He is our negotiator and has the right to speak strongly. We have strong faith in him.&rdquo;But Nyenze was immediately denounced by Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama who declared NASA is bigger than the Kitui West MP.&ldquo;It's his constitutional right to say what he wants as long as he is not breaking the law. But it should be clear NASA is bigger than Nyenze,&rdquo; Muthama told the Star. He is one of the four co[chairs of the same critical National Coordinating CommitteeOn Nyenze's claim to be speaking for Kalonzo and Wiper, Muthama retorted, &ldquo;Then it's up to Kalonzo to confirm. For Wiper, I have stated we are in NASA.&rdquo;Muthama, a former key Kalonzo ally, is reportedly being pushed out of the former Vice President's inner circle.&ldquo;Soon and very soon, you are going to know the boss,&rdquo; Muthama sang, repeating the lyrics of a famous Gospel song.&ldquo;You can see I am very happy. Do I look like I am worried about what Nyenze said? Do I look like am concerned. If you ask me, 99.9 per cent of members of the committee [NCC] are not worried about what he said.&rdquo;However, ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire, who also sits on the NCC, responded, &ldquo;On this one I reserve comment,&rdquo; signalling the sensitivity of the Kalonzo-Wiper issue.&ldquo;We have operating rules. We meet, we agree to disagree, agreeably. In other words, we discuss. Ultimatums out there, I don't know. That is not the framework within our discussions. So I would not comment,&rdquo; Bosire said.Nyenze said Kalonzo was not ready to play second fiddle to anyone, dismissing the NASA technical committee of experts as compromised.&ldquo;That committee is skewed and the results will favour only one side, so we don&rsquo;t have to keep meeting. Even if we meet 100 times, we will not agree until the MoU is honoured,&rdquo; Nyenze said.Under the 2013 Raila-Kalonzo MoU, Raila would be a one-term President and support Kalonzo in 2017. ODM says since Raila didn't win, the pact is void and irrelevant. Wiper says it is everything.The committee warned excluding the ODM leader and former Prime Minister would outrage his supporters and convert intact opposition bastions into battlegrounds with Jubilee.The committee includes economist Dr David Ndii, Nairobi University don Dr Adams Oloo, Kabarak University law don Elisha Ongoya, former member of the defunct Constitution of Kenya Review Commission Abubakar Zein and ex-Mumias Sugar Company chairman Dan Ameyo.Nyenze said the MoU pact was the reason for delaying talks on selecting a candidate, which could have broken the deadlock."Let's be sincere, let us honour our pledges. This one is the last straw that will break the camel&rsquo;s back," Nyenze said.&ldquo;Every time, now because of that demand, whenever we set to meet as NCC, the meeting is postponed. We were supposed to have a meeting yesterday but it was postponed. The reason is they fear the question of the MoU," the MP said.ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi yesterday distanced himself from the 2013 MoU.Speaking at party headquarters, Mudavadi said he was not part of the 2013 Cord pact and therefore could not respond to issues around it.He insisted the opposition remains united.&ldquo;I was not part of the agreement signed between Cord parties, so I cannot comment," Mudavadi said.In the past two weeks, Kalonzo has engaged in a whirlwind of meetings with Ukambani leaders to consolidate his bastion, sparking speculation he could be preparing to go it alone, if he is denied the NASA bannerHe was absent, however, from a meeting between Raila, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula on Tuesday, signalling his displeasure with the alliance.Instead ,Kalonzo held a big rally at Emali, bringing together all political leaders and opinion makers from his Ukambani turf in a major display of might as he pushes for the alliance ticket.Kalonzo managed to secure the backing of his erstwhile arch-rival Charity Ngilu of Narc &mdash; a major political reap that increased his stakes in NASA and reduced antagonism within his backyard.Political parties or coalitions must submit the names of presidential candidates to theIndependent Electoral and Boundaries Commission by May 10.