University student leaders are planning to petition Parliament next week Tuesday to intervene and end the ongoing lecturers&rsquo; strike.The student leaders drawn from both public and private universities say the persistence of the strike threatens the continuity of proper learning in institutions of higher education across the country. &ldquo;Given that the right to education is guaranteed under the constitution, we feel that it is being infringed by students staying at home because lecturers are not there to attend to them,&rdquo; Moi University student chairman (Nairobi campus) Edwin Kegoli said. He said the resolve to seek the intervention of the upper House is further premised on the fact that the strike would affect the consistency of the length of the academic calendar as well as research activities. &ldquo;Students with artistic skills no longer get the much preferred instructions from lecturers given that freedom of artistic creativity is enshrined under Article 33(1b),&rdquo; Kegoli said.He noted that students pursuing academic and scientific research are greatly inconvenienced since they heavily rely on the guidance and instruction of their tutors. &ldquo;Students&rsquo; concentration and focus (is also affected) as idleness exposes them to the risk of engaging in nonconstructive activities,&rdquo; Kegoli said.Read: Matiang'i asks lecturers to halt strike until March for negotiationsFurther, Kegoli stated that privately sponsored students - especially those operating on study leaves - will be inconvenienced as any alteration to the semester directly affects their timelines. &ldquo;The study (programme) is also costly and the students concerned would appreciate if they sailed as per the normal schedule. Some organisations may also not extend their study leaves,&rdquo; he said. Speaking to the Star Saturday night, Kegoli said student leaders from universities outside Nairobi are expected to arrive in the city by Monday evening.He confirmed that they have observed all the legal requirements to hold peaceful processions, including seeking clearance from the police.&ldquo;On Monday we will be writing to Nairobi Central police as required by law to notify them of our intention. We are law abiding citizens,&rdquo; Kegoli said.According to him, the student leaders will converge at Jevanjee Gardens on Tuesday at 10am where they will be joined by other students.The students will then be briefed before proceeding to parliament through Moi Avenue and City Hall Way.&ldquo;I want to stress that the processions will be peaceful,&rdquo; Kegoli said adding that student leaders in Nairobi and its environs will meet on Monday morning to discuss the issue at length. &ldquo;We want the government to come out clean and address these issues. We don&rsquo;t want to be a striking nation,&rdquo; Kegoli added. The lecturers&rsquo; strike, which has paralyzed learning in all public universities in the country, entered its 45th day on Saturday. The dons have maintained that they would only go back to work upon the negotiation, signing, registration and implementation of the 2013 CBA. The government offered Sh10 billion a month ago to cater for basic salaries and allowances of staff at public universities, but the tutors turned down the amount terming it too small.Read: State offers striking lecturers Sh10 billionRelated: Tutors to decide on accepting Sh4.8bn offered by lawmakersThey are demanding for a 300 per cent pay rise that would give 30 per cent increase on salaries and 20 per cent rise on house allowance.