Some Murang&rsquo;a residents are eating leaves and wild fruit to survive, hoping for food aid to ease their suffering in the drought.They are faint with hunger. The distressed wananchi are mainly from Makuyu, Kamahuha, Maragua, Kiharu, Kambiti, Ithanga and Kakuzi.About 30,000 residents are starving, according to county officials. Their crops failed last year because of inadequate rains.This despite efforts by the national and county governments to help. More than 500 families have been receiving food donations in semi-arid areas.On Tuesday, the United Arab Emirates donated four tonnes of food for the county.Murang&rsquo;a county commissioner John Elungata led the distribution in Kambirwa, Mirira and Gikindu in Murang&rsquo;a East subcounty. He told residents the government is doing everything possible to prevent loss of life.&ldquo;We will continue to supply relief food to all the affected until they harvest their own food,&rdquo; Elungata said.He said the government is receiving help from other countries. The administrator was accompanied by Senator Kembi Gitura. He said village elders are helping to identify those hardest hit by drought to ensure they are assisted first.&ldquo;We know not everybody is suffering. We will concentrate on the neediest families first to ensure the available food serves all who critically need it,&rdquo; Elungata said.He urged victims to continue registering with their chiefs so they can benefit from relief food.Elungata said the government is also providing clean water in Kambiti and Ithanga, where rivers have dried up.Gitura said food security programmes are essential to end perennial suffering. He said most parts of Murang&rsquo;a have rich soils and residents only require sufficient water supply for irrigation to increase food production. Gitura also urged farmers to stop relying only on rain-fed agriculture and start irrigation to ensure steady food supply.He blamed reliance on rain for the hunger crisis. &ldquo;Murang&rsquo;a will receive at least Sh350 million in the next financial year to facilitate irrigation projects in the semi-arid parts of the county,&rdquo; Gitura said.He called for proper use of public resources.Living standards will only improve if money is invested in long-term projects that are socially beneficial and sustainable, Gitura said.Famine has been a problem in a number of counties, especially those in arid and semi-arid lands.