Arsenal Vs Lincoln City, Today 8:30pmMy Prediction: Gunners....3 Lincoln...1I think it s time to call it a season; crawl back into my hide-out and hibernate until August when the new season begins. Wuh! To be an Arsenal fan is the hardest thing in the world! In the past, I have joked about the strength needed to be one but it s a serious issue now and we really need prayers. We all knew that Arsenal would be removed from the Champions League but not in the manner it happened. Not with another 5-1 score-line. I would love to say that Lincoln City is a no brainer and we will release the shame of the Bayern Munich game on them although nothing is certain. The mood in the Gunners camp is at an all time low with players are threatening to leave at the end of the season. The boardhas also declined to say whether manager Arsene Wenger will leave at the end of the season; which is what we are all waiting for. Sigh! I do think we will win in this game only because it is Lincoln City who are in the fifth tier of English football but if it was a Championship side then I would doubt we had the heart to deliver.Chelsea Vs Man United, Monday 10:45pm,My Prediction: Blues 2 Red Devils...2This is a huge tie as it s the most successful club in England versus the inform team and league champions-in-waiting, Chelsea. Manchester United may have struggled in recent weeks to get maximum points in matches but you can never write them off in a big tie. They would face Barcelona today and beat them and then go on and draw with Bournemouth and Rostov. So it doesn t matter who is fit or not here; both teams have great squads with players, who can change any game; and this will be a matter of will-power. Of course, Man United want this more because even though they are still in the Europa League, they have a more realistic chance of winning this cup and they know that. Europa teams are so unpredictable so they ll want to get silverware at home. This is such a tough game to predict because Chelsea are getting the results and United have the mental strength; but both have the players. I think it will be a draw and force a replay.Liverpool Vs Burnley, Tomorrow 7pmMy Prediction: Reds..2 Burnley...2I love this time of the season because nothing is predictable. While Liverpool are on top of the world having won over Arsenal last weekend, they are playing a team that fears no-one. In fact Burnley s fear knows no bounds and this is evident by how they beat Liverpool 2-0 in the first leg of this tie. While the other big teams are in FA Cup action this weekend, this is a league tie after the Reds were unceremoniously dumped out of the FA Cup. Burnley may only have one win out of their last five matches but they can boast of wins over the likes of Leicester, Southampton not mention Liverpool this season. Last month, however, they were one of the few teams to draw with league leaders Chelsea this term. They play with heart and they have the skill to trouble any team, though most of their wins this season have come at home. Today they ll be in the dreaded Anfield but something tells me that they have prepared well for that. We ve seen Liverpool on such a topsy-turvy run this term; getting a big win, then losing or drawing the next game and so on. This won t be easy for either club.