The senseless attempt by government to deny media advertising revenue goes against the tenets of democratic governance and free market economy to which the Jubilee regime merely pays lip service.Jubilee is extremely angry that the media has exposed wanton corruption, pilferage and actual looting of public coffers by the high and mighty. The economy is on its knees. The dalliance with stealing public money will not end merely by clamping down on free media.Jubilee ought to be aware of the old wise adage that says given a choice, citizens will choose the media over government no matter how tasteless the media is. The rule is that no matter how obnoxious the media may appear to government, no government in its right senses has a right to guillotine media by denying it revenue.Free media are part of a stable democracy. They add rationale to freedom of expression and right to information. To deny media revenue is to gag media and therefore close the avenues for free expression and access to undiluted information by the citizenry. To behave in such manner is to sabotage the citizens.Freedom of information as a basic constitutional right cannot be granted at Jubilee&rsquo;s leisurely whim. Kenyans are mature enough to decide which media to pay attention to without the government policing the information space. If the government is keen on pliant media, it has enough public media utilities under its control.Jubilee has had a love-hate relationship with the media. In the love triangle, Jubilee leaders have not hidden their appetite to gobble up media ownership through insider acquisitions. On the hate end, the appetite to channel all government advertising billions to their owned media is clear. The new edict only serves that purpose.The assaults on media freedom by Jubilee are some of the symptoms of regimes that are about to fall. Like a dying horse, the Jubilee regime is frantic in its last kick. The control freak has been rolled out. Jubilee&rsquo;s impunity and the bad manners it is exhibiting are learnt from the Chinese Communist Party they visited recently.The collateral damage target is not even the media but the Kenyans&rsquo; right to know and undermining shareholders&rsquo; right to have a fair return on their investment. Most mainstream media the regime is targetting are publicly listed companies. The investors are Kenyans. What crime did these Kenyans commit by putting their savings into media companies?The platform of market economy that Jubilee implores investors to take advantage of has been proven a ruse by the actions to suppress information. Sanity must return in the Jubilee government to prevent an escalation of impunity that could ruin the country. NASA appeals to Kenyans of goodwill and international partners to take note of the Jubilee regime for what it is &mdash; a scavenger. They should beware that their investments are at risk under Jubilee.NASA founder and ANC party leader