President Uhuru Kenyatta has explained his recent outbursts, saying he gets annoyed when the opposition lies to Kenyans about his administration.A remorseful Uhuru said on Sunday that he will stop hurling insults, adding that he is a human being and sometimes makes mistakes."When you stand, yours is to incite. When you stand, yours is to sow hatred. That is why sometimes I get angry and I call them what I call them," he told residents during a rally in Mombasa.&ldquo;We are all human. When one speaks some things &hellip; I say they are certain people because of anger,&rdquo; he added.Uhuru noted he gets frustrated by people "who have eyes but do not see, have ears but do not hear and have brains but do not think".&ldquo;Anyway, I will not insult them again. But they have seen I am ready to insult them if they continue. Everyone is able to [insult],&rdquo; he said.Read: Eight classic outbursts by President Uhuru KenyattaThe President&rsquo;s latest outburst was in Turkana last Wednesday when he told residents they could keep their votes on August 8.He called an unnamed leader, widely thought to be Governor Josephat Nanok, a foolish devil."Those who think I can be intimidated should look for someone else. We shall ask for your votes like the rest. If you choose to give or refuse, it&rsquo;s fine. Do you think the world will come to an end? It will not," he said in Lodwar.Senate speaker Ekwe Ethuro on Sunday told NTV that Uhuru was not referring to Nanok but some leaders who go to Turkana and lie to the people.Raila is among leaders who visited Turkana a week before the President's visit.[AUDIO] Uhuru calls Nanok a foolish devil for raising queries on oil wealth'Uhuru needs prayers'On Saturday, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said Uhuru needs prayers from Kenyans as he is undergoing so much stress which manifests itself in his outburst.&ldquo;Let us pray for Uhuru Kenyatta. He has got so unbelievable stress,&rdquo; Kalonzo said in Kilifi county.But he urged the President to check his anger saying leadership is about perserverence.On Sunday, Uhuru said Kenya has been turned into a country of lies and propaganda.He bashed the opposition for claiming the Jubilee administration is borrowing too much.He said the borrowed funds are channeled towards development projects including water, electricity, roads, health centres, among other projects.&ldquo;We borrow because our infrastructure is poor, which has caused our country to have a backlog of economic growth and development,&rdquo; the President said.He said dilapidated infrastructure leads to a high cost of doing business, forcing industries to close shop, which renders youth jobless.&ldquo;That is why we decided to do massive upscale in investment in our security sector, roads, water, electricity, in order to make it easier and less expensive to do business in Kenya,&rdquo; said Uhuru.He said there can never be development without investment.