The scramble for the ODM ticket among governors and rivals in Nyanza has begun in earnest as the party nominations draw closer.Nyanza is ODM&rsquo;s stronghold so the person who clinches the ticket is assured of victory.ODM has already released a staggered nominations timetable.Nyanza has six counties. According to the National Elections Board, the primaries will be held in: Siaya (April 5 ), Migori and Nyamira (April 9 ), Kisii (April 11 ), Kisumu (April 13 ) and Homa Bay (April 19 ).The incumbent governors are Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Jack Ranguma (Kisumu), Okoth Obado (Migori), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), James Ongwae (Kisii) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira). Five of the governors were elected on the ODM ticket, while Obado was elected on the PDP ticket. He has, however, defected to ODM.The governors face a huge challenge as some of their rivals seek the party ticket as wellOnly Ongwae does not have a rival within the party.Some of the governors, especially from Luo Nyanza, had requested the party to give them a direct ticket, but they were opposed.&ldquo;The past shambolic nominations have cost this party dearly and any call for direct ticket is like living in the past. Everybody must prepare to compete for the party ticket,&rdquo; national chairman John Mbadi said.The governors later declared they were ready to battle for the party ticket alongside their opponents.Already the county chiefs have hit the ground running. They point out the development projects they have initiated as one reason why they should be reelected.Roads, street lightsIn Homa Bay, Awiti boasts of tarmacking the 33km Kadongo-Gendia road, which he says is 95 per cent complete. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy that Homa Bay is one of the few county governments which have a tarmacked road. This is an open project which everybody can see,&rdquo; he told the Star.Awiti has also installed 650 street and market solar lights. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve employed at least 1,200 ECDE teachers,&rdquo; he said.In Siaya, Rasanga boasts of a Sh119 million referral hospital, 225 ECDE classrooms and 1,110.8kmof feeder roads upgraded by his government. Rasanga will face William Oduol, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and Carey Orege for the ticket.Ranguma says he has introduced bursary programmes. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve made heavy investment in Early Childhood Education and vocational training institutions so as to improve the well-being of the local children,&rdquo; Ranguma said.In Migori, Obado boasts of a Sh80 million scholarship scheme that has helped 600 students.Obado dismissed his rivals Ochillo Ayacko, Mark Nyamita and Ann Anyanga, saying they cannot match him in development.In Nyamira, Nyagarama, who is competing with James Gesami and John Kanunda for the ODM ticket, said he should get a second term because he has upgraded 800km of road.Some 800 ECDE classrooms have been put up besides improved health facilities, he said. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t exchange a servant leader with a boss,&rdquo; Nyagarama told locals.