If elections were held today, Kiambu Governor William Kabogo would retain the county top job, a survey has revealed. The survey conducted by Trends and Insights for Africa indicated Kabogo led other aspirants for the county top seat by 46 per cent, while his rival Ferdinand Waititu got 33 per cent of residents’ support. The survey was conducted between August last year and February this year. It revealed Kabogo was regaining his political support, rising from 22 per cent in August to 46 per cent in February. Waititu’s support base is, however, on the decline from 49 per cent last year to 33 per cent this year. Tifa MD Maggie Ireri said Waititu’s drop could be attributed to a time when he criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development agenda in the county, with many government supporters turning their back on him. The poll results were released on Tuesday. They further indicated 16 per cent of Kiambu residents are yet to decide who will lead them after the August 8 general election. Dr James Nyoro and Eng Gakuru Kanyanja got eight and one per cent respectively. The two contested in 2013 for the seat but were trounced by Kabogo. They came in second and third respectively. The survey also revealed Jubilee is the high-flying party in the region, with 90 per cent support, while NASA, Maendeleo Chap Chap and PNU getting five, one and one per cent respectively. Three per cent of Kiambu residents are yet to decide which party they support. Kabogo is said to have the upper hand in claiming victory for another term due to several projects initiated under his administration. Health care services enhancement in all the 60 wards has been a score for the county chief. Use of technology borrowed from Egypt and Israel to refurbish roads that have been in pathetic state for a long time has improved Kabogo’s support base. A huge section of the youth, women and persons living with disability in the county will vote for Kabogo because of the Biashara Funds that the county chief initiated in 2014. Waititu is seen as Kabogo’s main challenger since he has the support from residents who believe he is a grassroots leader. Kiambu MPs, including Jude Jomo (Kiambu), Alice Ng’ang’a (Thika) and Kimani Ichungw’a (Kikuyu) back his bid. Some five aspirants seeking to unseat Kabogo have formed an alliance and unconfirmed reports indicate they are planning to front Waititu as the governor candidate and Nyoro his running mate. They are Bishop David Ngari, commonly known as Gakuyo, James Nyoro, John Mugwe, Aquiline Gathendu and the Kabete MP. The Tifa survey also revealed that Senator Kimani Wamatangi is the preferred candidate for the Senatorial seat, with 39 per cent, though his support declined from 44 per cent last year. Ngewa MCA Karungo Thangw’a, who’s eyeing the seat held by Wamatangi, trailed him by 13 per cent, while George Nyanja, Stephen Ndichu and Stanley Githunguri held nine, five and three per cent respectively. Ireri said the survey revealed 37 per cent of the respondents are undecided on which candidate to vote for woman representtaive. Some 29 per cent prefer Gathoni Wamuchomba, with the incumbent Anne Nyokabi following second at 24 per cent.