Mwamba RFC have signed Sh3 million shirt sponsorship deal with Stanbic Bank.The deal is part of a partnership that will extend beyond the shirt sponsorship and will see the two parties collaborate in promoting community health and well-being as part of the corporate social investment using rugby as a vehicle to reach out and educate the public.Commenting on the deal, Stanbic Bank, chief executive officer, Phillip Odera, said the only way to sustain the stellar performance of the Kenya Sevens team is by supporting local clubs, who develop the talent. &ldquo;Kenya&rsquo;s Sevens stars keep shining on the global stage. However, we can&rsquo;t continue to performing if we do not take care of grass-roots, where this talent is nurtured&mdash;clubs. They are the hub of the sport and are the centre of focus for grass-roots development,&rdquo; said Odera.Founded in 1977, Mwamba RFC are one of the country&rsquo;s most iconic and well-known native rugby clubs that have been committed to moving the sport forward by providing a breeding ground for future stars. Some of the top Kenya Sevens stars like Collins Injera and Humphrey Kayange, who are both legends in World Rugby Sevens are both products of Mwamba. &ldquo;Mwamba RFC espouse ideals we hold dearly at Stanbic Bank&mdash;commitment and progress. This is the reason why we are here today as Stanbic Bank throws its weight behind the development of such talent by signing a partnership with Mwamba. Our shared focus in moving people forward makes this partnership a perfect fit,&rdquo; Odera said. Mwamba president, Alvas Onguru, welcomed the deal, saying Stanbic Bank coming on board as shirt sponsor will play a big role in strengthening the image and stature of the club. &ldquo;We are proud to associate with Stanbic Bank. This partnership will play a significant role in developing and raising the profile of Mwamba RFC and assisting it in fulfilling its mandate of promoting rugby in Kenya,&rdquo; Onguru said. Former Kenya sevens skipper, Humphrey Kayange, said the club will be boosted by the sponsorship and they are targeting Kenya Cup playoffs. Mwamba are currently ranked seventh with 32 points and with four games coming up against Blak Blad, Nondies, Strathmore Leos and KCB.