The Kenya Revenue Authority yesterday said it will do an audit to establish whether e-taxi service company Uber has been paying all taxes. Commissioner for Domestic Taxes Benson Korongo told a parliamentary committee that the audit will be extended to other taxi operators to know those who have not been remitting taxes. Korongo told the National Assembly Transport committee, chaired by Starehe MP Maina Kamanda, that KRA is not satisfied with Uber’s filed tax returns and it would like the firm to consider the crossborder nature of its businesses. “Issues of taxes being lost are something that you cannot rule out. Uber is one of the taxpayers we have profiled and would like to look into its transactions so we are satisfied that what we collect is the correct amount,” he said. The committee expressed concern over revelations that Uber has only remitted Sh31 million in taxes, “despite collecting billions of shillings” in revenue. The firm remitted Sh7 million being Pay As You Earn for its 20 staff, Sh19 million being Value-Added Tax and Sh5 million as Income Tax. While Uber International is registered in the United States, it conducts its operations in Kenya through its local holding company, Uber Kenya. The mother company takes home 25 per cent of all money collected by more than 4,000 operators in Nairobi and Mombasa, before redirecting part of the revenue to fund its local office. “There are people taking a lot of money out of this country and they have paid only Sh31 million. Is this what KRA has managed to get out of the billions collected by Uber? Does it mean that so long as something is paid by Uber, then we are comfortable?” Kamanda asked. The committee is inquiring into a petition that seeks strict regulations on the operations of e-taxi businesses. “A regulator framework for market players is critical. Licensing of sector players enables close monitoring and could help tax administration in implementation of tax compliance programmes through strategic partnerships and intelligence sharing,” Korongo said. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe questioned why Uber taxis do not have markings similar to those of traditional taxis and called for a level playing field for all taxi operators. Uber recently raised its pricing policy from Sh35 to Sh42 per kilometre to appease its drivers, who have been up in arms over what they call exploitation. 