The Agriculture committee has been hit by Sh60-million bribery allegations in yet another corruption scandal set to rock Parliament. A section of committee members allegedly pocketed Sh600,000 each to influence the Sh62.3 billion controversial Thwake Dam tender, which is at the heart of the Jubilee administration’s campaign strategy for the Ukambani region. The beneficiaries were to sway the award of the lucrative tender to a firm that quoted Sh3 billion more than the lowest bidder. A vocal anti-corruption crusader from Nyanza and an outspoken MP from Central are said to have been the conduits of the bribe and are now openly backing the award of the tender to the highest bidder, in a corruption syndicate that will see taxpayers fork up Sh3 billion more. National Assembly Deputy Majority whip Benjamin Washiali, a committee member, yesterday lifted the lid on the behind-the-scenes manoeuvres, accusing his colleagues of “behaving suspiciously”. He said it was ironic that some members want the tender awarded to the firm. “My brothers, even if they could be innocent, are behaving suspiciously because the matters at hand are obvious,” the Mumias East MP said. Two giant Chinese firms — China Gezhouba Construction Group Corporation and Sino Hydro Tianjin Engineering Co Ltd — have been battling for the tender. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and PS Nduati Mwangi are also at loggerheads over the award of the tender. Wamalwa wants the contract awarded to the lowest bidder — Gezhouba. It submitted a Sh36.9 billion bid for the first phase of the multibillion-shilling dam, but the Ministerial Tender committee, appointed by Mwangi, went ahead to award the contract to Sino Hydro for Sh39.5 billion. The Tender Processing Evaluation committee also recommended that the contract be awarded to Gezhouba, before the PS overruled the process through the MTC. “We can’t leave a decision to be made by the PS and the Ministerial Tender committee, which he set up himself. To me that’s just one person,” Washiali said. The MTC raised the question of debarment of one of Gezhouba’s subsidiaries — Gezhouba Group No 1 Engineering — and the relationship between Gezhouba and China Power and Water Engineering Company to reverse the award of the tender to the lowest bidder. Gezhouba allegedly had integrity issues, having been blacklisted by the World Bank and the African Development Bank. However, documents show that AfDB had granted the ministry a no-objection to the award of the contract. The Attorney General, the project financier — AfDB — and the EACC all advised that Mwangi award the contract to the lowest bidder. “If there’s any kind of malpractice and we are giving this project to a company that does not have expertise and whose integrity is questionable, the first bodies to question would have been the financier, the AG and the government, not the committee,” Washiali said.