Ngari Gituku becomes the latest czar in government with his appointment to head the Government Advertising Agency.He joins a long line of advisers who have served presidents, ministers and the opposition in Kenya over the years.In Kenya, as elsewhere around the world, government czars are crisis management appointees with specific specialist tasks. A study by King&rsquo;s College London at the turn of the century found UK Cabinet ministers had appointed hundreds of czars under the Tony Blair regime who were not bound by any code of practice and some of whose appointments had been &ldquo;idiosyncratic&rdquo;.A British Cabinet Office spokesman told journalists in London that it is entirely appropriate for the government to draw on a wide range of expertise. &ldquo;Successive administrations have chosen to bring in external expertise in various ways to provide an additional resource to ministers in considering difficult and complex issues.&rdquo;Gituku has extensive links in the media, both editorial and commercial, and important contacts in every one of the mainstream multimedia newsrooms and their boardrooms. What&rsquo;s more, he enjoys immense goodwill and cooperation.In many ways, therefore, his latest appointment is a matter of the right man in the right place at the right time. Gituku will rapidly become the ultimate arbiter between media and government, the multimedia amicus.A biographer, contributor to the China Daily newspaper, China Radio International and an active Radio France International commentator, Gituku is also an occasional opinion-editorial writer on a wide variety of politics, including matters literary and cultural.Gituku is no stranger to high-level special assignments for various government departments and key technocrats. He has worked closely with diverse personalities in the political sphere, among them former President Mwai Kibaki and the founding governor of the Central Bank of Kenya, Duncan Ndegwa.Gituku also worked with former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and head of Jubilee Party secretariat Raphael Tuju.In the wake of the PEV in 2008, Gituku headed the National Peace Forum&rsquo;s Print and TV advisory unit. In 2009, he was the National Census&rsquo;s messaging adviser and coined the driving theme &lsquo;Niko Natambulika&rsquo;. Hired by UNDP in 2010, he was the Committee of Experts&rsquo; (CoE) messaging consultant for civic education whose mantra was &ldquo;Jisomee, Jiamulie, Jichagulie&rdquo;.As Communications Director in the Office of Kenya&rsquo;s Third Head of State, Mwai Kibaki, his main task involves protecting and enhancing the Kibaki legacy. In his post-Presidency phase, Kibaki is also Patron of the Millennium Water Alliance &ndash; Kenya (MWA-K), a multi-donor, multi-billion-shilling initiative as well as UNESCO&rsquo;s Special Envoy for Water in Africa. Gituku handles all of Kibaki&rsquo;s PR, publicity and image-building.He has a subtle understanding of government and a thorough grasp of the needs and byways of the media newsrooms and boardrooms.As controller of at least Sh2 billion of government advertising, Gituku will assume a certain preeminence, along the lines &ldquo;He who pays the piper calls the tune&rdquo; &mdash; and he will be much-sought-after.Does he see himself as a JP partisanship enforcer? Is he a propagandist?Gituku, avoiding to confirm his appointment to GAA when asked if he was headed there, says the holder of that job would do good to keep his focus strictly on value for money dynamics and on securing the government the fairest, most transparent, informative and enlightening good press possible. &ldquo;In my opinion, Government does a great deal of good work that goes largely unappreciated, unnoticed and oftentimes unfairly criticized in the face of madly adversarial politics. Surely when something good has been done it&rsquo;s only fair to acknowledge it. The Government deserves much more credit for what it does to improve the quality of life of the citizen&rdquo; Gituku says.And part of his new job will be to ensure that this happens without compromising any aspect of a free press and a thoroughly informed public. Gituku enters the scene at a profoundly disturbing time for the media, following the government&rsquo;s cancellation of all its advertising in the newspapers, radio and TV. Instead, the government is placing its advertising in its own brand-new publication, You.Gov, and inserting it in participating print media. The big circulation Nation Media Group and Standard Media Group have initially rejected You.Gov, arguing, among other things, that it carries content that is outside their editorial control. People Daily and the Star carry You.Gov.However, the entire media sector is deeply concerned that the government&rsquo;s new strategy is a scheme to kill independent media.Gituku has his job cut out for him.