British foreign affairs minister Tobias Ellwood who tried to resuscitate a police officer stabbed to death in the attack on Britain's parliament has been honoured by Queen Elizabeth, the prime minister's office said on Friday. Ellwood and security minister Ben Wallace, who helped coordinate the government's response to Wednesday's attack, were appointed to the Privy Council, which has advised the monarch since the Norman era and is comprised of senior politicians, judges and bishops. Ellwood, a former captain in the British army, received widespread public attention when he was pictured with blood on his face and hands after joining unsuccessful attempts to revive PC Keith Palmer, one of four people killed by Khalid Masood who ploughed a vehicle into pedestrians on a bridge and than ran through the gates of parliament armed with a knife. The attacker was shot dead by armed police officers. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, although it was unclear what links, if any, Masood had with the militant group. The attack was the deadliest in Britain since 2005, when 52 people were killed by Islamist suicide bombers on London's public transport system. Read: UK parliament attacker had been probed over extremism concerns Also read: British police arrest seven in probe into attack on parliament Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia said Masood was not on its radar despite having spent time working there. The Saudi embassy in London said on Friday that he did not have a criminal record or attract the attention of the security services. Masood had been in the kingdom for two one-year periods, from November 2005 and April 2008, when he worked as an English teacher, and also visited briefly in March 2015. "During his time in Saudi Arabia, Khalid Masood did not appear on the security services' radar and does not have a criminal record in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia," the embassy said in a statement on its Twitter account. It said King Salman had spoken to Prime Minister Theresa May to express his condolences over Wednesday's attack, adding: "At such a time, our ongoing security cooperation is most crucial to the defeat of terrorism and the saving of innocent lives."