 On a sunny Tuesday morning in January,  there was an awkward scene outside Milimani law courts. Hundreds of doctors gathered, most in their signature white coats and
neck hugging stethoscopes, not conducting a medical camp though, but endlessly
singing "Bado Mapambano" among many other songs that have become trademark
tunes during public demonstrations. They were members of the Kenya Medical Practitioners
and Dentists Union, and their officials were tucked away somewhere in
the building. The Employment Labour Relations Court was hearing whether
they should be committed to civil jail ostensibly for defying court orders. The police, in those mean-looking green
trucks, waited close by– but somewhat helplessly. Maybe they were waiting for
orders from above, maybe not. Maybe they had finally, I thought, read Articles
36 and 37 of the Constitution allowing for the right to assemble, demonstrate
and picket. And as the doctors started on one of my favourite protest songs – Maovu
yakinja zote tuko tayari – I was tempted to join in. The officials were not
sent to jail, at least not that day. And when they eventually walked out of the
Courthouse to join their chorusing colleagues outside, nothing could raise the
assembly’s tempo higher. Watching, one might have imagined that
freedom of assembly, demonstration and picketing were well respected in Kenya.
Not so. In fact, the previous day (January 30) I had been in this building to
receive a judgment in a case brought by Boniface Mwangi. It is this case I want
to use to explain how public interest litigation has averted the threat by the
State to muzzle these freedoms and that to petition public authorities. The Protest Team Courage, which brings together valiant
young Kenyans, including Boniface Mwangi, decided in December 2015 to organize
a march to State House to protest the spiralling levels of corruption. They did
what the Public Order Act required: delivering a notice to Officer Commanding
Station Kilimani of their plan to march to Gate A at State House to
present to the president or his designate a petition requiring him to act
decisively on corruption. The march was to be on December 9th 2015—international
Anti- Corruption Day. When they presented their petition to the OCS
Kilimani, he declined to take it, instead directing them to the Officer
Commanding Police Division Kilimani — about 20 metres away. OCPD
enthusiastically received the Notice, and inscribed on it “March to State House
Gate A, Not Allowed.” No reason, not a word more. Team Courage sued. In the case, argued by lawyers from Katiba
Institute, Boniface Mwangi argued that the action of the OCPD was contrary to
the constitutional principle on the rule of law. First, under the Public Order
Act, the Officer with powers to act on a notification is the OCS and not OCPD. Since
the right to assemble or demonstrate is granted by the Constitution, all an officer can do is to advise those convening the gathering is that they should
postpone their activity on the basis that another assembly or demonstration would
be taking place at the same venue at the same time. Second, he argued that no
explanation for the refusal to allow Team Courage to hold its assembly and
demonstration. Under the Constitution, public officers must provide reasons
when they make a decision that adversely affects a person. But, critically, he underscored the crucial importance
of the freedom of assembly, demonstration, picketing and presenting petition to
public authorities. He drew the attention of the Court to the fact that
historically, the state had been overzealous to violate these rights as a means
of ensuring that the public did not bring forth complaints of transgressions by
the State. The Attorney General tried to justify that the
action of the OCPD and in the process threw a curve ball — or unexpected
question. He argued that instead of taking the Petition to State House Gate A,
Team Courage should have gone to Harambee House. But Team Courage had justified
its choice of State House, including the fact that President Uhuru Kenyatta generally
transacts his business there — including partisan business — and rarely goes to
Harambee House. He also had held a series of meetings on corruption at State
House.  Judgment of the Court Justice Isaac Lenaola agreed with all the petitioner’s
arguments except on choice of venue. He essentially found that the law gives
the OCS, not  OCPD, powers to receive and
advise on notifications of demonstrations . Hence in receiving the notice and
ostensibly “banning” the assembly and march, the OCPD had acted illegally.
Moreover, the judge found that the OCPD had further violated the Constitution by
failing to provide Team Courage with reasons for acting as he did. Thus the
action of the OCPD in prohibiting the march was invalid. Although Justice Lenaola accepted a critical
principle that the right to assemble and demonstrate includes the right to
choose where to conduct their assembly or protest, he said that, where an
existing law excludes an area from such assembly or demonstration, that may be
a reasonable limitation. In this case, he reasoned that because the Public
Order Act has designated State House as a protected area, demonstrations at
State House were limited by law. In sum, what the judgment does is to
re-anchor the constitutional importance of the freedom of assembly,
demonstration, picket and presenting of petitions. The action by Mwangi was critical in the development of constitutionalism, because it has
become commonplace for police to try and limit the freedom of assembly and
demonstration by pretending that the law gives them the power to grant
permission for such assemblies or demonstrations. Justice Lenaola underscores
the importance of these freedoms by stating that they are “important component
for the true existence of a democratic society.” He goes on to confirm what the
South African Constitutional Court has said about the right of assembly: that it
“exists primarily to give a voice to the powerless” being in most cases, the
“only mechanism available to them to express their legitimate concerns.” So
true, and especially to doctors who had been hollering for days into the waxed
ears of CS Cleopa Mailu and his PS Nicholas Muraguri.  Ending Note We have a government that has a great
propensity for the old dictatorial tendencies. A government that is highly
insensitive and contemptuous of its citizen. In the last four years,
demonstrations against public authorities have become part of Kenyans’ repertoire.
It would seem that, unless citizens engage in civic action, our current
government will not listen to their views. It happened with Okoa Kenya, and it
took their going to the streets to force a recalcitrant and incompetent
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commissioners out of office. Even then,
the court had to intervene to ensure that the State stopped interfering with
Okoa’s right to assemble and demonstrate. And this is just one example of many where
courts have had to intervene to protect these freedoms. Had the courts not been
there, or had judges not exercised judicial courage, Kenya might by now have
fallen back to the days when it was illegal to be in a gathering of more than
five people without a licence. It is an unfortunate truth that the courts
are needed precisely because government disrespects the Constitution and
people. As with other freedoms, courts continue to be the last bastions of
hope. One hopes that the judges continue to realise that the survival of the
2010 Constitution and freedoms guaranteed therein depends largely on their
courage. This decision may not have gone far enough, but it has strengthened
the constitutional anchor of the rule of law and reassured Kenyans of the courts’
commitment to protect the right to assembly, to demonstrate and to petition. The author is Executive Director
of Katiba Institute. 