JUST why is Tiaty MP Asman Kamama (pictured) decamping from Jubilee for Maendeleo Chap Chap? Well, we are informed that the chairman of the powerful National Assembly Security Committee believes he has fallen out of favour with Jubilee and may be denied the party’s ticket. Some of his close associates were arrested over the killing of politicians Pepe Kitambaa (Tiaty MP hopeful) and Kibet Cheretei (Loyamorok MCA), an issue that put Kamama on the spot. Jubilee is said to be backing the Reverend Simon Kiuta (Jubilee) for the ticket in the August 8 polls. A former aide to Raila Odinga is a man keenly being watched. Reason? His giant appetite for money. The man, who only joined the ex-PM after the 2013 polls, is said to have gotten into the habit of fleecing powerful men close to the ODM chief. His close relations with a powerful Nairobi politician are the subject of debate in ODM circles. For instance, just before the NASA rally, the youthful doctor is said to have received a lot of cash from the influential moneyed city politician for “logistics”. Part of the cash was dedicated to publicity. It is whispered that all the money was squandered. Irate ODM youths have vowed to eject the man from Capitol Hill – Raila’s political nerve centre - “Magerer style”. A group of senior party insiders were heard saying they will not allow hangers-on to stand in the way of change. AN MCA in Murang’a county is reported to be on the run after conning a female colleague at the just-concluded Second Legislative Summit in Mombasa. According to our small bird, the talkative MCA, who also chairs a crucial committee, told the unsuspecting lady that he was running short of hard cash and requested help with a Sh70,000 bill for goods he had purchased from exhibitors. She readily helped him. But hardly had they arrived in Murang’a town on Saturday morning than the man vanished into thin air. ETHICS and Anti-Corruption Commission officers are reported to be looking for four senior county administration officials in Bomet county. Reason? A mole at EACC has told Corridors that the four colluded to swindle members of the public whose land was encroached on during the ongoing expansion of the Gorgor-Ndanai road. The administrators listed themselves so as to benefit from compensation, knowing all too well that their land was not affected by the expansion. The officials, who are now in panic mode, are reported to be driving to Nakuru county, where one of them has been transferred, to strategise on how to deal with the matter as they fear the issue might land them in jail.