A few days ago DP William Ruto (pictured) disappeared from the limelight and those not on his political side went gaga over his absence. Now Rosemary Odinga, daughter of opposition leader Raila Odinga is in hospital in South Africa and those on the opposite side of the street are salivating, banging computer keyboards in euphoric celebrations and aiming brickbats at her dad. Who bewitched Kenyans to the extent that they look forward to dancing on their political enemies&rsquo; graves?=== WHO is trying to sabotage services at Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s office? Word has it that the majority of the staff who travel with the DP in his tours across the country are simply broke. Corridors has been told the last time most of them were paid allowances was September last year. The allowances should cater for food and lodging because they have to book rooms in different towns by themselves. The officials affected include drivers, technicians and other staffers. Apparently, they are all quietly grumbling and they believe Ruto does not know of their plight. They are now forced to sleep in cheap lodgings whenever they travel with Ruto and sometimes go without food. They usually travel a day earlier, and leave a day after the DP has left. === JUST who is behind the amassing of very large pieces of land in Rift Valley? Word has it that some individuals with connections in government are taking over vast tracts of land in the region, forcing herders to invade private ranches. It is said a senior Jubilee politician in Rift Valley is among the very biggest grabbers and has allocated himself more than 1,000 acres in recent days. Corridors is wondering why the National Lands Commission is yet to take note and act before the thorny Land Question escalates.=== CORRIDORS has been told that a top Jubilee leader may be using the forthcoming nominations to make a killing, especially from governors. A case in point is the rivalry between elders&rsquo; who back &lsquo;negotiated democracy&rsquo; line-ups in Northeastern and that of the sitting county chiefs. Sources whisper to Corridors that that one of the leaders from the region has protested that money has changed hands - to the tune of Sh50 million. The cartel is said to be targetting incumbents in Tana River, Garissa, Wajir and Marsabit. === THAT the JP headquarters is in an unholy mess is no secret. What is worrying is the rate at which politicians storming the HQ at Pangani Junction to demand all manner of things. Yesterday, Murang&rsquo;a Governor Mwangi Wairia (he of 110 tones of manure fame), in a convoy of 20 cars, stormed the place and demanded that anyone who works for the party and is associated in any way whatsoever with his rival Jamleck Kamau be removed.