Coast leaders have hailed Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho upon his return from the US on Sunday.Joho was greeted to a packed reception by hundreds of ODM-clad supporters at Moi International Airport.The procession moved to Akamba Handicrafts, Changamwe constituency where Joho put off fires over a possible ODM nomination fiasco. The county boss quelled tension between supporters of incumbent MP Omar Mwinyi and rival Ali Goshi. Read: MP Mwinyi has failed Changamwe residents, says hopeful During ODM leader Raila Odinga's visit last month, his speech was disrupted when the two groups clashed. Mwinyi supporters have complained that Goshi will be favoured in the primary. While Goshi is considered to be Joho's blue-eyed boy, the Governor assured that the primaries would be free and fair. On Chirau Mwakwere's move to Wiper from ODM, Joho said , "Meeting Raila is not a guarantee that one will have an ODM ticket."He said they will stick together in Nasa, and announced that the outfit intends to hold a big rally in Mombasa on March 27.The Governor's US trip is seen as a major boost to his leadership in the county and his reputation in political circles."Joho not a drug baron. He entered the lion's den and came out unscathed," Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said.Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said the 'drug propaganda' has been raised too many times."Joho will be the first president from Coast come 2022. I hope the drug propaganda won't be peddled (then)," he said.Read: Ruto accuses Joho of buying academic papers, doing 'that' business[VIDEO] Agitated Joho scolds Uhuru, Ruto on drug dealing, says war now politicalWoman rep Mishi Mboko said Joho deserves another term for initiating development projects in the county.In the US, Joho attended series of meetings of the Strong Cities Network in Washington DC.Joho met Kareem Shora - section chief, office of the secretary, US Department of Homeland Security.He also met Russell T Porter - USAid senior coordinator for the secretariat for countering violent extremism.The governor missed the crucial signing of Nasa pact.During his absence, Deputy President William Ruto rocked the Coast.His gubernatorial opponents Hezron Awiti (Nyali) and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar hammered him.Omar said Joho's driven sentiments that Mombasa should go for a joint nomination under Nasa is myopic. In his address when he landed, the ODM deputy head steered clear joint nomination debate.Awiti said drug menace is still a threat and hundreds risk losing lives.Analysts said Joho's trip to US was meant to exonerate him from drug related charges.US is yet to clear Joho's family on such allegations. The Drug Enforcement Agency are reported to be looking afresh at the files of Kenyan big names, including Joho's and his family who were cited in an American Embassy report made public six years ago.