Africa 10,000m bronze medallist Joyciline Jepkosgei will be taking a shot at the world half marathon record when she lines up at the Prague Half Marathon on Saturday. Jepkosgei is seeking to lower the mark at the presence of current holder, compatriot Peris Jepchirchir, who is also the world half marathon champion. Jepchirchir set the new world mark of 65.06 minutes at the Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon last month, slashing three seconds off Florence Kiplagat’s previous record. Jepkosgei who finished third in a new personal best time of 66.08 minutes smashing her personal best by almost three minutes. The athlete, who is under the special project - Adidas Run Czech Racing, is now bracing up for the onslaught. “I am going to Prague to attempt the world record if all the conditions will be favourable. Weather, especially, is the most important factor and if it will be good, I will try a record there,” Jepkosgei who trains in Iten said. She is only 1.02 minutes away from the world mark and with the proper training she has undertaken, Jepkosgei is no doubt a front runner in the race. “My training has been well and my target is that special time improvement in the race. It will be a tough competition but I will do my best,” she added. She will be facing the reigning champion Violah Jepchumba who holds the course record at 65.51 as well as the world 10km leader. Former world youth 3000m champion Gladys Chesir is also on the ring. Jepkosgei will be making her first appearance in the race although she was a second place finisher at the Birell Prague Grand Prix 10km with a personal record of 31:08, beaten only by Violah Jepchumba, who missed the world record by just three seconds in 30:24 minutes. She made her international debut at the 2016 Mattoni Karlovy Vary Half Marathon before heading to the IAAF African Championships where she got a bronze medal in 10,000m. She placed second to Chepchirchir at the Family Bank half marathon last year and went on to win the Marseille-Cassis half marathon. She returned home last year for a victory at the Ziwa Farmers 10km Run. Born in Nandi County and coached by her husband Nicholas Koech, Jepkosgei has only been on the international stage for less than two years and her star is shining in each competition.