Public university lecturers will hold nationwide demonstrations tomorrow to protest against what they term as frustration by the SRC as they pursue the implementation of the 2013-17 CBA.The lecturers had suspended the demonstrations last week to give time for discussions between union leaders and the government.But the Universities Academic Staff Union said the government has failed to address lecturers&rsquo; concerns.&ldquo;UASU has held high-level consultations, both on and off the record, including with senators, CSs, PSs and key parliamentary personalities. A lot has been promised but very little has been put on paper. We, therefore, have to stage nationwide mass demonstrations,&rdquo; the union said.The strike, which enters its 44th day today, has paralysed university operations, with some closing their institutions indefinitely.UASU secretary general Constantine Wesonga yesterday accused university administrators of frustrating lecturers&rsquo; efforts to have their CBA implemented.&ldquo;Some vice chancellors have withdrawn the salaries of dons and have opted to starve us into servitude. This is unconstitutional. But in the midst of all this, we stand in solidarity to secure dignified working conditions and safeguard the quality of university education. Let no don be arm-twisted by the management,&rdquo; he said.Wesonga said the government is unwilling to address the lecturers&rsquo; grievances, despite many consultative meetings. He also faulted the Education ministry for being &ldquo;aloof&rdquo;.&ldquo;In public, the Education CS blames the Inter-Public Universities Councils Consultative Forum and the SRC for the stalemate. Privately, these bodies receive marching orders from Treasury and Ministry of Education,&rdquo; Wesonga said.He said the union has not received any response from the IPUCCF on formal negotiations. The union leaders have also pointed an accusing finger at the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, terming its evaluation faulty, adding that it failed to address the main points of contention. &ldquo;The SRC continues to insult dons by using a tool best-suited to evaluate factory workers,&rdquo; Wesonga said.