SportPesa All Stars coach Stanley Okumbi believes his boys did their best under the circumstances but failed to capitalise on the many chances that came their way.&ldquo;Losing 1-2 to a youthful Hull City Select team is not a bad result,&rdquo; said Okumbi, adding: &ldquo;We created several chances but failed to convert them into goals.&rdquo; &ldquo;We believe this is a good start to being part and parcel of this momentous partnership and a platform through which our players will showcase Kenyan talent,&rdquo; quipped Okumbi.The All Stars tactician, who is also Harambee Stars coach, said the own goal which Harun Shakava gifted the hosts proved quite costly at the end.&ldquo;We had absolutely no clue what stuff our adversaries were made of and we really tried to study their game in the first 15 minutes before making our next move,&rdquo; said Okumbi. The tactician admitted that some good players, who he declined to name, may have been left out in the selection process conducted by the Hull coaches.&ldquo;I want to thank the Hull City selectors for their judgement while making the selection but I think we may have left our some good players,&rdquo; said Okumbi. Veterans Osborne Monday, Allan Wanga, Humphrey Mieno and Moses Odhiambo lived to expectations with youngsters in the team struggling all the way. Odhiambo was introduced in the second half and won the hearts Kenyan fans when he changed the tide of the encounter much to the chagrin of their opponents.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a shame most of our youngsters failed to live up to their expectations but all in all it was quite a good experience sampling EPL facilities,&rdquo; said a player, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Elliott Holmes, aged just 16, opened the scoring for City with a firm header before an unfortunate own goal doubled the home team&rsquo;s lead. Stars goal was scored by Humphrey Mieno. All Stars tried to push for an equaliser but the heroics of goalkeeper Charlie Andrew, who only turned 17 last month, secured City&rsquo;s slender victory.Meanwhile, Osborne Monday is elated to have been voted &lsquo;Man of the Match&rsquo;. &ldquo;It was good to have a mix of veterans and young budding players. Being named the &lsquo;Man of the Match&rsquo; was quite a good feeling considering we played really well as a unit. We believe more of these matches will help our players change their way of playing and adapt to the professional facet,&rdquo; said Monday.Captain Allan Wanga said: &ldquo;We made two costly mistakes and lost to the hosts. But the match is an eye opener to locals as most of the players had never played in Europe. We will pick up from where we left and see how good we can improve on our mistakes,&rdquo; said Wanga.Mark Makwata was one of the youngsters who impressed. Makwata, who was among the winners of the &lsquo;SJAK Player of the Month&rsquo; award last season, gave the Tigers&rsquo; defence a really hard time.Present during the match was Tourism CS Najib Balala and Kenyan Ambassador to the UK Amayo. &ldquo;We are known for our long and middle distance athletes and also our rugby Sevens stars. It&rsquo;s good to see Kenyans trying to horn their skills against the Premier league sides. The partnership promotes the country as a tourist destination,&rdquo; said Ambassador Amayo.Balala on his part thanked the Hull City Tigers for according Kenyan players a once in a lifetime opportunity. &ldquo;Our historic partnership with Hull is crucial in promoting Kenya as a tourist destination and that is why we decided to partner with SportPesa to ensure we take it to the next level. Through such partnerships, we create enabling environment for our young sportsmen to realize their dreams,&rdquo; said Balala.