POLITICS is the game of making the impossible possible. Well, a sitting MP from Kisii who has been flip-flopping of late as to which party he will use at the August 8 polls is a man under siege. The vocal MP, who decamped from ODM to Jubilee and later reunited with the Orange party after a few weeks, is not sure whether he will get the party ticket in the primaries. This is because top party leadership is said to be favouring his youthful opponent who is in good books with the party leader. The lawmaker, who has been restless of late trying to shop for his political vehicle ahead of the polls, is said to be headed back to President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s (pictured) Jubilee Party to ensure he is reelected.A former CEO of a parastatal in the Ministry of Water who is eying a parliamentary seat is said to have quit the institution with a government car. According to informers, the man, who has several court cases, has been using the 4-by-4 Toyota Prado on his campaigns. It is said the man ordered his former official driver to get private number plates that are at times fixed on the car when the Cabinet Secretary of the parent ministry uses it. Detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission are now trailing the man and his proverbial 40th day could be any time now.A week after the Senate resumed sittings from recess, up to six senators are yet to set foot in the House. The lacklustre approach in which the senators are now handling the issues of the House could be related to the campaigns that have started in earnest across the country. Yesterday, most of the senators were not in the House, forcing the temporary speaker and Migori Senator Wilfred Machage to re-order the Order Paper. Some questions could not be responded to because either the questioners or chairmen of committees were not in the House.ARE Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s lieutenants genuine in their threats that they will walkout of NASA if the former vice president is not the flagbearer? A little bird whispers to Corridors that the Wiper Democratic Movement could just be upping up its stakes in the alliance. According to the bird, Wiper has demanded that there should a pre-election agreement on how NASA will share ministries and key government parastatals, a position ODM is said to be opposed to.