NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday reassured Kenyans he is fully recovered from food poisoning and ready to it the road again . We thank God for that Your prayers worked, the 72-year-old former Prime Minister said in a statement to newsrooms.The NASA leader, considering a run for State House, said, It was a case of food poisoning, which is not the same thing as being poisoned. I know many Kenyans encounter this problem from time to time. It can cause quite a scare and indeed it did to me. Raila fell ill on Tuesday night, was rushed to Karen Hospital and was discharged on Wednesday.The ODM chief thanked Karen Hospital. I sincerely thank all Kenyans for prayers, messages of solidarity, sympathy, love and support, he said.He added, My thoughts and prayers now are with many individuals and families also struggling with ailments in different locations across our country. Raila was rushed to Karen Hospital by Ford Kenya Leader Moses Wetang ula after he suddenly developed high fever and chills lat on Tuesday evening.Doctors and Raila s spokesman later said it was only food poisoning.Expert comment: Preventing food poisoning and how to treat it when it strikesRaila had joined Wetang ula and Musalia Mudavadi at the Karen Country Club to meet Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and his Chama Cha Mashinani officials.They did not order food and it was not known what Raila had eaten earlier in the day or the day before.Multiple sources told the Star yesterday that minutes after the meeting started, the former Prime Minister began shivering. Wetang ula, who was seated next to him, immediately noticed something was wrong. He then stood up and untied Raila s necktie as the bodyguards were called in, a witness to the incident said. After a few minutes Raila complained that he was experiencing a lot of discomfort generally as he continued to shiver. When Wetang ula touched Raila s hand it was very hot, yet he was shivering. He then decided to drive him to Karen Hospital where he was admitted immediately because he was looking very dehydrated. Raila had been vomiting and had a running stomach.He was admitted to the exclusive Malindi ward where doctors brought down his fever and ordered a series of tests. He spent the night at the facility.At the Karen Country Club the meeting with Ruto and his team was postponed as Mudavadi followed Wetang ula and Raila to the hospital.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka arrived after Wetang ula and Raila had left the Club and found Mudavadi who was waiting to get into his car. Mudavadi briefed Kalonzo and the two quickly drove to Karen Hospital where they found Raila being attended to.He stayed there overnight and was discharged on Wednesday afternoon when his condition improved.According to his official spokesman Dennis Onyango, Raila suffered a bout of food poisoning.Earlier on Tuesday, Raila and all NASA principals, had met religious leaders at the Nairobi Club. He then met his ODM Deputy Ali Hassan Joho and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed.He then went back to his office at Capitol Hill.On arriving at the office, the former Prime Minister was complaining of a stomach ache and decided to take some medicine with the hope that he would feel better.From his office, Raila proceeded straight to Karen in the evening.On Monday, he had attended the burial of former Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua in Mathira constituency. He shared the podium with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his predecessor Mwai Kibaki. There was no stressful confrontation. He drank water but did not eat anything at the function.While in Nigeria, Raila attended the grand opening of the first presidential library in Africa, the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, in Abeokuta, Ogun state.Yesterday family sources said Raila was recovering well and was expected to head to South Africa to see his daughter Rosemary.In 2010, the former Langata MP had surgery at Nairobi Hospital to remove fluid on the brain. He was Prime Minister at the time.The Karen meeting was meant to agree on how to receive Isaac Ruto and his Chama Cha Mashinani into NASA.Yesterday Rutto confirmed that he was in Karen for the meeting but would not confirm or deny that the purpose of the meeting was to discuss his entry into NASA. I cannot confirm or deny, Rutto said.The governor hosted the first National Super Alliance rally in Bomet on February 4.During that event, Rutto held back on announcing his decision on NASA because, according to various sources, his team had not agreed on the modalities of joining the Super Alliance. His heart has been with NASA but his body was elsewhere. Now he has decided to join NASA fully, said a source familiar with the decision.Rutto will officially be received later this month at a high-profile function.Once he joins, the Bomet governor will be given a seat in the NASA summit and will sign a pre-election coalition agreement with NASA.According to political analyst Professor Macharia Munene, the entry of Rutto into NASA will strengthen the opposition and complicate strategy for Jubilee. Isaac has created his own profile and commands some support in Rift Valley, valley so you can rest assured that there are people who will go with him to NASA and that will be a problem for Jubilee, Macharia said.In 2013, Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto crossed the 50 percent-plus-one mark by only 4,100 votes.Uhuru won only 6,173,433 votes, against Raila s 5,340,546. Raila claims the election was stolen.Mudavadi came third with 483,981 votes.The expected entry of Rutto into the alliance would eat into Jubilee s Rift Valley vote bloc.Jubilee leaders led by DP Ruto have been rubbishing the opposition as confused, divided and unable to win..Rutto plans to run for president in 2022. At the moment Raila, Mudavadi, Wetang ula and Kalonzo are are discussing who among them is best.Nominated Senator Martha Wangari said Isaac Rutto s decision will not affect Jubilee because Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso was strong enough to defeat the governor and his allies. It is no loss for Jubilee. He was already out anyway, Wangari said.