On Wednesday, we celebrated the International Women&rsquo;s Day under the theme #BeBoldForChange. It was a call on the masses to help forge a better working world &mdash; a more gender inclusive world: To help forge gender parity. But the World Economic Forum predicts the gender gap won&rsquo;t close entirely until 2186. This is too long to wait. But to close this gap, we need women in leadership. But why do we have this gap in leadership so start with? The core assumptions of realism &mdash; anarchy and sovereignty &mdash; reflect the ways in which males tend to interact and see the world. That possibly obtains the reason why majority of Presidents, diplomats and soldiers are men and maybe why the &ldquo;Realist Approach&rdquo; simply assumes male participants when discussing Foreign Policy decisions, state sovereignty and use of military force.Putting this gender issue into perspective, the question is, where is the space of women in the society leadership? Are they just the &ldquo;others&rdquo; or they do have a place in leadership? In 2005, a survey by Foreign Policy Magazine listed the 25 most influential International Relations scholars: All were men. Also, leaders of the G8 for a long time were all men until 2005 when Angela Merkel was elected leader of. Coming down to the regional level, Africa only boosts of one female President, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia. Between April 2012 and May 2014, Malawi had Joyce Banda. She took office as President following the sudden death of President Bingu wa Mutharika. In Kenya, we don&rsquo;t have a single woman as governor. What limits women from taking leadership positions. Gender roles, based on the broader perspective or construction of masculinity, are seen as suitable to political spaces whereas femininity is associated with the sphere of private and domestic. To me is not right. It is just another way of saying women belong to the kitchen. Assumptions that men fight wars and run states for me as much as is true, yes it is, is not to say that females are irrelevant in leadership. They have their role to play. For example, because of their greater experience in nurturing and human relations, women are on average seen as potentially more effective than men in conflict resolution and group decision-making. Education and information is key to facilitate women inclusion in leadership and development, access to wealth and decision-making.It is also imperative that successful women get back to their backgrounds and take others with them. I am sure their input is needed in this country. Empowering women involves making men understand the benefits of women empowerment This calls for policymakers to collaborate . We should give women their space and resources to work. With that we really don&rsquo;t need affirmative action and girl child activism.