Education is the process of facilitating learning by acquiring knowledge, skills and values. Public education in Kenya is based on the 8&ndash;4&ndash;4 system. It entails eight years of primary education, four in secondary school and four more in college or university.The levels of education and training of a country's workforce is a big factor that determines how well its economy does. A country's economy is more productive when the proportion of its educated workers is high. This is because the more educated the workers are, the more efficient they are, especially in tasks that need literacy and critical thinking.Almost needless to say, obtaining higher level of education also comes with a cost. Countries do not necessarily have to provide extensive network of colleges or universities to benefit from education. They can still provide basic literacy programmes and benefit from good economic improvements.Countries that have higher portions of their populace attending and graduating from schools&rsquo; experience better and faster economic growth than those with less-educated labour. Due to this, many countries now provide free funds for primary and secondary education, with the aim of improving economic performance. With this regard, education is an investment in human capital, similar to investment in better equipment.For businesses, employees&rsquo; intellectual performance can be treated as an asset which can be used to create and improve products and services, which can then be of great value to the respective companies. The more well-trained workers employed by a firm, the more the better its output is.Some years back, formal education was not a necessary requirement for one to be elected into office in this country. This was the case for our forefathers of our nation, because it was impractical to require leaders to have degrees at a period where very few people had access to education. However, in the present Kenya, there should be a paradigm shift and require leaders to have a certain level of education because, as aforementioned, those who are educated are better at what they do. They have better judgement.Higher education levels demonstrate that the odds that a politician will use his/her political power opportunistically are reduced and this is recognised as such by voters. The government has introduced many policies to reduce illiteracy in our country. If a leader is illiterate, then there is no use to make the citizens literate. A corruption-free nation will only be made by leaders who are well educated.In most cases, a well-educated individual armed with a university or college degree has something beneficial to offer to the people. Such a leader will know that he/she has a &ldquo;Plan B&rdquo; to fall back to in case the political career does not work out. That in itself enables the said leader to approach his/her political career in a calm state of mind and have impartial judgement and lead with the interest of greater good.As a cost engineer and having a solid education foundation, I will be able to ensure all funds allocated to the county government of Nakuru are not misused through corruption and other malpractices. In many cases when funds are misused or stolen, it is during the implementation of development projects as they tend to involve huge amounts of cash. As a proficient expert in this field, I will be able to assess, professionally, the costs of the projects and ensure that all the is spent well, and the people of Nakuru get value for their money as the infrastructure of the county improves astonishingly.The writer is a cost engineer and Nakuru senator aspirant