Last week, an editorial cartoon listed purported scandals in Kenya and included the deal to purchase military planes from the US.This is a classic example of how facts can be distorted to serve ulterior motives.Business rivalry, and nothing else, is behind the question of whether Kenya should buy air tractors from the company it had been in negotiations with.For those that have not followed the story keenly, here is a brief summary.Kenya approaches Air Tractor, a company based in the US state of Texas, and negotiates to buy 12 planes, also known as air tractors, like the company, for Sh40 billion.But similar planes are also manufactured by a rival company, IOMAX, which is based in the state of North Carolina. Congressman Ted Budd, who represents North Carolina&rsquo;s 13th Congressional District, wants the contract to go to the company from his backyard.He demands that Kenya&rsquo;s negotiated deal with the Texas company be cancelled and the contract be awarded to his home state company. Budd threatens that if that does not happen, he will bring a motion to Congress to discuss the deal. He wants the US government to stop the sale pending a Government Accountability Office audit and oversight investigation into the deal.Kenyan MPs now plan to travel to the US to investigate if there was any wrongdoing in the deal.Kenyans are quick to rush to conclusions, and create a scandal where none exists.The air tractors have an advantage over the jets the Kenya Defence Forces currently uses on its war on al Shabaab in Somalia. They are slower, and, therefore, able to deliver weapons more accurately. It is an investment that security analysts believe will be a game changer in the war.Kenyan soldiers have been in Somalia since October 2011. Kenya has contributed more than 3,600 troops to the African Union-backed operation.There have been many successes and some setbacks. The clearest indicator that things are getting better in Somalia was the recent election of a new President, whose inauguration was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta.Markets that were under the control of al Shabaab have been reopened, beaches along the Indian Ocean are now used by fun-seeking residents and the economy is growing.This has not been without a steep price. Hundreds of Kenyan soldiers, alongside those from other countries contributing soldiers such as Uganda, Ethiopia and Burundi, have been killed. The raids on El Adde and, more recently Kulbiyow, have seen Kenyan families bury their dead, and many left without their breadwinner.While Kenyans should begin having a conversation on how long our soldiers should remain in Somalia, the boots that are on the ground today need all the support they can receive.The air tractors, purpose built to serve a strategic military purpose, are part of the plan to boost this support for the soldiers. They are primarily agricultural-oriented, but have been repurposed to make them combat-ready for complex military duties.The US Department of State okayed the deal with Kenya.IOMAX, the rival company, has greater experience selling air tractors to countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Egypt, and can therefore rightly claim to be the market leaders.But it cannot wrest the Kenyan contract from its competitor by force, which appears to be the plan.Kenyan MPs should proceed with their planned investigation to clear the air, before wananchi rush to shout &lsquo;scandal!&rsquo;Activists like John Githongo have already rushed to declare that the deal &ldquo;fails the smell test&rdquo;, even without taking the time to gather any useful evidence to allow for an informed conclusion. He was speaking in Washington DC, where he was hosted by none other than Budd, the congressman from North Carolina. Kenyans are smart and will see through the smokescreens.