Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka is uncharacteristically playing political hardball with his NASA partners. When did he experience this epiphany? Keen political observers believe ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi’s entry into the scene gave Kalonzo leverage. He is now using NASA as a fulcrum to shift the political landscape. Wiper, through National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze, has laid claim to Kalonzo being the NASA presidential flagbearer. They have stated it is their right under an MoU signed with Raila Odinga in 2013 and they will settle for nothing less. This bold claim has left his partners in a quandary. Often misunderstood and dismissed as Kenya’s quintessential political opportunist, Kalonzo reads political developments well and always leaves his options open. His choices include joining Jubilee if he is denied the NASA ticket or running solo on Wiper. Both sides of the political divide, however, know that Kalonzo’s Lower Eastern vote bloc will determine the presidential election. If Jubilee has it they will undoubtedly sail to victory, if NASA loses it their goose is cooked. Kalonzo’s bravado may be driven by the fact that Jubilee and NASA appear to be running almost neck and neck, creating a gap for a kingmaker as in the 2007 presidential election. Kalonzo is no political neophyte! He is the longest-serving parliamentarian amongst all candidates seeking the presidency, having been elected in a by-election in 1985. He was followed by Mudavadi in 1989, Raila 1992, Moses Wetang’ula nominated in 1993 and Uhuru Kenyatta nominated in 2001. Kalonzo has served as Education, Foreign Affairs, Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources minister, eventually becoming Kenya’s 10th Vice President. He was faithful to President Daniel Moi until the 2002 fallout over the nomination of Uhuru as the Kanu presidential candidate, when he bolted to Narc. His sojourn there was shortlived, as he, together with others, was fired by President Kibaki, leading to the formation of ODM-Kenya. Another fallout resulted in him leaving ODM-K and joining Kibaki in 2007-08. He is strongly of the opinion that the Kalenjin and Kikuyu nations owe him a political debt. First for his long unconditional loyalty to Moi and the other on account of propping up Kibaki during his darkest hour (although he betrayed him in the succession without batting an eyelid). Whether this is a misplaced sense of entitlement or fact remains open to conjecture. Kalonzo is alive to the fact that Raila will probably retire after this year’s election. To his credit, he has stood by Raila longer than any other politician outside of Nyanza. The Luo Nyanza vote bloc has been in the opposition since 1966 and there is no indication that is about to change. Kalonzo hopes to pip Mudavadi in clinching this vote for 2022. Kalonzo’s strategy is multifaceted. If he secures the NASA ticket he will go full blast for the presidency in the hope of an outright win. If he fails he may join Jubilee or run on the Wiper ticket with a view to forming a post-poll coalition, depending on which serves his interests best. Thereafter he can sit out the five years in whatever position is proffered him in the hope of cashing in on his 2022 cheque, ostensibly owed to him by the Kikuyu, Luo and Kalenjin. It may appear like a long shot, but he is well on his way to passing in between two political protagonists.