The Kiambu government has connected 41 health facilities with free internet to improve services and soon resident users will need smart cards.They include one level 5 hospital, 14 level 4 hospitals and 26 health centres.Governor William Kabogo on Monday said all hospitals will have cashless payment systems and residents will be required to have smart cards.&ldquo;Seventy per cent of the people treated in our hospitals come from neighbouring counties. Very soon we are going into cashless payments and everyone will require a smart card and be registered as a Kiambu resident,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;If you are not registered as a resident in our hospitals, you will have to pay a fee almost equal to what you would pay at the Aga Khan Hospital. This will ensure other counties take care of their patients.&rdquo;Kabogo spoke during the launch of free Wi-Fi at Kiambu Level 4 Hospital. The internet was installed by Liquid Telecom Kenya.He said the county government spends Sh33 million every month on drugs. Kabogo said the neighbouring counties &ndash; Nairobi and Machakos &ndash; should sort out their hospitals and put in place good facilities for their residents.The governor said county health officers are on notice since the Wi-Fi will help him monitor if they are offering services. &ldquo;We get many calls from the patients telling us they are suffering here and there, as this or that is not happening. Now it will be easy for them as I want my number to be put on the hospitals&rsquo; walls, where anybody can report using it,&rdquo; he said. Liquid Telecom chief executive officer Ben Roberts said they have entered into a three-year partnership with the Kiambu government.He said they have also installed free internet service at Ruiru and Kikuyu bus parks. &ldquo;Through the fiber optic cables within the county, we have been able to instal the free Wi-Fi, which is really fast. We are looking forward to installing all major towns with free Wi-Fi,&rdquo; Roberts said. ICT executive Esther Ndirangu said the county government is committed to making all departments ICT compliant. She said ICT services will be extended to all 12 subcounties.Health executive Jonah Mwangi said the internet connectivity is in level 4 and 3 hospitals.He said they want to connect all hospitals, including dispensaries and health centres, to internet. In November last year, the Kiambu government launched free Wi-Fi for residents. Kabogo said the internet connectivity hotspots would first be implemented in Kiambu, Thika, Juja and Kikuyu as pilot projects. He also said they will open up ICT canteens for revenue collection.The governor said though there will be free internet services from the county government, residents would be paying rates, fees and charges and will digitise approvals for buildings rather than queuing at the county headquarters to make payments.The ICT executive also said the internet connectivity will create jobs for the youth. &ldquo;Kiambu county has been rated the best in ICT and we felt the need to do more and enter into an MoU with liquid Telecom company to offer free Internet to residents,&rdquo; Ndirangu said.Kabogo said the county government would also contract services of the Kenya Revenue Authority to collect taxes.&ldquo;Partnership with KRA will give Kiambu residents confidence that money collected will not be going in peoples pockets,&rdquo; he said