When a spiritual mortal being looks into your soul, just through a mere stare, that is an experience that never leaves you for a lifetime. I was fortunate enough to undergo this experience, when I had the honour to photograph His Holiness Mahant Swami Maharaj. The spiritual successor of Pramukh Swami Maharaj, the leader of the BAPS (Boc&#257;sanv&#257;s&#299; Akshar Purushottam Sansth&#257;).His Holiness Mahant Swami Maharaj was born to Dahiben and Manibhai Narayanbhai Patel on September 13, 1933, in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, India. A few days later, Brahmaswarup Shastriji Maharaj, the founder of BAPS, visited Jabalpur, blessed the newborn child and named him Keshav. Shastriji Maharaj revealed to Manibhai, &ldquo;Your child will grow up to serve Satsang (community) in a big way.&rdquo;He went on to become a saint at the age of 24. He grew and prospered in his life as a saint, and soon became extremely close to HH Pramukh Swami Maharaj. He has relentlessly travelled throughout India and abroad to inspire and strengthen the establishment in countless devotees.DECLARED SIXTH GURUOn July 20, 2012, in the presence of senior saints in Ahmedabad, Pramukh Swami Maharaj revealed Mahant Swami as his spiritual successor. Following the earthly departure of Pramukh Swami Maharaj on August 13, 2016, Mahant Swami Maharaj was declared the sixth guru (teacher) in the Gunatit Parampara (the noblest saints the world will ever see) tradition of Lord Swaminarayan.Kenya and the BAPS community were extremely lucky to have been visited by a teacher and guru of his stature. It is almost a decade since a leader has blessed the community with his footsteps in the vicinity. HH Mahant Swami Maharaj was warmly welcomed with huge celebrations and colour on Friday, March 17. He was welcomed by one of the best marching bands in the country, the BAPS Nairobi Marching Band. Breath-taking decorations were spread across the temple. It was the right beginning to a six-day festival.On Saturday, the community organised a grand welcome ceremony in honour of HH Mahant Swami Maharaja and his visit. More than 3,000 people attended and witnessed several awe-inspiring performances to welcome the spiritual leader.Sunday was marked by the grand celebration of Holi with the divine words of HH Mahant Swami. Holi is the festival of colours. However, divinity is present in the soft petal of flowers, and so, instead of wasting water and powdered colour, this celebration was marked by showering flower petals on one another and rejoicing in unity.Celebrating innocence and young smiles, Monday was dedicated to children, with the presence of HH Mahant Swami Mahraj. Young adults portrayed the importance of good values and a righteous belief system. This emphasised the significance of a well-grounded childhood to a prosperous future.MEETING WITH UHURUTuesday was a very important day in the entire visit. HH Mahant Swami Maharaj visited the house of the President in the morning hours. President Uhuru Kenyatta and HH Mahant Swami Maharaj exchanged banter based on the importance of spirituality and the well-being of Kenya.After the fruitful meeting with the President, the evening function was a highly official event. Present were Nairobi Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke, Urban executive Christopher Khaemba and Roads executive Mohamed Abdullahi. The focal point of the evening was a gesture of honour and appreciation from the government. Masari Road was renamed to Pramukh Swami Avenue. Alongside this, the BAPS Charities Organisation provided infra-structural assistance and refurbishment to a school in Northern Kenya. All of these were unveiled by HH Mahant Swami Maharaj.PRAYER FOR RAINSOn Wednesday, HH Mahant Swami Maharaj gave his concluding words of blessing, thanking the community for the warm welcome and celebration. Alongside this, His Holiness prayed for the benefit of Kenya and her people, and for rains to bless the nation. Some of his words included: &ldquo;May there be peace and prosperity, and may all Kenyans grow together for a better Kenya.&rdquo; An important message from a world spiritual leader as we are gearing up for the elections this year.