Nasa co-principal Raila Odinga has demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta respect all elected leaders if he is to be accorded the same.Raila on Friday criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for transferring his anger to Mombasa and Turkana governors.Uhuru told Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to stop following him around as if he were his wife and termed Turkana's Josephat Nanok a foolish devil.Joho and Nanok have raised concerns on development and financial allocations by the national government.More on this: [AUDIO] Stop following me like I'm your wife, Uhuru tells Joho at Mtongwe ferry launchAlso see: [AUDIO] Uhuru calls Nanok a foolish devil for raising queries on oil wealthDuring a charged rally at Muliro grounds in Mathare, Nairobi, Raila told off the President saying counties must monitor the government."Mwezi huu Uhuru amefanya maovu mengi zaidi. Anaenda Mombasa kule anasema asifuatwefuatwe. Huwezi mkataza governor akuje pale...county ni yake...je huo ni ungwana?" he posed."Akisema joho anafuatana na yeye...Joho ndio governonr number 001 Mombasa."(Uhuru has done many evils this month. He went to Mombasa and said he should not be followed around. You cannot tell a governor where not to go...the county is his...Is this fair?)The Opposition leader noted that the constitution was clear on the differences between the two levels of government."They are distinct but they must cooperate. Governor anachaguliwa na wananchi [kwa hivyo] kama Uhuru anakuja katika county kuzindua mradi yoyote it is a county government responsibility," he said.This translates to: "Governors are elected by the people so whatever Uhuru launches is the county's responsibility."Regarding the President's utterances against Nanok, Raila said the name-calling was unnecessary."Alienda Turkana. Nanok akamueleza ukweli halafu akamuita Shetani! Shetani ni nani? he asked. (Nanok told him the truth but he called him the devil. Who is the devil?)The ODM leader asked Uhuru to be mindful of governors and their mandates."Kwa niaba ya Nasa... tunataka kiutoa onyo...heshimu katiba, heshimu sheria na governors wote. Heshima si utumwa, kama unataka kuheshimiwa heshimu wengine," he said.This means: "NASA is warning...respect the constitution...respect the law and all governors. Respect is not slavery. If you want to be respected you must respect others."Raila noted that he respects Uhuru as Kenya's leader but added that all other leaders deserve reverence."Ninaheshimu Uhuru kama rais.. ninamheshimu lakini niko na jukumu la kumkosoa. Sijapinga serikali. Ninampinga na sababu," he said.(I respect Uhuru as Kenya's leader but it is my responsibility to correct him. I am not opposing the government...I am opposing him with justification.)Raila has been termed bitter for his severe criticism of the government. It has also been said that he focuses on failures and never praises the President for his accomplishments.Read: Jubilee will improve Kenyans lives despite Raila's 'unfair' criticism - RutoRecent public outbursts, personal attacks and raw anger have come to characterise the President&rsquo;s style.He has called opposition leader Raila Odinga a &ldquo;madman&rdquo; and a &ldquo;witch doctor&rdquo; and told striking doctors he would &ldquo;sort them out.&rdquo; Generally easygoing and affable, the 55-year-old head of state appears to be losing his cool, lambasting and ridiculing rivals and critics.Is this a deliberate get-tough strategy, or are these the spontaneous outbursts of a public figure under stress?The doctors' strike lasted 100 years, the one by lecturers 52 days and Baringo and Laikipia counties have faced months of death and destruction by marauding herders and banditsPeople and animals are also dying in different parts of the country amid a devastating drought.More on this: Eight classic outbursts by President Uhuru Kenyatta