The decision by the Kenyan and US governments to extrajudicially extradite the Akasha brothers and their drug dealing friends should teach us a lesson. It appears the Judiciary and the entire criminal justice system must change fundamentally, or the only way to get things moving is to break the law, as with the extradition, out of necessity. When former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga talked of Kenya being a bandit economy, he should have narrowed down on the Judiciary as a bandit system. Or perhaps senior counsel John Khaminwa was more accurate when he talked of cartels controlling the Judiciary. Here is how it works. A person of interest is arraigned in court for a crime. His lawyer negotiates with the magistrate or judge and the case goes nowhere after that. Delays upon delays follow, because the magistrate is absent, in training, unwell, or overloaded and therefore requires the parties to take fresh dates. Justice delayed is justice denied, but for this system, justice delayed is a frustrated complainant who may eventually be forced to drop the case. The lawyers, for whom the corridors of the courts are their playground, know this all too well and cannot be beaten at their game. The Americans, who desperately wanted the Akashas, knew this as well, and chose the more pragmatic route: Just abduct the suspects and fly them away. I have had a case pending at the Milimani court for two years without a single hearing taking place. A manager at the Geothermal Development Company, Eric Wamanji, was arraigned in court on March 3, 2015, for sending me threatening SMSs. He wanted the Star to stop publishing stories about corruption at the GDC under the then MD Silas Simiyu. He pleaded not guilty. After that, his confident lawyer Cliff Ombeta handed over the case to another lawyer. On April 28, 2015, the case failed to take off as magistrate Miriam Mugure was away for training. We were told to take new dates. On August 3, 2015, the case failed to take off again, after Mugure heard some cases and then said she was unwell and adjourned the case. On October 26, 2015, she was away. And then the police took over the delaying process. Officers from the cybercrime unit said it was wrong for officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations attached to the Parklands station to have extracted the data from the mobile phones of Wamanji and I. They said it was their task. I was asked to take my phone to the station again, and they have kept it to this day. When the matter came up in court again on February 9, 2016, the investigating officer said the cybercrime officers had not yet extracted the data from my phone, which they had held for two months. One officer tasked to extract the data was said to be out of Nairobi on assignment in Rift Valley. Since then it has been postponement after postponement. I suspect one day I will be told the case was dropped because I did not present myself in court, yet I was not bonded to appear. It has been two years of watching how a corrupt criminal justice system defeats justice with impunity. Meanwhile, the man who threatened my life continues with his employment. He even writes a regular column in the Nation, advising on good management practice. His life merely suffered a small bump when he was forced to stop teaching at a local university where he was taking evening classes, but everything else returned to normal in no time. If the Akashas had not been abducted, it would have been a similar narrative until the end of time. A court ordered former minister Chris Okemo and former Kenya Power MD James Gichuru be extradited to stand trial in the UK after they stashed away more than Sh380 million in the island of Jersey allegedly acquired irregularly using their positions in public office. Anyone want to bet how this will turn out?