I got my share of foul-mouthed social media slurs last week when I went patriotic and gave President Uhuru Kenyatta a glimpse of the other side of his State of the Nation address in an inappropriately titled &ldquo;Expert Comment&rdquo; piece. What the blubbers had called &ldquo;big English&rdquo; innuendo became reality.The audacity of saying the Last Mile Electricity project is a fake and corruption embedded wasn&rsquo;t my last word after all. I&rsquo;m vindicated but for the umpteenth time, why is tax nearing double the cost of electricity units consumed?It turns out that the figure of 3.7 million household connections to the national grid the President read was the fictitious work of hustlers. They&rsquo;re so embedded within the project they can coerce Kenya Power to lie to the President, who in turn told the lie to Kenyans.Cooked figures by crooked government officials are nothing new, it&rsquo;s routine. What&rsquo;s new is lying to the President at the risk of imprisonment for abetting economic crimes via false information.It gets murkier. Any roll of figures on record by the President might require urgent review to forestall being &ldquo;misused&rdquo; against him this election period. Numbers don&rsquo;t lie, it is people who lie with numbers. That is why facts remain stubborn, even if you change numbers. It is why Kenyans gasped at the 3.7 million.For a regime that is fascinated with the numbers game, it would be a big blow if the false shield around projects is brought down and the glaring contradictions exposed as in the Last Mile.But until that cleanup, I have a bone to pick with the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit. Strategic means calculated. Presidential speeches of the kind Uhuru read are calculated to triumph over the winds of time. They are not calculated to deceive but to record the passing of history. Anyone working within PSCU ought to know this ethereal responsibility to President and country.What then is strategic about a unit that cannot sieve such dirt from a presidential speech unless it is conniving to affirm it, though deception? Who is responsible for the President&rsquo;s text and its validity? Shall we expunge the lie(s) from that speech when opening the Uhuru Kenyatta Presidential Library in Kiambu county in 2020?These are not useless questions. We cannot afford to drain the symbolism of national austerity from the presidency. To do so is to assault the Constitution and denigrate the very essence why Kenyans pay homage to the idea of the rule of law.One way of doing it is to strip the presidency of credibility and make it the butt of humorous crude jokes. A President is allowed to lose memory and, with a slip of the tongue, tell stories that are not real once in a while. But blunders in the form of written speeches are taboo.Some may ignorantly think the assertion of the presidency as symbolising our collective will to live together is poetic verbiage. They do not know we would turn against each other the moment we lose respect for and fear of that institution.It is for this reason the presidential speech vigilantes ought to know respect is earned and fear is perceived. If all we do is be made to laugh at the President or dread what he would say, then the vigilantes would have failed on their watch in protecting our symbol.Lastly, presidential speeches are designed with the knowledge that we live in a world of records that tell (his)tory. That&rsquo;s why a qualified speechwriter thinks of accuracy, not political convenience.Such communication is not the transient musings of idlers. It is not what is believed to be. It&rsquo;s what is reflective of the times. It should not, therefore, be left to courtiers, whose merit lies in amusement. It must be in the hands of thoughtful and skilled drafters, not compilation experts.Such hands would have let the President express regret at not electrifying 3.7 million households and plead for more time to see the project through. They would humanise the President for history to record that he was honest in regretting failure. Unlike the present courtiers, they would not pay cyberspace surrogates to hurl obscenities at innocent me.