 Exasperated with the shenanigans of the Sixth Parliament, veteran journalist Philip Ochieng did the unthinkable in the single party era. He took to the pages of his Kanu owned Kenya Times newspaper and dismissed the kit and caboodle of them as "layabouts, idlers, thieves, ne'er-do-wells, conmen and illiterates." Unfortunately, over the years, we have at each voting cycle taken to the National Assembly men and women with the same traits Ochieng described quarter-century ago. If not arbitrarily raising their salaries and other emoluments, our legislators are always in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. It therefore beggared disbelief when the same members of the Tower of Babel that is our National Assembly, wearing a holier-than-thou attitude, made the ‘Solomonic’ suggestion that the country does away with their siblings, who sit in the Upper House — the senators. But then again, we can at this moment ask those expressing surprise at the MP’s hair-brained suggestion: Are you a stranger in Jerusalem? This was vintage MPs’ modus operandi, where everyone else — including the very voters who gave them their jobs — are wrong and only the ‘Waheshimiwa’ are right. Obviously playing on Kenyans’ emotions, especially on the fact that many people feel the country is over represented, the MPs, through the Budget and Appropriations Committee, proposed that the Senate be abolished, and governors appointed by President as opposed to being elected. As an afterthought,  the committee headed by Mbeere South MP Mutava Musyimi suggested that the Senate be given more powers to effectively baby sit devolution. To show their interests came first, the MPs further proposed that Cabinet Secretaries and county executives be appointed from elected, just as it was in the past. They want a referendum held to consider the proposals. I am saying that the strengthening of the Senate was an afterthought by the legislators because it is only a newcomer in this country, who hasn't seen or heard about the bitter sibling rivalry between the two Houses of Parliament. More often than not, it is the National Assembly that has been behaving like a spoilt brat, always picking quarrels with the Senate and engaging in school playground pissing contest trying to show their superiority to their cousins in the Upper House. Far and away, we can say that senators have carried themselves with dignity befitting their office. Apart from a notorious one, well-known for punching walls, engaging in uncalled for public wailing and generally making a fool of himself, I believe a fair assessment would give our senators a good report. Worldwide, various countries have adopted two Houses of Parliament for different reasons but, the overriding consideration usually seems to be enhancement of good governance. A casual glance will show that most of these countries have historical lessons which made them have the two Houses. Over and above, it is agreed that the Upper House usually attracts the best of the political class, men and women who have proven their mettle in other realms of society, and whose knowledge and wisdom are called upon to steady the ship of statesmanship. In the United States, the Senate guarantees equal rights for all the stakeholders no matter the size. In the case of the US, the large state of California’s voice in the Senate is equal to that of the tiny Rhode Island. No more no less. The same situation obtains in Germany, where the wise men (and women) sit in the Bundesrat, overseeing the affairs of the various regions. Coming back to Kenya, we need to examine the reasons that saw us adopt this system of legislature. It is an open secret that the centralised system that we embraced at Independence did more harm than good, in as far as sharing the national cake is concerned. For me, nothing captures this better than what I heard from a wizened man I met in Turkana county last year. After driving the 160 or so kilometers from Kakuma, I settled for the night in Lodwar town and being the nosy scribe that I am, I ventured into town talking to the locals and that is when I met him. “Mimi napenda sana hii devolution. Kwa mara ya kwanza tangu nizaliwe nimeona barabara iko na lami loosely translated to mean (I love this devolution because for the first time since I was born, I have now seen a tarmacked road),” he said. This story can be replicated in very many parts of the country, where serious neglect from Nairobi-based mandarins saw some parts of the country leapfrog in development, while the others had to be content with living in the Dark Ages. Coupled with our winner takes it all kind of politics, with the benefit of hindsight, we can say that this type of planning was part of the seeds for the 2007 post-election violence. Those who missed out on the presidency saw themselves doomed, and the best way they could show their dissatisfaction was by raising the cudgels against fellow Kenyans. It was therefore no surprise that the referendum got a good backing from Kenyans who saw it as the chance to correct the many wrongs that were  perpetrated since Independence. Has the Senate lived to its billing and do we still need it or is time we threw it away? This has been the elephant in the room. One of the crimes the Senate has been consistently accused of is that it is a waste of money. Admittedly, Kenya has just too many representatives and if we are to be honest, it is time we asked whether this is sustainable. A good comparison has been made with the state of  California, which with a population of 40 million people and $3 trillion GDP, is run by one governor, while Kenya with 45 million people and $70 billion GDP has 47 governors. A wise crack I know has even suggested that we do away with all the other positions and be left with 47 members of the National Assembly, 349 MCAs and eight governors in charge of the former provinces. But I would make a radical proposal. Do we really need all these MPs? If you compiled a list from the Hansard, you will find some names of the honourable legislators, who are yet to make their maiden speeches in Parliament in what football commentators call ‘kipindi cha lala salama’. And while at it, what have the Woman representatives done to justify their presence in the next Parliament? I think Parliament is a place for serious business and we do not need ornamental members (no pun intended) just because we have them in the Constitution. I believe we can always change the Constitution to do away with this category of MPs. On the other hand, Article 98 of the Constitution stipulates that membership of the Senate shall be comprised of: Forty-seven members, each elected by the registered voters of the counties, each county constituting a single member constituency; Sixteen women members, who shall be nominated by political parties according to their proportion of members of the Senate elected under clause (a) in accordance with Article 90; Two members, being one man and one woman, representing the youth; Two members, being one man and one woman, representing persons with disabilities; and the Speaker, who shall be an ex-officio member. In my view, this is a fair representation. The clerk to the Senate Jeremiah Nyegenye is one man who truly earns his keep and his knowledge of the workings of the world’s Upper Houses is astounding. According to the good man, who seems to have seen it all as one of the custodians of the Senate, the claim that the upper house is gobbling public funds is a red herring thrown around. “Check our budget and you will agree that this is a very small price to pay when you look at the overall gains accruing from the Senate and devolution in general,” he says. According to him, the Senate’s performance has been exemplary considering that it was a new concept with no prior experience to fall on. What must be noted is that despite the fact that we enacted the 2010 constitution, which gave devolution the pride of place, the fact is that there are some who still live with the dream — or nightmare — that the whole concept can be thrown out and we go back to the former ways of doing things. The current onslaught against the Senate and indeed devolution can be seen against this milieu. It is not in doubt that the National Assembly has at times appeared like it is in bed with those who want to see devolution killed. If not making snide remarks against their kindred in the Senate, our MPs have time and again questioned the whole concept of devolution. Some people believe some powerful forces in the Executive are working in cahoots with the National Assembly to tar the Senate then wipe it off the face of the earth. Giving a dog a bad name then killing it, as it were. However, the process of abolishing the Senate is long and tedious. Thanks to their wisdom, the framers of the 2010 Constitution put in the near impossible clause that after a referendum, Senate itself would debate and vote on its disbandment. Senate Clerk Nyegenye says this clause was the best thing that ever happened to devolution. “As things stand, I don’t see the Senate — and by extension devolution — being done away with in my lifetime. We must thank the framers of the Constitution for this brilliant thought,” he says. Article 96 of the Constitution states that the following shall be the roles of the Senate:- -       The Senate represents the counties, and serves to protect the interests of the counties and their governments; -       The Senate participates in the lawmaking function of Parliament by considering, debating and approving Bills concerning the counties, as provided in Articles 109 to 113 of the Constitution; -       The Senate determines the allocation of national revenue among the counties, as provided in Article 217 of the Constitution, and exercises oversight over national revenue allocated to the county governments; and -       The Senate participates in the oversight of state officers by considering and determining any resolution to remove the President or Deputy President from office in accordance with Article 145 of the Constitution. If we were to compile an end of term report card for the Senate, I believe it would not be farfetched to say that the Upper House has walked the talk. For instance, we have witnessed the battles with the Executive on revenue allocation and clearly the Senate stood on the side of the common man. It is my only hope that the Senate will be strengthened further to play its vanguard role on devolution even more effectively.      . 