The three Principals, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, are no different from Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto.These are people who were schooled in Kanu politics. They have the same blood chemistry. There are people who support Raila Odinga all over the country because they believe that the whole management of public affairs needs a 360&deg; overhaul, not a fuata Nyayo proposition.Main story: It is Raila or lose, NASA committee warns principalsWhen Jomo Kenyatta died, Moi said &ldquo;fuata Nyayo&rdquo;, when Kibaki came to power he said &ldquo;Kazi iendelee&rdquo;. At that time, Raila was saying &ldquo;Kazi ianze&rdquo;.When Uhuru ascended to power, that same status quo approach to politics applied.Raila shifted his political base to Kibaki in 2002. At that time, Kibaki appeared to represent a 100 per cent shift in the management of issues. But after Kibaki was sworn in, the &ldquo;fuata Nyayo&rdquo; policy kicked in all over again.So, among the supporters of Raila, a majority want a new way of doing things. It&rsquo;s not reflected in any of the three Principals. So if he pushes, say, Musalia, there will be voter apathy. His supporters will not vote for Musalia, they will not vote for any of the Principals, as a protest vote.The same scenario played out in the US. Bernie Sanders came up with a view that there needed to be a new America, a new way of doing things. When he was forced to move out and a pro-establishment person called Hillary Clinton was brought in, the majority of Sanders&rsquo; supporters either voted for Donald Trump or they failed to vote. So, there are many Kenyans who would want Raila on the ballot, not any of these other guys. Is Raila&rsquo;s constituency easily transferable? Not anymore.But again, even if Raila were to support any of the other Principals, who will fund that campaign? It&rsquo;s only Raila who has the resources, both human capital. He has the financial capital, goodwill, both locally and internationally, to sustain a Presidential campaign. Will the people pump in billions in kind if it&rsquo;s not Raila?As for the other Principals, do they have the spine to challenge a Presidential poll result? Imagine a situation where the IEBC announces Uhuru Kenyatta the winner. Can the IEBC continue to be alert if they know Raila is no more? Very many organs of government are always alert by virtue of the very name Raila Amolo Odinga.Political analyst