Religious leaders have not yet reached a deal with striking doctors, a day before they table their report at the Court of Appeal. However, those in the talks said there was &lsquo;a lot of goodwill&rsquo; from both sides. The religious leaders have been pleading with the doctors to accept an improved government offer and resume work, then continue negotiations. The talks resume today, and the parties are expected to file a report at the Court of Appeal tomorrow. At least five parties so far have met officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union with no success. These include government officials, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, the Law Society of Kenya, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, and now the Inter-religious Council of Kenya. The government has given what it described as its best offer to doctors, a monthly pay increase of between Sh65,000 to Sh130,000. The offer brings the monthly salary of an intern to Sh208,000 and specialists close to Sh600,000. However, KMPDU leaders have adamantly rejected the offer, saying interns should be paid Sh325,000 and specialists Sh1 million. Last week, the LSK and KNCHR failed to reach a deal with the parties and the strike now enters day 92. Through lawyers James Orengo and Philip Murgor, officials of the doctors&rsquo; union told the Court of Appeal last week religious leaders might be better placed to help end the stalemate. The final report on mediation by the LSK and KNCHR was also tabled in court. In the report, KMPDU claims it has revised its position and reviewed proposals on basic salary and allowances twice, but the government has refused to review its position. &ldquo;We have indicated willingness to continue presenting other scenarios within this mediation process. These offers have been rejected by the government, who would rather have the strike continue than table an alternative offer,&rdquo; union chairman Samuel Oroko said. However, the union did not put in writing any proposed reduction of their demands. The union also said it is not ready to negotiate with &ldquo;junior&rdquo;officials in the Health ministry, including Francis Musyimi, the head of administration. Oroko said the government should be represented by CS Cleopa Mailu and his Treasury counterpart Henry Rotich. Rotich had accused the unionists of &ldquo;taking orders from other quarters&rdquo;.He said they would concede ground during negotiations, only to change their mind after leaving. &ldquo;The current offer by the government has been presented for more than two months now. The union&rsquo;s position has been that the offer be improved, but hopes the mediation does not collapse,&rdquo; a KMPDU official said. It added, &ldquo;Our position on the previously tabled offer has not changed.&rdquo;Last week, opposition leaders urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to swallow his pride and allow them help end the strike. Speaking in separate functions MPs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem) and Omondi Muluan (Alego Usonga) faulted the government for letting the strike enter the third month.