One of the most successful chicken farmers in Matayos constituency, Busia county, is a 96-year-old widow. She is also blind.But Lewinida Oroni takes it all in her stride, recounting the ups and downs of her burgeoning poultry business.Today, she jokes that she would have prepared us chicken stew, but a strange disease recently killed more than 300 of her chickens. &ldquo;I was able to sell more than 400 chickens before the rest died,&rdquo; she says. Lewinida lives in her two-roomed, mud-walled house in Matayos constituency.It is naturally cooled, shielding her away from the scorching sun outside.&ldquo;She has to touch your head for her to recognise you and know what gender you are, as her hearing has also deteriorated with age,&rdquo; says Agineta Matini, her 61-year-old daughter who who lives with her.&ldquo;My husband asked me to come back home and take care of mum as she was pretty old with no one to take care of her,&rdquo; Agineta said.LIFE-CHANGING PLANLewinida is one of Kenya's first beneficiaries of the old people cash transfer programme.She was enrolled in 2007 when the pilot programme started in the then Thika, Nyando and later Busia districts.Beneficiaries, classified as vulnerable, receive some Sh2,000 every month, through select banks.Most of these people are already weakened by age and poor health. In Kenya, majority are formerly jobless women whose husbands died leaving them with nothing.The cash transfers have become a vital lifeline for them.The money is often preferable to relief items, allowing individuals and families to spend money on what they need, and to make these critical decisions for themselves in a dignified manner.But is it always rosy?As a beneficiary the last 10 years, Lewinida has constructed a new mud house for herself, next to the old one, whose wooden pillars have been chewed up by termites.&ldquo;This was the first thing I did with the first money, as shelter is important to everyone. I bought iron sheets as my old ones were already leaking. When the water got in, I would develop colds and the doctor advised me to move to a new house to avoid getting pneumonia,&rdquo; she says. She later bought some three chicks and developed her brood. At the height of her business last year, she had close to 700 chickens.Lewinida has not faced food shortage, and Aginetta says her mother's memory is even sharper.She recalls living in &lsquo;the big city&rsquo;, Nairobi, in Pangani and Majengo estates. &ldquo;I followed my husband to Nairobi in the early 1930&rsquo;s, at only 14 years of age, though my parents were against it. This was love at the time, but I really loved him,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;I even remember at that time we would walk all the way to Kabete to buy meat and come back.&rdquo;Sirila Okumi, now 78, claims neighbours used to lock doors on her because she became a nuisance. She would beg for food and even clothes.Okumi has been saving some money since she was enrolled in 2007. She now runs a small retail shop at Nambuku, Samia subcounty, in Busia.She also bought two cows.&ldquo;Right now, I am able to pay school fees for my grandchildren and also support other women in the community,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;Saving has been core to my survival and getting this wealth. I always urge all women to at least save some money for a rainy day and start something up for themselves.&rdquo;Okumi went further and enrolled in the National Hospital Insurance Fund, which helps her access medical checkups and treatment free of charge.&ldquo;Enrolling in this scheme has made my life easier. With age, one is prone to diseases, but with this card, I can live a fully healthy life,&rdquo; she says.Eighty-year-old grandmother Nekesa Ojuma from Busiwabo location in Busia agrees. &ldquo;Health is important, as without health you are probably dead,&rdquo; she jokes. Nekesa acknowledges that staying connected to people and things that matter to you is key to good health. &ldquo;People should not shy away from taking care of their parents, as they also took care of them when they were young and did not know anything in the world,&rdquo; she says.&ldquo;As you age, you're also more likely to experience emotional trauma associated with the loss of people close to you, your own health or even your independence. You need to have those you cherish by your side.&rdquo;PROGRAMME CRITERIAMaurice Ng&rsquo;oleyang&rsquo;, the Busia county coordinator for social development, says 80 per cent of elderly Kenyans do not have formal income security and are therefore vulnerable to poverty.He says elderly persons nowadays are left to confront the problems of old age alone. Traditionally, older people were the custodians and leaders of the community.The young people were also beholden to their elders.&ldquo;As they grow older, people also become weaker. If attention and support from families and community members erodes, their self-confidence and social interactions may decrease. At this point, older persons can become isolated and depressed,&rdquo; Ng&rsquo;oleyang&rsquo; says. &ldquo;Having elderly people who have a source of income would contribute to development, especially when they need to step in to take care of orphans.&rdquo;Currently, the old people cash transfer programme is mainly funded by the government.The Sh2,000 per household per month is delivered cumulatively once every two months through Equity Bank and Kenya Commercial Bank.Beneficiaries must be at least 65 years old, poor and vulnerable, and their household must not be enrolled in any other cash transfer programme.Members of the household must also not be on pension, regular income or any gainful employment.&ldquo;The criteria, which has been tested and refined over time, includes age of the beneficiary, household income and productive assets, physical and health status, general economic status of other family members, just to mention a few. Apart from the data collected by government officials, community members participate in verification of the selected individuals,&rdquo; Ng&rsquo;oleyang&rsquo; says.He adds: &ldquo;Because the fund is not yet sufficient to cover all the elderly people, these meetings also help community members to collectively prioritise the names of those they perceive to be in utmost need.&rdquo;The programme is part of the social safety net investments, which include cash transfers to vulnerable children and people with disabilities.They are controlled by the Labour ministry to help Kenya achieve the minimum package of social protection as defined by the AU Social Policy Framework.Nairobi-based African Institute for Health and Development provides technical assistance to the ministry, together with the Partnership for African Social and Governance Research, another city-based research group.AIHD mainly focuses on implementing evidence-based programmes relevant to Kenya and other African countries.The institute's research dispels fears that elderly people may misuse the money they receive.This position is backed by strong evidence from across Africa, Asia, and Latin America that confirms cash transfers are strong anti-poverty tools, and fears of misuse are almost never justified.&ldquo;Social transfers are increasingly being seen as a key tool in East and Southern Africa for combating the triple threat of chronic poverty, hunger and HIV-Aids,&rdquo; Ng&rsquo;oleyang&rsquo; says. &ldquo;In the advent of the global financial, food and fuel crises, and the high incidence of either infectious and non-communicable diseases, there are increasing calls for the scale-up of such programmes to protect the poor and promote human rights.&rdquo;Lewinida is now awaiting her next payout to top up her savings. She will restock her poultry business. &ldquo;Maybe when you come again, I will prepare chicken for you,&rdquo; she says.