Have President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto failed to deal with NASA&rsquo;s invasion of their traditional Jubilee strongholds? Word has it that some JP legislators are deeply disappointed and angered over the turn of events. It is said one MP was heard around Parliament lamenting about the Jubilee principals&rsquo; passiveness during a crucial time when they should hold or direct their brigades to stage parallel rallies to counter the Raila Odinga-led team. The aggrieved lawmaker wondered how Uhuru and Ruto could comfortably sit back and watch as NASA rallies receive front-page coverage in local dailies all week without doing anything about it. It is said the MP vowed to concentrate on his own reelection and not care whether UhuRuto are reelected.Residents of a county in Northeastern are making fun of recent remarks made by a senior politician in the area. The man was quoted at a public rally accusing supporters of the county government of all sorts of evil, calling them &lsquo;maney&rsquo;, a Somali word for a greedy person. According to him, those who hang around the governor are greedy and are only doing so in their own selfish interest. However, many residents feel he is the one who fits the description since he has been in government for decades and is unwilling to let go and has vowed to defend his seat at the forthcoming polls.An NGO that identifies its role as working to end poverty and injustice has caused a storm among its consultants and service providers after a leaked internal email claimed they have been blacklisted. The 11 registered companies and 10 individual consultants are blacklisted from offering services to the organisation and should not be engaged in procurement activities. Those affected say the NGO has its roots in the US and has never raised an issue with them and view such communication as defamatory and in bad faith. Worse still, the NGO owes some consultants millions of shillings for services rendered, dating as far back as 2014. The wife of a senator from Western on Monday last week got the shock of her life at a commercial bank within Nairobi&rsquo;s CBD. Reason? The gracious lady, dressed in West African garb, had visited the bank for a number of transactions. The wife of the Mheshimiwa could not believe her ears when a teller in the VIP section informed her that she had zero cents in her account. Our mole reports she nearly fainted and demanded to see the branch manager. Unfortunately, the manager was not around at that moment. She suspects that one of the bank&rsquo;s employees may have found a way into her account and withdrawn the money.