The National Land Commission on Monday revoked a plan by the Kenya Airports Authority to compensate 130 families for the first phase of the Malindi airport expansion. Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri said the 2012 evaluation of Kwa Chocha South is not recognised by the NLC, the only agency authorised to conduct an evaluation. The national government released Sh300 million to compensate 130 families, who will be displaced from the 25 hectares meant for the first phase. It is projected the expansion will cost Sh5.6 billion. Swazuri spoke during a meeting with residents of Kwa Chocha South in Malindi town. He sought to alleviate th anxiety about when the process of compensation would be completed. The meeting was attended by residents, top NLC officials and representatives of the county commissioner. “Under the Constitution, it’s the NLC that is mandated to acquire land for the expansion,” he said. The NLC chairman said the delays in compensating residents were caused by lack of funds, which are now available. Swazuri said unlike the previous process that lasted five years, compensation for Kwa Chocha South would only take a month. He said the Transport CS has requested land for airport expansion. The commission issued a gazette notice on January 13 and will soon send a letter for the public inquiry. “After the inquiry we shall send officers to inspect and evaluate property, demand titles and question the legality of he property,”Swauri said. He said whoever obtained title deeds illegally will lose ownership documents while the genuine will be compensated. Swazuri said by April the land agency will have completed compensation at Kwa Chocha South and move to other areas designated for the expansion. He said squatters occupied the land at Lights area and they will also be compensated to allow for development. Those in Kisumu Ndogo, who are at the area designated for runway expansion, will be compensated. The NLC chairman said that earlier people had been misled by individuals who did not understand the law and the process of acquiring land for expansion. “The expansion plan was there long before. The first airstrip was at Eden Rock before it was moved to the current area. The problem is that it was never communicated to the public,” Swazuri said. “But records are there and the project has to be implemented,’’ he said. After his speech, residents appeared satisfied with his explanation and blamed KAA for misleading them.