Kenya Simbas face Germany in a Test Match at the Rfuea grounds on May 27.Germany, who sit 22nd in the current world rugby ranking, recently recorded their first win over Romania, beating the 16th ranked side 41-38 in European Championship match last month.Kenya are ranked 23rd in the world rankings released on Monday.The Simbas have had success against European opposition in the recent past beating Portugal 41-15 and Spain 36-27 in 2015 and will fancy their chance of beating the visitors on home soil.Team manager, Wangila Simiyu, said the Germany game will be good preparation for the Africa Cup fixtures against Namibia, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Senegal and Tunisia.&ldquo;It will be a good match and we will use it to try out various combinations and get the boys in good physical and mental frame to enable us get our season off to a good start,&rdquo; added Simiyu.The team held their first training session on Monday at the Barclays Sports Club along Thika Road. Simiyu said they have adequate time to keep the boys in good shape by the time the international fixtures start.&ldquo;There are certain areas of play which we have to work on like strength and conditioning,&rdquo; added Simiyu. The 40-man squad named last week will be whittled down to 35 next month.Elsewhere, Nairobi Province has released pools for the regional 15s finals set for Friday at Nairobi School. Sub-regional finals were concluded last Saturday where the top two teams qualified for the games to battle for a slot in the nationals to be held in Machakos County in June 2017.Ofafa Jericho are seeded top in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; where they will fight it out with St. Mary&rsquo;s and Moi Forces Academy. Ofafa didn&rsquo;t go past Metropolitan stage in 2016 as the top two slots were taken by Upper Hill and Laiser Hill. However, Laiser Hill have shifted back to Rift Valley.Nairobi region giants Upper Hill are in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; alongside Muhuri Muchiri and Jamhuri as hosts Nairobi School and fierce rivals Lenana School clash in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; together with Aquinas. The nine teams will play two matches each after which the aggregate standings will see the top two qualify for semis then the final. Qualifying for semis will be a ticket to the nationals already.Upper Hill won the northern region final at the weekend after a convincing 17-0 win over hosts Lenana. Moi Forces Academy defeated Dagoretti 15-3 in the play-off to grab the remaining ticket to the regional games.