Local Organising Committee of the IAAF World Under-18 Championships chief executive officer, Mwangi Muthee has described the recent tour of Uganda as an eye opener ahead of the July Youth show.He said they are keen to emulate the organisation of the just concluded World Cross Country Championships in Kampala as they race against time to prepare for the global youth show. Mwangi was speaking after a closed door meeting with a high powered delegation from the IAAF.&ldquo;Kampala put up a wonderful event. And going by the words of the IAAF President Seb Coe, it has vindicated IAAF&rsquo;s commitment to bring top flight competition to non-traditional centres like Africa,&rdquo; Muthee said. &ldquo;We in Nairobi shall endeavour not only to emulate Uganda, but to serve a competition surpassing those standards.&rdquo;Muthee said in the last few weeks, Kenya&rsquo;s preparedness has gone a notch higher. &ldquo;Infrastructure upgrading at the competition venue, Athletes Village, and other relevant facilities has picked up pace. The contractors are working diligently to finish everything ahead of schedule,&rdquo; he said.Muthee said, with the benefit of advice from past and recent IAAF delegation visits, his committee had worked on all aspects of Nairobi&rsquo;s preparedness to host the Championships. He paid tribute to IAAF for continued LOC support.&ldquo;They inspected all relevant facilities and working plans and mapped out for us anything that was outstanding. We want to get it right. This will be an event in the limelight; beamed across the world. We want to have a first class competition and in order to do that; we must have in place all requirements for the technical people who will, be driving the organisation, especially the IAAF technical officials, IAAF partners and local volunteers.&rdquo;&ldquo;The marketing experts advised the LOC on how to project the &lsquo;look and feel&rsquo; of the Championships and the best way to brand IAAF, Kenya and the City of Nairobi.&ldquo;We discussed crucial event operations, team services, accommodation and office space utilization for the IAAF Family, media, broadcast and television facilities and accreditation for officials, technical staff, volunteers and media, among other things.&ldquo;All directorates with relevant roles in the championships had their hands full during the meetings with the delegates. We are in the last straight in our preparations and they must be able to report that all milestones in the planning and implementation so far. We are fast-approaching the D-Day,&rdquo; concluded Muthee.IAAF director of operations Carlo Di Angeli expressed confidence in the country&rsquo;s ability to host the championship. &ldquo;The championships are being enthusiastically organised by the LOC fully supported by the City of Nairobi and the Kenyan Government. We call on everyone to redouble their already impressive efforts to drive these championships across the finish line in July,&rdquo; he said