I read an article in the columns of this paper last weekend which worried me. It started off with a well written scholarly analysis of competitive elections under political systems such as ours, and the need to agree on &ldquo;the rules of the game&rdquo; ahead of the elections so that the outcome can be respected and accepted by all competitors. So far so good. It also delved into some real problems that the IEBC is facing and pleaded for understanding and appreciating these problems without sweeping them under the table.But what irked me was a doomsday theory the author seems to have advanced that the Opposition &mdash; read NASA &mdash; was hell-bent on discrediting the IEBC because it was interested in chaos during elections, to arrive at an indeterminate outcome which would favour a &ldquo;nusu mkate&rdquo; government subsequently. The author did not realise that this is exactly what a good number of people &mdash; not necessarily NASA supporters only &mdash; are accusing the Jubilee government of. Having lost the &ldquo;mandate of heaven&rdquo; &mdash; as the Chinese would put it &mdash; the Jubilee honchos have realised they can only hold on to some state power where a coalition is enforced as a condition for peace. In other words, we go back to 2008.I will not go that direction in this article. On the contrary, I would like to remind the author of that article that we are where we are today due to opposition resistance to the old discredited IEBC, and resolute struggle to force the Jubilee government to concede to electoral reforms. That is a fact that cannot be denied.Second, after a joint parliamentary committee agreed to a package that reduced these reforms to law, it is also true that the Jubilee government, using its Tyranny of Numbers in Parliament, forced changes into the agreed laws, introducing a nebulous provision that allowed an &ldquo;alternative manual system&rdquo; in voting in the event that the electronic system fails. If this provision was rational and innocent of any underhand manoeuvres, why was it introduced to Parliament and forced down the throat of parliamentarians with the army barricading the august House until the Senate objected to those bad manners?The author of the article, paternalistically, argues that the changes to the law that were forced on Parliament were good in and of themselves because they were meant to safeguard a peaceful election. Only Jubilee, and not NASA, is interested in a peaceful election, argues the author. Going by what was witnessed in Parliament, this peace will perhaps be enforced through the armed might of the state if the Jubilee government assumes people might vote contrary to its interests. An Opposition interested in chaos at elections would not have drawn the attention to the flaws in the electoral laws several years before the elections. This, in actual fact, is what Okoa Kenya did, but Jubilee would not listen to us then until we took to the streets.Further, the government does not need to wait until the elections to deal with the possible chaos anybody is intending to cause. It has all the instruments in its hands to receive information, process it and deal with it. In this regard, the leaders of NASA are known to the President. If there is any concern in government regarding NASA&rsquo;s so-called schemes to perpetrate chaos, why wait until it is too late? Would it not be possible to summon the mischief planners to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and ask them to record statements, which can be used for further investigations? Only fascist governments begin by spreading dangerous rumours about citizens to justify drastic oppressive measures they intend to take against them. I hope Jubilee has not deteriorated to that level.This makes me go back to 1997. When President Daniel Moi realised that the country was extremely polarised prior to the December 1997 elections, he caused to be initiated an Inter-Party Parliamentary Group to negotiate some electoral reforms. The &ldquo;No Reform No Elections&rdquo; movement had grown very strong, and without some compromise between the two antagonistic forces, the elections were not going to be held at all. And Moi was wise enough to realise that the Opposition had &ldquo;stolen people&rsquo;s hearts&rdquo; with regard to needed electoral reforms. Once the IPPG ground rules were accepted, Moi did not go behind the group to change the rules as the Jubilee government did recently to the Murungi-Orengo led Parliamentary Committee. And that is why the December 1997 elections went on smoothly. It was only subsequent to the elections that the Opposition realised the reforms did not go far enough. They still left a lot of loopholes in the law for state-led electoral malpractices.What the recent changes that Parliament undertook achieved was to seal these loopholes. The fear regarding the &ldquo;manual alternative&rdquo; is that it introduces an element of uncertainty into the sanctity of the voting, counting and tallying process.What the IEBC needs to do is to make double sure that this will not happen. And it is not going to succeed in doing this by presuming some doomsday intentions on the part of the Opposition but by engaging with it and becoming more and more transparent. The trouble with the former Issack Hassan-led IEBC was that opaqueness was its other name.The new IEBC boss, Wafula Chebukati, must not drive the commission in that direction. The electoral agency must be a faithful servant of all players as political parties, and not as government or Opposition. It is political parties, either singly or in coalitions, that are the clients of the commission. They must all come before the commission naked and innocent. The commission will then clothe them and read to them the election &ldquo;standing orders&rdquo;, without fear or favour.The article that irked me revealed to me that the author was, no doubt, a government sympathiser, just as I am an opposition adherent. Subjective in our arguments as we are, we can only be adjudged by objective reality and what, in the final analysis, will change history. Methinks Jubilee seems to have lost the initiative to change history. That initiative, for quite some time now, has been in the hands of the opposition. While the delayed choice of the NASA flagbearer has been seen on the Jubilee side as a weakness, it now turns out that it was actually a strength. NASA has been able to hold together much better than JP. To wit, we no longer see the high fives between the President and the Deputy President. If anything, lone ranger night visits &ldquo;hapa na pale&rdquo; seem to have taken centre stage between the two men.As we approach the elections, the possible chaos will not arise from the opposition side but from a dysfunctional JP.As someone says in Shakespeare&rsquo;s &ldquo;Julius Caesar&rdquo;, &lsquo;the fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars but in ourselves.&rsquo; Or as Haselitz observes about Othello in that tragic Shakespearian play, &ldquo;In Othello the Moor, the essential enemy is within the gates.&rdquo;When I look on at the goings on in Jubilee today, I see a canny resemblance to the events in Shakespeare&rsquo;s other tragedy, &ldquo;Hamlet.&rdquo; There is definitely &ldquo;something rotten in the state of Denmark&rdquo;, and this &ldquo;rotten something&rdquo;, not a &ldquo;scheming opposition&rdquo;, is what may be a prelude to chaos before and during the election.May I ask an innocent question: Who is in control of the Jubilee government? Is it President Uhuru Kenyatta? Is it Deputy President William Ruto? Is it Mama Ngina Kenyatta and former President Moi working as a team? Or is it the number crunchers at State House?By the way, these are the questions citizens are busy discussing on the streets of Nairobi, and they cannot be wished away. They may sound simplistic but we ignore them at our own peril Answers to these questions may easily reveal the kind of pressures the IEBC may be going through, or the kind of centrifugal forces swinging the commission &ldquo;hapa na pale&rdquo;. I just don&rsquo;t know.My appeal to the commission is to remain focussed. Banish corruption in purchasing equipment, services and stores. Be steadfastly professional. Under no circumstances must you countenance underhand deals, the types that have earned the current government such a bad reputation. Get rid of all dead wood and poor performers in the secretariat today and not tomorrow, and do so fairly. Once people see you doing good work they will have confidence in trusting you with the execution of the election laws.