As the clock ticks towards the August polls, political realignments have started taking shape in Nakuru.Several aspirants have started positioning themselves hoping to secure a solid voting bloc.As the August August 8 poll nears, a bruising battle for both the Nakuru governor and Senate race is shaping up, with aspirants leaving nothing to chance. Intense rivalry is already playing out in one of the country&rsquo;s political hotbed as candidates eyeing the Jubilee Party ticket comb villages and trading centres soliciting for votes from over the 700,000 registered voters. The latest move has been seen after Nakuru governor aspirant John Mututho suffered a major political blow. His preferred running mate Maureen Chebet opted out of his camp on Sunday. The 26-year-old, born and raised in Kuresoi, Nakuru county, promised to support Kinuthia Mbugua&rsquo;s reelection. &ldquo;My former boss openly downplayed the significance of my region&rsquo;s voting bloc. Mututho chose me because he wanted a young person as a running mate, but I feel he has been using me as a rubber stamp in his campaign,&rdquo; said Chebet, a secondary school teacher. However, the former Nacada chairman denied he neglected Kuresoi voters, terming the move &lsquo;laughable&rsquo;.&ldquo;I have empowered her to the political limelight. No politician will ever downplay a region&rsquo;s votes. I need votes from the entire region,&rdquo; Mututho said.However, analysts say her bid to support Kinuthia was not adding any value to the governor.Nakuru political analyst Andrew Nyabuto said &ldquo;she has never been a serious contender. She is a green-horn in politics, she is only 26, hence, made a mistake of jumping from the frying pan into the fire.&rdquo;Nyabuto said with her &lsquo;zero experience&rsquo; in politics, she will not add much value to Kinuthia&rsquo;s team.He added that the governor aspirants need to do intense consultation with the communities living in Nakuru before choosing their running mates.So far, governor aspirants former NTSA boss Lee Kinyanjui, incumbent senator James Mungai and Nominated Senator Paul Njoroge are yet to name their running mates. Kinuthia has confirmed he will retain Deputy Governor Joseph Ruto as his running mate.