The country is now in the campaign mode. But wait ... politicians began their quest for political seats on March 10, 2013. This five months phase is just a climax to their activities. Political partners are walking down the aisle every other day, committing to vows in the marriage of absolute convenience. These weddings, as strange as they are, are still attracting the attention of Kenyans with hordes of our gallant citizens attending on every other &lsquo;Saturday&rsquo; without fail. Granted, it should be our duty as political citizens to witness as our &lsquo;leaders&rsquo; join each other in these social institutions. The reality, however, is that most ordinary citizens are taking part in these activities as mere attendees. Their role is to fill the numbers in the halls so that the &lsquo;marriage&rsquo; can gain the all important approval from peers and rivals alike. The grooms and brides alike do not mind facilitating individuals in the name of delegates to stand by them as they append the most important &lsquo;signatures&rsquo; to these &lsquo;marriage&rsquo; certificates.Well, away from stories of vows, aisles, honeymoons and marriage certificates, we as Kenyans, have an urgent obligation to demand an active role in this process. The political couples are coming together so they may lead us. Why, then, are we just spectating, cheerleading and observing as if we do not matter? Implicitly, the reality is that politicians are signing these deals, disguised as alliances, for their sake. It, therefore, invites an observation that we are either eternally ignorant or we do not care about our plight.For the past four years, most citizens, save for certified sycophants, have been perpetually complaining. We have carried the burden of insensitive leadership crying for a chance to change it. Everyone, in all demographics and across the entire country desperately prays for effective governance. We want a reliable and stable economy. Each of us desires a robust environment that can spur growth in business and career development. We have, painfully, watched as companies go under, as drought becomes a permanent feature, as the shilling displays worrying fluctuations. Corruption is now a country trait, right before our eyes. Politicians have not shied from entrenching disturbing corrupt tendencies. It has been a full term of dirty deals all made as we watch. We are now witnessing political deals that just seek to cover the political class.It is now our time to demand legally binding agreements with these leaders. We should shy away from all arenas that where personal deals are made without us in mind. Discerning this is not an intense effort affair. One, when the politician's sign deals with the intent of sharing post elections positions, we should immediately realise that those pacts do not, in any way, concern us. Let them sign these certificates in their private boardrooms. In public, our role should be to demand our share once we give them power. Specific requests should be registered with them. If they cannot manage to fulfill them, let us just get out. Precisely, let them only demand votes from those present in their private dealings.It pains to see a lot of time wasted as NASA, Jubilee and other alliances hold long meetings plotting on how to share power. Good people, why are agreeing to be effective pawns in essentially primitive games. I call them such for if any political pact signed does not have service delivery in mind, then it is not a minute of your time. Private partnerships should never happen in public space. Let them first assure us, in writing and legal terms, of what they will give us. We can then allow them to retreat to the Windsor resorts of this world, discreetly, to share what they have to among ourselves. Let us not shortchange ourselves.