MultiChoice East Africa is open to the ongoing probe by the Competition Authority of Kenya over concerns raised about its monopoly in airing the English Premier League. &ldquo;The competition authority is looking out for the good of the consumer. We believe that we have not broken any rules and are providing the consumers with what they require,&rdquo; MultiChoice East Africa&rsquo;s newly appointed general manager for commercial activities Kenneth Oyolla said yesterday. The CAK last November said it was looking into the firm&rsquo;s DStv dominance in football content provision through SuperSport channels, especially its exclusive rights to English Premier League rights. A report to the competition watchdog in November last year suggested exclusive EPL broadcast rights have put it ahead of payTV competitors where sports, especially the popular EPL, is viewed as a major driver for payTV subscriptions. The authority also demanded that Multichoice resell its EPL rights to local payTV providers to level the playing field. Although Oyolla did not comment on the resale of EPL rights, he said the firm is open to investigations and is cooperating with the authority to draw a conclusion on the matter.Last year in March, Kwese Sports acquired rights to air EPL in sub-Saharan Africa through mobile, internet and satellite-based platforms. The pan-African sports content provider last month secured exclusive African broadcast rights for the US National Basketball Association. &ldquo;Today we know that different competitors have exclusive NBA rights, athletics rights and KPL rights, so I think the whole exclusivity or anti-competition is more or less based on different sports content,&rdquo; Oyolla said.He said the payTV market is driven by exclusivity as its core principle, and anyone is free to purchase the rights for different content. &ldquo;What we do is when we get the rights we try to make it as affordable as possible across the board,&rdquo; Oyolla said, &ldquo;Our consumers will continue enjoying their favourite sports content, whatever the content. It is not just about the EPL.&rdquo; MultiChoice Kenya&rsquo;s DStv announced in October a subscription price cut from November 1. The company later announced there will be no price increase for subscribers on its DStv and GOtv platforms in 2017. This was attributed to falling commodity and oil prices which affected economies and exchange rates and the rising costs of satellite capacity. Yesterday the company introduced two new incentive programmes.