This is a terrifying but all-too-common tale about a supposedly heartless hospital and a poor family unable to pay a bill. This often means the body of a loved one who died in hospital is not re- leased to the family because it cannot pay the bill. In this case, the body of a 78-year- old woman has been detained at a Na- kuru mortuary over Sh627,000 bills. Teresia Wairimu, mother of 12, died on January 3 of a brain tumour. Her body has been held at the Medi- heal Hospital mortuary, Nakuru, until the hospital says the bill has been paid. Her family has tried but is unable to clear the bill. They hope well-wishers will help. The thought of their mother&rsquo;s body lying in the mortuary is torment. The hospital bill at the time of death was Sh829,000. The family raised Sh415,000 in two separate harambees. They paid this but still owe Sh100,000 for mortuary charges and a Sh527,000 hospital bill. Mortuary charges accumulate daily. Yesterday, the Star visited their home in Kasambara village, Ebu- ru-Mbaruk ward. The deceased&rsquo;s children &mdash; Patrick, Salome, Mary, Sarafina, Emma, Jo- seph, Michale, Elizabeth and Ann &mdash; appealed for assistance. &ldquo;We have been experiencing psy- chological torture since our mother fell sick last year,&rdquo; Patrick said. She was taken to Limuru Hospital, then transferred to private Mediheal hospital due to the doctors&rsquo; strike, he said. After brain surgery, their mother was in ICU for a number of days. The children had hoped the surgery was successful and she would be home soon. Wairimu passed away. &ldquo;When she died, we planned a fundraiser to help settle the bill. We raised Sh300,000f for the hospital but the bill was still high,&rdquo; Patrick said. They held a second fundraiser in Limuru where their eldest brother lives. &ldquo;We managed to raise Sh115,000. Our father sold part of our two acres and the title is still with his surveyor,&rdquo; Patrick said. MCA hopeful Mugo Gatimu, a neighbour, said they have tried their best to raise funds but have been unable to reach the target. &ldquo;Every day, the mortuary bill shoots up,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We urge well-wishers to support the family so they can clear the bill and bury their loved one.&rdquo; A letter dated January 27 and sent to the hospital by MP Samuel Nderi- tu pleaded with the management to waive the bill. &ldquo;This is a huge burden. We request a waiver from your welfare. Release the body for burial as the family would be at risk of losing their land and liveli- hood,&rdquo; the letter reads. There has been no waiver. The children say everything has been at a standstill as they are unable to conduct their normal business. Their father, Phillip Makanya, died last year. Two other siblings &shy;&mdash; Francis Njug- una and John Mwaura &mdash; died in 2015 after short illnesses. &ldquo;It has been so sad that every year, our family members have been dy- ing,&rdquo; Patrick said in tears.