Just after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, many Kenyans had high hopes that with the retention and empowerment of the Ethics and Anti corruption and its subsequent huge allocation of resources, the country was on the right track to tackle and slay the entrench dragon of corruption.Every Kenyan knows corruption is a scourge and a plague to the country s development and its ultimate nationhood. That an independent and well-funded institution was the answer to deal with this endemic problem. However, according to many observers, EACC today is a big disappointment, in terms of delivering on its mandate and expending so much resource with so little to show for it.Kenyans need know what happened after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. That there was the expulsion, through trumped-up charges and negative media allegations, of the senior most managers such as John Mutonyi and Wilson Shollei, who indeed fought hard for the retention of the EACC in the Constitution. Because they were not ready to be misused and abused by the incoming Jubilee administration and these long-serving officials had to make way for new crop of malleable and bendy officers. In fact, many Kenyans came to know the EACC as "the grilling and quizzing institution", which only barks and never bites, especially as concerns the pro-establishment public figures. The EACC has further been known to go after public figures from anti-establishment communities, and with less political clout. It's indeed a sad story of betrayal by this well-funded institution to become a tool for the high and mighty in this country, and to become a gate keeper for the powerful.Had it not been for the Committee of Experts, the EACC would not be in existence, and the task of fighting corruption would have been in the hands the Criminal Investigations Directorate and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, two institutions with a long history of questionable results. The then Parliamentary Select Committee of the 10th Parliament had rejected a powerful EACC with prosecutorial powers that was in the harmonised draft that the CoE had prepared for them. Of course with much consternation, the PSC all together removed the EACC from the harmonised draft and it was only when the PSC returned the document that the CoE after much deliberation on its part reinserted and requested the in-coming 11th Parliament to legislate the reincarnation of the EACC to the best interest of Kenyans.But what followed was the creation of an institution that only catered for the safeguarding of the diverse interests of the powers that be. The Executive, together with leadership of the legislature, immediately after the March 2013 election started putting safe hands (as indeed in all other arms of government) in the top management of the EACC, which would not disappoint the appointing authority.Insecure and politically correct senior managers were installed at the helm of the anti-corruption commission, with a supposedly clear mandate: To safeguard the interest of the ruling Jubilee elite, their relatives and their cronies. Look at the senior managerial staff at the EACC and you will have no doubt as to who placed them there, strategically, and for what purpose. What happened next in the course of the commission doing it s clearing and forwarding business was very sad. Long serving and decent career public servants were discredited through trumped up charges, and false allegations that were published and printed in the media to malign them only for them to be immediately replaced by relatives and cronies of the top leadership of both the executive and the legislature. Thus throughout all ministries, clueless, inexperienced personnel all of a sudden replaced elderly and experienced staff and woe unto you, if you had come from the perceived anti-status quo communities and clans the EACC would have no mercy for you and would immediately concoct fabrications to send you home.Thisbegun the slow corrosion of and erosion of the credibility of the EACC as a national institution meant to fight for the interest of Kenyans at large. In the subsequent years, the commission would go after the small fish, such as traffic officers, and other small bribe takers, parading them on national media, while the big boys and girls of corruption were "quizzed and grilled" and thereafter, their investigations would go slow and mute. That is the charade Kenyans have been treated to by the EACC.At other times, the EACC sleuths will treat Kenyans to a well-choreographed storming of the homes and offices of the well connected, politically correct senior public figures for all Kenyans to watch in the evening news. Yet nothing and absolutely nothing comes out of such supposedly daring raids and the issues they were investigating dies a natural death within a short period of time.Indeed, Kenyans are afraid that as we approach the August 8 poll, the top brass of the executive and Parliament will attempt to use the EACC to award qualification certificates to their relatives and cronies, and attempt to deny the same to those perceived to be politically incorrect and those from anti-establishment areas. This will be tragic and indeed, it will lead to rogue, very corrupt, and well-connected thugs becoming MPs and MCAs across the country. This is especially in the so-called battle zone counties in northern Kenya, in Masailand, and in the coast!Kenyans would have no worries if the EACC had a history of impartiality, integrity and neutrality in doing its business and carrying out its mandate. But the reality is otherwise, and it is that no Kenyan trusts it to do an impartial job, especially as concerns certificates of integrity, qualification for nomination and any other referral documents that one has to get from it. Very sad situation indeed considering the EACC is a tax-payer funded institution.The way forward is for the disbandment of the EACC as an institution and if that is not possible, then it should not engage itself in awarding certificates of qualification, as Kenyans will see the political hand of the executive and the legislature. The EACC has thoroughly disappointed Kenyans and its time it closes shop and if it doesn t, Kenyan should attempt to close it down altogether.Abdullahi writes on topical issues