WE have a big Budget. However, the budget deficit is large. We have a big difference between the money the country expects to collect and spend.It is the usual Budget pattern where you raise taxes and accumulate debt, then give everyone in all sectors of the economy more money for expenditure.You give to commissions, ministries and create new bodies to spend.The EACC is a politicised body. It is targetting who the Executive doesn&rsquo;t like. I don&rsquo;t know what they will do with the Sh4 billion, considering that their performance is well below standard and no value for money whatever.Another thing I noticed is that gaming and lottery taxes were raised by 50 percent. While betting might not be a socially useful activity, at the same time when you totally raise taxes like that it will be totally hit. And some of these things die.There are already sites on the Internet where people can bet. I think this kind of hike is really driven by religious sentiment and not necessarily economic analysis. People who have religious sentiments should express them but it remains one of the highest taxes. It should be reconsidered.We have had the Budget grow year-on-year for the last three years. The minister talked about reducing input taxes for bread, white maize and other foodstuffs to make them cheaper.Generally, producers and importers don&rsquo;t pass on the price reduction. There is an interest in making goods cheaper for people. Whether it works or not, those tricks of raising or reducing taxes don&rsquo;t work on main goods.Most of the big things, especially tax incentives, are going to foreigners. It is something bureaucrats and the Treasury like to do to attract investors. However, they forget most investors are Kenyans. They are not just foreign investors who want a good climate for investment. The government has to stop this culture. It is a bad policy. The incentives, special economic zones and tax waivers, among other benefits, should be extended to all investors.Treasury throws money at all sectors of the economy. Treasury should rely on economic analysis. A good example is the Ifmis. More money should be channelled to the Auditor General. If he is one-and-a-half years behind, it is clear he is underfunded and understaffed. By the time he is auditing the offices the money has already been taken away &ndash; in sacks.Economics expert