Governor Hassan Joho has reported being placed under house&nbsp;arrest until President Uhuru Kenyatta leaves Mombasa. The Governor was&nbsp;earlier barred from attending the&nbsp; Mtongwe ferry services launch that Uhuru will preside over. Joho said&nbsp; General Service Unit officers told him the President ordered that he should be denied access to the venue. He said they approached him in an unpleasant manner and said they had been directed to put him under office arrest. Joho said he left his Nyali home to attend the event as a representative of his people whose issues he would have raised. "I used my private car so they did not know which vehicle I was in. My official car was with the driver only," he said. He said GSU and Flying Squad officers stopped his official vehicle thinking he was inside but were later informed that he was in the private car. "When we arrived at the venue we found a road block and the officers categorically said I was not allowed in the area," the Governor told journalists. More on this: [VIDEO] Joho barred from attending Uhuru's Mtongwe ferry launchJoho said anyone can attend a public function by leaders and that invitations are not required."I can attend Uhuru's state functions anywhere in this country. What I cannot attend are Jubilee's political rallies," he said. Uhuru, whose party held a rally at Tononoka grounds on Sunday, accused Joho of riding on projects initiated by his administration. He&nbsp; said his government had disbursed more than Sh40 billion to the county yet it was among the least developed in the region. But the county chief dismissed the claims that his government cannot account for the amount disbursed over the last our years."So far I have only received Sh17 billion - far below the&nbsp;purported&nbsp;Sh40 billion. That which I have received I can account for," he said. The Governor said Uhuru was using the&nbsp;narrative of bad governance by leaders in the Opposition to boost his re-election. He maintained that the projects launched by Uhuru's administration were started by other players. "They can call us all manner of names but we are committed to engaging in issue-based political matters that touch on the lives of our people," he said.At the launch of the Buxton foot bridge on January 5, Joho dismissed reports that the government pumped a lot of money into the project.Uhuru had boasted about his government's allocation of large amounts of money to Coast counties, Mombasa in particular.But the Governor said the money for the bridge was donated by World Bank."I know the history of this project. It started in 2010 way before Jubilee came to power," he said."What we want to hear being announced is that the Jubilee government will leave behind a few billions for several projects."More on this: [VIDEO] Joho lectures Uhuru on hijacking Mombasa projects