Garissa woman representative Shukran Gure has expressed confidence she will be reelected. Let s meet at the ballot. I m sure of emerging victorious, especially now that I have become an experienced politician, she said.The race has attracted five hopefuls, who are keen on wresting the seat from the incumbent. They are Fatuma Kinsi, Amina Keynan, Mariam Sheikh, Abla Sahal and Annab Subbow. Campaigns have intensified.Gure on Saturday said in 2013 she had not mastered the art of politics and never campaigned vigorously. But now I have what it takes to retain the seat easily, she said.Gure spoke at her Garissa office, where she flagged off 65 water tanks to be distributed to Dadaab residents.She took a swipe at her rivals, whom she accused of maligning her.Gure said politics is not about name-calling and told her rivals to come up with well-defined manifestos to convince voters about what they intend to do. She said the electorate uses manifestos as scorecards and it is only by having them that there can be meaningful competition. I know my political nemeses have been moving round the county, trying to discredit me and feeding the public with all manner of lies that I have misused the Affirmative Action Fund, she said. My free advice to them is that doing so will not get them any votes. Instead, they should concentrate on selling their agenda. Gure termed false rumours doing the rounds that elders of her Aulian clan have a preferred candidate and have prevailed upon her to step down in her favour.The Northeastern counties have adopted negotiated democracy. However, some leaders have rubbished it, saying it deprives voters of their free will to elect leaders. To the best of my knowledge, the community elders have not met to endorse a candidate for the seat. Neither have they asked me to step down, she said.Kinsi and Keynan are from the Samawadhal clan. Like Gure, Mariam and Sahal are from the Aulihan clan.Annab Subow is the sole hopeful from the Abduwak clan.In 2013, Gure ran on the Wiper ticket and emerged tops with 33,850. Her closest rival Shamsa Abdikadir of URP garnered 21,000 votes.Gure urged residents to vote her back, adding that clan or party affiliations should not be used as a yardstick to determine the best person for the job. She said she has succeeded in uniting communities in Garissa town.The county MP said anybody questioning how she has spent AAF should seek answers from relevant offices, or, better still, ask her in person, instead of spreading lies.