ODM's plan to hold a rally parallel to Jubilee s in Mombasa on Sunday went into disarray after police reportedly declined to offer security.Mohamed Hatimy, the party's Mombasa chairman, claimed on Saturday that police refused to take their notification letter.Hatimy said the officers told them they would only guard President Uhuru Kenyatta s rally at Tononoka grounds.He said the ruling Jubilee Party was behind the hurdle. We were first to organise a rally. We had scheduled it even before the Governor (Hassan Joho) jetted back, he said, adding the police action was unconstitutional. Does this mean that no other functions can take place in Mombasa because the President is around? County commissioner Evans Achoki could not be reached for comment.Joho was to lead the ODM rally at Mvita grounds, which a 10-minute drive from Tononoka. Both meetings were to begin at 2pm.Read: Tononoka rally will start Mombasa liberation from Joho's 'Sultan' rule - Shahbal teamHatimy, a Nominated MCA, said they would hold an emergency meeting for deliberations.Regarding fears that chaos would erupt if both rallies took place, he said: We don t want to take any risk. Our opponents may use the opportunity to attack then blame us."Uhuru and Joho, who is ODM deputy leader, have been feuding. Joho has severely attacked the President and blamed the government for the withdrawal of his security guards.There is also animosity between Jubilee s and ODM supporters in ODM and this has been worsened by their leaders' fights.Shahbal, who is Uhuru s point man in Mombasa, denied any involvement. That s pure propaganda and bullshit. They are just crying babies who are playing victim and seeking attention, he said.Shahbal said ODM did not have to organise its rally "at 5 pm .Joho announced on a live TV interview on Thursday that he would hold a rally on Sunday but critics have said the move was aimed at "overshadowing" the President s event.This is not the first time Jubilee and ODM have clashed or held counter events.When the Jubilee campaign team for the Coast was launched at Tononoka last November, ODM allegedly hurriedly organised another rally in Mtwapa on the same day.When Jubilee Party was launched at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi, ODM held its '10th anniversary' celebrations in Mombasa but the party was formed a week earlier than the September 10 date. Each side claimed equal share of live coverage. When Jubilee branded its 47 SUVs with its colours, ODM legislators and supporters branded their vehicles with ODM colours.Read: ODM marks 10 years, aims to reassert might, fight JubileeAlso read: ODM flexes muscles with Jubilee, to flag off 47 buses ahead of anniversary