Musalia Mudavadi is the only unifying force among the four NASA leaders. I have known Musalia as a sober person who takes time to think over an issue and is never quick to rush to a decision.And he means well for every Kenyan. One of the things I know and believe in is that under his leadership we can never have issues of people fighting one another. He can never advocate that people fight or insult one another. The politics of insults are not in his nature.He has a lot of appeal and acceptance around the country. We went with him across the country during the presidential campaigns and although the people did not vote for him per se, he was accepted and well received everywhere.You feel safe near him Musalia, you feel secure with him and you know you can't go wrong as a country. I am trying to talk of a person who I worked with. Musalia is a very honest person; perhaps this is his undoing in politics &ndash; his honesty as compared and contrasted with the vast political dishonesty issues of his rivals in NASA.Musalia is a leader who detests sycophancy. He himself is not sycophantic, unlike those other fellows. He is not vengeful at all, unlike other people who would want to do anything to avenge themselves against very large and very numerous groups of people. He would want us to focus on the future and how we can move on by doing things differently to current the situation.The floodgates will open if Musalia is made flagbearer.But when you ask people, and because he is not so aggressive, they want to hold back and say, 'let us wait and see&rsquo;. If he is put forward and the people say &lsquo;this is our choice&rsquo;, the whole of NASA will be more solid than it is now. If Raila were to say &lsquo;I am backing Musalia&rsquo;, then he would end up having more numbers than Raila's. This is because Raila has numbers that cannot grow.The only person who can grow the numbers on their side is Musalia. If they choose Raila, the numbers will not grow and he will end up with the same numbers he had in 2013.With Musalia, there will be a natural flow of numbers to NASA.Mudavadi&rsquo;s 2013 running mate and now aspirant for Ndaragwa MP