The alliance between the Abduwak and the Samawadhal in Garissa is not meant to exclude other communities, governor aspirant Ali Korane has said. He dismissed rumours that his administration will exclude Governor Nathif Jama’s Aulian community. There has been panic following rumours that Korane would kick out Nathif's supporters from parts of Garissa town and lock them out of his administration. But Korane on Saturday said, “This alliance is not based on exclusion of anybody. The county belongs to all. There are other clans, people and interested parties. They will all get their share of the government.” He was addressing residents who had gathered in Masalani Stadium on Saturday during the official formalisation of the Telamuge Alliance. The alliance was formed at a Nairobi hotel late last year in a negotiated democracy deal. The Samawadhal community was given the Senate seat and deputy governor position while the Abduwak got the governor and woman representative seats. The Masalani Declaration meeting was attended by National Assembly leader Aden Duale, Senator Yusuf Haji, Ijara MP Ibrahim Abass, Fafi's Barre Shill and former Chief of General Staff Gen (Rtd) Mohamud Mohamed. They said they would rally supporters to vote for the hopeful fronted by the alliance and the Jubilee Party. Duale on Saturday hit out at Nathif, saying he has failed the people of Garissa. The Garissa Town MP said it would be catastrophic to reelect Nathif. Korane said he will strive to unite all communities. “As you all know a house starts with a foundation. It is by the design of God that these people [Abduwak and Samwadhal] are related and this is where we have decided to start," he said. "But does that not mean that we are going to exclude anybody from this government. We will absorb all irrespective of their faith or clan.” Korane said Jama’s administration has failed. “There is nothing absolutely right with this government, at all. The biggest handicap is corruption. All the resources that come to this county, there is not a single project which can be shown [to have] been completed,” he said.  