Insecurity is the key campaign agenda in Laikipia, as seven aspirants seek to unseat Governor Joshua Irungu.They are former Foreign Affairs Permanent Secretary Thuita Mwangi, Deputy Governor Gitonga Kabugi, businessman Mburu Kamau, former county secretary John Mwaniki, James Mathenge, former Laikipia West MP Ndiritu Muriithi and Mwangi Woodboy. It is a men affair.Kamau and Muriithi lost to Irungu in 2013.Since late last year, Laikipia county has been in the news over rising insecurity, which has resulted in deaths, destruction of property and displacement of people.Migrant herders searching for pasture and water have been blamed for rising crime, as banditry and farm and ranchesh invasions get out of hand. Armed cattle herders in search of grazing land, have driven tens of thousands of cattle onto private farms and ranches. At least a dozen people have been killed.The most recent victim was Tristan Voorspuy, a British army veteran who held dual Kenyan and British citizenship, and ran Offbeat Safaris Company. Consequently, Britain gave a travel advisory to Laikipia on March 15.&ldquo;The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all but essential travel,&rdquo; the British High Commission advisory stated.Some blame the clashes on political incitement and interest in the &lsquo;idle land&rsquo; that herders have been invading. On March 7, the government declared seven areas in Laikipia county &ldquo;dangerous and disturbed&rdquo; following persistent and tragic raids. These are Rumuruti, Ol Moran, Kirimon, Ng&rsquo;arua (Mithiga and Matuiku locations), Marmanet (Salama location), Segera and Mukogodo East divisions.Dealing with the insecurity will thus shape the outcome of the race for governor in the county, which has over 173,000 voters.Other than Muriithi, all the other aspirants are seeking the Jubilee Party ticket. He will stand on the PNU ticket. Muriithi, a former assistant minister for Industrialisation, has however pledged to campaign for the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta.Although the politicians have intensified their campaigns, none has announced his running mate. As a result, residents are pressuring them to name their deputies so they can size up the line-ups.Joseph Gachagua, former Kalalu Secondary School principal and a hopeful for Umande ward has mounted a social media campaign to pressure them to name their running mates.Irungu is banking on his efforts in dairy farming and production, where he has installed milk coolers in Muhotetu, Wiyumiririe, Nyambogichi and Kinamba.His challengers have promised to end insecurity, improve roads, education and promote cohesion among different communities living in the county.Leaders and local residents have been agitating for more police officers and National Police Reservists to contain insecurity.Deputy Governor Kabugi will have it hard convincing voters reject Irungu&rsquo;s administration, while he has served in the same government.Having failed to capture the Laikipia East parliamentary seat in 2007, Kabugi unsuccessfully vied for governor in 2013. Although he lost in the nominations, Irungu named him his running mate.They fell out almost immediately after the general election, with Kabugi accusing the governor of spending &ldquo;Sh12m a day on errands that had no impact&rdquo;.Mwangi&rsquo;s chances hang in the balance, following an appeal by the Director of Public Prosecution on the Tokyo embassy corruption case. Mwangi and two others were acquitted of all charges in relation to the embassy scam. In the ruling, a Nairobi court said the prosecution had failed to prove the case against the three. The former PS had been charged alongside former Ambassador to Libya Anthony Muchiri and former charg&eacute; d&rsquo;affaires in Tokyo Allan Mburu.A section of residents say Mwangi, who comes from Laikipia West, is not close to the common mwanachi, and he may not fully understand their problems having worked and lived most of his life in Nairobi.Some parts of Laikipia, especially East and North, are arid and semi-arid, and residents depend on relief from the national government and other donor agencies. This, compounded with constant wildlife invasion into small-scale farms, has been a recurrent problem. Water shortage is another problem in most areas. This is despite politicians promising mega dams downstream rivers from Mt Kenya and Aberdare forests.The major contest is expected to be between Laikipia West and Laikipia East constituencies, with the former having more voters.Initially, Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, who lost in 2013, had shown interest in the seat but was prevailed upon by President Uhuru Kenyatta not to vie.Incidentally, his close allies and campaigners have shifted camp to Irungu, indicating Kiunjuri might be supporting his reelection.Word has it that since Irungu is seen to be a weak politician, Kiunjuri might back him so that he should not face a strong candidate in 2022 if he vies.In the Senate race, ex-Mungiki leader Maina Njenga, who made a 4-hour defection to Kanu and made a surprise return to Jubilee on Wednesday, will take on veteran politician Senator GG Kariuki.Kariuki has said he will seek reelection, resign halfway and advise the people of Laikipia on whom to elect as his successor.Others in the race are Samwel Kabuchwa, an assistant clerk at the county assembly, businessmen Simon Mithamo, Douglas Kiguru, Laikipia Kuppet executive secretary Ndung&rsquo;u Wangenye and bishop Weston Gitonga.At the constituency level, Laikipia North will be the main focus as nominated MP Sarah Lekorere (Jubilee) seeks to unseat Mathew Lempurkel (ODM). Tribal politics will also play out in the area with the entry of Maina Munene. The constituency is largely seen as a pastoralists&rsquo; area. James Lowasa, an administrator in Isiolo county&rsquo;s health docket will vie on the PNU ticket. He is seen as banking on the Turkana communityvote.In Laikipia West, the entry of assembly speaker Patrick Mariru has caused jitters. About 13 people have declared interest in the seat currently held by Wachira Karani.In Laikipia East, former CDF chairman Mohammed Amin will square it off with his former patron Mutahi Kimaru. Kimaru, a former principal at Garisson Secondary School and the chairman of the then Laikipia Teachers Sacco, has said once elected, he will prioritise education.Micheal Waigwa, who vied for the seat in 2007 but lost to Kiunjuri, is also in the race.A section of residents in the county have expressed their dissatisfaction in the management of county resources. The purchase of four sniffer dogs will be the major undoing of Irungu.Bishop Simon Ndegwa of the Full Faith Gospel Ministry says there has been a lot of bias in allocation of resources.&ldquo;Although people expected change through devolution, that has not happened. The institutions are okay but the holders are biased,&rdquo; Ndegwa said.