The second and last mass voter registration ahead of the August polls increased the number of registered voters to slightly above 18 million.Taking into account the registration of voters after the 2013 general elections, the IEBC projected that approximately 5.2 million new voters will be added to the voter&rsquo;s register. As these numbers increase and as the people take keen interest in democratic elections, credibility questions are emerging. Right from the party primaries due in a month&rsquo;s time to the general elections coming up in six months, aspirants and voters are not sure whether the electioneering process will be free and fair.Reports of aspirants buying party tickets, bribing voters and ultimately interfering with the electoral processes, as well as the vulnerability of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission need to be thought through, with a view of fixing these issues once and for all. The best way forward would be a multi-sectoral approach, with each and every player in the electioneering processes establishing and adhering to best practices.Political parties should have clearly laid down nomination procedures that all aspirants and party members adhere to. They should equally spell out how they will enforce their own rules and procedures of nominations for them to earn voter confidence.The second major player in the election is the IEBC.The commission is said to have hinged the ongoing preparations for the August elections on modern technology, with discussions about electronic and manual back up taking centre stage in the recent past. With the advent of technology and Kenya listed amongst the most tech-savvy nations in Africa, embracing technology not only makes electioneering work easy but precise, efficient and effective. The beginning point for any credible elections is accurate data of the voters. That&rsquo;s is why the voter registration exercise that ended last month.Then comes party primaries which give each aspirant a fighting chance to become the party flagbearer at whatever level they are vying. Each party has its own elections board but in most instances lack capacity to conduct free fair nominations. What we then end up with is favouritism and primaries debacles, which end up handing the the wrong people nomination certificates &mdash; mostly those with lots of money to bribe for the tickets. This role cannot be passed onto IEBC as proffered by the Jubilee Party. This is because the commission has a higher calling of overseeing the general election in a manner that should not be perceived to be nonpartisan.Thus, IEBC with its new commissioners should not take up the role of superintending the party primaries, when they are still expected to be arbiters in elections disputes. The gap in the elections in this country created by inefficiencies in political parties as well as reliance on the IEBC, which itself has credibility issues needs to be addressed.Comparative study into how other elections are conducted elsewhere reveal that the electioneering processes today has not only been digitised but it has also been opened up to consultancy services from professional organisations.And since elections play an integral part in people&rsquo;s lives &mdash; elevating few elected to represent the masses at various levels &mdash; there is need for a deliberate investment in electoral processes, to guarantee the best outcomes for the electorate. Emerging democracies in Africa, Kenya included, have tried to streamline their electoral processes but there remains much more to be done to ensure that elections are not just free and fair but tamper-proof to reflect the aspirations of the populace.Scytl in Netherlands for instance has carried out elections for corporates, saccos, religious institutions as well as party primaries with high levels of credibility.Closer home, there is an organisation duly registered in Kenya called Right Elections, whose mandate is to strengthen electoral practice locally based on internationally acclaimed practices and standards. This is an independent Elections Management Body which provides a comprehensive set of election resources to assist local and international organisations in effectively managing and administering polls.This agency has the latest state-of-the-art technology, which is able to deliver credible elections at whatever scale. Hinged on modern technology and reliance on telecommunication and satellite technology, Right Elections promises to revolutionise Kenyan elections and restore faith amongst the electorate both at national, corporate and group levels when it comes to elections.If anybody Kenya thinks of maintaining voter confidence through enhanced voting experience Rights Election is the body. This organisation has been set out to achieve better elections by eradicating malpractices, providing hands on experience and practice in handling of elections. It seek to improve the electoral process by promoting best practices in the entire discourse of election management, administration and observation.In conclusion, it is important to bear in mind that every credible vote counts towards restoring the much needed peace and stability which forms the bedrock of development. If the IEBC, political parties, organisations, saccos and other membership groups, which conduct election cannot assure their members of free and fair elections, time has come to think outside the box. Just as we have private institutions such hospitals, schools, and companies among other institutions serving the public in this country and across the globe, the world is fast embracing private management of elections to guarantee credible results.It is time party election boards invite private arbitrators to resolve these issues once and for all.