The US Federal Reserve meets this week and a rate hike of 25 basis points is fully priced in. The US interest rate curve has been backing right up with US three-month Libor ending the week at a 94-month high: 1.12 per cent. Most economists feel the FED is way behind the curve, and this is evidenced by the gap between the federal funds rate and the cost of money indicated by the Taylor rule at more than three points, the widest since 1977. George Soros wrote his seminal book Staying ahead both Curve and every bond trader wants to be ahead of and not behind the curve, as I suspect all of us want to be in our lives, as well. The US economy is ''blowing hot'' and the rate hike this week is expected to be a part of a series of rate hikes. It is this higher rate structure which is underpinning the dollar.A stronger dollar tends to puncture commodity prices and over the last few sessions, we have seen both blow-outs and slow punctures in this space. Crude-oil sank below $50.00 in New York to close at December lows of $48.75 a barrel. OPEC, which is led by Saudi Arabia, had been on a Kamikazi mission to destroy the Shale Boys by pumping up the volume in 2015 and 2016 before doing a 360 degree turn in Q4 16, and dialing down the volume. The problem is that Shale has been able to turn up its volume by more than OPEC can turn its down. It's a delicious catch-22.OPEC's braggadocio had veiled this reality but last week crude oil crashed as the markets lifted the veil and OPEC was found to be General Butt Naked (for reasons of accuracy, Joshua Milton Blahyi better known by his nom de guerre General Butt Naked, is a former commander of forces under the wider control of Liberian warlord Roosevelt Johnson). It surely suits President Trump's MAGA Agenda to encourage the Shale Folks to turn it up some more. This price trend, which I expect to accelerate, is set to put breaking-point pressure on oil producers. The Treasuries in Riyadh, Luanda, Caracas and in so many places had been betting on a price rebound (by borrowing more). I believe we had a Wizard of Oz like lifting the curtain moment for OPEC last week. ''It s Like Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. When Dorothy s world ended in a terrible storm, she found herself beginning a great adventure. She went looking for the fabled wizard in the Land of Oz who was going to solve all of her problems and save the world. But when she got to the Land of Oz and found the wizard, she discovered that behind the great curtain there was a scared little man. OPEC is that ''scared little man''. Gold traded below $1,200 last week and is expected to move decisively towards $1,150.00.00This week the European election season kicks off in earnest in Europe with the Dutch parliamentary elections. President Erdogan once again proved himself a tremendous and quality asset for the European far-right. The dispute between Turkey and the Netherlands hit a new low Sunday, with a Turkish minister escorted out of the country as persona non grata, less than a day after Turkey's foreign minister was denied entry, prompting President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to call the Dutch "Nazi remnants". The diplomatic standoff was over plans by Turkish government officials to campaign in the Netherlands for a referendum back home. Family and Social Policies minister Fatma Betel Sayan Kaya had arrived in the country from Germany, but was prevented from entering Turkey's diplomatic compound in Rotterdam, setting up an extraordinary standoff with armed police. She was later sent under escort back to Germany. The direction of travel the world over has been in the populist direction from Brexit to Trump and Geert Wilders surely will post his Freedom party's best result ever and the Turks will surely have juiced that some more. We then have an election in France where Marine Le-Pen and her Front Nacional are fighting for the keys to the Elysee Palace and the French Presidency. And later in the year we go to Germany. The Right has the wind in its sails but in Europe the elections are not of the winner takes all variety. It would require a very big tide a Tsunami even to carry Gert, Marine and others into power. The Euro, counterintuitively might rally ''bigly'' if a coalition blocks Gert in the Netherlands and the French second round vote blocks Le-Pen.Here in Africa, Nigerian President Muhammad Buhari returned after a 50-day ''medical leave'' and interestingly left his Deputy Professor Yemi Osinbajo in charge, a decision which was probably informed by events around the return of former President Umaru Yar'Adua from Saudi Arabia in February 2010. President Yar'Adua was returned in an ambulance and kept alive on the grounds of the Aso Villa and in an Intensive Care Unit. Osinbajo has moved with precision and some smoothness and even got a hearty congratulatory birthday note from the ''feisty'' and admirable Aisha Buhari. Osinbajo has loosened the forex controls around the Naira and given my outlook for oil prices, the moment is now upon Nigeria as to whether they own the process around the Naira devaluation (it is inevitable) or the moment owns them. Osinbajo should have Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi on speed dial (Egypt devalued and the world did not end) and get on with things.I was in Lusaka this weekend and it was greener than an Augusta green. The South of Africa has had its best rains in years. When Agriculture does well, African economies tend to hum. I expect SADC growth to outperform in 2017.