The Jubilee Party, once the underdog in coastal politics, is increasingly gaining ground in a region that has voted for the opposition since the 2007 election. The party s rise in this politically hostile region is, in part, attributed to the recent wave of defections by popular politicians from the leading party ODM.More than half a dozen politicians quit ODM to join the party of government. They include Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto, National Executive Committee member Grace Mboja and Senate aspirant Kenneth Nyale.Further south in Kwale, former diplomat and long-serving politician Chirau Mwakwere joined Wiper, despite expectations that he would join ODM, the most popular party in the county. Before that Mwakwere had received a triumphal welcome from ODM luminaries upon his return to the county from Tanzania, where he served as ambassador.In Taita Taveta county, another ODM zone, woman representative Joyce Lay quit ODM to run for senator on the JP ticket. She was joined in the bandwagon by Senator Dan Mwazo, who left ODM to join Wiper.The exodus from ODM had begun earlier. In 2016 another half-a-dozen politicians defected to the government party. They included Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, woman representative Zainab Chidzuga, Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung aro and his Kilifi South counterpart Mustafa Idd.They all accused ODM leaders of dictatorship and intolerance.The wave of defections from a popular party ODM has perplexed political watchers who have long held the view that the Coast belonged to the opposition. Several explanations may account for ODM s gradual decline.The first is the fear of unfair party nominations. Despite assurances from ODM leaders that the primaries will be free, fair, transparent and credible, potential aspirants remain skeptical. This is because in the past, and in particular in the lead-up to the March 4, 2013 general election, and in the March 2016 Malindi by-election, nomination certificates were openly given to the losers and denied the winners.The second explanation is the fear to compete for nominations in a crowded field of the strongest party, which almost guarantees election victory after the primaries. There is a joke doing the rounds at the Coast that in ODM, only the strong and most popular politicians survive; the weak defect to other parties.The third explanation for the wave of defections is the assumption that JP is financially loaded and is able to finance candidates to victory.But it is JP s promise of jobs for election losers that has created a sensation among Coast politicians. According to JP leaders, those who will lose in the primaries but continue to support the winners will be rewarded with jobs if it forms the next government. Many of the JP aspirants at the Coast consider the offer the opportunity of a lifetime.The big question remains whether or not the rush to JP will translate into votes. This is the pending work for the JP brigade led by, among others, Mung aro, Mombasa county s Suleiman Shahbal, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Taita Taveta MP Naomi Shaban. They are among the JP drum majors.Certainly, it shall be an uphill battle to deliver JP votes at the Coast, in part because JP is still perceived as an anti-devolution party and because of the continued marginalisation of coastal communities. Should JP leaders succeed to reverse these perceptions, the ground shall be ripe for them to beat the drums for the government party.If JP wins the Coast vote on August 8, it shall alter the political face of this region. For the first time since the dissolution of the Independence opposition party Kadu in 1964, JP shall have driven coastal communities to the party of government.The winners win, the losers lose.