Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has made changes in his cabinet after three executives quit to join politics.Executive Hamisi Mwaguya (Trade), Mohamed Abbas (Sports and Culture) and Mohamed Abdi of Health will be running for political seats.Both Abbas and Mwaguya want to run for Mombasa Senate. Senator Hassan Omar is running for governor.Abdi is eyeing the Mandera North parliamentary seat in Northeastern. Already elders have endorsed him. He will run on the be Jubilee Party ticket.In the new alignment, Tourism executive Binty Omar will double as acting executive in charge of Health.Binty earlier worked in the Health sector. Transport executive Taufiq Balala will double as executive in charge of Trade, Energy and Industry.Finance executive Hazel Koitaba will be executive in charge of Sports to replace Abbas.Koitaba had served in the Sports docket before. Critics say the added duties on the executives will hurt services. They argue executives holding two dockets will be overwhelmed. They say there will be more focus on politics, at the expense of services.It is said the new appointments of the county executive are political and aimed at bringing closer all people who worked with Joho in 2013.In 2015, then two executives, Joab Tumbo (Tourism) and Francis Thoya (Lands), were transferred to other departments. Tumbo was the chairman of Joho&rsquo;s campaign team and Thoya was head of communicationsJoho had demoted Tumbo to adviser to the Water Security and Climate Change Resilience Project and promoted Thoya to county secretary.Thoya has, however, has not been seen in his office.There are concerns Joho will lose the Luo vote for moving Tumbo from executive to adviser.In a 2015 reshuffle, the governor sent two senior officers on leave but did not disclose why.Abbas resignsAbbas resigned last month as Sports executive.He was the first to relinquish his post among aspirants who want to take over from Senator Omar. Abbas has urged residents to support him and launched a door-to-door campaign.Abbas has criticised Omar&rsquo;s of leadership, saying he has failed to defend Mombasa in the national government.&ldquo;A senator&rsquo;s role is to work hand in hand with a governor. But in Mombasa, we saw a senator who was always criticising the county leadership,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;...he (Omar) failed to secure billions for this region,&rdquo; Abbas said. He served as Transport executive before being transferred to the youth docket.He said Mombasa, despite being number two in revenue contribution to the National Treasury, is 23rd in terms of distribution of resources from the national government. &ldquo;We are the second best in revenue contribution towards the Treasury, but we have been getting only Sh5.3 billion from the same government,&rdquo; Abbas said.&ldquo;Kilifi and Kwale counties, which are not near us in terms of revenue generation, have been getting a larger share,&rdquo; he added. Abbas argued that Omar forgot his role and became absorbed in anti-Joho campaigns, instead of pushing for equitable resources to the county.&ldquo;As a senator, I will continue advocating for youth employment in this region by pushing for more resources,&rdquo; he said