I have a coffee pot that I bought in Italy. Most Italian households have one, made by Bialetti. It&rsquo;s a simple affair: you put water in the bottom and coffee grounds in the middle. Then you put it on the hob for a few minutes and the boiling water passes through the coffee grounds to fill the top of the pot with hot, fresh coffee. There&rsquo;s a little safety valve in case you overfill it. And the only way for the brew to fail is when you allow it to overcook.Producing delicious coffee is almost guaranteed. Pouring it, however, is anything but. I would guess that three times out of five I make a mess on the table. This is not through my own carelessness. Knowing that pouring neatly is a challenge, I have developed strategies to optimise my performance. I hold the pot at a certain angle &ndash; a combination of X- and Y-axis known only to me &ndash; and I judge it by eye. Like Jack Swigert flying the crippled Apollo 13 into a perfect re-entry, it&rsquo;s an entirely analogue procedure. Yet I crash and burn on a regular basis.When I ask my (Italian) friends why the Bialetti should be so hit and miss they say: &lsquo;Because it&rsquo;s Italian! It looks great, it makes great coffee so it&rsquo;s unreasonable to expect it to be perfect in every way all the time.&rsquo;Like pouring coffee from my Bialetti, I have realised that building a perfect company culture is an impossible task. And that is something that even the most controlling CEO needs to accept. The more controlling you are (the more you try to adjust the angle of pouring), the more likely you are to fail.That&rsquo;s because companies are comprised of those quirky entities we call human beings. Each one with his or her own hopes, fears and opinions. Each one entitled to vary any of those dimensions almost daily. Try controlling that and you will end up in the madhouse.To maintain the right perspective, I always return to the original meaning of the word company. It has its origins in the old French military term compaignie, first recorded in 1150 and meaning a body of soldiers. Before that, from the Latin word companio (companion - one who eats bread with you). So, the idea of collaboration - the daily sharing of the hardships and staples of life with others - is fundamental to a proper understanding of the concept. It was only applied to &lsquo;business association&rsquo; in 1530.It&rsquo;s time to wake up and smell the coffee. Culture is collaborative &ndash; it can&rsquo;t be controlled.Chris Harrison leads The Brand Inside.