The Nyamira governor gover race will be a battle of bright minds as professionals and academicians seek to unseat incumbent incumbent John Nyagarama of ODM.These include retired judge David Onyancha, Prof Vincent Nyatigo, Prof Thomas Getabu, Dr Erneo Nyakiba (Kanu), Dr Samuel Kumenda and Dr James Gesami, who is the current MP for West Mugirango. Others are Charles Mochama, former Kitutu Masaba MPs Mwancha Okioma (Ford People) and Walter Nyambati, Evans Nyatigo and Tom Tito. Senator Kennedy Mong&rsquo;are dropped his bid and will stand for President.Governor Nyagarama&rsquo;s performance, especially in his development record is the main agenda that aspirants are campaigning on.Some of the areas his challengers feel the governor has failed include infrastructure, education, health and agriculture.Other factors that will determine who will win the August 8 polls are clannism and party politics.CORD/ODM POLITICSNyamira is currently perceived to be a Cord zone but those vying on other parties such as Mochama, who is in the Jubilee Party, think otherwise.Mochama says although the county was Corded in 2013, this has since changed because Jubilee has made inroads. President Uhuru Kenyatta visited the county in April last year, when launched several projects in the predominantly opposition region, and pledged to work with local leaders. Nyagarama will face Gesami and Kumenda in the ODM party primaries. Gesami has the support of MPs Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Charles Geni (North Mugirango) and Woman representative Alice Chae. They have been fierce critics of Nyagarama&rsquo;s leadership style despite being in the same party.Just like those who have worked with Nyagarama before, the MPs accuse him of clannism, running a one-man show and ignoring the advice of his advisers, other than those from his clan.US-based educationist Evans has held rallies at shopping centres and told residents he will offer alternative leadership, and accused the Nyagarama government of poor service delivery.&ldquo;The people of Nyamira have not tasted the fruits of devolution. If elected, I assure you of fair and prudent use of resources in order to transform your lives,&rdquo; he said.He also pledged expanded democratic space to residents, adding that effective services and participation in governance would enable them realise the dream of devolution.Nyamira, which has an estimated population of 600, 000, has 219, 358 registered voters in the latest IEBC records.The battle for governor will go down to the four constituencies in the county &mdash; West Mugirango, North Mugirango, Borabu and Kitutu Masaba.ACCUSATIONS AGAINST NYAGARAMAAspirants also accuse him of favouritism in employment.For instance, Nyakiba, who was governor Nyagarama&rsquo;s chief of staff said he joined the race after he realised the latter employed divide-and-rule tactics to run the county. IRREGULAR RECRUITMENTThe aspirants are using the skewed hiring of 44 employees in the Gender and Social Services department, which was a higher higher number than advertised.In a memo dated October 16, 2016, Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo wrote to the county Public Service Board chairman Robert Mochache and suspended the recruitment over the complaints raised by the public. In the memo, Nyaribo said the recruitment was illegal because only 20 vacancies were available and 44 people ended up being employed. He said eight positions of principal cultural and 11 others of cultural officers were needless. He said the employment did not observe regional balance because while one ward had five slots, others had none. That a single subcounty had 14 employees while others had an average of eight. He also pointed out that all directors and their deputies are from two regions.Nyaribo acknowledged allegations of f corruption, nepotism and clannism, which &ldquo;resulted in people being awarded grades and positions they did not qualify for&rdquo;.Hopefuls are also expected to criticise the governor over the employment of about 1,000 enforcement officers, 750 higher than the 250 who were required. The county assembly in September 2014 suspended the employment of subcounty and ward administrators, citing massive irregularities. The assembly unanimously passed a motion by Majority leader James Mating&rsquo;a to suspend the recruitment, and formed a committee to investigate the conduct of the county Public Service Board officials. The motion followed a public outcry that the recruitment exercise was flawed.The irregular employment has since attracted the attention of the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission,whose officers visited the county to gather evidence.The aspirants will attack Nyagarama citing nepotism in his administration. There are accusations he has employed his relatives and close friends. It is this imbalance in employment that they have been using to discredit him during their campaigns, and it is only expected to intensify as the August polls get closer.The tea industry will also form the agenda in the campaigns, again, with Nyagarama on the receiving end on what he has done to improve the farmers&rsquo; welfare. Tea is one of the main economic drivers in the county.Farmers complain that their produce take long to reach factories because of impassable roads, thus making them lose millions. There are also issues in dairy farming because the county has failed to provide milk cooling machines as it promised.NYAGARAMA&rsquo;S DEFENCEIn his defence, Governor Nyagarama, says he has constructed many roads, which have made it easy for farmers to transport their produce to the market. On health, the county has build a number of dispensaries, among them a new ward block in Magombo which was opened on February 2.In education the county has built a number of ECDE centres, among themIbara, Nyagocho, Nyambogo and Makairo. The county government has also built Amariba and Kiogutwa Vocational Training Centres. Some 26 workshops have also been constructed.Kumenda, Justice Onyancha, Misati, Okioma Gesami have promised residents that if elected, they will end nepotism.