Hundreds of Jubilee Party aspirants, led by Suleiman Shahbal and Ananiah Mwaboza, turned up to inspect Tononoka grounds on Saturday ahead of the party's grand rally on Sunday.Shahbal will vie against Governor Hassan Joho in the August 8 with Mwaboza as his running mate.More on this: [VIDEO] Ruto declares Shahbal Jubilee candidate to vie against Joho, Mwaboza running matePresident Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are expected to lead the meeting which Shahbal said will be "the mother of all rallies". It will be the beginning of the change we have been waiting for in Mombasa. We are staring at the final liberation of Mombasa. We are getting rid of all the nonsense, he said after the inspection which supporters also attended.The politician added that residents were tired of "politics of dancing and insulting national leaders".Opposition leader Raila Odinga's ODM party expected to hold a parallel rally at Mvita grounds led by Joho. ODM Mombasa chair Mohammed Hatimy confirmed the venue on Saturday and said they had agreed on everything else. Plans are going on well," he said and promised a full report.Read: Raila declares vote-hunting war, says Nasa will raid more Jubilee zonesJubilee Party politicians Ananiah Mwaboza and Suleiman Shahbal during the inspection of Tononoka grounds ahead of Jubilee Party's grand rally, March 11, 2017. /BRIAN OTIENOBut Shahbal dismissed the ODM meeting saying it would have no effect on Jubilee's. Let them hold their rally. We have no problem with that. They can even hold 10 rallies. Last time we held a rally here, the whole of Mombasa attended," he said. They went and held their mini-rally in Mtwapa and claimed it was a parallel rally. We don t care about their music and noise."He said Jubilee was engaging in politics of development and creating jobs for thousands of idle youths in the county. If this man [Joho] cannot do it, let him pack his bags and go. It is time for change. Mombasa should lead from the front, not the back, said Shahbal.Joho was not immediately available for comment and Richard Chacha, county communications director, declined to comment.Mwaboza said their team was ready to end Joho's "oppressive Sultan leadership".He said the President's party had significantly eroded ODM support in Mombasa and that the county was slowly but surely turning into a Jubilee zone. Selling Joho in Mombasa today is like selling pigs in Mecca, he said."Those who keep saying Coast is 'Corded' should continue dreaming until the Jubilee Tsunami sweeps the region starting tomorrow."But Raila said political zoning was no longer the case in Kenya and the people are more enlightened, and that politicians can hunt for votes in any region.Mwaboza criticised the Governor saying he has been wasting the Sh4 billion Mombasa has been getting since 2013 and turned to asking why Nairobi gets more. What will Lamu people, who get Sh2.8 billion say? If he cannot effectively utilise Sh4 billion, will he manage Sh5 billion or more? posed Mwaboza.The career lawyer further said Jubilee leaders in Mombasa will not be biased towards any race, tribe, religion or social status. We are not seeing that in Mombasa at the moment, he said.Shahbal and Mwaboza said they will scrutinise and eventually cancel the controversial Sh200 billion housing project proposed by Joho s administration should they take over power.Read: Sh200 billion Mombasa housing project to proceed, rules High Court[VIDEO] Joho lectures Uhuru on hijacking Mombasa projectsAmong politicians who went for the inspection were Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima, Jomvu MCA Karisa Nzai and his Ganjoni counterpart Nassir Rashid, who has decamped from ODM.Others were Kenya Ferry Services chairman Ramadhan Kajembe, Mvita MP hopefuls Mohamed Tenge Salim and Omar Shalo and Changamwe MP hopefuls Abdi Daib and Kibwana Abdallah.Also present were Senator hopefuls Abdulsalaam Kassim and Hazel Katana, Mombasa Deputy Governor, Jubilee Mombasa chair Matano Chengo, Ali Mwatsahu, among others.