Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka has urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to postpone the August election if it is not ready.He wants the electoral body to prepare adequately to avoid ruining the country.Lusaka said on Friday that there is no need of hurrying up, only to conduct a sham exercise. He spoke in Bumula constituency.&ldquo;Not that we are not ready for our opponents. We want the IEBC to take time and carry out a credible election, but not to hurry and conduct an election that may plunge the country into chaos,&rdquo; Lusaka said.He said Kenya cannot afford a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence, adding that the country is eager to have nothing but a peaceful process.Lusaka was accompanied by JP county interim chairman John Waluke, Deputy Governor Hilary Chongwony, Bumula MP Boniface Otsiula, Bungoma woman MP Reginalda Wanyonyi and a number of aspirants.Waluke promised to deliver many seats to Jubilee at the upcoming poll.The Sirisia MP said Jubilee had overtaken parties like Ford Kenya and ODM in popularity. &ldquo;People thought Jubilee will never be accepted in this county. Now we have disproved the notion,&rdquo; he said.Waluke assured all aspirants that Jubilee will conduct free and fair nominations and there is no cause for alarm.He said they will continue to popularise Jubilee through rallies.Waluke expressed satisfaction with the reception they got from residents. He said, &ldquo;We will sell our agenda in Kanduyi and Kabuchai. Already, the reception is excellent. People are tired of being outside government.&rdquo; The leaders appealed to politicians to promote peace during electioneering.On Saturday, the leaders pitched camp in Mt Elgon and Sirisia, while Bumula and Webuye West hosted them yesterday. Lusaka urged tolerance, saying people have different political ideologies and it costs nothing to listen to all sides. &ldquo;What we need to avoid is propaganda. Don&rsquo;t listen to lies. In the long-run, they end up hurting development,&rdquo; he said, during a church service at St Mary Magdalene, Kimatuni Parish, Bumula.&ldquo;We must respect each leader and different political opinions for the betterment of society. We don&rsquo;t want any uncertainties. The IEBC should not be under any form of pressure to conduct the August election.&rdquo;