KitKat fans have reacted in outrage following the news that as of next week, Nestle will replace its iconic chocolate bars with healthier versions. The new recipe KitKat with 10 per cent less sugar will be rolled out in stores nationally as of next week, erasing the existing versions forever. Nestle insists the taste will remain the same and has reassured customers the size and price will not be affected.But not everyone in convinced as dedicated supporters of the brand have hit out at the decision to alter the much-loved taste. Charlotte Hennessy posted to Twitter: "Nestle has changed the recipe for KitKat. Not a fan. That's the end of a very long relationship."Others, echoing her opinion, said they would stop buying the bars altogether. An Australian KitKat fan said: "If the taste changes, Nestle, expect us not to buy it. Stop your meddling - eE will decide the amount of sugar in our diets, not you."While one man from Manchester simply said: "Stop messing with our chocolate."Nestle said the decision had been made in a bid to cut more than 1,000 tonnes of sugar and three billion calories from the UK's diet. Their new-taste bar will have just four fewer calories (209kcal) compared to the type currently for sale (213kcal). But a spokesman said it would have less sugar and therefore be more healthier.The changes will be slowly rolled out from next week but fans can expect to stop being able to buy the original types by the end of April. Changing recipes can be a dangerous game for chocolate manufacturers and a spokesman for Nestle said they had undergone vigorous testing to ensure the taste remained the same.He said they had received no negative feedback so far but added no bars have been put on sale to the general public.The new bars will be recognisable through the updated packaging reading 'Extra Milk &amp; Cocoa'.The changes come as a wider decision by Nestle to reduce sugar by 10 per cent across its sweet and chocolate portfolio - this means consumers can expect more changes by 2018. Altering the recipe for beloved items is a risky game for as Cadbury's discovered last year.Manufacturers Mondelez announced in January 2015 it would no longer be making the famous Cadbury's Creme with Dairy Milk, but instead with &ldquo;standard cocoa mix chocolate&rdquo;. The response was telling as statistics published last year showed consumer satisfaction in the famous Easter treat had fallen. Fiona Kendrick, chairwoman and chief executive of Nestle UK and Ireland, said she was confident about the new recipe for KitKat.She said: "When we announced that we were removing some of the sugar from our confectionery, the first questions that consumers asked us were 'Are you going to make things smaller?' and 'Will it taste the same?''"I'm pleased to say that these products are the same size as the ones they are replacing and taste just as good."Milk and cocoa has formed the basis of the KitKat recipe ever since it was introduced in 1936 so, while people might have been expecting us to add something else, this is a great example of us using our strength in research and innovation to develop a great recipe that replaces sugar with a bit more of the existing, natural ingredients that people know and love."