The High Court on Friday issued an order extending receivership at collapsed Imperial Bank by a further three months. Justice George Odunga ruled orders placing the troubled IBL will remain in force for 90 days. The judge issued the orders after the bank shareholders, through lawyer Andrew Wandabwa, told court that the extension will give stakeholders an opportunity to discuss on how to revive the bank. The Central Bank of Kenya placed IBL under receivership on October 13, 2015 due to financial irregularities and malpractices that dogged the bank exposing its customers to risk of loss. The receivership period had initially been extended to April 14, 2017. The application for more time was opposed by lawyer Phillip Murgor for the Kenya Depositors Insurance Corporation. The lawyer said the receiver will use the period to engage the depositors about their payment but his request was denied. The Shareholders in February filed a contempt of court case against CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge and KDIC CEO Mahmoud Mohamed alongside board of directors, accusing them of defying a court’s directive requiring them to reveal information relating to receivership of the bank. The shareholders accused the executives of defying an order issued on June 29, 2016 that required CBK and KDIC to furnish them with information relating to the process of receivership. They also claimed that KDIC and CBK in blatant of the court’s directive issued a press release stating that a deal they had with NIC will continue. The shareholders says the move amounts to premature liquidation which the court had barred. However on Friday, KDIC filed an application seeking to stop the application filed against them. The CBK said in a statement late Friday that the ruling followed "agreement between the shareholders, Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation and Central Bank of Kenya that it was necessary for the KDIC to be accorded more time to resolve the receivership". It added: "CBK consented to this extension on the basis that it is necessary for KDIC to continue as receiver of IBL."   