I learned a bit about the Kenyan coffee sector in the past three years I have worked with farmers. A more exploited and cheated lot I have yet to encounter. Ninety-five per cent of all Kenyan coffee is sold at an auction held on Tuesdays by the Nairobi Coffee Exchange. If you ask, the auctioneer will tell you that this is a transparent mechanism to bring together coffee sellers and buyers; bids are placed and the seller accepts the offer he is pleased with &mdash; theoretically and invariably, the highest bid. However, the Kenyan auction is riddled with conflict of interest, and always has been. Save for one onerous exception, the Kenyan coffee farmer is not, by law, allowed to approach the auction directly. He must act through an appointed marketing agent who pools the coffee of many farmers and acts for them on annual contracts. Unfortunately for the farmer, the marketing agent he is likely to engage with already has his salary paid by an international commodity trading conglomerate, which also employs the major buyers attending the auction each week. Yes, you read it correctly; in Kenya the coffee farmer&rsquo;s marketing agent is invariably an employee of the buyer.The coffee farmer has been set up by law, policy and regulatory failure, as the target of a long-running racket from which escape without political will is well-nigh impossible. Behind the scenes, international commodity trading conglomerates determine how much buyers at the Nairobi Auction should offer for each bag of coffee beans, and instruct their other employee, the Marketing Agent, to accept the offer and explain to the farmer why this is the best deal obtainable. To add insult to injury, the Marketing Agent subsidiary charges the farmer a commission of 2.5 per cent of the sale price for &lsquo;market advisory services&rsquo;. With the full knowledge of the regulator, these international traders play both sides of the auction &mdash; farmer&rsquo;s adviser on sale price and buyer &mdash; thereby profiting shamelessly, while remaining out of the reach of accusation. As the farmer is exploited week in week out, the auctioneer, a government employee says nothing &mdash; only ensuring that he collects the statutory auction levy on each sale so that he can pay his own salary and kick the rest upstairs to the Coffee Directorate; the industry&rsquo;s purported regulator, his boss, and owner of the auction. As of 2016, the Auctioneer banned all but six farmers from directly offering their coffee for sale at the Auction. I once sat agog in a meeting called by the Coffee Directorate, where they explained why no farmer should be allowed access to the auction, unless he could supply 20,000 tonnes of coffee per annum. I won&rsquo;t repeat the long-winded irrational explanation but the reader should be aware that to produce such an annual volume of coffee, one would require well over 30 hectares (75 acres) of land under coffee trees; a rarity these days. Just proposing such barriers to access the auction is sufficient proof that the Coffee Directorate prefers the situation in which the farmer is forced to hire one of the Conglomerate&rsquo;s employees to be his intermediary at the auction. The coffee farmer has no alternative but to comply with this system or, despite the difficulty of doing so, try to circumvent it by directly exporting his coffee. At the same meeting, the Coffee Directorate also stated direct exports are &lsquo;dead&rsquo;, the Kenyan farmer being too unsophisticated to find buyers and complete deals for themselves.So negligent is the coffee regulator that it has even allowed the conglomerate to set up subsidiary companies which claim to finance Kenyan coffee production, but in fact are lending farmers money, at a usurious ten per cent interest monthly, primarily as a device to ring-fence coffee for their marketing agency companies. Before the farmer receives any money from the auction, the conglomerate&rsquo;s alter ego will ensure he has deducted loan repayments and milling charges owed to associated companies, a process that takes anywhere between 14 days and six months after the auction date. The 2016 Report of the Presidential Task Force on the Coffee Sub-Sector correctly identified the conflict of interest problem, but essentially left its resolution to the Coffee Directorate. The Task Force Implementation Committee is controlled by the regulator&rsquo;s bureaucrats, even though everybody knows that the Coffee Directorate currently earns more from directing every bean through the dubious auction than it ever would if the coffee farmer was free to deal in his property as Article 40 of the Constitution intended. The solution is for the policy to refocus on the Kenyan coffee farmer, the producer of what everyone else on the value chain is trading with. The focus must shift away from exploitative intermediary entrepreneurs to farmer owned entities such as KPCU, the coffee farmer&rsquo;s collective trading company established in 1945, which has been refused access to the auction by the Coffee Directorate since 2009.Expecting the Coffee Directorate, as presently constituted to reform the coffee marketing chain is fanciful. It is too compromised and conflicted. The Task Force Implementation Committee should be revamped to incorporate the KPCU and other farmer owned enterprises to secure the interest of the farmer &mdash; the hen that keeps laying the golden egg.