Eight people will challenge Governor Daniel Waithaka, among them ICDC chairman and former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Kimemia, Deputy Governor Waithaka Mwangi, Moses Kiarie-Badilisha and former executive Peter Gathimba.Others are Senator Muriuki Karue, veterinary and businessman Simon Kanyingi, former county secretary Kanja Muchina and former Kenyatta University don Wilfred Murioga.A number of factors, among them regional politics, churches, sibling rivalry, interest of sitting and aspiring MPs, political experience and wealth of the candidates, will be at play in Nyandarua governor race.Muchina will stand on the Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket, while Murioga, who has kept a low profile since he declared his interest in November last year, will contest as an independent candidate. The rest will square it in the Jubilee Party nominations.Governor Waithaka will seek reelection on based on his development record in health, agriculture, education and infrastructure, among others. His administration has, however, been accused of corruption. His fall out with his deputy, Waithaka Mwangi soon after they took office in 2013 will also work against him. He is also accused of hiring goons to heckle other leaders during public events.His support base in Ol Kalou and Ol Joro Orok has withered. This made him to appoint Gikonyo Gathimba, younger brother of governor aspirant Gathimba, to help him get the Kinangop vote. &ldquo;As an individual, Waithaka is a very good person. But he is always misled by those around him,&rdquo; a pastor, who requested anonymity, told the StarKimemia is known to be wealthy, and has a lot of experience in government. His illustrious career in government gives him an upper hand over the other aspirants. He prides himself of having both national and international exposure, with numerous connections and networks, through which, he says, he will attract investors to the county. Since he declared his interest in 2016, he has held numerous meetings with strategists and opinion leaders at the grassroots level. Through these meetings, he assembled a formidable political machine that makes him among the frontrunners.His rivals have, however, labelled him as a dictator who, if elected, will not be easily accessible by the common wananchi. Others say he will sack the majority of the county workers, most of whom are said to lack the requisite qualifications for the jobs they hold, and replace them with his cronies. Kimemia has, however, dismissed the allegations, but is firm that leaders who preside over plunder of public resources should be held accountable.Mwangi is the longest serving politician in Nyandarua, and prides himself of experience and exposure. He says Nyandarua needs a leader &ldquo;who understands dynamics of politics and can easily attract the President&rsquo;s ear&rdquo;.He believes confusion of names with governor Waithaka cost him victory during the TNA nomination in 2013.&ldquo;There are people who intended to vote for me but ended up nominating the wrong Waithaka,&rdquo; he told the Star on Saturday. To solve the identity problem, he has said his name will appear on the ballot as &ldquo;Waithaka Kirika&rdquo;.Some residents have raised questions about his integrity because although he condemns corruption, he continues to draw his salary from the county government, while rocking the boat from within. In his defence, he says he chose to stay because it would be dangerous for a county to stay without a deputy governor, who would take charge in case anything happened to the governor. &ldquo;The governor can die, be impeached, be incapacitated or go crazy,&rdquo; he told the StarKnown for his understanding of regional politics, Mwangi has camped in Kipipiri and Kinagop areas, and has vowed that this time round, the governor seat will not cross River Malewa to the North.He is a close ally of former Cabinet minister Amos Kimunya, who wants to recapture the Kipipiri parliamentary seat. Mwangi is counting on Kimunya&rsquo;s influence to get Kipipiri vote. But Kimunya himself has to first deal with incumbent Samuel Gichigi and new entrant former Inooro FM presenter Wanjiku Njuguna and businessman Raphael Nju,i among others. Mwangi is also understood to be courting Ndaragwa to support him. He is counting on Jeremiah Kioni&rsquo;s influence in Ndaragwa. He is the former MP. Nyandarua North-South divide and ancestral origins play out here. Most of the people from Kinangop and Kipipiri have their roots in Kiambu and Murang&rsquo;a, while those from Ol Kalou, Ol Joro Orok and Ndaragwa originated from Nyeri. These differences have always dictated politics and development in Nyandarua, and any candidate with capacity to influence them has an advantage.Ol Kalou, Ol Joro Orok and Kipipiri constituencies made up the former Kipipiri constituency. &ldquo;They have a common history, hence should unite to form Nyandarua Central to do away with the North&ndash;South nonsense,&rdquo; Peter Macithi, Nyandarua JP secretary general said.Macithi told the Star an idea has been mooted to separate Kipipiri from Kinangop, because &ldquo;we always fight together as Nyandarua South, but when the goodies come, they go to Kinangop&rdquo;. Macithi said any candidate who will mange to gather votes in Ol Kalou, Kipipiri and Ol Joro Orok will defeat Kinangop and Ndaragwa combined.Kiarie recently changed his name to include his popular nickname &mdash; Badilisha &mdash; in his national ID, to make it easy for voters to lidentify him during voting. The educationist, businessman and politician contested for Ol Kalou MP in 2013 but lost to David Kiaraho.Badilisha has vast experience in research, planning and policy formulation. These attributes, he say will work for the for Nyandarua because &ldquo;even my CEC members and chief officers will always be guided by their governor on how to make policies that will help the residents&rdquo;. Gathimba contested in 2013 and finished second. He was appointed as an executive but resigned last month to join politics. The former treasurer for the now-defunct Nairobi City Council is experienced in financial planning and management. &ldquo;There is a problem with the current Nyandarua leadership. That is why I want to be governor to change the fortunes of Nyandarua,&rdquo; he said.Declaring his bid last December, Senator Karue said he will end corruption in the county. &ldquo;I want to tell you corruption can be eliminated,&rdquo; he said. Different denominations are supporting their own. But Wanjohi says,&rdquo; The church belongs to the community, and should be neutral during the campaigns.We should not be biased or be driven towards a certain individual,&rdquo; he said.