In a faraway land, the union of candle makers wrote a petition to their Parliament. The union complained of being subjected to ruinous competition by a foreign rival, who had such superior skills of producing light that he was flooding the domestic market with it. His prices were incredibly low as to be free. This depressed the union&rsquo;s sales. This competitor was the sun. The union asked the legislators to pass a law requiring that all buildings close their windows, doors and any other fissure through which sunlight could enter in order to shut off all access to natural light. They reasoned that blocking the Sun would shift the demand curve for candles outward, thereby creating the need for artificial light. This need would trigger a demand for more tallow, which meant farmers would keep more cattle and sheep, which would result in an increase in meat, wool and leather. More cattle and sheep would mean more manure, hence an increase in the quality and quantity of harvest. They felt they had served their country well, hence gratitude demanded that their country should not abandon them to this unequal competition (Economic sophism by F. Bastiat, 19th C). We have been informed that the country is hiring foreign doctors. It is hoped that their services will alleviate the challenges faced by our shortage of health workers, and mitigate the effect of the 100-day strike. You would expect that their Kenyan counterparts would jubilate. After all, who says no to an offer of help? But not so. First, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union has expressed outrage at the prospect of hiring foreign doctors as opposed to recruiting from the domestic unemployed market. Second, they have asked for a deployment delay so that the Kenyan government signs the return to work formula and the collective bargaining agreement. Whichever way you slice it, KMPDU appears to be scoring some serious points. Protecting Kenyan jobs and promoting employment of Kenyans should be any government&rsquo;s first priority. After all, it is a good way to boost growth and employment. And President Uhuru Kenyatta, during his next State of the Nation address, could proudly report on the additional number of jobs his government has created. However, kindly delay your applause. KMPDU is our modern candle makers union. And they are not alone. Recall when the Kenyan Taxi Operators Union gave the government an ultimatum to deregister Uber because the US e-hailing company was eating into their profits. Similarly, some media houses were involved in a protracted legal battle, where they unsuccessfully petitioned the court that they were being forced to avail their channels to other broadcasters, leading to their unprecedented shut down by the Communications Authority. But in all fairness, these are not judicious comparisons. After all, these entities were not seeking protection from free imported labour, goods and services. They were all petitioning for protectionism. Protectionism is the policy of using coercion to restrict the importation of foreign goods, allegedly for the benefit of the domestic economy. It can be employed through higher tariffs, import quotas, exchange controls or political roadblocks (L. Reed). The import of this discourse is to invite you to cross-examine, who does protectionism really protect? The Good Book, tells us that all things are permissible, but not all things are beneficial (I Corinthians 10:23). Protectionist policies are also permissible and are in fact beneficial: But only in the very short term. This is because the benefits accrued to the privileged few are immediate, tangible and visible. However, in the long term, they are extremely costly. The result is a net loss for society because a favour bestowed to one is a disfavour bestowed to others.I have argued before that unions cause unemployment by enforcing their wage rates through restriction of labour competition. By enforcing foreign labour restrictions, the unions contend that they are the only legitimate &lsquo;owners&rsquo; of these jobs, and that they have the right to prevent anybody else from taking those jobs. It therefore means that you spend longer hours queuing at a health facility because the health workforce-to-population will remain below the recommended optimal ratio. This is an opportunity cost where time that could have been spent more productively elsewhere, is wasted waiting to see the insufficient medial officers.The supporters of protectionism recruit sympathisers by trumping the patriotic card. But the unseen consequence is the distortion of the economy at the expense of consumers. Protectionism limits competition, which in turn limits choices and affordability. When the state applies tariffs, this raises the prices and the consumer pays more for goods and services. As a result, the portion of their income that they would have saved or invested is now spent to buy the same basket of goods.It has been reported that it will be cheaper for the government to hire foreign doctors. In the protectionism spiel, this is equivalent to &lsquo;dumping&rsquo;. Dumping is the export of a product or service at a price that is lower than the domestic price. To discourage dumping, States impose a tax, which effectively raises the cost of the product or service, making it ultimately more expensive for the consumer to purchase.The question you may be asking is, if protectionism largely hurts the consumers, why do politicians support it? The undisclosed reason is that it enhances their political and economic power. Politicians exploit the opportunity to extend favours to their cronies as a means of rent seeking. This is &lsquo;legal plunder&rsquo; (F. Bastiat). They take or deny opportunities to those who have legitimately acquired them and give it to those who have not created it. The next time you tend to be all pro-protectionist, kindly consider this: &lsquo;that open borders are motivated by a simple economic fact: CHANGE of preferences, of productivity of land, labour, and capital. Therefore in order to adapt to the changing conditions and effectively produce, people and goods must constantly move to those places where their contributions are most valuable&rsquo; (Mises).&lsquo;Pursuing protectionism is just like locking oneself in a dark room; wind and rain might be kept outside, but so are light and air&rsquo; &ndash; Xi Jinping The writer is a political economist