WHILE Nairobians appreciate the NTSA initiative of compelling pedestrians to use flyovers, they are questioning why the Authority has not used the same zeal to crackdown on rogue PSV drivers who jump traffic lights with impunity. The crew brazenly break all the traffic rules, including playing loud music and graffiti on the windows. A case in point is the frequent sustained arrests of pedestrians crossing to either side of Jogoo Road, especially around Burma market. Many wonder why NTSA Director General Francis Mejja (pictured)can&rsquo;t root out rogue drivers who always overlap, destroying footpaths and exposing pedestrians to great risk.***** AFTER a recent poll showed that Kenyans are unhappy with the majority of the current crop of MPs and will send them home on August 8, some lawmakers are truly frightened. Word has it that the once outspoken legislators both from Jubilee and the Opposition who used to comment on national issues are now missing in action in Nairobi. It is said they have gone into hiding and camping in their constituencies, trying to recover lost ground. Some are now active on social media platforms, including reopening Facebook pages they shut immediately they won the 2013 polls. It is said they are so deeply concentrated on local issues they don&rsquo;t even pick calls or respond to journalists&rsquo; text messages for comment on thorny national matters. Whether they are aware that their fate is already sealed, only August 8 will tell! ***** A rogue politician-cum-hustler from Western is a man in total panic. Reason? Word has it that the hustler is petrified after it was discovered that he took a deceased man&rsquo;s firearm from his widow and kept it for more than a year. It is said many are wondering why the man who has been jumping from one political party to another is yet to surrender the gun, despite being summoned by police. It is also said the man took the dead man&rsquo;s three vehicles, which he has refused to return, claiming ownership. However, receipts he presented to police claiming ownership of the vehicles &ldquo;through my sweat&rdquo; left many flabbergasted - they totals only Sh700,000!***** WHO is behind the issuance of private firearm licences in this country? Security stakeholders are concerned that land brokers and people of questionable character have recently acquired firearms that are being used in dubious activities. Although a verification process has been initiated to verify the licences, it is feared that those with money will retain the guns, despite irregularities. All eyes are now on top security chiefs, including the tough-talking Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to step in and root out the menace. The EACC, chaired by Archbishop Eliud Wabukala, and the DCI, headed by Ndegwa Muhoro, are looked upon to bring to book individuals with questionable conduct engaging in bribery to retain their firearms.