The recent announcement by the security forces after a long meeting in Nairobi was shocking. The top echelons of the police, the administration police and &mdash; I have reason to believe &mdash; the NSIS and military intelligence, met in Nairobi to discuss nothing other than the coming elections. Some of the decisions arrived at, one would be justified to say, were routine police work, which did not really need a special summit to discuss.This are issues such as what to do with people who encroach on forests during the election period. Illegal forest encroachment is not allowed in the first place, and those who do it, either do so with blatant impunity, through ignorance or dire need. Either way, the law enforcement agencies do not need a special summit to discuss this matter. A mere circular will do the job.The Constitution and relevant laws already tell us something about election offenses. The real manager of elections is the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission (please underline the word &ldquo;independent&rdquo;). The key players &mdash; the political parties &mdash; are also managed under the Political Parties Act and the Registrar of Political Parties. Other than issuing routine instructions of the &ldquo;do&rsquo;s&rdquo; and &ldquo;dont&rsquo;s&rdquo; during campaigns and actual elections, these two institutions only need to inform the security forces where their roles are needed without breaking either the Constitution or election laws.But following the recent security summit that came out with a wide range of edicts, including the unconstitutional outlawing of demonstrations after elections, one is left wondering why the state has gone into a panic mode regarding the outcome of the poll. From the edicts issued, only one conclusion can be arrived at. And that is, the Kenyan masses are likely not to receive very kindly an announcement by the IEBC, which is likely to alter the true verdict of the people; hence the fear of mass action. To add insult to injury, the IEBC has, in return, boldly announced that it will not be held responsible if &ldquo;things go wrong with the coming elections.&rdquo; So, if that is the IEBC forewarning us, who is then to be held responsible for messing up the management of the elections except the manager itself: the IEBC? No: says the manager. Not me! Look for the cause of our coming problems elsewhere. Most probably the incumbent government which has already smelt defeat.From where I sit, NSIS information reaching me from the grapevine &mdash; or radio without batteries &mdash; tells me that the eyes of the state have also seen this election loss coming the Jubilee way. The panic is real, not imagined. Trip after trip to the Coast, Western and Nyamira/Kisii are not yielding results. The pastoralists have also decided to have their own Economic Freedom (read &ldquo;Devolution&rdquo;) Party, independent of &ldquo;the big boys&rsquo; parties.&rdquo; They are not in a hurry to reveal who they will ally with before or after the elections. After all, with devolution, they only need to look after the home turf well &ldquo;and all these things will be added unto them&rdquo;. In Nyamira/Kisii, Jubilee has already dialed the wrong number: The candidates already enshrined with Jubilee tickets at all levels of electoral competition are no longer that appealing in the Gusii political arena, mildly so put. At the Coast, the Sultan has been lionised by the politics of presidential tantrums, and any more visits could at best be politely ignored and at worst be met with another shouting match where David is very likely to slay Goliath.In the heartland of Central Kenya, demonising Aguambo no longer seems to be rallying the crowds behind &ldquo;mundu wa nyumba&rdquo;. People are simply tired of the economics and politics of Jubilee. To get food on the table has become a herculean task for the ordinary Kenyan. To get a loan from the bank may easily be a pipe dream for the business person. The syndicated loans we are getting to do what we should do at the national level, ie build infrastructure, are too expensive for us to afford. They are part of the problem. That is the economist David Ndii speaking and not Agwambo. Both are asking the same question: What has happened to the money with &ldquo;mundu wa nyumba&rdquo; in power and his high fives with his Deputy President? Did Aguambo get it wrong when he cried aloud about Eurobond and warned us very early about Anne Waiguru and her ilk? Why were we so slow to read the signs of the times? Everybody everywhere seem to be tired. Wananchi wamechoka. My friends from Central tell me that if they are threatened not to vote for Agwambo, then they would rather stay at home with their votes. I don&rsquo;t think they are cheating me. These are my buddies. They tell me that voter apathy is real in Central. It makes me understand why &ldquo;Kamwana&rdquo; gets so easily upset when he tries to expand his vote bank, and little progress is made. I would be equally irritable from frustration. I don&rsquo;t blame him.Then we turn around and we find stern warnings: Don&rsquo;t dare stand up for your rights if the elections are rigged! What cheek? The policemen and other men and women in uniform are also Kenyans. They also have the vote. When they go to Uchumi Supermarket, they buy the same bread that I buy. With their pension funds, they try to open small businesses hoping the banks will augment their twilight years investments with some loan. Their colleagues who have tried to go down that route tell them that the days people rose from little outfits in the Kenya Industrial Estates to make it big in business are long gone. Now money is in the hands of only a few people, and these few people will do their best to manipulate the money markets using state machine to their own advantage. You can count these few people in your ten fingers multiplied three times. They are not just about to see something called elections take away the prized Kenyan estate from them. Forewarned is fore prepared. Mass action almost succeeded in 2008! This time even its contemplation must be stopped now, not later!The onus of stopping this coming catastrophe is partly in the hands of the leaders of NASA &mdash; the co-principlals. Please, gentlemen, Kenyans everywhere want a social force which will galvanise their hopes and aspirations to do one thing: Remove this self-preserving Jubilee government from power just like we did with the Moi regime when Narc did the job. Remember how happy Kenyans were soon after Narc came to power. Being in government then was a pleasure, not a torture! It is that spirit that Kenyans want: The unity of all Kenyans behind one purpose &mdash;democracy and socio-economic progress. Please don&rsquo;t bore us with who promised who what a few years ago. Honestly we are not interested. You all should be honest enough to divide the responsibility of leading Kenyans on the basis of your different abilities and credibility. Don&rsquo;t think that Kenyans don&rsquo;t know this: They do.One more thing. We know that each one of you belong to this or that ethnic community. Presidential politics inevitably drives us to try and &ldquo;gather numbers&rdquo; through ethnic identity. That is the reality. But it is a reality which is also antithetical to our progressive concerns in NASA. That is why our loss of a parliamentary system of government when MPs negotiated the present Constitution in Naivasha in 2010 was so tragic. But let us not cry over spilt milk. If we can manage to form a government Kenyans will support us in a renewed attempt to introduce a parliamentary system of government. So let us look forward to something great we are going to achieve collectively when in government.Please put together a package that is formidable: Something that will scare the hell out of Jubilee. If you ask me, that package can only be done by each one of you &ldquo;denying yourselves&rdquo; the opportunity to be your own advocates and choosing a team which can, through a carefully thought out Terms of Reference, give you that package as a done deal. Why don&rsquo;t you call in Kofi Anan to help us out if our own internal process is not succeeding? Look. I am just thinking aloud as most Kenyans are currently doing on your behalf. Time is not on our side. The wananchi may get tired just waiting for you to make up your minds. That long wait may easily lead to voter apathy, believe you me. Please don&rsquo;t let that happen.