Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi share certain political characteristics. They are fierce critics of the Jubilee government and ardent supporters of ODM and its leader Raila Odinga.They also share the passion to earn the position of Coast regional political kingpin. For Joho, his passion goes a notch higher &ndash; he wants to be President in 2022.Joho, Kingi and Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu have been barnstorming the Coast to urge communities to reject JP and vote for ODM and Raila.In some parts the message has been welcomed, in others such as Mpeketoni in Lamu county and Kinango in Kwale, hostility, scorn and teargas have been witnessed.Joho and Kingi come from different social backgrounds to contemplate a political a alliance. Joho is Arab-African, the Swahili people who, alongside the Arab community, have historically dominated the Coast as businesspeople, merchants and traders.Kingi is a Giryama, a sub-ethnic group of the Mijikenda community, historically the most disadvantaged in the Coast. In political terms, the minority Arab and Swahili communities are endowed with financial and other resources, whereas the Giryama and the Mijikenda people have the numbers &ndash; they constitute over half of the Coast&rsquo;s estimated three million people.This notwithstanding, Joho and Kingi have woven a formidable political alliance that is rapidly transforming the political landscape of the Coast. Their opposition to the JP government is unprecedented; and their support for ODM and Raila borders on political madness.The rivalry fronted by Joho and Kingi against JP is premised on Coast&rsquo;s place in national politics and the economy. Couched in another name, it is about finding viable solutions to the coastal problems of marginalisation and historical injustices. Joho and Kingi are accusing the government of not doing enough to address these issues.Like previous governments, JP is seen not only as the perpetuator of these injustices, but also anti-devolution. JP leaders have, of course, rejected these accusations.In Joho and Kingi&rsquo;s view, the answer to coastal problems lies in the election of Raila as President and ODM. Therefore, JP must be contained.As the election draws near, the issue at hand is whether or not the Joho-Kingi alliance against Jubilee will get them reelected. The answer depends on the respective personalities and leadership styles of these two politicians.In both cases, however, the probability of reelection will have nothing to do with their confrontational politics, development records, or unwavering support for ODM and Raila.Joho is likely to be reelected in part because he has identified himself as the man who cares most about the aspirations of the disadvantaged people of Mombasa. Despite Joho&rsquo;s proclaimed riches, he has shunned politics of elitism and opted for being what Chinua Achebe would call &lsquo;a man of the people&rsquo;. He is personable.If Joho quit ODM today for another party, the majority of Mombasa voters would go along with him. With these qualities, among others, Joho&rsquo;s chances for reelection on August 8 are real.As in Mombasa, Kingi&rsquo;s possible reelection shall have nothing to do with the factors I have stated above, namely, his anti-Jubilee rhetoric or his contentious development record. Kingi is likely to be reelected in part because of the fragmentation from within the camp that opposes him. More than half of those competing to unseat him are from his Giryama community, which means that votes shall be split and with the benefit of incumbency, Kingi is likely to get reelected.The impact of the Joho-Kingi alliance in transforming coastal politics is not easy to discern. If the opposition forms the next government, Joho is likely to emerge as the regional political supremo and Kingi his backup.However, if the opposition loses, Joho and Kingi shall remain inconsequential critics of the JP government. They shall have lost control of the Coast political pulse.