There are a couple things I have to declare straight away when it comes to my opinion of Craig Bellamy. The first is that I was the ghost-writer for his autobiography, GoodFella, which was published in 2013. I got to know him well during that time. He is bright, engaging and articulate, a ghost-writer s dream. I enjoyed his company. I still do.The second is that a few years earlier, a sporting organisation in Rio de Janeiro called Instituto Reacao asked for help sponsoring the education of Arthur, a kid from Rocinha, a sprawling Rio favela. I asked Bellamy and Kieron Dyer if they would contribute and they gave a significant sum each.Arthur became one of the best students in his school. He is now in his third year at the prestigious Pontificia Universidade Catolica (PUC) do Rio, studying Engineering. Bellamy and Dyer, who were stereotyped as brats when they were players, helped to change the course of Arthur s life.It was a drop in the ocean but they were willing to do something, at least, which is more than most of us do. By then, Bellamy was also heavily involved in setting up a football academy outside Freetown in Sierra Leone. Inspired by a visit to the country to see a friend in 2007, he ploughed more than 1million of his own money into the establishment and maintenance of the academy and helped to fund a national league in Sierra Leone.In the following years, the academy sent 10 boys to college in the US on football scholarships and one to Denmark. Whether you think the US is the land of milk and honey or not, it is a fair bet that their lives improved. Bellamy said that helping them was the best thing he had ever done and that he hoped he would be remembered more for his work in West Africa than for his goals for Newcastle, Liverpool, West Ham and Cardiff.Bellamy was desperate to try to make the academy self-sustaining. He knew that when his playing career came to an end, he would not be able to keep paying hundreds of thousands of pounds towards its upkeep. Bellamy poured 1.4million of his own money into creating the Foundation, but it closed suddenly last year amid claims of financial mismanagement He flew out to Freetown as often as a Premier League career would allow but no sponsors came forward and the Ebola outbreak that dealt Sierra Leone such a devastating blow made investment in football seem rather peripheral.Bellamy tried as best he could. He employed sponsorship managers to try to raise funds. They kept coming up empty. In the end, he had to admit defeat and the academy closed last September. He found it hard to take but was proud of the good he had done. He had tried to make a difference in a country most people ignore.The demise of the academy was reported last week. There were legitimate questions to be posed about why it had folded and they were duly asked. Where had Bellamy s money gone? Why had accounts from the Craig Bellamy Foundation not been filed since 2015? Was the academy properly regulated? What was its relationship with the Sierra Leone FA?There were also poignant accounts of what had happened to some of the kids who were among the last residents. Some of them were living in squalid conditions in a nearby village. Sierra Leone s poverty had swallowed them back up.It is right that charity initiatives should be properly scrutinised like this by good journalists. Bellamy was clear from the start that his academy was a not-for-profit organisation and he abided by that. But not every organisation in this area can say the same.Football academies in Africa and elsewhere can sometimes be fronts for cynical money-making exercises. Some see young footballers as a lucrative opportunity. They see the money swilling around in the European game and sense the chance for a new kind of people-trafficking. But now for the bitterly amusing part. Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA, chose to get involved and castigated Bellamy as if FIFA were somehow a moral authority on matters of this nature. And so the head of one of the most corrupt, venal, sick, cynical, exploitative, debased, discredited and greedy organisations in the world, condemned Bellamy for all those years of trying to help children in Sierra Leone. It is not right to sell hope to some kids, boys or girls, and then let them down, said Infantino. They have to be sustainable, they have to be seriously managed and they have to be realistic as well. The worst thing is indeed to abuse the dream that many kids and their families can have in countries where it is more difficult to live. I wonder how much FIFA, with their billions in television revenue, contributed to Bellamy s academy. I wonder how much they helped. I wonder how much they have done to improve the football infrastructure in Sierra Leone, as Bellamy had done with his efforts to fund a youth league.Maybe Bellamy was naive. Maybe he was badly advised. Maybe he was too ambitious. But, for a while, he made a difference. He was genuine in his desire to help. And for people who made no difference at all to be sneering at him now is rather sad and dispiriting.In England, we condemn footballers for their conspicuous consumption and the way they squander wealth on empty symbols of lavish living. And when they give their time and money to trying to improve lives in a country most of us would be too timid even to visit, we condemn them for that, too.One of the most poignant and infuriating moments of the 2016 Olympics came when the judges cheated Irish boxer, Michael Conlan, of victory against his Russian opponent Vladimir Nikitin in the quarter-finals.Conlan s furious, heart-breaking reaction at seeing his dream of gold ripped away from him was one of the most memorable images of the Games and helped to force the authorities to remove the most shameless of its boxing officials.Conlan, not surprisingly, quit the amateur game after Rio and makes his professional debut at super-bantamweight at Madison Square Garden on Friday. He is a brilliant fighter, who has committed to living in the US for two years to hone his skills, and an articulate man. What happened in Rio hasn t scarred me but it has made me a better person, he told me last week. It s made me able to cope with adversity and more determined to make my mark professionally than ever. Everything about Conlan, who will be accompanied into the ring by UFC superstar Conor McGregor, suggests he is a star in the making. Sport doesn t have a conscience but boxing owes him. Several years ago, I spent an hour or two with John Surtees, talking about his life and career.I was keenly aware of what a privilege it was to be in the company of the only man ever to win the 500cc motorbike world title and the F1 drivers title. Surtees wore his greatness lightly as he talked about his battles with Jim Clark and Graham Hill, although his grief at the recent death of his son, Henry, in a freak racing accident at Brands Hatch, hung over the conversation. His passing last week at 83 was a reminder of his unique achievement and of the fact that this modest, cerebral man was never quite treated with the awe and respect that he deserved.