Nairobi Senator&nbsp; Mike Sonko has denied claims his aides dished&nbsp;out cash to&nbsp; Mombasa residents while he mobilised them to attend a rally by the President. A video seen by the Star on Tuesday shows Jubilee agents&nbsp;distributing the party's&nbsp;flags and people walking away with money in their hands. It is not clear what event they were to attend but Sonko said it was by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President had a major rally at Tononoka grounds on Sunday. Election laws state that aspirants in the August 8 election are not to give cash handouts in exchange for votes and that this could result in being locked out of the poll. Read: 'Mean' Jubilee, ODM MPs to blame for anti-harambees law, says MP SavulaAfter scrambling in a corner and&nbsp;getting the flags and t-shirts, the residents leave the scene, some with&nbsp; Sh50 notes in their hands. "Sonko eeh... Sonko aah," they chant while walking away. But the Senator&nbsp;told the Star by phone that&nbsp;they were giving out Jubilee t-shirts and flags and that no one received cash. "Kwani kuna shida gani ku coordinate? Unaona mahali tunapea watu pesa? Kwani kuna shida gani kukuwa kwa scene? Hata murder scene watu hukuwa," he said.This loosely translates to: "Is there a problem coordinating? Have you seen us giving out cash in any part of the video? What is the problem with being at a scene? People even go to murder scenes."Sonko added that there was nothing wrong with giving out money and that their duty as Jubilee members was to mobilise crowds to listen to the President. "Hata kama kuna mtu anapatiana pesa ni sawa. Kwani what is wrong kupeana fare. Utawachaje mama atembee? Lakini sijaona mtu akipeana pesa hapo," he said. This means: "It is okay for people to give out money. What is wrong with giving the people fare? We cannot let an old woman walk. But I have not seen anyone giving out cash."He added that they were going door to door to ask the people to assemble for Uhuru, as was always the case."Tunawatongoza. Kwani shida iko wapi?&nbsp;(We are luring them. Where is the problem?" he asked once again.&nbsp; "Hakuna mwenye alipewa pesa. H ata kama tunapeana pesa hatuwezi peana&nbsp;50&nbsp;bob haitoshi (No one was given money but if we gave out cash it would not be just Sh50. That is not enough." The video emerged a day after the President visited the county to launch projects including Mtongwe ferry services. Governor Hassan Joho was barred from the event and placed under arrest in his office. Uhuru told Joho off for following him to major events at the Coast as if he (Uhuru) is his "wife", saying he should&nbsp; focus on&nbsp;Mombasa's issues instead. Exchanges between the two leaders escalated as Uhuru conducted a tour of the county to initiate development."It is a sad thing to have leaders who don't understand ... don't play with me ... Mombasa is for everyone.&nbsp;Why follow me? Why should we follow each other? I am not his wife," the President asked. Joho enjoys immense support in Mombasa, which is believed to a National Super Alliance stronghold. [AUDIO] Stop following me like I'm your wife, Uhuru tells Joho at Mtongwe ferry launchStory updatedBelow is file footage of Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko handing out money to supporters to attend a rally in Nairobi's Mlango Kubwa area of Mathare constituency which President Uhuru Kenyatta and a host of other Jubilee Party leaders attended.