Some employees of the Export Promotion Council want six of their colleagues investigated and held to account alongside outgoing CEO Ruth Mwaniki for alleged misuse of funds.They also alleged some staff were hired through nepotism and favouritism.In a letter to the EACC and the EPC&rsquo;s board of directors, they also called for an overall audit of operations at the council, which includes human resource, the tendering process, foreign travels, trade fairs and expo organisation. This comes days after the Star published a story on how Mwaniki, who is handing over the office Friday, used the organisation to award cronies, employ unqualified relatives and turned expos and trade fairs into cash cows. During her tenure, the organisation was unable to account for more than Sh500 million expos funds and the declining trend in Kenyan exports.After her contract ended in December 31 last year, Mwaniki handed in her resignation on February 7, declaring she is vying for Kigumo MP seat. She even had the board and the staff do farewell parties for her, but she has been in office until yesterday.&ldquo;Even if she is leaving, she must be held to account for abuse of office and be made to account for administrative and financial malpractices during her tenure. When she came here, she reorganised the institution and sacked competent people and brought in her cronies from her former workplace, the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union,&rdquo; an employee told the Star.&ldquo;We have colleagues who were hired on grounds of nepotism and have served to cover up her misdeeds. They also need to be scrutinised too and taken to account individually.&rdquo;Documents seen by the Star show Antony Sawaya, a former finance officer at KPCU, was hired as the market development and promotion manager, Peterson Nyachwaya as manager market product and development in charge of international trade and Lawrence Njihia as assistant manager ICT.Lucy Njeri a sister to Mwaniki is a former guard at KPCU, who was hired as administration officer together with Kennedy Kamau, a nephew of mwaniki. James Munyi, a former human resource manager at KPCU was also hired. The six, the documents show, never missed any international trade fair or expos.Reached for comment, Nyachwaya told the Star to ask whoever had paid him to provide the details.He said the board had ordered he be surcharged and banned from all international trips for losing USD 3200 (Sh3.2 million) in November 2014, during the Kenya Solo Exhibition in Lubumbashi. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m paying at a rate of Sh20,000 until its fully recovered. Whoever gave you this should have told you the whole story,&rdquo; he said in a text message.Nyachwaya had travelled with the hard cash, but never declared it at the customs. He only reported the matter when it got lost.Kamau didn&rsquo;t respond to our inquiries on what circumstances he was give one year paid leave, nor claims he imports handicraft from neighbouring countries, which are sold in expos.Munyi, who reached official retirement age last year, but is still working at EPC, in a text message said the issues will be addressed by the board chair at a later date. The rest didn&rsquo;t respond to our text messages or calls.