Long-serving Equity Group Holdings chairman Peter Kahara Munga has left the chairmanship of Equity Bank Kenya as part of the group's succession plan. Here are the excerpts of an interview he gave to our special correspondent. How does it feel to have provided leadership at Equity Group for 34 years and see the lender become the largest in the region with 11.4 million customers? It feels good and I enjoy God’s favour to have enjoyed good health for all the 34 years. It also feels the vision and purpose of Equity are blessed and that’s why the bank flourished against all odds to become an African icon reflecting our capability and ability as a people. I am also humbled seeing the significance and impact that Equity has had in terms of numbers of 11.4 million customers who have become loyal members and the impact we have had in empowering our people especially in agriculture, business, and education, and raising the esteem of Africans as a people. What is your memorable moment of your last 34 years of your chairmanship? I am honoured to see my vision to empower our people by availing inclusive financial services has come to pass. I have very fond memories of the reasons for starting Equity Building Society to solve an socio-economic challenge and has fond memories of personally contributing in the early days in mobilising customers. I have also fond memories of overcoming difficult challenges and seeing through challenging moments like technical insolvency in the early 90’s, low public confidence and low brand visibility in the early days. I have also fond memories of enduring a struggle that led the bank to become a global award winner like the Global Vision Award, World Entrepreneur of the Year, Forbes Africa Person of the Year and African entrepreneur and leader of the year.I have also seen Equity reach the pinnacle of global rating and witnessed Equity being ranked for two consecutive years by the Top 1000 Banks in the World as the 8th best bank in the world on return on assets and 43rd best bank in the world on solidness or soundness. It was a moment to behold to see that Equity fund the government to the tune of Sh100 billion to further development of our people. The solid balance sheet of nearly Sh1 trillion that the bank had shows what as a people we can accomplish. I also derive great pride to see Equity diversify through insurance services and mobile banking to complement the transformation of our economy. The Equity agency model to us symbolises shared prosperity with our customers and our people and makes me extremely proud. The group is known for relatively strong governance practices, including barring directors from borrowing from the bank as well as trade with the bank. Why did you adopt such strict code of conduct? One of the group’s core values is effective corporate governance. There are plain benefits of a properly implemented effective corporate governance system as it provides investor confidence. The group and the bank has built its business on very strong corporate governance principles. These are based on the application of high and consistent ethical standards in our relationships with all customers, employees and other stakeholders, avoidance of conflict of interest, a strong commitment to conduct business in accordance with best business practices and principles of transparency, accountability and responsibility. Others are monitoring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, risk management, appropriate checks and balances. The group and the bank have also been kept abreast with international developments in corporate governance for the promotion of enhanced transparency, integrity and the rule of law. Your retirement from the board of Equity Bank Kenya seems to suggest a well-planned and choreographed succession plan. Is this the case? Yes. From my early days, when I joined the Kenya government as an administrator, I have watched the positive impact of succession planning and the crisis that follow poor succession planning and implementation. In Equity, we have seen succession within management with very significant positive results. We have seen indigenization of positions previously held by expatriates when we feel skills, competencies and capabilities have been effectively transferred to those who have been prepared. I have seen shadowing particularly of the CEO help produce all the managing directors of our subsidiary companies with home grown talent, while at the same time producing seven managing directors for the financial industry in Kenya. Seeing the benefits of planned succession makes me recognise the importance of timing. The significant change in environment, driven by demographics trends where 60 per cent of our population is below the age of 25 years and where computerisation has given way to digitisation in this era of internet of things, it was my conviction that it was time to appoint a much younger, highly educated, technology savvy and internet astute chairman to Equity Bank Kenya. Prof Isaac Muthure is a renowned and leading ENT (Ear, Nose and Throat) specialist who also chairs the regional ENT Association. As regards the appointment of David Ansell as deputy chair in Equity Group Holdings, it reflects the status of the group as a major corporate banking player in the regional and global spheres with diverse foreign and local shareholders requiring technical banking skills, long standing experience and global networks in this era of globalisation. Both Ansell and Prof Muthure have been mentored and coached for a long time, tested and tried. Their long stints of service have made them internalize the corporate philosophies, purpose, vision and mission and to develop the right chemistry and people skills to gel with their co-directors and executive management. We have staggered succession plan splitting the non-operating holding company and the main subsidiary and I have ceded of the chairmanship Kenya subsidiary to Prof Isaac Muthure and with appointment of a deputy to allow for consolidation of the leadership. You also have a long-serving group CEO. What would you say about his succession, have you also planned for it? [Laughs] Dr James Mwangi is over 20 years my junior and I would not talk of his retirement on the same breadth with my succession. He is a vision bearer and visionaries don’t work for salaries, but focus on living and executing their vision. Dr Mwangi has a long time to serve the group but, like prudent practices would suggest, we have a comprehensive succession plan in place in case of unplanned occurrence. We have four directors in the CEO’s strategic office. We also have 12 directors in the corporate office under the group chief operations officer, and also eight MDs of subsidiaries and three very able senior directors in our flagship Equity Bank Kenya who have been under his mentorship and coaching. I am proud of the last 26 years that we have worked with Dr Mwangi, and I can assure all stakeholders that the bank is in a safe pair of hands for both stability and growth. Dr Mwangi has also helped nurture and develop seven MDS in our financial sector.The Group’s approach to succession planning is different from the traditional one of identifying one successor. The Group has instead opted to develop a pool of leaders at the managerial and board level to give the board a choice should the circumstances demand this.