The government will pay pastoralists from the arid and semi-arid areas Sh215 million in insurance benefits to feed their livestock in this dry season.State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu yesterday said the payment will be launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta this week. &ldquo;The payment, under the Kenya Livestock Insurance Programme, will target 12,604 registered pastoralists in the seven counties. Some 2,503 pastoralists in Turkana, who are registered under the programme, were paid last month,&rdquo; he said.The money will benefit pastoralists from Wajir, Turkana, Tana River, Isiolo, Marsabit and Mandera counties.Esipisu said the money will enable the pastoralists to buy fodder and other animal feed.He addressed journalists at Sagana State Lodge in Nyeri.Esipisu said the government is committed to fighting drought, since it has rehabilitated boreholes.He said the government has doubled food rations to feed three million people, up from an initial figure of 1.3 million Kenyans in 23 counties. &ldquo;The government is buying animals from the pastoralists and slaughtering them. The aim of the off-take project is to put capital in the pockets of the pastoralists so they can restock when the drought ends,&rdquo; Esipisu said.He also said there has been a tremendous improvement in security in Baringo and Marakwet. &ldquo;There have been no incidents in Laikipia, except the one in which a lodge was torched by herders, reportedly in retaliation for tough police action,&rdquo;Esipisu said. &ldquo;The number of officers in the area has been increased. In Marakwet, there are four new camps that have been opened. On the other hand, in Baringo, we have substantially increased the number of officers.&rdquo;In January, the government, through the Kenya Meat Commission, started buying malnourished animals from pastoralists. KMC commissioner Hassan Jelle said the government had set aside Sh170 million for the first phase of the exercise.&ldquo;The programme is not a business, but something meant to help the farmers. Instead of losing their animals to drought and hardship, the President said they should sell them and use the money for other purposes or buy other animals when the drought ends,&rdquo; he said.