Geothermal Development Company's profit after tax for 12 months through June 2016 fell to Sh287 million from Sh1.6 billion the year before on increased operating expenses, the state-owned company said yesterday. The capital-intensive firm broke a loss-making streak since its formation in 2008 in 2015 when it posted Sh1.6 billion after it signed steam sale agreement with state-controlled power producer KenGen. Revenue for the period, however, rose 24.9 per cent to Sh3.16 billion from Sh2.53 billion on increased sale of geothermal steam. The parastatal said gross steam sales stood at Sh3.16 billion in June last year up from Sh2.53 billion a year earlier. GDC, formed in 2008 as a special purpose vehicle to accelerate the development of geothermal resources in the country, has agreement with Kenya Electricity Generating Company for the sale of steam from 59 wells in Olkaria. GDC also gets funding for its operations from the exchequer and development partners. &ldquo;GDC continues to earn revenue from the sale of the 320MW of steam to KenGen which is used to run the two new power plants and several wellhead generation units,&rdquo; GDC chairman Gershom Bw&rsquo;Omanwa said yesterday following the company's fifth annual general meeting. GDC's future plans include boosting steam sales through the development of 1000MW of geothermal power from three geothermal projects. It has contracted three independent power producers through a competitive international open tender. Chief executive Johnson Ole Nchoe said each of the three contracted firms will build and operate a 35MW geothermal power plant for 25 years. Once the 105MW power plants are commissioned, GDC will be earning an additional Sh1.7 billion in annual steam sales revenue, he noted. &ldquo;The future of GDC is bright with the planned ground breaking for the construction of 105MW power plants in Menengai,&rdquo; he said. If the project is completed in 2018 as planned, Nchoe says, it will stand out as the fastest geothermal project developed in the country, having started in 2011. &ldquo;In the past, geothermal projects in Kenya have taken way over 10 years from conceptualization to power generation because the same company undertook to handle the whole value chain from drilling to power plant construction. GDC&rsquo;s innovative model of involving several players in various stages of the value chain is a big boost in the quest for accelerated development of geothermal resources,&rdquo; he said.