The law provides for any organisation to seek, probably at a fee, election services from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission.So far the Law Society of Kenya elections have been conducted by the IEBC. But the LSK elections are minuscule, the electorate was in the hundreds and the society was not rehearsing to nominate candidates to face opponents at a later date.It is a different ball game altogether when it comes to electoral politics involving competing political parties. The IEBC is an arbiter in national elections and it should not let itself be muddied more than it already has.Despite Article 88, there is obviously a conflict of interest when a referee is a relief coach for a team in a game he will preside over. The wisdom of that article is clearly lost in the reality of the mucky waters that are intra-party contests and power games.The IEBC in its current state should not be seduced into conducting political parties&rsquo; nominations. It is at its weakest and most vulnerable.Take the case of conducting Jubilee Party nominations. How long will the elections take? Will the exercise conflict with the IEBC&rsquo;s main activities? Will the commission have the time to preside over JP nominations, resolve arising disputes and later be a fair arbiter in the general election?What&rsquo;s the attraction of the IEBC to Jubilee? Whatever the commission may say to justify itself, the relationship remains incestuous.The IEBC is the final arbiter in party nominations disputes. How then will it be a judge in a case where it was the umpire? There is a nagging feeling that Jubilee wants to use the IEBC as the fall guy.Evidently Jubilee has a trust issue with its own aspirants. Many are nominating themselves to other parties with their feet. Jubilee has tried the diplomacy card with parties it cannibalised but to no avail.Pandering to Jubilee is like dancing in a fool&rsquo;s paradise. Jubilee has explained that it needs the IEBC to cleanse it of the &lsquo;select&rsquo; aspirants tag. The existence of this favoured category has caused constipation, with prominent incumbents fleeing the stable.But for a more credible explanation, let&rsquo;s paraphrase NASA founder and ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s take on Jubilee. He has, for the umpteenth time, said Jubilee is trading in the currency of deception.That Jubilee honchos indeed have sacred aspirants it wants to use the IEBC to confirm as candidates with the appearance of fair nominations is not far-fetched. The plot is very simple, give the IEBC a list of &lsquo;must win&rsquo; aspirants to be announced after a mock exercise. Should you raise any complaint, party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta will shrug at the unfortunate aspirant in his now customary &ldquo;what do you want me to do when it is the IEBC that conducted the nominations?&rdquo;Fact is the IEBC is starved for time to start engaging in extracurricular activities away from its key mandate to deliver a free, fair and credible general election. The commission, according to Mudavadi, is &ldquo;coming from ground zero&rdquo; and should choose between being a hero or villain should it dabble in intra-party politics.On all fronts, the IEBC is playing catch-up to realise legal and administrative timelines. It is now a herculean task tracking which timelines the electoral commission has violated.But of critical importance is the prolonged voter listing ordered by the courts, which jeopardises production of a credible voter&rsquo;s register on time. Cleaning up the register cannot proceed until judgment is made about a case in which the opposition has challenged award of the forensic audit tender to PwC.Matters can&rsquo;t be any more worse for the IEBC than when the courts nullified the ballot paper printing tender award.