Senators, who hoped they were an exalted Upper House, are abandoning the Senate in droves and making a mad dash for more lucrative and powerful positions.Even MCAs.The Senate has been nicknamed Nyumba la Wazee, House of Retirees.Senators control no resources.They leave behind power struggles with the National Assembly that seeks to curtail the enfeebled Senate and sap its already limited powers. At times there's talk of scrapping the Senate altogether as a superfluous contributor to the ballooning wage bill. Of the 67 senators, both elected and nominated, 34 have announced they are running for other positions or retiring from active politics.Two are running for President, Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and Nyamira Kennedy Mongare who was elected on a Ford-Kenya ticket.Most Senators are aiming for governor and MPs because of the resources they control.Others are even running for woman representative and two for MCA.Janet Ongera wants to be Kisii woman representative.Comment: Why senators want to become governorsNominated Senator Hosea Ochwang'i is running for MCA seat in Kisii county and Godliver Omondi for MCA in Kakamega county.Political analyst Dastan Omari said senators are driven by the desire to control billions of county shillings."Worldwide, the Senate is the Upper House and they didn't conceptualise they would not be allocated resources," he told the Star yesterday. "MCAs have a financial war chest, so do MPs and they can use that as a springboard for higher office. That's what informed the mad rush."Senators' major role is county oversight. The money is with governors, MPs and MCAs.Governors receive about Sh10 billion from the Treasury and have become mini-presidents in their counties where they wield considerable influence.Elected MPs control the Constituency Development Fund and can award &mdash; through strict procedures, of course &mdash; contracts to companies friendly to them. They also control bursaries and some have been accused of favouring the children of people who support them, not necessarily bright children from needy families.In 2013 elections, most candidates scrambled for the Senate, then referred to as the Upper House, thinking it would be a powerful chamber. Most didn't read the Constitution.Like an MP, a Senator earns about Sh740,000 basic monthly salary; including allowances, the figure is slightly more than Sh1 million a month. Of course, there are perks, such as low-cost mortgages and auto loans.By contrast, a governor earns approximately Sh1.11 million basic salary, plus allowances.A governor is very powerful, though he often must contend with MCAs who can make life and work difficult. He directs what should be spent, how and where. That's intoxicating. At the Coast, Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar and his Taita Taveta counterpart Dan Mwazo will be running for governors.Omar, the Wiper secretary general, wants to dethrone ODM deputy party leader and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho.Mwazo is strategising to remove Governor John Mruttu.Senators Lenny Kivuti (Embu), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) and David Musila (Kitui) want to be governors.Kivuti recently joined Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua's Maendeleo Chap Chap and wants to replace Embu boss Martin Wambora.Kiraitu wants to replace PNU leader Peter Munya, the Meru Governor. Musila wants to dethrone and Kitui's Julius Malombe.Migori Senator Wilfred Machage will run for Kuria West MP. Machage, who has fallen out with ODM boss Raila Odinga, will be seeking reelection on Democratic Party.Nyandarua Senator Muriuki Karue is gunning for Governor Daniel Waithaka. Senator John Munyes (Turkana) and John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) want to remove ODM national vice chairman Josephat Nanok and Simon Kachapin, respectively.Nandi Senator Stephen Sang, one of the youngest senators, is bracing to fight financial heavy weight, former Industrialisation minister Henry Kosgey who also wants to throne Governor Cleopa Lagat.Silent Nakuru Senator James Mungai has set his sights on Nakuru governor, while Senators Boni Khalwale and George Khaniri aim to remove Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Moses Akaranga (Vihiga), respectively. Kisumu Senator Anyang' Nyong&rsquo;o seeks to replace Governor Jack Ranguma, while Siaya Senator James Orengo will face Governor Cornel Rasanga.Kisii Senator Chris Obure, who recently ditched ODM for JP, will run against Governor James Ongwae, while Nairobi's Mike Sonko wants to take on Governor Evans Kidero.Nominated senators are not relying on getting second nominations.A number of them have identified seats in single constituencies and county assemblies.Nominated senators Daisy Kanainza (ODM) and Joy Gwendo (JP) are running for Kandunyi and Kisumu East parliamentary seats, respectively. Martha Wangari is going for Gilgil MP.Wangari told the Star she regretted Senators are not allocated resources to initiate development projects in their constituencies."My decision has nothing to do with the position but to change the lives of my people by bringing developent. In the Senate we had to use our little resources for projects," she said.Beatrice Elachi, Senate deputy chief whip, is eyeing Dagoreti North MP, held by Simba Arathi, while her ODM counterpart Janet Ongera is going for Kisii woman representative.Isiolo's Fatuma Dhulo benefited from negotiated democracy and she wants to replace Mohamed Kuti who has been away for two years and is said to be unwell.LIza Chelule is running for Nakuru woman rep, while Judith Sijeny is running for Langata constituency on a Wiper ticket.Naisula Lesuuda is running for Samburu West MP. Emma Mbura, who ditched JP for MCC, is running for Rabai MP.Mandera senator Billow Kerrow will not be seeking election,.Kanu nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony is retiring from politics.