Stay at Forodhani HouseBeing the idyllic tourism hotspot that it is fast becoming, largely attributed to its unspoilt landscapes, intact culture of its friendly inhabitants and sheer beauty, Lamu is teeming with fantastic accommodation options. And yet, by those sandy beaches where one is simply spoilt for choice, I find Forodhani House to be the queen. Imagine a majestic three-storied white villa with five lavishly furnished bedrooms that can accommodate up to 13 guests, all ensuite and with large windows and private terraces overlooking the azure ocean, a lush green garden, swimming pool located right next to a coconut tree growing inside the building and an open dining room from which the friendly staff serve up an array of Swahili cuisine or whatever else your heart desires. This beachfront property with its 270&deg; view of the busy fishermen at the jetty, arriving and departing guests and the numerous dhows as they cruise by is simply the place to be!Sundowner at Peponi Hotel The food and rooms at Peponi Hotel are definitely worth composing ballads about, and yet sundowners here are like a ritual that any visitor must simply participate in. his is the place to see and be seen. With a glass of their signature dawas at hand, mingle with the locals, brush up on your Swahili with the fishermen and dhow captains, trade stories with the welcoming manager and owner as they make their rounds, meet an eclectic array of travelers from far and wide, or simply kick back for some interesting people watching. What&rsquo;s more, the view from the bar of this social hub is simply spectacular. Shop at Aman LamuIn an island where it is common to see people strolling around barefoot in sarongs, this quirky boutique located at the heart of Shela offers visitors beautifully designed breezy kaftans, kimonos, trousers, baskets, satchels, jewellery, sandals and more, handmade from extraordinary fabrics carefully selected from India and Africa. With their distinctively Moroccan vibe, these bohemian yet chic designs are inspired by the rhythm of life in Lamu itself, by owner Sandy Bornman who was born and raised in South Africa but has lived in Lamu for almost two decades now, her love for the place knowing no bounds. Dine at Msafini Hotel and Mango Top Roof.There is nothing quite like tucking into a delectable authentic Swahili dish or seafood under a twinkling carpet of stars while taking in the incredible views of the entire village, dunes and the shimmering sea from Msafini&rsquo;s Mango Top Roof Restaurant. The sunset from this five-storey budget hotel should definitely be on your must-witness list, particularly while sipping some fresh lime or watermelon juice. The family run hotel is only a 2-minute walk away from the sea, with 14 spacious rooms, all ensuite, each with a private balcony offering a glimpse into life in this enchanting village. Enjoy a relaxing dhow cruiseAny house or hotel in Shela will be able to set up a magical dhow cruise, complete with captain, crew if necessary and anything else you require. Imagine catching the setting sun as it splashes the sky in vibrant orange and golden hues, while you cruise along the ocean sipping a glass of merlot and being lulled out of all your worries by soothing Taarab music.LOCATION:Shela village, Lamu IslandCONTACTS:(+254 ) 718 407 480Star rating: 4/5