The UN has appealed for Sh17 billion to to relieve the devastating effects of the drought in northern Kenya. The amount will augment the efforts by the government that on Tuesday released Sh7.4 billion to provide food, water, fodder and other assistance. About three million people face sttarvation. The UN says the Sh17 billion will help close the funding gap in the government’s response. It says the funding deficit stands at Sh11.1 billion against the overall estimated requirement of Sh21.4 billion. “With these funds, humanitarian actors will provide life saving food, health, water and sanitation services to the affected families over the next 10 months,” UN Resident Coordinator in Kenya Siddharth Chatterjee said. Experts have warned the number could rise if the rains fail by the end of April. At least 23 counties have been hard-hit by drought, owing to unreliable rains in the past three years. This has led to the deaths of humans and livestock. The UN says the number of those worst-hit by the food crisis in Kenya has doubled in the past one year to 2.6 million. A similar number lacks access to safe drinking water. The UN says more than 357,000 people, comprising mainly pregnant women, children and new mothers, are acutely malnourished. It says six sub-counties in the arid and semi-arid regions have reported Global Acute Malnutrition rates above the global emergency threshold of 15 per cent. The GAM rates in Turkana, Marsabit and Mandera have exceeded the emergency threshold and recorded above 30 per cent. Special Programmes PS Josephta Mukobe said the Sh7.4 billion released will cover relief efforts to cover February to April. She said the funds were to be used to buy water, food and livestock. The UN has appealed for Sh17 billion to to relieve the devastating effects of the drought in northern Kenya. The amount will augment the efforts by the government that on Tuesday released Sh7.4 billion to provide food, water, fodder and other assistance. About three million people face sttarvation. The UN says the Sh17 billion will help close the funding gap in the government’s response. It says the funding deficit stands at Sh11.1 billion against the overall estimated requirement of Sh21.4 billion. “With these funds, humanitarian actors will provide life saving food, health, water and sanitation services to the affected families over the next 10 months,” UN Resident Coordinator in Kenya Siddharth Chatterjee said. Experts have warned the number could rise if the rains fail by the end of April. At least 23 counties have been hard-hit by drought, owing to unreliable rains in the past three years. This has led to the deaths of humans and livestock. The UN says the number of those worst-hit by the food crisis in Kenya has doubled in the past one year to 2.6 million. A similar number lacks access to safe drinking water. The UN says more than 357,000 people, comprising mainly pregnant women, children and new mothers, are acutely malnourished. It says six sub-counties in the arid and semi-arid regions have reported Global Acute Malnutrition rates above the global emergency threshold of 15 per cent. The GAM rates in Turkana, Marsabit and Mandera have exceeded the emergency threshold and recorded above 30 per cent. Special Programmes PS Josephta Mukobe said the Sh7.4 billion released will cover relief efforts to cover February to April. She said the funds were to be used to buy water, food and livestock.   