After 56 matches of non-stop action across 10 weeks, the 2017 edition of the NPCA Twenty20 enters playoff stage as top two sides Stray Lions and Swamibapa face off tomorrow at Sikh Union.This is the second time the two teams will be battling it out in the qualifier that will determine the first team to make the final cut. The winner of the first qualifier will sail to the final while the loser play in the second qualifiers, where they take on the winner between the third and fourth team in the preliminary round in this case Kanbis and Nairobi Gymkhana.In the first qualifier last year, Swamibapa edged Stray Lions by 19 runs on their way to the title. For Stray Lions, it is an opportunity to continue their immense form; reach a first final and possibly go on to win their first ever title. They stand a chance this time considering their opponents are missing some of their top players.Swamibapa are still without Alex Obanda, Nehemiah Odhiambo and Elijah Otieno, who are with the national team in Nepal while Stray Lions are without Collins Obuya and Shem Obado on the same mission. Despite the absence of their key players, the two teams have players who know a thing or two about performing on the big stage.While many will be expecting this to be a close contest, Stray Lions start favourites. The last time the two sides met, Swamibapa received a hammering courtesy of legend Maurice Odumbe impressive bowling. Odumbe has twice tormented Swamibapa and will once again be expected to play a similar role and extend Stray Lions win over their rivals to four in four matches.While Odumbe will be key in the bowling department for Stray Lions, another old guard, Lameck Onyango, will be the man to watch in the Swamibapa camp. Onyango has led Swamibapa s bowling well to the second place. Apart from Odumbe, Hiren Varaiya, Charles Waiswa, youngster Abisheikh Chidambraman will also play key bowling role.In Swamibapa camp, Saumil Patel, Jadavji Malindi Bhimji and Rakesh Kahar will be tasked to stop the runs flow from Stray Lions. Of the two sides, Stray Lions boost of a strong batting line-up including centurion Shyam Sundar that has seen them get to the knockout stage with a 100 percent record.