Target No 4 is an Arab. He has a thing for black girls and will be an easy mark. He is the last guy on my blackmailing list. The scam is simple. I sleep with him, wait a while and tell him I&rsquo;m pregnant. Oh, did I mention I actually am? But I&rsquo;ll be getting rid of it soon. Once we are done with him and the Prude (Target No 3 ). The Prude and I are all over the Internet, by the way. But that&rsquo;s a story for another day. Right now, my focus is on this last guy. Mr N and I are texting each other about him. Apparently he has a mistress he is in love with. His wife may not be too happy about him knocking up a black girl, either. Mr N has just called me out on my ability to sleep with someone when I have feelings for someone else and I&rsquo;d like to divert the conversation away from me and back to the Arab. Me: I understand Arabs are more into the backdoor than the more traditional approach.Him: In terms of physical relations? Yes.Me: Mmm.Him: Have you ever tried it?Me: No.Him: A virgin, how quaint.Me: Have you?Him: Yes.Me: Did you like it?Him: Yes. Me: Doesn&rsquo;t that make you a little gay?Him: What? No!Me: I&rsquo;m jus&rsquo; saying, it&rsquo;s all the same.Him: It&rsquo;s not. A woman&rsquo;s behind is NOT the same as a man&rsquo;s.Me: Ha ha. If you say so.Him: I say so.Me: You have never tried it with me. Him: Do you want me to?Me: I&rsquo;m just wondering why you haven&rsquo;t.Him: One tends to ease into these things.Me: No pun intended?Him: Ha ha. You&rsquo;re hilarious.I pause. Easy banter with Mr N always makes me feel a little mawkish. I have never tried this kind of thing, which may be surprising, considering my passing interest in BDSM. I wonder what it would be like. This is an odd conversation to have first thing in the morning. I gulp down the rest of my coffee and decide to be bold. Me: Does it hurt?Him: Not if you use a lube.Me: I suppose I&rsquo;ll find out soon enough. Him: No. He has to ring the front door. Me: What if he insists?Him: How will you convince him you&rsquo;re pregnant if you let him use alternate routes?Me: #Alternative FactsHim: Ha ha.Me: I think we should try it first.Him: Me and you?Me: Yes. Just in case, I&rsquo;d like to know what to expect.He takes some time before answering and when he eventually sends a message it has nothing to do with any of this.Him: Who is it you have feelings for?Me: What?Him: Earlier you said you had feelings for someone. Who? Uh uh. Where is he going with this?Me: What does that have to do with anything?Him: You&rsquo;re jumping into bed with every Tom, Dick and Harry. I&rsquo;m just curious about which man actually won you over.Me: If you must know, it&rsquo;s&hellip;Him: Yes?