Migori contractors and suppliers have threatened to stage demonstrations if the county government fails to pay them Sh600 million within 14 days.Through the Migori County Contractors Association, they said they have suffered in silence for long but Governor Okoth Obado&rsquo;s administration has not shown any willingness to pay them. &ldquo;Early this month, the governor went live on air in one of the radio stations, promising to meet all the contractors and suppliers with a view to address our plight. That meeting has not taken place and this was just public relations,&rdquo; association secretary Goodness Oucho told the press in Migori town on Wednesday.Oucho said the Migori Referral Hospital and other public hospitals are the most affected by the standoff, as patients have gone without food for two years as suppliers have not been paid.On Friday, Finance chief officer Samuel Omuga did not reply to our text message.Last October, contractors petitioned MCAs but the petition was not mentioned in the house. &ldquo;Our MCAs chose to go to bed with the executive two and a half years ago and have since refused or forgotten to wake up and report on duty even at this hour when they are just about to face the electorate in the ballot,&rdquo; Oucho said.Contractors also blamed the assembly of not paying them for projects carried out under the Ward Development Fund. He cited the MCAs office block in Suna Central Ward whose certificate of completion was raised way back in July last year. &ldquo;We took bank loans to finance projects. Banks have advertised to auction our property,&rdquo; Oucho said. He said Migori has a small group of &ldquo;super contractors and suppliers&rdquo;, who are connected to Obado&rsquo;s office and are &ldquo;paid just on a single phone call instruction&rdquo;.&ldquo;They are the ones who are being paid regularly at the expense of the common contractor and suppliers. Some are paid upfront and end up not doing the project. We have the details to backup these claims,&rdquo; Oucho said.He said they have given a two weeks ultimatum to be paid all their pending dues, failing which they will hold demonstrations in Migori town. They urged the public, county civil societies, the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry and legislators to join them in pushing for their payment.