Deputy President William Ruto has suspended most political events in his North Rift backyard to avoid interfering with the jubilee nominations. Ruto will, however, host President Uhuru Kenyatta for a series of meetings to launch projects, including new hospitals and roads. Dates for the president’s tour in Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet are yet to be confirmed. “He will not meet delegations or individual aspirants to avoid being seen as favouring any of them with the Jubilee nominations just a month away,” a DP’s aide said. The DP will have selected events like last Friday’s issuing of cheques to dairy farmers in Eldoret town, where most aspirants were absent. “Uhuru and myself have no preferred aspirants in Jubilee and all those who want seats must fight on their own. The party will only come in to support those who will have won,” Ruto said. The DP has cautioned Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and his main rival Bundotich Kiprop, popularly known as Buzeki, to avoid playing clan politics which may divide the Kalenjin community. Ruto said tribal politics is retrogressive and dangerous and that all aspirants and communities should be treated equally. “I do not want to hear of divisive politics because we all know its dangers. No one should divide Kalenjins or other communities just because you want votes,” he said. There has been heated campaigns in the region where the entry of Buzeki into the race for governor sparked rivalry between the Nandi and Keiyo, who are the main Kalenjin subtribes. Mandago is from the Nandi community while Buzeki is a Keiyo. Buzeki has said his aim is to unite all communities in the county that is highly cosmopolitan. Former registrar at the judiciary Gladys Shollei and Prof Margaret Kamar are from the Keiyo community and are front runners for the woman representative and Senate seats. Analysts say the Kalenjin subtribe rivalry and the non-Kalenjin votes will likely determine the winners during the Jubilee primaries next month. Ruto said all aspirants and communities have to be treated equally. Mandago, Buzeki and former health chief officer in Nandi Edward Serem presented their nomination papers last week and were given the green light to vie. Buzeki said he is confident his ambition and plan to make Uasin Gishu county great again would be achieved. Serem also confirmed that he had been cleared by the party. The race for governor in the Jubilee nominations will likely be a two-horse race between Buzeki and Mandago. Serem said he is confident the race was in his favour. Buzeki says all kinds of propaganda to tarnish his candidature would not work.