The 28-man national team for the forthcoming Kenya Open championship yesterday got a shot in the arm when Sports Kenya donated Sh2 million towards players&rsquo; incentives.Sports Kenya chairman, Fred Muteti while presenting the sponsorship cheque, said the package is geared towards whipping up the enthusiasm of Kenyan golfers.Muteti said Sport Kenya will continue partnering with Kenya Open Golf Limited in ensuring a Kenyan wins the coveted title which has remained elusive since inception in 1967. The sponsorship package will support a team of 28 players who include 22 pros and six amateurs. The Kenyan team was through the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (formerly Goty series) ranking.&ldquo;We are donating Sh2m towards Team Kenya allowances and facilitations just to ensure Kenya golfers go into the event with the requisite confidence and preparedness. This is geared towards motivating the players to ensure they perform well in the four-day event,&rdquo; said Muteti. KOGL sponsorship director, SR Macharia, thanked Sports Kenya for the gesture, adding that such initiatives can go a long way in realising Kenya&rsquo;s first winner in the event.&ldquo;We thank Sports Kenya for the unique gesture. This is the first time they are partnering with KOGL to support our Kenya team which is very encouraging as no Kenyan has won the Kenya Open. Other professionals come well prepared both in terms of practice and play, so it&rsquo;s good to see locals being accorded some good treatment,&rdquo; said Macharia.Meanwhile, the total prize kitty for the 2017 Barclays Kenya Open is Euros 220,000 (Sh24.42m). This makes the event one of the &lsquo;richest&rsquo; on the European Challenge Tour. To qualify for a share of this prize money, players will have to make the dreaded cut after the second round on Friday. Last year, Kenya had only three players making the cut. They were Dismas Indiza, Mathew Omondi and Bryan Njoroge. The winner of the Kenya Open 2017 will take home Sh3.91m and the other top five players will pocket Sh2.686m, Sh1.71m, Sh1.465 and Sh1.221m.