Britain will donate over Sh500 million to complement Kenya's efforts towards mitigating the current drought, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has said. Johnson said at a press conference in Nairobi on Friday that they are ready to support Kenya in dealing with the situation. "The UK will give out 4 million pounds (Sh509 million) to aid malnourished children as well as tackle drought effects," he said.  This was after Johnson visited drought-stricken Laikipia county in the wake of numerous attacks in the recent months. "Johnson visited Lewa wildlife conservancy this morning to see UK support for conservation and communities," UK High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey wrote on Twitter. He also awarded "Long Service Good Conduct" medal to Mohamed Shan at the British Training Unit in Nanyuki.  The British official said he was happy with the state declaration of drought as a national disaster. The government made the declaration on February 10 following the drought that has affected 23 counties - most of which are in arid and semi-arid areas. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in this regard, urged local and international agencies to support the affected Kenyans. Read: Kenya declares drought national disaster, asks for help More on this: Uhuru reaffirms plan to distribute relief food to drought-hit schools  Johnson, while reminiscing his childhood days in Kenya, said the country has changed immensely over the years. "I first came to Kenya when I was 12 years-old. I watched President Jomo Kenyatta making a speech to a crowd of people," he said. "More tourists need to visit Kenya. The change and progress in Kenya is very moving," the Foreign Secretary said.  Johnson, citing that 65 per cent of coffee consumed in London comes from Kenya, said the UK now has an opportunity to open up trade in the country. Armed cattle herders, in search of scarce pasture, have driven tens of thousands of cattle into private farms and ranches. The tour comes days after a British army veteran Tristan Voorspuy was killed on March 5 while inspecting his lodges. Voorspuy's body was left at the scene for more than 24 hours owing to the volatile security situation. Read: British father of two shot dead at Sosian ranch in Laikipia Also read: States declares seven Laikipia areas 'dangerous, disturbed'