MPs yesterday had mixed reactions to this year&rsquo;s Sh2.6 trillion budget.Some praised the Treasury for tough taxation measures to control the gaming, betting and lottery industry, while some said it would run them out of business.National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale said the 50 per cent tax proposal on revenue from the lucrative industry would save society. &ldquo;This is a deterrent and punitive measure to save society. We now need enforcement agencies to move in and regulate this sector,&rdquo; he said.Duale said the Treasury should now turn its focus to controlling the skyrocketing public sector wage bill, debt sustainability and revenue collection. Deputy minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo, who has constantly called for tougher rules to regulate the betting industry, said the problem is not about taxation but rather regulation. &ldquo;There is nothing to celebrate here. A good government cannot be in the business of driving other businesses out of business,&rdquo; he said, adding the hefty taxes will drive companies out of business. Midiwo said the taxation only targetted online gambling and the formal sector.&ldquo;The government should do more to regulate the business environment so those Chinese machines doing backstreet gambling should also be controlled. Jubilee has never prepared a budget that revives the livelihoods of poor Kenyans,&rdquo; he said.Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba termed the budget &ldquo;generally good&rdquo; with an emphasis on the poor.&ldquo;Nothing resonates with Kenyans now more than the zero-rating of the prices of basic commodities, this was generally a good budget,&rdquo; he said.Namwamba said the government should now be stricter in enforcing the policies to ensure they trickle down to the common man.Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura described this year&rsquo;s budget as balanced, with a special empasis on the elderly and people living with disability.&ldquo;Nobody would imagine betting companies are making billions of shillings. This money must be recouped to support the youth,&rdquo; he said. Emurua Dikirr MP Joana Ng&rsquo;eno said cartels in the agriculture industry will take advantage of the window to import tax-free white maize to flood the market.