Mombasa politicians are ignorant and have misled residents on national government projects, State House yesterday said.He said international donors fund projects through the national government, thus they qualify to be branded national government ventures. It occurs to me that some leaders in this part of the world don t actually know how loans work, Esipisu said."If the government borrows money from the World Bank, the African Development Bank or any regional banks to implement development projects, it s really a project of the national government."He was speaking at State House, Mombasa.Esipisu said it is the national government that procures the funding and proposes the repayment of the loans.Other entities like the county governments can also come in as partners in the implementation of the projects, he said. I have seen suggestions that in fact the national government shouldn t praise itself for the projects that are funded by the World Bank, the African Development Bank or other donor agencies," Esipisu said. That is complete hogwash. It s a sign of ignorance of an order that is difficult to understand. On January 5, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho told off President Uhuru in his presence, accusing him of riding on donor-funded projects and taking credit for them.He spoke in Bamburi at the launch of phase two of the Mombasa storm water drainage improvement project by Uhuru.Joho was irked that Uhuru had earlier at Buxton said the Jubilee government had pumped Sh600 million in the construction of the Buxton footbridge.The projected was funded by the World Bank.This caused yet another rift between Joho and Uhuru in a long line of incidents that have put the two leaders at loggerheads.Esipisu said the Naivasha Dry Port has also been a subject of misleading statements by politicians in Mombasa and the Coast.He said the dry port and the Mombasa port serve different purposes.Naivasha is being set up as an industrial park. The goods that would get to the inland port will still need to get to the Mombasa port first, Esipisu said.This will increase the work at the Mombasa port, he said. Work with me to educate the leadership here so that they understand better how economies and shipping work so that they can explain to the people of Mombasa that in fact with an inland port like that in Naivasha work will increase in the port of Mombasa, said Esipisu.He said the Jubilee administration is not obsessed with control of the projects. What we worry about is, are services being delivered to the Kenyan people? Are those services being done quickly and with efficiency? And are Kenyan people pleased about what is happening?" Esipisu said.He said nobody raised any issue when the national government pumped Sh400 million in the refurbishment of Kongowea market. Esipisu said the Jubilee administration will implement the Mzima 2 water project in Taita Taveta in the 2017-18 budget. It will serve the areas of Voi, Wundanyi, Taveta and Mwatate while the excess water will serve the people of Mombasa and Kilifi, he said.