Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has denied claims that he forged a KCSE certificate to get admission to the University of Nairobi. The claim is that Joho presented a forged 1992 examination result slip with a  C+ mean grade. This was for a Bachelor of Commerce degree in Human Resource Management. But the Governor, through county communications director Richard Chacha, said Jubilee manipulated some documents to suit its narrative. Circulated documents should not be relied upon, Chacha said on Monday, adding only UoN can provide the actual position. Chacha said Joho sat his KCSE in 1993 and scored a C+, and later undertook bridging courses before enrolling for a degree at UoN. "The only person who can lay bare the truth is University of Nairobi," he said. "The documents he provided clearly show he sat KCSE at the school." A man named Juma Hamid said he and the Governor were classmates at Serani Secondary School when one Mohamed Ali was principal. Hamid said Joho was a cheerful student and that they sat KCSE in 1993. "The new development is political. The governor was known at the school as Hassan Ali," he said, adding that Joho did not reveal his results to him. "Joho was an average student. These reports are just propaganda. How can they claim he was not in class?" A letter from Knec purported that the county boss' KCSE papers were forged. Acting chief executive Mercy Karogo said in a letter to the DCI Ndegwa Muhoro, said they proved that the documents presented to the council were fake. "Following your request for verification and confirmation of examination results… Joho Hassan Ali neither registered nor sat for the year 1992 KCSE examination at Serani Secondary School under index number 160092024," Karogo said quoting records in the Knec database. She wrote to Muhoro in response to a letter by the DCI for verification and confirmation of Joho’s examination results. The details indicate that the centre code for Serani that year was 16032, not 160092, as indicated in Joho's documents to the examination council. The revelations have been treated as part of a wider scheme to get rid of the Governor politically. Joho has been brushing shoulders with Jubilee leaders including President Uhuru Kenyatta, following his stance against the "excesses" of the current administration. Read: Ruto to deal with 'uneducated' Joho over threats to sue Mvurya Ananiah Mwaboza, who is Jubilee’s Mombasa deputy governor candidate, also said Joho scored a D- (minus) in the 1993 examinations. "He did not complete his O level in 1992 as purported. He deliberately forged the 1992 KCSE result slip," he said. Mwaboza said this was to achieve the C+ grade which is the minimum requirement for a degree course. The former Kisauni MP and MOmbasa deputy governor aspirant claimed the governor registered for exams as Ali Hassan of Index Number 16032/063. "The register has a student named Hassan Ali of admission number 326. The said entered the school on February 22, 1990," Mwaboza said. He said the said student - index number 16032/023 - was the one who got a D- and his parent’s name is Ali Joho of Box 80740." Mwaboza claims Joho was enrolled at Gretsa University for a bachelor of arts in community development using the 1993 results. Serani deputy principal Charo Fondo declined to comment saying only principal Abas Ulaya is allowed to speak to the media. When the Star visited the school, Ulaya was said to have been in an interview. And Mwaboza questioned why action has not been taken against Joho. "Hassan Ali Joho should be held to account for the forgery of a result slip whose copy he presented to the UoN," he said. Mwaboza claimed Joho attended evening classes at the UoN and sat only two exams, and abandoned the course midway. Also read: Top politicians with 'questionable' academic papers 