The National Super Alliance principals keep assuring Kenyans of two things: One, that their flagbearer will be chosen through a fair process involving consensus. Two, that they will not split up when that standard bearer is chosen. To this we can add the chances are unless condition one is met (a free, fair and consensus-driven process) then condition two is likely to explode in their faces.The reason why some of the NASA principals may yet opt to run on their own is revealed in what happened with two key national leaders who at the last election ran for county level office on their own party tickets Najib Balala of the Republican Party and Charity Ngilu of Narc. NOT THE END OF THE ROAD Ngilu failed in her quest to become the senator from Kitui and Balala the senator from Mombasa. But their electoral defeat was not the end of the road, for thereafter they promptly negotiated their way into the first Jubilee Cabinet. And although Ngilu ultimately left the Cabinet amid abuse-of-office allegations, this is Balala s third consecutive ministerial stint across 15 years. With these two examples in mind, none of the four leaders at the NASA helm, except perhaps for Raila Odinga, should lack for options should they feel they have been badly treated over the selection process for flagbearer. In other words, they could end up in the Cabinet even if they walk out of NASA. It cannot be taken for granted that NASA will remain united if the process of selecting the standard bearer is not carried out in a manner acceptable to each and every one of the contenders and their extended constituencies. This brings us to the question of what would constitute a fair and transparent process so as to guarantee that NASA does not break up. THE LIKELIHOOD OF FINAL VICTORY On this issue, there are three main considerations: One, the likelihood of final victory. In a column written in the run-up to the 2016 US presidential election, a commentator specified that there are two things essential to presidential polls when the voters are roughly divided into two equal opposing camps. In the first place, you must have a candidate that arouses strong passions in the party s supporters and inspires them to turn out in large numbers to vote. However, this candidate must also be somewhat acceptable to the opposing side so that they do not feel any powerful resentment towards him, leading to a low turnout. This point explains how Raila, who is undoubtedly the most effective jukwaa campaigner in Kenya, has not had much luck in his quest for the presidency. Much as he may be loved by a very sizeable percentage of voters, he is hated and feared in equal measure by so many other voters that they will wake up at 4am and queue for hours to cast their votes if that is what it takes to keep Raila out of State House. Indeed, it could be persuasively argued that what enabled Mwai Kibaki to prevail in 2002 is not so much that many Kenyans were aware of his brilliance in economic management, but rather that he was in no way objectionable to about the entire population of Kenya and even those who did not vote for him were not quivering in fear when they learnt that he had won. What all this adds up to is that the NASA candidate for President must be the person who will most substantially appeal to the widest possible cross-section of voters nationwide, rather than just one who appeals to those already in the Alliance s brigades. NASA is only formidable if its four principals remain together and collectively project an image of unstoppable momentum. But this momentum could come to a shuddering halt if any of these four principals should be made to feel that they have been unfairly denied the opportunity to compete for the joint opposition nomination ticket. These are important factors. For if it should seem likely that NASA may well break up before the election; or if it should appear as though NASA is doomed to defeat; then those who do not become the NASA presidential and deputy presidential candidates will find it expeditious to negotiate for Cabinet positions with JP, just as Balala and Ngilu did in 2013. And that will be the end of the road for NASA. THE RELEVANCE OF EXPERIENCE One of the points most frequently made about NASA is that its leadership comprises some of the most experienced politicians currently seeking elective office. Raila was Kenya s second Prime Minister, and before that President Daniel Moi s minister for Energy and President Mwai Kibaki s minister for Roads; Kalonzo was a long-serving minister for Foreign Affairs and the 10th and last VP; Mudavadi has been Minister for Transport and Communications, as well as a sterling Finance minister and (very briefly) Moi s VP; and Moses Wetang ula has served as minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as minister for Trade. All four NASA principals played central roles in the Grand Coalition government of 2008-13, led by President Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila. One thing the successes of the Kibaki era taught us is that you need a president who has a mastery of the most critical dockets in his government and can thus supervise them directly. In Raila s memoirs, The Flame of Freedom, he makes the revelation that when he insisted the ministry of Finance should be on his side of the Grand Coalition divide, President Kibaki would not budge and told him that no matter who was minister at the Treasury, that person was there for PR purposes only as it was the President himself who actually ran the place. Kibaki had previously been Finance minister for 14 years straddling the Jomo Kenyatta and the Daniel Moi presidencies. The importance of this cannot be exaggerated. Indeed, one thing most Kenyans readily agree on is that Kibaki engineered a powerful resurrection of the economy in the post-Kanu era, taking the country from a poor and developing to a middle-income nation in just 10 years. As it happens, the current government is overwhelmed by debt alongside demands for greater public expenditure, especially from the devolved county governments and for national public infrastructure. In these circumstances, it would be absolutely crucial that the NASA flagbearer be someone with extensive experience in the dockets of Finance and Infrastructure. Circumstances would therefore appear to favour Raila, a former Roads minister who is said to have laid the groundwork for the massive improvement of the national road network that took place on President Kibaki s watch. Not dissimilar circumstances seem to favour Mudavadi, who served as minister for Finance under Kanu during a time when Kenya had a President whose economic management was not the strongest point. So, Mudavadi, unlike the Finance ministers under Kibaki (David Mwiraria, Amos Kimunya and Uhuru Kenyatta), actually ran the ministry under circumstances that were much more demanding in the late Nyayo era. It was also a time when Kenya was not exactly a darling of the donor community and there were entrenched interests and predatory power brokers at every corner eager to perpetuate the it s our turn to eat attitude. Indeed, it can be said without hesitation that if NASA is serious about ending corruption and strengthening the economy, then Mudavadi has a head start over the other NASA leaders. But equally sterling anti-corruption credentials can be claimed by Kalonzo. Despite being an insider of the Moi political establishment, Kalonzo has never been accused of the kind of massive graft that most Cabinet ministers of those years seemed to consider to be their entitlement. Long considered the Mr Clean of Kenyan politics, Kalonzo is certainly a man equipped to tackle corruption in his capacity as a non-beneficiary of the vice. However, he lacks one thing that would certainly count as essential for any such anti-graft effort: The proven capacity to take very difficult decisions that come with heavy political costs. A CAPACITY FOR STRONG DECISIONS, ACTION There are two things about Raila that are remarked by both friend and foe. First is that as President Kibaki s minister for Roads, he pioneered the process of aggressively reclaiming public road reserves that had been dished out all over the country as political reward and patronage during the Moi era. Up to the time when Kibaki appointed Raila Roads minister, such was the epidemic of land-grabbing that hardly anyone believed it was possible to reclaim a wide road reserve on which middle class housing had been erected. And then Raila called out the bulldozers and flattened elegant new homes built in some of Nairobi s most desired neighbourhoods. The message was brutally explicit: If you owned land on what was previously a road reserve you, really had no option but to give it up. The other bold decision that Raila made, and which ultimately proved to be far more expensive to him politically, was the eviction of settlers in the Mau Forest. These were men and women who had bought plots of land they believed had valid title deeds only to find the Kibaki government invalidating these titles and burning their homes, schools and churches as armed police stood guard. The forest settlers found themselves left to the elements on muddy roadsides. So, there can be no doubt whatever of Raila s capacity for making strong decisions and following through even in the face of guaranteed resentment and the loss of political capital. However, much the same can be said of Mudavadi, who is widely credited with slaying the Goldenberg dragon in the Moi era. In other words, if the point of reference is who has a history of proven success in ending the massive looting of public funds and putting the government s finances on a new and steady footing, then that NASA leader would be Mudavadi. WILL LIGHTNING STRIKE TWICE?In 2002, as the Moi transition election shimmered on the horizon, the united opposition had long reached the obvious consensus: That what they needed was a uniting figure, who could keep their National Rainbow Coalition focussed on defeating Moi s chosen heir, Uhuru, at the presidential ballot box. The other obvious point of consensus (though this was somehow hidden from the public) was that this candidate had to be an elderly man, who would be content to serve just one term, and then give way to the ambitions of younger men. Three candidates fitted this bill: Former Cabinet ministers Simeon Nyachae and Moody Awori and former VP Kibaki. In the end it was Kibaki who was selected; Awori remained in Narc, and was to eventually serve as Kibaki s Vice President, after the death of VP Kijana Wamalwa; while Nyachae launched his own bid for president, but was not able to make any headway against the Narc juggernaut. The questions we now face are: Will NASA be lucky enough to power on to victory, even if one or more of their co-principals should take off to make their own independent run for president, knowing all along that even if they fail, they can broker a deal with Uhuru s Jubilee Party? Or will NASA remain united, and with the recent addition of the Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties to the viable swing-vote areas for this election deliver a historic defeat to a sitting President? What is for certain is that nothing less than Solomonic Wisdom combined with a willingness to sacrifice personal ambitions will be required on this matter of the selection of the NASA presidential candidate. And that is a rare, once in a generation (or longer) attribute indeed.