Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the taxman to freeze his bank accounts. He said the plot is to cripple him financially and force him on his knees. Joho said the freezing of his accounts came days after Uhuru threatened to “deal” and “flog” him. He said definition of "beat and flog" was relative and the meaning could vary. Earlier, KRA officer Justus Kiuvu, wrote to Diamond Trust Bank asking information on Joho’s transactions since 2011. On Wednesday, on NTV live interview, Joho said his accounts had been frozen. He did not specify about the closure. The governor has accounts at Barclays, Stanbic and Diamond Trust banks. “I will not be buried with cash. They have closed my accounts and I am not complaining. Money comes from God,” he said. But as far as KRA is concerned, only the account at Diamond Trust Bank is under scrutiny. Joho’s aide Richard Chacha said the freeze came immediately KRA wrote the letter. “The moment they start investigating an account, it’s normally frozen,” he said on the phone yesterday. For a long time, ruling regimes have weakened threats by crippling them financially. Legislation that will in one way or the other affect investments of government critics, were passed by pro-state legislators. The tactics were common during the Moi era. It is against this backdrop that Joho, also the ODM deputy party leader, feels Jubilee wants to cripple him financially to prevent him from undertaking his political and personal cause. In January last year, the government shut down two container freight stations belonging to Joho’s family. The closure followed a letter from the Kenya Ports Authority to the stations’ management, notifying them they would not be allowed to receive cargo from the harbour. But days later, KRA linked the closure of the container depots to tax evasion probe, saying licences for companies that breach customs law will be suspended. "Recent incidents and investigations have raised serious concerns over the likely involvement of some CFSs in actions that abet tax evasion," KRA commissioner general John Njiraini said. Joho also said he has no personal grudge with the President. “I don’t have any personal hatred with anyone. My political stand is to better the lives of my people and that’s all I want to do,” he said. The public has been made to believe there is a deep animosity between the two leaders and their feud extends beyond politics. However, Uhuru also clarified he has nothing personal against Joho. This comes even as survey conducted by the Trends and Insight for Africa suggested that 71 per cent of 550 respondents did not support Uhuru’s move to block Joho from attending the Mtongwe launch early this month. Mombasa was brought to a standstill after the strategy to block Joho that involved mounting of road blocks caused huge traffic snarl ups on March 13.