The parliamentary Lands Committee has recommended revocation of all title deeds irregularly allocated to individuals in the Nzukini Settlement Scheme, Yatta subcounty.Residents say powerful people in government have wrongly received title deeds. They say they have received threatening messages, telling them to give up their claims and vacate.The parliamentary team toured the constituency on Friday to probe evictions and demolition of 15 families at Ikongeni village in November last year. Residents were reportedly evicted at 2am. MPs told residents to stay put until the dispute is resolved.The probe was initiated following a petition by Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi after unidentified people raided the village in November last year and brought down 15 houses. &ldquo;We will involve NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri to ensure any title deed irregularly issued is revoked,&rdquo; committee chair and Tharaka MP Alex Mwiru said. He urged the NLC to audit and review allotment letters and title deeds, which residents claimed had illegally been issued to powerful individuals in government.The committee also directed area administrators to increase security in the scheme.Mwiru was accompanied by committee members MPs Bernard Bett (Bomet East), Itwiku Mbai (Masinga) and Kericho woman representative Hellen Chepkwony. Mwangangi also attended.He called for action against former Matuu OCS Gladys Wanjala, who is said to have supervised demolitions. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t expect a senior police officer to supervise an illegal act by a criminal gang at such a late hour of the night. For that simple reason, we are demanding the National Police Service take action against that officer,&rdquo; Mwangangi said.Last month, residents said they were still living in fear.They said they continue to receive threatening messages from unidentified people who want them to leave.The families said they have lived there for more than 42 years. &ldquo;Since that night when our houses were brought down by hired youths guarded by police, we have never had peace. Our children are traumatised because they keep screaming every time they see or hear a vehicle coming,&rdquo; resident Veronica Mutua said. When the houses were demolished, Yatta police boss Edward Changach said they acted according to a court order that had been granted to the alleged owner of the disputed land.