The mad rush to sack and replace Auditor General Edward Ouko is Kenya’s boldest manifestation of the adage ‘The guilty are afraid’. They are afraid of Ouko’s independence and honest determination to execute his constitutional mandate – investigating the financial terrorism and socioeconomic rape of the country that are prevalent in public offices under this regime. The guilty tried to use the tyranny of numbers in Parliament to irregularly change the law to snatch away the powers and independence of the Auditor General. Two years ago an influential clique working in cahoots with Jubilee power barons in the Executive and in business proposed amendments to, among other things, make the critical office a department under the Office of the President. Such changes required a referendum. They withdrew. Later they attempted to frame him on criminal charges, including corruption, bribe taking and nepotism. They involved the EACC. Twice DPP Keriako Tobiko has turned down the EACC recommendation to prosecute Ouko. It is noteworthy that the DPP made the announcement just a day after lamenting that some powerful forces had been pushing him to prosecute Ouko. In an evidently pre-planned counter-attack, to side step the DPP’s office in ‘mission Ouko must go’, a motion to kick him out has been presented to Parliament and fast-tracked. Could someone be counting on the tyranny of numbers to do some mob justice? When was the last time this Jubilee “parliamentary mob” was used for the good of the country? This desperate attempt proves that ‘mission Ouko must go’ has all along been a top priority for Jubilee. And no wonder, President Uhuru Kenyatta last year castigated Ouko at State House, Nairobi (on live television), for pursuing investigations into the Eurobond scandal all the way to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The bank handled the bulk of the missing billions whose whereabouts the Executive does not want to explain or have investigated. It is illegal to frustrate investigations into a crime, or interfere with the work of an independent constitutional office. Eurobond is Kenya’s biggest ever financial scandal. It qualifies as an economic crime. It is Jubilee’s waking nightmare. They want Kenyans to forget about it. But Ouko’s investigations threaten to reveal the truth. This sinister anti-Ouko campaign is meant to cover up corruption and protect culprits in high office. Ouko is exposing their crimes and must be stopped. Little wonder Jubilee maliciously manipulated the Auditor General’s office regulations to forcibly and illegally create the position of a substantive Deputy Auditor General to undermine and frame Ouko. The first occupant retired without accomplishing the mission. He got trapped in the schemes and now faces prosecution, and possible imprisonment. They loathe his audacity to dig out corruption scandals in the public sector, some of which have indicted many Jubilee sacred cows. The Jubilee crimes Ouko’s office has unearthed include, the hustler’s jet scandal, the National Youth Service looting, the Youth Enterprise Fund rip-off, the Eurobond mega scandal, the standard gauge railway inflations and the Mafya House (Ministry of Health) scandal, among others. The EACC and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations have suspiciously failed to investigate them. Jubilee hardliners and ultra-loyalists are scared of Ouko because he is the last man standing in the compromised anti-corruption infrastructure. The EACC and DCI have proved incapable of fighting corruption and abuse of office. The Judiciary is in a quandary, while the Executive clearly appears to be a cog in the corruption networks. 