ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday met Kisauni MP hopeful Ali Mbogo, fueling speculation the latter might rejoin ODM. Mbogo moved to Wiper after ditching the Orange party in February, citing frustration by the ODM leadership in Mombasa county. The politician alleged a plot to rig him out of the ODM nominations. Raila met with Mbogo at Nyali few hours after the NASA co-principal arrived in Mombasa ahead of the Sunday's ODM rally at Tononoka grounds. "I am currently having a meeting with the ODM party leader at his residence in Nyali," Mbogo said on his supporter's WhatsApp group. He did not give details of what transpired at the meeting but there has been speculation that the party is keen on wooing him back to its fold. Nyali MP hopeful and journalist Mohamed Ali was also at the meeting. Mbogo, a prominent businessman in Mombasa with interests in the oil sector, is yet to comment on the speculated move. He is seen as a serious threat to incumbent Rashid Bedzimba’s chances of retaining the parliamentary seat. In October last year, Mbogo claimed Raila had promised him direct nomination while they were on a five-day business trip to Germany. This caused disquiet in the ODM camp as Bedzimba is a close ally of ODM deputy party leader and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Joho has been campaigning for the MP’s re-election. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka endorsed the legislator's candidature on February 11 at Kadongo grounds. Kalonzo referred to the MP as a political offspring of former Kisauni MP the late Karisa Maitha. Political observers posit that Mbogo’s meeting with Raila might further strain relations between ODM and Wiper in Mombasa. Already, at least eight MCAs in the county have ditched ODM for the Kalonzo party. ODM has also reportedly convinced Jomvu MP Badi Twalib to rejoin the party. Badi, who is expected to be officially welcomed back to ODM in Sunday’s rally, is a close ally of Joho. He has been campaigning for the governor's re-election despite the bid by Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar. The Jomvu MP was with ODM leaders who received Raila when he landed at Moi International Airport on Saturday. 