Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and NASA&rsquo;s entire Coast team will tour the region and hold major rallies to counter President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s &lsquo;propaganda&rsquo;.The tour starts tomorrow in Taita Taveta and aims to counter Jubilee&rsquo;s gains at the Coast and Uhuru&rsquo;s arrest of and tirade against Joho on Monday.Joho says he will prove that Coast is still a NASA stronghold.Uhuru said he would &ldquo;discipline&rdquo; Joho, &ldquo;sort him out&rdquo; and &ldquo;teach him a lesson.&rdquo; He said Joho should not follow him around, as &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not his wife&rdquo;.The NASA campaigns will culminate in a major rally in the Tononoka Grounds on March 26.Its four principals &mdash; Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi &mdash; are expected to attend that event.Joho, the ODM deputy leader and Coast kingpin, has been targetted by Uhuru and DP William Ruto with a fusillade of personal attacks.On Monday, Joho was stopped from attending the Mtongwe ferry service relaunch presided over by Uhuru.State House ordered Joho be barred from the public venue and public event until it was over.Jubilee says it had intelligence that the opposition had hired thugs and planned to disrupt the event.Mombasa county built the road and streetlights to the ferry terminal. Ferry transport is a devolved function, but KFS is a national government parastatal.COUNTER MISINFORMATIONThe opposition also plans to focus on what they call misinformation peddled to residents by JP leaders.Governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and John Mruttu (Taita Taveta) will help fire up the rallies.The rallies will be Joho&rsquo;s opportunity to fight back against humiliation by the Jubilee regime.Yesterday, the Jubilee team led by governor aspirant Suleiman Shahbal accused Joho of using underhand tactics to derail beneficial initiatives.In a press conference, Shahbal and running mate Anania Mwaboza said Joho deliberately removed their traffic marshalls. They said this was intended to create chaos and prevent Uhuru and Ruto from reaching Mtongwe in time to relaunch ferry services.Shahbal called the tactics are childish and an attempt to divert attention from county failures. &ldquo;What has he done with our Sh40 billion?&rdquo; Shahbal asked. Mwaboza said the Auditor General&rsquo;s 2015-16 report indicates only one percent was for development.&ldquo;What has he done with 99 per cent?&rdquo; he asked. Joho says Treasury only gave Sh17 billion over four years.Shahbal and Mwaboza said residents want development and not political drama. They said Mtongwe has been a ghost town since collapse of ferry services after the 1994 disaster in which 272 people perished. Joho&rsquo;s aide Richard Chacha, said, &ldquo;We will respond to Uhuru.&rdquo;&ldquo;The aim is to consolidate NASA support and correct falsehoods spread by Jubilee,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll tell the people the truth. Whatever they promised and failed to deliver will be laid bare. Coast grievances have not been resolved and we will vote for NASA to fix them.&rdquo;In Taita Taveta, JP has won over MP Joyce Lay and Senator Dan Mwazo.On Saturday, Joho, Kingi and Mruttu head to Lamu, stricken by terror attacks in June 2014. Two of its MPs are in Jubilee. Governor Issa Timamy, is noncombative, an ANC member.On Sunday, governors head to Tana River, where boss Hussein Dado recently ditched Wiper for Jubilee.On Tuesday next week, hugely popular Kingi plays host. He will face JP&rsquo;s Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro and Kadu Asili&rsquo;s Kazungu Kambi on August 8.Two days later, Joho and others land in Kwale. Its head, deputy and host of MPs dumped the opposition for Jubilee. This will be the final rally before the big rally on the 26th.