Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho would be reelected by a wide margin if polls were held today, a survey has indicated. According to poll results released yesterday by Trends and Insights for Africa(TIFA), the incumbent was leading with a margin of 68 per cent. This compared to aspirants Suleiman Shahbal with 15 per cent and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar at seven per cent, it suggested. According to poll MD Maggie Ireri, though Uhuru had frequented the region and launched projects, it was clear from the survey the Mombasa remains a NASA stronghold. Ireri disputed claims the feuding between Uhuru and Joho made Joho and NASA surge in popularity beyond Jubilee. “It’s the first time we have conducted such a poll so we cannot categorically say whether it is the stand-off that has seen NASA and Joho stand out as preferred party and candidate,” she said. The survey of 550 eligible voters was conducted between March 16 and 18. The margin of error was +/- 4 per cent, with a 95 per cent degree of confidence. Sixty-six per cent of respondents said they feel closer to NASA, compared with 23 per cent who feel closer to the Jubilee Party. Ireri said 71 per cent of the respondents did not support Uhuru’s move to lock out Joho from the Mtongwe ferry event. “In terms of party affiliations, 84 per cent of NASA supporters feel President Uhuru was unfair in the way he treated Joho. This compared to 54 per cent of Jubilee supporters who feel the President was right,” Ireri said. Fight for the kingpin For the past year, the Coast has been shaping up as a main battleground for JP and the opposition. Jubilee has been wooing all six counties, especially Mombasa, and bashing Joho and ODM governors. JP has poached key opposition leaders in the region. In the last five months, Uhuru and his team have visited Mombasa and the Coast at least three times, making inroads in the opposition stronghold. The onslaught by Uhuru has seen Joho, ODM’s deputy party leader, clash with the President. The pollster said 64 per cent of respondents consider the governor the Coast political leader, compared to nine per cent who prefer Tourism CS Najib Balala and six per cent who choose Senator Omar. The survey established that 57 per cent of respondents were undecided on who to elect for Senate. However, incumbent Hassan Omar was still popular with 13 per cent, followed closely by Abdusalaam Kaasim at 12 per cent and Mohamed Abbas at seven per cent. Ireri said 44 per cent would vote for ODM’s Mishi Mboko as woman representative compared to three per cent who prefer Jubilee’s Hazel Katana. Another 36 per cent are undecided on woman representative. Mombasa county had 408,747 registered voters in 2013, according to the IEBC. During the mass voter registration that ended on February 14, some 141,686 new voters were listed, bringing the total to 550,433. The final list of registered voters is yet to be released. Governor-president clash Joho’s confrontation with Uhuru started when the government promised to buy Waitiki land occupied by squatters and allocate it to them. However, he later ordered each occupant pay Sh182,000 to acquire title deeds. Landowner Evanson Waitiki was evicted from his 930 acres in 1997 during the Kaya Bombo clashes. Container freight stations belonging to Joho’s families were shut down in January 2016. The feud spilled over to court, in what was seen as an attempt to constrain his family financially. KRA claimed the CFSs had evaded tax and were used to smuggle goods. Joho’s and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi’s security was withdrawn on January 6. This was seen as a show of might, after the two criticised the President during his Coast tour. They said the state was “hijacking” local projects. Police said the officers were withdrawn for routine reorganisation. Security was restored on January 10, as leaders slammed the government for withdrawing it. In February, the state ordered county traffic marshals be withdrawn for allegedly clearing the road for the governor and VIPs, causing unnecessary traffic jams. At the weekend in Lamu, Joho said the President had ordered KRA to investigate his bank accounts from 2011. He said the state is free to investigate. Uhuru said Joho’s government has received Sh40 billion in four years and wasted it. Joho says the amount was Sh16 billion. CRA said the amount was around Sh21 billion.