The President has referred to&nbsp; Governor Josephat Nanok as a fool and a devil after claims that his government has allocated Turkana county insufficient funds. An agitated President Uhuru Kenyatta, who spoke in Kiswahili, also responded to claims that he has&nbsp;interests in the county's oil. He said no one should tell Kenyans the lie about him needing oil belonging to others. "Mtu&nbsp;akisimama&nbsp;hapa&nbsp; aseme&nbsp; ati&nbsp;Uhuru&nbsp; ako&nbsp; na&nbsp; haja&nbsp; na&nbsp; mafuta&nbsp;ya&nbsp; wengine...ashindwe..shetani&nbsp; mshenzi..."&nbsp; he said. This loosely translates to:" If someone comes and says that Uhuru has interests in others' oil, he should be defeated..devil...fool..." Nanok, who spoke during Uhuru's tour of the county on Wednesday, had said the government had trillions for counties but that this declined to Sh22 billion.He said the rate for allocations to communities declined from 10 per cent to five per cent and that a Sh3 billion cap was placed. The Governor also told a cheering crowd that in the last four years, his county has received Sh32 billion, not Sh50 billion."The constitution says&nbsp;resources&nbsp;should be distributed fairly. We are capable of managing funds even for the future," Nanok told the President. He added that this was the only way Uhuru would earn respect in the county. Read: Uhuru's temper tantrum on striking doctors shows he is weak President - MP Bosire But Uhuru dismissed him saying:&nbsp; "I am not the one who passes laws. I simply sign...halafu&nbsp;mjinga&nbsp;anakuja&nbsp;kusema&nbsp;hapa&nbsp;kwamba ati mimi nafanya mambo..." This loosely translates to: "...and then a fool says that I am doing my own things." The President told the people not to listen to propaganda as "you are the ones who will get lost, not me".&nbsp;"If they think I am easily scared off, they should look for someone else," he said, adding they will be fine even without the county's votes, and that the world will not come to an end. Uhuru said the arid Turkana county has little to show for more than Sh40 billion devolved funds disbursed over the last four years. He further&nbsp; criticised Nanok saying his county was a shameful example of poor service delivery to Kenyans. The President noted that the county received a sum equal to the total amount sent to&nbsp; Kiambu and Uasin Gishu counties. &ldquo;Turkana deserves to develop at the same pace as other counties and its residents have a right to receive efficient and effective services under the devolved unit,&rdquo; he said. Uhuru said credit should be given where it is due and that politicians should carry out their affairs peacefully. He noted that his government had initiated projects in the county&nbsp; in the areas of energy, health, infrastructure, agriculture, water and security. The President cited the ongoing tarmacking of Kitale-Lodwar road and the supply of electricity to more than 300 schools.&ldquo;Since independence, which government has connected more households to electricity than Jubilee?&rdquo; the President asked.&ldquo;If one is a leader keen on uplifting the life of residents, he should join Jubilee &ndash; the party that is focused on development and unity.&rdquo;He spoke in&nbsp; Lodwar town where he was greeted by thousands of residents during a visit with DP William Ruto. Read: Ruto is 'bitter' that Jubilee lost Turkana by-election, Governor Nanok saysAlso read: Keep off Turkana county affairs, Nanok tells Ruto The Deputy President said he has fought hard to ensure money for development was sent to Nanok's county following his request and Uhuru's determination to transform lives in all parts of the country. &ldquo;As a national government, we have resisted calls to change the formula for revenue allocation that would see counties like Turkana allocated less funds,&rdquo; he said. Turkana Senator John Munyes led 12 MCAs in defecting to Jubilee Party. Those who decamped included&nbsp; Raphael Loperito (ODM), James Abei (ODM), David Ateyo (Kanu), Patrick Imana (Kanu), Jackson Lowoi (Kanu), Maria Nasanyana (Kanu) and Emmanuel Lomorukai (Kanu). Others were Joseph Tioko (Ford Kenya), John Sepae (Ford-Kenya), Michael Ewoi (Ford&nbsp;Kenya), Marystella Ekunoit (Ford-Kenya) and Leah Nachere (Ford-Kenya). Munyes and Senate Speaker Ekwee Ethuro thanked Uhuru and Ruto for the development witnessed in the county.