Four opposition MPs yesterday criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) over his latest display of anger, emotion and ignorance in handling crucial national matters.The leaders are Busia woman representative Florence Mutua and MPs Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Geoffrey Odanga (Matayos).Speaking to the Star separately on the phone, the opposition MPs said Uhuru s public outbursts about the striking doctors and a furore in Lodwar at Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok on Wednesday were temper tantrums.Bosire questioned why Uhuru had resorted to abusing doctors who are fighting for their constitutional rights and have not broken any law to warrant condemnation from the President.He said the threats to doctors show he is a weak President. They [doctors] have followed the Constitution. Which section of the Constitution is the President invoking by showing us temper, Bosire said. This shows that the President is ignorant and lacks the ability to handle difficult matters. Mutua dismissed the government s threats to sack local doctors and seek expatriates. These threats are empty and wherever the doctors are they should know that they are about to strike a deal, she said.Odanga said Kenya cannot hire medical practitioners from other countries yet the targetted nations are already struggling to meet the universally accepted doctor-patient ratio. There are no doctors in Tanzania in excess to come over, there are no doctors in Cuba to come over, and all over the world doctors are not in excess anywhere. That is how angry, emotional and ignorant our President is, he said.Wandayi said Uhuru is insensitive to the challenges Kenyans face.He said doctors should not waver in their resolve for a better healthcare system.The problem is not money but mismanagement, corruption and theft of public funds, Wandayi said.The legislators said more than Sh5 billion went missing at the Health ministry, yet professional doctors are suffering. It is easier to steal in Kenya than to get your rights, and doctors have not stolen. They are pursuing their rights. Please don t blink doctors you are about to get your right, Bosire said.