Politician and prominent farmer Jackson Kiror was yesterday arrested at his home after a six hours chase by police, who are investigating an incident where he fired thrice at his son, missing him by a whisker.Eldoret West police boss Samuel Mutunga led his officers and stormed Kibor&rsquo;s home at Kabenes, where they arrested him. Kibor, however, requested to be allowed to drive to the Eldoret police station, where he was detained for questioning. The home is located more than 30 kilometers from Eldoret town.&ldquo;We have seized his pistol for examination. He also surrendered eight rounds of ammunition,&rdquo; Mutunga said.He said investigations would determine whether Kibor will be charged with threatening to kill his son Ezekiel Kirober and misuse of a firearm.&ldquo;We will also examine the gun to find out it is licensed,&rdquo; Mutunga said.Police have also ordered Kirober and other family members to record statements over the shooting incident at their home near Eldoret.&ldquo;They will all record their statements so that we can conclude the investigations and know the way forward,&rdquo; Mutunga said.A video clip of the shooting recorded on phone by a resident of Kabenes area where the incident occurred has been circulating on social media.Kibor has claimed he shot in self-defence, claiming that his sons wanted to kill him due to a dispute over family land.But Ezekiel said the gun jammed and failed to release bullets.&ldquo;Were it not that the gun failed, I would be dead because he fired directly at me with the intention to kill me,&rdquo; Ezekiel told the Star on the phone. Kibor arrived at the farm and found Ezekiel supervising work and the politician immediately drew his gun and shot as he sought to know what they were doing on the land.In the video clip Kibor is seen shooting as he moved closer to his son who ducks and then escapes from the area. Kirober was holding a panga and a rungu in his hands as Kibor fired.However Kibor claimed that Ezekiel and his three brothers arrived in a car and wanted to attack him because they were armed with crude weapons.&ldquo;They came in a car and found me cultivating the land and Ezekiel was the first one to come out and started advancing towards me and that&rsquo;s why I drew the gun in self defense&rdquo;, said Kibor.Kibor and his son confirmed that they would record statements so that police can deal with the matter conclusively.Ezekiel said after the incident he fled from the farm and reported the incident at the Eldoret Police station through OB No 74/3/3/17 but so far no action had been taken by the officers against the politician.Kibor is embroiled in a land dispute with the sons over a 1,250 acres farm at Kabenes in Uasin Gishu. Ezekiel claims he was with workers ploughing a 200 acres land at Kabenes which is part of the disputed farm when the incident occurred. Kibor has sued three of his sons over ownership of the land.&ldquo;The portion of land where he found me is registered in my name and he knows it yet he doesn&rsquo;t want me to use it&rdquo;, said Ezekiel.The politician moved to court last year to bar the transfer of 1,250 acres to his sons, 20 years after sub-division of the same parcel. In his case Kibor has accused 20 parties, including his six sons, of fraudulently sub-dividing and processing titles for his land (LR No. 8300 and 8301) measuring 1,547 acres. &ldquo;I am still the owner of the entire parcel which was illegally sub-divided and registered at Uasin Gishu County Land Registry as SOY/KAPSANG Block 10 (Samitoi)&rdquo;, argues Kibor in his case.He says the sons illegally and fraudulently acquired his land and unprocedurally consolidated the two parcels before sub-dividing them and obtaining invalid titles. Kibor also accuses the defendants of continuing to trespass, encroach and develop the land, neglecting an order from the District Land Registrar requiring them to vacate and to surrender the invalid titles. Ezekiel had said that he is surprised that police have taken too long to act on the incident. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like they are reluctant because they even told me to go away and later when they will call me to record my statement&rdquo;, said Ezekiel.Kibor has also filed a divorce case against his second wife Josphine whom he is seeking to part with after 52 years of marriage. He accuses his wife of cruelty, adultery and interfering with his 800 acres farm at Kipkabus which he wanted to sell.He accuses Josephine of putting a caveat on the land to stop the sale. The divorce case will be heard on March 2nd.