Lamu West MP Julius Ndegwa was charged with nine counts of Sh5.2 million fraud yesterday at the Mombasa law courts.He denied the charges and was released on Sh1 million bond. The court heard that on February 8 at an undisclosed place in Kenya, and with an intent to defraud, Ndegwa made a power of attorney signed by Omar Barisa in respect of his land.Barisa purportedly signed the document on September 24, 2010.The charge sheet states that he committed the offence with others not before the court.The legislator appeared before before chief magistrate Evans Makori.Ndegwa was also charged with obtaining Sh4 million from Yusuf Sufi by falsely pretending that he would give him the power of attorney to act for Barisa in the sale of his land.He also denied issuing a bad Sh1.2 million cheque to Sheikh Mohamed, despite knowing the account provided had insufficient funds.His lawyers, led by Jared Magolo, requested the court to release him on bond, pending conclusion of the suit.In the same court, the MP is facing charges of abuse of office.Six witnesses have testified.Ndegwa is accused of taking Sh1 million meant for administration of the Constituency Development Fund office between July 1 and October 10, 2013.He, Michael Thegeru, Yussuf Hassan, Sophia Wanjiru and Zakayo Gitonga were also charged with conspiring to commit an economic crime by irregularly transferring Sh1.6 million from the CDF account.They denied the charges.The court heard that the money was set aside for construction of a cattle dip in Witu.The accused were also charged with two counts of irregular reallocation of CDF cash.They denied the charges before Mombasa chief magistrate Susan Shitubi.The defence requested the prosecution to supply them with witness statements. The case will be mentioned on April 18, when witness statements will be confirmed.Ndegwa was born in Mpeketoni, Lamu county. The first-term MP was elected on the Kenya National Congress Party ticket under the Eagle coalition. Ndegwa attended Lamu Boys&rsquo; High School. In 2014, he said that the June Mpeketoni slaughter over a few days was purely political and al Shabaab was not involved. Ndegwa said the attack was fuelled by politicians associated with Cord. He added that they attended a rally at the Tononoka Grounds, Mombasa, a day before the attack. Ndegwa said the attacks targetted his community. More than 100 residents lost their lives. In July 2014, a children&rsquo;s court ordered Ndegwa to appear before it and explain why he should not be jailed for court contempt. This is after his wife said he been abusing her for 15 years. He had a court battle with his wife Shiphira Wanjiku over custody of their children. Ndegwa failed to pay Sh200,000 monthly upkeep for his children. In August 2015, a lorry belonging to him was impounded with narcotics in Mpeketoni. Ndegwa, however, distanced himself from the haul. Those caught in the lorry should face the law, he said. Last year, Ndegwa was warned by a Mombasa court against threatening witnesses in a case in which he was charged with abuse of office. The court said his bond would be cancelled if he threatened witnesses again. Assistant DPP Alexander Muteti said he had information that Ndegwa was threatening EACC officers and other officers who were witnesses in the case.