Harambee Stars face the Democratic Republic of Congo in an international friendly match at Machakos Stadium tomorrow, with head coach Stanley Okumbi&rsquo;s 9-match unbeaten run being put to test by the 2017 Afcon quarter finalists. The match comes three days after being held to a 1-1 draw by neighbours Uganda at the same venue.Okumbi, who was not pleased with Stars&rsquo; defensive lapse that gifted their rivals the equaliser, hinted of changing his starting line-up after starting a balanced team of both local and foreign players. &ldquo;I am not happy with the draw despite staying nine games unbeaten. This was a match we should have won easily considering we were a better side. We lost numerous scoring chances, only to concede late in the match,&rdquo; said Okumbi, who is preparing his charges for the 2019 Afcon qualifier against Sierra Leone in a Group &lsquo;F&rsquo; match away on June 5 . Also in the group are Ghana and Ethiopia.Stars had taken the lead through Michael Olunga in the 35th minute but were caught napping by substitute Moses Waiswa, who turned Aboud Omar inside out before releasing a teasing shot that beat the out of position Patrick Matasi in goal with three minutes to go. The last friendly between Kenya and Congo ended 1-0 in favour of Stars in Lubumbashi. However, the home side will have to be at their best to stop the Congolese, who are ranked 50 places higher at position 38 globally. Impressive Patrick Matasi may retain his position between the posts, while experienced David Calabar Owino, who was rested may start at the heart of defence alongside Brian Mandela. Youngster Robinson Kamura, who partnered Mandela on Thursday, is likely to switch to right back in place of debutant Simon Mbugua, who came in for injured Musa Mohammed.Aboud Omar, who was partly to blame for Uganda&rsquo;s equaliser will likely maintain the left back position, while captain Victor Wanyama joins the fray to command the midfield, alongside Teddy Akumu, Johanna Omollo and Samuel Onyango.Michael Olunga and Jesse Were will lead the goal hunt in a preferred 4-4-2 system. They will be backed up by a strong bench made of David Okello, Simon Mbugua, Osborne Monday, Kenneth Muguna, Bernard Mangoli, John Makwatta and Paul Were. The former Mathare United and Kariobangi Sharks&rsquo; tactician took charge in February last year. He lost the opening two Afcon 2017 qualifiers against minnows Guinea Bissau in a span of four days in March last year with identical 1-0 score-line.He then led Stars to a 1-1 draw against Sudan in a friendly on May 16 and followed it up with another 1-1 draw against Tanzania and 2-1 victory over Congo Brazzaville in an Afcon qualifier at home. Okumbi&rsquo;s men played to a barren draw with Uganda away in a friendly in August, followed by another 1-1 stalemate against Zambia a month later in the continental qualifier. He then enjoyed his best run at the helm, racking up three identical 1-0 victories on the trot in international friendlies against DR Congo, away followed by Mozambique and Liberia at home. He pushed his tally to nine matches unbeaten in Thursday&rsquo;s 1-1 draw with Uganda. The Leopards will be playing their first game since losing to Ghana in the 2017 African cup of Nations quarter final in Gabon. Coach Florent Ibenge&rsquo;s has a relatively strong side made up European-based players, who are likely to give Kenya a run for their money.Notable absentees are Hull City striker Diumerci Mbokani, who is nursing a thigh strain, Everton winger Yannick Bolasie who has a long term knee injury, and Sevilla&rsquo;s Steven Nzonzi, who opted out.Ibenge will team up with Afcon top scorer Junior Kabananga, Fulham&rsquo;s Neeskens Kebano, goalkeeper Kiassumbua Joel of Wohlen FC, Switzerland, Issama Mpeko Djo of TP Mazembe and Newcastle United&rsquo;s Chancel Mbemba, who were all in Gabon to revenge their last defeat against Kenya.