Recent decisions have thrown the country’s public procurement appeals board into the limelight prompting a look at previous rulings. The Public Procurement Administrative and Review Board is on the spot for prompting the award of tenders before the entire process is completed. The board has had some of its major decisions challenged in court, with accusations of political correctness while it carries out its work. Some of its decisions have consequently been overturned by the courts, including one relating to the procurement of ballot papers. Last year, the High Court, in one of the cases against the board, ruled that PPARB has no powers to award the tender to any bidder if it found errors in the process. Mandate: Resolve disputes The Board is established by Section 27 of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015. Its main function is to review, hear and determine tendering and asset disposal disputes. In one of the latest decisions made last month, the Kenya Rural Roads Authority claims the Board ordered the award of a Sh4.5 billion tender before the evaluation process was complete. KeRRA says PPARB awarded Roben Aberdare Limited the tender for the upgrading of a number of roads, totalling 98 kilometres, in Nyeri and Murang’a counties. Irregular tender awards? This was before KeRRA could announce the winner of the tendering process, forcing the authority to go to the High Court for a review. KeRRA’s tendering committee had raised issues over the possible inflation of prices by Roben Aberdare, whose current financial standing could not be confirmed. But as the procurement process was ongoing, Roben Aberdare went for a review at PPARB and got the favourable ruling. This disclosure comes just a week after the PPARB awarded a tender by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission halfway through the process. The IEBC was yet to complete the process and had planned to re-advertise the tender after Gemalto SA became the only firm qualified in the first evaluation. Questions have been raised about Gemalto’s capacity to handle the tender as it has no experience of handling an election process. On March 10, the Court of Appeal allowed the Central Bank of Kenya to continue with a Sh1.2 billion tender that was being investigated by the EACC. The controversy on this tender for security systems kicked off in 2012 when the evaluation committee refused to award the tender to Horsebridge Networks Systems Limited. A tender committee had directed that the contract be awarded to the firm, which went to PPARB for a review after the evaluation committee refused to give it the tender. PPARB directed CBK to sign the contract but this was stayed after the anti-graft agency started investigating the Central Bank over the allegation that the agreement was irregularly awarded. The company went to the High Court and on the strength of PPARB’s recommendation, won the case. But the EACC went to the Court of Appeal, leading to the latest decision. In 2015, PPARB threw out a suit involving a Sh1.2 billion installation of an Integrated Customs Management System at the Kenya Revenue Authority. Despite agreeing with the petitioner, who came in second, that the tendering process was flawed, PPARB threw out the case on grounds it was filed late. Last year, a security firm went to court to stop the Kenya Electricity Generating Company from awarding a tender for guards to another firm. KenGen, through the PPARB, has set the minimum turnover for the winning bidder at Sh800 million. There is no such requirement in law for the PPARB to set the tender conditions on behalf of the procurement entity. In September last year, the High Court quashed PPARB’s decision in favour of Kenyan-owned Tropical Technologies Limited to supply hi-tech number plates. In the multibillion-shilling tender, the Transport ministry had awarded three foreign entities but PPARB cancelled the awards and gave the three tenders to a locally owned firm. Was it right to cancel contracts? In February this year, three companies moved to court to challenge the tender review board’s decision to cancel a multimillion-shilling contract for the supply and delivery of tyres and tubes to the Kenya Defence Forces. Maji Motors Ltd, Finkens Holdings Ltd and Maeji Kaiho International say the decision by the procurement board was irrational and unreasonable. PPARB had cancelled the tender following a petition by Sameer Africa, but the three firms told the court that they had already signed contracts with the Defence ministry. PPARB considered the review even after the 14-day grace period granted to those aggrieved to file their petition had expired.