Kenya has once again hit global headlines by being the first country globally to issue a mobile money based government bond. This heralds a new standard in government domestic borrowing which has over the years been largely dominated by commercial banks. M-Akiba, which has been in the offing for some time, finally saw the light of day with the inaugural issue that was launched by the Cabinet Secretary for Treasury Henry Rotich. The first issue targets Sh50 million with a further Sh4.85 billion expected to be issued in June this year. The government has over the recent past been rejecting highly priced bond offers in a bid to manage the overall cost of debt. This has, however, been hampered by the heavy dominance of commercial banks both in the primary and secondary bond markets which has partly left the government at the mercy of the banks in terms of pricing. The government estimates that it will borrow Sh320 billion from the domestic market in financial year 2017-18. Domestic borrowing is mainly achieved through issuance of Treasury bills and bonds. In line with the Medium Term Debt Management Strategy, the government has deliberately been issuing long-term bonds to ensure that the returns associated with the money borrowed are realised before maturity. Low participation of retail investors has mainly been attributed to the high set minimum subscription amount that is required to participate in government bonds. For a long time this has remained at Sh50,000 which is above the ability of the majority of Kenyans. The reduction of the minimum amount to Sh3,000 under the M-Akiba platform is within the reach of many Kenyans, and is likely to whet the appetite of retail investors who were previously locked out of the bond market. This product is likely to widen the investor base and increase retail participation in the government securities market. This is an ingenious move that is meant to increase the participation of the general public in government infrastructure projects, while at the same time promoting a savings culture among the common mwananchi. The 10 per cent tax-free annual interest is a catch that offers the public a competitive return compared to what is generally being offered by commercial banks for fixed deposits. By and large, the uptake of M-Akiba is likely to reduce the cost of domestic borrowing going forward by bringing in more participants in the government bonds market. The success or otherwise of M-Akiba will, however, depend on the level of sensitisation of the general public on its benefits. The writer is a tax manager at EY. The views are his own.