HAS Dagoretti North MP Dennis Waweru developed cold feet in his bid for Nairobi governor? The once self-proclaimed best-placed Jubilee candidate to remove Governor Evans Kidero on August 8 has begun to hang up his boots. Waweru seems to have already sensed defeat at the JP nominations that have attracted six candidates. Corridors is told the MP recently camped in his constituency, traversing every corner on foot, urging the constituents to support him for reelection. It is said Waweru assured his electorate that all his 2013 promises, including repair of potholed roads, are going to be fulfilled before August. Our mole tells Corridors that construction materials have already been supplied for some of roads. The MP says work is to commence without delay.===WHAT interest does a top Jubilee leader have in one of the Maasai community controlled counties? Sources whisper to Corridors that the high flying politician was driven to one of these counties recently without bodyguards. Reason? He was going to inspect some controversial piece of land that has allegedly stalled a multibillion-shilling project. It's said the man has a lot of interest in the project and the delay has infuriated him. However, his concern is not that he wants service delivery to the people. No. He wants to pocket kickbacks from the contractor awarded the lucrative contract.===WORD has it that a well-known activist, a Nakuru county legislator MP and a journalist, are worried men. Those in the know say the men were recently charged in a Nakuru court with malicious damage to property and may soon be jailed. Word has it that the men have been receiving funds from some private developers to fight other developers. The three have been working hard to ensure one group loses ownership of land. It is said that they recently received colossal sums of money and are not actually genuine activists. A video of them receiving the bribe will soon go viral.===A Coast NASA legislator was heard saying their rival Jubilee Party brigade will hardly get a vote from the region even if they camp there for these remaining five months to the polls. Reason? The MP said Jubilee leaders have no new ideas to woo Coast residents, especially in Kilifi county. The legislator told colleagues from Northeastern that the thorny issue of land has not been addressed to resettle squatters and that locals are still largely marginalized. The MP said locals have not benefitted from mega-projects, including the one-million-acre Galana Kulalu project. The lawmaker said some county MPs, including Gideon Mung'aro (Kilifi North), have a mountain to climb on August 8 and then fall down all the way back. Talk of The Myth of Sisyphus!