Nasa leaders have said the High Grand Falls vision is their and that they will bring it to fruition when they take over power after the election. The Jubilee government pledged to build the biggest dam in Kenya to irrigate more than 617,000 acres of land and produce 700MW of electricity. The Sh150 billion dam, to be built on River Tana in Tharaka constituency, will cover approximately 165 square kilometres and will hold more than 5.6 trillion litres of water. But Cord leader Raila Odinga said the project began under the Grand Coalition Government. “We had [a proper] plan to compensate those who will be displaced," he said on Wednesday. "We have heard that there are problems with compensation. If they are unwilling to offer good compensation to the people of Tharaka, we are telling residents to wait until we take power." Raila said there should be no water shortage in Tharaka Nithi as the county has many rivers which flow to the Indian Ocean. “The Indian Ocean does not need this water. If we take over power we will ensure we end the water shortage especially in Tharaka constituency,” said the Opposition leader. “We are urging the people of Tharaka Nithi to rally behind us and end political chauvinism,” he continued, also saying that the National Super Alliance has the blue print for transforming Kenya. Raila opposed the Sh6.8 billion Northern Water Collector Tunnel project saying it was a "secret, ridiculous" Jubilee initiative. The project funded by the World Bank seeks to divert water from sources in Aberderes to Thika's Ndakaini Dam for use in Nairobi. The Cord leader also called for the suspension of the Sh38 billion Itare Dam construction at the Mau water tower to allow public participation. More on this: Jubilee's Sh6.8bn secret water project will turn counties to deserts - Raila Also see: Uhuru taps my calls, Raila claims, asks Jubilee to stop Itare Dam project The government invited bids for the construction of the dam for the third time in January. The project had been suspended over corruption allegations. Deputy President William Ruto stopped the project in August 2013, saying its cost had been exaggerated. The Tana River Development Authority and China State Construction Engineering Corporation later signed a deal to build the dam on May 28, 2014, in the presence of the visiting Chinese premier Li Keying and President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi. More on this: State for third time bids to build Sh200bn dam Also read: Sh150 billion High Grand Falls dam project works geared to start The government the dam will be constructed over six years. This is envisioned to increase the capacity of the Galana irrigation project to help end food shortage in the country. 