The Commission on Revenue Allocation and the Office of the Controller of Budget have asked the 47 county governments to get training on how to increase their revenues to supplement the national government's budgetary allocations.Those targeted include key revenue officials and members of county assemblies serving in finance and budget committees. The training is intended to help the devolved units identify and implement relevant revenue laws aimed at improving revenue sources. Revenue collected by all the counties comprised 8.1 per cent of total county budgets. The counties raised Sh25.7 billion in the 2013-14 financial year, Sh32 billion in 2014-15, and Sh35 billion in 2015-16. CRA&rsquo;s legal director Sheila Yieke said counties are collecting little revenue due to lack of legal and administrative structures. &ldquo;Because counties have already identified the sources of own revenue, and know areas with the greatest potential, they now need to urgently enhance revenue from these sources,&rdquo; Yieke said. She was speaking at Strathmore University during the Specialised Revenue Enhancement Workshop.Deputy director at the Office of the Controller of Budget Stephen Masha said counties had continuously missed targets due to weak enforcement, unskilled workforce, and lack of up-to-date database for various tax segments. The CRA and OCB said the training will lead to formulation of relevant laws that increase revenue and enforce regulations. &ldquo;At CRA, we have made efforts to develop model revenue laws that county assemblies can adopt and modify. These are already available on our websites,&rdquo; Yieke said.Kisii MCA Dennis Ombachi, who chairs the County Budget Committee, rooted for initiatives that will make counties self-sufficient. &ldquo;Counties continue to improve budget contribution ratio of own revenue to allocation from national government every year. It is a journey we should accelerate by tapping the unique revenue opportunities available to each county,&rdquo; he said. The OCB said counties collected 69.3 per cent revenue of their own targets during the 2015-16 financial year, despite many charges levied by the governments.While the total revenue generated from counties has been growing, it still contributes less than a tenth of county budgets. &ldquo;Presently, no county can sustain their own budgets without the remittance from the national government allocation,&rdquo; Masha said. Representatives from Strathmore University said radical efforts to increase revenue will enable counties to meet their financial obligations. However, some economists who are against devolution have raised doubts on the ability of counties to sustain themselves. &ldquo;Training key county revenue officials around revenue enhancement will grow capacity to support the emergence of the first self-sufficient county in Kenya,&rdquo; said Strathmore&rsquo;s Tirus Wanyoike. Governors are in Naivasha on a three-day annual devolution conference.