Home player Vipin Rajani needed a score of 22 stableford points in the back nine to win the fifth leg of the ongoing Johnnie Walker Series at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club on SaturdayRajani playing off handicap 11 managed a total of 39 points, having carded 17 points in the front nine. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m so happy with my achievement today. I played 17 in the first nine and somehow my golf improved in the second nine as I parred all holes to the 16th, before I had a double bogey on the 17th, then I recovered with a birdie in the final hole,&rdquo; said Rajani in his winner&rsquo;s speech.He added: &ldquo;I won the Cedric competition here in January, took it easy in February and I&rsquo;m now back winning again. I&rsquo;m now not looking back.&rdquo;Milton Ndegwa, playing off handicap 14, settled for the runners-up position on 39 points (18, 21), while handicap 10 Andrew Okeyo was third on 39 points (18, 21).Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero playing off handicap 14 posted 17 points in the first nine, before carding 21 in the back nine for a total of 38 points to settle for the fourth position, just a single shot behind the winner, while handicap 14 Victor Maina needed a countback to finish fifth on 37 points (15, 22).Mercy Wambugu playing off handicap 11 was the lady winner on 38 points (17, 21), while handicap 20 Olive Njagi beat Natasha Khromov on count back to win the ladies runner up prize on 35 points (18, 17). K. C. Mwenda playing off handicap 20 was the guest winner on 39 points 15, 24), while Peter Mbue won the first nine prize on a score of 20 and Jacob Njeru beat Joe Mureithi on count back to win the second nine prize on a score of 21.J. Kihoro playing off handicap 26 won the staff prize after carding an impressive 42 points (19, 23) and handicap 28 Lamuwalla Juzer won the best effort prize on a score of 17 points (6,11). The series started at the Railways Golf Club on February 4, before moving to Kiambu Golf Club, then Limuru Golf Club, Thika Sports Club and Muthaiga Golf Club. Sigona Golf Club will host the next leg next Saturday.This year, the series have 10 legs to be held at different clubs country wide, leading up to the grande finale in the PGA Vipingo Ridge on April 29.&ldquo;Today, we toast to an exciting fifth leg of Johnnie Walker Golf Series, a worthy initiative that we at KBL proudly support. Indeed, you will agree with me that this is a golf series of its kind. I would like to acknowledge the support of Muthaiga Golf Club for making this day a success. I believe that all of you enjoyed the tournament as a special way,&rdquo; said EABL&rsquo;s Emerging Market&rsquo;s Manager James Kiama during the prize giving.He added: &ldquo;Today&rsquo;s winners will walk away with excellent prize items including our premium products. On an exciting note for the victors, the top four players, two men and two ladies, will be eligible to register and participate at PGA Baobab at Vipingo Ridge Grand Finals on the April 29 and have a chance to win a voucher for 2 at half board basis for 2 nights at the Msambweni House &amp; private villas, at Msambweni.&rdquo;