Kiambu county expects the first batch of Indian doctors this week, Governor William Kabogo has said.They will replace those on strike.Kabogo said residents have suffered for three months and this cannot be allowed to continue, hence his administration has decided to act.He said patients have been yearning for high-quality healthcare services, but the absence of doctors has undermined this.Kabogo spoke on Friday in Juja during the launch of a matatu sacco.The county is targeting 30 doctors from India to restore order in its health sector.Kabogo said the doctors from India will be on a one-year contract, during which the county will train new doctors. He said he would not sit back and watch patients die. Kenyans continue to feel the heat of the strike. We have had to look for doctors out there to replace the striking ones, Kabogo said. We will not allow Kenyans to suffer any further. He said the government had done its best to listen to the doctors, but poor patients continue to suffer.Several counties have said they will this week start sacking medics who do not resume duty and hire new ones from other countries.During the Fourth Devolution Conference in Naivasha, Nakuru county, last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Council of Governors terminated negotiations with doctors and ordered them to resume work or be sacked. I can assure you, we will take action. We will sort you. This is blackmail, Uhuru said.But reacting to the statements, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union officials pleaded with the government to allow negotiations to conclude.They said most of the contentious issues in the 2013 collective bargaining agreement had been agreed on and what remains is signing a return-to-work agreement.However, the President and the governors maintained there will be no further negotiations.They told the medics to take the 40 per cent pay increase the government had offered them.The government offered Sh4.5 billion. This included 40 per cent basic salary increase and other additional allowances.The deal was struck following mediation by a team of religious leaders.Doctors have been on strike since December 5. They initially demanded a 300 per cent pay increase.The strike is in its 99th day today.