About four kilometres from Kiambu Road in Thindigua, an isolated three-bedroom house stands on a natural fenced compound. Three women are under a tree, one of them sitting on a plastic chair as the other two braid her hair.This is Teen Challenge Centre, where a trumpet of hope is blown to the ears of drug addicts. There are 12 women in the centre, all recovering from different addictions.Joseph Kabochi, a reformed addict-turned pastor, is having a chat with the girls, as he is one of their teachers. Kabochi has been going to drug dens in Nairobi and bringing those who are willing to stop to the centre.&ldquo;Drug addiction is a disease and there are so many users willing to change but they don&rsquo;t know how,&rdquo; Kabochi said.Kabochi, who did drugs for 20 years, says substance abuse stole his life, leading him to crime and wickedness at a young age.He met Lucy Wanjiku in Kawangware, a place he had lived in for 20 years. &ldquo;When I met Lucy one and a half years ago, she was a wreck,&rdquo; he said, referring to a smartly dressed lady who joined us.The 18-year-old was among the first graduate women of the centre last year. She found herself in drugs at a tender age. &ldquo;My parents used to make changaa for sale at home,&rdquo; she said.She narrates how her mother would give her the traditional beer anytime she cried to avoid being disturbed. &ldquo;Changaa was like medicine at our home. Anytime I complained of any pains, my mum would feed me changaa,&rdquo; she remembers.Her mother died when she was five, leaving Lucy with her father, who she referred to as irresponsible. &ldquo;We lived in a small mud house in Kawangware and my dad would comfortably smoke bhang in my presence,&rdquo; she said.BHANG AT AGE SEVENAt only seven years, Lucy had her first bhang puff. &ldquo;I smoked and my dad never asked me, so I thought it was a good thing,&rdquo; she remembers.Lucy, who has never stepped in a classroom, would help her father in selling changaa, which they did from the house.She painfully remembers how she was raped by three men after her father sent her to the shop at night.On her way back, Lucy was confronted by men who tied her mouth and raped her in turns. &ldquo;I was only 10 and a virgin. When I got home my father did not bother to follow up on what had happened,&rdquo; Lucy says.A well-wisher noticed her walking style after a week and she took her to hospital. &ldquo;Pus was coming out of my private parts but I had no one to tell until that woman asked me.&rdquo; She was treated at Nairobi Women&rsquo;s Hospital, after which she returned back to stay with her father.In their small room, father and daughter indulged in bhang like grown-ups. &ldquo;I would comfortably light his bhang and he would do the same for me.&rdquo;Since her father would not share the money they got from selling changaa, Lucy started thinking of ways to make her own. &ldquo;With a friend, we started walking around Kawangware and she one day asked me if I can have sex for money. I had nothing to lose. After all I had already been raped.&rdquo;At 12 years, Lucy got her first sex client, who paid her Sh100. &ldquo;I went home and boasted to my dad how I had made the money and instead of warning me he asked me to share it,&rdquo; she says. She gave him Sh50 and the following day she went back to the streets with a group of &lsquo;ghetto girls&rsquo;. &ldquo;We would go wait for clients at Dagoretti Corner and trust me they came in numbers.&rdquo;SHIFT TO HEROINEIt was while in this business that she started smoking heroine. &ldquo;I became cheap and started sleeping with anyone who would agree to give me the drug.&rdquo; She started engaging in crime to sustain her supply. &ldquo;I would go to the market and steal clothes which I would sell to buy drugs.&rdquo;Lucy met Kabochi in a den when she was too broke to afford her dose. &ldquo;He was smartly dressed and because he engaged us, I asked him to give me money for food, but in real sense I wanted to buy drugs.&rdquo;To build a relationship, Kabochi gave her the money. After several visits to Lucy, she agreed to test the change Kabochi kept persuading her to try. &ldquo;I use myself as a living example to the addicts and encourage them to stop taking drugs,&rdquo; Kabochi says.She was enrolled to the Teen Challenge, where she says life was hell in the beginning. &ldquo;The first one month was terrible. I suffered severe withdrawals and the only thing they treated it with were strong painkillers and prayers.&rdquo;She says it was ridiculous at first seeing people praying for her. The second month became easier and she started finding sense in it. &ldquo;We were given hope and encouraged to start a new life.&rdquo; Kabochi says Teen Challenge brainwashes the drug mentality in an addict with Bible teachings and prayers.&ldquo;Everything here is about God, forgiveness and moving on,&rdquo; he says, adding that the addicts get to appreciate it with time. Lucy was hooked to the programme and she graduated last year with five others. She hopes to join a school at least to learn how to write her name. Lucy only comfortably speaks Kiswahili and Sheng. She has gone back home once and she hopes to change her dad, who is still a bhang addict.WEED CAKESSylvia Valerie, 33, started taking bhang when she went to further her studies in South Africa. &ldquo;There we would take weed cakes and chocolates,&rdquo; she said.When her father died, Sylvia had to drop out since her mother could not afford to pay her fees. She joined her mother in doing business. &ldquo;She owned a clothes shop in Nairobi and I asked her if I could carry some stock to go sell in Malindi.&rdquo;She moved to Malindi but bad luck followed her. She was conned of all the stock. &ldquo;A man lied to me that he had a client who would buy all my stock and I fell for the trap. We went to the said buyer but instead they took away the stock,&rdquo; she remembers.To deal with the frustrations, Sylvia went to a bar where she met a man. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s him who introduced me to heroine.&rdquo; The two would get married and move back to Nairobi, Huruma estate. They got their first child, whom Sylvia took to her mother since she could not afford to raise him. She would get pregnant soon after and her husband threw her out. &ldquo;I ended up in the streets since my family had rejected me due to the addiction. I became a street girl at 30.&rdquo;Sylvia, who asked me my name more than six times during the 20-minute interview, says heroine ate away her brain and she forgets too much.She remembers how she became a beggar in the streets of Nairobi and even started stealing car parts to sustain her drug supply.She gave birth to her second baby and she took it to her mother, who lives in Lavington, while it was less than a week old.Her cousin, who is a pastor, came to her rescue and enrolled her to the Teen Challenge programme, where she is in her third month. &ldquo;My family rejected me when I told them I wanted to change. They would not open the door for me when I rung the bell. They thought I was going to steal,&rdquo; Sylvia, who has not seen her children for more than a year, says.However, her mother has been visiting her and they have reconciled. &ldquo;I want to be a good person. My brother has been too hard on me but I pray that he will come along.&rdquo;It is estimated that close to one million people abuse drugs in Kenya with Mombasa, Nairobi and Malindi being the most affected areas. In Nairobi, heroine is measured from Sh200, while the cheapest cocaine costs Sh3,500, with Mombasa and Malindi having heroine at Sh2,500 per gramme and cocaine at Sh5,000 per gramme.