The 23 year old model is the first beauty brand ambassador for the Rootia hair brand and will market and promote the brand. The appointment comes barely four months after Rohto Mentholatum Kenya unveiled the Rootia hair range of products.This comes after naysayers thought the former beauty queen wouldn't get back on her feet after getting dethroned.The company is Japan&rsquo;s second largest consumer healthcare company. It was incorporated in Kenya in May 2013 with the aim of expanding the Group&rsquo;s network in Africa. Rohto Mentholatum (K) Ltd is founded on a mission to develop the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry in Kenya and the East African Region.&ldquo;We are delighted to partner with Roshanara on our journey. She embodies style, healthy beauty and confidence that inspire Rootia&rsquo;s brand core values," said Fumiko Akojima, Rohto Mentholatum Kenya Ltd&rsquo;s Managing Director. Roshanara, a law student at University of Nairobi, has been an icon in the fashion and beauty industry and once walked the runways of Miss World 2016. &ldquo;My passion for hair perfectly matches that of Rootia, especially as we look to continuously inspire and grow healthy hair on a healthy scalp,&rdquo; said Roshanara. Hair loss occurs in both men and women with devastating effects. In men, the loss can be linked to genetics and lifestyles. For men and women, some unhealthy practices can lead to hair loss include smoking or a stressful work related routine. People with sleeping disorders or who eat too much junk or over processed food are also likely to complain of hair loss. In some families, hair loss sets in as early as age 22. Hence members are likely to complain of hair thinning or receding hairlines. Rootia is a scalp care hair brand hat revitalizes hair by repairing damaged scalp and nourishing the hair root. The hair brand comprises of scalp oil, hair growth serum, shampoo and treatment.Also read: EXCLUSIVE! This is why dethroned Miss Kenya 2016 Roshanara Ebrahim's ex lover leaked her nude photos