Not so long ago, Kenya’s track beauty queen Mercy Cherono broke the hearts of many after she announced that she was no longer single. Mercy got married to her husband in a colourful traditional wedding which was held in Kipajit village, Bomet County. But barely 6 months in marriage, Mercy Cherono is not a happy woman. Her marriage is on the deathbed. The track star recently visited Nigeria to seek divine intervention from the Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN) founded by famous Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua of the TB Joshua Ministries, to seek deliverance from marital problems. She was accompanied by her husband; Edmond Ng’etich. She came in fourth, breaking hearts of her fans after failed to give impressive results in last year’s Rio Olympics in Brazil. Now, Mercy has shocked many after she shared the many problems she has faced in life. “My husband advised me to come here (SCOAN) for my career breakthrough because I was having problems with my career and marriage too. and the man of god prayed for me and delivered me from bondage,” Mercy told the congregation in Nigeria. Cherono revealed to more than 10,000 congregants that her husband advised her to visit the church so that man of God TB Joshua could ‘deliver’ her. She confessed that she and her husband have been going through a lot and fights were the order of the day in their house. She further went ahead to reveal that her husband had a child out of wedlock. She went ahead to reveal the main reason why she failed to impress at the Rio Olympics is due to injury. She said, “Before the Olympics I got injured and used to take pain killers to help reduce pain and help me train. I never told anyone. I kept it a secret because I didn’t want to be dropped from the team. Every time a competition approached, I developed an injury," Mercy said, "But ever since I came her for deliverance my life has totally changed. And we are happy." Mercy opened up after she was prayed for and demons driven out of her. The video, which was uploaded on the church’s (SCOAN) official YouTube account, has gone viral. Watch the entire video below. 