World half marathon champion Geoffrey Kipsang successfully defended his world cross country title in an exciting display at the Kololo Independence grounds in Kampala, Uganda.Ugandan Joshua Cheptegei took to the front in the second lap after a crowded first stanza, cruising at blistering speed to the delight of the home fans.Kamworor and Leonard Barsoton aligned themselves as the chasing pack as their Ugandan counterpart added a second after another on the gap.However, at the closure of the fourth lap, Cheptegei slowed considerably to the dismay of the support base. Kamworor closed the gap as Cheptegei started to stagger, leaving the crowd mouth agape.With the Ugandan now struggling, Kamworor took to the steering wheel and with him he took Barsoton along. Kamworor clocked 28:24, Barsoton timed 28:36 as Ethiopia&rsquo;s Abadi Hadis took bronze in 28:43. It was a sweet 1-2 victory that came as a surprise for the onlookers but not for the insiders in Team Kenya.&ldquo;While at Kigari, Kamworor and Barsoton were picked as the men to deliver the title and I am glad it worked exactly like we had planned,&rdquo; said team captain Leonard Komon.&rdquo;We had lost the junior men and women&rsquo;s title and had to ensure our tactics work right to avoid further embarrassment.&rdquo;&ldquo;We knew it would be tough but had a game plan. When Cheptegei took to the front, we decided to hold onto our plans since we knew the weather would work against us if we followed him,&rdquo; said Kamworor.&ldquo;It is such a good feeling to see that all worked as planned. I never wanted to be called former champion. I want to keep my title and I have. The special thing about is that on a similar date last year, I won the World Half Championships.&rdquo;Kenya ruled the women&rsquo;s race, taking an extended podium sweep of six. Irene Cheptai topped the billing after recording 31:57 as African Cross champion Alice Aprot timed 32:01 for second. World youth 2,000 steeplechase champion Lilian Kasait took the last podium finish in 32:11.World 3,000m steeplechase champion Hyvin Kiyeng (32:32), defending champion Agnes Tirop (32:32) and Olympic 1500m champion (32:49) followed in that order.&ldquo;It is unthinkable that I beat all those decorated athletes to deliver the gold,&rdquo; remarked an elated Cheptai.&ldquo;It is nothing that I had imagined but now I know my capacity especially having floored Faith, Kiyeng and Aprot.&rdquo;Tirop was a disappointed top six finisher. &ldquo;I am happy with the outcome but a bit disappointed that I could not defend my title,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;At one of the obstacles, inside the second kilometre, I stepped badly and felt my leg and had to go slow on it. I am very lucky to have finished in the top six.&rdquo;One again Kenya failed to sparkle in both the U-20 men and women&rsquo;s races.Uganda&rsquo;s Jacob Kiplimo won the junior men&rsquo;s race in 22:40, followed by Ethiopia&rsquo;s Amdework Walelegen in 22:43 as Richard Kimunyan timed 22:52 for bronze.&ldquo;I looked at the course and realised that the rest of the athletes did not want to take the initiative. I decided to increase the pace and luckily for me, only a handful followed me,&rdquo; said Kiplimo.He said it wasn&rsquo;t by default that he cruised home the winner. &ldquo;I have been training very hard for this championship,&rdquo; he observed. &ldquo;I was helped by the fact that most of those people are new while I have a bit of experience. I want to build up on this win and maybe do what Stephen Kiprotich has done for this country.&rdquo;In the U20 women&rsquo;s race, Kenya managed a bronze medal through Celliphine Chepteek, who observed: &ldquo;I was happy to finish in the top three since it was my first at the world cross country championships. I tried catching up with the Ethiopians but they were too strong.&rdquo;Ethiopia&rsquo;s Letesenbet Gidey won the race in 18:34, followed by compatriot Hawi Feysa in 18:57 as Celliphine took bronze in 19:02. Sheila Chelangat (19:12), Hellen Ekalale (19:16) and Fotyen Tsefay (19:24) completed the top six.