Jubilee is losing ground in Meru county and President Uhuru Kenyatta is wrong to believe he can count on its votes, Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi said on Friday.It was the second warning in three days that Jubilee Party is on shaky ground in Meru, the Central region perceived to be &ldquo;safe&rdquo; for JP.Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi also expressed concerns over NASA gaining popularity in Meru. Aburi also said his life will be in danger if NASA leader Raila Odinga wins, and he&rsquo;ll flee into exile.Aburi addressed media in Meru town and said he will do everything possible to ensure Uhuru is reelected.&ldquo;If Raila wins, I will be the first person he&rsquo;ll kill. I will ensure Uhuru wins because I cannot stand a Raila administration,&rdquo; Aburi said. He did not say why he fears for his life.He urged Uhuru to visit Meru soon because the ground seems to be shifting and JP support is not assured.Aburi advised Uhuru to discount advisers telling him Meru will rally behind him and visit the county himself.He said some leaders are not telling Uhuru the truth. Aburi said the President should have been notified that some JP people from smaller parties are discontented and looking for better and promising leadership in NASA.&ldquo;You must come and camp in Meru because it&rsquo;s yours. Stop concentrating on people who did not vote for you,&rdquo; Aburi told the President.He added, &ldquo;Uhuru should focus on areas that supported him because Meru is not good. Some leaders are lying to you that Meru is behind you &mdash; that&rsquo;s a lie.&rdquo;Aburi told off JP leaders telling Meru woman representative Florence Kajuju to step down for businesswoman Faith Kawira. While admitting rot within the party leadership, the MP said Kajuju is being promised a seat in the East African Legislative Assembly if she steps down for Kawira.The businesswoman was recently offered the PNU ticket. Meru Water executive Mary Mwiti had agreed to step down in her favour.Aburi said if Kawira and Kajuju join JP, they should go through fair nominations and let the people decide.&ldquo;Kawira needs to be cleansed before she&rsquo;s fit to represent the people of Meru. It&rsquo;s good our people look into the past of candidates and analyse them. Kajuju is as clean as velvet; nobody should force Kawira on the people,&rdquo; the MP said.He said under JP they have divided seats in Meru, so Imenti produces governor (Kiraitu Murungi), Tigania the woman representative and Igembe the senator &mdash; himself.