A second batch of 150 wagons for the standard gauge railway was received at the Port of Mombasa on Sunday by the Kenya Railways Corporation.The NX70 flat wagons will be used for freight transportation during the operations of the SGR after the launch scheduled for June 1.The first batch of 60 open wagons arrived on February 13. KRC has so far received 210 wagons out of the total order of 1,620.The 25-tonne axle flat wagons are suited for operations on the 1435mm SGR line. They can carry a payload of 70 tonnes and are designed to run at 120 km/h, according to KRC.KRC managing director Atanas Maina said that the flat wagons will be used for transportation of all types of containers. They will also be used to transport large size cargo such as steel, automobiles, tractors and box-cargo, he said in a statement to media houses.&ldquo;The demand for transportation in the country today exceeds the capacity of the roads and the existing railway line. These flat wagons will provide a working solution for transportation of freight in the country and will go a long way in decongesting the Port of Mombasa,&rdquo; Maina said. &ldquo;Once we commence operations, railway transport will increase its market share of the total freight and cargo transport in the country.&rdquo;Maina said three types of wagons have been ordered for the operation of the SGR line.They are open-top wagons, covered wagons and flat wagons. Operations on the SGR line will engineer a significant shift of freight transported from road to rail, Maina said.Freight trains on the SGR line are able to haul 4,000 tonnes per trip and 22 million tonnes per annum, he added. These will translate to less wear and tear on Kenya roads and will significantly contribute to the growth of the nation&rsquo;s GDP. KRC has so far received eight freight haulage heavy duty locomotives for mainline use out of the total expected 43 and two shunting locomotives out of the eight on order.Two passenger locomotives and 32 passenger coaches have been also been received. KRC is expecting three more passenger locomotives and eight passenger coaches by May to complete the total order.