NASA is at a crossroads over the choice of candidate for Mombasa senator.Two of Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s allies &ndash; Trade executive Hamisi Mwaguya and Youth executive Mohammed Abbas &ndash; want to replace Senator Hassan Omar.Omar has declared interest in the governor&rsquo;s seat. The senator has been accused by Joho&rsquo;s camp of failing in his mandate. He has been a fierce critic of Joho&rsquo;s administration.Abbas said he will seeking the NASA ticket. He did not specify which among the four parties that make up NASA &ndash; ANC, Ford Kenya, ODM and Wiper &ndash; he will use to run for the seat.But Mwaguya has said he will run on the ODM ticket.Education executive Tendai Mtana, who was first among the executives to declare interest in the Senate seat, is said to have pulled out. He has remained mum over his next move.Mtana, who is seen as Joho&rsquo;s blue-eyed boy, ran for Mombasa governor in 2013 as an independent candidate. After losing the election, he joined forces with Joho.Since 2013, he has been close to Joho, accompanying him to all the official trips he makes abroad.In a short video clip posted on Abbas&rsquo;s Instagram page, he said there is a rumour doing the rounds that he will step down for some individuals.&ldquo;Do not chicken out, there are eight people vying for the seat. Why do you have to mention my name every now and then. I&rsquo;m in the race till the end,&rdquo; he said. Abbas has resigned and started campaigns.Mwaguya is yet to resign. &ldquo;I will be on the ballot on an ODM ticket. I believe there will transparent nominations in our party,&rdquo; Mwaguya told the Star on the phone yesterday.Race between odm and jubileeMwaguya said the race will be between ODM and Jubilee on August 8.Jubilee is fronting Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana for the seat. She ditched ODM for Jubilee on January 28, citing frustration from the governor and his cronies. The deputy governor was welcome to Jubilee by President Uhuru Kenyatta on January 31.Mwaguya said, &ldquo;Even though the race will be between ODM and Jubilee, Hazel Katana is a non-starter in politics and I therefore expect a smooth and easy win to the Senate.&rdquo;Katana and the Jubilee side hope to capitalise on the expected fallout in NASA to win the senator and governor seats.mijikenda voteKatana said she has been conducting door-to-door campaigns. &ldquo;I have received a warm reception, but there is a challenge of smear campaign from the other side,&rdquo; she said.Katana has not been in good books with ODM officials in Mombasa, a region perceived to be an opposition stronghold. Jubilee is also capitalising on Katana&rsquo;s defection, as they continue to portray her as a victim of ODM and Joho&rsquo;s frustrations.Joho is expected to lose a huge number of Mijikenda votes, who make up 50 per cent of Mombasa voters, after Katana bolted. She is a MijikendaThe senator seat will be up for grabs as Omar has vowed to kick out Joho.Nyali MP Hezron Awiti is also in the race for governor on the Wiper ticket.Omar and Awiti are expected to join forces, but Awiti has said he will never be anyone&rsquo;s deputy.Omar inists the process of picking a candidate from the party would be free and fair.On the Jubilee side, businessman Suleiman Shahbal and lawyer Anania Mwaboza have joined forces to remove Joho. Mwaboza agreed to be Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate in a meeting mediated by Deputy President William Ruto.Others seeking to replace Omar include lawyer Mohammed Faki, Kenya Ferry Services chairperson Ramadhan Kajembe, Jubilee Party coordinator Farid Ahmed and Abdulsalam Kassim.