Mainstream and social media have fed us doctors for breakfast, lunch and dinner for 95 days. Doctors want more money. We all do. They want better working conditions. Who doesn't? Doctors feel shortchanged by government. Don&rsquo;t we all? So what is the real problem with doctors?They suffer from the 'Demigod Syndrome&rsquo;. Doctors feel inclined to believe that their existential space is only a miniscule rung below that of the Almighty.Doctors order their patients to partake of acts that qualify as outright humiliating. A doctor is the only brand of male who gets away with casually ordering a woman to remove her knickers, devoid of any emotional or monetary investment.Doctors are the only ones with the audacity to command a fellow man to bend over for examination. A doctor can order a grown man to scoop his faeces and take it to a lab for testing.For unclear reasons, doctors apply unnecessary jargon to describe simple complications.Doctors are certified intruders of our private space. They ask their patients the most ridiculously personal questions. It is only a gynaecologist who will ask a woman how frequently she has sex with the husband. A urologist will casually inquire how strong and consistent his patient&rsquo;s erections are or how consistent his ejaculatory spasms are. He will then command his patient to get an erection because only then can he best adjudicate on the functional proficiency of the organ.Proctologists specialise in the clinical dynamics of the rectum and the anus. One can only imagine the kinds of &lsquo;anal questions&rsquo; they ask their patients. Shudder some more at how they carry out their examination of the problem area.Medical practitioners are some of the most skillfully savvy capitalists in modern society. Upon graduation, the speed at which young doctors muster the art of corrupting the Hippocratic Oath is morally nauseating. Doctors&rsquo; private clinics today resemble Wall Street offices where mega deals are cut. Consultation and procedure charges are presented like a menu in a five-start hotel.Upon graduation, every medical practitioner takes the Hippocratic Oath. This resilient and universal ethical proclamation has been ventilated by the Helsinki and Geneva Declarations and re-adopted as the World Medical Association Code of Ethics. The 2002 Global Charter on Medical Professionalism expressly advocates for the prioritisation of patient welfare. Finally, Pellegrino's Precepts of 1988 binds each qualified doctor to &ldquo;place the good of the patient at the centre of my professional practice and when the gravity of the situation demands, above my own self interest&rdquo;.Can the Kenyan doctors claim to be abiding by these universal dictates of medical ethics? It is the crux of hypocrisy for doctors to shout themselves hoarse about money and how they are not offering any services then disperse and retreat to their money minting sanctuaries otherwise known as private clinics.The true definition of corruption is unscrupulous enrichment by illegitimate means. Corruption is the unashamed act of self-enrichment at the expense of others. Medical practice is today bedevilled by sordid tales of blatant commercialisation and uncivil profiteering at the expense of the sick.One may be tempted to claim that doctors are heartless persons whose curative enterprise thrives best when human suffering escalates. Such pedestrian rationality may portend that if we were all blessed with optimal health, Doctors would mostly be broke and jobless, unless they invent ways and means of corrupting our health so as to remain relevant. Funny and twisted perception, but creepy and scary reality isn&rsquo;t it?