It was inevitable in the end, the fracturing of the relationship between Jose Mourinho and Chelsea. Football is too raw and too intense for it to be any other way.The 4-0 Chelsea beating of Mourinho&rsquo;s United last October concluded with the Portuguese haranguing Antonio Conte on the touchline.At Stamford Bridge they chose to forgive him that lack of grace. This was Jose. He hates losing and that, after all, was part of what they once loved about him.At the Bridge on Monday night, however, the relationship changed and for now the pause button has been pressed on the mutual love and respect.One senses it will remain that way until Mourinho is done with football and the passing of time softens the edges of new rivalry.By full-time, the signs were writ large. No handshake on the field between the two managers, Mourinho facing the United supporters with fist pressed hard to his heart.From the Chelsea fans, taunts of &lsquo;Judas&rsquo; hung in the air. Mourinho was sacked twice by their club, but abuse is abuse and doesn&rsquo;t have to make sense.However, the really significant moment had arrived midway through the first half. With Mourinho badgering the fourth official in front of the dugouts, the supporters nearby tore into him pretty much for the first time in his life.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s always your fault,&rdquo; they sang at their old manager and this was soon followed by a chorus of: &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not special any more.&rdquo;Mourinho&rsquo;s response was swift, as though pre-rehearsed. Three fingers in the air and then a point down at the turf. Three Premier League titles. Right here. Won by me. For you.And that was where it effectively ended. A mutual admiration society founded the day Mourinho walked through the door from Porto in 2004 was torn up amid the melting pot of an FA Cup quarter-final almost 13 eventful years later.It was inevitable, too. No matter what you have done at a football club and no matter what the relationships you have formed, nothing can be expected to survive once you have made the decision to work for the enemy.In the days that followed his sacking at Chelsea last season, the club&rsquo;s supporters showed loyalty to Mou-rinho. Back then, it was the Chelsea players who were blamed for the club&rsquo;s shambolic league title defence.Mourinho was a victim then, a fall guy butchered by a dressing room that didn&rsquo;t care. Now he is a threat, the same malevolent presence he was to opposition teams across the country during his Chelsea years. Public Enemy No 1 and then some.Interestingly on Monday night, all of the above took place before things even got properly ugly. The United manager had been agitated from the start. He doesn&rsquo;t seem to like Conte much and it would appear the feeling is mutual.The handshake before kick-off was one of those exchanged through ritual obligation. No eye contact. Weight always shifting on to the other foot, ready for a way out.Mourinho had suggested this game was not a priority. He had talked up the Europa League and the need to secure a top-four place. All of that was logical but also completely unbelievable.This game meant as much to Mourinho as any such game ever has. And it was this, as much as any perceived injustice on the field, that drove him straight into the sights of Conte before and after the sending-off of Ander Herrera.Mourinho believed Chelsea&rsquo;s players to be diving. Conte, on the other hand, felt that United were taking their attempts to shackle Eden Hazard a little too literally.Both managers were petulant towards fourth official Mike Jones and were spoken to by referee Michael Oliver as things got rather too lively before half-time. Both could not have complained had they been sent off.In terms of the actual football, Mourinho will be disappointed, despite his post-match eulogies about his players. His team&rsquo;s game plan &mdash; including a man-to-man detail by Phil Jones on Hazard &mdash;was working nicely until United lost their discipline. United had been the better team for the first 25 minutes but a gradual lack of composure cost them.There were simply too many fouls by players in red in the run- up to Herrera&rsquo;s dismissal. The Spaniard&rsquo;s first yellow card was for an ugly block on Hazard. The second came within seconds of the referee telling United captain Chris Smalling to calm his players down.So Mourinho&rsquo;s players were culpable here. Their attempts to stop Hazard were too attritional. Mourinho will regret this in the short term because it derailed his tactical plan. But he will one day reflect on this as an important night in his gradual emergence as a United manager of substance.Despite the hoopla of another fascinating night, all that really happened here was that Mourinho stepped a little further out of his old skin and a little deeper into his new one. You can&rsquo;t be loved by two sets of football fans at the same time, not in England.It will change again over time, of course. The circle will turn and with that will come the true context of what Mourinho achieved at Chelsea. This, however, is one relationship that will get worse before it is allowed to get better.