That some voters are hoping against hope that the Jubilee regime gets another term is just sad.The callousness displayed towards even its most avid supporters in the short period Jubilee has held power &ndash; by the tightest grip &ndash; should be more than reason enough to send this gluttonous elitist government home.The only silver lining is that many voters are sensitised now more than ever. Voter apathy has come close to being the phrase of the day.The Jubilee Party isn&rsquo;t blind to this, not by a long shot. We can smell their panic from miles away. Even the tried and tested modus operandi of effortlessly doctoring election results does not really seem like a sure bet.They have realised that more effort will be required this time round, because rigging by itself won&rsquo;t help.We have witnessed the ridiculous shenanigans explored to salvage their sinking ship, nay, lifeboat.Propaganda is a popular tool among the power-hungry. Jubilee has not shied away from using it. But they realised that is not enough, because the media is not quite as docile as it once was.Then came the forced reading strategy, where they did away with government advertising of tenders, etc, in the dailies. They have instead placed the ads in their new gazette, which has to be tucked where they want the public to read their propaganda.Last kicks of a dying horse. I don&rsquo;t really think their reputation can be salvaged.Already, there are wrangles within their ranks. Domestic violence can never be concealed from the neighbours.Deputy President William Ruto has always attacked the opposition, citing its disorganisation. He, together with other political party heads, then haphazardly went on to fold their parties to form a &lsquo;more unified&rsquo; one.These politicians have lied to Kenyans year after year, they themselves have actually believed those very lies.The fact that Ruto, among others, thought Uhuru and company would give them a fair seat at the table, without them having any leverage to hold on to, is plain laughable. It&rsquo;s quite a relief for the neglected Kenyan to see a politician get a taste of his own medicine. But this does nothing to rescue us from the free fall we are in.Back to the Jubilee supporters: Any argument they give you will definitely either directly or hint-wise encompass the opposition.Heck, I even saw a post on social media that sought to vindicate President Uhuru Kenyatta and former President Kibaki of their failures by comparing them to Raila Odinga&rsquo;s, who has actually never been president.The fierce rivalry occasioned by tribal differences (which are a result of the divide and conquer strategy applied by our ambitious politicians) will be the death of us.We have been so blinded by our rage and hatred that we would rather suffer under our people from the village in the name of ethnic pride, than prosper under a leader who is not from our community, for national cohesion.The saddest truth that nearly everyone has intentionally become oblivious to is that Kenya is very close to becoming not a state, but a mere economic region that comprises small states &ndash; Kikuyu Nation, Luo Nation, Kalenjin Nation, Mulembe Nation, etc. The path we&rsquo;re travelling on is surely leading us to a bad place.Our reputation is deteriorating on the global stage. Most news about Kenya on the international spectrum paints us in bad light.It all started with the fact that our most popular presidential candidate and his running mate were suspects on trial at the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity. But that was negligible then, compared to the state of things now.We rank high on the corruption index. Our economic growth does not even reflect upon the working class. Our two most crucial sectors &ndash; education and health &ndash; are failing. Hunger has become a national disaster, despite our agricultural prowess, yet someone somewhere wants more than anything to give our government another term.It is my sincerest hope that one day the scales shall fall from our eyes and we will finally work towards the only right thing- national development. It&rsquo;s sad this is not obvious.