Revenge will be uppermost in Impala&rsquo;s minds when they host Kenya Cup champions Kabras in a mouthwatering playoff tie at the Impala club.Quins host Mwamba in the other playoff match at the RFUEA ground.Impala lost last year&rsquo;s final 22-5 to Kabras at a rain soaked Impala pitch and again a fortnight ago at the Kakamega showground in the group stages where they fell 29-26.Kabras also won their last season&rsquo;s home fixture in a 25-13 victory with Impala&rsquo;s lone success coming in the reverse encounter where they prevailed 31-14 at home.Head coach Fred Ollows predicts a tough clash against the sugarmillers.&ldquo;Kabras has been very good. They have big forwards but we&rsquo;ve been working on cutting the space and take our chances,&rdquo; said Ollows.He said his side have ramped up their intensity in training this week. &ldquo;The boys are more than ready. It&rsquo;s win or bust so the intensity shown by the boys this week has been superb and we are relishing the challenge. History will count for nothing. It&rsquo;s the 80 minutes on Saturday (today) that matters,&rdquo; added OllowsImpala will seek to play a high tempo game to tire the big Kabras forwards. Key players for the Sarries in the forwards are James Kubasu, Kelvisn Karani and Dennis Karani, with Davis Makori and Erick Kere starting at lock. The back row has Tyson Okoth , Pul Mutsami and Duncan Ekasi.Samson Onsomu and Nato Simiyu are the half back pairing with Seje Owade and George Okowa partnering in midfield with a back three of Derrick Mayar, Leon Adongo and Robin Kiplagat.On their part, Kabras welcome back skipper Max Adaka for the clash and will depend on Hilary Mwanjilwa, Duncan Mwangi and George Nyambua in the forwards with Edwin Achayo, Felix Ayange and Nick Barasa the pick of the bunch in the backs.Quins will not be underestimating a fired up Mwamba who stunned them 15-7 when they met in the group phase in January. Quins have recalled the Kangethe twins of James and Joseph to bolster the pack. The rest of the team remains unchanged. Mwamba will be led by former Kenya skipper Humphrey Kayange veteran Lavin Asego, Salaton Muturi and young guns Brad Owako and Greg Odhiambo.The winner of the Quins/Mwamba tie will face KCB in the semis next weekend with Homeboyz awaiting the winner of the Impala/Kabras encounter.