IT seems the authenticity of many Kenyan leaders&rsquo; academic papers is in doubt. Some civil society actors were heard whispering that it could be a good idea to move to court to force State agencies to set up a website on which all the education certificates of all public and State officers are posted. This would make the information accessible and eliminate apparent double standards in the crackdown on selected culprits. They said, for instance, that Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi (pictured), initially very critical of Jubilee, is among those alleged to have forged papers. Then there is a Cabinet Secretary who claims to have papers from the Kenya School of Law. According to the activist, the portal would see the spotlight of scrutiny shone on all, not just Governor Hassan Joho.STILL on matters to do with academic papers, an aspirant from Rift Valley who wants to run for governor of a South Rift county is contemplating pulling out of the race or run for Senate. Reason? The man is worried that his academic papers, which he alleges that he acquired from a Spanish university, may not be authentic. The man has been consulting campaigners on the next move.OFFICIAL campaign season is around the corner for party primaries and the general election. Every political aspirant, including men and women eyeing various seats, is considering all tactics to ensure they clinch party tickets. The most disadvantaged women aspirants who have been suffering the brunt of violence and intimidation during nominations, are very keen to clinch popular party tickets. Word has it that a female ODM aspirant from a county in Nyanza is desperate to emerge victorious in next month&rsquo;s nominations. It is said the middle-aged lady, believed to be entering politics for the first time, approached one of the party officials and was overheard sweet-talking him about how she can get the ticket. The official simply told her that she has what it takes, including offering sexual favours, to be given the ticket without facing off with her opponents.AN outspoken Nairobi Jubilee MP is a man under siege. Word has it that his goose is cooked and August 8 will be his fateful day of being sent out into the political cold. It is said his constituents are very upset with the MP for &ldquo;forgetting&rdquo; them after the 2013 election. He has not delivered most of his 2013 pledges and has been concentrating on selling himself for a big county seat. His constituents are furious with him because he has initiated projects just five months to the polls to try and woo them back, telling them he needs to be reelected to complete them. For instance, his constituents are mad at him after telling them that he is only going to tarmac 200 metres of a key road and complete the remaining large portion in the next five years. It is said the 200-metre portion is already under construction.