A relatively tough operating environment for the private sector may pose the greatest challenge to the taxman meeting revised tax target for this financial year, analysts at ICEA Lion Group Asset Managers suggest. The situation has been worsened by a continued freeze on new employment since November 2013, when the government first issued a moratorium to contain wage bill. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has renewed the moratorium annually, with the latest on December 21 last year. The analysts foresee the interest caps, introduced last September, as likely to hurt tax collections because most banks are not lending to high-risk borrowers, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises. The National Treasury on February 9 enhanced tax targets for the full-year to June 30 to Sh1.5 trillion from the initial Sh1.37 trillion, citing more than expected revenues in the seven months. &ldquo;This seems to be an ambitious target set by the government. The full-year 2016-17 revenue collections are expected to fall below target due to lower income tax. Furthermore, the private sector credit growth has been on a decline since August 2015, a possible indicator that businesses are growing at a slower rate,&rdquo; ICEA Lion Group Asset Managers CEO Einstein Kihanda said in an outlook report. Tax collection for seven months through January rose 12.82 per cent to Sh687.39 billion from Sh609.24 billion in the same period a year ago, the National Treasury data shows. This was, however, lower than a half year target of Sh701 billion. The shortfall was attributed to lower income taxes as Pay as You Earn missed the target by Sh17 billion. The ordinary tax cash netted by the KRA represent 51.68 per cent of the initial full-year target of Sh1.33 trillion, Rotich said in a recent Statement of Actual Revenues and Net Exchequer Issues. &ldquo;Income revenues are likely to remain below target as the economy has witnessed a spate of job cuts across the private sector, as well as strikes and freeze in government employment,&rdquo; Kihanda said. The KRA is, however, banking on continued recruitment of new taxpayers through online tax filing platform, iTax, and increased collections following the enforcement of the Excise Duty Act 2015, to meet the ambitious target. The taxman also started linking iTax to third-party databases in December, with the first phase targeting companies getting state tenders under the Integrated Financial Management Information System. The National Treasury expects the KRA to raise Sh1.7 trillion in ordinary revenues in the 2017-18 financial year from July, an additional Sh188.5 billion.