National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri could be investigated by the anti-corruption agencies over claims of fraudulent deals and a Sh1 million bribe.National Assembly Lands Committee chairman Tharaka MP Alex Mwiru yesterday declared him hostile. Swazuri had refused to turn over documents the committee requested.He also refused to respond to a petition seeking his removal. He has a court order stopping the inquiry.&ldquo;We have got those documents have obtained court orders stopping these proceedings,&rdquo; Swazuri said. He was accompanied by his lawyer Tom Ojienda.The documents include letters showing he did not contradict the Lands ministry surveyor to revoke the title deed of a disputed plot off Mombasa Road. It was acquired from petitioner Mugo Njeru for the Standard Gauge Railway. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the CID could take up the probe. Swazuri risks losing his position, going by the committee&rsquo;s declaration that he is hostile. High Court judge John Mativo barred the Lands team from inquiring into the petition until the case is heard on April 11. Mwiru said the inquiry should proceed because his committee is yet to be served. Ojienda objected, saying it is unlawful because it amounts to contempt of court.The order delays the committee&rsquo;s work, especially need to table its report in the House by April 2.Swazuri earlier criticised the committee&rsquo;s role in probing the petition and accused it of being driven by malice to remove him from office.The NLC chairman said he has presided over many compensation issues of institutions, including the Kenya Rural Roads Authority, Kenya Urban Roads and the Kenya National Taxi Corporation, and no integrity questions were raised. &ldquo;The decision to compensate is made by the entire NLC, not the chairman alone. In case someone has not been compensated, he has a right to appeal,&rdquo; Swazuri said.He then successfully obtained a court order to stop MPs from pursuing the petition. He said the committee exceeds its mandate in trying to remove him over the Sh1.2 million bribery claim.Njeru and his wife Edith Wairimu told the committee Swazuri received Sh1 million bribe to compensate them for their plot on Mombasa Road for the SGR. They said the could not afford the extra Sh200,000 demanded.