Fireworks are expected as the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) go to the polls today. The chairman and four directors are up for election this afternoon at the RFUEA grounds. The aspirants will be fighting for the 56 votes available from the various affiliates with the 12 Kenya Cup clubs, having two votes each and the Nationwide and Championship clubs having one vote each. KRU chairman Richard Omwela, director of communications Ian Mugambi and director of national squads and elite performance Oscar Mango, will be seeking a re-election as other new faces look to be elected to the board. They include Strathmore Leos’ director Sylvia Kamau, Kabras Sugar chairman Raymond Olendo, Hillary Itela and Kenya Harlequins treasurer, Ezekiel Owuor. This brings the number of vying directors to seven with only four set to go through. Omwela will face former vice chairman Sasha Mutai and director Pape Sembi for the coveted chairman’s position. Incumbent Omwela was quoted as saying this will be his last term if he is elected and will not be seeking re-election in 2019. “When I came into office, we started a clean up to keep the house in order. We’ve also been trying to bring the sponsors back as well as put the union back to it’s position but that work is half-way. Generally, we’ve done well and that’s why I’m asking for another term to finish what we started,” added Omwela. On his part, Mutai who is a quantity surveyor by profession, said he is confident he will land the top seat. In his manifesto, Sasha plans to revive the Rugby Super Series tournament which was integral in developing the 15s rugby. He has also promised to ensure Kenya Simbas receive the support they require and provide them with all they need to qualify for Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan. He is also keen on developing the women’s game and youth rugby in the country. Pape Sembi, who is a former chairman of Kenya Cup outfit Western Bulls, said the game needs to grow at the grass roots. “I have been in the game for a long time. I have run rugby at club level and I feel the time has come. I have certain leadership skills which I can use to improve Kenya rugby and I would like to offer that to the fraternity,” added Sembi. The race for the directors’ seats is expected to be competitive and candidates have been busy holding last minute meetings and caucuses in the run up to today’s elections. With only four candidates expected to form the board, it looks like straight fight between incumbents Oscar Mango, Ian Mugambi, alongside Sylvia Kamau and Ray Olendo with Hillary Itela, Boniface Salano and Ezekiel Awuor the outsiders. The meeting will also discuss a motion brought by Nondies RFC that will see elected board members serve a four-year term instead of the current two years in line with the Sports Act. “It is important to elect office bearers who will work through the full cycle of global rugby events including the Olympics, 15-a-side Rugby World Cup, the 7s Rugby World Cup and the Commonwealth Games,” read the motion.