Lugari MP Ayub Savula has asked the government to buy the Kenya Integrated Elections Management System through a government-to-government procurement process to safeguard the election timelines. Speaking at Lumakanda CDF offices on Saturday, Savula said the shenanigans in procurement for the software to be used for voter inspection, identification and results transmission could cause delays. “We know Gemalto SA is dissatisfied by the tender cancellation and will move to the tribunal and eventually to court, crippling the commission’s ability to acquire the system in good time,” he said. The government should step in and engage in direct or government-to-government procurement to ensure Kenyans go to the polls as planned, Savula said. The IEBC on Wednesday cancelled the tender awarded to French firm Gemalto of South Africa, citing inadequate budget and time constraints. On Friday, the commission engaged Safron Identity and Security, previously Morpho, to supply the equipment, in a move that is likely to run into legal barriers. The litigations over the tender for the kit will cause delays with the elections only four months away. The opposition has said delays in acquisition of the system and eventual cancellation of the tender by the IEBC was meant to complement mutilates and Jubilee favoured elections. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said the election technology is not an option to the commission, but a legal entitlement to Kenyans. Meanwhile, Savula urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga not to repackage and reintroduce the ICC issues in campaign rallies. “Memories of the 2007-08 post-election violence are still fresh in the minds of Kenyans. The two leaders should exercise caution in their utterances. What Kenyans want is a free, fair, verifiable and credible elections, be it NASA or Jubilee,” he said. The IEBC, on Tuesday last week, terminated a tender for the installation of the Integrated Elections Management System for the August 8 polls. The electoral agency was in the process of concluding the Sh3 billion tender with French firm Gemalto SA. The system is meant to integrate the existing biometric voter registration, the biometric voter identification, the electronic results transmission and the political party and candidate registration systems. But in a letter to the firm, IEBC’s Ezra Chiloba noted that the firm’s bid was “significantly above the budgetary provision”. The CEO also said litigation was a reason for the cancellation. “Given the remaining legal steps to conclude the tender, it will be almost impossible for the commission to execute its mandate within the statutory timelines,” the latter states. According to the Election Laws, IEBC should have the technology in place by the end of March for use on May 10. Top Jubilee officials have been accused of influencing the award of the tender to a firm some termed as having “questionable capacity”. It also emerged that Gemalto SA lacks technical capacity to deliver the complex integrated technology required for the general election. The firm has no history of dealing with elections and in fact, specialises in mobile telephony and banking. However, it would supply Integrated Elections Management Systems, the fulcrum of the polls. The opposition has long been saying the election will be rigged, especially through manipulated and compromised technology.