Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich is likely to target upstart betting firms and companies doing business with the government to raise additional revenues for the next financial year, tax experts said yesterday.The National Treasury expects the Kenya Revenue Authority to raise Sh1.7 trillion in ordinary revenues in the financial year 2017-18 from July. This is about Sh188.5 billion on top of the Sh1.5 trillion revised target for the current financial year ending on June 30.The additional income will come in handy in funding the proposed Sh2.62 trillion budget for 2017-18 financial year, which is more than this year&rsquo;s revised Sh2.48 trillion. Tax experts at audit and business consultancy firm, PKF, said the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming (Amendment) Bill 2016, presently before the National Assembly, will force the cash-rich betting firms to pay taxes. The bill, sponsored by Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, proposes an enhanced taxation regime to ensure the taxman collects more from the lucrative industry. KRA commissioner general John Njiraini told the National Assembly&rsquo;s Departmental Committee on Labour and Social Welfare on February 21 that the agency collected about Sh4.7 billion in corporate tax from betting firms in the last three financial years.&ldquo;Most of the revenue (for the financial year 2017-18 ) will come from enforcement,&rdquo; Michael Mburugu, tax partner at PKF, told reporters yesterday in Nairobi. &ldquo;KRA is currently doing data analysis. Anyone doing business with government will not be able to run away from taxes mainly VAT.&rdquo;This will be possible after the KRA last year said the taxman was linking the iTax to the Treasury&rsquo;s Integrated Financial Management Information System and the Central Bank of Kenya in the first phase. &ldquo;There will be some taxes that we can recover directly even before the money is paid to somebody because of that linkage, like withholding VAT and withholding income tax,&rdquo; Njiraini said during an interview on the iTax-IFMIS. PKF said the tax compliance level is at 43 per cent and could double on enhanced ongoing tax administration reforms. &ldquo;KRA need to be assisted with regulations to widen the tax net. If it seals the tax gaps and make people comply, then a Sh1.7 trillion target is not something that is not achievable. We will even be talking of Sh3 trillion which will ease the burden of borrowing,&rdquo; Mburugu said. &ldquo;We expect a growth of between five and six per cent as the country reaps from the capital projects,&rdquo; PKF CEO Atul Shah said.