The war of attrition pitting the Football Kenya Federation against the Kenyan Premier League shows no signs of abating after the decision by the football body over the weekend to increase the number of teams likely to face relegation for the SportPesa Premier League. On Saturday, FKF President Nick Mwendwa revealed that up to three teams could face the possibility of dripping out of the Premier League with the last two teams automatically being relegated. The16th placed side in the now 18-team league will face off with the third best team in the National Super League to determine who features in the next season top division. “If (relegation/promotion) play-off between the third last in KPL and third best in NSL is not a suggestion, it is a final directive from the federation. It is the sole mandate of the federation to determine the composition of the league as ruled by the Sports Disputes Tribunal. The decision we make are final and KPL have no other choice but to abide by the rulings we make,” Mwendwa said yesterday while pivoting on the happenings in the German Bundesliga. KPL chief executive officer, Jack Oguda, suggested that there are possibilities of further discussion in the latest direction from the federation how the league will be managed coming hot on the heels of the directive that the league be expanded to eighteen teams. “We have to look at the directive of the SDT but we also have the Joint Executive Committee who should address the issue,” said Oguda. FKF CEO Robert Muthomi reiterated the federation’s boss stance, insisting that the league is a property of the federation, who have the sole rights to determine how it is run. KPL is a company that came up to take advantage of the commercial rights of the league. They do so at the discretion of the federation and therefore matters on how the league is managed are up to the federation. The decision on the number of teams to be relegated and promoted is the preserve of the federation as directed by the Sports Disputes Tribunal,” Muthomi remarked. The management of the top flight league has been under scrutiny from the federation for years including during the regime of deposed FKF president Sam Nyamweya. However, court rulings and support from the league sponsors has always seen the KPL prevail in many disputes. Recently though, the federation under Mwendwa, has achieved positive response in their feuds, most notably the decision to expand the league to include 18 teams.