In the run-up to the 2007 election, ODM Kenya was in the process of getting a candidate to face President Kibaki, who was seeking reelection. Having defeated Kibaki at the 2005 referendum, ODM felt it was possible to beat him again in the election.But ODM lost a key member in the process of negotiations when Uhuru Kenyatta led Kanu to backing Kibaki&rsquo;s reelection. Shortly afterwards, Kalonzo Musyoka would bolt out after Raila organised an internal coup that was executed in Tononoka Grounds, Mombasa.Raila ensured his people made it clear to Kalonzo that he would not be the opposition candidate. They drowned out his speech with shouts of &ldquo;nyundo&rdquo; (a hammer pun on Raila&rsquo;s new Hummer).History appears to be repeating itself within the opposition ranks. First, Kanu, which appeared to be warming up to the idea of opposition unity, has already declared its stand - it will support Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection.Secondly, the activities of the last two weeks point to an uncomfortable Kalonzo, who appears to believe that he will be played by Raila yet again. ODM leader Raila cut short his recent foreign trip to come back and deal with what appears to be growing rebellion by one party in NASA.His mission however appeared to abort as Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka failed to attend a crisis meeting last Tuesday and forced a rally that was scheduled for Wednesday to be postponed.At the same time, in the absence of Kalonzo, one of his closest allies, National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze, revealed the former Vice President&rsquo;s thinking. Ukambani appears to have made up its mind that NASA must give Kalonzo the ticket or they will move out.For Wiper, Kalonzo has to get the ticket as the opposition flagbearer or NASA is dead. There will be no NASA without Kalonzo at the top is the message that Wiper is sending to Raila and Musalia Mudavadi.But Raila is also not taking this lying down and appears to be engineering a coup in NASA that will leave Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula with the only options of either backing him or bolting.Last week, it was revealed that the committee set up to come up with a formula for NASA to choose a candidate had settled on Raila. Though not explicitly, the committee is said to have told the NASA principals that only Raila can steer them to a worthy battle against President Uhuru.The committee, which appears to be very pro-Raila, is of the opinion that without the ODM leader on the ballot, then there will be apathy in opposition strongholds. This assertion may have merit given past elections, but it will also mark the end of opposition unity.This is why Kalonzo is uneasy in NASA. It also explains why he has not been ready to meet with his co-principals. The walls appear to be closing in on him and he is not ready to play second fiddle to a losing ticket as he did in 2013.Kalonzo has been trying to raise the stakes by consolidating all the Kamba leadership under him to demand &lsquo;No Kalonzo, No NASA&rsquo;. This is aimed at ensuring that he goes back to the negotiation table with a claim of having the entire Ukambani in his grip.His alternative option is to stand alone as Wiper then do a replay of 2007 &ndash; sign a post-election arrangement to join the Jubilee government as he did with Kibaki. This will guarantee him a place in government and an opportunity to increase his chances of running again in 2022.The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda