Striking doctors at the Kenyatta National Hospital are still stranded after the management refused to sign the Return-to-Work Formula. The hospital board on Thursday evening reinstated 12 doctors who were sacked for participating in the recent nationwide strike. This was after the doctors declined to resume duty until the management reinstated their sacked colleagues. CEO Lily Koros announced their sacking saying they had been advised against participating as the strike was illegal. Read: KNH sacks 12 doctors, 48 facing disciplinary action over strike But the doctors on Friday have accused Koros of refusing to sign the RTWF, saying they will start a hashtag #UnfitKNH to expose the hospital. The doctors signed an agreement and called off their strike on Tuesday when it hit the 100-day mark. Health CS Cleopa Mailu, PS Nicholas Muraguri, Council of Governors chair Peter Munya and KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga signed the deal. Read: Doctors sign deal ending 100-day strike "The CEO has decided to prolong the strike by refusing to sign RTWF with the union. This is after bigger and more powerful offices signed the same documents," a doctor told the Star. The doctor who sought anonymity said while Koros had agreed for the sacked doctors to go back to work, she "wants us to go back on the old salaries". "She is not agreeing to the RTWF allowances. That is the issue. But we cannot go back on the old salaries," the source said. According to a document seen by the Star, the CEO wants the doctors to go back to work regardless, saying the strike was unprotected. "For the avoidance of doubt the rescission of the earlier administrative disciplinary procedures shall not affect the decision to withhold salaries and allowances since the affected doctors were not on duty for part or the whole of period in questions," she said. Koros said even with the intended signing of a Recognition Agreement, the same shall not form the basis for signing of a RTWF. "The industrial action preceded the intended RA and therefore cannot apply retrospectively," she said. She said to promote equity, the management will work out the financial implications of KNH's implementation of the terms of the RTWF. "And request the National Treasury through the MoH to fund the additional allowances in respect of the Hospital," she said. KMPDU's Ouma Oluga said on Thursday that KNH doctors should stay away until the agreements have been signed. "Patients
at KNH will continue suffering as the management, for reasons better
known to them, have failed to sign the return-to-work formula," he said. Oluga
dismissed alleged threats from KNH management that they would sack
doctors, saying: "they do not have enough doctors in the first place." [VIDEO] Doctors' union officials jailed one month for contempt of court Also read: We will have a problem if pay talks flop, Uhuru warns striking doctors