About 349,000 Kenyans have been registered as disabled, making them eligible for a range of benefits and free government services.The listing is a joint effort by the National Council for Persons with Disabilities and the Ministry of Health.Kenya&rsquo;s chief physiotherapist Titus Kilika yesterday said the 349,000 can now access government services, including tax exemption, purchase of duty-free vehicles, free medical cover and enrollment in government cash transfer programmes.Kilika said the ministry of health had helped 9,889 people living with disability get tax exemptions and 693 have bought duty-free vehicles.He said more than 50 per cent of the 349,000 registered have physical disabilities, while 16.9 per cent have mental disabilities.A further 10.02 per cent have visual impairment and 7.03 per cent are hearing and speech impaired.More than five per cent have hearing disabilities; 4.64 per cent have epilepsy; 1.62 per cent have cerebral palsy; 0.89 per cent autism; 0.551 per cent albinism and 0.517 per cent are deaf but can speak.&ldquo;Kenya is a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In Vision 2030, the government is to provide universal health coverage to everyone, including PWDs. This means that we are committed to improving the lives of these individuals in society,&rdquo; he said in Nairobi.At the same time, 46,414 households had been enrolled on the government&rsquo;s monthly cash transfer programme for person with severe disability. Others have free medical insurance through the National Hospital Insurance Fund.Sunscreen lotion and lip balm are available for free in 190 public hospitals for persons living with albinism.Access has increased to emergency and specialised services like surgery, reproductive healthcare, maternal health, ENT, ophthalmology, neurosurgery as well as physiotherapy. &ldquo;The most severe disability ever recorded is attitude, and people with disabilities regarded the government as not being concerned with their welfare. &ldquo;However, the government has been creating a conducive environment and opportunities for PWD services at all levels of service delivery,&rdquo; Kilika said.Before being registered as a PWD, he or she must first be assessed in either a level 4 or level 5 hospital. A disability medical assessment report is then forwarded to the Ministry of Health. There, an oversight committee of five doctors and four physiotherapists evaluates it before forwarding recommendations to the National Council for Persons with Disabilities.Once someone is registered with disability, he or she can apply for benefits such as tax exemption, claim tax relief from hospital treatment and can also import vehicles duty-free. Their tax relief applications must, however, be reviewed by the NCPD before it is forwarded to the Kenya Revenue Authority. In June last year, more than Sh1.8 million was disbursed to women, youths and people living with disability in West Pokot county.