Schadenfreude is the German equivalent of one who takes pleasure in someone else s pain. A bully. Bullying is the use of influence or power to intimidate or force someone to do what you want. Recently, our own Schadenfreudes were unmasked. And as has become our modus operandi, a hashtag #AllianceBullying started trending. As predictable as we are, we quickly put on our miss-two-goody-shoes and righteously condemned what we labelled as despicable behaviour. The reactions spanned the whole spectrum of opinions, and we labelled the bullies all manner of unpalatable names. The Alliance High School old boys have gone ahead and demanded the resignation of the board for its failure to act on the bullies . This is a myopic ultimatum. They say they are embarrassed. I say I am amused. Amused not because there is anything remotely funny about this bullying incident, but amused that they are mortified over actions they are guilty of perpetuating daily. And by extension, all of us as Kenyans. Bullying has become second nature to Kenyans. It is so ingrained in our national psyche that we are hardly conscious when we mete it out on others. And our school yards where bullying traditionally takes place, have mutated and expanded to keyboards, to roads, to pulpits, to labor unions, to parliament and to our media. In simple terms, the students at Alliance High School are not deprived of bully mentors. Scroll down the comments section of any e-story and you will see the e-bullies there aplenty. Not critiquing the essence of the article itself, but bullies using their keyboards to be spiteful, vulgar, hateful and unequivocally crass. It has become a blood sport because cyberbullies lack empathy. Psychologists tell us that we learn empathy by witnessing, hearing or smelling how our actions hurt someone else. Unfortunately, empathy is not something available to those behind a screen and a keyboard. This paucity decreases their individual responsibility while increasing the trap of comradeship. Drive down our roads and you will encounter road bullies with no regard for anyone else but themselves. They behave as masters of the road and expect everyone to tolerate and give way without defiance. They are bullies who unashamedly overlap ultimately creating unnecessary gridlocks, bullies who squeeze into your lane forcing you off the road, bullies who change lanes abruptly and illegally, bullies who hoot at you when you obey the traffic lights, and bullies who continuously flash their lights at you and blare their horns should you dare not to drive at their pace. Seek God in our sanctuaries and you will encounter bully faith leaders who threaten you with fire and brimstone should you not give of your income that will ensure they live a lavish lifestyle while you languish in poverty; bully faith prefects who banish you from their congregation should you dare to question their dogma; bully spiritual guides who condemn you if you date a girl they do not approve of; and bully prayer warriors who present themselves as the mediators between the Grace of God and the believer, reinforcing the false belief that they have a higher degree of access to God. In present day Kenya, try pursuing higher education or seeking medical care, and all you will find are deserted classrooms and hospital wards. Where are the respective service providers? On the streets. Bullying us into accepting a higher tax burden. Read any parliamentary bill and you will be treated to insatiable elected official bullies who demand more and more remuneration in the form of salaries, pensions, allowances, benefits and perks. Attend any political rally and you will be bullied into believing rhetoric of the ratio of several nations against a few and how it is now your turn to eat.Listen to or watch any media station that hosts self labelled political analysts, and you will be entertained at the cognitive bullying by the tyranny of experts , that daily intrude our homes with their partisan views cloaked as political analysis.The list is endless. The anatomy of a bully is that they do not regard their target as dimensional. Their target is an object. A thing. An item. Ndugu zanguni, the walk from bullying to ethnic violence is very very short. Because of regarding human beings as non-dimensional, the Germans did not kill Jews, they killed vermin and bacteria eating at their society; Rwandese did not kill Tutsi s, they killed cockroaches ; Cambodians killed worms ; Armenians killed dogs ; and right here, Kenyans killed madoadoas . So how do we bring the curtain down on bullying before we find ourselves at this extreme end of the spectrum again?Martin Luther King Jr wrote a letter from a Birmingham jail (April 1963) in which he expressed his cognisance of how interrelated, interconnected and interdependent the human race is. That we are all a network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny such that whatever affects one directly, affects all of us indirectly. He was urging humanity to embrace Martin Buber s proposition of the Unity of Being where human life finds meaningfulness in relationships.This requires substituting I-it relationships with I-thou relationships. In I-it relationships the parties are disconnected. The people are merely experiences. In contrast, parties in I-thou relationships acknowledge a living relationship. They do not experience one another. They relate to each other. They feel each other s pain. Carry each other s burdens. Empathize with one another. Ultimately, they share the unity of being. On the checklist of the bullying spectrum, majority of us would not tick bully, but would definitely check off bullied and bystander. If you tick the latter, you are equally as guilty as the bully. So how do we adopt the I-thou relationships?We need to have the moral strength and courage to shatter the trap of comradeship by becoming a resister or defender (B.Coloroso). We need to get unstuck in our limited ideas of who we have defined as the right people. This requires standing up to the bullies and speaking up for those being bullied. Will you be my thou? The writer is a Political Economist.