United States International University-Africa came from behind to hold Kenyatta University 1-1 during the Kenya Hockey Union men s premier league match at the City Park Stadium, yesterday.KU had taken 1-0 first half lead in the 25th minute through captain Lawrence Makhatsa s penalty corner before Brian Kiplimo restored parity for the Tom Olal coached side in the 46th minute through a penalty corner. Hits and misses were the order of the day for both teams in the remaining minutes of play. In a post-match interview, USIU-A coach Olal acknowledged the season won t be easy for any team in the Premier League. Being our first match of the season and with a relatively new side, maybe a draw is what we deserved although I am not satisfied with the result. We had many penalty corners but the players failed to convert. We hope to be more efficient in the forthcoming matches, said Olal.KU assistant coach Simon Mwangi said the match was tough but lauded his defence department for a good performance. USIU A are a good side but I am not happy with our opponents goal as it was a controversial one. However, we will need to work on our transition from defence to attack going forward, said Mwangi.On Saturday, women s champions Orange Telkom started their 2017 campaign on high note with a 3-0 win over Chase Amira. Audrey Omaido struck a brace in the 17th and 41st minutes respectively with the evergreen Jackie Mwangi netting the third goal in the 60th minute.In the men s Premier League, Technical University of Kenya received a 2-0 shock welcome by Chase Sailors. The students earned the promotion to the top tier by virtue of emerging top in the national league last season. Douglas Nyorere and Abraham Moseo scored in the 19th and 50th minutes respectively to award the bankers a deserved win.Earlier, debutants Gorilla played to a 1-1 draw against Daystar University in the national men s league. Francis Ambwere scored for the coastal side in the 67th minute before students restored parity in the 69th minute through Ambrose Kilonzo.