When it comes to drought in Kenya, the more things change, the more they remain the same. The country has experienced perennial drought for three decades. This year, the situation is no different and, the meteorological department says, could get worse. Drought in Kenya dates back to 1975, when it affected 16,000 people, according to the research and policy advisory Institute for Security Studies. In 1977 it hit 20,000 people and in 1980, 40,000, rising in 1983-84 to 200,000. “In 1991/92, 1.5 million people were affected in Coastal, Eastern, Northeastern and Rift Valley regions. In 1995/96, 1.4 million people were affected, with another 4.4 million people facing starvation between 1999 and 2000,” the study shows. In 2004, three million people were in dire need of food aid, a situation that lasted eight months. The country experienced drought again in 2008, where 1.4 million people were affected. In the following two years, nearly 10 million people were at risk of hunger after crop failure.  100 year old Janet Mwalima a grandmother of five receives relief food. She is among vulnerable people including elderly, people living with HIV/AIDs, people living with disability, pregnant women and children under five that have been adversely affected by drought. Photo/Agathat Ngotho CYLCE TIGHTENS According to the 2012 Parliamentary proceedings, Kenya has experienced 28 droughts in the past 100 years, and in the early years, drought occurred about every 10 years. This interval has since reduced in the last two decades, and the country now experiences drought every year. This, according to Parliament, is attributed to the climatic conditions, which have changed drastically, and the rainfall pattern, which is no longer tenable. “The drought cycle has now become shorter, more frequent and intense. The cycle has reduced from every 10 years as people were used to, which allowed farmers to recover and rebuild their crops and livestock before another drought occurred,” the ISS report reads. This persists despite early warnings provided by the meteorological department, the Red Cross Society and other UN agencies, such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation. This year, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared drought a natural disaster, where at least three million people are facing starvation in 23 counties, according to the National Drought Management Authority. The government has released Sh7.3 billion and counties Sh2 billion to be distributed to the livestock, agriculture, water, health and nutrition, interior, special programmes and drought coordination sectors. Early this week, the government doubled its allocation of relief food rations to feed the three million victims. In a supplementary budget tabled in Parliament three months to the end of the financial year, the National Treasury is seeking an additional Sh6.9 billion to deal with the drought. State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said water supply to 23 arid and semi arid counties has been increased, and that the government is buying weak animals, slaughtering and distributing the meat to residents to eat and store in traditional ways, such as drying. Esipisu said the government is also supplying the meat to schools in those areas.  LONG-TERM SOLUTIONS Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the government is taking long-term measures to mitigate against drought. “Livestock insurance is one key thing, which would help us to caution farmers whenever there is a drought situation like what is happening now. This kind of insurance payment is going to help those pastoral households affected by drought,” he said. He adds that the government is also working towards breakthrough interventions, such as water harvesting, as a mitigation measure against drought. “If this concept goes across and every Kenyan embraces water harvesting technology, we will have reduced drought emergencies by half, besides other interventions of ensuring we build boreholes and water pans for our sand areas,” Bett said. NDMA early warning bulletin stated that the number of counties in the alarm category has risen from five to 12 since October last year. These counties include Kwale, Garissa, Isiolo, Kilifi, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, Samburu, Tana River, Turkana, West Pokot and Wajir. Last year, five counties at the Coastal region, including Kilifi, Lamu, Tana River, Kwale and Taita Taveta, were most affected by drought, with 1.3 million people facing starvation, but the number has since risen to three million. “Without urgent and appropriate action, a crisis on the scale of the 2011 drought situation is likely to occur,” NDMA chief executive officer James Oduor said in a press briefing this month. The Overseas Development Institute says the ability to respond to drought is limited not only due to the increasing frequency of drought, but also due to increasing population, a dwindling resource base, conflict, changes in access to land and water. Other factors are the impact of other shocks, such as flooding and disease outbreaks. ODI further states that emergency interventions that tend to be implemented in response to drought are very effective in terms of saving lives, but they are not designed to address the chronic poverty or vulnerability that characterise the arid and semi-arid lands.  FUNDRAISING INITIATIVES In 2010-2011, Kenyans came together through the Kenya Red Cross Society to raise funds to help at least 3.5 million people affected by drought through the 'Kenyans for Kenya' initiative. The initiative raised over Sh677 million, and this year, the society appealed for Sh1 billion to tackle drought effects. The society's secretary general, Abbas Gullet, said the fund will help about 350,000 people in 13 counties facing starvation. He said it will help mitigate drought through provision of nutrition, direct cash transfers, food vouchers, rehabilitation of watering points and animal off-take and slaughter. Some of the counties that will benefit from the appeal include Baringo, Isiolo, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, Samburu, Turkana, Wajir and West Pokot. The 2016 Global Food Security Index states that economies that prioritise investment in agricultural, storage and transport infrastructure increase their capacity to ensure food security for the growing populations. “Sustained investment, especially by the private sector, is critical if countries are to develop the infrastructure necessary to produce and transport sufficient quantities of food in future,” the study reads. "Governments have committed themselves to improving ports, roads and railways, but financing capacity remains an obstacle. Private investment and public-private partnerships are areas of opportunity that could be leveraged to overcome this obstacle." The meteorological department said the country is not out of the woods yet and that the food security situation is expected to deteriorate over most parts of the country. “The distribution of the March-May seasonal rainfall, both in time and space, is expected to be generally poor over most parts of the country. Water scarcity is also expected to continue, while the current problem of malnutrition may increase in the same areas,” MET acting director Peter Ambenje. KIDS, ELDERLY SUFFER Vulnerable people in the society have been the hardest hit across the 23 arid and semi arid counties hurt by drought. These include people living with HIV-Aids, the elderly, women and children under the age of five, who are entirely relying on relief food from the government and other well wishers. In a recent visit to Taita Taveta county, where the National Irrigation Board and the county government were distributing maize from the Galana-Kulalu project, we met Janet Mwalima, who is 100 years old. Too old to queue with other villagers, the grandmother of five sat outside and braved the scorching sun, waiting for relief food. She said she gets food aid from the government every month and that this has become a norm for many residents in some counties, including the 13 that have been hardest hit by the drought. “My grandchildren go to school thanks to bursary and free primary education, but I still have to provide them with food since I am the breadwinner. The food aid goes a long way for my family and with the little maize I will get today, I will make some porridge for them,” Mwalima said. Irene Wanjiku, an agriculture officer in Mwatate subcounty, said the national and county governments have targeted over 25,000 families in need of food aid due to drought in the area. “Many of the affected are the vulnerable, including people living with HIV-Aids, persons living with disability and the elderly. Through a subcounty steering committee, residents have been receiving 2,700 bags of maize every month, with each household taking home about four to five kilogrammes of maize and other food products,” she said. Farmer Veronicah Mkawasi grows maize and green grams in her small family land, but she did not harvest anything due to the erratic rains. She is living with HIV-Aids and she says with no food and money, the relief maize is all she can depend on. “With my HIV status, I have to feed well. I cannot take anti-retroviral drugs on an empty stomach. I need a special diet to go on," she said. 