More than 2,000 families have fled their homes in the Baringo security operation to expel bandits, but they say police terrorise innocent residents.Residents on Monday accused police officers of burning their houses and granaries, killing livestock and extorting money. They said more than 20 houses have been torched.The Dumisha Amani operation is aimed at disarming and flushing out armed bandits who have been terrorising residents of Baringo North and South subcounties.Ann Mukoino said officers on Sunday torched their houses and displaced more than 400 residents of Mukutani.&ldquo;They started torching houses anyhow, without uttering a word,&rdquo; she said. This has caused an exodus of peaceful residents.But county AP commander Robinson Ndiwa yesterday denied the claims, saying there is peace and order.He warned people against spreading lies that some innocent people have been displaced. These could frustrate security efforts, Ndiwa said.He said police are pursuing armed bandits to their hideouts. Earlier, authorities said no innocent person would be targeted. On Wednesday last week, Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo said the operation will be carried out in a humane way.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re only targeting armed bandits who have been terrorising residents. Innocent residents should not be worried about the operation,&rdquo; he said.Residents say this is not so. Mukoino said the officers descended on Lonyangai village in Chepkalacha. Four families lost all their livestock and their grass-thatched houses were torched during the 3.50pm attack, she said.Mukoino accused the officers of extorting money, adding that they got away with Sh20,000 cash. She said the officers, in three armoured personnel carriers and two lorries, left the village after torching granaries and leaving a number of livestock dead.Residents fled towards Laikipia and West Pokot counties. The operation kicked off immediately after Deputy President William Ruto toured the county on Monday last week and declared Baringo North and South disturbed and dangerous.He issued shoot-to-kill order against armed bandits. All illegally held firearms are to be turned in. At that time, at least 10 people had been killed and more than 30,000 Tugens displaced in bandit attacks that had lasted at least a week.The killings drew widespread condemnation. Nineteen areas in Tiaty subcounty have been gazetted as dangerous and disturbed.