Police in Kisumu on Wednesday arrested suspected members of the outlawed ‘China Squad’ for crimes including extorting traders. Assistant IG Joseph Chepkeitany said those arrested included Paul Onyango, Erick Ombima, Geoffrey Okello, Bramham Otieno, Maurice Ochieng, Ben Nyang and Stephen Okoth. The rest were identified as Boniface Ouma, David Kanga, Daniel Otieno, Benard Omondi, Benard Ouma, Erick Walter, Nasir Juma and Hesbon Ochieng. Chepkeitany said they were arrested for robbery, assault, possession of bhang and being members of an outlawed gang. They were taken to Central police station following the operation by the Cobra Squad and the Quick Response Team. Nyanza regional coordinator Wilson Njenga said the suspects,  had been soliciting money from traders and aspirants. Njenga said they will conduct investigations to smoke out the gang's leaders and those who finance their activities. "There is no room for extortion in this region. Why should these gangs reap where they did not sow?" he asked. The administrator said the security team initiated a crackdown on illegal groups in Kisumu including 'The American Marines'. China Squad and American Marines control a number of businesses in the lakeside town and also dictate pick up points for commuters. China Squad owns a number of stalls, runs car hire business used mostly by politicians who visit Kisumu, and provides bodyguards. The American Marines control the Kisumu bus park and have an affiliate group that is in charge of Kondele trading centre. The gangs' activities normally peak when the country is headed to a general election as they are affiliated to politicians. Read: Kisumu residents want China Squad members arrested Past fights between the rival gangs always disrupt business in the lakeside town, an issue the security team said must end. Njenga noted that their activities are illegal but said security officers were committed to weeding out the perpetrators. Saying those arrested will be taken to court to face charges, he assured traders that they will no longer be harassed by gangs. "We will get rid of the illegal groups before the August 8 general election," Njenga said. He urged residents to volunteer information to police on the activities of the outlawed groups. Nyanza regional police coordinator Willy Lugusa warned politicians from the area against hiring goons to disrupt peace. More on this: Origin of 'American Marines' and 'Chinese Squad' gangs  