The 4th Annual Devolution Conference starts today at the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute, Nakuru County. The Clarion call is &ldquo;The Devolution Transformation&rdquo; and the Theme of the 2017 Conference is &ldquo;Devolution &ndash; Transforming Lives: Tell Your Story!&rdquo; The Annual Devolution Conference provides a platform through which all stakeholders in devolution evaluate performance of both levels of governments in matters of policy, law, accountability, good governance, and service delivery, among others. For the past four years there have been concerted efforts to educate the public through word and deed of what devolution is &amp; what it has achieved. According to the council of Governors, the overall objective of the conference will be to safeguard the gains, enhance the understanding and appreciation of devolution as a system of governance that focuses on public accountability and learning new ways of socio-economic development and delivering services. "The Fourth Annual Devolution conference will continue to provide a platform to celebrate and take stock on achievements of devolution, listen to the voices on the impact on Devolution, to interrogate the negative narrative about devolution and to seek to entrench the positive dialogue about devolution," said cog chairman Peter Munya.The conference will adopt the form of a dialogue through panel discussions followed by planetary engagements.Discussion papers will be commissioned as input for the dialogue. Each topic will be discussed separately and in sequence by all the participants.Each paper will pose questions to the participants and the panelists to start a dialogue. The authors of the papers will be invited as speakers. The dialogue model has been found to be favourable in past devolution conferences since dialogue seeks to collectively arrive to answers to the questions. It is not the same as a debate in which the participants are trying to prove the validity of their propositions.The proceedings and presentations made during this conference will be synthetized and published into a report &ndash; Conference Report. A final communique will also be issued at the end of the conference by the conference participants demonstrating their engagement to promote and protect devolution. The Conference will yield a public discussion on why certain interventions during the pioneer years of devolution were successful and able to contribute to inclusive governance, enhanced service delivery, economic growth and employment creation while others had very minimal impact. Finally, a dedicated website will be built to host the proceedings and major outputs of the conference.