A confident Aden Duale has declared that Jubilee will defeat NASA by at least three million votes from Kiambu, Meru and Nakuru. The National Assembly Majority leader mapped out the three as the key areas where Jubilee Party will get block votes guaranteeing landslide victory. Duale said President Uhuru Kenyatta's party could rest assured of 1.4 million votes in Kiambu, 800,000 in Meru and a million in Nakuru. These add up to 3,200,000 votes. “We
shall defeat NASA by three million votes," he said during a rally at Municipal stadium in Malindi on Sunday, to celebrate the defection of top Coast politicians from NASA to Jubilee. Duale, who is Garissa Town MP, likened Jubilee's representation across the country to Nakumatt's, and said this was not the case for the National Super Alliance. But NASA co-principal Raila Odinga (ODM) said Kenyans have become enlightened and that parts of the country can no longer be referred to as party zones. Raila said the Opposition will raid more Jubilee zones to win votes as tribes will not determine the outcome of the August 8 election. More on this: Raila declares vote-hunting war, says Nasa will raid more Jubilee zones Also read: Jubilee maps strongholds, battle zones Duale defended
the Jubilee administration on matters grants, saying they have been used to implement key projects that are transforming the nation. The legislator also
responded to Raila's claim that a Sh28 billion grant from the UAE was used to build terminal two of the Mombasa port. “Since Uhuru took over, Kenya Ports Authority has released more than a million
containers because of a Japan grant used to build terminal 1. It was approved by the
National Assembly where Raila also has MPs," he said. Read more: Japan grants Kenya Sh27bn loan for container terminals The Majority leader said the President has taken grants to improve livelihoods through modernisation of the port and the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway and roads. He asked Raila to tell Kenyans what happened to grants when he was Prime Minister, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka was Vice President and Ford Kenya's Moses
Wetang'ula was a minister. Among leaders present were Cabinet Secretaries Dan Kazungu (Mining), Eugene Wamalwa (Water), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution) and Tana River Governor Hussein Dado. Others Coast MPs and politicians allied to JP, including former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae, Kilifi North MP Gideon
Mung’aro, Mustafa Idd of Kilifi South and Magarini’s Harrison Kombe. Kenya has received grants from countries including France and Denmark. France gave a 40 million Euros (Sh4.4 billion) grant in December 2015 to cover 27.5 per cent of a Lake Victoria water and sanitation programme and a slums upgrade project. In December that year, Denmark gave a Sh15 billion grant to fund different projects for five years. The projects were in the governance, health, human rights, justice, environment, women and economic sectors. The Energy sector received a major boost last December when US President Barack Obama's government gave grants worth Sh700 million for green energy projects. The money will be channeled through the Kenya Electricity Generating Company, which signed the agreement with the United States Trade and Development Agency on behalf of the Kenyan government. More on this: Kenya receives Sh700m in grants for energy sector Also read: Treasury signs Sh82 billion syndicated loan - PS Thugge