Once upon a time, a vixen who had taken her kits out for a walk one warm morning came across a lioness with her cub in arms. &ldquo;Why such pride dear lioness over one solitary cub?&rdquo; sneered the vixen. &ldquo;Look at my healthy and numerous litter here and imagine, if you are able, how a proud mother should feel.&rdquo;The lioness gave her a squelching look, and lifting up her nose, walked away, saying calmly, &ldquo;Yes, just look at that beautiful collection. What are they? Foxes! I&rsquo;ve only one, but remember, that one is a Lion.&rdquo;The vixen was focused on quantity instead of quality like the lioness. Today, we have four men who are focused on their four-way power play forgetting they do not have the qualities to convince Kenyans they can lead the country.Every day for the last couple of months, Kenyans have been treated to what seems like a show of men trying to convince themselves about their mission. The National Super Alliance, as they call it, is an outfit bringing together four power-hungry individuals who have no capacity to decide on a flagbearer.Today, they are using crowds to first satisfy their egos that they are accepted across the country and, secondly, to hoodwink the country that they have supporters across the board.The reality is that these crowds translate into nothing, with the majority of people in the core NASA zones having not registered as voters. Nyanza and Western had the lowest turnout of new voters in the just-concluded mass registration.In addition, the NASA principals are facing a revolt from some of their diehard supporters as witnessed over the last year or so. The defections, more than 50, of elected opposition leaders to the ruling Jubilee side is just a tip of the iceberg of this revolt.One may argue that the Jubilee Party also faces defections. Those who are moving from JP are not moving to the opposition but to parties that are friendly to the Jubilee administration and supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection.Those who have moved from JP to the opposition were losers in the March 4, 2013, general election, such as Chirau Mwakwere and Sam Ongeri, whom Jubilee helped by giving them jobs as envoys.It is also clear that many ghosts of the past will come to haunt the opposition, whose principals do not even trust each other. Today, in their art of deceit, they are praising each other and claiming to be clean, but we all know their pasts.Raila Odinga has not dealt with the allegations relating to the Kazi kwa Vijana scam, the maize scandal and now the Dominion Farms extortion claims.Musalia Mudavadi has the ghost of the multibillion-shilling Goldenberg scandal around his neck and is yet to explain to Kenyans how and why he paid for the scam using taxpayer money. In fact, now that they are partners with Raila, he should respond to the former PM&rsquo;s attacks on him over the issue ahead of the 2002 election.Kalonzo Musyoka has always tried to deflect the grabbing of 200 acres that belonged to the National Youth Service. And Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula has that unresolved matter of the Tokyo Embassy scandal.All these four men have served in government, with Raila at one point being Prime Minister, Kalonzo and Mudavadi rising to the position of Vice President and Deputy Prime Minister, and Wetang&rsquo;ula as Foreign Affairs minister.Besides, most Kenyans cannot tell what these gentlemen have done for the country over the years. They totally lack the capacity to match what President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have done in the past four years to transform the country.Their combined corruption scandals and political ambitions, coupled with their history of failed presidential attempts, translate into one confused, disorganised, power-hungry group with no plan or vision.