On the fourth floor of Kenyatta National Hospital, the biggest referral hospital, one room is set aside. In the room are three small metallic beds. They are well made, two of them draped in cartoon-themed bed covers. Teddy bears and toys wait to be utilised. Two purple potty&rsquo;s are under one of the them.In one corner of the room stands a small white wardrobe with clothes and different brands of diapers tucked inside. At the balcony are baby clothes hanged on the line. Carol Mukiri, 29, has just bathed her girl twins and a nurse is helping to dress them. Today they are wearing white dresses decorated in red and black. The once conjoined twins, Blessing Kathure and Favour Karimi, are jovial but attention seekers. Each of them wailing, demanding attention from the mother.This small room has been Carol&rsquo;s home for the more than two years she has been at KNH. "I have never been in prison but this feels more like one," she said.Eight months into the pregnancy of the twins, Carol developed labour pains. She was taken to St Theresa Mission Hospital in Meru, where she delivered through Caesarean section. She had had a scan at six months and was aware she was carrying twins. &ldquo;I am born in a family with a history of twins, so I wasn't surprised,&rdquo; she said.Being told her twins were conjoined was more than shocking. &ldquo;A doctor broke the news to me immediately I regained consciousness,&rdquo; remembers Carol.Since that day, tears never dried from her eyes. Frustrations kept following her. Her husband took off. &ldquo;He has never set eyes on his children. He even refused to come after delivery. The pain was too much. He left us when we needed him the most. I don't want to ever see him again." As if that was not enough, Carol was asked to pay Sh12,000 to facilitate for an ambulance to KNH, an amount she could not afford since she was a casual labourer."I blamed God for everything. Why did he subject me to so much while he knew so well I did not have money? Why didn't he give me money first?&rdquo;Due to the seriousness of the situation and the publicity it attracted, the hospital had to chip in and cater for the expense. Her mother has, however, been paying back the money.CONFLICTING ADVICEWhen she walked into KNH in 2015, Carol thought she would be there for only a few days. She was hopeful that her children would be separated and released in no time.&ldquo;I was excited and the doctor who received me gave me hope and assured me the babies would be successfully separated.&rdquo;The assurance was, however, short-lived. Frustrations started setting in. She received conflicting and confusing advice from all corners, with people discouraging her not to allow the hospital to do the surgery.&ldquo;Many people told me KNH had no facilities to do such an operation, while others gave me names of private hospitals where I should take them,&rdquo; she said.Her lowest point was one day when a nurse told her that her children were a 'gone case' and stood no chance. She asked her to just leave them at the hospital, pretend she never gave birth and move on with her life.&ldquo;I felt hopeless. Here was someone in uniform taking away the little hope that was in me. It can never get lower than that.&rdquo;Most of the &lsquo;well-wishers&rsquo; who were purportedly advising her were not known to her.&ldquo;People would just walk in and start telling me KNH is a learning facility and they would use my children to teach and experiment. It was frustrating.&rdquo;She did not know which advice to take and which not to. &ldquo;I ended up listening to everyone.&rdquo;Carol admits to having given doctors a hard time. &ldquo;I became difficult because going by what I was being told, the doctors were lying to me that the babies would survive and they were taking advantage of my situation. Two years' wait is not a short time,&rdquo; she said.Rose Njoroge, a psychologist counselling her, said Carol accumulated a lot of chronic anxiety as a result of the long wait."Sometimes she was too depressed to want counselling. I remember one time during a session she asked me if I thought she was mentally sick to keep on counselling her," remembers Njoroge.She adds that Carol was getting too much negative influence from the outside world and they had to let her be at times."I would spend so much time with her then, people would come behind our backs and poison her. We understood her frustrations and sometimes we would let her cry. It is, after all, therapeutic."Carol always wanted her children to sleep so as to cry. "On several occasions, I cried while they watched but I knew that wasn&rsquo;t right so I could always try to make them sleep."She had taught them how to pray and at times they comforted her and told her God will help her.TRANSFER TO PRIVATE WARDWhen the outside influence became too much, the hospital had to intervene and remove her from the public ward to the private room, where we found her within close proximity to the nurses' desk.The hospital started monitoring those who were visiting her. No one would be allowed to see her without permission from the management."We got information that some people were planning to take her away with the children and we had to protect her from such negative energy," ward manager Fredrick Muthusi said.Her anxiety heightened when she was informed when the operation would be done. "I wanted my children to live. I would rather have stayed with them while conjoined than lose them. I again became difficult," Carol said.November 1 last year is a day that will forever remain with Carol. She remembers wheeling her children to the entrance of the theatre in denial. "So much was going on in my mind, I was hopeful but again I had to expect and accept anything."Just before handing them to the surgeons, Carol embraced the girls, kissed them, then broke down. "It was painful to watch her in that state," counsellor Njoroge said.With her mother, her sister, two brothers and a Catholic sister, Carol went straight to church after that. Njoroge was left in theatre and was assigned to give updates on phone to the family."My family stood with me. That day we prayed and cried. The wait became long and painful, but after six hours, positive updates started coming," Carol said.PRAYERS ANSWEREDFor the whole 23 hours that the surgery lasted, Carol was mostly on her knees, asking God to save her children. "At midnight, Njoroge came where we were, embraced me and said the children were in different rooms and out of danger. I broke down again but this time of joy mixed with fear."In the morning, she was walked to ICU and she saw them, each in her room, and medics still working on their back. "It was unbelievable, God had indeed answered my prayers."Their healing was described by medics as tremendous and fast. The 10 days they spent in the critical care unit were termed as the most difficult. "The wounds were too huge and any risk of an infection would have affected the spine. Those 10 days were very precious," Muthusi said.The twins are currently not under any medication but still undergo therapy. Occupational therapist Joyce Cherono says they have been working on one of them who developed a minor deformity on the left leg."Because of the position they were in before separation, one of them was not able to step on the ground with the left foot. We have been working on it and the progress is good," Cherono said.As the hospital prepares to have them released, Carol is worried about where to start from. "I wouldn&rsquo;t want to go back to my ageing mum and become a burden," she says.The last born in a family of six hopes to get into business and be in a position to support her children. She knows how to plait and can do salon work.