ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday took a swipe on President Uhuru Kenyatta for 'using underhand tactics to reintroduce the old Constitution'. He said Uhuru publicly announcing that he regrets working under the current constitution raises fears of the president's commitment to upholding the supreme law. The president, during an interview with Citizen TV on Monday this week, said he would have preferred to work the previous set of laws. "I was shocked when the President said he regrets working under the new constitution, saying that if it was the old one, things would have worked better," Raila said. He said this was the reason the opposition doubts Uhuru's commitment to the entrenchment of devolution, adding that he is acting like a 'watermelon'. "Uhuru swore to Kenyans to defend and implement the Constitution. When were fighting for it, he was a ‘watermelon’." Deputy President William Ruto and Uhuru headed the ‘NO’ campaigns ahead of the 2010 referendum that saw ‘YES’ proponents led by Raila lead. "His deputy rejected the constitution. Up to now, they are still proving they do not have trust in the new law," he said. Raila said the recent brawl over projects pitting Uhuru and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho should not be allowed with the advent of the new law. He said Uhuru's disregard to the new constitution is the reason for the competition with governors over development projects. The opposition chief cited the re-launch of Mtongwe services as one of the cases, adding that Uhuru should be reminded that ferry and harbour services are devolved. The Council of Governors has also on a number of occasions blamed the national government for trying to 'kill' devolution. "Devolution has brought services closer to the people. Money from National Treasury can be used to improve the living standards," Raila said. This was when he, accompanied by Joho, toured the state-of-art football pitch under construction at Kongowea, Mombasa. Raila said Uhuru does not understand that Kenyans no longer treasure the old constitution adding that the same was buried in August 2010. He said devolution is what citizens wish for, adding that most Kenyans do not want a situation where commands come from the capital, Nairobi. The ODM boss said devolution has brought two distinct governments, which ought to cooperate with each other of which none should be subordinate to the other. "A governor is not a PC whose affairs faded with the old constitution. Governors have been elected by people and handed responsibility to run county affairs," he said. Raila said Uhuru’s act of foolishness and primitiveness involving barring of governors who criticize him should be condemned. The NASA principal said Uhuru must also learn that the right to assembly must be respected as envisaged in Article 37 of the Constitution. "Every other Kenyan has the right to attend a public function…it is an insult and gross violation of constitution he swore to protect and to defend," he said.