What Raila is trying to do &ndash; and NASA in particular &ndash; is to get some sort of percentage in regions like Meru. However, suffice it to say that, this time round, unlike before, Raila has a message.And he has very good advisers, who have advised him on the specific message he should carry to Meru. As we all know, Meru has had issues with miraa: 80 per cent of the economy of places like Imenti is miraa-driven.Remember, they lost a huge market after the ban on miraa in the UK and that has affected the economy of Meru. We are looking at Sh1 billion industry that has come to a screeching halt.What the people of Meru have been saying is that we are suffering and nobody in government has ever gone to negotiate with the UK government on behalf of the miraa farmers. We receive so much product from the UK, cigarettes so to speak. This is a tobacco product that you and me know has ingredients proven the world over as causing lung cancer and many other opportunistic diseases. Miraa really has no known negative effect. Everything anti-miraa that we heard and read coming from the UK government was nothing but allegations.We had lab results that came the other day. They were overwhelmingly supportive of the business.Raila took that message home and it does resonate well with them. He is endearing himself profoundly and straight to the heart among the people of Meru. Do not forget, Meru, unlike any other region within what I will call the greater Kikiyu community, is the only place where you had two elected ODM legislators.If I were in Jubilee, I would have major concerns. They need to sit down with the Meru leaders and find out what can be done to salvage the situation. Raila knows he will not get a huge chunk of votes from Meru. I am sorry to say this, but we are still balkanized in voting along tribal lines. Many people in Meru would still vote for Uhuru Kenyatta.But what Raila is looking for is only a percentage: If he takes away only 10-15 per cent in Meru, trust me that would be a serious dent on Jubilee. Uhuru and JP have some work to do in Meru and the faster they do it, the better for them.Muthuma is a political analyst