Kenyans could face a transport crisis should matatu owners make good their threat to withdraw their services.Matatu owners yesterday threatened to barricade roads countrywide to kick out Proboxes operating as public service vehicles.They said the cars are not PSV-compliant and should not be allowed to offer services.Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai said the cars hurt their business.He said despite several attempts to engage the police to end the illegal business, no action has been taken.The majority of Kenyans rely on PSVs. We will not sit back and see our business die. We can t wait to die. We are not going to the graveside without any action, Kimutai said.He said the vehicles do not pay for PSV licences and do not have insurance cover for passengers, yet they have been allocated picking and dropping points by county governments.Kimutai was speaking during an MOA Governing Council meeting at the Oak Place Hotel, Nairobi. He blamed corrupt traffic police officers for allowing the business to flourish as they pocket millions of shillings from the Probox drivers. It is an illegal business. The only ting they can do is taxi service. They should not be given termini. They should be parked near supermarkets to do taxi work, Kimutai said.He said the industry loses billions of shillings every year to corrupt traffic police officers, who threaten matatu operators with trumped-up charges.Kimutai said all MOA members have been instructed to provide their crews with cameras to record activities of the police on the road and share footage with the relevant authorities. Today, I can tell you most of these minibuses can t bring in Sh100,000 in a month. They bring about Sh80,000 or Sh70,000, yet we pay Sh120,000 for loans. We also have to pay insurance and other charges, he said. Law enforcement officers have come in full swing and they are not enforcing the law anymore. They are collecting revenue for their own benefit. It is no longer willing buyer, willing seller. Kimutai blamed the police and county law enforcement officers for failing to provide security to their crew.Most bus stations and stages are run by gangs who threaten matatu operators if they are not given money, Kimutai said.