One of the four men whose bodies were found in a car abandoned in Gitaru, Kiambu, last month was buried on Saturday.Shadrack Wanjohi, 37, who until his death operated a butchery in Umoja estate, Nairobi, was laid to rest at his farm in Rurii, Ol Kalou. Others killed alongside him were David Chege, a doctor, Martin Musyoka, a mitumba seller and Joseph Mwangi, a conductor.The church and family members urged the government to investigate why the four were killed and bring to book those who killed them.Rev Kamau Thairu of PCEA Kihumo Parish said the deaths of the four are worrying. He said everyone, be it a thief or murderer, deserves justice. &ldquo;Losing a man or a woman is a great loss to this nation,&rdquo; Thairu saidWanjohi was an orphan. His parents died when he was a child.He was raised by his father&rsquo;s elder brother, Simon Kimandu. &ldquo;We want to know the truth and see that justice is served,&rdquo; Kimandu said.He said the postmortem showed Wanjohi died a painful death.Wanjohi was strangled and hit on the head with a blunt object. Blood had mixed with the brain. &ldquo;It is good we found his body and buried him. But why did he die? If he owed someone, we could have paid. People sell even land to pay debts,&rdquo; Kimandu said.Wanjohi&rsquo;s half-brother, advocate Kaniaru Kimandu, said the government, through the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, should take the deaths of the four seriously, given that an accusing finger is being pointed at the police. &ldquo;We are worried because we expect the government to protect its citizens,&rdquo; he saidKaniaru said the justice system is &ldquo;not impotent&rdquo; and the four should have been taken to court if they had committed any crime, instead of being killed. &ldquo;The judicial process is there and our criminal justice system is working,&rdquo; he saidWanjohi is survived by a widow and five children.Doctor tortured Last week, a postmortem revealed that another of the four murdered men, 51-year-old Dr Chege, was tortured before he was killed.Pathologists confirmed Chege suffered a fractured rib cage. They said the injuries in his neck were an indicator he was strangled.Chege&rsquo;s body was found a day after his son was killed by police in Kinyago, Dandora, on suspicion that he was a criminal. Police said they recovered a homemade pistol and two bullets from his son, 24-year-old son Alex Ngugi.The mystery murder has since been linked to a fight with the police. The families of the killed men have linked Chege&rsquo;s death to a dispute with officers from the Kinyago AP camp who are accused of fatally shooting the son.Detectives from the DCI headquarters homicide unit have taken over investigations. The murder has close resemblance to the murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri on June 23 last year. Mwenda, a boda boda operator in Mlolongo, was killed together with his lawyer after he allegedly declined to withdraw a case in which he had sued an AP officer for threatening to kill him.Police investigations revealed the three were picked up by AP officers, whom they are said to have clashed with while driving from the Mavoko law courts.Their mutilated bodies were found in the Oldonyo Sabuk River, a week later. Four AP officers based at the Syokimau AP camp have been arrested and charged with the murders. Recently, Kabete police chief Joseph Ongaya said investigators suspect the men were killed elsewhere and dumped in his area.