Debate is raging in Kisii as to whether Senator Chris Obure and Senate aspirant Sam Ongeri should remain in politics owing to their advanced age. Obure is seeking to be governor on the Jubilee Party ticket. He is 75. Ongeri is seeking the ODM ticket for the Senate seat. He is 79. Ongeri joined politics in 1988, when he was elected as Nyaribari Masaba MP. Obure joined politics in 1969, he ran for Machoge Bassi MP and lost. He lost again in 1974 but won the seat in 1979. The two have served in the government for decades in various capacities, including as Cabinet ministers. Obure’s opponents, including Governor James Ongwae of ODM, Manson Nyamweya (KNC), Lumumba Nyaberi (Wiper) and Boniface Omboto of Kanu say the senator should step down. “Obure should resign or we will embarrass him on August 8. He has been there for decades and should give way for fresh leadership,” Nyamweya said. Former CIC chairman and senator hopeful Charles Nyachae also wants Ongeri to retire on account of age. The younger Nyachae said Ongeri should follow his father Simeon in retirement. “My age is no big deal. What I bring to the people is what matters,” Ongeri was quoted saying in a local daily. ODM leader Raila Odinga defended Ongeri saying, “The Senate needs experienced people like Ongeri who can defend devolution. The National Assembly should be a reserve of young people.” Former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara and former nominated MP George Nyamweya also want to be senator. Civil rights defender and director of Future of Kenya Foundation Cyprian Nyamwamu said Obure and Ongeri should “get out of the way”. “Ongeri and Obure should mentor, not compete with the youth until they die. The youth are socialised, encouraged, supported and coached to become able leaders,” he said. Nyamwamu added in a Facebook post, “Rift Valley senators were born in 1981, governors like Tolgos are in their 40s. Why can’t Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Chache MP) be supported for the Jubilee governor candidate by Obure.” He also told Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama to step down. Nyamwamu said youthful politicians like Kitutu Chache South ODM aspirant Anthony Kibagendi should be supported for the Senate seat, not Ongeri. “We devolved five values namely; service delivery, finances, administration, representation and inclusion and citizen participation. Governors Ongwae and Nyagarama have not delivered these five values but they want to be reelected by promising to deliver Sam Ongeri,” he said. Other politicians who have been around for decades are Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi and his Bobasi counterpart Stephen Manoti. The two Jubilee Party politicians face an arduous task in their bid to regain their seats. Kibagendi said, “The greatest challenge we have isn’t lack of alternative leaders and thinkers. For our community, our peers and our generation, good leaders are those who have stolen and have a lot of money to purchase their vote.”