Once arrested, Kenyan children enter the revolving doors of the juvenile justice system and begin a path that takes them from police lock-up to court and from court to remand centres. From there they may oscillate back and forth between court appearances and remand for months or even years before finally receiving disposition of their cases.Article 53 of the constitution provides that every child has a right not to be detained except as a measure of last resort, and when detained, to be held for the shortest appropriate period of time, and separated from adults and in conditions that take account of the child&rsquo;s sex and age.After the court process, the children are committed for years to juvenile correctional institutions formally known as approved schools.&lsquo;BEYOND PARENTAL CONTROL&rsquo;There are 11 juvenile centres in the country, two of them for girls and nine for boys. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s more likely to find young boys in crime than girls,&rdquo; said Justus Muthoka, assistant director at the Social Services ministry, children&rsquo;s department.While some of the children in these institutions were street children, others are those &lsquo;beyond parental control&rsquo; and they end up in the system. We recently visited the Kirigiti Girls Centre in Kiambu, one of the two girls&rsquo; juvenile institutions, to get a clearer picture of how and why the children found themselves on the wrong side of the law.On this day, Kirigiti has 74 girls, a number that changes every other day. Each day, between two and three girls are brought to the institution. &ldquo;The numbers fluctuate but on average, we usually have between 70 and 100 girls,&rdquo; manager Jennifer Chepngeno said.The institution hosts children from all over the country for various offences. &ldquo;Some of them may have been living in the slums and they move out to look for food, prompting them to steal, and then they get arrested and end up in court,&rdquo; Muthoka said.He clarified that not all children in the juvenile justice system are offenders. &ldquo;Some are in need of care and protection, most of whom are orphans and neglected by family,&rdquo; he said.A talk with some of the children revealed that family breakdown, frustrations and poverty pushed them to crime, with divorce being a prominent factor. Since all the children are below 18, names will be changed for their privacy.Mary was in class seven when her parents divorced. The frustrations of seeing her family break was too much and she could not handle it. &ldquo;We moved out with our mum and life changed for the worse,&rdquo; said the firstborn in a family of six.One day, she had an argument with her mother and what came to her mind was outrageous. &ldquo;I picked a matchbox, poured kerosine on a suitcase holding my mum&rsquo;s clothes and I put it on fire,&rdquo; she remembers. She remembers the whole house catching fire, with only a few household goods being salvaged with help from the neighbours. &ldquo;Today I regret my actions but I believe that had my parents stayed together, I would never have found myself confined here.&rdquo;Mary was taken to a police station by her mother and the court process began. Last year, she was put in the juvenile for three years. She says her mother has visited her only once since she was put in. &ldquo;We had a lengthy talk and she said she had forgiven me,&rdquo; said the class eight pupil, adding that she wished she would visit her more. Mary said life in the juvenile is not easy.Joan&rsquo;s story is no different from Mary&rsquo;s, apart from the offence committed. Her parents divorced and due to frustrations, she refused to go to school. &ldquo;I became very difficult to my mother and she had no choice but to take me to the police,&rdquo; she says.It&rsquo;s her second year in custody and she was put in for three. &ldquo;I am in class eight and I hope to pass my exams later this year,&rdquo; she said, adding that she has already changed. Joan would like to be a lawyer in future to fight for the rights of children.Margaret&rsquo;s family is so poor such that it&rsquo;s impossible to afford three meals a day. One day she went to a neighbour&rsquo;s house and stole ripe bananas. &ldquo;They caught me and took me to a police station. When my mum, who is single, was called, the neighbours refused to negotiate with us,&rdquo; she remembers. Margaret went through the system and in 2014, she was put under custody for one and a half years.CALL FOR DIALOGUEMuthoka agrees that some of the offences leading to children being put under custody are too petty. He urged parents and neighbours to initiate dialogue with children instead of putting them through judicial system.In some instances, children are used by adults and in the process, they find themselves arrested. &ldquo;We have a girl here who was apprehended after she was caught with bhang. The likelihood of that girl being the one selling or using the substance are almost nil, but she ended up locked up,&rdquo; Muthoka said.The institution has a formal education system spiced up with vocational trainings, such as baking, tailoring, beauty and catering. Those exiting and interested in business in any of the trainings offered are given start-up kits.Before reintegrating the children back to the community, a committing officer is sent to the ground, where they prepare the family and encourage the community to accept them back. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s called the aftercare. The officers follow up and ensure the child is safe,&rdquo; Muthoka said.Gender Affairs PS Zainab Hussein, who visited the centre to mark world International Women&rsquo;s Day together with EU Ambassador Stefano Dejak, said there is a blurred line between children&rsquo;s needs and being in conflict with the law. &ldquo;Most of these girls are here for begging and other petty offences. You are not alone, we will walk with you all the way,&rdquo; she assured them.Zainab said the government will be introducing an ICT learning centre at the institution. &ldquo;You can be pioneers and do bigger things than we have done. Dream hard and aim higher and I will help you get there,&rdquo; she said.She pledged to establish a mentorship programme for girls in rehabilitation institutions with the support of all women PSs, and promised to provide enough sanitary towels for the girls. &ldquo;We want to create confidence in these girls and show them that someone in the world trusts them,&rdquo; Zainab said.Stefano Dejak said the EU will keep supporting the institution and other rehabilitation centres to help eliminate all forms of violence to children held by the state for protection or custodial care. &ldquo;Girls in the juvenile justice system are at high risk of serious violations of their human rights,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Every child should be treated with dignity as a unique and valuable human being with an individual personality, distinct needs, interests and privacy. All children should have access to and benefit from national child protection systems that respect their rights.&rdquo; There are an estimated 12,000 children in the juvenile justice system countrywide. The 11 rehab/correction centres hold those who have gone through the judicial process and are minor offenders.There are two borstal institutions that hold the serious offenders. &ldquo;There is Shikusa Borstal Institution in Kakamega and Shimo la Tewa in the Coastal region,&rdquo; said Muthoka. Borstals hold boys from age 15 to 18 for a maximum of three years, depending on the gravity of their offences.&ldquo;If children are taken to juvenile rehabilitation centres and they become a bother, we refer them to borstals. They hold the hardest boys,&rdquo; Muthoka said. There are also 14 remands and 4 rescue centres for children.