NASA affiliates are headed for a clash after ODM unveiled a timetable for its own primaries, signalling that joint nominations are officially dead.The affiliates will compete against each other at the August 8 poll.The Orange party announced its primaries in nearly all counties, where more than one party claims influence. They include Mombasa, Kakamega and Bungoma. The party, however, favours joint nominations. The coalition shall endeavour to field a single candidate for each parliamentary, gubernatorial and county assembly seat, in accordance with the methods set out, states the NASA agreement signed on February 22.Failed consensus undermines NASA s plans to control the Senate, National Assembly and county assemblies.Cord failed to win a number of seats at the Mach 4, 2013 election after each party fielded candidates across the nation. This gave the Jubilee coalition room to reap big. However, Article 9 Section 4(a) of the NASA agreement provides room for affiliates to individually field candidates for the county seats after a failed consensus between coalition partners.Ford Kenya, Wiper, and ANC want to field candidates individually. Officials interviewed across the four parties accused governors and senators interested in the county top jobs of holding principals to ransom by demanding direct tickets. Following resolution of the attempt to blatantly influence what essentially should be a free and fair nomination, I will now fully participate in the Wiper nomination for Kitui governor, Wiper chairperson David Musila said in a press statement.The demands for direct tickets by some officials have found their way into NASA talks. It could compromise the alliance s activities ahead of the August polls.The face of the disagreement remains in Kakamega, Mombasa, Bungoma, Makueni and Kitui counties, where boardroom negotiations spill out to the public.Kakamega and Mombassa are headed by Wycliffe Oparanya and Hassan Joho, both of ODM. We in Mombasa and ODM will abide by their decision. If they want us to hold joint nominations we are ready. If they want individual parties to conduct their nominations, we are still ready, Joho said after his US tour.ANC and Ford Kenya stake claim on Kakamega and Wiper on Mombasa. ODM remains influential in both counties based on the number of elected leaders.