An influential parliamentary committee plans to slash the Judiciary’s budget by Sh200 million to “punish” the courts for extending mass voter registration. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had set February 14 as the last date, but Justice Chacha Mwita extended the deadline by five days to February 19. This followed a successful petition filed by activist Okiya Omtatah. The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, mandated with oversight of the Judiciary and the IEBC, is pushing to slap the courts with a huge reduction of its budget. The panel says the money will plug the electoral agency’s budget deficit occasioned by the five-day extension of the voter listing. The money will be used to pay registration clerks and meet administrative expenses. Committee chairman Samwel Chepkonga said the Judiciary must be “made to pay for their inordinate” decisions. “We are very clear that the additional funding the IEBC is looking for must come from the Judiciary. The electoral commission had budgeted well until the courts occasioned additional expenditure,” he said. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said the commission requires an additional Sh200 million to settle pending bills after the listing drive. “We had not anticipated that the time would be extended. We have a deficit in our budget that the committee should help us bridge,” he said when he appeared before the committee. The move by MPs is aimed at attempting to send a clear message to the Judiciary, which lawmakers have accused of interfering with the work of other arms of government. The Judiciary has stepped in to stop parliamentary business, both in the plenary and committees, when sitting as quasi-judicial bodies. Auditor General Edward Ouko moved to court and successfully stopped the proceedings of the Finance, Planning and Trade Committee, which was probing a petition filed against him by Emmanuel Mwagambo. The orders remain until May 10 ,when the case filed by Ouko challenging his removal will be heard. MPs have argued that the Judiciary has no mandate to interfere with or stop them from their legislative, oversight and representation duties. But the Judiciary says it cannot hesitate to intervene if convinced that the law has not been followed when MPs conduct business as quasi-judicial bodies.