NASA&rsquo;s National Coordinating Committee is said to be considering a power-sharing deal whereby ODM and Wiper would split governor seats.The possible arrangement, hinted at by a NASA insider, would mean ODM shelves plans to field governor candidates in some counties in favour of Wiper.If ratified, such a deal would end controversies over who will control the Coast &mdash; but it would also end ODM dominance. However, it could help preserve the opposition NASA alliance.The NASA insider told the Star, &ldquo;The Coast seat (division) talks were not perched up firmly, and no one will be comfortable discussing them, because it will mess presidential options.&rdquo; If a deal is reached,the Coast would be divided almost equally between Wiper and ODM. Lamu would be preserved for ANC with Governor Issa Timamy.The suggestion of power sharing comes as Wiper threatens to bolt from NASA unless its leader Kalonzo Musyoko is named opposition flagbearer in seven days. &ldquo;If it is not Kalonzo, that will be the end of NASA,&rdquo; National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze said on Wednesday. If Wiper leaves, NASA could turn into the narrower Nyanza Super Alliance, he said, adding that he was speaking on behalf of Kalonzo..At the Coast, Wiper has been positioning its candidates across the region, saying it will field aspirants in all seats.This explains why the party rushed to rope in former envoy Chirau Mwakwere to run for Kwale governor. ODM seemed to have won over Mwakwere, only for him to make an about-turn.ODM has termed the region its bastion, although its control has been threatened. There have been consistent attacks from Jubilee, Wiper and ANC.Senator Omar is the only Wiper candidate for the Mombasa governor seat.Nyali MP Hezron Awiti decamped to his new party &mdash; Vibrant Democratic Party &mdash;and will run for Mombasa governor.Awiti said there were plans to limit him to a joint nomination in Mombasa.While announcing his exit, Awiti said he will not back down, whether NASA fields a candidate or not.&ldquo;No one can dictate and rule me. Our party, which is all inclusive, brings together the businesscommunity and the religion,&rdquo; he said.Omar said he is not aware of any mapping plans.&ldquo;Not at all. I don&rsquo;t see any possibility. The only people to respond to this are those sitting in the National Coordinating Committee,&rdquo; he said told the Star on the phone yesterday.The latest opinion polls by Trends and Insights for Africa and Infotrak have placed Omar far behind Governor Hassan Joho, with less than 10 per cent.However, he still leads in the Senate race, although with a slim lead of about 16 per cent. Just as Awiti, Omar has disputed the polls and said they are tools used by their opponents.Neither Senators James Orengo (Siaya) or Muthama nor MP Nyenze could be reached for comment. The three seats at the NCC.Both Awiti and Omar wanted to run for Mombasa governor and there were efforts to get them to form a joint ticket to take on Joho. But neither would agree to be the running mate.