Commercial Banks yesterday warned lending to the private sector, especially the SMEs, is likely to slow down further because of high credit risk brought about by last September's interest controls law. Private sector credit growth fell to 4.3 per cent in December 2016 compared to more than 17 per cent a year earlier largely on rising loan default rates and interest rate cap, the Central Bank of Kenya said in January. Sectors which were driving the growth included trade, real estate and households, according to the regulator. The Kenya Bankers Association, the industry lobby, however said yesterday credit to households, manufacturing, trade and building and construction is likely to fall below four per cent. CEO Habil Olaka said the trend is likely to be witnessed into the second quarter of the year (April-June) as banks continue investing in government securities and assets with higher returns. The banking (Amendment) Act 2016 capped lending rates at four percentage points above the prevailing 10 per cent Central Bank Rate (considered risk-free). Olaka said although the banking industry share the government&rsquo;s goal of affordable interest rates on loans, the amended law has failed to achieve its purpose. He called for its repeal to pave way for industry-wide discussion on achieving low interest rate regime. &ldquo;The Act has forced banks to turn households and traders away if it doesn&rsquo;t make financial sense for them, which is why the industry must re-engage with Treasury, Central Bank and the legislature to address the deficiencies in the Act as it stands,&rdquo; said Olaka. Among those hard hit are the dominant micro and small-sized enterprises seeking capital for growth and development. A KBA-sponsored survey, done New York-headquartered Nielsen, on 1,884 respondents between January and February 2017 showed that 88 per cent of them have not been motivated them to seek loans, Olaka said. The Act, has also affected market capitalisation which dropped to Sh1.8 trillion as of March 20 from Sh2.1 trillion in August 2016. &ldquo;The banks market capitalization dropped by 10.3 per cent to Sh520 billion in the same period. All the key indices have taken a downward trend,&rdquo; KBA director research and policy Jared Osoro said. Olaka added: &ldquo;Credit growth will continue slowing down and its impact on the economic growth will become pretty apparent. We are likely to see banks continue closing branches, laying off staff and some moving to other jurisdictions. So those reactions are bound to continue.&rdquo;