In Maasai folklore, a long time ago there was a terrible giant named Nenauner who was half rock, half human and fully covered in hair. The utterly destructive Nenauner devoured everything on its path. Other than creating the wild animals, Nenauner was also responsible for creating the phenomenon of fear. Engai, knowing that humans could not survive with this dreadful beast, slew it and thereafter, lowered the giant cord from which all cows descended from heaven to nourish OlMaasindat, the first Maasai. The fall of the giant undoubtedly allowed man to thrive and in many ways, the new political dispensation has proved to be a slayer of giants. Among the Maasai, there was a time when the giants ruled over the people by entitlement. Today, they can barely rule by consensus and most have been reduced to rule by negotiation. And it could get worse. The last giant to be badly shaken at the polls was the late William ole Ntimama who fell under the new politics in the era of devolution. He went into the last polls claiming the seat by entitlement failing to realise that the centre had fundamentally shifted and he came down in a thud. Lately, another giant Patrick Ntutu is finding himself in a befuddled position ahead of the next polls. This is a bad place to be for a giant as there can only be one outcome. In moving from Jubilee to Chama Cha Mashinani, at the behest of Emurua Dikirr&rsquo;s Johana Ng&rsquo;eno and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, many are convinced that he has boxed himself into a very difficult position in Narok politics. THE NEXT GOVERNORThere are those who now say Patrick Ntutu has knowingly (or otherwise) handed the governorship back to incumbent Samuel Tunai of the Jubilee Party. What&rsquo;s worse is that the seat he is about to vacate &ndash; Narok West, is in danger of falling into the hands of the Kipsigis aiding the eastward expansion of their erstwhile neighbours. And it is almost certain it will remain a Jubilee seat. Ntutu, a scion of the famous senior chief Lerionka ole Ntutu, is hoping to replicate Governor Tunai&rsquo;s formula by adding the Kipsigis vote to his populous Purko clan of the Maasai and thereby take the governorship. He has named a high school teacher Agnes Busienei his running mate.The first mistake in this opening move is that without a presidential candidate, CCM is neither in Jubilee and despite its dalliance with Nasa, it is not in Nasa. The Kalenjins who form the single largest homogenous voting block in Narok, will be thinking Jubilee and not CCM. Like the other Kalenjins elsewhere, those in Narok are fully aware that with Deputy President William Ruto on the Jubilee card, this is their best stab at taking power. Hate him or love him, he is their own. There is even a proverb that says,"Even if a rat is rotten, it still belongs to the house it belongs to". Even though those in the South seemingly support CCM, deep inside they are Jubilee at the marrow. FLOWER GIRL POSITIONSThe Kipsigis in asserting themselves politically, are fielding more candidates for MCA and MP this time round. As it is almost certain that they will win in Emurua Dikirr, they are now eyeing another constituency &mdash; Narok West. They are seemingly tired of the &lsquo;flower girl&rsquo; positions, or so they say, of Deputy Governor, which both Tunai and Ntutu have offered them. According to a local political analyst, the Kipsigis want to move from being the bride to being the groom. They are defying national Kalenjin leaders from further afield, who have always favoured the Maasai over them. In his day, President Daniel Moi would hear nothing of the political ambitions of the Kipsigis in Narok, and never even allowed them to have even a council seat, including a nominated one with of cause the exception of very few. Similarly, DP Ruto has not limbered up to the Kipsigis political ambitions in Narok because he would not dare annoy the Maasai, who occupy several other counties in the Rift Valley. This attitude has endeared him to a number of Maasai, but has earned a powerful enemy in Ngeno of Emurua Dikirr. The challenge for Ruto would be to keep the Maasai in the same political house with the Kalenjins. NEGOTIATE ARRANGEMENTSThe problem of ethnic balancing is not a new in Kenyan politics, and devolution seems to have taken it to another level. While democracy is primarily about numbers, there is a sense in which negotiation is taking the place of numbers. Narok will be an interesting study in negotiated democracy. It is almost certain that if the Maasai in Narok will vote along sub-ethnic or clan lines, then they will suffer in the hands of migrant communities, who tend to vote cohesively. For seats that have countywide elections (Woman rep, senator and governor), the homogenous Kipsigis vote will pose serious problems for Maa candidates. In expressing his candidacy in CCM, Ntutu is certainly going to rely on his sub-ethnic group of the Purko, which apparently has another candidate Tiampati ole Musuni, whom they have anointed. Ntutu runs the risk of attracting the ire of his clansmen. While he is yet to name his running mate, Musuni&rsquo;s fate is tied to that of Ntutu. They will either sink together, or one will rise but they cannot both rise. Even if Musuni names a Kalenjin running mate, the Kalenjins are likely to vote along party lines and not along the candidates, which could complicate things for both of them as they are not in Jubilee. THE TWO WOMENThere will be two Kipsigis women on the ballot for the position of deputy governor. In Camp Ntutu, they believe Busienei is much better than incumbent Evelyn Aruasa. Busienei was already a woman rep aspirant and had began to prepare for the position. Born in Melelo at the Maasai heartland, Busienei attended local schools before joining Kenyatta University, where she studied to become a teacher. She settled at Ol Mekenyu, Narok South, and after a distinguished teaching career at local schools and raising a family, she decided to take a stab at politics. Her original aim was to challenge Soipan ole Tuya for the Narok woman rep until Ntutu came along and offered her what they believed to be something better. A powerful campaigner and a great orator, Camp Ntutu is hoping to excite the female vote in Narok but more importantly, to bring in the much needed Kipsigis vote to challenge incumbent Tunai. SHAKY POSITIONThe important question Ntutu should ask himself is, why exactly did Ng&rsquo;eno refuse to join his camp as deputy governor? Despite the impassioned speeches pledging total support to his candidacy, Ngeno did not quite bring himself to take the offer of deputy governor. Is he seeing what Ntutu is not seeing? At Camp Tunai, there is little change from the arrangement that took them to power in 2013. Tunai is retaining his deputy, the astute and powerful Aruasa who, though still unmarried &mdash; something that Camp Ntutu is bringing out against her &mdash; is never-the-less a powerful campaigner in her own right. Her amiable persona and pleasant mien has endeared her to voters across the political, ethnic and gender divide. Aruasa&rsquo;s father is a businessman in Narok. She was a powerful candidate in 2007 and coming from Narok West, she will be providing the regional balance on the Tunai ticket.CAMP MUSUNIThe third gubernatorial team is led by Tiampati ole Musuni in NASA. Camp Musuni is taking things in its own stride. They have settled for the opposition alliance, and will be banking on the popularity of the NASA affiliate party &mdash; ODM &mdash; among the Maasai. Camp Musuni is reaching out Kiptuiya Kosonei, an ODM aspirant for Lang&rsquo;ata MP. In reaching out to Kiptuiya, a Kipsigis diehard ODM politician, they are hoping to excite the Kipsigis vote in Narok in favour of Camp Musuni. Being young, they are hoping that he would also bring in the youth vote. Kiptuiya comes from a powerful political family. His father Ambassador John Koech was the longest serving Kipsigis MP (of nearby Chepalungu) and was Cabinet minister in both the Moi and Kibaki administrations. They also have deep family roots in Narok, where they have maintained powerful connections. If brought to the ticket, Kosonei will be leveraging on Jubilee&rsquo;s slow or stalled projects in Narok, which also lacks a national government project. Observing Camp Musuni, one has the feeling that they are running a no-pretence campaign with few behind-the-scenes or under-the-table arrangements.CLAN ARITHMETICWhile indeed the Kipsigis represent the single largest united vote block, the Purko are the single largest Maasai bloc. In fielding two giant Purko candidates &mdash; Ntutu and Musuni &mdash; they are splitting the vote that could almost immediately pose a threat to both camps. This is why they have both made overtures to the Kipsigis vote. While the Kipsigis dalliance with CCM has sometimes posed a head-ache for Jubilee, they are never-the-less quite strongly pro-Jubilee and this is one up for Tunai against the two other camps. While accepting a direct nomination to Rutto&rsquo;s CCM looks good for now, it actually betrays Ntutu as being unable to take a fair contest in Jubilee &mdash; so much for a Maasai moran. The presence of the massive Kipsigis voting block in Narok is one of the issues that have bothered the Narok Maasai for a while. By joining their party, he has played into the hands of his critics. If the Purko don&rsquo;t make government, then they will have themselves to blame but, most of their fingers will be on Ntutu.BATTLEGROUND CONSTUTUENCIESNarok has attracted a long list of aspirants in its six constituencies. The battleground constituencies will be mainly in the West as opposed to the East, which is more homogeneously Maasai. The West will see numerous non-Maa candidates presenting themselves to challenge the Maasai, particularly in the county seats. It will be a strong contest between Jubilee and NASA candidates in these parts. The Kipsigis are likely to coalesce around Jubilee while NASA will attract the Maasai. The middle-ground CCM will also have its say but the proverbial &lsquo;farasi wawili&rsquo; (two horse race) will most likely play out. The two horses could either be Maasai vs Kipsigis or Jubilee vs NASA. NAROK WESTThe Maasai candidates in Jubilee for the Narok West seat include Stanley ole Mpoe formerly the Narok West subcounty administrator and Willy ole Loigero, formerly the Narok chief officer. They will be challenged by planning executive Peter Koros. CCM candidate Peter Nabana will also face Gabriel ole Tongoyo of ODM. The prominent Jubilee candidate on the Kipsigis side is Peter Cheborgei, a former meteorologist who will be battling for the ticket with former Narok ECD director Paul Chesimet. Cheborge lost narrowly to Ntutu in the last election, possibly because his stood in Kanu when URP was trending. He is considered the current frontrunner. If successful in Jubilee primaries, then he will be hoping the Maasai will field more candidates and the Kipsigis fewer. Other known aspirants include Edwin arap Sang, who is vying on a Kanu ticket and retired agriculturalist Johana arap Bore on Jubilee. EMURUA DIKIRRIn Ng&rsquo;eno&rsquo;s Emurua Dikirr, he will be up against a strong Maasai candidate John Saitoti, formerly of Postal Corporation of Kenya. Among the Kipsigis, there will be David Keter, who is going for the Jubilee ticket shunned by Ng&rsquo;eno, who has shown strong intention of joining CCM. Like any good politician who disdains competition, he will be getting a direct nomination. Others going for the Jubilee ticket include Cherotich Koiyan, Paul Tonui, and Weldon Mutai. NASA has a Kalenjin candidate in Samuel Koech. There will be more names from both sides and others here could drop out.JUBILEE'S FORTUNEThe interesting thing about Narok is that there are strong indications the people are likely to vote against (not along) tribal lines. This is why Jubilee will be smiling as it has a strong following across the tribal divide. Besides, Maasai here don&rsquo;t seem exactly beholden to NASA and with the equally significant Kikuyu (Jubilee) vote, the county seems to be Jubilee&rsquo;s to lose.