The Capital Markets Authority has renewed calls for more women representation on management boards of listed companies in line with the constitutional two-thirds gender principle. Chief executive Paul Muthaura yesterday said companies should consider incorporating women in their boards, ruling out affirmative action to enforce the rule. &ldquo;Decision-making should be driven across gender, skills and age. Businesses with diversity, with women on their boards have proved to be more sustainable, (have) better performance and good risk management. They deliver long shareholder gains,&rdquo; Muthaura said. He was speaking in Nairobi yesterday when the Nairobi Securities Exchange joined 43 Stock Exchanges globally to &lsquo;Ring the Bell for Gender Equality&rsquo; in commemoration of the International Women&rsquo;s Day today. The capital markets regulator and intermediaries said they will observe the day by raising awareness on the importance of gender equality to the capital markets. &ldquo;Currently at the Exchange, 45 per cent of our total workforce are women, 29 per cent of whom are in senior management. We are continuously working on improving these numbers,&rdquo; NSE vice chairman Bob Karina said, adding that self-listing firms are rallying publicly traded ones to meet the gender rule by 2020. Women representation on boards is about 18.5 per cent in Kenya, according to a past study by the World Bank. This is despite Kenya being among countries pushing for the implementation of the gender rule on corporate boards. Rwanda tops in political appointments at 64 per cent. According to the global lender, women do not receive enough support to take up top leadership positions &ldquo;to a level that is acceptable&rdquo;, and have secured 15 per cent of the jobs, compared to men who take the lion share of 85 per cent. Muthaura said most firms recycle women who have served on various boards, saying more opportunities need to be created to accommodate fresh blood. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers chairperson Flora Mutahi said women are still looked down upon in leadership. &ldquo;We need to work to show what women can do. Women who are sitting on boards should create a position for a woman and motivate others to ensure we have at least 30 per cent representation,&rdquo; Mutahi said. &ldquo;We should hold top management accountable.&rdquo; Bob Karina said as a signatory to the UN Women Empowerment Principles, the NSE has committed to promote the first principle which seeks to establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. &ldquo;We are working on integrating the Women&rsquo;s Empowerment Principles into our core business operations and value chain to ensure a comprehensive approach to achieving gender equality,&rdquo; he said. The CMA said it is implementing a raft of measures to improve management in the capital markets. This includes implementation of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the public, 2016. The code, which came into force on March 4, 2017, has established a scorecard which among others, requires all companies to publish their annual results for monetary evaluation. It also provides for annual corporate governance audits. The regulator is also implementing a 10-year Capital Market Master Plan, a blueprint that recognizes sound corporate governance, reliable and transparent financial reporting and effective frameworks to tackle money laundering. The event was supported by a global partnership between the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, UN Global Compact, IFC, UN women, women in ETFs and the World Federation of Stock Exchanges.