Business leaders have urged the National Treasury CS Henry Rotich to adopt a predictable taxation ahead of the 2017-18 Budget Statement on Thursday next week. This, a forum bring together stakeholders from different sectors heard, will help the private sector make sustainable plans for steady growth. Speakers petitioned policy-makers to consider international best practices in formulating fiscal policies and taxation measures to support sustainable long-term growth and encourage increased foreign direct investments. Speakers at a Tax Predictability public forum hosted at the Strathmore Business School on Monday appealed to the Treasury to fast-track efforts geared at stabilising the local tax regime. Kenya Association of Manufacturers chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga regretted that local manufacturers are fast losing their competitive edge to other regional firms due to the unpredictable nature of the local tax regime. She noted that taxation policies need to be aligned to long-term national development plans such as Vision 2030 in order to foster national growth. “The ongoing culture of tax regimes that are far removed from the national development agenda is regrettable. Taxation should be predictable and broad-based, enabling economic agents to plan accordingly, therefore securing a strong future of both our businesses and the economy at large,” said Wakiaga. Phillip Muema, a tax expert with Nexus Business Advisory, said tax predictability is critical for business growth as it provides a solid base for long term business planning. He added that such efforts can potentially accelerate tax collections by 30 per cent through facilitation of tax administration procedures by boosting compliance. “A sound tax system ensures that the government is able to raise revenue internally. That is why a robust tax system should be informed by progressive tax reforms necessary to ensure that the business community, farmers among other economic actors continue to enjoy an enabling environment to flourish,” Muema said. Strathmore University don, James McFie, stressed that integrity in the management of public funds is critical in order to relieve the unnecessary burden on taxpayers. “Unpredictable tax regimes founded on short-term plans end up providing a fertile breeding ground for trade in contraband among other economic ills,” said McFie. The global tax agenda is increasingly moving towards an environment that facilitates a conducive, coherent and predictable tax regime.