A judge has declined to stop the Capital Markets Authority from investigating top audit firm Ernst &amp; Young over claims it violated financial reporting rules at Uchumi Supermarkets.Judge John Mativo yesterday declined to grant orders in favour of the audit firm, saying they moved to court too soon to stop the process.Uchumi former CEO Jonathan Ciano, former chairman Khadija Mire, former finance manager Chadwick Okumu and two non-executive directive directors were last November banished from listed companies for between a year and five years. They also faced financial penalties, but they have challenged the CMA's verdict in court in a lawsuit yet to be determined.EY was spared pending the determination of the case it had filed in court against the probe. The CMA had issued notice to show cause to the audit firm asking it to respond to raft of allegations of misconduct. Following allegations of mismanagement of Sh895 million from rights issue, the regulator made an inquiry and involved the audit firm as the supermarkets external auditor for 2010-14 period. CMA claims its initial findings showed possible misstatements in audited financial statements and that&rsquo;s why it sent notice to show cause to the audit firm.Aggrieved by the CMA&rsquo;s action, the audit firm moved to court through lawyer Ochieng Oduol claiming violation of its fundamental rights.The audit firm termed the decision by CMA as unreasonable and unfair. It accused the authority of acting on a report by KPMG without facts, without giving it a fair opportunity to respond. The audit firm in its suit papers says it received a call from CMA on May 19, 2016, asking for a meeting to clarify issues allegedly arising out of audits undertaken in relation to Uchumi. The meeting was agreed to and scheduled for May 26, and the audit firm requested that it be supplied with copy of report by KPMG. They were only given excerpts and not full report. In an affidavit, Gitahi Gichahi who is the executive officer of the audit firm said the undertakings of the CMA being an investigator, prosecutor, judge and hangman are in clear violation of the principles of a fair hearing. He said they were not privy to the presentation of the KPMG report and were not involved. In his decision, Justice Mativo said the audit firm did not prove any infringement of any fundamental rights or threats to warrant court&rsquo;s intervention. The CMA&rsquo;s action, the court said, was authorised by relevant statute. &ldquo;Administrative bodies are created for a variety of reasons and to respond to a variety of needs. In some cases, the legislature may decide that in order to achieve the ends of the statute, it is necessary to allow for an overlap in functions that would, in normal judicial proceedings, have to be kept separate,&rdquo; said the judge. The judge noted that CMA in performance of its functions is required to observe and accord persons under investigations fair process and adhere to principles of natural justice which include providing any evidence to person under investigations in advance.