CAMPAIGNERS and strategists for Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony (pictured) are an unhappy lot. Reason? One of them is said to be behind a well-oiled propaganda machine deployed by one of his competitors for the Jubilee ticket. The man, who is now referred to as a mole, is said to be behind the printing of T-shirts and reflectors with images of Chepkwony indicating that he will be defending his seat on a Kanu ticket. As of yesterday, Team Chepkwony was still busy firefighting the propaganda. They want Chepkwony to order investigations and the man fired forthwith from the campaign team. TWO NASA-allied legislators were yesterday overheard at Parliament Buildings celebrating the predicament Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho finds himself in over his academic papers. The two vocal MPs, one from Nyanza and the other from the Coast region, said Joho had started misusing his newfound nickname &ldquo;Sultan&rdquo; and had become overbearing. They said Governor 001 was likely to use his closeness with ODM leader Raila Odinga to come up with his own line-up at the August election.A senior manager at a leading telecommunications firm is said to use her charm to run a network of IT geeks who illegally access and give her the company&rsquo;s internal communications, even those above her pay grade. The beauty then passes on the information to a prominent businessman who has a vendetta with the blue chip firm. The material includes confidential emails among senior staff. Sources in the know say now that she and her network have been identified, it is only a matter of time before they are ferreted out and shown the door.ATTEMPTS by a sitting MP from Rift Valley to visit his city mpango wa kando, whom he abandoned soon after the 2013 election, ended up in a physical fight. The first-term MP, according to our little bird, is said to have arrived at the Eastlands home on Saturday on a mission to ask the one- time lover for campaign money, but hardly had he entered the compound than he was repulsed by the lady, who works for a local commercial bank. The legislator is said to have pleaded to the extent of going on down on bended knee to have the lady listen to his case. She was forced to use an iron rod to hit the man on his back.