With the attention around the world on the international fixtures this week, Kenya Premier League will only feature two matches. Sofapaka and Muhoroni Youth are scheduled to play the make up game after missing out on the first weekend. The two were reinstated back to the Kenya’s top tier after FKF had relegated the two teams for non compliance of Caf Club Licensing rules but the decision was overturned by the Sports Disputes Tribunal. 2009 champions Sofapaka will face Western Stima in a tricky duel on Sunday at Moi Stadium, Kisumu while Muhorni face Kakamega Homeboyz at Mumias Complex same day. Western Stima head coach Stanley Omino expects a tough encounter against Sofapaka. The two teams are set to play catch-up match this weekend after missing out the opening weekend due to the uncertainty that surrounded Batoto Ba Mungu. Omino is, however, hopeful that his team will emerge victorious at the end of the game. “This is going to be a very entertaining match since both sides are known for their attacking dfootball. It is going to be an open match for sure and It is not going to be easy for us. We definitely want to give our best and grab maximum points. Sofapaka lost last weekend and will be keen to go home with maximum points. Omino observed playing at home will give them a slight edge over their opponents. “Playing at home will be an advantage for us and it’s imperative that this season we win all our home matches, ” Omino told Goal.com. Stima will be seeking to build on their sixth place finish last season, where they collected 44 points and Omino believes they will finish even higher this season. “We have good squad this season and we can go higher than last season. Batoto Ba Mungu lost by a solitary goal last weekend against Sony Sugar in their opening match. Coach John Barasa believe they can bounce back from the loss and get a positive result. Muhoroni will be seeking to extend their good run against Kakamega Homeboyz after a 1-0 win against Kariobangi Sharks last weekend. But considering Kakamega will be playing before home fans, it is not going to be easy for the sugar millers . This time, last year Muhoroni Youth were basking in the glory of being seen as title dark horses as they had started the league in rip roaring action. Twelve months later, they have started the league in a similar fashion but it remains to be seen how far they can go.