At least five million Kenyans living in major urban centres are directly exposed to toxic emissions, mainly from motor vehicles, industries and kerosene, the Ministry of Environment has said. Of these, 14,000 die annually from pollution-related illnesses. Air pollution causes death through illnesses including respiratory ailments, heart diseases, brain damage and cancers.&ldquo;In several cities around the world, people have to wear breathing masks to protect themselves from pollution. Masks have become part of their wardrobes. We do not want this country to go down that road. We want to make sure every breath we take matters,&rdquo; Environment PS Charles Sunkuli said.He spoke at the workshop on air quality management and coordination in Naivasha last Friday.Participants were drawn from government entities, development partners, the private sector, research institutions and NGOs.Sunkuli said the ministry will form an interministerial task force to work on procedures for emission testing for land, air, and sea transport. Addressing sea pollutionThe PS said the International Maritime Organisation is looking into ways to address pollution in sea vessels. He said the ministry will promote cost-effective ventures to address air pollution. Sunkuli said the International Civil Aviation Organisation is working to reduce emissions in the aircraft industry.He said the Environment ministry will complement the organisation&rsquo;s efforts by drafting domestic regulations. &ldquo;Our goal is to ensure compliance with the current legislation on sources of pollution in industries and traffic, as well as strengthen effective enforcement,&rdquo; Sunkuli said. He added, &ldquo;This will be done by developing accurate emission inventories and the ministry will also encourage technologies and measures to further reduce the exposure of citizens and ecosystems to air pollution.&rdquo; The PS said the government is committed to reducing air pollution levels in the country.Sunkuli said a National Air Quality Management and Coordination Strategy will soon be developed.