On February 13, a report on Lapsset’s environmental and economic impact was published, and for the first time Kenyans have a clearer picture of what this mega project will do for Lamu’s economy. (This report is available on Nema’s website) The report by the Lapsset Development Authority, which I urge all Kenyans to read, has debunked myths and misconceptions on infrastructure spending. It clearly shows the dividends such projects are expected to yield. These benefits will be felt across various counties. Natural justice demands that we first have a look at Lamu county, where the project begins. Lamu primarily depends on fishing, and this is where Lapsset will have the biggest impact. Fishing accounts for three out of four jobs, but the industry is yet to scale up and diversify into value addition, which would create more skilled jobs and increase earnings. For lack of infrastructure, many a fisherman relies on the activity for subsistence living, not as a source of gainful employment. However, this is set to change with the proposed fishing port, which will be part of the larger Lamu Port. Building a fishing port and creating capacity for local fishermen will enable them to venture into the deep sea to exploit the rich Exclusive Economic Zone, whose waters are home to over 150 varieties of fish. This rich catch would then be taken to the fishing port for value addition. Fish fillets, fish sticks, breaded shrimp, canned tuna, fish oil and other derivatives such as fish meal would all be processed there for export or to be sold locally. To support such an industry there would be need for warehousing, distribution channels, packing and other services, which will employ locals and other Kenyans. In the absence of a fishing port, the rich waters have been exploited by international fishers, denying Lamu and Kenya much-needed income. Overall, the Lamu Port, which the ministry has classified as a priority project, will have 23 deep-sea berths. Upon completion of the first three berths, KPA will initially operate them before concessioning them to a private operator. The rest will be built and operated by the private sector. Similar arrangements for roads, rail, pipeline and other projects are being drafted and explored. Additionally, construction of the Sh10 billion Lamu-Witu-Garsen road is on schedule. The detail design for the Lamu-Garissa-Isiolo road has been completed, and the ground-breaking is set to take place soon. The Development Bank of Southern Africa is in talks to fund construction of this vital road. The Lapsset report cites challenges such as adequate and timely compensation for affected landowners as well as threats to livelihoods in instances of displacement. The ministry has set aside Sh1 billion to compensate affected residents, including acquisition of 200 boats, which will be distributed to fishermen. Finally, I urge Kenyans to avoid simply discrediting this important project as has become the norm for some commentators and pundits. A more constructive and sober approach would be looking for solutions. It is not by accident but by design that the architects of Vision 2030, Kenya’s blueprint to uplift the country into prosperity, undertook the Lamu Port-South-Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport corridor project. This is our chance as Kenyans to gift future generations with a quality of life better than we have. I encourage all of us to support the government in this initiative. The writer is the Principal Secretary, State Department of Transport, Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development. 