Betty Wairimu is short, not an inch above 4 feet. Her slim body is covered in a tight, light blue jeans and a fitting red T-shirt. A silver chain with a cross peddle hangs loosely on her neck. She has a round, innocent face. Her white, soft eyes never swerved all through the interview.Betty, a recovering heroine, cocaine and bhang addict, was until September last year a drug trafficker. She had her first bhang puff while in class seven, and had started smoking cigarettes while in class five.&ldquo;Since then, I never stopped.&rdquo; She was suspended from secondary school while in form 2 for selling bhang to other students. She was introduced to heroine soon after dropping out.ABORTION TRAUMAHer addiction got worse when she got pregnant and her mother asked her to abort. &ldquo;She said she was too young to be called a grandmother,&rdquo; remembers Betty. Her mother took her to hospital, where she was given tablets and asked to go home since the process would take some days.&ldquo;On the third day, I had labour pains and I gave &lsquo;birth&rsquo; to a dead baby boy, who my mum wrapped in a green paper bag and threw away,&rdquo; she remembers. Aborting a six-month-old pregnancy got the better of Betty and all she wanted was to remain high. &ldquo;My instincts told me I had killed and I became disturbed. The only thing that took away my sorrows was heroine. I became too attached to the drug. I could not live without it.&rdquo;Her addiction got her mother worried and she decided to set her up with the police. She was arrested, taken to court and was jailed for three months. &ldquo;My mum was contacted for consultation to get probation, which she declined,&rdquo; remembers Betty. This made her grudge towards her mother worse. After she was released from jail, Betty started sniffing cocaine. She had run away from home after stealing Sh5,000 from her mother and she was staying in the streets. &ldquo;My addiction became expensive. I would buy a gramme of cocaine for Sh5,000 and a gramme of heroine for Sh2,500.&rdquo;MEETING WITH KINGPINSShe had to get ways to sustain her drug supply. In the dens, Betty was approached by the drug kingpins and they asked her if she could be interested in drug trafficking. &ldquo;They said my small body was perfect since no one would suspect me.&rdquo; She took the job. The description was to carry the drugs from Malindi to Mombasa.To beat police in their game, Betty wore uniform, making her small body even smaller. She would carry a backpack with the drugs in between books. She would be paid handsomely. Her about-turn came when one day a colleague they were trafficking with was arrested. &ldquo;We were two but we travelled in different buses. One day my colleague was arrested and is currently serving a 17-year-jail term. I decided to stop the business.&rdquo;Her last criminal incident was when she stole a bag containing Sh150,000 and a camera belonging to a foreigner at a beach in Malindi. &ldquo;After that I decided to run away and I came to Nairobi.&rdquo;It&rsquo;s here that she met reformed drug addict Pastor Joseph Kabochi, a teacher at Teen Challenge rehab centre, who turned her life around after convincing her to join a rehab programme. &ldquo;I was reluctant at first but he really convinced me,&rdquo; Betty says.Before she was hooked, Betty ran away from the centre four times and Kabochi kept following her. &ldquo;She had the will to change but withdrawals took the better of her. I never lost hope in her,&rdquo; Kabochi said.Betty is three months into the programme and she hopes to be a peer counsellor after she finishes.