Mandera hit the headlines in August last year when the powerful Garre Council of Elders, consisting of 21 members led by chairman Haji Ali Noor, endorsed certain leaders to vie for elective seats in the county. This was described as &lsquo;negotiated democracy&rsquo;.The announcement, dubbed the Banisa Declaration &mdash; since it was done in Banisa town &mdash; literally sealed the political careers of elected leaders in the county. This ranged from the governor, the senator, the woman rep to the MCAs, all of whom were told not to seek reelection. All the elected leaders initially accepted the elders&rsquo; verdict apart from Governor Ali Roba, who vehemently opposed the decision.THE ELDERS&rsquo; LINEUPThe elders&rsquo; lineup, which was unveiled in a colourful ceremony included Hassan Noor, a former long-serving provincial administrator from the Bana subclan, who was picked to vie for governor.Haji said the essence of sharing the elective positions was to foster unity among the clans and the subclans in the county.Hassan Osman from the Kalwina community was endorsed to stand for senator and replace incumbent Billow Kerrow, who accepted the elders&rsquo; verdict. Osman is a UDF nominated MP.Aden Haji and Kullow Maalim were picked to run for Takaba and Banisa constituencies respectively, while Mohamed Ibrahim was selected to contest in Mandera North and Abdikadir Aden for Mandera South.All the 18 MCA positions in the county were also filled with new aspirants.MPs&rsquo; REBELLIONAt the moment, three elected MPs have vowed to seek reelection.They are Issack Shaban (Lafey), Mohamed Abdow (Banisa) and Mohamed Muhmud (Mandera West), who will run for Senate.Abdiaziz Farah of Mandera East has stepped down in favour of his kinsman, Adan Huka of Mandera South has joined the elders while Adan Mohamed Noor of Mandera North has retired from politics. On January 18, Roba led Farah, Banissa MP Haji Abdi, Shabaan, Mohamed Noor (Mandera North), Mohamed Huka (Mandera South), and Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera West) in rubbishing the elders&rsquo; choice, and their supporters have urged them to defy the council&rsquo;s imposition of leaders. They vowed to defend their seats.Roba accused the elders of imposing leaders on the people, and urged the electorate to reject the elders&rsquo; verdict and, instead, vote for the leaders of their choice.The battle that has now pitted Kerrow against Roba, who were close friends, went a notch higher on December 18 last year, when leaders from the two camps held parallel rallies in Mandera town, a few metres from each other, trying to outdo each other. In an earlier interview, Roba hailed devolution, describing it as the best thing that has ever happened to the people of Mandera, who he said had been marginalised by successive governments for decades.He said his administration has made huge strides in agriculture, health, water, land, and education. This, he said, despite the insecurity problem. The county borders Somalia and Ethiopia.Kerrow on the hand accuses Roba of mismanaging public resources at the expense of the suffering residents. He says the majority of the projects the county claims to have initiated are nonexistent.Hassan, thanking the elders for entrusting him with the mantle to vie for governor, promised to use his experience in public administration to deal with runaway insecurity in the area.He said as an administrator, his experience in managing public resources puts him far ahead of his competitors.&ldquo;As the Rift Valley provincial commissioner, I was entrusted with financial and other resources for many years. With the experience I have, I will prudently utilise cash allocated to the county, to address insecurity, among other issues affecting our people,&rdquo; he said.Hassan gave the examples of Pokot,Turkana and Baringo as some of the areas he helped fix insecurity.KERROW vs ROBA STANDOFFThe latest standoff between Roba and Kerrow has been caused by their differences about &lsquo;negotiated democracy&rsquo;.Kerrow has stood by the elders&rsquo; declaration and wants direct Jubilee nomination tickets as all the leaders endorsed by the council are against nominations because &ldquo;they fear Governor Roba would influence the outcome of the Jubilee primaries&rdquo;.In a Facebook post on Monday, Kerrow said Mandera residents &ldquo;would not entertain that option at all&rdquo;. &ldquo;Elders believe Deputy President William Ruto, reportedly a close ally of Governor Roba, will influence the outcome of the Jubilee primaries. They have already nominated candidates and having party primaries again with leaders they rejected would undermine their mandate,&rdquo; he said in the post.Speaking separately, Maendeleo ya Wanawake Mandera branch chairperson Ubaah Gedi trashed the negotiated democracy arrangement, saying the elders were only doing so to serve their selfish interest.Gedi, who has declared her interest in the woman rep seat, said women have never been involved in any decision-making process to share the seats.&ldquo;Nobody represented us on the negotiation table. So who are they negotiating for if the end result was to marginalise women? They should just call it favouritism democracy,&rdquo; she said.The council has endorsed Amina Gedow for the woman rep position.The county is inhabited by three major tribes &mdash; the Garres, the Murulle and the Degodia. Other tribes that have substantial influence are the Marrehan, the Shekhal, the Shermoga and the Gabaweyn.The Murulle clan has already distributed the political seats among the four subclans after months of negotiations. The Yabarseyn subclan has been given the Lafey MP seat as well as the Warankara, the Arabia and the Alangu ward seats.The Sharmake subclan has been given the Mandera East parliamentary seat. They have also been given the township and Lafey ward seats. The Kulow subclan has on the other hand been alloted the deputy governor seat and the Sala and Libihiya ward seats.The Nacabsor subclan has been given the Fino ward seat. Out of the six constituencies, the Garre have four MPs &mdash; Banisa, Mandera South, Mandera West and Mandera North. Mandera East and Lafey constituencies are represented by the Murule, courtesy of the negotiated democracy of 2013.The Garres have two major subclans &mdash; the Quranyoa and the Tuff. Kerrow comes from the former while Roba hails from the latter. In 2013, elders from the Garre clan endorsed 26 candidates, who were all elected. This is despite stiff competition from other aspirants.