Ever since the government banned night fishing in Lamu in 2010 after the kidnappings of foreign tourists, the number of fish caught has declined yearly, hurting residents’ incomes. When al Shabaab staged attacks in 2014, restrictions were tightened, further crippling fishing activities. Those affected are fishermen who have no capacity to go to the deep sea. Their only hope was to fish at night, which is now regarded as illegal. Even though statistics indicate that fish value has increased, residents say the scenario could be better if fishermen were allowed to fish at night. Traditionally fishermen believe that many fish are caught at night, as opposed to daytime, due to the existence of sunlight. Areas worst hit by the fishing ban include Faza, Kiiwayu, Kiunga, Mkokoni and other islands in Lamu East. A recent tour of Lamu East revealed the challenges fishermen are going through following the night fishing ban. Among those still suffering to date are fishermen near the Kenya-Somali border and others from adjacent areas, who rely on the ocean for survival. Terrifying tales Tales from fishermen caught fishing at night are terrifying, as they claim to have been subjected to torture by the security forces. At Ishakani village, Kiunga ward, fishermen have gradually sunk into poverty. Since they are just at the border point, their main fishing ground now does not have fish. The village, which was a major fishing harbour, was abandoned for over 20 years after Shiftas invaded the area and killed people. All the houses were burnt and residents, most of whom depend on fishing, fled for safety. Journalists toured the area on January 29 and came face to face with the problems of the fishermen. What was traditionally a fishing hub has degenerated into more of a slum that harbours larger families. The landing site, which used to be a key economic hub for fishermen, has collapsed. Fisherman Ahmed Islam said they returned to the village five years ago, after a Good Samaritan from Malindi with roots in Ishakani volunteered to build houses for them. Resident Ahmed Islam told journalists life has become tough since the insecurity cases arose. “Security here was poor. There were only seven police officers and they were all killed by the Shiftas, forcing us to flee for safety,” he said. Since they returned to the village, they have nowhere to store the little fish they catch. Security personnel have a base at their village and have brought comfort to their lives but poverty levels are high. “The order for us to go fishing from six o’clock in the morning to six o’clock in the evening has hurt us,” he says. He urged the government to allow fishermen to fish at night. Normally, he said, one who goes fishing during the day and gets 200kg of fish can get 800kg of fish at night. County interventions Lamu Governor Issa Timamy launched a fish landing site project, which is under construction at Ishakani. At Kiunga, he initiated a cold storage project to help fishermen preserve fish. Similar projects have been initiated in Kiiwayu and Faza Mkokoni, among other areas. “We have launched a fish landing site to enable vehicles from Mombasa to collect fish. Our aim is to collect fish at one central place and sell it. Previously there was one but it collapsed,” he said. As Lamu has not been spared by the drought ravaging many parts of the country, fishermen have no other means of getting money. “I urge the President to lift the ban on night fishing. It’s hurting fishermen. Currently there is drought, fisherman cannot get money, they are suffering. Good fishing is done at night. Normally, fish hide deep in the water during the day,” he said. At Kiiwayu, the governor in partnership with Alkheir Foundation, launched the solar freezers project and gave out engines of fishing vessels. Fewer fish, more value Reports from the county government indicate that the value of fish caught in Lamu county has risen for the past five years from Sh169 million in 2010 to Sh421 million in 2015. This is despite the fact that the number of fish landings has been dropping constantly in the same period from 2,390 metric tonnes in 2010 to 2,242 metric tons in 2015. Statistics of fish landings and their value released by the Fisheries department in Lamu county indicate that in 2012, Lamu recorded the lowest amount of fish in 2012, which is attributed to the terror attacks experienced in that year. Records show that in that year, fishermen caught only 2,007 metric tonnes, but their value went up to Sh236 million. Fisheries chief officer Abdalla Ahmed said: “The data is a clear indication that there is a lot of fish in Lamu. As a department we shall utilise it to improve the living standards of people,’’ he said. Fishing competition Three years ago the county came up with an annual fishing competition to boost the fishermen’s morale. This year the competitors, comprising 45 boats, managed to catch over 1.5 tonnes in just half a day. The chief officer said the ocean was a big resource and the fishing sector could be depended on. “Youths in Lamu should venture into the fishing industry. Old men are aged and shall retire soon,’’ he said. Former Lamu County Council chairman Famau Mohamed says the economy of Kiunga has deteriorated because of insecurity. He says when Uhuru visited Faza Island in Lamu East last year, the issue was raised but nothing has happened ever since. To the residents who depend on fishing, their only prayer is to have the ban on night fishing lifted, as it is the only way their economy will improve.