A cemetery is supposed to be the final resting place for the deceased in urban areas. However, many bodies in major towns are no longer at ease. After tens of thousands of burials, space is running out and desperate measures are being taken to accommodate fresh burials. This week, the Star will run a three-part series on the state of cemeteries in the country, starting with the Langata Cemetery, which was declared full more than 20 years ago but is still in use. Nothing appears odd while driving on Lang&rsquo;ata Road as we head to the cemetery that hosts the city&rsquo;s dead.Lots of grave markers and trees stand on the lower side of the cemetery. Cows and goats graze on the paths in between the graves. This is the picture motorists on Lang&rsquo;ata Road have &mdash; nothing extraordinary to expect in a graveyard, apart from the grazing cows.But a walk deeper into the cemetery reveals a totally different image. It&rsquo;s Friday, one of the busiest days at the cemetery.&ldquo;From Tuesday through Friday, we host between 15 to 20 burials a day,&rdquo; says Nderitu Maina, who is in charge of the cemetery.Different groups stand next to each other, most of them stepping on fresh graves while conducting services for their departed family members and friends.Coffins draped in white with flowers on top wait to be lowered as mourners, most of them dressed in black, sing in grief. The confusion gets worse as preachers take over, each trying to outdo the other.While preachers compete for attention, a grave digger goes on with his business, showering dust onto the grieving mourners already fighting the brutal noontime heat. He is under instruction not to go beyond three feet deep. &ldquo;On this side we dig 30 inches deep,&rdquo; he said.Traditionally, most Kenyans transport their dead back to their village, the so-called ancestral home, to perform ritual and religious burial rights. However, broken families, poverty and expenses have forced Nairobi dwellers to bury their dead in cemeteries.SHALLOW GRAVESTens of thousands of bodies have been buried in Lang&rsquo;ata Cemetery. Exact numbers are impossible to determine, given the lack of records.Calvins Oteng, a mourner who was burying his friend, said it was his second time attending a burial at Lang&rsquo;ata and both graves had been shallow.&ldquo;It is usually easy to get a permit but when you look at the grave where you are burying your relative, it breaks your heart,&rdquo; he says.This is the upper side of the cemetery, which many may not know about. It is the bloated part of the 120-acre graveyard that takes up a huge number of Nairobi&rsquo;s dead.Joyce Wanja buried her mother in this section in January last year, but when she came back to check on the grave two months later, she could not find it. &ldquo;I went back to the place we buried mum in March but her grave was not there. Not even the cross,&rdquo; she said.Joyce, who was fighting back tears, said it was painful to accept the situation after a cemetery official told her &lsquo;temporary&rsquo; graves are not meant to be visited. &ldquo;The fact that I will never see my mum&rsquo;s grave again has never sunk in,&rdquo; she said.Nderitu, who has been in charge of the cemetery since 2008, said that when one pays for a temporary grave permit, they only conduct a ceremonial burial. &ldquo;This is where you &lsquo;bury and go&rsquo;,&rdquo; he said.Joyce cited family differences as the reason that forced her and her siblings to bury her mother at the cemetery. &ldquo;My mum was a single mum and her uncles refused to give us space to bury her,&rdquo; she said, adding that they had not bought land anywhere for lack of finances.Joyce is worried that the cemetery could be exhuming bodies after burial and putting them in one deep grave to create space for others.However, Nderitu denied the allegation, saying it is too much work for them to indulge in. &ldquo;We have never and we don&rsquo;t plan to tamper with bodies. All we do is create space for others,&rdquo; he said.Lang&rsquo;ata Cemetery first opened in 1958. The cemetery, which was meant to accommodate 50,000 bodies, was declared full more than 20 years ago.Since then, the cemetery has been taking up bodies and &lsquo;creating&rsquo; space for them. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a headache but we are not required to turn anyone away,&rdquo; Nderitu said.John Musau was depressed when he saw the grave he was supposed to bury his son in two years ago. &ldquo;My God, it was too shallow, you wouldn&rsquo;t have needed a jembe to dig it out,&rdquo; he said. Musau said it would have been too expensive to take home his one-month-old baby and preferred the cemetery. He has never gone back to check if the grave is still there.Nairobi Health executive Bernard Muia says the cemetery is full to capacity and they have been forced to use areas that were not meant to be tombs in the cemetery. &ldquo;As we create these spaces, we are also seriously working to get an alternative to bury our dead,&rdquo; he said.He urged Kenyans to embrace cremation. &ldquo;Cremation is slowly gaining popularity and I would encourage Kenyans to think in those lines since land will continue being scarce.&rdquo;Nderitu, who occasionally takes breaks to attend to customers requesting for space, says matters of the grave are very sensitive. He agrees that one grave can take up to three bodies while buried in layers. &ldquo;No one would want their relatives buried on top of a stranger, but we have had to do it. Sometimes we are left with no option,&rdquo; he said hesitantly.The cemetery sometimes digs deeper than the recommended six feet and buries in layers of three in each grave. He added that they have had to bury even on road reserves in the cemetery.To get a temporary graveyard permit, one is required to part with Sh7,000 for an adult, Sh4,000 for a child and Sh2,000 for an infant.While the poor grapple for spaces, with one grave taking up to three bodies and sometimes more, some rich individuals have gone ahead and reserved graves in preparation of burying their kin.More than 300 graves have been reserved at Lang&rsquo;ata, with each grave reservation costing Sh50,000. &ldquo;I know three prominent families who have 40 reservations each,&rdquo; Nderitu said.While confirming this, Muia said they respect reservations since they are payable. He was not in a position to give the actual number of reserved graves. The lower side of the cemetery is what is next to Lang&rsquo;ata road. This is where &lsquo;permanent&rsquo; graves are and most reservations.Families burying here may opt to rent a tent, chairs, sound system, casket stand and casket lowering equipment. On this day, two families are conducting burials in the permanent section.For a permanent graveyard, adult Nairobians are required to pay Sh30,500, with non-Nairobians parting with Sh40,000.Burying children who died in Nairobi incurs a fee of Sh22,500 and infants Sh15,500, while the fee for children from other counties is Sh28,500 and infants Sh21,500.Permanent graves for non-citizens cost Sh50,000 for adults, Sh35,000 for children and Sh27,500 for infants.The permanent graveyard comes with a lease of 99 years and one is free to put grave markers, which is not allowed in temporary graves. Gravestones made of either cement or more expensive marble can be added to the graves in the permanent section, and families can return to visit loved ones whenever they please.After acquiring a permanent grave, a family is free to reopen it at will and have their relatives and friends buried in the same grave. &ldquo;This is something people don&rsquo;t know and they need to,&rdquo; Nderitu said.The duration of reopening a grave after the first burial does not matter since they don&rsquo;t exhume but bury in layers. &ldquo;This is allowed by the council by-laws,&rdquo; he said. To reopen a grave, one has to pay Sh50,000 for an adult, Sh35,000 for a child and Sh25,000 for an infant.Nderitu said it&rsquo;s important for Nairobi residents to embrace this since space is scarce. &ldquo;We have to accept how things are or else introduce new ways of disposing of the dead, like pouring acid on them and having them evaporate,&rdquo; he said.City Park and Forest Road graves are classified as &lsquo;special&rsquo;, where to bury an adult one pays Sh70,000, a child Sh50,000 and an infant Sh30,000.SEARCH FOR LANDIn the past, the Nairobi county has tried to acquire a new graveyard but the attempts have ended in scandal.In 2009, it emerged that the now-defunct city council paid Sh283 million for 48.5 acres in Mavoko, Machakos county.City Hall lost millions of shillings as the value of the property was estimated to be Sh24 million. The purchased land, which did not have a title deed, was rocky and not even suitable for use as a cemetery, according to the authorities. &ldquo;I have personally been there and you cannot dig more than one metre before getting rocks,&rdquo; Muia said.In January, City Hall, through Lands executive Christopher Khaemba, said it wants to swap the filled-up cemetery with a 50-acre forest land next to the graveyard.He said the county has made the proposal to the Kenya Forest Service. &ldquo;We have asked them to take the cemetery and convert it into a forest and they give us their adjacent land,&rdquo; Khaemba said.The executive said the proposal came after KFS rejected an earlier request to sell the land to the county government.&ldquo;We had agreed to buy the land at the market rate of Sh80 million per acre but KFS refused, even though the title deed does not belong to them,&rdquo; he said.As Nairobi&rsquo;s population increases from an estimated over five million people, it will only put more strain on the already-bulging cemetery. Unless a solution is found, Nairobi residents have little assurance that their final resting place will be a peaceful one.