The
Kenya Power management has dismissed allegations that it has “cooked numbers”
of new electricity connections to fit the Jubilee administration’s target of 70 per cent connectivity at the end of its first term. This
follows news reports in one of the dailies based on leaked internal communication that about
one million of the connections from 3.6 million new customers could be fake or
have never been topped up. Acting managing director Ken Tarus and board chairman Kenneth
Marende yesterday strongly defended the near monopoly utility company over the alleged misrepresentation of facts about customers connected. The management has blamed
non-vending customers for rendering their prepaid meters dormant, dismissing
claims that it is giving wrong electricity connectivity figures. Tarus said 490,668 customers are
connected with power, but they have not vended for some time. Vending is the buying of electricity tokens by a customer
for a prepaid meter. “Most of the customers who are beneficiaries
of the World Bank’s Global Partnership of Output Based Aid, and the Last Mile
Connectivity programmes are largely from informal settlements whose monthly
consumption is two units on average. As a result, most of them take long to
exhaust the initial pre-loaded units,” said Tarus during a press conference at
the company’s Nairobi headquarters. This,
he said adding to the increased number of new constructions in the country, has
led to the installation of pre-paid meters even before full occupation of houses. “Movement
of tenants has resulted to a number of installed meters not vending for the
period of non-occupancy. Illegal connections and bypassing of our meters has
also seen a number of our prepaid metres not vending,” Tarus said. KPLC
says it has connected 5.9 million customers to the grid to date through ongoing
government-led national electrification programmes. Of these, 3.5 million are
on prepaid meters. “The number of connected customers is
accurately captured on a daily basis in our system. KPLC has therefore not lied
to the government as reported,” he said, “Vending of prepaid meters is not the
same as non-connection or no connections.” KPLC
is now mulling over phasing out topped up pre-paid meters during new connections,
where customers will be required to top-up first as opposed to the current
meters which come with units. Marende
said the company remains focused in achieving government targets. “I confirm that this figures are real and that
they have been scientifically in mathematical terms been checked. This year we
have a target of 1.5 million and I can confirm that we are on course to achieve
that target,” he said.