Anne Waiguru has asked the Jubilee Party secretariat to probe those behind chaos that marred a meeting convened to pick members of the Kirinyaga county election board. The governor aspirant on Friday accused her rivals of having a hand, citing a bid to influence the body's composition. The former Devolution cabinet secretary told journalists those causing chaos want their preferred candidates elected to the board. She is fighting for the Jubilee ticket with the incumbent Governor Joseph Ndathi ahead of the August 8 polls. The meeting ended in disarray after some of the participants hurled objects at JP officials and aspirants present. "The people of Kirinyaga are peace-loving and the chaos witnessed today does not in any way mirror what we are," Waiguru said. "It is unfortunate that my opponents can orchestrate such an odious act with the aim of forcing his people into the election board." Waiguru said the chaos were a clear sign that her rival had realised that the "ground has shifted right under his feet". "It is the people of Kirinyaga who will pick their candidates, not election board officials," she said. "I call on Jubilee Party and the government to take action against those behind the chaos. We cannot condone such acts." She proposed that those who cause violence should be barred from taking part in the nominations. Waiguru further noted that it was not necessary for the party secretariat to impose election board officials on members. "All we are interested in is a team that will ensure free and fair nominations." The incident follows in the wake of her billboards being vandalised by unknown persons on Friday last week. Waiguru's supporters accused her opponents of hiring goons to vandalise the billboards at Makutano and Kagio. She is riding on her milestones while at Devolution ministry namely the Uwezo Fund, Youth Fund as well as the establishment of Huduma centres. Jubilee Party has warned aspirants against plans to disrupt meetings meant for electing county election board members. Raphael
Tuju, Head of Secretariat, on Friday said he has reports of some
aspirants planning to cause violence during the meetings. This followed the incident at the Bomas of Kenya where a meeting to elect Nairobi county board officials ended in disarray. Read: Tuju warns Jubilee aspirants against chaos at county board elections Also read: Jubilee teams clash at meet to pick board More on this: Waiguru’s rivals paying NASA to fix her – running mate     