Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu has said residents need guns to defend themselves against armed Somali herders.He accused Governor Julius Malombe of ignoring the suffering of Kitui residents preyed upon by armed Somali herders. Mutambu said Malombe has not carried the body of a murdered friend, or buried a friend, attended a burial or visit terrified displaced people.He spoke on Friday last week at Mboru Primary School. He said any leader opposed to issuing guns to Kitui residents doesn&rsquo;t have the interests of the people at heart. He said many residents have been killed by bandits and deploying police reservists is the only solution.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m telling the governor to stop babysitting the bandits in the name of dialogue. For 40 years, people have been talking of dialogue. Has it helped anybody?&rdquo; Mutambu said.&ldquo;Instead, we bury more bodies and some children are orphaned after their parents are shot dead by the Somalis. If you are talking of dialogue, then disarm your own bodyguards and when you meet with the attackers, tell them to sit down so you start your dialogue.&rdquo;He said that unlike him, Malombe has never carried in his arms the body of a neighbour killed by the Somalis, nor buried a murder victim, nor visited the displaced, who spend the nights in the bush. He has not even stepped into a hospital to visit the critically injured, yet he talks about dialogue, Mutambu said.&ldquo;He has never felt the pain and suffering of these people and should stop his hypocrisy. I&rsquo;m very saddened by his words, but I promise we&rsquo;ll do all we can to make sure those bandits are gone, besides arming locals,&rdquo; he said.Mutambu pledged to support Senator David Musila for governor.The statements come shortly after Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery visited Ukasi and commissioned 80 police reservists. He said another 120 will be deployed to other unsecure areas along the border.In response, Malombe told the Star he is not against peace efforts but fears is afraid arming untrained youths will lead to more deaths. He said youths should be trained fully and employed as GSU to patrol the border.&ldquo;Another thing is moving the Ukasi police post and barrier to Katumba area, which borders Kitui and Tana river counties. We have to clear this impression with those herders who think Ukasi is their border,&rdquo; Malombe said.West Pokot leaders have also criticised the government for issuing more than 500 guns to residents saying that is encouraging more deaths.