Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday supported the government&rsquo;s effort in the war on banditry in the county.He said the security situation in Baringo could spiral into genocide if not contained. &ldquo;Whoever is perpetuating this and let us be very clear they are criminals. The law is very clear on what to do with criminals. You deal with them as the law prescribes and bring them to book and pursue them until we get them,&rdquo; the senator said.Moi said, however, the government launched the security operation too late after many lives and property had been lost. &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t take it now, it could get into a situation where it is total anarchy, where a community goes against a community, leading to a genocide,&rdquo; Moi said in Embu. He said leaders had been pleading with the government to intervene. &ldquo;We have reached that stage where many schools have been shut down. We condemn it in the strongest possible terms and we want the government to continue with what they are doing,&rdquo; he said.Moi said the leaders have made their views known. &ldquo;Even the other day it happened in Baringo North, when we were distributing food, clothing and others to the needy,&rdquo; he said.The senator was referring to an incident in which the bandits looted food for the hunger-stricken and displaced families. &ldquo;We agreed with the President to come in and take charge. The government has come in and it is doing its job,&rdquo; he said.Last week, Deputy President William Ruto ordered police to shoot and kill bandits amid increasing insecurity in Baringo.Suspected Pokot bandits have been behind killings in the region over the last few weeks, leading to dozens of deaths and the displacement of thousands.Last Friday, bandits killed a chief standing 50 to 60 metres from the DP, disrupting his visit and delaying his chopper&rsquo;s take off.Thomas Rutto died during a midday shootout between bandits and security officials. He was among officials providing security for the DP.&ldquo;I am issuing an order to police to shoot any bandit they come across,&rdquo; Ruto said during a rally in Sibilo, Baringo North.&ldquo;I have ordered police officers to shoot anyone stealing livestock whether in possession of a firearm or not and also anyone found with an illegal firearm will be shot on sight,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We will no longer lose more people because of some few elements who do not want to reform.&rdquo;Ruto asked residents to surrender illegal guns, adding &ldquo;maximum force will be used&rdquo;.During the Friday attack, deputy county commissioner Mohamed She Mohamed blamed the violence on failure in communication.He said they were not alerted of an impending bandit attack.About 2,000 residents snubbed Ruto, saying it was more important to bury a murdered teacher and stage demonstrations. Residents demanded President Uhuru Kenyatta visits the area.Ten people have been killed in Baringo in about 10 days. They include two teachers and a breast-feeding mother and her three-day-old infant.Cattle have been stolen and slaughtered, property destroyed. Schools are closed and used as IDP camps.Two politicans &mdash; Tiaty MP hopeful Pepe Kitambaa and MCA Kibet Cheretei &mdash; were also killed. But NASA leaders and other politicians in the Rift Valley have criticised the shoot-to-kill order.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said the order is unconstitutional and can be misused by security forces. The NASA leaders urged the government to deal with well-known criminals instead of issuing a blanket and dangerous.