The newly crowned Tokyo Marathon champion Sarah Chepchirchir believes her impressive performance in Japan will earn her a place in Team Kenya to the August&rsquo;s World Championships in London.Chepchirchir won the Tokyo race in a new course record and personal best time of 2:19.47. The athlete, who comes from Nandi County, achieved another feat of becoming the first athlete to run a sub-2:20 on the Japanese soil.Speaking yesterday after arriving from Japan, Chepchirchir said her biggest wish is to be included in the Team Kenya to the IAAF World Championships in London.&ldquo;My next mission is to represent Kenya at the World Championships. I believe I should be given the chance because I have the experience on the road and I have competed for my country before. If it is performance and consistency, I have proved that and I don&rsquo;t see any reason why I shouldn&rsquo;t be given the chance to fly Kenya&rsquo;s flag high,&rdquo; she said.Chepchirchir finished seventh at the 2010 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships before gaining selection for the 2011 All-Africa Games in Maputo, where she placed fifth in half marathon. &ldquo;I was very impressed with my performance in Tokyo. The fact that I improved on my personal best and posted a course record really motivated me,&rdquo; she added.Chepchirchir made her debut in half marathon in 2008 but her breakthrough came the following year when she won Auray-Vannes half marathon and Maroilles 20km race in France. The 69:27 personal best time she posted at the Lille half marathon in 2010 earned her a selection into the Team Kenya to the World Half Marathon before setting 68:07 course record and personal best at the Humarathon in 2011. The 2013 Ndakaini Marathon winner placed third in Paris Half Marathon in 2012 and won Lisbon Marathon last year after clocking 2:24.13. Chepchirchir, who trains under Rosa Associati will take a few days break before embarking on her training before the next assignment.&ldquo;I want to relax for some time and then start my training. I am hopeful there are still good things for me this year and I am praying God to help me actualise my dream,&rdquo; she said.