Political realignments, defections and political horse-trading have taken centre stage. The latest is a deal cut between the President and Independence party Kanu. The scant information indicates that Kanu will support President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection. It will, however, front candidates nationwide for all other elective positions.There is also talk of Kanu securing Cabinet, parastatal and diplomatic slots in the event of a Jubilee Party victory. This was reached after confidential negotiations between the Moi and Kenyatta families. All other parties, including the Deputy President, who is engaged in superiority political turf wars with Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, were locked out.Uhuru appears to be taking personal charge of his 2017 reelection. There has been concern in Jubilee circles for some time now that a faction allied to the former URP was concentrating on creating political alliances and networks nationwide, with a view to winning the 2022 election, at the expense of Uhuru&rsquo;s 2017 reelection.Baringo Senator Gideon Moi is viewed as a potential threat to DP William Ruto in 2022, as a result the Deputy President has engaged him in constant political battles. The same applies to Peter Kenneth in the Nairobi governor race.The President seems to be stamping his authority by indicating a desire to avoid turf wars that do not add value to his reelection. Ruto may have his beef with the Moi family and others, but this does not necessarily extend to the Kenyattas, who enjoy a cordial relationship with the Mois.Those gloating and speculating about a fallout between Uhuru and Ruto had better think again. Ruto is not about to be sold down the river. Ruto is, has been and remains arguably the most valuable political asset in Kenya for the last decade. ODM leaders discovered this much to their chagrin when Ruto walked out of the Pentagon together with the populous Rift Valley vote bloc.Jubilee is very much awake to this fact and is not about to cut him loose. What Kanu brings to Jubilee is a drop in the ocean compared to Ruto. If anything, Kanu appears to have negotiated and extracted a lopsided deal, heavily in their favour and way beyond their value. Jubilee could even be using this deal as bait to reel in other opposition parties that have been reluctant to shift camp. It is an open secret that Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has been offered a juicier package that he is yet to accept. The offer remains open.There have been murmurs in some circles, especially from nominated Senator Paul Njoroge, of plans to shortchange Ruto by sabotaging his candidature, despite being Uhuru&rsquo;s preferred successor. This would be unwise.As a teetotaller, workaholic and unequalled political strategist, he is constantly networking and creating or renewing alliances across the country. As a consequence he always has plan(s) &lsquo;B&rsquo; or &lsquo;C&rsquo;, all of which can secure him the presidency.Indeed Ruto is perhaps the only Kenyan who possesses the political bargaining power and wherewithal to walk out of the current government, cross to the Opposition and negotiate a coalition that would guarantee him his current position as Deputy President. Jubilee needs Ruto more than he needs them.