Former Mungiki leader Maina Njenga has decamped from Jubilee Party to Kanu and declared that the independence party will rule in 2022. Jubilee rejected Njenga's nomination papers for the Laikipia senator seat citing integrity issues. The aspirant said officers told him they were acting under instructions from President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. He later sued the party and the IEBC saying they acted illegally and that the move infringed upon his political rights. More on this: Jubilee rejects Maina Njenga's nomination papers for Laikipia senator Also read: Maina Njenga sues Jubilee, IEBC for rejecting nomination papers Njenga, who was received at Kanu's Nairobi office on Wednesday, said the party was much better than the President's. He did not say whether he had submitted his nomination papers. "Hii ni chama ya kila mtu...chama cha baba na mama. Si kama huku penye waliangalia makaratasi wakaniambia nigonje jamaa mmoja apigiwe simu. Kwani chama ni ya mtu mmoja?" he posed. This loosely translates to: "This party belongs to everyone...it is the father and mother's party, unlike [Jubilee] where they looked at my papers and told me to wait for someone to be called. Does the party belong to one person?"  Kanu chairman Gideon Moi (Baringo Senator) and Laikipia senator aspirant Maina Njenga during a press conference at the party's headquarters after the latter's defection from Jubilee, March 22, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJA Njenga said "Kanu will be in State House in 2022" and will open offices in Laikipia ahead of the August 8 general election. "Wenye wantaka urais wagonje. Rais atatoka katika chama cha Kanu (Those interested in the presidency should wait until 2022. Kanu will produce the President)." Njenga, who was with an enthusiastic group of supports, added that the party was muscling its way through Laikipia and the country. "Wenye walikuwa wanatuletea huku Jubilee Party office tumewaachai hizo ofisi (Those who dismissed us at JP offices...we have left you those offices)." Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is said to be preparing for the presidency after Uhuru's second term but Ruto is also eying the seat. Gideon said his ambition depends on his party's will but the son of former President Daniel Moi was also quick to add that Ruto has never asked for his support. Read: I could back DP Ruto in 2022, says Gideon Moi In September last year, Ruto asked Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi to support the Jubilee government as a way of returning the favour accorded to him during the 2007 general elections. He said that if Mudavadi supports Jubilee in the forthcoming election, he will likely consider him as his running mate in 2022.