We go to the polls on August 8 in what will be the second general election since the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. The race is clearly shaping up to be a duel between Jubilee&rsquo;s President Uhuru Kenyatta against the yet to be named NASA candidate. What is clear, however, is that whichever political outfit eventually forms the next government, it will obviously have rode to power on the backs of Kenyan youths.It is, therefore, up to youths to focus on taking advantage of their numerical strengths to ensure they occupy more positions of public influence in and outside government, at both county and national levels, after the polls. This can only be attained if they participate in party politics as mediums for political and democratic engagement not only as supporters, but also as candidates. A recent youth survey report by the Aga Khan University showed the median age of Kenyans is 19 years, with about 80 per cent of the total population aged below 35 years. This population provides them with a potential capability to sway the election in a way that suits their preferences.AFRICAN GOVERNANCE ARCHITECTURE STRATEGYThe clarion call for youth&rsquo;s engagement in politics and governance, at high-level decision-making forums, is not only specific to Kenya, but also at the continental level. The African Union, realising the doubled-edged sword that the large population of youths portends for the continent, as either a demographic dividend or a demographic time bomb, decided in January, during the heads of state and governments summit, to dedicate this year&rsquo;s annual theme to harnessing the potential dividend of youths in Africa. In this regard, the AU through its institutional and normative frameworks, embarked on a continuous process for young people to actively participate and engage in its high-level policy formulation and implementation programmes.The key AU framework for engaging young people in the governance, democratic, and political process has been the African Governance Architecture. The African Governance Architecture has in the recent past already rolled out a new strategy with a specific focus on how more young people can get involved with policy issues at high-levels of governance. The core objective is to ensure increased youth engagement within the AU&rsquo;s organs and institutions. It&rsquo;s envisioned that the increased participation of youths in governance structures at high-levels will deepen and widen the democratic principles and values of good governance across AU member nation-states.However, for the African Governance Architecture to attain its stated goals, there is need for it to equally focus on the youths&rsquo; engagement at the sub-national and national levels. This should more so be focussed on youths&rsquo; participation within political parties, with regard to seeking elective posts. This will in essence increase the scope for the youths to be part and parcel of policy formulation. The reason for narrowing the focus to increased engagement of young people to political parties at the national level is due to the centrality of political parties in enabling contenders&rsquo; access to public offices, either through appointments or elections, as a means of acquiring vintage leadership positions necessary for influencing and formulating policies.THE STATISTICSIt&rsquo;s significant to note political parties, despite their myriad shortcomings, are core pillars of furthering democracy more so in multiparty political systems. Therefore it&rsquo;s through political parties that the youths can mostly and legitimately participate in high-level policy and decision making procedure. Through increased participation in political parties, which are the ultimate entities that form governments, youths soar up their numbers and opinions in policy formulation. Thus if youths increase their participation in parties, their stake in the high-level decision-making also rises. This in essence can correct the current scenario, where decision-making is mainly left to the minority older political elites, who essentially have minimal understanding of what the concerns for the young people in most African countries are.The logic and urgency to increase the engagement and participation by the youths in the governance process is driven by the fact that in most countries, only 1.65 per cent of parliamentarians are in the 20s, and just about 11.87 per cent are in their 30s. This is against statistical reality that places the global population of young people below 15 years at 29 per cent. In Africa, the number of youths is even more with people aged between 15 and 24 and accounting for 19 per cent of total global population. The comparison between the age brackets versus number of representatives thus depicts a skewed pattern in favour of the older demographic given the global average age of parliamentarians is 53 years.Therefore, according the statistics, as we up for elections, there is increased need for youth to be at the core of policy and legislation processes, as opposed to the periphery of governance frameworks. However, this call doesn&rsquo;t entirely mean youths in the past have not played a significant role in democracy and governance. Their engagement is traced back to the fight for Independence, through the 1980s and early 1990s during the clamour for the restoration of multiparty democracy, to the major political landmarks in Kenya&rsquo;s history in the 2000s, such as the 2002 defeat of Kanu as well as in the sustained efforts that eventually culminated in the successful constitutional review process and final promulgation of the 2010 Constitution.It&rsquo;s therefore against this backdrop that Kenyan youths ought to view the August poll not only as an opportunity to influence governance and policy formulation at the national level, but also to participate in the high-level decision making process at the continental level and beyond. This can only be successfully achieved if the youths move from the fringes of political parties, as mere supporters, and into the inner sanctums of political parties&rsquo; decision-making institutions and organs that are capable of influencing policy formulation and discourse.The writer is a Ph.D research student at the Department of Political Science &amp; Public Administration, University of Nairobi