At the beginning of this year’s Lent, Catholic Bishops held a public Mass and invited our political leaders. It is here that President Kenyatta made his national call to prayer, peaceful election and rain. “May we all join hands as Kenyans to pray for our beloved nation, for peace, unity, harmony, understanding, and also for rain.” The call hinges on the value Kenyans attach to prayers. In October 2014, while thanking his supporters, Uhuru attributed the collapse of his case at The Hague to prayers: “Si mumesema si uchawi ni maombi?” (Didn’t you say it’s not witchcraft, it’s prayers),” he told cheering supporters. Knut too attributed its court victory in the battle for a pay increase to prayers. Members hoisted shoulder high secretary general Wilson Sossion outside the Supreme Court, as they chanted, “si uchawi, ni maombi (it’s not by witchcraft but by prayer).” Kenyans appeared contented with the appointment of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chairman, one who claimed his unique contribution to slaying graft would be prayer. My retired Archbishop, the Most Rev Eliud Wabukala, in the esteemed view of vetting MPs, was considered the last best hope where all other highly qualified individuals have failed. “We hope you will be able to slay the dragon because Kenyans are looking up to you as a man of integrity and a man of God. If you are not able, we do not know who else to turn to because we have tried other prominent Kenyans and they have failed,” Kuresoi North MP Moses Cheboi said. Yet despite prayer being my trade, I remain sceptical that prayers per se would adequately resolve these conundrums. The role prayer played in Dr Martin Luther King Jr’s work during the Civil Rights Movement is captured in a recollection from his widow Coretta. For my husband, she said: “Prayer was a daily source of courage and strength that gave him the ability to carry on in even the darkest hours of our struggle.” Citizens here have a model to emulate: If we choose to pray we must pray right. This is an admonition not only to the people but also to the President. The value leaders place on those they lead will directly affect how they rule and the residual impact of life in their domain. Here is our giant problem: There must be a transition from just praying to gaining divine wisdom and developing sound policies. Discerning right from wrong, like the Biblical King Solomon. Sound economic policies, more than prayers, should make Kenya prosperous. It’s not a mystery why, for instance, we fail to provide proper healthcare for citizens. While foreign governments, philanthropist and donors – including First Lady Margaret Kenyatta – have shown tremendous compassion and generosity to Kenya’s sick by giving substantive funds for malaria, HIV-Aids drugs, and vaccines, government officials - including the President’s kin – are stealing them through the back door. President John Magufuli of Tanzania has fascinated many with some of the actions he has taken via his motto: Hapa Kazi Tu. Holding public servants accountable for their performance and demanding efficient use of public funds, on one hand, and getting to grips with corruption and tax evasion, on the other, is indispensable to good governance. If Kenya could apply Tanzania’s vigour in restoring its leadership in the environmental sector, we just might begin hitting the right spot. In destroying water towers, we unleashed disaster upon ourselves. Since 2001, 100,000 hectares – more than a quarter of the Mau Forest – were allocated to settlers and cleared. Consequently, there have been cyclical droughts, which are becoming frequent, more severe and less predictable. Countless warnings have gone unheeded, as the late Prof Wangari Maathai, Nobel Peace winner and head of the Green Belt Movement, could testify. “I keep telling people, let us not cut trees irresponsibly ... especially the forested mountains. If you destroy the forests, the rivers will stop flowing and the rains will become irregular and the crops will fail and you will die of hunger and starvation,” she would say. Isn’t this the time to rise above politics and rectify this wrong? And, going forward, the antidote for election violence is allowing the Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission to conduct transparent and fair elections. We recall the 2002 general election with nostalgia because the results were beyond dispute. Neither was there a dispute following the well-conducted referenda in 2005 and 2010, which reflected the will of the majority. We saw trouble due to the opacity that shrouded the 2007 election. We avoided committing murder in 2013 because of the safety valve that was our Supreme Court, whose reputation lies in tatters over its contested ruling. I do not think prayers will shield us from chaos if the electoral process this year is suspect. Our President can work harder for Kenyans, besides calling us to prayer. He should rally us to work for a better Kenya. St Benedict told his followers: “Laborare est orare (to work is to pray).” Kazi Tu — only work. The views expressed here are the author’s own and not those of the Church. (canonomondi08@gmail.com)     