State House yesterday announced that three ODM MPs and a host of MCAs from Wajir county defected to Jubilee Party.However, only two ODM MPs defected. According to the statement dispatched to the media by the State House, the legislators are Adan Keynan (Eldas), Mohamed Elmi (Tarbaj) and Abass Mohamed (Wajir East).But Abass was elected on a URP ticket, hence a JP MP and cannot defect to the same party. The statement further said 15 ODM MCAs also defected to JP but did not provide names.According to the 2013 election results, ODM had seven MCAs, TNA six, Wiper four, URP two, Narc-Kenya two and Ford-Kenya two.Muungano had two, UDF one, Narc one, KNC one, Safina one and Agano Party one.The MCAs led by their speaker Bishar Omar yesterday said their decision to join the ruling party had been informed by the Jubilee administration&rsquo;s development agenda.Keynan said Wajir has resolved to join JP, the winning team. &ldquo;Your Excellency, you know us. We are always clear in our decisions. When we were joining the opposition we declared during the daylight. This is the same thing we are doing here. We are building an inclusive county,&rdquo; Keynan said.The leaders spoke in State House, Nairobi. They said the county has been seriously affected by the ongoing drought and urged the government to scale up its drought mitigation programme.President Uhuru Kenyatta said it has been his desire all along to work with Wajir residents for the sake of unity and stability of the region.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy about the decision you&rsquo;ve made. This has been my prayer since 2013. It was our intention to work with you,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;The most important thing in development is unity and stability. Where there is no unity and peace, there can be no development.&rdquo;Uhuru said the government is implementing several development projects in Wajir to improve living standards.He said water and sewerage project within the county is still on course and its implementation will begin soon. Other projects in the pipeline include the tarmacking of Modogashe-Samata road and phase two of the Modogashe-Kutulo road.Uhuru said he will ensure Northeastern is open for business and investments by constructing roads.