Kenya has received equipment to strengthen its ability to respond to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear attacks or accidents.Authorities say the threat of such incidents is growing daily across the world due to technological advances and the growing population.The European Union yesterday donated specialised equipment worth Sh32 million to boost capacity in Kenya, which also hosts the Eastern and Central Africa regional secretariat CBRN centre of excellence. There are only eight such centres in the world.The equipment was received by Health PS Dr Nicholas Muraguri.&ldquo;This is a demonstration of our good partnership with the EU on chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear response,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Our collaboration has so far resulted in the implementation of five projects aimed at enhancing CBRN risk mitigation efforts.&rdquo; Such incidents are assumed to be intentional and malicious, and the threat perception is compounded by activities of terrorist groups like al Shaabab.Soft targets for such terrorist activities would include densely populated locations and crowded areas. Government agencies and healthcare professionals look for the best ways to mitigate the potential impact of mass casualty during CBRN emergencies.Muraguri said 20 specialists drawn from the major response institutions have been trained to use the equipment. The donation comes after Kenya developed a national CBRN response plan. EU Representative Jean Pierre said the EU would continue working with Kenya and other governments in the region to mitigate chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear risks. &ldquo;The partnership between Kenya and the EU is strong and we look forward to expand our relationship,&rdquo; he said. The CBRN Centres of Excellence are an EU initiative, which is jointly implemented by the United National Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute and the European Commission Joint Research Centre. The aim is to create regional and national initiatives dedicated to improving national policies and international cooperation in CBRN risk mitigation. The countries served by the Nairobi Secretariat are Burundi, DRC, Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Rwanda, Seychelles, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.