The wrangles in the Jubilee Party Mombasa branch are far from over after some members accused governor aspirant Suleiman Shahbal of being a &ldquo;bully and spoiler&rdquo;.They now prefer his deputy Ananiah Mwaboza takes over.Shahbal is alleged to have ordered the defacing of a building opposite the Kenya Medical Training College in Mombasa town. The building had been painted in the Jubilee Party colours.Shahbal is said to have single-handedly put up a JP office in Nyali. The office is, however, not accessible by people from Likoni, Changamwe and other regions west of Mombasa.Faridh Swaleh, the JP Coast coordinator, decided to scout for an office that is centrally placed. However, Shahbal is said to have disapproved and ordered it to be repainted white.On Tuesday, Shahbal is alleged to have sent in workers to repaint the building.&ldquo;We scouted for an office for eight months and finally found this house vacant. We signed an agreement with the house agent and paid Sh240,000 six-month rent,&rdquo; Swaleh said.Mombasa JP chair Matano Chengo yesterday denied the allegations that Shahbal, who is outside the country, is a bully and a spoiler.Security riskHe said the house belongs to Shahbal&rsquo;s uncle, who resides abroad. The house was rented though an agent.According to Matano, Shahbal&rsquo;s uncle was not aware that the house had been rented out to Jubilee. He was sent a photo of the painted house by a relative.&ldquo;The uncle called Shahbal, asking him why he was risking his house by painting it in Jubilee colours. He asked it to be repainted white,&rdquo; Matano said.&ldquo;Shahbal has nothing to do with this. He has no control over that property. Faridh Swaleh and his group should stop tarnishing Shahbal&rsquo;s name.&rdquo;Swaleh said has been financing JP activities at the Coast and has spent almost Sh3 million in setting up the office.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m saddened by this act. I&rsquo;m not vying for any political seat in the region, but I have been financing some party activities in the region. Shahbal has already started war with other members before he is even elected, people are now preferring Ananiah Mwaboza to him,&rdquo; the businessman said.Swaleh, who has vast interests in the transport sector, has ordered office furniture, T-shirt printing machines, and paper printing machines, among other equipment, from Dubai, to furnish the office.Bizena Swaleh, a JP member, yesterday said Shahbal is not a politician but a businessman who does not have the interest of Jubilee at heart.&ldquo;Shahbal has sent his people to deface this building. This shows that he is not a true supporter of Jubilee, but rather a spoiler. We have no faith in him,&rdquo; she said.Shamsa Fadhili, another JP member, said she was part of the team that went round scouting for a Jubilee office in Mombasa town.&ldquo;We are so surprised that this office in the middle of the town is irritating some people. We cannot have a person who is our leader oppose such a project. We now prefer Mwaboza and endorse him to take over,&rdquo; she said.Bring proof of appointmentOn Tuesday, a man named Abdulrahman Mahmoud claimed he is the county coordinator.He said he was interviewed at the party headquarters in Nairobi and he beat nine other people to the position.&ldquo;We are being made to clash by the leadership. I am the county coordinator,&rdquo; he said.Mahmoud told the Star he was to be officially unveiled on March 3, but the party postponed the ceremony because there was some problem with the party in Mandera.&ldquo;I was informed that the party is looking for a way forward,&rdquo; he said.Mahmoud was introduced to some party members at a hotel in Mombasa.However, Shahbal said there are many imposters who want to pose as leaders.Through his spokesman Abdulswamad Ali, Shahbal said the party has not released any letter authorising anyone to act as the county coordinator.&ldquo;Let anybody who comes to you with such claims show you an official letter from the party,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone yesterday.Mahmoud said he is ready to work with the party&rsquo;s secretary general in Mombasa to move the party forward.He said he wants to ensure there will be free and fair nominations on April 22.The Jubilee Party is working with the IEBC to conduct the primaries.&ldquo;We are a party that is well-organised and people will always want to associate themselves with us. That is why you will see all manner of people claiming they are party officials,&rdquo; Ali said.