Investors at the Nairobi Securities Exchange may in the near future be able to temporarily transfer shares and bonds from one party to another for cash or its equivalent if proposals by the Capital Markets Authority are approved. CMA chief executive Paul Muthaura yesterday said the regulator has asked the Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich to include Securities Lending and Borrowing and Short Selling regulations 2016 in the Finance Bill 2017. Securities lending is the act of loaning a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm. It requires the borrower to put up collateral whether cash, security or a letter of credit. It will enable investors to borrow and lend shares to each other for margin trading, thereby boosting cash supply in the capital markets through short selling. Muthaura said the structure, if adopted, will free more stocks that are available for trading, potentially increasing market turnover. &ldquo;The national budget team recognises the opportunities that come with securities lending and borrowing. We expect it to be included in this year's budget,&rdquo; Muthaura said during a forum in Nairobi on improving liquidity in capital markets. CMA is also keen to strengthen Collective Investment Schemes reporting and structuring, the regulator said. CIS allows several individuals to come together to pool their money for investing in a particular asset and share the returns as per their agreement. The initiative is being supported by the Financial Services Volunteer Corps, the US Securities and Exchange Commission and Bloomberg, which have structured a technical assistance mission to support the CMA and industry players in increasing liquidity in the country&rsquo;s capital markets. &ldquo;SBL will increase the number of buyers and sellers in the market. It will also help attract foreign investors,&rdquo; FSVC President and CEO Andrew Spindler said. &ldquo;Robust capital markets play a critical role in sustainable economic development by mobilising domestic savings and foreign capital for longer-term, productive investment.&rdquo; If successful, it will see Kenya join South Africa and Nigeria in SLB trading. Morocco is streamlining its regulatory laws for the same. Beneficiaries will include pension funds, insurance firms, collective investment schemes, hedge funds and sovereign funds. &ldquo;This will allow investors not to sit on securities but generate revenue from them. It will increase liquidity in the market,&rdquo; said Selloua Chakri, Bloomberg's Middle East and Africa head of market structure and strategy.The Central Depository and Settlement Corporation initiated the SLB in June 2014 with setting up of IT infrastructure, but was derailed by regulatory gaps.CDSC oversees the conduct of Central Depository Agents comprised of stockbrokers and investments banks which are members of the NSE and custodians.