The cost of living in the month of February rose to a multi-year high in February as effects of failed rains in October-December 2016 period took a toll on food prices, the state statistician said last evening. Data by the Kenya national Bureau of Statistics showed inflation rose to 9.04 per cent last month from 6.99 per cent in January. This is the highest rise since June 2012. The KNBS attributed the steep rise in the cost of goods and services to increased prices of food and non-alcoholic drinks due to depressed supply as a result of ravaging drought. The food and non-alcoholic drinks index, which accounts for 36 per cent of the consumer price index basket, rose by 3.28 per cent compared to last month and a whopping 16.50 per cent compared to February last year. “This was mainly attributed to increases in pricers of sukuma wiki, maize flour, milk, cabbages, spinach, potatoes and maize grain among others,” KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi said in a statement. “This was partly contributed by the prevailing drought conditions.” Transportation costs rose by 0.74 month-on-month on increased fuel prices, while the index for housing, water, gas and other fuel rose by 0.40 per cent. The inflation target surpassed the government target of between 2.5 per cent and 7.5 per cent for the first time since December 2015. This will give a headache to the Central Bank's Monetary Policy Committee in its next meeting set for March 27. The committee, chaired by CBK governor Patrick Njoroge, is mandated to ensure stability in the prices of goods and services over the short term. The MPC said during its last meeting on 30 that there was pressure on food prices, but noted that non-fuel, non-food prices were elevated in December. The data will come as a shock to the MPC which had expected inflation to remain with the 2.5 and 7.5 per cent band. “Food inflation remained elevated in December, particularly for tomatoes, sugar, cabbages, kales (sukuma wiki), and maize flour, due to the prevailing unusually dry weather conditions. Food and electricity prices are expected to remain elevated in the near term,” Njoroge had said.