Jurgen Klopp believes Liverpool have finally proven they have another side to their character after grinding out a victory of huge importance.A common criticism of Liverpool this season has been the fact they have not been able to turn bad performances in to wins but that was not the case against Burnley, as arguably their most disjointed home display of the campaign secured three points.It was a fillip for Klopp &ndash; who revealed his influential captain Jordan Henderson will miss England&rsquo;s forthcoming games against Germany and Lithuania &ndash; as for much of the opening 45 minutes they looked bereft of ideas but, somehow, they scrambled over the line.&ldquo;This was not our best game,&rdquo; said Klopp. &ldquo;There was not too much football. In this kind of play, Burnley may be the best team. They are used to everything; they fight for the first ball, have a really good formation for the second and run in behind for the third.&rdquo;&ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t score early against them, you need to fight. And we did. If we want to stay where we are, then you need to win football games. It is really good that we could do it even like this. The average games and the bad games you need a challenge or two.&rdquo;Gini Wijnaldum and Emre Can scored the decisive goals and they will continue with that responsibility on their shoulders at Manchester City next Sunday, given that Henderson has not recovered from a foot injury sustained in training two weeks ago.&ldquo;The break hopefully is two weeks, we hope that will bring him back but he cannot train, cannot play against City,&rdquo; Klopp confirmed. &ldquo;It makes sense he is doing the rehab. Hopefully he can run in the second week of the international break.&rdquo;Can had a mixed afternoon, his goal masking a disappointing opening 45 minutes and Klopp did not disguise the fact the Germany international was out of sorts. He was, though, delighted with the manner of his 25-yard drive that secured victory.&ldquo;In the second half Emre was very good,&rdquo; said Klopp. &ldquo;In the first half it was a challenge he should have had before Burnley&rsquo;s goal but things like that happen in football. It does not make you a bad person. We have to react and he reacted really well.&rdquo;It was difficult not to feel sympathy for Burnley, who led through Ashley Barnes&rsquo; strike. Their players left Anfield disconsolate their efforts were not rewarded but they have a resolve not to become the first squad at the club since 1903 to go through the season without winning away from Turf Moor.&ldquo;It is a broken record but I thought we deserved something,&rdquo; said Burnley manager Sean Dyche. &ldquo;We were resolute in our defending, we had good organisation, a good tactical plan; we scored a sublime first goal, then had two or three other chances and ruffled their feathers.&rdquo;&ldquo;We deliberately made it awkward for them. It is a nearly (game) but we have had too many &lsquo;nearlys&rsquo; on the road. We need to make it happen but if we play like that, we will make it happen.&rdquo;