The story is not new. Even under the oppressive regime of Daniel Moi there was better etiquette of getting rid of the civil servants he did not like. They were quietly asked to resign, transferred to other lowly offices or "promoted" to serve abroad as ambassadors. The Office of the Auditor General, unfortunately, cannot be treated that way: It is a constitutional office. The Constitution specifies very clearly how the Auditor General is appointed and removed from office. Moreover, the witch hunt and the fishing expedition his detractors are involved him as a way of removing him are sinister. These guys confirm the old adage: The guilty are afraid.Now the issue at stake is not whether the holder of the office is doing his job well or badly. The issue at stake is that the very act of doing his job well has landed Edward Ouko into problems with the President and his handlers. It is not lost to the public that when Ouko, in the company of his colleagues in the civil service not too long ago, visited State House, President Uhuru Kenyatta chastised him publicly for apparently having visited the US to follow the trail of the Eurobond money. For some reason, the President felt offended by this action, obviously betraying a deep feeling that the Auditor General had no business travelling overseas to do his work.Fortunately, the Constitution gives that office the autonomy to pursue the trails on how public money is used in Kenya, even up to high heavens or into the depth of hell. That is the AG's constitutional duty that cannot be taken from him by an upset head of state. Even lowly figures such as ourselves who sit in parliamentary oversight committees can travel to Buenos Aires in search of the people we need to interview in accordance with the issues raised in the Auditor General's reports. In all fairness, the President dialled a wrong number when he told Ouko off for doing what he swore to do when taking the oath of office.But the battle did not end there. MPs, businessmen, lawyers and all kinds of busy bodies known or allied to the Jubilee honchos have gone out of their way in fishing expeditions to hound Ouko out of office. Get me right. They are not doing so because Ouko is a Luo, nor are they doing so for any genuine public concern. They are doing so because Ouko, exercising the true powers of that office, has been faithful to his duties on the Eurobond issue. Ask any sensible economist who has analysed the Eurobond issue dispassionately, they will tell you that within three months, if the government does not get yet another sovereign loan in the international market to repay the first Eurobond, we shall be at the precipice of becoming another Greece. Yet up to now, we still don't know how the first Eurobond was used. Ouko would do us a lot of good were he to present to us a Special Audit of the first Eurobond. Floating another sovereign bond, simply to repay what we have misused, does not make a lot of sense. We need Ouko to enlighten us. We are the taxpayers.And please, Mr President, take it easy on the Ouko case. It is common knowledge that Justin Muturi, the Speaker of the National Assembly, outsourced his job to you from the very beginning. He does not make important rulings in the House without consulting you. MPs from both sides of the House say this. So it cannot be "mere rumours" as your spokesman, Manoah Esipisu, would have as believe. The courts have judged that Parliament should not continue discussing the issue. In your tet-a-tet with Muturi, please, Mr President, tell him to follow the example of the Speaker of the Senate, Ekwe Ethuro. On matters that are sub judice, however unreasonable they may seem to us as senators, Ethuro always respects the principle of separation of powers as laid down in the Constitution.The issue of indebtedness is very much part of how much we are prepared, as a nation, to spend on infrastructural development. In his State of the Nation Address, the President did not in the least address himself to this issue. For example, we are all very happy that Jomo Kenyatta International Airport has now been qualified to enjoy the status of airports such as Heathrow and Amsterdam. In other words, it is now considered safe enough for planes to land and take off from JKIA to any destination in the world. But we have one major hitch: The runway. We have only one runway. If anything goes wrong on that runway, planes are usually diverted to Mombasa at the risk of inconveniencing thousands of passengers.Right from the Coalition Government, plans had been put in place for the "Greenfield Terminal Project" that was meant, among other things, to provide our airport with a second runway. The project was meant to be completed this year; but it collapsed. Why? Because the Chinese construction company, Anhui Construction Company, was to secure credit worth $600 million for the job. However, according to the Board of Kenya Airports Authority, it failed to do so. Question is, why did the project start before money was made available? Further, is it really true that Kenya is bound to pay Sh15 billion for terminating the contract prematurely? Was the construction sum inflated to accommodate kick backs by the Jubilee honchos, leading to a major disagreement with partners involved in financing the project? Hence the termination of the contract prematurely? I smell a rat called corruption in this deal which went sour.Issues like these are the ones that may be causing the Jubilee government nightmares, hence the need to have a "user friendly" Auditor General, who will gloss over the details and give institutions such as the Kenya Airports Authority clean bills of health. Whatever the case, we shall still be saddled with projects whose costs are too expensive for us to pay as tax payers over the next 50 or so years. Yes, we need infrastructure, but at what cost? Just saying the foreign debt is 50 per cent of the GDP does not tell us much. If we cannot service the loans that we have and continue to borrow more to service our debts we shall soon have trains whose tickets are too expensive for our people to afford. Voodoo economics; nothing more.The question "infrastructure at what cost?" has frequently been raised by political economist Dr David Ndii; I claim no patent in raising this issue. But the government has constantly remained mute, simply harping on the socio-economic benefits of the SGR. Of course it is going to be faster to travel from Mombasa to Nairobi on the SGR. But what happened to the idea of building an electric powered line? If we didn't have enough megawatts locally, were there no possibilities of importing power? But more seriously, can the government stand up and speak out on the issue of cost. There is evidence at the global level that the average cost of putting up such a railway is $3 million per kilometer. Tanzania is doing theirs, through a much rougher terrain, at $2.7 million per kilometer. Kenya, on the other hand, has already spent $8 per kilometer. Now, who is fooling who?You guys leave Ouko to unveil these things for us. Harassing him out of office won't change the facts. Facts are stubborn. And remember, Article 226 (5) of the Constitution says, "If the holder of a public office, including a political office, directs or approves the use of public funds contrary to the law or instructions, the person is liable for any loss arising from that use and shall make good the loss, whether the person remains the holder of the office or not." These guys may succeed in hounding the present Auditor General out of office now. What stops another AG from pursuing "the guilty" who are currently afraid in future. I rest my case.