Businessman Paul Kobia yesterday caused drama in a Nairobi court as his name was called out to take a plea on charges of kidnapping of a Congolese trader.Kobia threw a tantrum and wailed but he was calmed down by court orderlies.He presented himself to court accompanied by his lawyer Kiraithe Wandungi to answer charges of abducting businessman Bachard Londole and assaulting him.But when Kobia&rsquo;s name was called out by the court clerk, he stood up and started to shout. He was, however, led to the dock by the orderlies.Asked why he was shouting in court by trial magistrate Francis Andayi, Kobia said he did not shout deliberately, but because of the pain he was feeling in his head from injuries he suffered when he was involved in a road accident on March 11.Kobia told the magistrate, &ldquo;Listen to me your honour, this court is unfair to me. Why have I been taken out of a hospital bed to attend court?&rdquo;The drama continued outside the court when the wives of Kobia&rsquo;s bodyguards accused him of their husbands&rsquo; woes.They said he was the reason their husbands were arrested. Kobia is charged alongside his four bodyguards &ndash; Alvin Anzaya, Nelson Movi, John Mutwiri and Martin Mwangi. They have denied the charges and were released on Sh500,000 bail or Sh800,000 bond each. They are still in remand after they failed to raise the bond.Londole was allegedly abducted on March 9 at 5.30am. Kobia had alleged that Londole owed him Sh40 million. The police charge sheet says Kobia and his bodyguards stormed into Londole&rsquo;s home at Super Lodge along Kindaruma Road, beat him up and took him to Kobia&rsquo;s house in Kileleshwa. Lawyer Wandungi told the court that Kobia had been given a two-week bed rest by the doctor following the road accident. The magistrate allowed Kobia to go home and continue receiving medical attention. He is expected in court on April 10 to take a plea.Wandungi also told the court the complainant wishes to withdraw charges against Kobia and his four bodyguards.But the prosecution led by senior state counsel Eddie Kaddebe told the court it had not been informed about the withdrawal of the case.Kobia was supposed to appear in court on March 24, but he did not. The magistrate then directed that he presents himself yesterday to plead to the charges.