National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale thinks it is impractical to implement the two-thirds gender rule in 60 days.The alternative is dissolution, as directed by the High Court on Wednesday. More on this: Parliament given 60 days to implement gender rule or face dissolutionBut Duale said: "What the judge |(John Mativo) has said is an exercise in futility." Here is the rest of his reaction, alongside those of Deputy minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem) and KEWOPA chair&nbsp;Cecily Mbarire (Runyenjes). Duale:Parliament has tried to implement that rule. The legislature acts through procedures; a Bill must go through all processes in Parliament and get the required approval. It was done in more than three stages but that approval could not be achieved.Parliament has done its bit and nobody can coerce it. The next option is for the 12th parliament is to start the process afresh.The courts cannot intimidate the Legislature. It is an independent institution and we don't work at the will of other institutions including the Executive. If that is the case, then courts can turn themselves into Parliament and implement the two-thirds gender rule.A 60-day ultimatum is not even practical because a constitutional bill must mature 90 days. The judge is contradicting himself. Even if I publish the Bill, it has to mature within 90 days before introduced in the House.&nbsp;It has also to go through the two Houses and the earliest time the Bill will take is 9 months. If he thinks we can do a constitutional amendment bill within 60 days then that is not the Kenyan legislature. It might be for other countries. The best advice to Judiciary is to ask the 12th Parliament to implement that constitutional provision because I am in support of that idea. When I come back as an MP of Garissa Town I will be first person to deal with that issue.&nbsp; Midiwo: That is a bad ruling. Courts cannot direct how Parliament works. In 60 we will be nearing election time. I am opposed to that thing because it does not address the numbers of members of parliament.They are making a bad situation and that provision cannot be sorted out in court. Remember there is another ruling saying the provision is progressive. Has the judge overturned that ruling?Mbarire: We are heading to the elections and the ruling's practicability is in doubt. However, putting a law in place before the elections can be done if Parliament is pushed.I have seen the the House push other critical constitutional laws by reducing number of days of publication. In fact, this is not a new law per se. We have tried to bring it on the floor for the last two years and we have tried to push it. In terms of maturity, it was already there and right now it is properly before the Senate.What Kenyans need to know is that come August 10, once we are done with the elections and the House is not properly constituted, it can be dissolved.Why take that risk instead of ensuring the law is in place. We even told the House that law doesn't have to say that all those positions must be filled at once.You can stagger with clear timeliness to have the 12th parliament achieve a certain number and the next achieve a certain number. But when you leave it quiet it can be challenged before the courts. The House better takes it very seriously.&nbsp;