Fresh from bagging eight points in the Challenge Trophy in Las Vegas last weekend, Kenya Sevens will be seeking to qualify for the elusive Main Cup quarter-finals at the Vancouver Sevens today. Shujaa have been drawn in a tough Pool A alongside series leaders South Africa, England and Chile. It promises to be tough test for Innocent Simiyu s charges who have blown hot and cold this season and are currently placed 11th on the standings with 35 points after five tournaments. Kenyans open their campaign against England at 9:58pm. The two sides clashed in Sydney with England coming from behind to win 19-12. Kenya best ever result against Simon Amor s men is a 19-19 draw in Cape Town in 2015 and this time round, Simiyu will have to come up with new tactics to edge the combative English outfit, who have the flat-footed Dan Norton, Dan Bibby and James Rodwell in their ranks.Kenya will then face South Africa at 1:56am. The two teams met in Sydney with the Blitzbokke coming from behind to win 14-7 in a pulsating encounter.The Olympic bronze medalists are the form team of the circuit with four tournament wins out of five and will fancy their chances. Key players for the South Africans include Chris Dry, Werner Kok, skipper Phillip Snyman and play-makers Cecil Africa and Branco Du Preez. Shujaa finish their preliminary assignments against Chile at 5:14am on Sunday morning. Kenya edged Chile last weekend in Vegas with the South Americans putting up gallant effort in the second half after trailing 21-0 at half time. Skipper Andrew Amonde said the side must take their chances against the heavyweights in the pool and avoid lapses of concentration which have cost them dearly in the season. It will be a physical contest. We must execute better in attack in the two matches against South Africa and England and hopefully get the win, he added.Amonde, who had a superb tournament in Vegas, said the boys were lifted by winning the Challenge Trophy last weekend but are not satisfied. We want to be in the Main Cup quarter-finals and get the 10 points. The boys know they can and that s the standard we need to target, he added. Simiyu will start with Andrew Amonde, Willy Ambaka and Bush Mwale up-front with World Sevens series top try scorer Collins Injera as play-maker alongside Billy Odhiambo, Sammy Oliech and Nelson Oyoo in the backs.Elsewhere, KRU championship outfit University of Eldoret s Trojans are favorites to clinch the inaugural Baraton 10 s rugby tournament tomorrow at the institution s grounds.Tournament organise, Banny Rono, said Trojans are among 10 teams that have confirmed participation in the annual event. Rono said another championship side Moi University Arsonists are also expected to participate. Trojans and Arsonists have games today but Rono said the two sides have confirmed availability.Other teams expected include Eldoret Falcons, Rift Valley Technical Institute, Kapsabet, Eldoret, Annex, Iten, Kaimosi College, Kabarak University and hosts Baraton Flames. Rono said the tournament is aimed at raising drug abuse awareness. This will be the first rugby tournament in Nandi County and we expect it to be a big one, Rono said.In the KRU Nationwide western region, leaders Masinde Murilo face third-placed Shieywe while Bungoma RFC host bottom Kakamega Welfare at Bungoma High School grounds. In Nyanza region, run away leaders Maseno University travel to Homa Bay to play Homa Bay while Mbale entertain Siaya RFC.