The proposed National Olympic Committee of Kenya constitution has been rejected.The proposed draft was shot down by 19-13 vote at a stormy extraordinary general meeting at a city hotel. The constitution of Nock calls for a two-third majority to pass the constitution and that meant the document needed 22 votes to pass and be enacted as lawThe meeting was attended by head of institutional relationships and governance at the International Olympic Committee Jerome Poivey and Anoca chief of staff Mohammed Azzouga. When contacted for comment, the duo refused to comment on the proceedings.Nock chairman Kipchoge Keino said he will seek guidance from the IOC on the way forward after the stalemate. &ldquo;We will communicate with IOC on what to do next because the draft has been defeated but all is not lost. We must get a solution, &rdquo; added KeinoNock secretary general, FK Paul, struck a reconciliatory tone in the aftermath of the meeting. &ldquo;I know emotions are running high but we must go back to the drawing board and create consensus. The federations are key stakeholders in Nock and we must certainly get a solution,&rdquo; added Paul. Sources said that Nock had tried &lsquo;a give and take formula&rsquo; without much success. According to the sources, Nock executive opined that for them to agree to the changes on their voting powers, this should cut across with head of federations resigning their positions and seeking Nock mandate at individual level&mdash;but this move was rejected. Nock also sought to have the changes on &lsquo;voting powers&rsquo; take effect at the next AGM&mdash; four years from now&mdash;but this too was rejected. Kenya Volleyball Federation (FKF) chairman, Waithaka Kioni, said the majority will prevail irrespective of the move by some of the executive members.&ldquo;What you have seen today is that the majority of us in the federations and some members of the executive want a new beginning. It&rsquo;s only a few people, who want to entrench the old order,&rdquo; he said. Security was tight at the meeting with several administration policemen positioned on the floor to maintain law and order.Proponents of the new constitution led by Kenya Table Tennis Association president, Andrew Mudibo, blamed some members of the executive for shooting down the new constitution. &ldquo;We had seen this coming. This executive had put hurdles and obstacles from Day One and so we are not surprised that its been defeated,&rdquo; added Mudibo. Sources at the meeting claimed that some executive members voted for the new document while those against the document were drawn from swimming, cycling, taekwondo and weight-lifting. Mudibo said the Kenyan sporting fraternity should remember the Rio Olympics fiasco and call for a new mandate at Nock. &ldquo;We all know what happened in Rio. Our athletes suffered because of the incompetence and inefficiency of some of the executive members and its time they read the mood in the sporting fraternity,&rdquo; he added.He said they were exploring various options including telling the federation to pull out of Nock if the stalemate persists. &ldquo;The IOC has given us road-map on what to do and I don&rsquo;t see why the executive wants to bring surprises at the last minute yet they have been part of the process from the word go,&rdquo; he addedMudibo observed they will not go to an election under the old constitution. &ldquo;The federations are very clear; no constitution no election. If the executive wants to go ahead with the old documents, the election will lack credibility,&rdquo; he added.