A meeting between Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and small-scale traders on Wednesday ended in disarray, following a disagreement over the best way to pay the participants’ allowances. Rasanga told them they would be paid via M-Pesa, but the traders demanded cash. Trouble started when Rasanga, who had appealed for a second term, told them he would compensate them for taking their time to attend, and cater for their transport expenses. The traders included retailers, cobblers, Jua Kali artisans and matatu operators. Some had arrived at Siaya Agricultural Training Centre as early as 7.30am. Rasanga said each participant would be reimbursed electronically through the point men who invited them to the meeting. But this was met with uproar. The traders demanded to be told how much each of them would get, but the governor would not say. Businessmen Job Wadenya and Paul Oketch later told reporters none of the participants was asked for their mobile phone number. As the murmurs continued, former Alego-Usonga MP Sammy Weya and his brother Joe, who is seeking the seat, gave Sh25,000 on top of the governor’s offer. Rasanga took the money and said it will also be distributed electronically, which angered the traders further. When Rasanga stood his ground, the crowd began to disperse, shouting support for Rasanga’s opponents Nicholas Gumbo and William Oduol. Others vented their anger on his campaign posters, tearing them to pieces. Rasanga gave the Sh25,000 back to the Weyas and sped off with his team, leaving behind the traders who later huddled in groups to discuss the development. Weya gave the money to youths who had mobbed him and left as the young men fought over the notes, tearing some. “We know politicians. You finish up with him or her on the spot and the issue of electronic money transfer does not arise,” trader Oketch said. Wadenya and Oketch said they received a formal invitation and had expected a fruitful discussion. They showed the media an invitation from the Siaya branch of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry sent via SMS. “Hallo, chamber of commerce Siaya is requesting traders to have a meeting with the Governor Rasanga at ATC tomorrow 22/3/2107 at 7.30am. Inform other traders. Keep time. CEO, KNCCI SIAYA COUNTY,” the message reads. The governor is facing stiff competition from Rarieda MP Gumbo, who has the support of Siaya sitting MPs. The legislators have accused him of giving the residents a raw deal. They say despite receiving Sh30 billion, he has nothing to show for it. Rasanga, on the other hand, has accused his opponents of malice and engaging in cheap political propaganda.