&ldquo;Few people would accept to work in a cemetery but I have been here for 15 years and the challenges we go through complicate this delicate, risky, hounding but unavoidable job. But I have no choice and agreed to be here,&rdquo; Peter Marigit says.Marigit, 46, is happy to be a cemetery attendant at the Kiplombe Public Cemetery in Eldoret, where he reports to daily as an employee of the Uasin Gishu government. He toils hard to dig graves and help bury the dead. Every Friday, he and his eight colleagues walk 6km to the Moi Referral Hospital mortuary, where they collect unclaimed bodies for burial. On a normal day, they sit under a tree at the cemetery staring at the vast, unfenced, 50-acre graveyard north of Eldoret town not far from the Eldoret Airstrip.ILL-EQUIPPEDThe workers say the county has not given them the necessary tools, uniforms, protective material and other needs to perform their work easily. They say they have been neglected by the county along with the cemetery itself, which has remained open for many years, attracting thieves who come to steal metals used on construction of some of the graves. The land has also not been spared from prospective grabbers. Marigit and his colleagues are forced to carry their own tools from home, including jembes, pangas, water cans, drills, gumboots and other requirements, which the county has failed to provide despite being informed. &ldquo;The Health executive and other officials have been here severally and listed all the problems we face. However, once they go away, nothing is implemented and it looks like they treat us like people who are buried,&rdquo; one attendant said. He says even the dead have rights and it&rsquo;s unfair for cemetery workers to be exposed to problems yet they perform the most difficult job for the county. Although they are permanent employees with a basic salary of Sh20,000 and Sh15,000 house allowance per month, they get a paltry Sh200 as risk allowance per month, and the county has been unable to issue them with uniforms and identification badges for four years. &ldquo;Fridays are the most terrible days for us. We have to foot to the morgue and use bare hands to collect the unclaimed bodies, some of them in bad condition, for burial. We need protection masks and gloves but they are not provided. It&rsquo;s a risky job for us but we do it,&rdquo; Marigit said. GRAVE FEESAt the cemetery, about 15 burials are carried out per week and residents have to pay Sh4,000 for an adult&rsquo;s grave and Sh1,500 for children. &ldquo;We thought the money they collect should be ploughed back into buying us the facilities we need and maintaining the cemetery but here it seems both the dead and those of us who attend to the cemetery have no rights,&rdquo; the employee said. Health chief officer Wilson Kemei admits to problems in maintaining the cemetery and its workers but says funds have already been set aside to procure all the requirements for the workers. &ldquo;We had bought items like the equipment the workers need but some of them may have worn out and we will replace them,&rdquo; he said. The cemetery requires a new worship area because the one put up using iron sheets many years ago is now dilapidated. Huruma MCA Peter Chomba, who has been fighting to have the cemeteries protected from grabbers and maintained, says the county should invest in improving Kiplombe and other cemeteries. &ldquo;Cemetry land is an easy target for grabbers and were it not for the fight we have had, the Kiplombe cemetery and others would long have been taken over by grabbers,&rdquo; he said.CREMATION A 'HARD SELL'Resident Paul Ruto says cremation of the dead is a thinking that is very hard to sell to communities in Eldoret. &ldquo;Our people still revere the ancestors and many believe cremation is unacceptable," he said. "Yes cremation will help us save on the use of land that is quickly diminishing but it&rsquo;s even not easy for a community like the Kalenjin to accept the idea of burning the dead." Many Christians also believe in resurrection and to them, cremating the dead is a taboo and not African. Bishop Ben Njoroge says death is a sensitive matter in many communities and it is important to let people bury their dead in the way they would wish.&rdquo;Even with the shortage of land for cemeteries, few people will ever accept cremation,&rdquo; he said. MCA Chomba says the town has several cemeteries used in the past but have been neglected after they were shut down. &ldquo;People go back to the cemeteries to remember their relatives by visiting the graves, and it&rsquo;s important that they find a good environment and not the bushy graveyards that can scare away residents,&rdquo; he said. Back at the Kiplombe cemetery, the attendants report to work daily hoping for a bright day when their plight will be taken seriously by the county government. &ldquo;Here we have a job that has to be done one way or another, and the county government should put its act together and remember us the workers here so we can take care of the graveyard for future generations,&rdquo; one attendant said.