After recording a statement with the DCI on forgery claims, a fired up Hassan Joho told excited supporters he will hold a rally in Kibra on Thursday to "tell Uhuru the truth".The Mombasa county chief on Tuesday defended his D- in KCSE saying he struggled through school and was not as privileged as President Uhuru Kenyatta.He and Uhuru have taken each other to task over matters including development and the use of funds.Joho has held several rallies at the Coast but some did not take place over hurdles including what police said was lack of approval."We told you that after Coast tours, we will take the fight to the door step. Tomorrow we are in Kibra near their homes," he told his supporters on Wednesday.Joho went to the police headquarters accompanied by ODM leaders including Siaya Senator and lawyer James Orengo, woman representative Mishi Mboko, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and secretary general Agnes Zani (Nominated Senator).They held hands as they marched there in a show of solidarity while their supporters waved placards questions the government on the woes their Governor has been facing.Read: DCI summons Joho to record statement over forged exam slip claimsAlso see: [VIDEO] 'Fire for fire': Politicians, youths cause frenzy, march to DCI with JohoJoho reprimanded President Uhuru Kenyatta saying he should focus his energy on bettering the lives of Kenyans."Niko na ushauri...Uhuru, hii nguvu ambayo anatumia sasa, ama kweli angetumia kwa niaba ya wananchi. Hii nguvu anatumia sasa atumie kuboresha maisha ya wakenya," he said.(I have advice for Uhuru...The strength he is using now can be used to improve the people's lives.)He told the President to use the same amount of force to fight corruption over which members of the public have repeatedly complained and Uhuru has admitted frustration.Noting that Uhuru said he would flog him during the Mtongwe ferry services relaunch, the Governor reiterated that he was not afraid.Uhuru said Joho was following him everywhere and interfering with his mandates as Kenya's leader but the county boss said he was fighting for his people's rights and would go anywhere he felt required to.He said today: "Misimamo wa Nasa ni Ali Joho na sibanduki. Uhuru alikuwa hapa likoni akasema ataninyorosha...sikuogopi, my friend. Naogopa tu Mungu wangu...tumia hiyo nguvu leo na kesho.. wakenya watakuonyesha on August 8."This loosely translates to: "My stand will not change and I will not be swayed. Uhuru said here that he would flog me...I do not fear you, my friend. I only fear God. You can use that force today but Kenyans will make their choices on election day."He added that God's wrath will be felt during the general election.Regarding the forgery claims, Joho said he saw charge sheets prepared against him."Mimi na macho yangu makali nilipokuwa pale, waliweka charge sheet pale...wanataka kunipeleka korokoroni. Wao wanataka kunitisha...misiogope na msibabaike (My sharp eyes saw the charge sheet. They want to take me to prison and scare me...do not be worried or afraid," he claimed.But he added: "As long as I am alive I will be on the ballot and the electorate will select [NASA chief] Raila Odinga as their president."On March 15, the Governor demanded that sniffer dogs be taken to his Nyali home where six armed men were spotted the previous night.Joho said the men were in plain clothes, had AK 47 rifles and that they were outside his home for an hour. He claimed they were police officers."They were here from 10pm to 11pm," he said, adding he instructed police to take the dogs to check if a "detonating bomb, poison, guns or any other illicit substance" had been planted."I feel obligated to file a formal report when such things happen."More on this: Joho asks cops to check for 'bomb, poison, guns' after armed men comb his Nyali homeLawyer James Orengo said the National Super Alliance will stand by Joho's side regardless of threats from the government."We must stand with Joho. We will not allow Jubilee to stamp on him. We will do all within our might to protect Joho. At the police station it was pure propaganda," he said.Orengo, who is Siaya Senator, assured supporters that the coalition will win in August."We will deal with them. Mombasa, don't worry, we will win. Whoever touches Joho touches Raila and Kenya. We have a multitude of lawyers to protect Joho," he said.[VIDEO] We will storm police station if you arrest Joho, Raila tells NkaisseryAlso read: Roadblocks, heavy security await Joho at police station