President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday relaunched Mtongwe ferry and said Sh2 billion will be used to purchase two new ferries.Uhuru said the vessels from Turkey will be in the country by July.The head of state said the re-launch and additional ferries will ease pressure on Likoni ferry that serves nearly 300,000 people daily.&ldquo;It will also boost tourism at the South Coast especially Diani,&rdquo; he said.The channel witnessed one of the most deadly accidents in maritime history. In 1994, the MV Mtongwe ferry bound for the mainland capsised just 40 metres from the port, killing 272 of the 400 people on board. A report by a committee of inquiry said the ferry was overloaded.&ldquo;At least 30,000 people are expected to benefit from this ferry,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&ldquo;Residents, tourists and investors have been complaining over the ferry, but we believe this will encourage them to invest heavily at the South Coast.&rdquo; Uhuru further said a road from Miritini to Likoni through the port of Mombasa will be built to ease traffic. He said a feasibility phase has already started. In 2015, Abdalla Miraj and Peter Matangi moved to court to stop the procurement of the new ferries.The duo alleged that the process was flooded with irregularities and violated the procurement law.Uhuru also said the Dongo Kundu bridge is in its final stage of mapping and the foundation has already started. The re-opening of the channel will end the delays that have been experienced at the Likoni-ferry channel.The arrival of new ferries will see other two ferries moved from the Likoni to the Mtongwe channel. The Likoni channel is used by at least 30,000 people and 6,000 vehicles per day. It also links Kwale to the rest of the Coast region and serves as a gateway to neighbouring Tanzania.Kenya Ferry Service chairman Seif Kajembe said there are plans to expand both channels to accommodate many users. He said the Mtongwe channel will be expanded to accommodate vehicles, but at the moment, it will only serve commuters.The Kenya Ferry Services attributed the snarl-up at the Likoni channel to an increase in population in Mombasa. Last year, transport at the Likoni ferry channel turned into a nightmare for two weeks in September after two ferries were grounded.Commuters and motorists were forced to share the remaining three operational ferries, which were overworked during the rush hours.Some motorists were forced to abandon their vehicles and use public transport to avoid hours on the queue as they waited to board the ferry. Tourist vans were, however, excluded from the mess as they were allowed to board the ferry without queuing. The Kenya Ferry Services management blamed lack of spare parts in the country for the inconveniences.KFS managing director Bakari Gowa said MV Kwale broke its propeller blade while MV Likoni was leaking.He said the water damaged the control unit of the propeller system, whose parts can only be obtained from Germany.Gowa said the management ordered new parts and they expected operations to be back to normal.In July, vehicles were forced to queue for more than one kilometre after a ferry stalled on the ramp at the Likoni channel.The vessel, MV Likoni, experienced a mechanical problem while embarking on the ramp at the mainland.The ferry is among those acquired in 2012.