A story is told of a donkey that entered into a partnership with a fox for their mutual protection. They one day went out into the forest to hunt and had not proceeded far when they met a lion. The fox, seeing imminent danger, approached the lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the donkey if the lion would pledge his word not to harm the fox.Then, upon assuring the donkey that he would not be injured, the fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it. The lion, seeing that the donkey was secured, immediately clutched the fox, and attacked the donkey at his leisure.The story teaches us that it is not wise to trust your enemy as they may just turn against you. Others may be practicing the Sawi ideal, as explained in the book &lsquo;Peace Child&rsquo; called &ldquo;tuwi asonai man&rdquo; which means &ldquo;to fatten with friendship for unexpected slaughter.&rdquo;One may wonder where I am headed with this. It is all about the political unions that we are witnessing, especially amongst the opposition. Their show of unity is laced with mistrust and suspicion as we have witnessed over the plan to carry out joint nominations.As political parties prepare for nominations, the opposition appears to be walking into a landmine that may kill the National Super Alliance before it even takes off.Already, there is grumbling over the suggested plan to hold joint nominations as different parties in NASA seek to protect their regional vote baskets.In fact, this is what is likely to make NASA not agree on a single presidential flagbearer. Electoral nominations require that the flagbearers get nominated by individual members &ndash; at least 2,000 from at least 24 counties.That means NASA would have to have at minimum 48,000 members to nominate their flagbearers, which potentially raises major issues that nearly caused a stalemate at Narc in the 2002 election and PNU in 2007.The political landscape has become more regimented because of the strong legislation governing the political parties under the Registrar of Political Parties in addition to the strict legislation that was passed by Parliament on the IEBC timelines.Managing joint nominations or open competition amongst constituent parties, which can tear NASA apart, is a powder keg waiting to explode. All parties in the opposition alliance are focused on zoning their regions in what appears to be a way of protecting their interests.For instance, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has already branded Mombasa an ODM zone and appears uninterested in the NASA business. Two of his competitors &ndash; Senator Hassan Omar and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti &ndash; are in Wiper and have openly declared their opposition to the plan for joint nominations.With such zoning, it is clear that NASA will not and cannot speak in one voice in Mombasa and this is replicated elsewhere across the country. ANC is protecting Western Kenya as its zone, alongside Ford Kenya, and Wiper has been working to zone the Ukambani region as its own.But who is to benefit from this plan for joint nominations among the NASA principals? Any keen observer just needs to look at recent comments by Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi and realise the greatest beneficiary of NASA&rsquo;s joint nominations is Raila Odinga.Like the lion, Raila is using this opportunity to prepare to pounce on all his colleagues, whom history shows he has never had kind words for.And this is where NASA will get it wrong as the move will likely see a major fallout that will see the other principals bolt out of the alliance. The joint nominations concept is a landmine that NASA should avoid but they do not seem to have learnt from history.(The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda