 Women present themselves for elective positions only for them to be submerged after nominations, at a time when patriarchal politics should be a thing of the past. Had Hillary Clinton won the US presidency on November 8 last year, it would
have turned the tables on Kenyan politics. Regardless, hope is not lost. The Political Parties Act states that every party should
respect and promote gender equity and equality. Further, the amendment
Bill of the principal Act requires applicants for registration of a
political party to meet the constitutional threshold of the two-thirds gender
rule. The realisation
of this principle is not based on the woman representative seats, but in
the representation of both women and men in each elective post. After
nominations, it is envisioned the two-thirds gender balance will depict in the governor, Senate, parliamentary and ward reps races. The buck stops with the political parties in ensuring gender balance in candidates listed for nomination. Besides, members of a political party can also demand for equal representation in all posts, obliging respective parties to
comply. Before I present the existing models, let
me describe two contradictions. First, clause 28 of the Election Laws
(Amendment) Bill, 2016 amended section 25 of the Political
Parties Act, 2011, to provide fiscal incentives (15 per cent of the
Political Parties Fund) to political parties to assist in implementing
the two-thirds gender principle. Though motivational theorist would classify
provision of fiscal incentives as positive reinforcement, it is sarcastic how
stern measures couldn’t sail through for non-conformity but still becomes
illegal when appointments fail to meet the criterion. Second, this is the time many Kenyans and
I expect to hear the voice of women-based organisations, both governmental and
non-governmental, as well as civil society advocating gender rights in
elective posts. One would question whether citizens are adequately educated
on the National Values and Principles in Article 10 on equity, social justice,
inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of the
marginalised and the interconnection with the right to elect leaders both at
the national and county level? Or are we still focussing on ‘personalities’ that
relinquish our spirit for gender balance and women inclusivity in elective
position and afterwards pretend to push affirmative action? What are the models then? First, let’s acknowledge
vis-à-vis the 2013 general election, this year there is no single female
candidate who has declared interest in running for President. Focussing on the major
political parties, which have amalgamated diverse political parties, it’s easy
to predict non-compliance with two-thirds gender at the top level, a situation
which is not fluctuating anytime soon. However,
the narrative can change if political parties and the public at large show
more backing towards female aspirants standing for various posts. For instance,
just the other day, ODM openly declared their support for a female MP in Kibra.
Jubilee, too, endorsed Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana to vie vie for Senate post.That
aside, more of female support will absolutely drive the country towards achieving the two-thirds
gender balance and attainment of goal number five of the sustainable development goals on gender equality, and
empowering women and girls. Kama si Sasa, Ni
Sasa Hivi (If it is not now, it is right now), a slogan used in public forums calling
for immediate action plan is now desirable.
The timing is right. Regionally, and as per the campaign trail across the
country, women have and continue to declare their interest to vie for various
elective posts. If statistics were to go by, the number of women running for
elective posts in the August polls has tripled compared to 2013. Media reports
reveal that more women in counties such as Isiolo, Bomet, West Pokot,
just to sample a few, are in the race against their male counterparts to be the
next governors, senators, MPs and MCAs. The
aggressiveness reflected by women now requires backing by all
political parties, government, relevant players, their male counterparts and
citizens who are the main supporters of these political parties in realisation the gender rule. In my view, we don’t have to wait until is
too late for the discussion of gender balance to crop up. Men should swallow
their pride and stand up for two-thirds gender principle now. After all, the
question of how many female governors, deputy governors, senators, MPs and MCAs will come to haunt the advocates of the affirmative action, unless the
country gives adequate considerations to the principle of two-thirds. Finally, it is our right as Kenyans to vote and elect the right
leaders. Besides, it is our responsibility to vote and ensure the realisation of the two-third representation at the national level and county Level. It is time.  