Bandits are fleeing the Kerio Valley towards the Kenya-Uganda border following the deployment of the Kenya Defence Forces. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo have ordered officers in police stations along the border to ensure bandits do not cross it with illegal arms. “Those with illegal and unregistered guns must surrender them or else they will be dealt with as per the law,” Musiambo said. It is estimated that bandits and communities in Kerio Valley are holding more than 30,000 illegal small arms. Relative calm has returned to the region since the deployment of more than 2,000 security personnel. Bandits have killed 75 people in six month and displaced more than 30,000, mainly in Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and parts of West Pokot. Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi yesterday said they will visit areas affected by banditry to address peace meetings and help restore calm. He spoke to the Star on phone. Some leaders, including West Pokot Deputy Governor Titus Lotee, have, however, opposed the deployment of KDF. They say the Pokot community will be unfairly targeted in the security operation. Lotee said the deployment of the military will restore peace. “The military operation will only make the situation worse, instead of restoring peace. It will as well open room for the commission of atrocities against the residents,” he said. Lotee said Pokots have been portrayed as bandits yet they too are victims “There has been a misconception that West Pokot county has bandits, but to the contrary the region has so many victims of banditry,” he said. Sources say the bandits may have hid illegal guns in caves and some crossed over to Uganda and will return to use the arms when the security operation ends. But Musiambo said the security operation will go on. KDF is setting up six bases in Kerio Valley from where the security operation will be carried out. Unconfirmed reports indicate that President Uhuru Kenyatta will visit the region soon to address security meetings and launch government compensation for victims of banditry.      