Stop causing tension among the opposition with your comments on the NASA flagbearer, Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo has told his Kitui West counterpart.Francis Nyenze has called for Wiper leader Kalonzo to be given the presidential ticket or the party will walk out of NASA.&ldquo;If Kalonzo is not going to be the presidential candidate, there will be no NASA,&rdquo; the National Assembly minority leader said on Wednesday.Yesterday Midiwo said such remarks dishearten opposition supporters. He urged Nyenze to stop issuing ultimatums that are likely to irk supporters of other parties in NASA.&ldquo;Let Nyenze know that even politicians in ODM, ANC and Ford Kenya parties want their leaders to be the NASA flagbearer but have chosen to keep quiet to ensure the best principal flies the opposition flag,&rdquo; Midiwo said. He was speaking on Mayienga FMNyenze has issued a seven-day ultimatum to NASA to name Kalonzo flagbearer.The NASA principals are ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga, Kalonzo (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya).Midiwo said Nyenze&rsquo;s ultimatums are ruining Kalonzo&rsquo;s chances of being flagbearer.&ldquo;Opposition supporters are now questioning what the Wiper party is up to in NASA. The hardlines from leaders like Nyenze will make Kenyans never trust Wiper leadership,&rdquo; he said.Nyenze urged ODM to respect the MoU the two parties signed in the run-up to the March 4, 2013 election. According to the agreement, Raila was to serve a five-year term effective March 4, 2013, and hand the baton to Kalonzo this year.The argument from ODM is that Raila did not become President so the deal does not hold.On Wednesday, Mudavadi distanced himself from the Raila-Kalonzo deal, saying he was not a party to it.&ldquo;We want Nyenze to stop making opposition supporters to start portraying Kalonzo as a leader who can never be trusted in this country,&rdquo; Midiwo said.The National Assembly deputy minority leader asked Nyenze to let the 12-member technical committee tasked with picking the flagbearer do its job. Nyenze sits in NASA&rsquo;s powerful National Coordinating Committee. Midiwo said the technical committee has outlined a procedure for picking the flagbearer and urged leaders to follow it. &ldquo;Kalonzo cannot win the presidential election alone unless he gets support from the other three principals. We need to understand that Kenya is bigger than any [one person],&rdquo; he said. He called for calm among supporters.