Mandera leaders allied to Governor Ali Roba have urged the Garre Council of Elders and Senator Billow Kerrow to stop arm-twisting President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and the Jubilee Party into giving them direct nominations.Leaders coalescing around Kerrow, governor aspirant Noor Hassan, his running mate Abass Maalim and Senate hopeful Hassan Osman on Monday warned Uhuru, Ruto and JP leadership to recognise their line up for elective seats. The line-up was selected through negotiated democracy as the de facto Jubilee candidates, or they will defect to NASA. They want the aspirants in their list be given direct nominations.The council came up with the line-up to replace all the elected leaders in the county, including Roba, Kerrow and woman representative Fathia Mahbub. Kerrow agreed to step down, but Roba's camp rejected the council's proposal."We challenge our would-be opponents to come on board and go for party primaries with us . We will support them if they defeat us and we will not move to any other party," Roba said."If you know you have 90 per cent of the support as you claim on camera in Nairobi, you should not even worry about party primaries because you have the support on the ground. Why should you fear nominations?"MPs Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera West), Adan Mohamed (Mandera North) and Mohamed Haji (Banisa) dismissed the Garre elders, elected leaders and aspirants in the contested list.They said the elders could have been bribed to favour certain leaders. The MPs accused the elders of perpetuating divisive and isolation politics that could bring back the inter-clan clashes."We are saying that it [negotiated democracy] is not sustainable. We have rejected the elders, who have turned out to be dictators," Mahamud said."We are an all-inclusive team and we want Mandera residents to be respected and be allowed to elect their leaders, just like other Kenyans. There is no democracy unique to Mandera."There is nothing like negotiated democracy. What we are saying is that the council of elders are all over in the country what is so special about Mandera?"."We are saying that it [negotiated democracy] is not sustainable, we have refused they [elders] have turned out to be dictators," Mahamud said."We are all inclusive team we want residents of Mandera to be respected and be allowed to elect their leaders the way other Kenyans are electing their leaders and there is no democracy unique to Mandera.""There is nothing like negotiated democracy. What we are saying is that the council of elders are all over in the country what is so special about Mandera?".Roba said the council of elders and the leaders have created a confusion by trying to give the JP ultimatum to give them direct nominations.We applaud the position of Uhuru and Ruto that across the countrythat there will be free and fair party primaries.The governor said his camp did not go to the presidency to request for the favour to be considered. He said they are only seeking the support of the residents.Roba said the leaders threatening to decamp to other parties have lost touch with the electorate."What is happening in other counties like in Central should happen in Mandera because we are Wollongong the same party constitution," Roba said."We challenge them to prove us wrong through the nominations and stop intimidating the political party and dragging names of respectable individuals like the president, his deputy and institutions like the National Intelligence Service and others in trying to say the intelligence given about the support on the ground."