The Bomet governor race is gathering momentum as August 8 draws nearer.It is turning out to be a three-horse race, with incumbent Governor Isaac Rutto as the front runner. Through his Chama cha Mashinani, Governor Rutto is not only causing ripples in Bomet but also across the South Rift. The party has rekindled a semblance of the Kipsigis renaissance. This is the first time the South Rift has a homegrown party since Independence.CCM AND DP RUTO AND GOVERNOR RUTTO RIVALRYCCM&rsquo;s first victory was in the Nyangores ward by-election, in which it wrestled the seat from Jubilee in February last year. Rutto humiliated the ruling party, given CCM had just been formed. The win emboldened him to put all his efforts into CCM and in the process, upsetting his once bosom friend, Deputy President William Ruto.Since then, the two have engaged in a public war of words, with their supporters engaging in shouting matches.The latest was on January 20 when the Deputy President renewed his attacks on Rutto, accusing him of being an agent of the opposition. He vowed to send the vocal governor home in the August election, saying his days were numbered for criticising Jubilee.According to the 2009 Census, Bomet has a population of 724,186 people, but this number is estimated to have increased to one million. It has five constituencies.In 2013, Bomet, which was hived out of the then expansive Kericho, was solely behind UhuRuto&rsquo;s Jubilee Coalition. That has since changed due to regional supremacy rivalry between the DP Ruto-led camp and that of Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Governor Rutto.DWINDLING JUBILEE FORTUNESJubilee&rsquo;s fortunes are dwindling at a break-neck speed, leaving CCM to have a field day in expanding its tents and strengthening its stakes in readiness for August 8.Already, Governor Rutto&rsquo;s outfit has a huge following in all the county&rsquo;s constituencies except for Bomet East, held by Bernard Bett, a close ally of the DP. Other than the incumbent other front runners are National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso and former Konoin MP Julius Kones. Embattled county Deputy Governor Stephen Mutai is also in the race.In July last year, Rutto cracked the whip on Mutai making good his threat to deny him key privileges. Mutai&rsquo;s official vehicle, a Toyota Prado, which like other county vehicles is fuelled at Highway Petrol Station, was denied fuel at the pump on what the attendants said &lsquo;were orders from above&rsquo;. Their relationship has since deteriorated and that&rsquo;s why Mutai is angling to unseat his boss. Laboso, Kones and Mutai are in Jubilee. So who among them will clinch the party&rsquo;s ticket?As aforementioned, Deputy Ruto has sworn to annihilate the governor politically, but the county boss is defiant.Of the three JP candidates, the DP believes Laboso is Rutto&rsquo;s antidote, and appears to front her candidacy. Kones is taking a stab at the county top job for the second time, having lost to Rutto in 2013. Even with the DP&rsquo;s involvement in the county politics, Rutto is confident of retaining his seat based on his track record.JOYCE LABOSO FACTORAlthough Laboso has climbed the ladder in her political life by default, her quest for Bomet governor seat could be a miscalculation.Laboso, a former Linguistics lecturer at Egerton University, came to political limelight in 2008 when she was elected Sotik MP, to replace her sister Lorna, who died in a plane crash. Being an ODM nominee and with support from area politicians led by Governor Rutto, she beat 11 other candidates, garnering 23,880 votes. Her closest challenger was retired Brigadier Alexander Sitienei, a former aide to President Daniel Moi, who got 13,843 votes. Rutto and other local politicians helped her financially and materially to vie for the seat.She is married to Edwin Abonyo, some leaders have been using her marriage to Kisumu to fight her politically. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion, for instance, says Laboso should stand in Kisumu, where she is married. These sentiments have been echoed by Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma during a thanksgiving prayer service for Governor Rutto who returned from South Africa where he had gone for treatment last year.In her response Laboso said, &ldquo;Ranguma cannot advise the people of Bomet on whom [should be] their governor. He is busy traversing counties to give unsolicited advice yet his ground is so shaky. The Deputy Speaker says she should be judged by her performance and not where her husband comes from.Last year, she accused her rivals of using &ldquo;dirty and outdated&rdquo; tactics by saying she is unqualified because she is married to an &ldquo;outsider&rdquo;.It is imperative to note that, Sossion is a close ally of Rutto and backs his reelection bid.Some say the fact that Laboso won the Sotik seat twice in a row does not imply that she can grab the governor&rsquo;s seat that easily. The Kipsigis are comfortable with her being an MP but don&rsquo;t support her governor bid. But Laboso is confident that she will win the seat, especially with the backing of the second in command, DP Ruto.RUTTO&rsquo;S TRACK RECORDRutto&rsquo;s confidence is informed by the endorsement he has since received from the people of Bomet. He says his development record speaks for itself.For example, as the rest of the country suffers over the doctors&rsquo; strike, which is now on its third month, the people of Bpmet are thankful that their medics are still working. Two years ago, the county partnered with development partners in adding value to farm produce with a view to improving the living standards of the people. Bread made from Sweet potatoes is one of the county produce exported to Europe.In partnership with the Kenya Red Cross Society, the county last year initiated the Sigor Water Supply Project under Bomet Integrated Development Programme. The project was intended to address significant social challenges of the residents in Sigor and Chebunyo Wards in Chepalungu and Bomet East subcounties on access to clean water for both domestic and irrigation purposesSuch programmes have reduced poverty levels in the county.