Barely five months to the election, governors are grappling with a new wave of rebellion orchestrated by MPs, MCAs and Senators, which has sparked supremacy war in counties.Incomplete projects, most of them launched by the county chiefs in pomp and colour, have given the opponents perfect ammunition to fight the incumbents. With some surviving attempted impeachments in the county assemblies, the MPs and senators have become the new thorn in the flesh for governors in Nyanza and Western.Legislators eyeing governor seats have launched onslaught in respective counties in an attempt to discredit the governors as they prepare to launch their bids. They accused the governors of sidelining local leaders in development projects and challenged to explain how billions allocated to the county governments had been spent. Political analyst Jared Okello attribute growing opposition to governors to failure to have them held accountable by the county assemblies where impeachment motions have flopped despite claims of mismanagement of funds. He said MPs accused the governor of sidelining them even after they demanded for proper consultations on the suitable site for construction of the first public university in the county. But the governor read politics in the demonstrations against them which they said are aimed at undermining them politically. In Siaya, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and Siaya Senator James Orengo are giving Governor Cornel Rasanga sleepless nights. Some of the incomplete projects in the county include solar lights, roads, dispensaries and milk processing plant. Gumbo said Rasanga has failed to initiate projects which can change the lives of residents and should be voted out.Six MPs who unanimously supported Rasanga&rsquo;s bid are of divided opinion ahead of the August 8 poll. Only MPs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Oburu are supporting Rasanga for election. They have publicly endorsed Rasanga re-election. MPs Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem), David Ochieng (Ugenya) and Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) are fiercely criticising Rasanga for running down the county. Ochanda has however differed with the governor over ideologies in running county affairs. They faulted Rasanga for failing to fulfil projects he promised the electorates during 2013 campaigns. Midiwo accused the governor of oiling the wheels of corruption at the expense of service delivery to the county residents. Ochieng broke ranks with Rasanga for failing to fulfil the promise he made to fund Ugenya TTC at a tune of Sh10million. In Homa Bay, Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, who supported Governor Cyprian Awiti, wants to unseat him over massive corruption allegations at his door step and poor service delivery to county residents. He said Awiti has failed the people of Homa Bay, and engages in rhetoric and public gimmicks instead of initiating development.Magwanga has launched a well-structured campaign strategy which allies of Awiti termed as a threat to his re-election. He will also face businessmen Sammy Wakiaga and Enos Bolo.The second term MP said there is no visible development despite the billions of shillings being channelled to counties. But Governor Awiti defended himself and saying he has initiated a range of projects in health, education, water, roads, infrastructure and other areas.He has also lost support of Homa Bay county MP Gladys Wanga, Karachuonyo MP James Rege, Senator Moses Kajwang, Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo and Ndhiwa MP Augustino Neto and Kasipul Kabondo MP Silvance Osele. Awiti only enjoys support of MPs John Mbadi (Suba) and Opondo Kaluma (Homa Bay Town) while Rangwe MP George Oner has not declared his support for any candidate.Busia Governor Sospter Ojaamong is facing a stiff competition from Funyula MP Paul Otuoma who has accused him of corruption and lack developments across the county.Otuoma has cited numerous anomalies in county procurement process and stalled projects. But Ojaamong has denied the allegations terming them as political witch-hunt.&ldquo;All this you&rsquo;re hearing are mere propaganda aimed at smearing my name as the election draws closer,&rdquo; he said.The Funyula MP enjoys massive support of Senator Amos Wako who has endorsed him publicly for the governor seat. Some of the incomplete projects include roads, water, health, fertiliser plant, substandard stadium and Mulwanda cotton ginnery.Ojaamong will also face former Kisumu county Secretary Humphrey Nakitare, Dan Barasa and Lucas Meso among others. Governor Jack Ranguma is also facing criticism from Nyando MP Fred Outa and Senator Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o over corruption and poorly done roads and incomplete projects. Outa said a number roads and water projects across the county are incomplete despite money allocated for such projects. Last month, Outa differed with Ranguma over tractors for rice farmers at Ahero rice irrigation scheme. Outa, who wants to replace Nyong&rsquo;o at the senate as the Senator seek to unseat Ranguma. The two leaders who have teamed up ahead of the poll further accused Ranguma of doing little in terms of development. Nyong&rsquo;o has accused Ranguma for failing to take action against those engaged in corruption.In Vihiga, Emuhaya MP Wilber Otichilo launched onslaught on Governor Moses Akaranga whom he wants to unseat for corruption, incomplete projects and poor service delivery. &ldquo;Roads are done in a shoddy manner and the roads are already impassable. Contractors are still struggling to be paid since the 2014/15 financial year. There is (no visible) flagship project the county government has realised,&rdquo; he said. Otichillo, who is the main rival of Akaranga, said he will emulate his performance in constituency to other constituencies in the county. Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu has also told Akaranga to come clean on graft allegations levelled against his administration.