A day after President Uhuru Kenyatta cancelled his trip to Upper Eastern, it emerged that a tour of Western announced by State House on Monday was also dropped from his schedule. The cancellation was a result of a request by the Jubilee Party, which is currently seeking to verify documents presented by hopefuls for nomination. State House yesterday said new dates for the county tours, which would involve commissioning and inspection of national government projects, will be announced in the coming days. “This is the last week provided by the IEBC for political parties to submit their nomination lists. President Kenyatta wants hopefuls to focus on this important democratic process,” State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said. “The President is keen to ensure all processes are fulfilled as required by guidelines provided by the necessary institutions mandated to ensure credible nominations are carried out.” Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju confirmed that the ongoing preparations for nominations caused the cancellation. He said the party secretariat had made a “polite request” to Uhuru to cancel the trips to enable it to finalise the verification of aspirants’ nomination papers. Tuju said the exercise, to be completed on Thursday, is crucial, hence the decision to suspend the President’s trips. He said this will enable aspirants who would have wished to accompany the President on his trip to do so, once they are done with verification of their papers. The statements appeared to quell speculation that the President had cancelled the trips because the ground is unfavourable, especially in relation to the Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties. On Monday, State House Esipisu cited “unavoidable circumstances” as the reason the President would not go to Meru and Tharaka Nithi as earlier announced. The trip to Upper Eastern was to take place yesterday and today, while the President would have visited Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Busia and Kakamega counties at the weekend. The President has been making trips to different parts of the country, especially those perceived to be opposition strongholds, as he prepares for the August 8 election. Uhuru has used the opportunity to highlight the government’s achievements, while popularising JP. There have been concerns in Meru and Tharaka Nithi that the Jubilee administration has not fulfilled its promises.