Deputy President William Ruto has been caught up in a political cross-fire between the Pokots and Marakwets.They accuse him of favouring one side when he made decisions to end banditry in Kerio Valley.Senator John Lonyangapuo criticised Ruto&rsquo;s order to deploy more than 2,400 police reservists. He said the reservists were hired from one community and will take sides in the conflict.&ldquo;It is like hiring a militia group to target one community. The DP has failed to involve the Pokot community in efforts to resolve the conflict in Kerio Valley,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said.KPR HIRING HASTENEDHe faulted the hastened hiring of the KPR officers, saying they were not vetted.&ldquo;They were hired on a Friday and given uniforms, followed by guns the next Monday. That is a risky move,&rdquo; the senator said. He added, &ldquo;The Pokot community has buried so many people as a result of this conflict. We should not be treated differently by the government that is supposed to work for all Kenyans.&rdquo;The senator said the Pokot have been extensively affected by banditry and the government should not act as if the community is an aggressor in the chaos.He said the shoot-to-kill order issued by the DP may harm one community.&ldquo;Throghout the DP&rsquo;s tour the Pokot community and its leaders were sidelined and yet we thought the visit was aimed at preaching peace,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said.However, MPs from Elgeyo Marakwet, including Bowen Kangogo, have defended the DP and instead accused the senator of using the banditry problem for political mileage.&ldquo;We have never heard Lonyangapuo condemning acts of banditry in Kerio Valley, yet now he rushes to criticise the DP. He should shut up and let the government take charge and stop the suffering of our people&rdquo;, Kangogo said.Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen have defended the DP against claims of bias in the conflict. Tolgos said they would hold more peace forums in Kerio Valley to support the government&rsquo;s efforts to end banditry.RED CROSS RESUMES OPERATIONThe Red Cross has resumed full operations in parts of Baringo after a meeting between Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi and Secretary General Abbas Gullet. More than 30,000 people affected by drought and insecurity will benefit from Red Cross humanitarian services.The Red Cross had withdrawn from the region due to insecurity affecting its staff.Last month, two people, including a teacher, were shot dead in the clashes in Baringo county. The deaths were reported on the same day Ruto announced he will visit the troubled Baringo and Kerio Valley areas.The teacher was shot dead at Chepkesin in Baringo North subcounty by suspected Pokot bandits who continue to terrorise the region.400 FLEE HOMESAnother person was shot dead in Loruk, where more than 400 residents have fled after their homes were torched and livestock was stolen.Baringo North police boss Ndiema Chemongis said tension is high as the bandits have taken over some parts of the subcounty and are stealing livestock. Chemongis said the Loruk, Chemoe, Kalabata, Kagir and Yatia areas have been badly hit. Murkomen said Ruto, Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet will visit Arror, Tot and Liter to commission an expanded police response team.