Kongowea traders has accused leaders, whom they did not name, of trying to evict those allocated stalls in the refurbished retail centre.The Sh400 million centre started operation on March 10. It will eventually accommodate 1,500 traders, including relocated hawkers. About 550 traders operate there now.On Wednesday, market committee chairperson Biasha Wanjama said some leaders have been harassing traders and ordering those allocated stalls to vacate. Then they bring in others not in the list of beneficiaries, she said. &ldquo;If you are a leader and you claim to love wananchi, why do you remove them from the centre?&rdquo; Wanjama asked. She spoke during Nyali MP Hezron Awiti&rsquo;s tour of the market. &ldquo;We thank the MP for bringing President Uhuru, who ordered the refurbishment of this market. But now we are experiencing other problems,&rdquo; Wanjama said.Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho oversaw the relocation of 500 traders to the new centre. The market has been at the centre of a dispute between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta.But acting Trade executive Tawfiq Balala on Friday said Wanjama is &ldquo;playing politics&rdquo;.&ldquo;She needs to be honest and tell us who the leaders are so we can take action. But if she plays politics, we cannot accept. We will not even listen to her,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.&ldquo;I know the bona fide traders. These are poor people who we need to serve. If someone uses their position against them, I need to know,&rdquo; Balala said.On Wednesday, MP Awiti told the market leaders to sit down and come up with a solution to their problems, while he looks for resources from other quarters. &ldquo;I will board a flight to Nairobi, camp at President Kenyatta&rsquo;s office, even if it means spending nights there. Unitl I come up with a solution for this market,&rdquo; he said.Traders complained of the pace at which the county is making stalls for the first and second floors. Currently, only the ground floor is occupied.Awiti said, &ldquo;The delay is because this was an Uhuru initiative.&rdquo; Awiti alluded to the political fight between Uhuru and Joho last year. Both sought credit for completion of the market.On March 9, executive Balala told the Star the stalls in the first and second floors would be completed by the end of March.He said 1,500 traders will be allocated stalls. &ldquo;We are relocating hawkers inside the market&rsquo;s feeder roads into this building,&rdquo; Balala said then.&ldquo;The 550 will occupy the ground floor. The next batch will occupy the first floor, while the last batch will occupy the second floor,&rdquo; he said.Market security chairman Philip Mueke and secretary Veronica Wachira asked Awiti to ensure lights are installed in the market.&ldquo;We use our phone torches when the market opens at 3am because there are no lights. By 10am, our batteries are low and we depend on our phones for business,&rdquo; Wachira said.Awiti said those are part of his petition to the President. &ldquo;I will ask him to bring in the NYS to do the job here.&rdquo;