The doctors' strike will continue until the government and the union sign a return-to-work agreement, the medics said on Wednesday. They said all contentious issues in the 2013 CBA and recognition agreement have been fully agreed on.This was during the press conference at the Kenya Medical Association Centre after a day-long meeting. "We recommend that the parties get together one last time, conclude the return to work agreement, and enter into an agreement to end the strike," the doctors said in a statement signed by 19 specialists. Jacqueline Kitulu, Kenya Medical Association chairperson, said the doctors are committed to the mediation process to end the 95-day long strike. "There is a lot of goodwill. The union has declared its full commitment in the process," Kitulu said."A few clauses of the major issues have been discussed back and forth but are fully agreed on by both parties and should be signed." The union leaders said the details of the CBA, including the monetary aspects, will be made public after the signing.On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Council of Governors ordered the termination of the negotiations.This was after the doctors declined to call off the strike despite the government's offer of Sh14.5 billion. The government withdrew the offer of risk allowances it had given the medics and ordered them to resume work or face disciplinary action. "I can assure you, if the ongoing talks spearheaded by religious leaders fail, we will take action. We will sort you. This is blackmail," Uhuru said.He issued the directive at the fourth devolution conference in Naivasha. The Sh600 million deal, which included Sh40 basic salary increase and other additional allowances, was struck following mediation by a team of religious leaders. On Wednesday, Kenyatta National Hospital sacked 12 doctors for taking part in the ongoing nationwide. Chief executive Lily Koros said the fired medics are part of the 60 that were warned in December against participating in the illegal strike. "The remaining 48 are still undergoing disciplinary processes and a decision will be made on them soon," Koros said. Read: KNH sacks 12 doctors, 48 facing disciplinary action over strikeAlso read: Inside the striking doctors&rsquo; 2013 collective bargaining agreement