There was national outcry following reports of bullying in one of the country s most prestigious national schools. Though bullying is commonplace, this caught many by surprise. The surprising part was not the bullying but the calibre of the school that perpetuated the heinous crime. I m sure if it came from one of the low cadre schools it would not have received the attention it did.The photo of bloodstained uniforms that went viral on social media pricked the nation s conscience. It is unbelievable that bullying of such magnitude could go on in a school that is every Std Eight boy s dream. People will be forgiven if they pass harsh judgment on Alliance because the school has disappointingly let us down. Bullying is the last crime one would associate Alliance with.It is not the bullying that shocked the nation so much as its enormity and magnitude. This was not your usual monolisation no. This was Mungiki-style cruelty meted out on innocent and vulnerable students. That students were woken up to go lie in the graveyard of the school s founders is itself cultic and torturous. How now?Most of us were bullied by older students in high school. However, the kind heard of at Alliance is a whole new level of bullying. It was barbaric and almost bordered on terrorism.The accounts given by the victims were chilling and heart-rending. How could prefects the guys entrusted with the highest responsibility in the school turn against their fellow students with such cruelty?I do not wish to demonise a school of Alliance s standing, but I am tempted to conclude that there could be devil worship involved pulling the strings from a convenient hideout. Students generally do not dislike their colleagues with such vitriol, unless other forces are involved.The fact that this bullying was approved by the administration is more worrying. How could a school that prides itself on national excellence stoop so low?The Alliance High School has hosted numerous national leadership workshops. It is, therefore, ironic and laughable that a school that churns out cutting edge leaders could be abetting crimes against humanity.This is not something that, as a country, we can just wish away. We cannot bury our heads in the sand and hope the situation fixes itself. No amount of denials by the old boys will sweep the problem away. Alliance is the epitome of the country s academic excellence. When Alliance coughs others catch the flu. When Alliance ails others rot.I still believe Alliance is the school to beat. The brand should not suffer condemnation just because of rogue leaders. The brand is larger than a few wayward prefects. A reputation that has taken 91 long years to build should not be discredited because of the actions of a handful of self-seeking teenagers.The Alliance incident reminds me of the story of the adulterous woman recorded in the Bible. No school is innocent of the crime of bullying. None. Unlike the adulterous woman, they have not been caught red-handed.We can condemn Alliance, but there is a log in our eyes. If we say that there is no bullying in our schools we shall be lying. Well, I am not writing to condemn Alliance. Silence, they say, is worse than approval.We can all learn from the experience. If we wait to learn from our experiences, it will be too painful. Learning from other people s experiences is less painful.Let us take some quiet moments and reflect on the systems in our schools. Could an Alliance incident be happening in our schools without our knowledge? Have we empowered our student governments to be effective leaders or rogue leaders? Are our students assertive enough to stop bullying by fellow students? Ashford teaches in Kiambu county.