Tourism stakeholders on Friday welcomed the lifting of the long-standing travel advisory on Lamu and Manda Islands by the UK's Foreign and Commonwealth Office, saying the move will revive the dilapidated economy. The UK, however, warned its citizens in the amended travel advisory on Thursday against travelling by road. The foreign and commonwealth office no longer advise against travel to Lamu Island and Manda. If you travel to Lamu Island or Manda, you should do so by air and not by road," read the statement.Heritage Hotels chief executive Mohammed Hersi commended the UK for its gesture, and urged the US to also lift the non-essential travel advisory on Lamu. It has been one long painful wait for Lamu. Well, let us now pick the pieces and promote Lamu once again. The island was never affected by terror attacks hence the advisory was misplaced," said Hersi. The Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers regional executive director for Coast Sam Ikwaye said the decision will help restore Lamu's status as a Coastal tourist hub. Ikwaye said the decision was long overdue, citing the decline in cases of terrorist attacks in Lamu. The decision will be a major boost to the tourism sector as such advisories had hurt business due to negative effects. We remain optimistic," said Ikwaye. Lamu County has previously has in the past had a series of attacks targeted on non-Muslims in what the police boss said is a mission to divide Kenyans along religious lines. More than 100 people were killed in a series of attacks in Mpeketoni area, within the County by the militants in 2014. The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office said UK citizens are free to visit any national park, reserve and wildlife conservancies in the country. Among tourist destinations that the UK authorities advised its citizens to freely visit are the Aberdare National Park, Amboseli, Laikipia, Lake Nakuru, Masai Mara, Meru and Mount Kenya. UK tourists are also allowed to sample attractions in Samburu, Shimba Hills, Tsavo as well as book reservations at beach resorts in Mombasa, Malindi, Kilifi, Watamu, and Diani. The UK is concerned about threats from terrorism, especially from extremists linked to militia al Shabaab. Kenya's Defence Forces are part of the African Union Mission in Somalia the bedrock of al Shabaab operations having been the first state to launch on onslaught on OCtober 16, 2011. Tourism CS Najib Balala in January asked the US government to lift the travel advisory it issued to its citizens against visiting Kenya. Balala said such advisories were unjustified, citing the reduction of terrorist attacks in the region.