My second favorite television show is called How It&rsquo;s Made. My first, without apologies, is Scandal. For those of you who are &lsquo;geek-averse&rsquo;, How It&rsquo;s Made is a documentary that shows how common everyday items are manufactured. It starts off by showing each of the disparate elements and their source. It then proceeds to show the various processing stages and how the elements are combined to produce the final item, how they are packaged and shipped off to various stores, where you can then purchase them. In all the number of years I have watched this show, there is a segment that is never broadcasted. That is costing each respective element, to determine its final shelf price. However, just because it is never relayed does not mean that it never happens. Recently, a tier of the nation expressed a legitimate outrage. They had been conned into buying property off the plan. Many had believed in what today has turned out to be a lie; a mirage; a pipe dream. Simple Homes has made people&rsquo;s lives not so simple after all. It has instead become the disease it sought to cure. As this misfortune unfolded, so did our self-righteous criticism. The media called the victims &lsquo;unsuspecting&rsquo; Kenyans. Tweeps called them gullible, naive and foolish.Since we are all in the mood of questioning the Simple Homes victims judgement, allow me to question yours, because with every five year cycle, you become a Simple Homes type victim. Allow me to illustrate. Midas was a Greek King who did a good deed. And for that, Dionysus the God of wine, granted him a wish. Midas asked that whatever he touched would turn to gold. The wish was granted. Everything that Midas touched turned into gold including the food that he picked up to eat. He soon started regretting his wish. His daughter, upon seeing her dad&rsquo;s dismay, threw her arms around him for comfort. She too turned into gold. A desperate Midas went to the river to weep. His tears turned the river&rsquo;s sand yellow. To date it is called fool&rsquo;s gold. During the election season, politicians sell to you fool&rsquo;s gold. Like Simple Homes, the fool&rsquo;s gold is beautifully packaged, graphically displayed, enticingly advertised and colorfully printed on glossy paper to appeal to all your senses. The packaging is designed to make you THINK LESS but FEEL MORE. And when you feel more, you respond POSITIVELY. Simple Homes calls it a prospectus; politicians call it a manifesto. Same difference. And just as they hope, you buy it hook, line and sinker with the unwavering expectation that the election promises will be fulfilled and that resultantly, your life will improve. At this point, you have essentially become hooked as a political marketing consumer. Critics continue to sermonize that political parties should be about ideologies. WRONG!! Politics has evolved. It is no longer about long-term visions; neither is it about convictions on principles and morals. It is about winning government regardless of the ideological cost. This has seen a change in strategy that resonates with voters. And that strategy is brand management. Branding has become the currency of connections. Simple Homes used a &lsquo;celeb&rsquo; as their poster brand to connect with consumers. Political parties use their party leaders to connect with political consumers. Then comes post elections and the once hopeful and optimistic voters wake up to broken promises and shock. Just like Simple Homes, phone calls to the once easily accessible politicians go unanswered; twitter accounts, websites and Facebook pages are deactivated; residences are relocated to suburban gated communities; and sadly, there is no refund on the deposit (read vote) that you paid. Pseudo experts then coin terminologies such as Score Card. This is a bourgeois construct where we evaluate those in office in two ways: (a) not living up to their promises; or (b) being accused of (a). However, for as long as we continue to have a post evaluation, a.k.a. Score Card, we will forever be disillusioned. For unlike in the television show, there is no element of costing on or behind the scenes. Enter the impossibility of economic calculation problem (Mises, 1920), because at the point the promises are made, none of the political parties own any factors of production.You see, in a market economy, prices reflect the supply and demand of factors of production. This enables the market to effectively and rationally allocate resources. It therefore becomes impossible for the political parties or the State to quantify how much of labor, capital or time they will allocate to build five stadia, introduce a modern rail infrastructure, expand the road networks or even increase the number of health facilities. They also have no way of knowing which resource is the most effective to use. Should they use concrete or wood; steel or aluminum; human labor or robots? So when we are interrogating their Score Card, what is our yardstick when we had no idea what the final product was going to look like?; Or the quality or standard of fixtures and fittings?; Or the length of time it was supposed to take? What about their relevance, efficiency, effectiveness, impact or sustainability?If our appraisal is merely based on the quantity of promises realized, then this becomes a very cosmetic evaluation, a mere academic exercise and not one of achievements but of hyperboles. Without pricing, cost and disclosure on resource mobilization strategies at the point of sale, these achievements cannot stand the test of scrutiny. However, should we have the gall to demand accountability when we failed in our due diligence?For your sanity, the next time a Simple Homes type sells you a property off plan, or a politician comes around hawking their party manifesto, should you choose to buy it, go ahead with the full knowledge that it is fool&rsquo;s gold that can be fudged with or just plain broken, either because the seller cannot deliver or does not want to. Olivia Pope: &ldquo;It is handled!&rdquo;The writer is a Political Economist.