The little-known Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) was established to promote and uphold fairness in public procurement through judicious and impartial adjudication of matters arising from disputed processes. That fairness was and remains about protecting the competitiveness of the procuring entities, bidders and, more fundamentally, the public interest. Public procurement processes take unnecessarily long and are often mired in controversy. They remain costly and delicately woven in red tape rather than focussing on the quality and cost-efficiency of the output. With many complaints emanating from the procuring entities, bidders and the public, the PPARB became a natural mitigation measure that never was. Being autonomous and made up of six members nominated by various bodies as prescribed in Regulation 68 ( 1 ) (a) of the Act and three other members appointed by the CS, the entity enjoys a high level of regulatory powers. With an average 40 to 70 major dispute proceedings every year, PPARB remains the last resort in the high voltage stakes that have come to characterise the multi-billion-shilling government procurements. But the PPARB has become most disappointing, to say the least. It has become a toll station keen to clear and award undeserving bidders purportedly to save time and articulate the public interest. The determinations of the PPARB over the past few months, from IEBC to CBK tenders, have unmasked it as an entity either over-stepping its mandate — at best or at worst — being in sharp contravention of its mandate. Kenyans have been treated to an unfamiliar show whenever the PPARB has purported to award the tenders to certain tenderers in clear abandon of its role of strengthening and streamlining the procurement process. By its very nature, PPARB is expected to address itself more to the quality and authenticity of the process rather than being an executioner in determining whom among the disputing procurement parties ought to be awarded. PPARB ought to examine and develop critical appraisals and base its findings on either upholding the procurement process as fair and/or offer sufficient grounds on why the process fails to meet the legal and other administrative thresholds. It thereafter naturally follows that the Public Procurement Oversight Authority (PPOA) will uphold and/or annul the process accordingly – in which case the process will be restarted. Secretary General, Cofek