Gor Mahia handed Kariobangi Shark a rude welcome into the Sportpesa Premier League as they beat them 3-1 yesterday.First half goals from Haron Shakava, a simple tap-in from new signing Jean Baptiste Mugirizaneza and a late effort from Jacques Tuyisenge were enough to help Gor get the measure of the highly-rated debutantes, who got their consolation through Matthew Odongo.Sharks began their first ever match in the top flight on the front-foot and former K Ogalo man Ibrahim Kitawi showed a little composure when he twice had the sight of goal. His name would have gone down in the Kariobangi Sharks history as the first man ever to score Premier League goal for the club.But as it was, he fluffed his lines, allowing the record league winners to settle into the match. And within 17 minutes, they had conceded. Geoffrey Walusimbi sent in a high corner, whose flight Sharks shot-stopper Robert Mboya misjudged, allowing Shakava to net it into the unguarded goal. Sharks played with heart but lacked the wherewithal to penetrate the vastly experienced K Ogallo backline. Timothy Otieno, back from his loan stint and Walusimbi gave Michael Bodo, a baptism of fire down Sharks right and it was from there, that the veteran Ugandan left-footer sent in a tricky cross that Mboya could only parry into the path of Mugirizaneza, who gleefully side-footed the ball home.Sensing a first competitive defeat in charge of Sharks was stalking him, coach William Muluya shuffled his pack, hauling off Bodo and sending Monday Osborne to plug the right back hole with Sven Yidah, taking up his midfield holding role.Still, it was Gor, who carried a goal scoring threat with Karim Nizigiyima spectacular volley cleared off the line with Mboya beaten. With nothing to lose, Sharks brought on the attacking cavalry with Michael Usabwa and Odongo coming on for the anonymous speedster Rodgers Omondi and Kitawi. The avalanche of goals continued for the second day of the opening weekend of the 2017 SportPesa Premier League as Mathare United recovered from a goal down to edge Thika United 3-2.Having watched the dismantling that top flight new boys Nzoia United had handed champions Tusker, another goal glut was expected in the first match yesterday. Thika took the lead through Christopher Oruchum but they were pegged back by efforts from George Owino and Ronald Okoth. A howler from Wycliffe Kasaya gave Thika a way back into the match but David Owino clinched the winner with an hour left to play. There were also victories for Posts Rangers, who pipped new boys Zoo Kericho 1-0 as Chemelil Sugar took all three points from their trip to Sony Sugar, whom they defeated 2-0.