Legend has it that the Turkana tribe arrived in northwestern Kenya from Karamojong in northeastern Uganda in search of a lost bull centuries ago. Whether they found the unruly bull or not is neither here nor there. They went on with grazing their livestock on the shrubs of the vast desert that is their motherland. When the colonialists came, they did not care to set foot in Turkana land. Why go to the bowels of the dry and harsh territory when there are more productive swathes of land elsewhere? There was therefore no interaction between the Turkana and the White men. After Independence, 54 years ago, the Turkana hoped that at long last the black man-led government would remember them and start treating them like the rest of Kenya. They were wrong. It was not until the advent of devolution that the Turkana began to partake of the national cake, thanks to the 2010 Constitution. But in 2012, God remembered His long-suffering creatures. He gave them oil. That was the economic turning point of this Nilotic tribe. When the black gold was discovered, political leaders started remembering where Turkana is. Prior to this, they all suffered from collective amnesia. Since then political leaders have been landing and taking off from Turkana at the speed of locusts. But President Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent visit will forever be edged on the minds of many a Turkana. That was not Uhuru’s maiden visit to the land where his father spent seven years in prison after the British rulers jailed him for leading the Mau Mau against colonialism. He was there in 2013 hunting for votes and he got them. But the governor’s seat eluded him. Stung by the reality that his 2013 fortunes could be rolled back, the President went on a tirade, abusing a popularly elected Turkana leader without flinching. By calling Governor Josephat Nanok stupid and silly, among other unprintables, the head of state distinguished himself as a man devoid of decorum. What he did, as has Deputy President William Rutto and a coterie of party honchos, only helped to cement the fact that he briefly shamed the presidency, a symbol of national unity. By spewing unpresidential vitriol, Uhuru displayed to the world the disrespect he has for the people of Turkana who gave him a considerable number of MPs in 2013. That he thinks the world will not dissolve whether or not Turkanas vote for him, Uhuru just beamed to the whole world his uncaring attitude and hubris. As the leader of Turkana, Nanok has a right to question why his people will hold the short end of the stick in the oil spoils following the discovery of 750 million barrels of oil in Lokichar. Uhuru is the right person to provide a solution because he declined to assent to the Bill that gives the community 10 per cent of the oil revenue. So why is he running away from his constitutional responsibilities, yet he is the one pushing the National Assembly and the Senate to reduce the share of oil revenues from 10 per cent to five? Nanok should not relent until the government agrees to his demands. The Turkana should never again accept to be marginalised, especially now that their Creator has come to their rescue after eons of outright neglect. If the government thinks that it will gag Nanok by hurling abuse at him for speaking on behalf of his people, then it should think again. Nanok should pressurise the government until it relents, otherwise the oil will be used to continue to suppress his people. The Turkana have taken flak for many years. It’s time they lived like human beings. It is inhuman to deny them this inalienable right. The world over, countries that neglect the cries of their citizens, especially where oil and other natural resources are concerned, have nothing but regret to show for their pigheadedness.