The murder of four men whose bodies were found in a car abandoned in Gitaru last Wednesday may have been another execution-style killing by the police. This emerged yesterday after one of the victims was identified as a 51-year-old medical doctor who was battling officers from Kinyago AP camp over his son’s death. He was identified as David Chege. His son was killed a day before Chege’s body was found in the car at Gitaru. The other three bodies have not been identified. Chege’s family said Alex Ngugi, 24, was the medic’s firstborn son. He was allegedly shot dead by AP officers last Monday. Police said Ngugi was a notorious criminal and he was found with a toy pistol after the shooting. But the family says his was a case of mistaken identity. They said the toy gun was planted on him. Chege stormed the police camp and demanded information on the shooting. A relative said police lobbed tear gas canisters at Chege and his friends to drive them out of the AP camp, where they were protesting against the killing. Yesterday, Chege’s family urged the DCI at Kikuyu police station to investigate the Kinyago AP officers over the murders of Chege and Ngugi. They said Chege was killed after he threatened to sue the police. The murder has close similarities with the June 23, 2015, murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani, client Josphat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. Mwenda, a boda boda operator in Mlolongo, was killed together with his lawyer after he allegedly declined to withdraw a case in which he had sued an AP officer for threatening to kill him. Police investigations revealed that the three were picked up by AP officers, whom they are said to have clashed with while driving from Mavoko lawcourts. Their mutilated bodies were found in Oldonyo Sabuk River, a week later. Four AP officers based at the Syokimau AP camp have been arrested and charged with the murders. Last week Kabete police chief Joseph Ongaya said investigators suspect the men were killed elsewhere and dumped in his area of command. Read: Shock as four bodies found locked inside Probox in Gitaru