Kenya&rsquo;s envoy to Pakistan Julius Bitok has pulled out of the Uasin Gishu governor race.He said he will concentrate on his ambassadorial job. Bitok vied for the seat in 2013, but lost to Governor Jackson Mandago in the URP nominations. He was later appointed to represent the country in Pakistan.Last year, he hinted he may run in this year&rsquo;s election, but the Star has established he has disbanded his campaign team. Yesterday, Bitok could not be reached in Pakistan for comment, but his aide said he is out of the race.&ldquo;He has made it clear to us that he will not vie this time, but will instead concentrate on his job,&rdquo; campaign coordinator David Melly said.Bitok also wants to expand his Ambassador Bitok Foundation, which mentors and supports more than 1,000 youth from poor families to complete their education.Bitok&rsquo;s withdrawal leaves Mandago to battle it out for the Jubilee Party ticket with businessman Bundotich Buzeki and three others. The others seeking the JP ticket are Charles Kigen, Felix Butit and Edward Serem.Mandago said he is not scared of Buzeki and his other rivals to thinkto quitting Jubilee and join Kanu. &ldquo;In 2013, I joined politics when I was so green and poor yet I faced off with more scary opponents then. Now I&rsquo;m experienced and stable and newcomers cannot make me have sleepless nights,&rdquo; the governor said.He said his rivals were spreading propaganda that he would ditch Jubilee because of the pressure caused by Buzeki&rsquo;s entry into the race. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m in Jubilee to stay and ready to face any opponent,&rdquo; Mandago said.He spoke at Torochmoi health centre on Monday, where he also urged the Kalenjins to stick with Jubilee.The governor said sticking with JP is the community&rsquo;s only hope of ascending to power in 2022, through Deputy President William Ruto. Buzeki&rsquo;s decision to vie for governor has sparked off hot politics in the county. There have been claims Buzeki was being sponsored by Ruto&rsquo;s camp to rival Mandago.But Buzeki has dismissed the claims as propaganda to keep him away from the county top seat. &ldquo;I have succeeded in business on my own and I cannot decide to vie for such a position on behalf of someone else. I will sell my agenda and let others interested do so then we meet at the ballot,&rdquo; he said.Buzeki has said he is not competing with anyone and his main interest is to deal with the problems that face residents.Huruma MCA Peter Chomba said communities in the area will back a governor who is ready to unite them.