 The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter, argued Winston Churchill. It looks as if persistent efforts to deconstruct, repudiate or disprove this Churchillian averment will simply come to a miserably abject and absolute zero!For look at us, Kenyans at our politically vainglorious best! We boast one of the best Constitutions in the world: One that was essentially supposed to herald a shift to political modernity and position us as an emerging democracy. We are proud that we have braved, survived and valiantly overhauled a brutally dark past that was dominated by autocracy and authoritarianism. We were supposed to have solemnly sworn never again! against such egregious and grave violations against us as a nation and as a people.Yet, as we hurtle inexorably into another election in August, one must ask questions such as: Whither democracy ? Whither freedom? What about human dignity? What about equality? What of inclusion? Regrettably, hence, this submission: These will not be the issues that define or influence these elections. Not for us as Kenyans or our so-called friends from the international community all we seem determined to have is an election and then we can accept and move on , as popularly framed by Fourth President Uhuru Kenyatta and forgive and forget as we were so famously advised by founding President Jomo Kenyatta. Or is it so that we can fuata nyayo (follow the footsteps) as ordered by President Daniel Moi, or engage as a working nation as prescribed by President Mwai Kibaki? When do we stop, and insist that a democratic election is only constituted when some procedural and substantive preconditions are achieved? On the procedural front, how democratic will these elections be when the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission is as spectacularly unprepared as it is now, less than six months to August? How can we claim to be in a democratic election when voters and electoral registers remain mired with suspicion of tampering and adulteration? And while some, for example in the Diaspora, are disenfranchised almost wholesale?How dare we imagine polls can be democratic, when one competitor holds firm sway of the police and has unfettered control of the security apparatus? And, on the other hand, when large swathes of geographies in, for instance, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Pokot, Samburu, Laikipia and virtually all of Northeastern, including the Tana River area and the Coast region, are in the thrall of permanent lawlessness and persistent and pernicious insecurity?How are we to trust electoral outcome announcements when citizens, with the will and capacity to monitor and track all the polling centre results, are absolutely denied these liberties? At another level when electoral environment issues are as dire, if not more? The persistent threats to press freedom and the freedom of expression, for example, mean that questioning for accountability during the elections will be a completely frozen space. Just, for instance, imagine what critical reporting will mean to expected revenue from government advertising.Perhaps most worrisome is that these elections are not framed to provide the content for democratic contestation and debate. Has anyone located any debate or deliberation about the fulfillment or, more accurately, lack thereof the constitutional and electoral promises of those who will be competing in the forthcoming elections?Leading media houses have attempted to highlight key electoral issues that should define and determine the August poll. This week, the Star, provided an analysis on UhuRuto s performance, with Prof Herman Manyora rating the regime generously at 40 per cent. In short, if the promise by UhuRuto was to provide Kenyans with a full hand, they have only provided two fingers! But even this analysis must be contested for its generosity using a copy of the 2013 Jubilee Coalition manifesto as the marking scheme.Where in the national debate does one see or hear of, for instance, the political ramifications and consequences of the doctors strike, the lecturers strike, the threats against them by the state for exercising their constitutional rights, persistent insecurity and the exclusion of women through violation of constitutional provisions and guarantees? Where in this debate do you hear discussions about threats to media freedom, the shrinking space for civil society and the fettered enjoyment and controlled exercise of civil and political rights, rampant corruption, endemic poverty and lack of livelihoods, the skyrocketing national debt, and discrimination or exclusion from state employment on the basis of ethnicity and religion? Why is there no conversation at all about the exorbitant perks and benefits that only seem to accrue to our gluttonous legislators? Kenya s democratic ecosystem is as parched, arid and austere as the relentless famine, which is currently afflicting various parts of our country. Like the famine, this deficit and deficiency has been due to political neglect and based on deliberate political tomfoolery. The August 8 poll will not cure or remedy this. It will take a conscious effort by every Kenyan to deliberately act beyond casting votes to correct this aberration. However, does this consciousness exist let alone abound?Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.