MPs have lashed at a light-touch petition by a Nairobi lawyer seeking the removal of Auditor General Edward Ouko terming it a 'fishing expedition." Members of the Finance, Planning and Trade Committee launched a stinging attack on the petition filed by Emmanuel Mwagambo as they got down to business on day one. The session was however punctuated by heated exchanges among MPs after a strong delegation of Luo MPs occasionally fired salvos at the petitioner. The MPs often veered off order and traded tribal tantrums often putting to question their commitment in dispensing off the petition. Most of the MPs thronged the committee room number 9 as 'friends of the committee- non-members who attend sessions of another committee as allowed under the standing orders. Ill-prepared Mwagambo was put in the hot seat as MPs sought to glean enough evidence required to necessitate the removal of an independent office holder. They told Mwagambo that the threshold for the removal of Ouko from office is higher and that he must pull all the stops to submit sufficient evidence to support the petition. The jam-packed session attended by over 20 ODM MPs-majority from Ouko's Nyanza backyard-among them Deputy Minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo and nominated MP Oburu Oginga. The Luo MPs sat strategically and often hurled harsh words at the petitioner whom they termed a 'gun for hire," working at the behest of shadowy individuals keen to sack Ouko. "We are quite concerned that every Jaluo holding any constitutional office is being targeted, yet everyday in this House we seem to be approving names from two communities only," said Oburu. "This is a gun for hire, we have no business prosecuting this petition without evidence," said Nyando MP Fred Outa. 'It is now more clearer that the petitioner is in a fishing expedition," said Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. Deputy Minority Whip Chris Wamalwa warned that the petitioner had failed to support the allegations he raised against Ouko. "These are flimsy allegations meant to intimidate the Auditor general from performing his work. This is not an ordinary petition, the threshold is very high," he said. Midiwo warned the committee against proceeding with the petition when the petitioner has failed to proof his allegations saying that amounts to abuse of the parliamentary process. "The petition should be based on evidence for members to examine piece by piece,' he said. But the petitioner, who sat for over three hours prosecuting his case, told MPs that some of the documents needed may not be at his disposal as he has no access to the auditor general's office. "I am working on limited documents, I undertake that i will compile documents in my possession. I will not try even attempt at all to look for documents which are not even in my possession," Mwagambo said. Looking visibly agitated by some members who repeatedly appeared to dismiss his petition as a fishing expedition, the petitioner asked MPs to use their powers to get the relevant documents from Ouko's office. "I am not obligate, this committee has constitutional authority to get the documents," he said even teasing members to consider a scenario where he would have snubbed the sitting. "I cant sit here when aspersions are being cast on me, i am being vilified as if I am the one being accused, today has been as sad day for me to say the least," Mwagambo said. Committee chairman Benjamin Lang'at ruled that Mwagambo must present additional evidence to the committee by today noon(Wednesday) given the strict timeliness set for the petition. The petition was committed to the committee on February 15 and was given 14 days to look into the merits of the petition and advise the House if the grounds raised are well disclosed to ask the president to form a tribunal.      