A week after Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho accused Deputy Governor Hazel Katana of trying to &ldquo;steal&rdquo; county furniture, the two are now fighting over office space.Katana has complained that county secretary Francis Thoya has allocated her office to the Subcounty Administration department.Last week, she was accused of trying to cart away furniture from her public office to use it in her private office. Katana has denied the allegation, saying the furniture was broken and the executive had issued orders that it be taken to the county yard for disposal.Katana, who is in Naivasha for the Fourth Devolution Conference, yesterday said her 10 staff members were being evicted from office.&ldquo;They called me in the morning, saying they were being evicted. Another team was being told to occupy the office, but I sought to know what procedure was being followed,&rdquo; she said.Speaking to the Star on the phone, Katana said she has been running the office at her own expense as the county refused to allocate her money.&ldquo;The office does not have running tap water, internet services, tea or coffee for my staff and guests. I have been buying all these using my money,&rdquo; she said.Thoya has, however, accused Katana of playing politics with the office. &ldquo;She has been playing victim for sympathy since she defected to Jubilee. As a matter of fact, that office belongs to the Lands department, but she was allocated some space after she requested to move out of the governor&rsquo;s office at Prima Binns,&rdquo; he said.POLITICAL MILEAGEThoya said Katana is looking for political mileage and has been using the office as her private property to campaign for the Jubilee Party.&ldquo;Just the other day, we found campaign material for the Jubilee Party. That is a public office and should be used to serve the public, not selfish interests,&rdquo; he said.Katana, who defected to Jubilee on January 28, citing frustration from the governor and his cronies, has declared she will run for Mombasa senator on the Jubilee ticket.&ldquo;They only found my cards with the name Senator Hazel Katana on them. But even ODM does not have an office in Mombasa and they [executive] have been operating from the same public offices,&rdquo; she said.Katana said she only uses the office once a week. &ldquo;I only go there on Mondays for prayers with bishops and my staff. Are prayers what they call campaigns?&rdquo; she said.Katana fell out with Joho in March last year, when she was accused of betrayal. She was seen to have been campaigning for Jubilee candidate Philip Charo in the Malindi by-election, while her boss was campaigning for Willy Mtengo.Political pundits say Katana has bitten the hand that feeds her. Thoya said, &ldquo;We have no issues with the DG and as a matter of fact, she is still using the county government resources &ndash; the office, two vehicles and staff.&rdquo;He said the office is big enough to accommodate some more county staff and that is why they allocated some of the space to the Subcounty Administration department.