Kenya is barely four months away from what appears to be our most fiercely contested presidential and general election yet. Emotions are running high and ethnic tensions are rising by the day. Leaders are hurling insults at one another with alarming alacrity.This begs the question: Are we ready for the election? Why does it appear as if the opposition and the ruling party are bound by a conspiracy to delay the election? Is the IEBC confident of holding a free and fair election?In recent days there have been some disturbing signals from our political class indicating that they are not in support of the August election.Parliamentarians and MCAs have staked a claim for back pay for what they say is a shortened term, on account of the constitutional provision to hold a general election in the first week of August 2017. Their recent actions indicate that there is absolutely no political goodwill in holding the next election.It is instructive to note that the drafters and framers of the Constitution made this provision in the utmost good faith.The rationale was to deny the incumbent President the opportunity to use elections as secret weapons to devastate opponents. Retired President Moi was adept at calling early elections or postponing the same until the prevailing political situation favoured him or his party.Could there be a covert conspiracy between both sides of the political divide to circumvent this constitutional provision?Our parliamentarians and MCAs have been known to differ on every other subject save for increasing their remuneration. An extension of term amounts to a commensurate increase! Could this be yet another subtle plot to achieve a desired end?A cursory look at the opposition indicates they are not ready, at least for a presidential election.NASA, which was touted as the perfect team to send Jubilee home after a single term is staggering as if in a drunken stupor, despite valiant attempts at public shows of unity. The issue of the presidential flagbearer has come to haunt them.The technical committee mandated to work out a formula for deciding the flagbearer is deadlocked. They have now resorted to perpetually frustrating the IEBC through a multiplicity of legal suits and a plethora of threats and ultimatums, lending credence to the narrative that the opposition intends to delay the election, or at the minimum, force a coalition government after a failed one.There are ominous signs that the Jubilee Party is going into the primaries in disorganised fashion. The unity clearly visible in 2013 in TNA and URP is lacking. Nairobi, Malindi and Murang&rsquo;a aspirants have already failed to agree on who is to conduct their elections and all attempts have been met with violence.Many of Jubilee&rsquo;s erstwhile die-hard aspirants upcountry have moved to other parties like Maendeleo Chap Chap and PNU for fear that the nominations will not be free and fair.In Imenti South, home of Jubilee co-founder and county chairman Kiraitu Murungi, the current MP, Kathuri Murungi, has opted to run as an independent candidate. This surely cannot be construed as a vote of confidence.The recently constituted IEBC is a major concern. Despite warnings by Justice Johann Kriegler that we should never hold elections without having an independent electoral team in place two years prior, we disbanded ours and concocted another a mere six months before Election Day.It is now becoming increasingly clear that our current IEBC may not be competent or ready to conduct the election.The actions and behaviour of the current chairman do not inspire confidence and have been below par as he fumbles and mumbles. An altercation between him and the Political Parties Liaison Committee has led to their filing a petition for his removal.This coupled with the tight electoral timelines does not augur well. Tragedy is staring us in the eye.