An estimated 10,000 acres were set ablaze on Wednesday in the Laikipia Nature Conservancy. Invading herders are suspected.It was still raging at 5pm yesterday.Two lodges at the ranch owned by Italian-born Kukki Gallman were gutted. It hosts foreign and domestic tourists.Despite the presence of KDF deployed on March 17 and security personnel, the conflict deepens and invading bandits and armed pastoralists are wreaking havoc.Livestock and wildlife are killed, ranches and property destroyed, residents attacked. One owner was killed.On Thursday afternoon, the UK goernment issued an email alert, &ldquo;Kenya travel advice&rdquo;. Though not an official advisory against travel to Laikipia, it is a warning.&ldquo;You should check the latest situation at your destination ahead of travel to the region,&rdquo; it says.&ldquo;Latest update: Laikipia has seen numerous invasions by cattle herders onto privately held ranches and conservancies, in some cases leading to violence and arson; security forces are seeking to enforce private property rights.&rdquo;The fire is believed to have been started by illegal grazers, evicted from private ranches and disarmed. They invaded in search of water and pasture.Yesterday, Gallman said the fire started at 2pm. She said it spread fast and the ranch workers were unable to contain it due to strong winds.Nyahururu police boss Joseph Chepkwony said, &ldquo;We are still pursuing these people as they have caused a lot of destruction.&rdquo; Gallman said herders had been spotted in the area, which is why it is believed that they started it.&ldquo;We spotted invaders and we called police. We later saw smoke billowing from the forest,&rdquo; Gallman said.&ldquo;It has spread to an extent that we cannot contain it. We are doing all we can, but it is impossible to contain it,&rdquo; she told the Star on the phone.Gallman accused a senior politician from the region of fueling conflict between the ranchers and the herders. &ldquo;We want the government to investigate this politician, believed to have sponsored herdsmen to start the fire. The matter has turned political, since politicians are now inciting communities to attack the ranches,&rdquo; she said.On March 5, Sosian ranch co-owner Tristan Voorspuy was killed while inspecting his lodges.Proprietor of Kifuko ranch in Rumuruti, Maria Dodds, says private ranchers are in danger. &ldquo;We fear they are not only targeting our ranches, but our lives too. This is something the government must take seriously. Protection of lives and property is guaranteed by the Constitution.&rdquo;The fire is believed to be retaliation after hundreds of cattle were allegedly killed by security officers in the conservancy in an eviction move. Officials deny cattle are killed.Herders also claim the land is their ancestral home and they have a right to graze. They drive their animals into private land in protest.Recently, invaders burnt down lodges at Suiyan, Kifuku and Mugie ranches, forcing owners to close.On February 16, herders burnt down several lodges at Suiyan ranch in Laikipia North subcounty.Two weeks later, several lodges were burnt at Kifuku ranch in Rumuruti. A week later, Mugie ranch, was raided by the illegal herders and several lodges were set ablaze.Police have been deployed to guard the border, others are fighting the fire.The government has categorised the region as &ldquo;disturbed and dangerous&rdquo;.