In case you haven't heard of it, Crystal Rivers mall and gated Community is a “Live, Work and Play” development by Safaricom Staff Pension Scheme. Crystal Rivers is not just another development. It's a rewarding and engaging buzz-filled fun lifestyle experience for mom, dad and kids. The mall is conveniently located at the busy Mombasa Road, just 1.2 Kms past the Mombasa/ Kitengela Roads interchange, Athi River, Machakos County. The site is only 10 minutes drive from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and 25km from the City Centre of Nairobi. Crystal Rivers offers you a chance to own something truly unique, a brilliant combination of luxury and convenience on a spacious 25.5 acre parcel fronting Mombasa Road and only minutes away from JKIA Airport. At Crystal Rivers, there is something for everyone - for mum, for dad, for the children and for businesses. Crystal Rivers brings people together. For fun, for business and for life.   The Mall Crystal Rivers is the biggest mall on Mombasa road, bringing together unsurpassed retail variety, quality and convenience. It is set at the road frontage with easy ingress and egress off the road. The Mall will offer 3 levels of a premium shopping experience with more than 100 local and international stores including; Others include; The Mall has been designed with security in mind and will offer 3 secured entrances onto the main retail level with adequate parking for 700 vehicles. The Food Court Area will offer variety to food lovers and will look out onto an immaculately landscaped lifestyle covered outdoor space that also serves as the main entrance from the residential side. The restaurants / coffee shop/ sports bar will have decks that face out onto Mombasa Road Business Centre and Entertainment Zone, The Office space, Conference/ Exhibition facility and the entertainment zone comprising a Cinema, Games Zone and Casino will all be located on the top level Going Green, The Mall will also take advantage of green principles such as rain water harvesting, a bio digester and natural lighting through the skylights on second floor. The design is sure to create a commercial synergy in the context of its environment, with the goal to excite and energize the spirit of the local shopper and to complement its surroundings.  The Residential Section The residential Section on 16 Acres comprises of: - 138 units of 3 and 4 Bedrooms Maisonettes - 260 units of 3 bedroom apartments The Gated Community is tucked away at the rear, off Mombasa Road, with easy access to the Mall, offering a secure and private homely environment. The units are designed with the users comfort in mind. From sizes and the layouts, to modern finishes and fittings. The drive ways are all paved in concrete blocks for durability and ease of maintenance. Much thought was put in finding optimal balance between "wants and needs", quality, craftsmanship, choice of design all of which are important considerations, in a home/investment.  Additional Features   The Crystal Rivers residence Cash-back offer There is also an exciting offer available to cash buyers only. The first 30 homebuyers at Crystal Rivers residences get a Sh50,000 cash back guarantee. The only condition for the homebuyer is that he/she has to pay the full deposit for the home of their choice - 3/4 bedroom townhouse or 3 bedroom apartment. The Sh50,000 cash-back will be given through a cheque within 7 working days. For a chance to 'Live The Buzz' at Crystal Rivers, simply SMS the word 'BUZZ' to 40515 for free.  