Champions Kenya Prisons men&rsquo;s volleyball team are the latest withdrawal from the opening leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league, starting today at the Kamukunji grounds in Nyeri.The new development brings to four, the number of teams that have given the event a wide berth citing various reasons. Other teams which will not be part of the action are local women&rsquo;s champions Kenya Pipeline and Nairobi Water teams (men and Women). Prisons, who will be the only Kenyan team to the March 17-27 African Club Championship in Tunis, Tunisia started residential training at the Safaricom Indoor Arena on Wednesday.Kenya Pipeline are in nonresidential indoor training ahead of the next month&rsquo;s women&rsquo;s version of the event. Prisons make a comeback to the Africa showpiece, having missed last year&rsquo;s event. Team captain, Ibrahim Odour, believes the early preparations they have undergone will reflect in their performance.&ldquo;Compared to the previous outings, we have had good preparation in this particular one. Really, it is upon us to return the favour to the management by recording good performance. The players are all psyched up and we are glad to have middle blocker Timony Kimutai and left attacker, Josphat Kirwa in the 22-man provisional squad,&rdquo; he said. He continued: &ldquo;The event brings together the top African teams and we are aware of the stiff competition I that awaits us. However, we are equally psyched up and we hope we will stage a good fight as it was the case in 2011 when we won bronze medal,&rdquo; noted the experienced national team and beach player. The two&mdash;Kimutai and Kirwa recently passed out at the Prisons Staff Training College. With the Prisons and Pipeline pulling out of the event, the locals have been denied the chance to watch Prisons play 2015 champions General Service Unit, with Pipeline coming up against local nemesis Prisons. The two sides have always staged a competitive tie with all the previous encounters going to the tie breaker.Prisons are likely to miss the services of sensational setter Jane Wacu who is set to feature in the KTN&rsquo;s Ultimate Challenge competition which starts off tomorrow.In the absence of Pipeline and Nairobi Water, the women&rsquo;s teams will attract Mt. Kenya University, Prisons and Kenya Commercial Bank.In the men&rsquo;s fixtures today, Kenya Defence Force play league returnee Forest Rangers, MKU take on Co-op Bank, Vihiga County confront AP with Kenya Ports Authority facing Western Prisons.KPA crosswords with AP in their second match of the day as the bankers take on Vihiga County, Rangers battle MKU, KDF play Nairobi Prisons with former champions GSU wrapping up the day&rsquo;s fixtures against Western Prison. At the same time, Nairobi Water women&rsquo;s team coach Joseph Waiganjo has refuted claims that he has been fired as coach. Earlier reports had indicated he was relieved off his duties and replaced by Patrick Owino.