A few weeks ago, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officers raided the Homa Bay county offices to initiate lifestyle audits of some of the public servants in that county. Some officers immediately disappeared into thin air when they heard of the presence of the sleuths. Others who were caught unawares, led the sleuths to multiple properties worth millions of shillings put up without any bank loans, and obviously financed from corrupt deals or with money taken directly from the county coffers. Not too long ago, in Kisumu county, following some "comedy of error in a theatre of the absurd," a chief officer was discovered to possess, within his newly built home, nicknamed "Fort Jesus" by the common folks, eight new top of the range vehicles, including a brand new range rover. True or false, the villagers narrated how a man who was struggling to make it in life only three years ago, now had a brand new Mercedes Benz as a personal car, and another one for his wife. He had also metamorphosed into a petroleum transporter with three tankers roaring up and down the Mombasa-Busia highway. As they say in common parlance, he had become "something else."Only one or two years after the advent of devolution, a Luo musician composed some lyrics that continue to excite the passion in vernacular radio stations whenever it is played. In bars and entertainment places, revellers can hardly stick to their seats when this song is played. Yet, metaphorically, its message is very sad. In Dholuo (the language of the Luo people, which literally means "the Luo mouth"), it goes something like this, "Raila okelo kaonti wayako, kaonti wayako, Agwambo okelo kaonti wayako" then it lists, in refrain, all the heroes of the Second Liberation and their fellow travellers. Translated literally, it means: "Raila has brought the county for us to exploit, Agwambo has brought the county for us to scavenge".In my campaign to be the governor of Kisumu, I have been beseeched by the incumbent "to stay up there in Nairobi and leave us alone to run this "little" government down here." For me, the county government is not a "little thing": It is the key to unlock the development in the countryside out of Nairobi. The annual budget of Kisumu county is definitely bigger than that of the whole nation of St Kitts and Nevis, which has a seat in the UN. It is our Nairobi-centred view of development that has perpetuated uneven economic growth and the underdevelopment of our economy.To correct this historical wrong, the framers of our Constitution, after many years of painful struggle, created two levels of government: county and national, SEPARATE BUT INTERDEPENDENT. Nowhere in our Constitution is it said that these two levels of government are junior and senior, inferior and superior, to be run by incompetent people and competent people respectively. No. They are both governments properly so-called, with division of functions as enshrined in Schedule Four of the Constitution, and financed by the taxpayer from the same exchequer. They must both be subjected to the highest standards of good governance, including the fight against corruption. They must both be led by the best, the brightest and the most public spirited men and women at best, and not incompetents and thieves at worst.That is why I applaud the recent action by the EACC officers in Homa Bay; it must be repeated in all counties with the speed of lightning. It must not be left hanging as a trial balloon undertaken to make an impression. Corruption and bad governance must be rooted out in the counties now, and not allowed to develop tap roots. This is the time to cut the fledgling tap roots, otherwise we shall repeat what has happened at the national level, where you are taken as a fool when you don't "eat where you work." Few who don't do this, especially the veterans of the Second Liberation, are viewed by the fellows with whom they served in government as "having wasted their time."I remember when we were in the Narc government, a colleague one day asked me, hardly one year after being in office, "How much I had prepared myself for the future?" The question puzzled me. I thought he had noticed something strange about me! I simply said I was okay, and somehow killed the conversation right there. It was only much later that I understood what he meant. He became much more affluent than I was! The rest, as they say, is now history.EACC chairman and retired archbishop Eliud Wabukala and his team will be remembered if they instill the fear of hell in all those serving in the counties through these lifestyle audits. The audits must bite and they must be real. Kenyans must see properties repossessed and sold in the interest of the counties so as to recover the billions of shillings that have gone down the drain through phoney tenders and roads that were never constructed. EACC officers must not allow themselves to be bribed s to cover up the cases through sloppy court cases, where judges and lawyers become complicit in the cover up game. The Assets Recovery Authority must also move with speed to get the data from the EACC as soon as the swoops are made so that stones are turned before they are left unturned. This must be serious business, not business as usual.Counties are meant to be governments of the people. They should identify themselves with the people and not deify themselves above and beyond the people. This is why I am strongly opposed to this monarchical tendency among county governors of calling themselves His Excellency and their wives First Ladies. What is there to be excellent about in a countryside where jiggers harass the people all day and bed bugs keep them awake all night? What is there to be First Lady for, when women wake up at 1am in the morning to fetch water three kilometres away from their homes, and expectant mothers sleep three on the same bed in ramshackle wards? As governor, I will abolish the titles HE and First Lady. Mr Governor is enough and Madam will suffice. It is because of these monarchical tendencies that people strive to live beyond their means, hence engage in corruption.I have known Archbishop Wabukala for a long time. He is a very humble man, sincerely God fearing. We would like him to guide his officers to approach their jobs as a mission to eradicate corruption in our nation on behalf of the Kenyan people. The retired Archbishop has led a modest and happy life. That is what we all long for: To be happy. But we cannot be happy when we make others miserable as a cost of our being happy. It is not right. It is not right that others must demonstrate and be teargassed by the police before we pay attention to their genuine grievances. It is not right. All this comes about when we are already guilty of doing something wrong. And this something wrong is usually linked to corruption. If we don't stop corruption in the counties, we are likely to see continuous upheavals in the county governments, which will make a mockery of the goals of devolution. Let the charade stop.The EACC, please pursue lifestyle audits with resoluteness and achieve tangible results.