Five months to the polls, NASA leaders in Kisii and Nyamira have dismissed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent project launches as campaign gimmicks. He suddenly arrives and launches roads that won’t be completed for years, they say. They have also accused Uhuru of trying to instil fear of the opposition among voters. This comes after the President’s two-day tour of the two counties ending Wednesday. NASA leaders, including Governors John Nyagarama and James Ongwae snubbed the President. Chris Bichage, seeking the ODM ticket for the Nyaribari Chache MP, on Thursday said the tour was about reelection, not helping people. “The road launch by the President is nothing but a gimmick,” he said. It’s illogical to initiate projects a few months before election, he said, asking where Uhuru has been all along. “The machines are there to be seen. No work is done. They will be moved from one point to another to deceive residents construction has started.” Residents too said construction has not begun. “Uhuru has wasted four years without doing anything,” Bichage said. He said Kisii and Nyamira residents have decided to vote for NASA and nothing will change that, “not even the projects launched by Uhuru”. Bobasi MP hopeful Lucas Mogoa said Kisiis are clever and cannot be cheated by launching projects that will be unfinished for many years. “The President should know he will not change the mind of Kisii and Nyamira people by launching projects. The people are for change,” he said. “He’ll also have a rough time because he must explain why his government has failed to fight rampant graft.” Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire on Thursday criticised Uhuru for reigniting debate on the 2007-08 PEV and blaming ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Uhuru is inciting Kisiis to cause fear and entrenching hatred as we head to election, a matter too dangerous to bear. Consider his latest outbursts, alarming statements of division and negative politics,” he said in a statement. South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya accused Uhuru of usurping powers of other government branches. He said the President wants to perform Parliament’s role of budgeting and appropriating resources. “He is killing Parliament. We have a new Constitution and he is reminding us of Nyayo era misrule,” he told the Star on the phone on Thursday. However, JP leaders say the region is no longer Raila’s stronghold. Nyamira JP secretary Joash Nyamoko and Kisii counterpart Samuel Nyangeso on Thursday said JP has made major inroads. “The tour had a major impact. The reception was overwhelming, clearly indicating the landscape has shifted,” Nyamoko said. Elected leaders kept off because they have failed to deliver, he said. “Voters can’t wait to send them home.” “Jubilee has been boosted by goodies the President has been dishing out, including 400km roads. We are 50-50 with ODM,”he said. In 2013, Raila got 358,421 votes, Uhuru 149,667. Roads to be upgraded to bitumen include the Nyamira-Igonga-Nyabioto and feeders Nyamatutu-Igonga-Riana-Iyabe-Chisano in Bonchari constituency. Others are the Kebuku-Nyangusu-Nyamache-Nyacheki, Omoringamu-Kenyenya-Ibench and Nyansiongo-Raitigo roads.