Medium-sized Family Bank said yesterday it has invested heavily in strengthening its anti-money laundering processes and systems following a lapse that led to exit of nine of its managers. The managers were first suspended in December 2015 before being sacked for allowing large cash transactions, largely linked to the Sh791 million National Youth Service scam, without following the due process.&ldquo;Perhaps, we now have some of the tightest controls as far as detecting money laundering is concerned&hellip; it gave us an opportunity to improve our processes and systems,&rdquo; bank chairman Wilfred Kiboro said. &ldquo;Our employees are all going through a rigorous AML (Anti-Money Laundering) training to equip them with necessary knowledge and skills.&rdquo;Kiboro said the turbulence the SMEs-leaning lender faced last year, just like other tier two and three lender, provided a learning ground for future sustainable growth. The lender survived a malicious social media attack that threatened a run on its deposits mid-November.&ldquo;Yes, we did go through a very difficult period but it was also an opportunity and a learning lesson for us. We overcame the odds, we have weathered the storms and demonstrated surprising resilience and few banks have ever endured that,&rdquo; Kiboro said. &ldquo;We have really strengthened our corporate governance across the board to ensure that nothing goes wrong, particularly from the lending perspective.&rdquo;He spoke when the lender announced net profit for 12 months through December fell by 82.21 per cent year-on-year, largely on increased loan loss provisions and one-off Sh380 million staff rationalisation cost.The lender's net earnings dropped to Sh352.52 million from Sh1.98 billion it posted for the full-year period ended December 2015. Family Bank's loan defaults doubled, rising 99.43 per cent to Sh7.02 billion from Sh3.52 billion a year earlier on a tough operating environment that slowed down its clients. This resulted in a 299.93 per cent per cent growth in loan loss provisions to Sh847.37 million from Sh211.88 million previously.&ldquo;A one-off cost of nearly Sh400 million relating to staff restructuring exercise, a slowdown in lending and branch expansion also contributed to the decline,&rdquo; the lender said in a statement.The bank last November weathered a malicious social media attacks claiming it was on brink of collapse following investigations on large transactions linked to the National Youth Service scandal at one of its branches in Nairobi.&ldquo;We did take a hit on our bottom-line arising from the turbulence we faced last year,&rdquo; managing director David Thuku said. &ldquo;The sustained social media attacks which led to significant withdrawals took a further toll on our profitability.&rdquo;The social media attacks happened against the backdrop of &ldquo;flight to tier one banks" from tier two and three lenders. This followed shock collapse of Dubai (August 2015), Imperial (October 2016) and Chase(April 2016), hit the bank's deposits mobilisation efforts hard.Family's customer deposits consequently contracted by more than a third, falling 33.98 per cent to Sh41.39 billion in 2016 from Sh62.71 billion. Loans declined at a lower rate of 10.19 per cent to Sh50.16 billion from Sh55.85 billion previously.