People close to Governor Number 001 Hassan Ali Joho have promised to put up a big show this weekend when President Uhuru Kenyatta visits the region. It is unclear what the plan to do, but sources whisper to Corridors that Joho and his team are planning to hold a parallel rally. === A flashy ODM lawmaker known to be pushing his back way to Parliament by intimidating his rivals and obtaining the party ticket through the backdoor is a worried man. The lawmaker, who fell out with ODM leader Raila Odinga after he publicly admitted that he bought his ODM parliamentary party ticket for the 2013 polls, has been making frantic efforts to meet the party's top brass to no avail. The MP, who will be defending his seat at the next general election, has had sleepless nights after his forefront rival was seen at a high-end hotel in Kisumu with influential party officials close to the party leader. According to the MP the meeting considered endorsing his rival for the ODM ticket ahead of the party primaries slated for next month. The MP's bravado and chest-thumbing antics have got him to a pretty pass, amid reports that he could soon ditch ODM for a friendly party on whose ticket he will attempt to defend his seat. === A governor from Nyanza whose determination to retain his seat despite waning popularity is a sight to behold is a man under siege. He has been isolated by all the elected leaders from the county and has been reduced to a lone-ranger in the agricultural devolved unit whose complex politics revolve around clan lines. While he thought that he had amassed enough wealth to buy his way through the party and get the ticket, another shocker awaits him. A successful businessman, perhaps his match, has thrown his hat into the  ring and will challenge him on the Wiper ticket. With Jubilee already angling for the spoils, the governor is worried that the man to beat is the newcomer, whose footprint across the county is big. During a recent political rally in the county, many of the residents avoided the governor's entourage as it snaked into the venue and instead they thunderously cheered on his rival, a move that visibly angered the county chief, who maintained a contorted face throughout the session.