Developers have slowed down projects in the real estate sector as they await the outcome of the August 8 polls, property consultancy Knight Frank has said. Building plans worth Sh314.2 billion for commercial and residential property were approved by the Nairobi county last year, data collated by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows. This was 29.78 per cent more than approvals worth Sh242.1 billion in 2015. There is not much development happening in the election year, a lot of our clients are saying they are getting ready to do their investments but will wait until after the election, Knight Frank managing director Ben Woodhams said in an interview. He, however, said the slowdown was good for the sector because of an oversupply in the high-end market segment. This will allow the market to re-absorb the oversupply which will reverse the marginal price decline, Woodhams said. Prime residential houses in Nairobi, which are currently priced from $800,000 (Sh81.6 million), posted a 2.1 per cent decrease in 2016 as a result of increased supply, according to Knight Frank index.Woodhams said the country s high-end real estate market surplus has persisted for more than a year, largely affecting office spaces as well as retail and residential spaces. The slowdown in luxurious developments is set to boost market prices in the next two years as a result of thinning oversupply. If they start building after election, typical building time might be 18 months so we are talking about 2019 before the properties come on to the market, Woodhams said. This basically means that the demand is still there. Nairobi is still a very important regional hub but there won t be so much supply coming onto the market which will allow us to re-absorb that oversupply. Knight Frank Wealth Report 2017 shows Kenya's high net worth individuals have allocated the largest portion of their wealth at 28 per cent to real estate investments, which excludes primary residences and second homes. The report shows that 69 per cent of Kenya s super-rich are likely to invest in commercial property locally, while up to four per cent of the global high net worth population would consider investing in Kenya s commercial property sector. Kenyan high net worth individuals clearly realise the long-term stability that property investments offer in an otherwise volatile market together with the good returns that the sector has demonstrated in the past, said Woodhams. The 2017 Wealth report shows that the August 8 polls pose the biggest challenge to Kenyan high net worth individual s ability to create and maintain wealth.