In his latest rhetorical flare-up, President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday publicly scolded Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, saying, "I'm not your wife, so stop following me around!"This after the head of state ordered the Coast kingpin and ODM deputy chief placed under office arrest.Joho was blocked from attending Uhuru's ceremonial reopening of the Likoni Ferry crossing and relaunch of MV Likoni.Mombasa county built the road and lights leading to it.Part of the city was at a standstill.No mano-a-mano was possible but verbal fisticuffs were televised. Uhuru also promised to "deal with" Joho and "discipline him." Again he assailed the legitimacy of the governor's academic credentials."I have every right to attend a public event, but Uhuru is afraid to share a podium with me, as I'll tell Kenyans the truth [about the little money from Treasury]," Joho told reporters while under office arrest.It was the latest and perhaps the ugliest in the escalating confrontations between Uhuru and Joho, Jubilee and the NASA opposition.Uhuru is launching projects in Mombasa and trying to make inroads in the Coast for Jubilee. He was expected to clash with NASA leader Raila Odinga's top lieutenant. He didn't disappoint."Tufuatane na yeye tufanye nini? Mimi sio bibi yake, mimi sina haja na yeye (|Why should we always engage each other? What for! I am not his wife and I don't need him)," Uhuru told a crowd.Police blocked Nyali Bridge, creating a massive traffic jam, just to block Joho. He had tried to access the crossing in a private car. As the way was blocked, he took a boda boda, but security officers barred him.Joho was accompanied by Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and county officials."I didn't believe it and was actually shocked GSU officers were deployed. They wanted me to go back to my house and I asked to do what? They escorted me to my office and are actually out here until the President leaves," Joho told the media in his office."I am under office arrest."ODM censure Uhuru on Joho, Nanok tirade[AUDIO] Uhuru calls Nanok a foolish devil for raising queries on oil wealthUhuru explains why he calls leaders 'devil, foolish'In the past, the governor has used functions attended by the President to attack the Jubilee government and has accused the administration of taking credit for county projects. The state says Joho is wrong, the state arranges the project loans and the county is only a junior partner.Had Joho been allowed to speak at Mtongwe, he would have responded to Uhuru's challenge on Sunday at Tononoka Grounds. The President told the county to account for Sh40 billion devolution funds.At his press conference &mdash; under office arrest &mdash; Joho said Mombasa has received only Sh17 billion over four years.At the ferry launch, Uhuru said,"Jameni, Ukiwa na viongozi ambao hawaelewi, viongozi ambao wanafikiria siasa ni ukubwa, ati ni vile wanakuja kusumbuana na mimi. Mimi wasicheze na mimi. Mimi nitawaonyesha....Mombasa hii ni ya Wakenya wote jameni. Na wakati anakuja kujaribu kunifuatafuata, si yeye kwanza akuje awaambie watu wa Likoni amewatendea nini miaka yake minne.Loosely translated, "If you have leaders who don't understand, they always think politics is about being authoritative, and they come to disturb me. They should not joke with me. I will deal with them. Mombasa belongs to everyone. If he tries to follow me, he should first tell Likoni residents what he's done for them in four years."The President accused Joho of constantly provoking him."Politics is not about bravado," Uhuru said.Deputy President William Ruto &mdash; not known for kid gloves or mincing words with rivals &mdash; told Joho to dial down the confrontation."Mombasa residents want services, not supremacy battles," he said."Asicheze na sisi bana, akicheza na sisi tutamnyorosha," ("Let him not play with us, if he does we shall discipline him"), Uhuru said.The President said Kenya Ferry Services is a government parastatal, not under the county, as Joho alleges.Joho says Jubilee is trying to kill Mombasa's economy by transferring the port to Naivasha where it plans a dry port.Mvita MP Nassir said the whole incident had been plotted by Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa and the police.&ldquo;Last night I received a call from Marwa that they had information that they intended to disrupt the President&rsquo;s function,&rdquo; he said.Suleiman Shahbal, a JP governor candidate, said the opposition had planned chaos to disrupt Uhuru's visit at Mtongwe.&ldquo;Goons were recruited the whole of last night for this heinous behavior today by drama queen, the Mombasa Governor,&rdquo; Shahbal said.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;