Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Friday moved to "protect" his support base at the Kongowea market following inroads made by Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and President Uhuru Kenyatta.He said Kongowea, one of the largest open air market in East and Central Africa, is his political stronghold. I was elected Kisauni MP because of this market in 2007. In 2013, I won more votes than any other in the governor race here. I have faith in 2017 [that will be the case as well], Joho said. I walk freely here because I know I am at home. It was not the same some time back. It was hot here. The politics was hot. But people have been united now. And that is the responsibility of leadership. My responsibility is to unite people here. The governor spoke at the market after overseeing the relocation of 500 traders to new stalls. The market has been the subject of a tussle between him and Uhuru.The President ordered its refurbishment in February last year for Sh444 million on Awiti's request. The market is in Awiti's constituency, and he has a considerable following among the traders.On Friday Awiti told the Star he is confident Kongowea is his turf because he has done much for the traders. I am the one who pushed President Uhuru to refurbish the retail centre after it had stalled for years. I have fought off land grabbers who had stolen land belonging to the market, he said on the phone.There was push and pull between Uhuru and Joho over who would officially open it, but Uhuru finally did in August last year.In January, Uhuru accused the county government of delaying the allocation stalls to 1,500 traders. He said it was one of many attempts by "some leaders" to sabotage various upgrades and development his government has commissioned.But county officials said there were some more renovations being done, including drainage.On Friday, Joho said the county government will make it easier for traders to do business at the Kongowea market through business-friendly policies and incentives. Whenever there is a problem you come to us and we solve it. Ever since I was MP, I stood with Kongowea traders and there is no problem that has ever occurred that we did not solve, he said. You remember when I was MP and somebody came to close it? I came and dared them to stop me, then we opened the market and you resumed business. Do you remember? He was referring to May 2011 when the municipal council, under the Local Government ministry, issued a closure order for three days over filth in the market.Joho, who was then Kisauni MP, intervened, leading to an agreement to prevent total closure f the market.The market has an estimated 10,000 traders, a rich vote-hunting ground for politicians.The governor called on the traders to remain united, irrespective of race, religion, tribe and social status.He said Mombasa belongs to everyone. I hear some people say we have to come together as this tribe or this religion . That is not the way. If you take that route you have lost direction, Joho said.