Life for Alice Wanjiru has become a nightmare.While the doctors&rsquo; strike enters its 90th day on Saturday, Alice is staring at Sh4.5 million bill, which she must clear for a hospital to release her husband&rsquo;s body.Each day the mortuary charges Sh2,000.There is no way the 38-year-old charcoal seller and mother of three will ever raise the money on her own.On a good day in Dagoretti, she earns Sh200. At that rate, she will need 37 years to raise the Sh4.5 million so she can bury her husband.And how will she care for her children?Her ordeal began when her husband of 12 years, Austin Ndung&rsquo;u, fell ill in December. That was about the time doctors walked out of public hospitals.Alice&rsquo;s first rushed him to Kenyatta National Hospital which they could afford. After all, they had an NHIF card.Doctors were on strike.Alice and her brother-in-law Vincent Oloo settled for Kikuyu Mission Hospital on December 16.They found a doctor, but the church-run facility was not equipped to treat Ndungu&rsquo;s grave lung disease. &ldquo;I had to take him to a private hospital regardless of our financial situation. He was my husband...what else was I to do?&rdquo; she said. After that disappointment, a friend recommended Karen Hospital on December 21. &ldquo;We drove all the way to the hospital, but we were told to pay Sh300,000 for my husband to be treated. I broke down. It was too much,&rdquo; she said.Determined to get her husband back to his feet, they drove to Nairobi South Hospital. &ldquo;At least there the amount was Sh250,000. I didn&rsquo;t have the money but my husband was not doing so well after all the movement,&rdquo; she said.They were asked for a Sh100,000 deposit that day, the balance the next day. &ldquo;I withdrew everything in my husband&rsquo;s account, Sh80,000. This, plus my savings, covered the deposit,&rdquo; she said.For the balance,Wanjiru and her family borrowed from friends and later held a fundraiser that raised Sh500,000. &ldquo;I had a little money after paying the deposit. But as the days went by the bill became higher and higher,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I asked for money from everybody I knew. Shortly afterwards, my husband felll into a coma. He never regained consciousness. He died on January 27.&rdquo;The hospital sent Ndung&rsquo;u&rsquo;s body to Umash Funeral Home. The undertakers were told to hold the body until instructed by Nairobi South Hospital.And for her to bury her husband, Alice must clear the Sh4.5 million bill. In the meantime, the mortuary is charges Sh2,000 every day. As part of the settlements NHIF paid Sh80,000 of the bill. &ldquo;His body is still in the mortuary and I have no idea how I will make the payment. I am appealing to any Kenyan willing to help to please come to my aid,&rdquo; she said.Donations can be sent to Wanjiru by M-Pesa pay bill number 654013 or to her mobile number 0710-733-345.