You will soon part with up to Sh4 million if found with plastic bags or serve a jail term of up to four years, or both. Environment CS Judi Wakhungu yesterday said the minimum jail term is one year and the minimum fine is Sh1 million. The directive will be effective from September. A culprit can be fined Sh4 million and still be jailed for four years, she said. Through a gazette notice dated February 27, Wakhungu banned carrier bags with handles and with or without gussets, or flat bags without handles and with or without gussets. “The Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the Environment ministry and the National Environment Management Authority have been discussing this issue for 10 years,” Wakhungu said. “Since I came into office, they’ve been meeting quarterly, but we were being taken round and round as the issue was getting worse.” The CS spoke at the Serena Hotel during celebrations to mark Earth Hour, which is organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature. Wakhungu said, “Nobody can doubt the fact that plastic bags are pollutants. People complain about air quality, but nobody complains about plastic bags as pollutants. “It’s not true that we have not consulted KAM. I met with them on February 24 and told them I was going to gazette the notice so they are aware and the evidence is there.” The Earth Hour event is observed every year across the globe. Millions of people hold events in more than 178 countries to show their efforts to combat global warming. This year, World Wide Fund teams around the globe focus on climate action through partnerships with businesses, governments and civil society. Wakhungu said the ministry is working with KAM to clean the environment. Concern has grown over micro plastics — particles of up to 5mm in diameter, manufactured or created when plastics break down. Their ingestion has been widely reported in marine organisms, including seabirds, fish, mussels, worms and zoo-plankton. In 2014, a study by UNEP and its partners estimated that about 280 million tonnes of plastics are produced globally each year, but only an insignificant percentage is recycled. Instead, some end up in the oceans, causing damage to marine ecosystems, to the tune of billions of dollars annually.