Mike Sonko has hinted that he would consider vying for Nairobi governor under NASA if Jubilee Party continues to "victimise" him.The Nairobi Senator was among four Jubilee leaders who were summonedover chaos in last week's selection of county election boards.Sonko said the summons were issued in bad faith."Juzi tulikuwa Bomas wakaita wafuasi wao wakafunga milango ya hall. Mimi kufika kwa gate, wakaanza kunitupia maneno...'huwezi kuiingia hapa, Kamanda amesema huiingii hapa'... Nikaita polisi na wafuasi wangu nikawaambia nimezuiwa lakini polisi wakatufungulia tukaingia ndani," he said on Radio Maisha on Thursday.This loosely translates to: "The other day at Bomas Jubilee called their supporters for election and locked the doors. When I reached there I was told Starehe MP Maina Kamanda had barred me from the venue but the police eventually granted me access."The Senator continued: "Hiyo Sh6 million wanasema sitalipa kwa sababu tulienda Karen na Lang'ata police stations lakini hakuna damages. Na OCS hakuwa amesema kulikuwa na ghasia. Nairobi hakukuwa na ghasia so mimi sitaenda huko kwa committee."This lossely translates to: "I went to Langata and Karen police stations but no case had been reported ... yet they say property of about Sh6 million was destroyed. No chaos was reported so I will not appear before the disciplinary committee."Jubilee disciplinary committee chairman Sonko further said the allegations raised against him were being propagated by rivals who were also intimidating his supporters.But he said he will ensure he is on the ticket for the governor race in the August 8 polls. He wants to replace incumbent ODM governor Evans Kidero.Sonko said: "NASA ni chama...sio chama cha mashetani. Jubilee ni chama lakini wakinipiga vita nitaenda niwaachie mtu wao. [Kama ni ukabila wacha waendelee]. Hakuna shida."(NASA is a political outfit like any other...it does not belong to devils. Jubilee is a party but if they fight against me and are tribalistic I will leave and get elected on another party.)The Senator said he will not work with his rival Peter Kenneth."I cannot have Kenneth as my deputy ... so Nairobians should not expect that from me," he said.He added that he will have 300 youths at every polling station in Nairobi to ensure there is no rigging in the Jubilee nominations set to begin on April 21.[VIDEO] Sonko supporters happy with 'Uhuru's endorsement' for Nairobi governor seat