AN
annual African trade summit at the University of Southern California had no
African attendees this year, after at least 100 delegates were denied visas. The
African Global Economic and Development Summit brings together delegations from
across Africa to meet with business leaders in the US, in an effort to foster
partnerships. Unfortunately,
every single African citizen who requested a visa to attend the three-day
conference — Thursday through Saturday — was turned down, according to
organiser Mary Flowers. Flowers
said the delegates from Nigeria, Cameroon, Angola, Ethiopia, Sierra
Leone, Guinea, Ghana and South Africa were denied entry to the summit. This
reignited questions about US foreign policy on Africa.  There are also
concerns whether this development could be tied to President Donald Trump’s anti-immigration
policies that are pushing a travel ban against six Muslim majority nations —
Iran, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, Syria and Libya — despite suspension of previous
orders by federal judges. This
also came as Trump proposed massive cuts in America’s allocations
to the United Nations and its aid agency USAid, which largely
operates in Africa, in his new budget, as reported by the EastAfrican newspaper
in its March 18-24 edition. In
the budget proposal, titled America First: A Budget Blueprint to Make America
Great Again, President Trump plans to increase military spending by $54
billion by reducing allocations to other areas. He has proposed
to end the $28.2 million funding to the African Development
Foundation, a US agency that gives grants of up to $250,000 to communities and
small businesses in sub-Saharan Africa. The cuts mean several peacekeeping
missions and humanitarian agencies in Africa, including the Word Food Programme
that feeds more than 600,000 refugees, will have to reorganise their budgets. President
Trump’s actions against Africa and the African Global Economic and Development
Summit are unprecedented. Never before has an entire continent been disbarred
from an international conference. And it is astonishing that this has not
caused any uproar on behalf of Africa. Trump’s
actions reek of collective punishment and racial and religious discrimination. In
2015, the European Union said it would cut its Amisom budget by 20 per cent.
But there was no rancor and not a whiff of discriminatory mistreatment. If
such actions as Trump’s continue, they will clearly have negative impacts on
both the US and Africa, in a globalised world because these trade links create
jobs for both America and Africa. Speaking
in Monessen, Pennsylvania, on June 28, during his campaigns last year, Trump
detailed his plan to remake the US economic relationship with the world by
scrapping existing trade agreements. “Our
politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalisation, moving our
jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico and overseas. Globalisation has
made the financial elite, who donate to politicians, very, very wealthy … and
left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartache,” Trump
said. This
appears to be a policy, and is a threat to the global economy. So is Trump. The
German government’s panel of economic advisers on Monday called President
Trump’s protectionist stance a threat to the global economy. Denying
people visas on a continental level does little or nothing to making the world
great, or even the US. Marketing
strategist Dustin McKissen in his CNBC column wrote on the attended immigration
ban, “America's economic strength is based on attracting the best and the
brightest to come here and help build a better future. That competitive
advantage is baked into our entire economy…. Our belief in an open, welcoming,
competitive society is our gold mine. It's what has made our businesses
innovative and our economy strong.”