President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto’s week-long coastal tour ended on a high note. Both expressed optimism that Coast is now a Jubilee Party stronghold. This message came out loud and clear at a major rally in Mombasa, where massive defections were witnessed, with Tana River county taking the lead. Kilifi, Kwale and Taita Taveta counties had earlier joined the defection bandwagon. Not even the much-publicised tiff between the President and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho could dampen JP’s resolve to enter the Coast, hitherto the monopoly of opposition parties, in particular ODM. By the time Uhuru and Ruto left, Coast was awash with talk about JP’s place in the region’s politics and voting patterns on August 8. More specifically is whether Coast is now a JP stronghold. To reverse JP’s mounting popularity, Joho, his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi and Taita Taveta’s John Mruttu organised a series of political rallies. If defections could translate into votes, JP would indeed win the Coast. Unfortunately, this may not necessarily be the case. The battle for political supremacy at the Coast is between JP and ODM. If JP can minimise or reverse ODM’s influence, it shall have won control of Coast politics. In the Coast, NASA is an afterthought. As an affiliate of supposedly like-minded parties, NASA, without ODM, lacks the ability or the capacity to influence political change here. It is an amorphous entity at war with itself, a war that is giving JP the upper hand. Despite the criticisms levelled against the Jubilee administration, it is the only government since Independence that has worked to influence economic change at the Coast – in under five years. It has built roads and ports, which are opening up the region. Of course there is the ever-present issue of land, but this is a matter to be solved by the national government, the counties and other actors and stakeholders. Despite implementing mega projects, there is a hitch in JP’s plan to displace the opposition. JP could have started small to grow the Coast economy. No matter how significant major roads and ports are to spurring economic growth, the reality on the ground is that coastal communities need basic necessities. They need potable water, good education, environmental protection, improved agriculture and better healthcare. Some of these are devolved functions, but the national government controls the purse strings and is in a position to supplement the poorly funded county governments. Whatever the national government does is to its own credit, politically and otherwise. As JP leaders crisscrossed the Coast drumming up support, hundreds of people went hungry in the remote parts of the region. This was an opportunity for the national government to show it cares and actually feed the hungry. JP leaders have missed one other significant point. For years, coastal communities have requested, without success, the revival of stalled local industries, which were the region’s economic bedrock. These industries collapsed in part due to corruption and mismanagement. They include the cashew nut factory at Kilifi, the milk-processing plants at Mariakani and Miritini, near Mombasa, and the Kenya Bixa plant in Kwale. These factories not only provided jobs, they also benefitted local farmers and suppliers. Yet, appeals to revive at least one or two of these have fallen on deaf ears. When the Americans and the Soviets were competing to be the first to land on the moon in the 1960s, Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere reportedly advised his people to work towards achieving their basic needs first. JP may mean well, but the long-term projects do not mean much to the majority of the impoverished communities. The people are struggling to get basic necessities – food, shelter, clothing – while battling drought, famine and hunger. Neither shall these projects persuade them to abandon the opposition and vote for JP. The overall impact of the JP incursion, however, is that the influence of the opposition, ODM in particular, shall be weakened during the election. This will be especially so if voters decide to elect individuals, based on character and leadership qualities, and not parties.