The government has partnered with the private sector to roll out an innovative insurance scheme to cushion pastoralists against perennial drought. Some 12,600 households in drought-stricken counties &ndash; Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo, Tana River, Turkana and Wajir &ndash; have already received Sh215 million to buy fodder and animal feed.The Kenya Livestock Insurance Programme was launched in 2015 as a partnership between the government and seven insurance companies &ndash; Kenya Orient, UAP, APA, CIC, Jubilee, Amaco and Heritage. Essentially, the government purchases insurance on behalf of vulnerable pastoralist households, helping sustain their livelihoods.Klip is the first such initiative in Africa. It was successfully piloted and targeted 5,000 farmers in Turkana and Wajir. It is now being expanded, supported by the World Bank and other development partners.Klip is an index-based livestock insurance scheme. It relies on satellite technology to monitor pasture conditions and vegetation available to animals in dry, remote areas. This ensures continuous surveillance and intervention before it&rsquo;s too late. Once a certain threshold is reached, the system triggers payments to the pastoralists to purchase fodder and animal feed before their livestock die.In 2016, the government launched the National Agricultural Insurance Programme to address disruptions that farmers face, such as drought and floods.The NAIP and Klip target agriculture, a key sector of the economy. As such, they will help boost food security and sustainable livelihoods, especially in the ASALs.Livestock insurance schemes come with many benefits to farmers and the economy. First, they are geared towards enhancing the financial resilience of farmers, cushioning poor households whenever drought ravages their only economic asset. For a long time, pastoralists were left to their own devices and forced to rely on famine relief, with no option of livestock replacement.Second, livestock insurance is critical to productivity and sustainability of livestock farming in ASALs. It helps pastoralists adapt to improved production methods by cutting over-reliance on pasture, especially during dry spells, ensuring livestock survival.Third, livestock insurance is a cost-effective drought intervention strategy. In the past, the government has spent billions of shillings feeding drought-stricken families in the ASALs. But through livestock insurance schemes, the government spends less by intervening early to avert drought-related livestock deaths. It is estimated that livestock deaths accounted for 70 per cent of the Sh1.2 trillion damage caused by drought in 2008&ndash;2011.Fourth, they spur insurance uptake in remote areas that have been neglected for lack of infrastructure and access to financial services. This is critical to boosting insurance penetration and inclusion in Kenya. For instance, Klip uses technology and insurance expertise to deliver tangible solutions. Besides, agriculture is our economic mainstay, yet a good chunk of farming and livestock activities are not insured, exposing them to irreversible financial risk.Fifth, Klip is an outstanding example of a successful public-private partnership to address socioeconomic challenges. Such partnerships are needed in dealing with large-scale challenges such as drought since government can only do so much, given prevailing fiscal constraints.Innovative insurance solutions will not only spare the country from massive losses arising from drought-related disasters but also make livestock rearing profitable and, more importantly, sustainable. It will also make insurance more accessible and inclusive, especially among vulnerable communities who nonetheless have an important role to play in the economy.Muindi is CEO, Kenya Orient Insurance Ltd.