Millers are lobbying the government to reduce the 50 per cent import duty levied on white maize. Eastern Africa Grain Council CEO Gerald Masila said there is a shortage of maize because last year’s grain reserves are not enough and rains failed. Yesterday, he told the Star maize millers are operating below the 50 per cent capacity due to the shortage leading to an increase of maize flour prices. “We are urging the government to reduce the 50 per cent import duty to enable the private sector buy white maize for consumption from Ethiopia. The government should reduce tariff on maize importation from countries in the East African Community and the Common Market of East and Southern Africa. It is becoming cheaper to import wheat and rice and this has led to a shift in consumption,” Masila said. He indicated the import duty for wheat is 12 per cent while that of rice is at 25 per cent. A spot check showed a two-kilo packet of maize flour is going for a minimum of Sh140, while a two-kilo packet of wheat flour is being sold at Sh123. Masila said the high prices are hurting consumers. “There is going to be a gradual shift in consumer preference and at the end of the day maize farmers will have no customers,” Masila said. The Ministry of Agriculture says a 90-kilo bag of dry maize is retailing at between Sh3,200 and Sh4,800, while wheat is going for between Sh3,300 and Sh3,600. A 90-kilo bag of beans is selling at between Sh4,800 and Sh9,000. “When the price of the main crop in Kenya’s food basket increases, consumers have less money to buy other things and this has a big impact on the country’s economy,” Masila said. Kenyans are paying more to put food on the table due to the raging drought and a cutoff of grain imports from neighbouring countries, says the National Drought Management Authority. This has triggered a drastic increase in food prices, pushing up the country’s overall inflation to 6.99 per cent in January from 6.35 per cent in December last year. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows the cost of selected foods rose 1.66 per cent in January from 1.31 per cent in December.