NASA leaders at the Coast yesterday made a counterattack on the Jubilee administration as they started a tour of the region in Taita Taveta. This is days after President Uhuru Kenyatta toured the region. The NASA tour will culminate in a mega rally in Tononoka on March 26. Co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi will attend. Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), John Mruttu (Taita Taveta), Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and MPs Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi) and Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni) said Jubilee has failed the Coast. Joho told President Uhuru Kenyatta to give out land owned by his family to squatters in Taita Taveta. “You are the one who knows the whereabouts of the title deed the Taita Taveta people have been seeking. Give Taita Taveta people their land so they can settle and improve their lives,” Joho said. He also said he is the toughest and sharpest governor, and that Uhuru cannot intimidate him. Joho said Uhuru’s threats to sort him out do not scare him. Joho said he will ‘spit” the truth on Uhuru’s face whether he likes it or not. He said his cause is too great to be brought down by “mere talk”. Uhuru on Monday said he will put Joho in his place for consistently attacking the government and projects. Joho’s reenergised confidence comes just a day after he expressed fears his life is in danger. He said hitmen have been trailing. Joho said six men armed with AK-47 raided his former home and he suspects they planted bombs, poison and guns. He urged the police to send sniffer dogs to the house to avoid incrimination. Police have dismissed the reports. Joho bashed Uhuru for selling land to Waitiki squatters and “threatening” him for speaking the truth. “There is no way you will sell land to my people and expect me to clap for you my friend,” the visibly angry governor said as the crowd cheered. Land has been a bane at the Coast. The state has issued more than three million title deeds since 2013, with the Coast being the biggest beneficiary. In 2015, the state told the 7,000 squatters on the Waitiki Farm to pay Sh182,000 to help repay the loan it took to buy the land from fromer owner Evanson Waitiki. Joho said Jubilee rides on projects started by the county. He didn’t mention them, though. Uhuru on Monday relaunched the Mtongwe Ferry. Harbours are county functions, but Kenya Ferry Services is a parastatal. Joho said instead of Uhuru giving Mtongwe residents a new vessel, he recommissioned a 30-year-old one. The channel was closed in 2012. In 1994, MV Mtongwe ferry, bound for the mainland, capsized just 40 metres from the port, killing 272 of the 400 people on board. Joho castigated Jubilee’s plan to set up a dry port in Naivasha. He said the dry port should be set up in Taita Taveta if the government is sincere about developing the country. The government said it will establish the port in Naivasha to bring services closer to the people. “If such a port is in the Coast, more of our people will be employed. This is what Jubilee doesn’t want,” Joho said. He called for ODM leader Raila Odinga to be picked the NASA presidential flagbearer. “If we elect him, he will liberate us form the struggle we have been forced to endure,” Joho said. He said Jubilee thinks it will rule for 20 years, but “it will be defeated.” Joho blamed President Uhuru and his deputy for “spreading lies and propaganda” on the amount of money the Exchequer released to the counties. He said Mombasa county only received Sh16.3 billion, not Sh40 billion as Uhuru had said.    