In August prisoners in 118 prisons across Kenya will join other eligible Kenyans in casting votes for the election of the President. As there are more prisoners than the Makonde we should take their vote seriously. As the IEBC has limited the registration of prisoners to the presidential election, we should proceed to consider what effect might their vote have on the election results? I understand that prisoners voted in the 2010 constitutional referendum and also it is claimed in the 2013 presidential contest, but cannot find any disaggregated returns to show their turnout or who they voted for. Nevertheless, we know from government statistics that the national daily average prison population was 55,000 in 2014. Assuming that figure hasn’t dropped and that each and every Kenyan prisoner is dying to vote, the IEBC’s exercise will add up to 55,000 votes to the presidential vote register. We use the daily average because in prison, most people come and go – as of 2014 the only permanent residents were about 3,000 death row convicts and persons serving life imprisonment. The semi-permanent inmates amounted to about 25,000, serving sentences of two years or more. That is why it made sense for the IEBC to only register for the one week between February 20 and 27. Some might think that out of the 19 million registered voters announced by the IEBC, 28,000 to 55,000 incarcerated voters is not a large or statistically important number. They would be mistaken. It is after all, at least three and at most six times larger than the surplus achieved by Uhuru Kenyatta when he won the presidency in the first round in 2013. 55,000 votes is almost a quarter of the margin of victory in the discredited presidential elections of 2007. If all prisoners voted a certain way they are a respectable swing vote in a presidential election. As the prisons are located in county headquarters the prison vote could usefully contribute to the achievement of 25 per cent of the votes cast in each of more than half of the counties, a requirement for one to be elected President. The physical, socio and psychological dynamics of Kenyan prisons add three dramatic twists to my mind. First, in prisons it is impossible to imagine how any voting and counting can be adequately monitored or observed by independent electoral observers or candidates’ agents. These are maximum security institutions after all, and a prison break or hostage taking on IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba’s big day is not what we want. Secondly, in any presidential election where the incumbent is seeking reelection, what are the odds that incarcerated persons might not be pressured by their gaolers into voting for the person who is the Commander in Chief of each and every prison warder and officers? Thirdly, remember that because they have no liberty the prisoner is not an ordinary constituent. He or she is not particularly interested in development records or public policy. In fact, prisoners are highly susceptible to pledges related to release policy, a promise they are likely to believe more from an incumbent, and particularly one who has actually released offenders in the recent past using the constitutional power of pardon and mercy. What Chiloba did – register prisoners as voters – is regarded as extremely progressive by Western liberals. Only months ago, after years of struggle in the US, a movement to enfranchise prisoners registered its first success in recent years with the decision of California to join Maine and Vermont in allowing gaoled persons the right to vote. In Kenya the right to vote goes with the right to be a candidate. Article 38( 3 )(c) says “every adult citizen has the right, without unreasonable restrictions—to be a candidate for public office, or office within a political party of which the citizen is a member and, if elected, to hold office.” Does the IEBC understand this to mean prisoners can be candidates for all elections in 2013? But, back to voting. There are genuine practical difficulties with implementation of the prisoners’ vote in the presidential elections. It is good not to be suspicious of everything, but it is unwise to be casual or completely uncritical. Let us have a debate on how we can enfranchise our fellow Kenyans without opening up avenues for electoral mischief, before it is too late.