A civil society group has challenged the government to make public all the contracts it has signed with multinationals for exploratory activities for scrutiny. The contracts being sought include those in oil, gas and mineral exploration under the ministries of Energy and Petroleum as well as Mining. The Kenya Civil Society Platform on Oil and Gas yesterday said in the oil and gas sector alone, only 10 of the 44 contracts are publicly available. KCSPOG said this leaves Kenyans &ldquo;in the dark&rdquo; over ongoing activities in the extractive industry, a development that could expose the country to manipulation. &ldquo;It is critical that existing contracts are reviewed and also ensure that terms contained therein are being followed,&rdquo; the lobby&rsquo;s coordinator Charles Wanguhu told reporters in Nairobi yesterday.He said the group in partnership with Inuka Kenya has written to Cabinet Secretaries Charles Keter (Energy and Petroleum) and Dan Kazungu (Mining), asking for disclosure of contracts under their dockets.KCSPOG also wants the Early Oil Pilot Scheme signed between the Energy and Petroleum ministry, Tullow Oil, Africa Oil and Maersk Oil, on March 14 made public. The agreement paves way for the EOPS which includes the production of 2,000 barrels of oil per day at the Turkana oil fields from April, and the transportation of oil by road to Mombasa. Keter said last week on Tuesday the three firms had also signed a hospitality agreement with the Kenya Petroleum Refineries Limited for the storage of the crude oil at its Changamwe, Mombasa, tanks before export. &ldquo;By next month, we should start movement of products from Lokichar to Mombasa and eventually for export,&rdquo; Keter said during the signing. The lobby group however yesterday maintained that the project is not economical viable. A report by the lobby in October last year indicated that the early oil project could cost the country more than Sh4 billion in losses. &ldquo;It could actually mean more money is lost,&rdquo; Wanguhu said. The government has also created 16 new blocks from the existing 44. The lobby has called for a moratorium on issuance of new licenses until the Petroleum Exploration Development Production Bill 2015 is passed into law, arguing that it will get Kenyans a better deal, as it provides for parliamentary ratification before issuance of licences. &ldquo;I think the new contracts are being signed to avoid the scrutiny that the new law provides,&rdquo; he said.Kazungu said: &ldquo;I have not seen any letter. When I see it and understand the request, the Ministry will respond accordingly and according to the laws of the land.&rdquo;