The government has for the third time extended the Mandera dusk-to-dawn curfew, citing security problems.Curfew has been in effect for five months since October 27 after 12 people, non-locals, were slaughtered and six others seriously injured by terrorists in a guest house.On Tuesday, Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery extended the curfew for another 90 days until June 23.Residents had mixed reactions.Some leaders have threatened to sue to challenge the extension.Mandera Township MCA Feisal Abdinoor yesterday said the curfew had curtailed business and drained the area economically.He told the Star on the phone the government cannot use the curfew to lock down Mandera town, while there are other ways to ensure the current calm is maintained.&ldquo;There is nowhere in the world use of curfew has brought lasting peace. Unless we engage the community, the current peace may not last after the curfew ends,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are ready as leaders to rally our communities in ensuring that lasting peace in Mandera is achieved.&rdquo;Feisal said the rest of Kenyans think the curfew is working well, but residents are suffering.He said the security personnel are using the curfew to extort money from residents. &ldquo;There are cases of police charging up to Sh8,000 for anyone arrested during the curfew hours. Not many can afford to pay this amount,&rdquo; he said. If a resident fails to raise the money, he or she is jailed for one month, he said..But quarry worker Joseph Njoroge said the curfew will curb killings.Quarry workers have been victims of al Shabaab massacres.Resident Hussein Omar said the curfew will bar residents from praying at 8pm. County commissioner Fredrick Shisia asked residents to adhere to the new orders.The first one-month curfew was imposed by the government in October last year because of terrorism.It covered the border towns of Mandera, Kutollo, Elwak, Lafey, Arabia and Omar Jillo. The curfew is enforced in areas 20km from the Kenya-Somalia border.Nkaissery at that time said the order applied to every person, unless granted special written permission by their deputy county commissioner.On December 28 last year, the government extended the curfew for a second time by three months. Nkaissery had said the order would remain effective until March 28 this year at 6.30am. He said the curfew would help the government end terrorism in the region.