Kenyan politics is highly ethnicised and the presidential elections just another ethnic census. Presidential candidates play an ethnic chess game and calculus of tribal numbers to ascend to and retain power. The more the numbers and buy-in from the communities the merrier. This kind of politics shall be with us for some time.By conservative estimates, the last mass voter registration places the combined Luhya vote in the five Western counties and diaspora at over 3.5 million. Consolidating these votes into one basket together with other strongholds is any presidential candidate&rsquo;s dream come true.However, &ldquo;united&rdquo; and &ldquo;Luhya vote&rdquo; are an oxymoron. The Luhya unity project has been a greasy pole dance if the last two elections are anything to go by.The Luhya are the second-largest voting bloc. After Moses Mudavadi, Masinde Muliro and Kijana Wamalwa, the Luhya have had no undisputed community leader like the other &ldquo;big five&rdquo;. Raila stepped in as regent and the community largely voted for him in the last two elections.In 2007, which no doubt Raila won, Musalia Mudavadi was on the presidential ticket as his running mate and together they painted Western orange. In 2013, Raila had a sizeable vote, but much less than 2007.Exit Raila, enter Mudavadi. The ambitious Mulembe unity project was impeded by sibling rivalry until it dawned that Mudavadi is the most senior and experienced politician in the region, to the chagrin of many. The Bukhungu Declaration of December 31, 2016, confirmed Mudavadi as the indisputable community leader.Mudavadi cuts a deceptive image of a soft and easygoing politician. He is not a fire-spitting street fighter and riot leader. He is meticulous, firm, decisive and far from soft. He is a fighter who shows no exhaustion.The 2013 presidential election personified the work of former Bahari MP Joe Hamisi in his book Politics of Betrayal. ODM waterboarded Mudavadi&rsquo;s presidential ambitions by unfairly elbowing him out of nominations at the last minute. Mudavadi then ran for President on the UDF ticket. With all the propaganda, smear campaign, backstabbing and horsetrading, he remained unbent. He can be obstinately decisive, even in the face of infamy.He is back in town re-energised and reinvented. In the past three years, he has built his ANC party in readiness for this year&rsquo;s election. He brought the opposition together under NASA, which is now a coalition of four parties &mdash; ODM, Ford Kenya, Wiper and ANC.The Western voter now sees in Mudavadi a leader and aspirants are gravitating towards his party. Legislators who had been hostile are now embracing him. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba recently joined ANC. The frosty relationship between Ford-K leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Mudavadi has thawed considerably.After voting for Raila in two elections, the Luhya voter is fatigued and needs a more convincing reason to wake up and vote on August 8. If it is to win, NASA must give Musalia the ticket. This will not only ring fence the Luhya vote but also increase voter turnout in NASA strongholds. A fresh ticket, even with Kalonzo Musyoka at the helm, will both be disruptive and exciting.Mudavadi is the only NASA luminary capable of making forays into Jubilee strongholds. Take, for example, among the Kalenjins. There is part of the community disappointed with Jubilee&rsquo;s marriage of convenience. They are in this marriage &ldquo;just for the children&rdquo; and for lack of an alternative. The Kalenjin voter has, however, been politically radicalised and indoctrinated against Raila. The harsh and unfair anti-Raila movement &mdash; that he is a bad deal and a hard sell &mdash; is strong.ANC deputy party leader Kipruto arap Kirwa&rsquo;s activities in popularising the party and its leader to the Kalenjin voter through professionals and other groups is recording success.In a high-octane political environment and polarised country in need of national cohesion, a more polarising candidate is a powder keg for NASA&rsquo;s loss to Jubilee. Among the four NASA principals, it&rsquo;s only a Mudavadi-Kalonzo ticket that is perceived to have a unifying effect.Advocate of High Court of Kenya and Publisher ilaw.co.ke