Defending champions Swamibapa capitalised on Stray Lions depleted side to advance to another final of the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20. With five of their regular players missing, Stray Lion, who were still unbeaten ahead of the first qualifying match at Sikh Union, had to field players who had not played in the preliminary stages a situation that Swamibapa took advantage of, to register a six-wickets win and qualified for next weekend s final. Among the new faces paraded for the match included club s chairman Chidambaran Subramanian, who bowled the last over as Swamibapa chased down 93 in 17.5 overs. Lameck Onyango s lethal opening burst set up the commanding victory for the defending champions and ended Stray Lions winning streak. Onyango was fast, aggressive and accurate, putting the Stray Lions on the back foot right from the onset. He beat the bat on several occasions in his opening over before Jay Mehta was run out in the second over.He then claimed Abraham Vadada with slow ball that had him caught for a duck. Just when Shyam Sundar was trying to see if he can get something in a third wicket stand with Neil Narvekar, Onyango made it 19 for 3 after 4.2 overs with his second wicket to end with figures of 2-14 from four overs.Jadavji Malindi Bhimji added on two more wickets to leave Stray Lions on 23 for 5. At this stage, Stray Lions needed a partnership to avoid any further wobbles and it came in the form of Narvekar (29 from 36 balls) and Hiren Varaiya (26 from 28). The pair were extremely composed as they narrowed on the target with some brilliant running between the wickets. They struck five boundaries between them to guide the their team to 77 for 6 after 17 overs. They tried to get to past the 100-mark with the remaining balls but tight bowling and fielding from Swamibapa made the quest hard, ending on 93 for 9. In reply, Swamibapa capitalised on the poor seam attack from Stray Lions to win the match comfortably. The spin duo of Maurice Odumbe and Varaiya delayed their victory party as they collected all the four wickets. Odumbe was once again the chief destroyer for Swami s batting line up with three wickets, including the one for top scorer, Maurice Ouma, who scored 25 runs.