Uganda&rsquo;s fastest driver Jas Mangat returns to the ARC Safari Rally, hoping to secure his maiden win on Kenyan soil. Mangat is among six Ugandan crews enlisted for the Safari this weekend.Others are Yasin Nasser, Christakis Fitidis, Hassan Alwi, Kepher Walubi and Duncan Mubiru. Mangat, who has previously performed well in the Safari, will partner up with Joseph Kamya in a Mitsubishi Evo X and will be looking to renew his bid for the African Championship after losing the title on homestretch to Jassy Singh of Zambia in 2013.However, co-driver Kamya is making his debut both in Safari and as an ARC contender. Christakis Fitidis of Uganda will be navigated by Eric Nzamwita of Rwanda in a Mitsubishi Evo X. The 63-year-old and his co-driver from Rwanda will also be among the ARC contenders in Safari Rally. Fitidis will be aiming for his first Safari Rally finish after three attempts. Another Ugandan crew of Yasin Nasser and Ali Katumba have entered a Subaru N10.The crew is debuting the Kenyan competition and gaining experience from Safari will be their main target as well as chasing ARC pointsThe reigning Pearl of Africa Uganda rally winner Hassan Alwi and Enoch Olinga have entered a Subaru N14. Just like the crew of Nasser, Alwi and Olinga will be making their debut in the Kenyan show.Kepher Walubi and Susan Kalema hope to take advantage of the highly competitive Safari to improve on their pace in their Mitsubishi Evo X. Duncan Mubiru/George Semakula in a Mitsubishi Evo X and fresh from winning NRC Round 2, the pair is psyched up for Safari as they debut the ARC at the same time. Mubiru is not new figure to Safari, having participated in 2014. The six crews carry the hopes of an entire nation hoping to capture headlines this time round.The Safari will be flagged off outside KICC this Friday and end at Afraha Stadium on Saturday after tackling historic stages around Ngong, Suswa, Kedong, Gicheha Farm, Ndundori Forest near Lanet, Elemntaita and Aberdare Hills. This year&rsquo;s event will see organisers run four service points&mdash; meaning service crews will be moving from location to location to link up with rally cars. There will be three spectator viewing points at Jamhuri Park, Aberdare Hills and Elementaita.