Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua will be buried on Monday. His body is expected to arrive at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport from London tomorrow morning. It will be received by new Nyeri Governor Samuel Wamathai at 5am. Hundreds of Nyeri residents are also expected at the airport to receive the body. Gachagua's family led by brother Rigathi Gachagua will be accompanying the body from London in UK. The Council of Governors has also sent three governors to accompany Gachagua's body back home from the UK. They are Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Kenneth Lusaka (Bungoma) and Jack Ranguma of Kisumu. Nyeri communications officer Jack Kabiru said the body will later be taken to the Lee Funeral Home ahead of the funeral service, which is being planned. The venue of the service and date will be announced. The body will leave the Lee Funeral Home on Monday at 7am for church service and burial the same day. The burial ceremony wall start at 10 am at his Hiriga home, Nyeri county. “It was his wish that he be laid to rest next to our father Gachagua Reriani, who passed on several years ago,” Rigathi said. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to be among mourners who will attend the burial of the governor. Others expected at the funeral are governors, senators and MPs. Gachagua's relatives who live in Australia, London and South Africa are also expected to come. Sources said the county and national governments are offering all the support to ensure a decent send off for Gachagua. The homes of the late governor, which are at Nairobi, Nyeri town and Mathira West, have been a beehive of activities as leaders and residents prepare for his final journey. At his Hiriga home in Mathira West, security has been increased. Roads leading the home have also been rehabilitated ahead of the big day. Rigathi said the governor had wished to die at his Hiriga home and arrangements had been made for him to travel back home on Wednesday last week, however, the airlines declined to transport him back home, saying he was very weak. Alternate ways of flying him back before his death were being checked before he died at a London hospital on Friday morning.