Kakamega Senate hopeful Alex Mukabwa has called for the disbandment of the 12-member NASA National Co-ordinating Committee charged with coming up with the formula to pick a presidential candidate. Mukabwa yesterday said members of the committee, comprising three representatives from each of the four parties, have vested interests. They are causing unnecessary anxiety among NASA supporters by delaying the naming of the flag bearer. “All members are pulling in their direction and you can’t expect them to agree on any of the four principal,” he said. Mukabwa added, “People like [Siaya Senator James] Orengo are busy shouting that opposition chief Raila Odinga is the best bet even before they give us the way forward.” The committee is co-chaired by Orengo and Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama and MPs Sakwa Bunyasi and Eseli Simiyu. Mukabwa said the committee should be disbanded and the principals allowed to agree among themselves on who among them should fly the opposition flag or be subjected to a vote by NASA members. NASA principals Raila (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya have said the opposition will beat the IEBC deadline in naming its captain. Each principal is claiming entitlement to the NASA ticket, with each declaring himself the sure bet to beat Jubilee’s Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto. Yesterday, Mukabwa said NASA aspirants are facing difficulties in their campaigns as they are unable to respond to questions by their supporters on who the candidate is. Mukabwa will run for the Senate seat on the ANC ticket. He said the anxiety caused by NASA’s lack of a presidential candidate is giving opponents undue advantage. “The committee has exposed the NASA fraternity to bashing, left, right and centre, by Jubilee as a confused lot that is unable to settle on a candidate,” Mukabwa said. “Aspirants must know which presidential candidate we shall campaign for.” A meeting by the four principals on Tuesday failed to take off, escalating speculations that the opposition coalition could be in disarray. 