Opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday sensationally linked a Sh28 billion loan from the UAE to Kenya to a controversial tender to operate the first phase of the Second Container Terminal at the port of Mombasa. Raila said the bilateral loan – signed between the Jubilee administration and the United Arab Emirates last October – was a “bribe” to influence the award of the lucrative port management deal to Dubai Port World. He claimed the loan was approved on condition that the UAE government will appoint an agent to operate, manage, and undertake the expansion of the second container terminal at the port. The UAE firm, shortlisted among 11 other firms in April 2015, was the least qualified, the opposition chief said. He said a consortium of China’s PSA International, which had partnered with a local group Multi Hauliers, emerged top in the shortlist. Raila questioned why the Kenyan government allowed DP World, an agent of the UAE government, to manage the SCT, despite knowing it was floored in the tendering process. The UAE loan was for enhancing operational and business efficiencies at the SCT. Part of the funds were also to be spent on development of Kipevu Oil Terminal. “It would appear the UAE did not win, but purchased the management of our second container terminal at a cost of $275 million,” he said. “Loans are usually sought for specific projects. This particular one appears to be looking around for something to finance as long as the port deal is delivered.” In September 2016, parliament approved a Sh27.3 billion loan from Japan International Cooperation Agency for constructions of the second phase of SCT. Uhuru commissioned the first phase of the mega project later that month. The management of the SCT is, however, being contested in court. KPA is currently running the facility. However, Raila was pessimistic saying the decision has already been made and court decision might not influence anything. “Can Uhuru prove to Kenyans that the so called loan from the UAE was not a bribe to sway the contract in favor of Dubai?” he said in Mombasa at a press conference. “What was the purpose of the tender when the job ended up being given to the defeated bidder?” In August 2015, Japan International Co-operation Agency chief representative, Hideo Uguchi in a letter to National Treasury, protested the selection of an agent to manage SCT, saying this could affect its aid to Kenya.   