Thousands of Australians
abandoned their homes as a powerful cyclone bore down on coastal
towns in Queensland on Monday, while others ignored authorities'
advice to evacuate with winds forecast to reach up to 300 km per
hour (185 mph). Cyclone Debbie is a forecast to strengthen to a Category
four storm before it makes landfall in the northeast state early
on Tuesday, the Australian Bureau of Meteorology said. State Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk warned it would be the
most powerful storm to hit the country since Cyclone Yasi in
2011, which destroyed homes, shredded crops and devastated
island resorts. About 3,500 people left low-lying townships near Townsville,
while authorities advised 2,000 more people in the town of Bowen
to also leave, Palaszczuk said, adding that the "window of
opportunity to leave is drastically closing" as weather worsens. "This is going to be a nasty cyclone," Palaszczuk told Nine
Network television. "These wind gusts are going to be absolutely
huge." A category five storm is the strongest on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson scale of hurricane intensity. The Abbot Point coal terminal and ports at Mackay and Hay
Point were closed until further notice, ports spokeswoman Fiona
Cunningham said. BHP Billiton suspended operations at its
South Walker Creek coal mine, which is just to the south of the
cyclone's expected path. Gales were already lashing the tourist resorts at Airlie
Beach and the Whitsunday Islands. Townsville Airport was closed and airlines Qantas,
Jetstar, Rex and Virgin Australia said they had
cancelled several flights to and from the region scheduled for
Monday and Tuesday. Pictures showed residents who had stayed behind protecting
homes and shops with sandbags and plywood boards. "We'll just give it a go and rally together," Cungulla
resident Mike Kennedy told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation. Queensland produces some 95 percent of Australian bananas
and while Cyclone Debbie is on course to miss the largest
growing regions in the state's far north, analysts said heavy
rains and strong winds could cause significant crop damage. The cyclone is expected to miss most of region's coal mines,
weather and mining data in Thomson Reuters Eikon shows, and no
major dry-bulk vessels are in storm's path. Police blamed the wild weather associated with the storm for
a traffic accident in which a 31-year-old female tourist died.
Police did not give the woman's nationality.