International Women&rsquo;s Day, globally celebrated on March 8, is a day to commemorate economic, political and social achievements of women in the past, present and future. This includes looking back on past struggles and accomplishments, while looking ahead on untapped potential and opportunities that await future generations of women.This year, the global theme is &lsquo;Bold for change&rsquo;. In Kenya, the change we seek is an ultimate end to gender-based violence and child marriage. These remain major barriers to the realisation of gender equality and are a threat to public health and economic growth. If women, girls, men and boys are not safe, they cannot be full citizens nor fully participate in the development of their society.According to the United Nations Population Fund 2008 report, &ldquo;Gender-based violence both reflects and reinforces inequities between men and women and compromises the health, dignity, security, and autonomy of its victims&rdquo;.The 2014 Kenya Demographic and Household Survey indicates that GBV occurs in all parts of the country. Some 47 per cent of women and 40 per cent of men aged between 15 and 49 have experienced either physical or sexual violence.Similarly a study by the National Crime Research Centre revealed that the lifetime prevalence of GBV for women stands at 38 per cent. Child marriage is a form of GBV. Statistics indicate that one in every three girls is married before the age of 18, and one in every nine girls is married before the age of 15. Victims of GBV are robbed of the people they were prior to the abuse. They struggle to heal and face the world in their broken state. The physical and psychological consequences of GBV to the victims are long-lasting and devastating, impeding their ability to fully participate in the social and economic processes.Apart from individual, community, family and society costs, GBV also has huge economic consequences at all levels. The economic burden of GBV is estimated to be Sh46 billion. The cost of post-rape care services in the public health sector alone is estimated at Sh239 million. Thus tackling GBV is crucial for poverty reduction, economic development and actualisation of gender equality.Kenya has made key commitments to end GBV. It has set up a strong legal and policy environment and has embarked on a comprehensive programme with a multi-pronged approach to eliminate the vice. However, these measures are of naught if we the citizenry do not stand up and speak against the violence.We issue a rallying call to all Kenyans to actively participate in beheading these plagues that ravage our society. If not out of concern for our fellow sisters and brothers, then to fully realise and actualise Kenyans&rsquo; full potential towards national development. Jitokeze - Step up, Speak up against gender-based violence.We have to get out of the shadows of watching in silence as domestic violence, sexual violence or child marriage are perpetrated. Being passive watchers does not excuse us, nor does it make us any less guilty than the perpetrators. It just makes us passive perpetrators and participators. Silence in the face of violence condones this violation of human dignity and normalises it. Let&rsquo;s break the silence.To be the difference means to stand up, speak out and break the silence. It means reporting the incidences as they happen. There are toll-free hotlines, such as Jitokeze1195. It also means taking active responsibility to protect and be our brothers and sisters&rsquo; keepers. Then we shall have beheaded these plague that ravages our society and threatens to destroy the fabric that is the promising, ever developing Kenya.Zeinab W Hussein is Gender Affairs PS, Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs. psgender@gmail.com