President Uhuru Kenyatta was directly involved in cutting a political deal between Suleiman Shahbal and Ananiah Mwaboza to face Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. The Star has established the President summoned the duo to State House in Mombasa on January 7, where he urged them to end political bickering that had rocked Jubilee in Mombasa. Both Shahbal and Mwaboza were competing for the Jubilee ticket. Mwaboza has agreed to be Shahbal's running mate. Insiders said the President argued that Jubilee should work for unity to ensure Joho is defeated. On January 5, the governor publicly dismissed the launch of the Mombasa Storm Water Drainage System by Uhuru, saying it was an old project. Mwaboza said Uhuru felt Joho’s actions might influence other governors in the country to start disrespecting the presidency. “He called us and said, ‘look at the Star newspaper - this man here. There is need for him to go home not because of me, Uhuru Kenyatta, as the President, but because of the respect of the Republic of Kenya and other nations in the world’,” Mwaboza said. The Star had carried an article about the incident, where Joho told off Uhuru not to ride on projects started by the previous regime. On Thursday last week, Mwaboza explained to his supporters how they struck an agreement with Shahbal to be his running mate. His supporters accused him of betraying them, which he denied. Uhuru instructed the duo to agree how they would work together as he believes they have the strength to unseat Joho. Shahbal and Mwaboza appointed teams of 15 people each to come up with an amicable solution to their rivalry. The first meeting in Mombasa did not bear fruit. Another breakfast meeting between the two was held in Nairobi, where they agreed to appoint teams of six people each. A third meeting was held at the Castle Royal Hotel in Mombasa, with both Shahbal and Mwaboza bringing their teams of six members. Mwaboza’s team consisted of Mzee Kai, Patrick Mangale, Janet Jawambe, Advocate Okanga, seafarer Hemed Zula and former Mwembe Tayari councillor Lowa. Shahbal’s team included Kenya Ferry Services chairman Ramadhan Kajembe, Mijikenda Youth Forum chairperson Nyonga wa Makemba, former KPA boss Jonathan Mturi, Sheikh Hassan Omar from a mosque in Ganjoni, Dock Workers Union general secretary Simon Sang and Shahbal’s close ally Janet Mbete. The Castle Royal meeting was chaired by Uhuru’s uncle George Muhoho, who was assisted by Bishop Joseph Maisha and Shipping and Maritime Affairs PS Nancy Karigithu. Muhoho ordered Shahbal and Mwaboza to leave the meeting as their lieutenants remained. Acknowledging the teams were made up of mostly Mijikenda members, Muhoho told them to divide power equally. Mwaboza said a 40:30:30 formula was proposed, with him taking 40 per cent of the positions, Shahbal 30 per cent and the other 30 per cent to be taken up by upcountry communities. This formula was however rejected. Another 50:50 formula was then proposed, failure to which the duo would go for nominations with the winner becoming the flag bearer and the loser his running mate, he noted “We reached the agreement in the presence of Deputy President William Ruto at English Point Marina. Uhuru called on the phone and said, ‘If you do not agree, I, Uhuru Kenyatta, will wash my hands off Mombasa politics. Decide between the two of you and help your people’,” Mwaboza said. However, Makemba on Tuesday told the Star on phone he was in the meeting at Castle Royal but there was no discussion on the 50:50 formula of sharing power. “Unless it was done while I was not there…I was in the committee and I did not hear anything to do with 50:50,” said Makemba. He said the main agenda of the meeting was to bring Shahbal and Mwaboza together and sharing of party positions was not on the agenda. Mbete said the 50:50 matter was raised at the Castle Royal meeting but was rejected. “Members brought it up but it was not passed,” Mbete told the Star on phone Tuesday. She noted that people at the meeting felt having a 50:50 power sharing deal would not be any different from the two going through nominations, with the winner taking it all. Jawambe said the 50:50 deal was raised at the Castle Royal meeting but no agreement was made. “The mediation teams postponed the discussion until the two came to an agreement,” said Jawambe on phone Tuesday. Shahbal and Mwaboza later came to agree on the deal after Ruto intervened, noted Jawambe. She said the Castle Royal meeting was solely to seek cohesion between Shahbal and Mwaboza, which was the priority. Last Thursday, Mwaboza told his supporters: “I swallowed my pride and decided to be Shahbal’s running mate. I did not put any demands to be repaid all the money I had used to campaign.” said Mwaboza. “As soon as we were united with Shahbal, we decided that we will walk the journey together and forget the past,” Mwaboza said. 