Two politicians
are vigorously campaigning for the
Bungoma Senate seat to face off Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula in case he decides to defend his position. Those battling
to unseat him include political analyst David Makali and Commission for University Education deputy CEO
Juma Mukhwana. Wetang’ula
is fighting to be picked the NASA presidential candidate. Others seeking to be NASA presidential flagbearer are ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi. His close confidants
have hinted that he has not ruled out any other political position. Wetang'ula has already gone back to his Bungoma backyard and told his
supporters to accept whatever seat he
will go for. “I have
gone to hunt for an elephant, but my people accept even if I bring back a hare," the senator has said on several occasions. Speaking to
the Star yesterday, Mukhwana, who is seeking the Jubilee Party ticket to run for the seat, said he is ready for Wetang’ula. He said Wetang'ula has failed
as senator and has been concentrating on
nursing big ambitions of the presidency and personal fights with Governor Kenneth Lusaka at the
expense of the people of Bungoma. “I'm ready
to tackle Wetang’ula, having worked as his chief campaigner in the last
election, I Know all his tricks. He will lose terribly even with his so-called
NASA leader,” Mukhwana said. Mukhwana, who
has lost three parliamentary bids in Kanduyi and Kabuchai, said
his last defeat taught him important political lessons. “Losing my
last election in different constituencies strengthened me because I have
learnt lots of lessons,” he said Makali said, “I welcome
and invite Wetang’ula for the mother of all battles because I'm willing and ready to hand him
defeat.” He said
he has an impeccable understanding on Bungoma county and the oversight role in
devolution. Although Makali applauds Wetang’ula for having worked
well as senator, he blames him for stagnating development
through personal wars with Governor Lusaka. “I appreciate that Wetang’ula has put Bungoma county on the map by being a good
legislator and being active in the national politics. But he failed by concentrating on the
national politics, fighting the governor and forgetting his oversight role,” he
said. Makali said
the county needs fresh leadership that will unite all leaders. He said he will soon announce the party he will run with after he resigned from the Labour Party of Kenya after differing with party leader Ababu Namwamba. But political analyst Philip Wanyonyi says Wetang’ula should accept that he will not be the NASA presidential flagbearer. Wetang'ula launched his presidential bid in April last year at Muliro Gardens in Kakamega.