While devolution means many things to different people, its most obvious meaning is development at the grassroots level for Wanjikus . Of course, this does not mean devolution should exclude all elites from development. However, attention should be paid to Wanjiku because she is the most excluded person from development today. Should we accept this definition of devolution by taking more resources and development to the middle class elites than to Wanjiku then it will have failed. When I recently visited Kondamet and Kondet schools in North Kuresoi, I was surprised to hear the chairman of the former say the people of that area did not know devolution, because they had enjoyed none of the benefits such as roads, water, hospitals, good schools or industries to create employment. According to Wanjiku, if government whether national or county does not provide essentials of life such water, shelter, food and schools, it cannot be devolution but the same elite system we had before. But if devolution has not accommodated Wanjiku, whose devolution is it? From the governors, county executive, speaker, MCAs and ordinary people, whom can devolution be said to belong? There is little doubt that, at least from their looks, the elites are real owners of devolution, not the ordinary people. Though we said devolution belonged to Wanjiku, in reality, we did not do anything to stop the elite from grabbing and owning it, as is the case today. Today, therefore, devolution belongs more to elites than to the poor. As to devolution being an engine of development or propelling society forward, the truth is that it has has done little to develop most areas where ordinary people reside. It, therefore, surprises none to notice that, despite four years of the national government pouring hundreds of billions of shillings to the counties, when you go to rural centers of Nakuru county such as Bahati, Subukia, Molo, Kinungi, Mai Mahiu, Naivasha or Gil Gil, Kiambogo or Maraigishu, they look exactly what they were four years ago, if not worse. In fact, if there is any development in these centers, it is what individuals have put into it, not anything from the county government. MPs can even be said to have done more with millions of CDF money than what governors have done with their billions of devolution. Unbelievably, with Sh151 million of CDF money, the 197 projects that I launched in schools, water, dispensaries, health centers, cattle dips, bridges and police stations, I outnumber the fewer projects the county has started with Sh45 billion it has received. But what is the genesis of this underdevelopment in the counties? Is there something in our devolved system that can be said to be inimical to development? Certainly corruption, negative ethnicity and non-industrialisation are two factors that greatly enhance underdevelopment in counties. Already Kenya, including our counties, has become nationally and internationally known for corruption, which minimises, diminishes and degrades all our development efforts and projects. If we steal from our agricultural projects, it means we shall have less food and more hunger. If we steal from our hospitals, it means we shall have less medicine and more deaths. If we steal from our road projects, it means we shall have worse roads and more accidents. If we steal from our schools and educational projects, it means we shall have less education and more ignorant people. From our knowledge of other countries, no development is possible in counties, if they are overwhelmed by corruption, whose primary function is to subtract, not add to development. Overwhelmed with unemployment, to develop and have peace and stability, counties must industrialise to produce products that will earn us foreign exchange and create job opportunities that will eliminate youth unemployment, idleness and criminality. If no countries or counties have developed without industries, no Kenyan counties will. Yet counties will have no funds for investment in industries if all money for development is stolen by leaders and the powerful. Ultimately no counties will develop if they are engulfed in ethnic fires and divisions fueled by negative ethnicity that has become ideology of our politics. How then can people develop in counties where people have to be persuaded to live together and be our brother s keeper? To have devolution of, by and for Wanjikus, we must not create county governments of, by and for the elites as is the case today. Deliberately, devolution must favor those who are downtrodden, oppressed and exploited and not be owned by leaders and the rich. Without the effort to eliminate poverty by uplifting the poor who are the foundation of all societies, devolution will mean nothing to those it must mean the most.Considering everything, counties and their devolution have failed more than they have succeeded.