A woman, about 40 years-old, was on Wednesday paraded at Thika's Majengo estate for luring young girls to sleep with a HIV positive man. Mary Wanjiru was ejected from her house and forced to carry a placard identifying her as the brain behind the 'trade' in the town. Members of the public also forced her to loudly confess her evil deeds after one of the girls he engaged complained about her antics. The victim, who is yet to turn 18 - the legal age of sexual consent - said the woman introduced her to a 'rich man' on Monday last week. She said that Wanjiru - her mother's friend - took her to a hotel in Thika where they were to have a good time with the said man. "Wanjiru told us the man was rich and could buy us anything we wanted, urging us to use the opportunity to fleece the man," the victim said. "Later on Friday, he invited us for a meal at the hotel where we were supposed to spend the evening," the girl said. Luckily for the minors, a close friend of the family spotted them and informed their mother who asked them to leave the hotel. The girls boarded a Tuk Tuk and rushed home where they were told that the man was said to be HIV-positive. Upon interrogation, the girl revealed that the man had promised to sponsor her birthday party at Sh30,000. The girl's phone call logs showed that the man attempted to reach her twice after that meeting. The girl’s mother was short of words as she could not imagine that her neighbour and friend could do that to her. She claimed that Wanjiru, on the said day, kept monitoring her movements, probably to warn the man in case of anything that might scuttle the plan. "We have worked with her for long. I cannot believe that she can scheme such an evil plan against my own daughter," the girl's mother said. However, she has declined to press any charges against the woman or the man since, according to her, her daughter was not harmed. "Since God has saved my children from this danger, I am not willing to press any charges against them," she said. Wanjiru admitted that she introduced the girls to the man but claimed that she warned them about his HIV status. Read: Thousands of HIV negative Kenyans to be put on ARVs to prevent infection Also read: HIV infection rates are increasing among adolescents - report More on this: HIV: Why men are falling behind   