It was a modest intervention — a drop in the ocean of global climate finance — yet it has made the difference between profit and loss for a group of businesswomen in Makueni county. Ever since their cooperative, Huruma Asili, began receiving daily weather updates via mobile phone a year ago, fewer of their sliced mangoes turn an unsellable shade of black when laid out to dry. The service sprang not from a one-size-fits-all template drawn up by a government ministry or a far-flung aid agency, but from the women’s own considered response to a simple question posed by their peers to the whole neighbourhood: “What do you need to lessen the harm of climate change?” It’s a bottom-up approach that underpins fledgling local adaptation initiatives in Kenya, one of the largest recipients of climate finance in sub-Saharan Africa. It also paves the way for the country’s 47 counties to gain access to major sources of money, such as the UN’s Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund, which was set up under the Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Climate change has made the weather not only more dramatic but less predictable, so what the women of Huruma Asili needed to make ends meet was the certainty of a full day’s sunshine. Decisive data A few overcast hours are enough to lower the temperature and raise the humidity in their plastic-covered drying sheds to the point where ruinous putrefaction overtakes value-adding desiccation. Properly cured, the bright yellow mangoes are sold for Sh500 per kilo to a Japanese exporter based in Nairobi. If discoloured, the fruit is worthless and has to be discarded. “When the ward committee asked us what we wanted, we told them: Accurate information on the weather so that we know when to dry our mangoes,” said Rehema Madaga, whose association, set up in Makueni county in 2006, also sells dried pumpkins, a variety of vegetables and chickpeas. Every afternoon now, the Kenya Meteorological Department sends the women a very localised weather forecast in a text message to their mobile phones. “This has helped us stop losses due to blackening of the mangoes when we dried them and then the weather turned cloudy or rainy,” explained Madaga. In several counties nationwide, neighbourhood climate change planning committees made up of ward residents are working on the front lines of adaptation to climate change, from initial project conception, through execution, to evaluation and financial oversight. Unlocking finance Makueni is one of five counties in Kenya’s arid and semi-arid regions where the financing of climate change adaptation projects by local rather than national administrations is being piloted. The aim is that these local governments’ climate change funds will evolve into what, in the jargon of international climate finance, are termed subnational “implementing/executing entities”, a status that allows them to tap into national and international funding pots, which have strict conditions for disbursements. These will include the Green Climate Fund, which, when running at full capacity by 2,020, will have around Sh10 trillion to spend every year, half of it on adaptation projects (some Sh1 trillion has already been pledged to the fund). Currently, funding in the five pilot counties comes from the UK’s Department for International Development and is channelled through an adaptation consortium made up of government bodies and various local and international NGOs. By the end of 2017, the consortium, which also helps counties set up their climate change funds, estimates that some 2.5 million Kenyans will have benefited from adaptation projects. In Makueni, nine projects were carried out in six of the county’s 30 wards last year. This year, all wards are expected to benefit and the county has set aside about Sh60,000,000.