In politics you need to be combative but moderate your combat. The President is not appreciating the fact there will always be other voices and opinions and he doesn't have a monopoly on correct opinion about everything in the country. So he needs to tolerate criticism.He needs to know this is not the environment in which he grew up, where he probably got everything the way he wanted. Today this is about public service and the country. He must know very well people will criticise him.In other words, this behaviour indicates intolerance. It has been building and now that we are nearing the elections, he finds he cannot take the heat anymore. He has started grasping the reality that he could be losing territory where he is being criticised.This is an indication of failure and defeat. If you look at the doctors' strike, we expected a final deal but the President's outbursts threw a spanner in the works. So, this indicates somebody who is getting defeated by the assignment that he has been given.The President needs something called sobriety in the totality of the expression. He needs to approach issues with total sobriety and needs to have around him people with sober minds. He needs people who can interrogate situations; people who can think about worst-case scenarios in any given domain and people who can think of answers with him, so he can take a sober and dignified approach to everything.Left on his own, the President is going to do himself even more harm .This is what you get with a youthful leadership with youthful advisers and without the possibility of the wisdom of age. Are any elders anywhere around him? This is the time they need to enter the picture and help to moderate him. His father could throw tantrums because those were the days of a one-party state when dissent was not allowed.But the ground has shifted. He cannot do today the things his father did and got away with. The context is completely different. He is dealing with an educated population that was not there back then. He is dealing with a population that has fought and defeated post-colonial autocracy.The President is dealing with a population now governed by a new and democratic Constitution and he can't do anything about that.