A section of ODM leaders were heard whispering that Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto should be admitted as new principals in the National Super Alliance. According to one legislator, the two have proved their political worth in their backyards and their elevation would further consolidate the regions. Both governors were admiringly described as fearless and ardent supporters of devolution. A poll by research firm Tifa yesterday showed that Joho is the undisputed Coast kingpin. The man, referred to by his ODM admirers as “Superman”, stepped into Raila Odinga’s shoes to traverse the Coast counties when the ODM leader was away in the US. ***** A top Jubilee leader is in the process of acquiring a three-star hotel in the city centre. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man is acquiring the facility at a cost of Sh5.8 billion. Those familiar with the deal said the man inspected the facility late in the night a few days ago to avoid raising suspicions. However, of concern is where the man is getting the cash to acquire the hotel at such an exorbitant cost. The hotel is a large storeyed building, but most of its space has been turned into commercial offices. ***** What happened to Kanu and its high-profile campaigns? Well, there are concerns that the Independence party has beaten the retreat in classic Tufunge Safari style since it announced that it will back President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection bid. A Kanu aspirant was heard bitterly complaining in a city hotel that the decision to back Uhuru was wrong and has lowered the party’s profile in national politics. Kanu boss Gideon Moi has previously hinted that he could make a stab at the Presidency in 2022. Some however feel that he ought to have continued antagonising DP William Ruto to test his political clout. ***** Is the government fully committed to ensuring security for all Kenyans, regardless of their social status? Most of the time the state has been reactive, intensifying security only when its citizens are hard-hit by insecurity, as in the case of the ongoing KDF operation in the volatile North Rift to flush out bandits. Word has it that most of the CCTV cameras and screening machines installed at entrances of public buildings are ‘dead’ and people accessing the facilities walk freely without undergoing a thorough inspection. It is said screening machines and CCTV at Parliament Buildings that cost taxpayers millions of shillings are among nonfunctional equipment that only becomes operational following a terror attack or intelligence information about an impending attack. It is said there was an unsuccessful attempt to repair the machines during President Uhuru’s visit to Parliament for the State of the Nation Address.