Hundreds of striking nurses at Embu Level 5 Hospital yesterday stormed CEO Dr Moses Njue’s office and accused him of trying to intimidate them. The nurses, who have joined their counterparts in the nationwide strike, are demanding the signing of their collective bargaining agreement. The strike started on June 5 and is in its 115th day today. Counties say they don’t have the money to fund the CBA. A court has declared the strike illegal. They protested against alleged sacking threats by the CEO for participating in the strike. The nurses stormed Njue’s office and demanded audience with him. He was not in the office at the time. The nurses said Njue had no authority to try to threaten them with any disciplinary action. They said they are not employed by the hospital, but by the county government. The nurses were accompanied by their officials, led by their secretary Joseph Ngwaci. They said they will continue with their strike until the Council of Governors agrees to sign the CBA. “Our demands are affordable,” they said. The nurses further opposed the planned privatisation of the hospital as proposed by the county. They said the move will hurt services, leading to suffering of residents who depend on the facility. The nurses said privatisation of the hospital is ill-conceived and unfair to them. Governor Martin Wambora, during his county assembly opening speech a fortnight ago, said his administration plans to privatise the hospital for better services. But the move has generated heated debate. Some MCAs oppose sale of the facility, others support it. The nurses said they are unmoved by sacking threats from the county, saying the strike is legal and provided for in the Constitution. They said their strike will only end after their demands are met. Meanwhile, services at the hospital have continued to deteriorate owing to the strike. Only limited services are being offered by clinical officers and doctors. Private hospitals are overstretched, but they are doing booming business as the residents flock there.