Tourism CS Najib Balala was on Tuesday elected chair of the UN Word Tourism Organisation Commission for Africa in Chengdu, China. Balala will serve for two years until 2019 if President Uhuru Kenyatta wins the October 17 presidential election. Kenya submitted its candidature for the post during the 59th meeting of the UNWTO Commission for Africa held on April 18-21 in Addis Ababa Ethiopia. The Democratic Republic of Congo sought the vice chair position for the African commission. UNWTO is the United Nations agency responsible for promoting responsible and sustainable universal tourism as as a driver of economic growth. The UNWTO has five other regional commissions which are the Americas, East Asia and the Pacific, Europe, Middle East and South Asia. Each ‎commission elects a chair and vice chairman from its members ‎for a term of two years, commencing from one session to the
next session of the ‎assembly.‎‎ Balala returned to the Tourism
docket from the Ministry of Mining on November 24, 2015, having served
in the same capacity under the Grand Coalition government from 2008 to 2012. For the first time since 2012, earnings from the tourism
sector improved by 17.8 per cent from Sh84.6 billion in 2015 to Sh99.7
billion in 2016, according the Economic Survey 2017. the
number of international visitor arrivals rose by 13.5 per cent to 1,340
in 2016. After his appointment, Balala said his immediate task would be to
publish and implement recommendations of the Tourism Recovery Task Force
appointed by his predecessor, Phyllis Kandie, to save the poorly performing sector. In December 2015, the CS announced the waiving of landing fees for Charter Airlines touching down
at Mombasa's Moi International and Malindi
airports to help recover lost
business. In February last year, the minister appointed Jonah Orumoi as acting CEO
of the Tourism Finance Corporation, following the exit of Marianne Ndegwa whose six-year term had expired. During
the Tourism Summit at State House in August last year, Balala reported the sector had started registering marked improvement, with 14
per cent
growth between January and June. He said full recovery is expected in
2018. The slump was occasioned by increased insecurity-related woes and travel advisories from key Western markets.