A family from Mbai farm area in
Kiminini constituency Tranzoia county is seeking a help of 4.5 Million
shillings for their daughter’s medical bill. The family said that there 23 years
old Emaculate Khaemba has been admitted at Nairobi’s women hospital for the
past three months. Emmanuel Khaemba the father to the
girl told journalists yesterday at their home that her daughter was attacked
by thugs in a matatu she had boarded to work in Nairobi. My daughter who is a third year at
Karatina University pursuing medicine was on a filled attachment at Mbagathi hospital
and was on her way to work before the incident. ‘She had taken the matatu from the
estate she lived  at 6AM and inside the
matatu she was attacked by thugs who stole her phone and hand bag before
pushing her out of the matatu,’ he said. He said the car that was following behind hit her
and broke her left hand and leg and gave her major injuries all over her body. He said she was rushed by good samaritans to several
hospitals where she did not get treatment as at that time is when the nurses strike
was at pick and later she was taken to Nairobi women’s hospital where she was
in a coma for two weeks. ‘We reported the matter to police but no one has
ever been arrested in connection to the attack on our daughter,’ he added. ‘I had a small section of land that I have sold and
yet the money does not get enough to clear the bill am so much disturbed I do
not know what to do,’ said the teary father. ‘I am now appealing for help since soon I might become
a squatter if I sale all my land to bail out my daughter,’ he added. ‘Am with deep humility calling upon My MP Chris Wamalwa,
women rep Janet Nangabo and governor Patrick Khaemba to kindly intervene and
help as out,’ he added. The girl’s mother Catherine Nekessa said that her daughter
had been supporting her very much by even assisting in fees of her young
siblings. She said that she is saddened that her daughter who
she has sacrificed a lot for is now being fed through machines. Nekesa said that she and her husband are jobless and
only engage in small scale farming and have no one to turn to for help. The mother of four said that her daughter was her
only hope that she banked on in future and asked well wishers to intervene. ‘As our daughter is still in hospital the bill is accumulating
daily and if we get anyone who wants this our remaining piece of land we will
sell it and go and discharge her and move to rental houses,’ she said. Those who wish t help can send there contributions to pay bill number 855341 or the fathers number 0729099283.