A story is told about a bad man whose sins had finally caught up with him.  The king of that country ordered he be executed immediately. However, he made one vehement request that he be allowed only one year, in which he would teach the king’s horse how to fly. He got the king’s attention and went ahead to convince him that if the year ended with him unable to teach the horse to fly, he would then gladly accept the execution orders. The king then showed the man to the stables and presented him with his finest horse with instructions that it must fly within a year. Later, when the man was asked why he had chosen to undertake what was obviously a difficult task, he replied, “In a year, many things could happen, the king could die, the horse could die, or it could actually learn to fly!” In short, he was postponing his own death by hedging on other events, which could actually get him freedom. But what would happen if the king didn’t die or the horse didn’t die or learn to fly? The same situation happened to Raila Odinga, when the Supreme Court annulled the presidential election. They simply opened the election, but they did not throw it wide open. They did not materially improve the chances of Raila winning but instead, gave him a new lease of life — only for a while. Then IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati fixed that new lease to just 42 days after the ruling. However, instead of teaching the horse to fly, Raila has spent his waking moments doing everything other than what would earn him a ticket to State House. SELF-IMMOLATING MOVES Trust Raila to make self-immolating political moves. First, he chose to start by fighting the rerun day in what came out as a big sign of unpreparedness. He even went ahead to ask for the school examination programme to be pushed ahead if only to give him more time to ‘prepare’. Deputy President William Ruto quickly followed by telling him that he didn’t know what it means to prepare for eight or four years for a national examination: He never took any national examination in Kenya after all. As a kid, I read about the ‘Minutemen’ of the American Revolution — patriots who only required a minute’s notice and they were ready to fight the British. Not Raila: He needed more time to ‘prepare’ for the battle against Jubilee. HOW TO RAISE VOTER APATHY The constant mantra of ‘stolen election’ is only feeding voter apathy, which is why NASA may be whittling itself down in his own strongholds unawares. What will prevent these people from saying, “Why should we vote when they are going to steal anyway?” Besides, we are just barely out of a round of electioneering and already signs of voter fatigue are showing. In fact, if the figures of the last round of voting are anything to go by, then one could already see that voter fatigue had reared his ugly head. It is likely to get worse this time round. Many people are just praying that they get over and done with the process and they move on with their lives.  However, Raila is not concerned with this class of people, many of whom are his own supporters. Again, choosing to fight individuals at the IEBC and not systems — for which he won the case — is only serving further self-inflicting political wounds. Raila should be urgently concerned with the loss of allies in his strong support bases. He already rubbed the Somali community up the wrong way by instigating the removal of former IEBC chairman Issack Hassan, and now calling for the removal of Commissioner Abdi Guliye. Already, members of the Somali community have rallied around one of their own in what is just going to be a big win for Jubilee. PANHANDLING IN POLITICS Then Raila told all of us that he is running broke. He sent all the wrong signals when images of him and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka publicly panhandling with an M-Pesa Paybill number (of all things). This has become the fodder for political mockery swamping on social media. In fact,. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria sent Sh5 to the number just to deride him. What he was also unintentionally telling us is that his main financiers have backed off and that they are now struggling to make ends meet. While we really don’t know if this is true, perception is everything in politics. And if you must raise money directly from the people, then there are more organised methods of doing it but, in Kenya you cannot crowd-fund a presidential campaign. They were probably inspired by President Barack Obama’s method in crowd-funding for his campaign but you must realise that Kenya is not America. The political dynamics of the two nations are very different. Independent candidates and those from the smaller parties did not dare crowd-fund.  In Kenya, a nation that has more people who live under the poverty line, there are certain things that they don’t do very well. One is to fund celebrities in need. Second is to fund politicians. In my opinion, what NASA should have done is to create autonomous support groups that can finance themselves through crowd funding. The end will still be met without telling us other stories. A series of fundraising dinners with fixed-price plates graced by NASA principals would have done very well.   In short, it is probably time to stop doing things the same way and expecting a different result. 