An epileptic woman from Mwema village in Kigumo sub-county, Murang’a, has accused an assistant chief of chasing her from her property. Lucy Wairimu, 27, has cried out for help saying adminstrator Peter Ng’ang’a, who is her uncle, ganged up with her two brothers to lock her out of the property she inherited from her father. Wairimu said her late father included her and her sister in his will but that the family turned against them after he died. She said it was after her brothers started selling parcels of land that she filed a lawsuit in a bid to stop them. "My brothers then ganged up with the assistant chief and started beating me up and intimidating me." Wairimu said she relocated from her father's home to her uncle's in fear of her life but the three still followed her. She said fighting for her rights against an administrator has been an uphill task and that she now has many scars from regular beatings. "I have reported the matter at Saba Saba police station and even obtained a P3 form but they are yet to be arrested," Wairimu narrated. The administrator’s brother Joseph Mwaura has appealed to police to take action against the three accused people. Mwaura said the lot has been breaking into his home and attacking him for living with the sisters. The attacks, he said, even caused his form four daughter not to write her mocks exams as they had to seek a hideout for the family. Reached for comment, the assistant chief said he would call back to comment on the matter but did not answer phone calls later. Area chief Muiruri Kabugua said he has received information concerning the conflict. Kabugua said the family has been locked in unending disagreements over property since their wealthy parents passed away. The chief said he has tried to reconcile the relatives and has planned a meeting this Saturday. "But since they engaged in physical fights, the matter will now be dealt with in accordance with the law," the chief said. He said the three will be arrested and charged with assault once police conclude their investigations. 