President Uhuru Kenyatta has revealed he was "really angry" when the Supreme Court ruled against his re-election. Uhuru admitted this on Wednesday but noted his problem was with the court's decision, not the Kisii community. After about a week of hearings, Chief Justice David Maraga announced a historical ruling that nullified the President's victory and ordered a repeat on October 17. This was the judgement on NASA candidate Raila Odinga's petition in which he detailed irregularities. More on this: Not yet Uhuru Also read: Maraga was the man for the case, Tom Ojienda says on election ruling Uhuru criticised the court and even said the Judiciary has a problem that needed a fix. Today he said: "Wengine wetu tulikuwa na uchungu mwingi...hata mimi ni binadamu na nilikuwa nimekasirika sana (Some of us were in a lot of pain...I am human and I was very annoyed)." In his address to Kisii leaders in Nakuru on Wednesday, he likened the cancellation of his victory to losing a bull after buying it. "Hata wewe ukienda kwa soko ukanunua ngombe akaibwa, halafu polisi apate huyo ng'ombe. Kisha hiyo kesi ipelekwe kortini na kwa sababu haukuwa na p3 form unanyimwa ng'ombe. Huo ni ungwana (If you go to a mark and buy a cow and then it is stolen...police find it and there is a court case but you are not allowed to take the animal because you don't have a p3 form...Is that sensible?" "Wewe ungesikia namna gani? Mimi sina shida na wakisii but niko na shida na uamuzi ule (How would you feel? I don't have a problem with Kisiis but I have a problem with the verdict)." 'VICTORY STOLEN IN BROAD DAYLIGHT' Uhuru reiterated his victory was "stolen in broad daylight" and said the court should have "at least directed that ballot papers be counted afresh". "Unaibiwa mchana na unaona. Afadhali korti ingesema wafungue masanduku wahesabu ballot papers. Kwani walidhani nitacheka nikisikia huo uamuzi? Lazima ujitetee...si ni ukweli..ama si ukweli (They steal from you during the day as you see them. It would have been better if the court had ordered a recount of ballot papers. Did they think I would laugh after the determination? You must defend yourself...isn't that the truth)?" More on claims: Raila stole my victory by misleading Supreme Court, says Uhuru The Jubilee leader said his party wants peace in the elections period. "We want one Kenya and we want peace. Hata kama tuliibiwa wacha tukubali. Vile Mungu alitujalia August 8 ndiyo vile atatuongoza October 17 ndiyo wakenya waendelee na maisha yao (Even if they stole from us, let us accept [reality]. The same way God favoured us on August 8 is the same way he will favour us on October 17 so Kenyans can return to their lives)," he said. He noted that when the IEBC announced him the winner, the Opposition started fighting and burning kiosks. "I will not allow this," he emphasised. "Wenzetu walianza kuchoma kiosks vile nilishinda...wenzetu walianza kuchoma vitu...Sasa jameni basi imekufanyia nini? Mwenye kiosk amekufanyia nini (Our opponents started burning kiosks when I won...they started burning things...surely, what has a bus done to you? What has the kiosk owner done to you)?"he posed. "Kama kuna kitu sitakubali ni mwenye ataleta fujo..hatutaruhusu kamwe (If there is anything I will not allow it is chaos and its perpetrators)." This was part of the President's message during the opening of the 12th Parliament on Tuesday. More on this: [SPEECH] Respect oaths, fulfill campaign pledges, Uhuru tells 12th Parliament Also read: Uhuru talks tough against hate speech after Kuria, Muthama arrested On September 1, Uhuru said the country had a problem with its judiciary, which annulled his election win of last month, "and we must fix it". Speaking a day after the Supreme Court cancelled his victory and ordered new polls within 60 days, he said "Who even elected you?...We have a problem and we must fix it." The Law Society of Kenya said in a strongly worded statement that Uhuru, as "the head of state who under the constitution is a symbol of national unity", should refrain from derogatory comments about the judiciary. Attention now turns back to the election board. The court ruled that it had "failed, neglected or refused to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of the constitution". [VIDEO] We're ready to prove Judiciary wrong, says Uhuru, asks IEBC to set dates Read: Uhuru shouldn't lose his cool but who does Raila think he is? says Tuju