“I saw my son’s body lying down the cliff,” says Christine Chepkonga, sobbing as she recalls the bitter end of a three-day search on August 28. Edwin Chepkonga, 17, rolled down to his death at Sikai cliff as he was being pursued by KFS rangers guarding Katimok forest in Ossen, Baringo North subcounty. The boy was preparing to resume school at Kapkirwok Day Secondary School. His body was retrieved at Sakai cliff three days after he went missing from home. Evans Sila, who was among 50 youth who helped retrieve the body, said police in Kabartonjo station declined to accompany them to recover the body, saying they had no fuel in their vehicles. “The mother was the first person to spot the body, and she came back to inform us,” he said. “We mobilised ourselves as youth in the village to retrieve the body.” He said the body bore injures on the head, a broken leg and waist. Edwin’s brother Kipkorir Chebon, 14, said he witnessed his brother being harassed and pursued by the KFS rangers around noon on the fateful day. “I was in the house at the time, while my brother was busy repairing the family fence. Suddenly three forest rangers armed with guns stormed in and chased him away, and he did not come back again,” Chebon said. Edwin’s father, Michael Chepsergon, said his house is situated beside Katimok forest. “I guess the foresters suspected my son had cut and stolen trees in the forest, but I am sure he did not,” he said. Kenya Forest Service officers locked themselves in their offices and declined to comment. Baringo police commander Smallest Munyanzi said he was not aware of the incident. “For now I am not in a position to comment because I have not been served with any such information by my officers on the ground,” he said. Residents of Ossen complained of rising cases of police harassment, especially by forest rangers. “We have kept reporting such cases to police, but nothing has ever been done to reverse the situation,” resident James Koech said. He said in July, a man lost three teeth after KFS rangers accused him of harvesting trees illegally in the forest and beat him up. The locals threatened to storm the rangers’ offices if no disciplinary action is taken against the culprits. Edwin’s mother accused the police of inaction. “When I went to record a statement, I was told to come the following day and I did, but up to now we don’t know the fate of our case,” Chepkonga said. The family, who are peasant farmers, urged the Kenya Human Rights Commission and other humanitarian agencies to intervene.  CATTLE RUSTLING It is in the same Baringo North subcounty where Tugen residents from Loruk accuse police of shielding suspected Pokot cattle rustlers from the neighbouring Tiaty subcounty. The suspicion arose after they identified their stolen livestock in the hands of unscrupulous sellers at Mogotio sell yard in Baringo county on June 3. The livestock were alleged to be among more than 400 goats and cows stolen by Pokot bandits during serial attacks in Yatya and Kagir villages between March and April. Angry residents pounced on a woman negotiating prices with unsuspecting buyers, but police rescued her from being lynched. The Tugen said the owners spotted the unique identification marks in their goats. “We turned around to interrogate the woman but police came in to block her and whisked her away,” resident Richard Chepchomei said. He said it is not the first time residents have spotted their stolen animals being sold at the yard without police arresting the suspects. “It has now come to our notice that these Pokot bandits may have been colluding with the police to loot and sell our livestock,” he said. Human Rights activist Amos Olempaka threatened to stage a mega demonstration if nothing is done to investigate the officers behind the ‘shielding’ of police cartels. “We cannot sit back and watch as police keep shielding criminals behind our backs, criminals who kill and steal from us and walk away scot-free,” Olempaka said. He suspected the slaughterhouse is where rustlers take the more than 13,000 goats that have been stolen in parts of Baringo North and Baringo South over the past two years. Olempaka said the police might be hiding something from the public. He urged police boss Joseph Boinett and acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to intervene. Mogotio OCPD Patrick Nyangaresi said they are investigating. GRAZING PACT Meanwhile, Pokot herders were allowed to graze their over 1,000 herd of cattle at Loruk, border of Baringo North and Tiaty subcounties, after a day-long security meeting. The herders are part of the thousands evicted and barred from grazing their more than 10,000 livestock in Arabal and Mukutani in Baringo South subcounty and Laikipia ranges amid the ongoing security operation to flush out bandits. The meeting was chaired by Baringo county commissioner Peter Okwanyo. In attendance were local chiefs and elders from both Pokot and Tugen communities, who called for peace. Okwanyo warned the herders against carrying illegal firearms, saying if found they will be punished. “You only asked for pasture to graze your animals, but anyone holding a gun should surrender it to the police so that people live in peace,” he said. A Pokot herder told the meeting: “It just rained recently in Tiaty after a long drought since July last year. Therefore, we are only requesting to graze our animals here in the meantime, as the pasture grows, then we go back home.” He said after security officers evicted them from Laikipia and parts of Baringo South, they had nowhere to graze their already emaciated livestock. The Pokot herders said security officers used excessive force to evict them, torching their houses and shooting dead their animals. Tugen residents, led by Richard Chepchomei, said it was risky to allow ‘armed’ Pokot herders to graze their livestock near the border, saying they could spy around to attack and steal livestock from the neighbouring Tugen and Ilchamus communities. Chepchomei said more than 30,000 Tugen residents were living in fear in Baringo North and South subcounties after attacks by armed Pokot bandits. “We thought the government is helping push away the Pokot aggressors far into their Tiaty home. How could they be allowed to graze along the disputed border of Loruk in Baringo North?” Chepchomei asked. However, Okwanyo gave them permission to graze their livestock until September 25, after which they are expected to drive back their animals. The Pokot herders are now mingling with their Tugen counterparts to graze their livestock at Loruk, Chesiran, Moinonin and Chebilat villages. Loruk sublocation assistant chief Samuel Kamuren welcomed the peace deal. He said he already has a list of Pokot herders who have been allowed to graze in the area. “I believe this will reunite and rekindle peace between us (Tugens) and the Pokot, after a long tussle over livestock theft and killing of innocent people,”Kamuren said. Kamuren said more than 2,000 Tugen victims of bandits attacks stationed at Moinonin IDP camp have returned to their homes and resumed their lives.