Two form three students from Milo Boys’ Secondary School in Webuye West constituency were yesterday arraigned in court and charged with setting ablaze a section of a dormitory. They are accused of burning the dormitory last Wednesday. No student was injured as they were in class for evening preps. The two appeared before senior principal magistrate Mwangi Muraguri and denied the charges. This is the second fire at Milo Boys in a year. The first fire was in March. Students and neighbours put out last Wednesday’s fire using water and sand. The father of one of the accused said his son is innocent and is incapable of arson. “I know my son. He cannot even harm a fly. I am ready for this case if they have enough evidence,” he told journalists at the court. The students were each released on a Sh50,000 bond with a surety of a similar amount. The case will be mentioned on September 25 and heard on December 19 and 22. juvenile jail Muraguri said if the two fail to raise the bond amount, they will be taken to Kakamega Approved School for minors. Bungoma East Knut secretary general Aggrey Namisi called for investigations to prevent future fires which could kill students. He said the culprits should be probed. “As a union, we are against such behaviour and we want justice to take its course so that all those who are behind the incident, including any teacher and neighbours who sold the petrol and matchbox to the students, are arrested,” Namisi said. He urged students to be disciplined and work hard so they have a good life  in future. Namisi warned students against putting pressure on their parents and stressing them by making them pay for arson attacks. Bungoma East DCI boss Paul Mumo said security agents will treat students found guilty of arson like criminals. He raised concerns that the cases of schools being burnt by students have been on the rise. He urged the courts to deal firmly with the students to act as a warning to others. ‘don’t defend bad kids’ “I want to ask parents to ensure their children remain well-mannered after returning to school. They should not side with their children after they have committed crimes,” Mumo said. He continued, “We all saw what happened at Moi Girls’ High School Nairobi where we lost innocent lives.” Education CS Fred Matiang’i said arson is to blame for the Moi Girls’ fire that claimed nine lives. Matiang’i, who doubles as the acting Interior CS, said this was the conclusion after thorough investigations by police. “It was not an accident,” he said following the incident during which seven pupils were killed. Two out of 10 injured students later succumbed to injuries.