Opposition leader Raila Odinga will carry out nationwide campaigns against the IEBC to keep it from conducting the October 17 repeat election. Raila alongside NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi declared the current IEBC unfit to conduct any polls without a serious purge of officials who abetted the bungling of August 8 polls. "We launch our campaigns against any elections held by IEBC commissioners as constituted. We shall go around the country sensitising people about the IEBC," Raila announced on Sunday. He said they will criss cross the country in a campaign to explain to their supporters why the current commission cannot be trusted to oversee a free, fair election. "Why should Kenya trust these institutions? Is it because the IEBC went to a retreat and buried their hatchet? Is it because Safran gave itself a clean bill?" Raila posed. "Is it because IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba answered the Chebukati memo and gave it to DP William Ruto?" Raila maintained that commissioner Abdi Guliye, CEO Ezra Chiloba and nine other officials must exit before the October 17 repeat polls. "The 10 individuals including the CEO who bungled the elections must resign for any election to be held," he said. 'JUBILEE, IEBC PARTNER IN CRIME' Raila claimed the electoral agency and the Jubilee Party are partners in crime and must be reformed through a consultative process before conducting any other poll. "Ruto told us that Chiloba had answered the memo but neither NASA or the public knows that Chiloba had responded. This is disturbing, IEBC and Jubilee are partners in crime, the two need each other," he said. In the memo seen by The Star, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati detailed numerous failures by the secretariat that formed a key part of Supreme Court proceedings. More on this: Chebukati demands answers from Chiloba as IEBC election fallout deepens Raila said if Jubilee is in power they would protect 'conspirators' in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. "Kenyans are coming for you! Salvage what you can and run. There will be no election with you in office," he said. Raila also claimed, without evidence, that Jubilee and IEBC are partners in the brutal murder of IEBC's ICT director Chris Msando. Read:Youths block Ugenya roads to stop Chebukati, Chiloba from attending Msando burial "The murder of Msando is a cold hearted crime that goes very high up. IEBC and Jubilee are partners in this matter," Raila said. He also dismissed threats by French company Safran to sue for defamation saying "a thief cannot probe itself ". OT-Morpho said in a statement on Saturday that it will sue "unidentified people in both French and Kenyan courts for damaging the company’s reputation and honor". The firm said it is willing to open its system for additional scrutiny by an independent body under the authority of IEBC. Read: [Statement] French firm responds to NASA hacking claims Earlier, the Opposition wanted the two French companies investigated for interfering with the transparency of the August 8 general election. Mudavadi accused Safran Identity Company and Morpho of being part of an alleged rigging plot during the polls. The firms are French digital-security companies whose equipment was used in the election. They provided two electronic systems that identified Kenyan voters and transmitted election results. Read: Probe French firms for criminal acts, fraud during August 8 polls - NASA