Wiper chief Kalonzo Musyoka is a shepherd who has lost his way and wrongly led Kambas to support NASA, leaders have said. Former Wiper chairman David Musila and elected Jubilee MPs from the region met at an Athi River hotel on Saturday and pledged to support President Uhuru Kenyatta. The leaders said they are not against Kalonzo’s leadership but the direction he was taking the community. “When evening comes, and a shepherd who was looking after his cattle in the forest forgets his way back home, the cows that left their calves at home take charge. “They lead the shepherd back home,” said Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai. Mbai said Kalonzo’s support for the ODM Party leader Raila Odinga since 2013 is a major bone of contention between him, Kamba leaders and the community. “Some of us don’t believe Raila will ever be the president of this country. This is a man who has been in the opposition for so long time. It seems to be his place,” he said. Former Kitui Senator Musila said the community is tired of waiting for promises that never materialise. “We started our journey to State House in 2002, but it never worked. In 2007, we made a second attempt but failed again. “In 2013 and 2017, we were tricked into supporting a sterile candidate. For how long will we wait? Personally, I’m tired of pushing a tyre that isn’t moving,” Musila said. He said for the years the community has been in the opposition, Kamba professionals and the business community have suffered the most. It’s time we put aside our personal interests and seek what is good for the community. Professionals and businessmen have suffered greatly because the community is deemed to be in the opposition,” Musila said. The leaders said the promise that Wiper leader Musyoka will be the flagbearer for NASA in 2022 is a big lie. “I’m sure Kalonzo is not comfortable in NASA because he knows they are deceiving him. Raila will still be the presidential candidate, if not, it will be Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo,” Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka said. He said it is time Kalonzo realises this and starts to charting his political future because there is no way NASA will beat Jubilee in the new presidential election on October 17. “President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto won in the August 8 General Election and will will win again with or without the Kamba vote,” Munyaka said. The leaders said they will campaign vigorously for Uhuru. They appointed businessman Peter Muthoka to lead the community to work with the government. “We are now asking the Office of the President to reach out to the Kamba community through him and no other person,” Kitui South MP Rachael Kaki said.