NASA chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s adviser Salim Lone has told Kenyans to remember murdered IEBC ICT manager Msando who was murdered days to the general election. &ldquo;And let us also remember today Chris Msando, who was murdered so the election, which Uhuru had lost the day NASA was born, could be stolen. But his murder backfired. All fair minded Kenyans were horrified that this regime would kill a person whose integrity was impregnable,&rdquo; Lone posted on his Facebook page. A post-mortem examination revealed that Msando died of strangulation. &ldquo;He died from strangulation and he also had incisions on his right arm, but the rest of the body was intact,&rdquo; said Chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor. &ldquo;The pain and tears of his family and all those who loved him can never be wiped away. But please be assured that Kenyans will always remember him for his commitment to respect the will of Kenyans to choose the leaders of their choice, and the which (sic) direction they want their country to take. His death definitely not in vain. He will forever stand in Kenya and Africa as the symbol of what free elections mean,&rdquo; wrote Lone minutes after Chief Justice Maraga delivered the determination of the Court on Friday morning. Lone also commended the Supreme Court judges for ruling that the August 8 presidential election was not conducted in accordance with the Constitution. &ldquo;A new Kenya has been born. Chief Justice Maraga will always be remembered for setting this exceptional example for all of Africa. Its judiciaries now know that they have the power, in law and with courage, to challenge the mighty powers too many African presidents wield against the will of their people,&rdquo; Lone added. During the 2007 general election, Lone was the ODM director of communications and a top political adviser to Raila. After a contested election, Raila and Mwai Kibaki formed a coalition government with Raila as prime minister. Lone became Raila&rsquo;s spokesman and political adviser before leaving for New York. Lone returned to Kenya in June 2017as the National Super Alliance chief publicist.