A family in Ossen is crying for justice after their son was found dead three days after he was &ldquo;harassed and chased&rdquo; by forest rangers.Seventeen-year-old Edwin Chepkonga went missing on Monday. His family suspects he fell from a cliff while being pursued.His body was retrieved from the foot of the Sakai cliff yesterday. It had injuries to the head and torso. A leg was broken.Kenya Forest Service officers declined to comment.More than 300 residents have threatened to storm the KFS offices if no action is taken.They said the officers have been harassing them and they want it to stop.Chepkonga&rsquo;s brother Kipkorir Chebon, 14, said he witnessed his brother being harassed and pursued by KFS rangers near Katimok Forest at around noon on Monday.&ldquo;I was in the house at the time. My brother was busy repairing our fence. Suddenly, three forest rangers armed with guns stormed and began chasing him. He did not come back,&rdquo; he said.Their home borders the forest.Their father, Michael Chepsergon, said, &ldquo;I guess the foresters suspected my son had stolen and cut trees from the forest. But I&rsquo;m certain he didn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;He said Chepkonga was a disciplined and hardworking boy.&ldquo;I had seen a brighter future in him. He was to finish his high school education this year and was preparing to report for the third term on Tuesday,&rdquo; Chepsergon said.He wants justice for his son and has urged police to investigate.Chepkonga&rsquo;s mother, Christine, was desolate, tearful and speechless. She was the first person to spot his body.Resident James Koech said, &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve kept reporting such cases to police, but nothing has ever been done.&rdquo;He cited an incident last month when he said &ldquo;a man lost three teeth after getting a thorough beating by KFS rangers over allegations he was felling trees illegally in the forest.&rdquo;Evans Sila, one of the 50 residents who retrieved the body, said police did not accompany them to the scene.&ldquo;We reported the incident to Kabartonjo police officers. They gave us the go-ahead to collect the body, but said they could not come with us because they had no fuel,&rdquo; he said.Attempts to reach Kaptum assistant chief Mary Yatich, who lives in the neighbourhood, were unsuccessful. Her phone was switched off.Baringo county police commander Smallest Munyazi said he had yet to be briefed. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not in a position to comment because I&rsquo;ve not received information from my officers on the ground,&rdquo; he said.