The renewed focus on vocational and technical education by the government is one of the best strategies in addressing youth unemployment. The Jubilee administration is carrying out comprehensive reforms aimed at improving the education system. Building quality institutions that would develop manpower and the capacity of the youth to contribute to the expansion of the economy is a move in the right direction. Recently in Mombasa President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto launched the first batch of equipment for 134 new Technical Training Institutes. The government has invested Sh16.7 billion in purchasing equipment to improve laboratories and infrastructure in the new TTIs, as well as reposition the institutions to deliver on their mandate. The Jubilee administration has been the first in Kenya’s history to make such far-reaching investments in vocational and technical training. Apart from the infrastructural development of TTIs, the government has also trained thousands of technical lecturers and administrators to bring them up to speed on developments in vocational and technical education. The President and Deputy President said the government’s commitment to vocational and technical education is borne out of the fact that its vision to improve on employment of youths who are out of jobs is premised on the acquisition of skills in a knowledge-driven economy. This goal of equipping youths with relevant skills is being pursued through a two-pronged approach: The first being the fact that all secondary schools across the country must have skills-acquisition content introduced in their curricula. The second is what used to be called ‘village polytechnics’. They will be renamed vocational training centres and the personnel in such institutions must attain proper training at the Technical Training Centre in Nairobi. This comes in the wake of the government’s move to establish a full-fledged authority to manage technical training institutions. The authority will, among other things,provide relevant programmes and effective management and governance for technical education. This ensures that youths are not only educated but are equipped with the relevant skills to drive the nation to the technological era. The justification of coming up with new TTIs is premised on the fact that more youths should have access to quality tertiary education and basic skills that would make them self-reliant. The new institutions have been established to provide increased access for our youths who are yearning for tertiary education and to provide skilled middle-level manpower for national development. The current shortage of artisans, plumbers and technologists is due to failure by previous governments to prioritise the development of technical education. But with Jubilee putting more emphasis on technical education, youths will get the right type of training that would empower them to become job creators and active players in the economy. What the administration is doing is redefining education and giving youths the knowledge and skills to effectively compete and face the challenges in the current job market. Youths only complain of lack of employment opportunities, even though the majority lack the relevant skills to contribute to national development. It is encouraging that the administration is directing more resources to research activities for the benefit of the learning institutions and the country at large. Many developed countries have are far ahead in terms of information technology because more resources are directed towards the development of research. The renewed focus on vocational and technical education by the Jubilee administration is one of the best strategies in meeting the needs of the Kenyan youth in the job market.