EMB's newest artiste David Wonder has been working with Mtoto wa Mama for two years, but it is only this year that fans came to know of him. Speaking to Word Is, he said: "The past one year I was under Bahati's mentorship. He is not perfect and might have blundered before, so the mentorship was all about him helping me cross the bridge so I can't make the same mistakes. He taught me the do's and don'ts of the ministry." Wonder, real name David Junior Odera, explained how he met up with the award-winning gospel star. "When I finished school, I got a job as a beautician in town but I didn't like the job. I had to do it because it was the only way i would make it. My friend told me about EMB and I called and sent many texts and e-mails. Then one day, Bahati picked my calls and agreed that I should work with him." The gospel kid, who is now ruling the airwaves with the hit Ndogo Ndogo, said it takes faith to be part of Bahati's life. "Bahati is a very spiritual man. You need to be spiritual to work with Bahati and deeply rooted in faith. Over the last year, I was to do a collabo with Bahati but it is just recently that the spirit spoke to him to do a song with me." He says he is not ready to do collabos with secular artistes, unless he is doing inspirational or peace songs. "I would like to do a collabo with Mr Seed and Mercy Masika, anytime, any day. I will talk on my behalf. For me, I want to relate more with the church. Right now I'm not planning to do a collabo with any secular artiste. In future, I will do songs with people that are based on inspiration and peace. But Bahati hasn't sang anything funny, he sings about Christ, he is still preaching the gospel. Nakunywa maziwa bado." So, is he seeing someone? "I'm not dating. Right now I'm focused fully on music 100 per cent. If I change focus I won't produce anything." And who is his ideal woman? "Someone God-fearing, hardworking and she has to love music." So far, Wonder has done a single, Naelewa, and two collabos, Niambie featuring DK Kwenye Beat and Ndogo Ndogo featuring his boss Bahati.