Six Siaya ODM legislators say they will physically kick out of office IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba on Monday if he has not resigned. Lead by Alego-Usonga MP Samuel Atandi, they said it will be better if Chiloba starts packing early to avoid their wrath. “He has only two days from now to pack his belongings from that office,” he said. However, IEBC has indicated Chiloba will stay and be responsible for the well-handled rerun. On Wednesday, Chiloba defended himself in a television interview, saying the IEBC did its best, there were only “minor errors” and the servers were not hacked. Problems have been straightened out, he said. Atandi said the level of impunity in the country has reached unsustainable levels. Retaining people like Chiloba is breeding the vice, he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said Kenya is in a revolutionary mood and any misguided state officers and leaders will be dealt with accordingly.  WE’LL TAME UHURU, TOO He said they will not stand by and watch officers like Chiloba and leaders like Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu have their way. “We will tame them just the way we want to tame the President from altering the Constitution by removing the two-term presidential limit,” Wandayi said. The MP said Chiloba cannot preside over “wanton theft of elections” and still be in office by Monday. Siaya Senator James Orengo said responsibility for election malpractices that led to the nullification of the presidential polls lies squarely with Chiloba. The senator warned President Uhuru Kenyatta against abusing NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga every time they condemn Chiloba’s action. “We want to warn the President that if he continues to talk in a derogatory manner to Raila, we will deal with him in the same measure,” Orengo said. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo told Jubilee leaders to stop day dreaming that they can force NASA to go to the election with Chiloba as the CEO. “We are going to educate them that Chiloba is not fit to be in any public office — the way we educated them in the Supreme Court that the presidential election was bungled,” he said. The Rarieda MP said that if Chiloba will not go they will use the constitution alternatives, including discussion of separation, picketing and demonstrations.  ‘Used as political puppet’ Siaya woman representative Christine Ombaka said Chiloba has ruined his life by allowing Jubilee to use him as a political puppet. “Chiloba will never be employed anywhere after Jubilee will have dumped him come October 17,” she said. Former Bondo MP Oburu Oginga said for the election to be free and fair, Chiloba must be shown the door. The leaders spoke in Rarieda on Thursday during their election campaigns.