NASA is fleecing Kenyans, Aden Duale has said shortly after leader Raila Odinga appealed for campaign funds.Earlier today, Raila asked Kenyans who want to go to the 'promised land' with him to "buy tickets" by sending donations to the Opposition.The NASA principal asked members of the public to give money for campaigns for the fresh election on October 17.Campaigns for round two of the presidential election officially began on September 6 and will end on October 15.More on this: IEBC issues election guidelines, campaigns to end on October 15But Duale, who is Garissa Town MP and National Assembly majority leader, said he was shocked to see Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka "begging" for money on live TV."They are fraudsters," he told a press briefing. "They are coming with a pay bill number. We are telling Kenyans to ignore these fraudsters. We expect them to go to the people and prepare themselves for the election."Duale said Kenyans should not fundraise for people who will not win and accused NASA of joining the race, not to win, but to get money."Fundraise for someone who will win but don't waste your votes plus any other little money that you have for them," he said."They have confirmed to us they are just fleecing their supporters. They are people who joined the race not to win but to fundraise. They use every election to make money."Kenyans must ignore them and be very careful. NASA is trying to do another gambling to look for votes."Duale, who fiercely defends the President and his Jubilee Party, said NASA should stop all press conferences and concentrate on campaigns.He said the Opposition should end press conferences and fundraising and get ready for the poll."We want our competitors to go and seek votes. They should not use leaked memos to call press conferences. We know there are some media house that are working with NASA," he said."We are telling our colleagues (in NASA) to stop going round talking about IEBC ."A looming fallout at the electoral agency has seen chairman Wafula Chebukati write CEO Ezra Chiloba a memo demanding reasons for failures in the election.Shortly after reports on the demands, Raila addressed a press conference in which he said it is obvious the election was rigged and that Uhuru and Ruto belong in prison.More on this: You belong in jail, Raila tells 'shameful' UhuRuto after Chebukati memoAlso read: Raila tells Uhuru to resign over "sham election"'IEBC SHOULD STYLE UP'Duale further said the IBEC Should stop side shows and focus on the election."We don't care about the memos and whether you have a plenary or not. Please, it is this house that vetted you. Stop side shows," Duale said.He said Chebukati to follow up fix the issues that have arisen."Fix them but prepare the country for the October election. We don't want to hear stories of IEBC and staff...each of them has taken oath of office. Clean your house."The legislator said Chebukati should call a press conference and assure the country of safety and readiness for the poll."Speak to the nation and prepare infrastructure for the election. Tell the country from tomorrow how you are prepared. We don't want to create an environment of rumor mongering. We don't want to create an environment of mistrust.