The new county assembly will review all laws enacted by the previous house and amend those that &ldquo;hurt&rdquo; residents, speaker Beatrice Elachi has said.The focus will be on lowering licence and parking fees and making it easier to do business.Elachi said the assembly will partner and consult with the county executive and the national government to ensure the city develops.The former nominated senator was overwhelmingly elected the speaker by MCAs on Wednesday.She garnered 90 votes out of the possible 122. Elachi won the seat in the first round of voting. &ldquo;My main objective is to ensure all members, whether from the majority or minority side, have a conducive environment to serve the people,&rdquo; she said.Elachi said they will look at the integrated plans developed by the previous administration. The new administration will review projects in all 85 wards to ensure only those that are beneficial and cost-effective are implemented.&ldquo;We know former Governor Evans Kidero had some plans and had also initiated some projects in the wards. We shall look at them and we shall carry on with the good ones,&rdquo; she said.Elachi said the assembly, in collaboration with the executive, will engage the public in reviewing the laws.&ldquo;Nairobi is not any other county. It is the capital city of this country. Therefore, we must work with the national government and all the other stakeholders in running it,&rdquo; she said.City residents, especially the business community, have complained of high levies imposed by the previous administration.Two weeks ago, Governor Mike Sonko said he would engage the assembly to amend the Finance Actpassed by the last house, to reduce the licence fees.The governor pledged to reduce parking fees by 30 per cent and scrap licences for micro and small traders.Elachi, who succeeded Alex Magelo, said she will be non-partisan in discharging her roles. She said she will listen to both the majority and the minority sides, so that no side feels &ldquo;left out&rdquo;. &ldquo;I was voted by members from both sides of the house. So I will not be partisan, because even the Constitution does not envision that. I shall discharge my duties in line with the Constitution, the law and the Standing Orders,&rdquo; she said. Majority leader Abdi Guyo said the assembly&rsquo;s first role will be to amend the Finance laws to conform with the vision of the governor. &ldquo;We want to help the governor reduce the rates paid by residents. They are too high. So our first agenda when we resume will be to amend the Finance laws,&rdquo; he said.The 122 members were sworn in last Wednesday. Thirty-seven were nominated and 85 elected. JP won the majority of the seats &mdash; 45. NASA scooped 38 seats, with ODM getting 36 seats and Wiper two.A PDU candidate won Makina ward in Kibra.Korogocho ward was won by an independent.