Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has exuded positive energy in his first few days in office and might pleasantly surprise his critics. He wants to untangle the mess that is Nairobi and has promised to transform it into the cleanest city in Africa. That is quite refreshing, as hardly do our leaders describe their goals in such simple and concrete terms. Sonko needs to correctly diagnose the problem and resist temptation to do simplistic things for quick publicity. Collecting garbage is good, but it is the easiest part. For it to be sustainable, one has to unlock the systemic rot that holds the city still. This is the hard part as it requires painstaking planning and massive investments in supporting infrastructures such as drainage, sewerage, and waste collection systems. That is a long term plan with a vision beyond an electoral term of the governor, but it can be done, and must eventually be done. Two main obstacles stand in the way of modernising Nairobi, which the new administration must confront. The first is the old, mostly colonial, bylaws that call for urgent review to transform the city into a model mega business rather than the stale and inefficient bureaucracy it is today. The current bylaws only hinder service delivery and undermine capacity for revenue growth and collection, causing vicious stagnation. The second is outmoded workforce. It’s hardly feasible that one can modernise Nairobi with the current workforce as it will be very hard to break the culture of wanton sloth, truancy, corruption and mediocrity. This is rooted in the peak of Kanu rule, when government meddled with management of civic authorities to ensure they were led by cronies of the regime. Nairobi for a long time was managed by a City Commission whose head was appointed by the President, in essence becoming like any other government office where tribalism and politics held sway. The end result was an overstaffed, underpaid and demoralised workforce. This laid ground for the current decay. You just need to look at City Hall itself. Like all government offices it has a filthy atmosphere, broken fittings and furniture and stinking toilets, etc. Why is it so hard to keep county offices clean and tidy when we have so many low cadre staff hired to do just that? Such workforce will frustrate attempts to modernise operations like digitising records and simplifying payments, licensing etc because they subsist on the bureaucracy and inefficiency involved. And unless these processes are modernised, transforming the city will be difficult as any such efforts will always be hampered by inefficiency and waste. This calls for an ambitious and radical plan. The county government can, for instance, explore the possibility of raising capital from a donor to finance an attractive layoff package to lure the bulk of the current workforce into voluntary retirement. This will then give way for a leaner, fresh and modern workforce that can steer goals such as the cleanest city in Africa forward. And given the importance of Nairobi to the country, such a project can be undertaken with the support and blessing of the national government to ensure its success. Remember there was Alfred Mutua (when he was in the Office of the President) and his stones on Uhuru Highway. Then came Evans Kidero with his grass. What becomes of these lofty initiatives? It’s because any attempt at cleaning or beautifying Nairobi before effecting fundamental structural changes is like applying lip stick to a pig – will always be short-lived. Once there is a business culture of hard work and accountability among county staff, City Hall itself will manifest it by becoming clean, orderly and inviting. Perhaps Sonko should first make City Hall the cleanest city building. Then we shall be on the way to making Nairobi the cleanest city in Africa 