President Uhuru Kenyatta lacked confidence in his first address to the 12th Parliament, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. Orengo, who is NASA's lawyer, said Uhuru's speech to the joint sitting was too brief since "he knew he was in breach of the constitution and the law". During his interview on an NTV show on Wednesday night, he added the President insisted on opening Parliament following a push by wrong advisers. “He is a president in incumbency hence his limited speech in the assembly,” he said, adding Uhuru has limited powers as dictated by law and the constitution. Opposition MPs have said they will continue boycotting parliamentary sessions The NASA lawmakers are charged but they could find themselves back to the ballot if they miss the minimum number of sitting members are allowed without the speaker’s permission. Read: NASA MPs could easily lose seats if they boycott eight sittings The Senator further asked Uhuru's advisers to inform him that some of his public rhetoric leaves a lot to be desired and that he seems confused most of the time. “Uhuru should know that when addressing the public he wears two hats - of the head of state and government - which he forgets most of the time." He noted his speeches should centre on the country's development and unity, not the "art of hurling insults" at NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. In his address, Uhuru touched on devolution, peace, hate speech and the need for legislators to serve the people who elected them. More on this: [SPEECH] Respect oaths, fulfill campaign pledges, Uhuru tells 12th Parliament Orengo further dismissed Uhuru's declaration that they will impeach Raila in three months should he become president owing to Jubilee Party's numerical strength in Parliament. The lawmaker said a president cannot be impeached on the basis of his political and tribal inclination so "Uhuru’s remarks lacked substance". He cited provisions in the constitution including when a president commits serious economic crimes and being mentally unfit, as grounds for the rigorous impeachment process. More on this: [VIDEO] We'll impeach 'president Raila' in 3 months, Jubilee has numbers - Uhuru Orengo singled out former US president Barack Obama whose democratic party was shy of legislators, unlike republicans who enjoyed unwavering numerical strength. He noted Obama managed to steward the nation for two terms due to policies that cut across the two perennial rival parties.