Two naked men — one draped with a cobra — smear yellow mud on themselves and dance around a car in Bamburi, Mombasa. They seem to be in a trance and mumble to the serpent. They confess they are car thieves forced by witchcraft to return the ‘stolen’ vehicle. This September 6 incident was an audacious, crowd-pleasing stunt (except when they threatened to toss the snake into the crowd) to advertise Ugandan witch doctor Taichi’s powers to nab thieves and perform other helpful feats. Taichi basked in the attention. It made national headlines, TV news (private parts blurred) and scored big on social media. The spectacle also prompted reflection about superstition that some say simmers just beneath the surface of a self-proclaimed church- and mosque-going nation. Generally, however, Satan’s power is said to be waning. Six people, including the car owner, were charged with seven counts, including fraud, in the elaborate drama. Police say two of the men, the snake dancers, have pulled stunts before. The cobra was starved for a week and choked unconscious so it couldn’t bite. The two were charged with unauthorised possession of a cobra. KWS took custody. BOOMING BUSINESS Witchcraft is illegal but witch doctors, some from Tanzania and Uganda, did booming business during the general election in August. They are still sought after. And year round all over Kenya, there are small posters advertising witch doctors pasted on telephone poles and walls, many not far from churches. No one takes them down. They promote love potions, man power, curing ailments and infertility, return of stolen objects, business success, catching cheating lovers, and so on. Magicians named, phone numbers included. Some witch doctors or healers are very well known, written about in newspapers, smiling broadly, loving the publicity. That stolen-car snake circus was hilarious (or was it?), though it targeted a gullible, superstitious public, many of whom swear by dark, supernatural powers. SACRIFICED OWN CHILDREN The dark, supernatural powers can’t get much darker and more disturbing than this: According to police, in September in Bombolulu, Kisauni, a poor couple, Katana Futa and his wife, who live in a slum, were desperate — not just for money but for riches. So they consulted their local traditional healer. He admitted his own powers were inadequate and referred them to a far more powerful witch doctor in Kitui. Waganga in Kitui are reputed to be formidable, sought after by droves of politicians before the August 8 general election. The witchdoctor in Kitui (we don’t have his name) told the couple great riches only come from the underworld and great sacrifice was required. They were asked if they were willing to offer up those dearest to them: their three children. In short, sell their souls to the devil. Perhaps after some soul-searching (perhaps not), they said they would be willing to sacrifice — murder — their three children in exchange for fabulous riches. They returned to their home in Mombasa. Apparently they couldn’t bring themselves to stab or strangle them. So on September 10, the couple led their children, ages 7, 8, and 10, outside to a foul septic tank. They threw them in and closed it, knowing the children would die a horrible death. They returned to the witch doctor in Kitui for the final rites that would give them wealth beyond their wildest dreams. However, the kind-hearted Mombasa healer who referred them to his Kilifi colleague learned of the plot. They must have confessed it to him. He was horrified, probably didn’t want to be complicit and dragged to court. He notified the police, who rescued the children after three days. The parents were arrested in Kitui while undergoing rituals. The three traumatised children were taken to Coast General Hospital, then to a child rescue centre. Katana, a casual labourer, was charged with assault and attempted murder. His wife was considered an accomplice and spared the murder charge. The three children are hers from a previous marriage.  They pleaded not guilty before Shanzu principal magistrate Diana Mochache. They were remanded to Shimo la Tewa Prison. The case will be mentioned on October 25. It’s not known what, if anything, happened to the mganga in Kitui. Kisauni OCPD Christopher Rotich condemned the grim crime and attempted sacrifice to satan “for their road to riches”. “After receiving information from the healer, our Kitui counterparts advised us about the same incident and we moved swiftly to rescue the minors,” Rotich said. INDUCED INFERTILITY Here’s a case less ghastly but still disturbing. Recently, jealous Mwanaisha (not her real name) confided to the Star that she has been able to keep her co-wives infertile since 2012 thanks to black magic. She’s a vegetable vendor in Likoni. The couple already has five children. Her husband wanted more. Mwanaisha was furious. After her husband married a second wife, she visited a witch doctor who gave her medicine to ensure no other wife would bear children. Mwanaisha cooked magical powder in her husband’s food to make him sterile or reduce his potency. She hid a small pouch of black powder in the co-wife’s house. The women didn’t get pregnant. “When my husband saw the second wife was not bearing children, he married another. But it’s been two years and she still is not pregnant,” Mwanisha says. So her husband took a third wife. Again Mwanaisha saw the witch doctor. She got more magical powder, cooked it in her husband’s food and placed it in her co-wife’s house. “The witch doctor gave me an emerald ring to wear,” she says. Mwanaisha won’t say what she paid the witch doctor or how she repaid the ‘gods’ who assisted her in making her co-wives infertile. SNAKE MAGIC DEBATE Pastor Ronald Mwau says today people believe in God more than in witchcraft. Mwau urges people to put their faith in God and Allah. The Bible says, “Woe unto those who believe in another man rather than believing in me (God). Let us follow the word of God and save this world the wrath of God.” However, opinion is split on serpent magic. Witch doctor Juma in Lidoni says the Bamburi stunt was ‘real’ because it was the snake that attracted the crowd, not the naked men. Snakes have strong attractive powers, he tells the Star, and are used in loathsome rituals. He was cagey about whether a snake could help recover a car. Juma says snakes are used in murders. One method involves tying a hair of the person wanted dead around the snake. The reptile is then killed. The person will wear out, shrink, lose blood and eventually die. “One gets into contact with the snake through blood. We’ve always punctured the reptile’s artery to ooze blood, and pass it to victims’ drink and the snakes will grow inside him and he will die mysteriously,” he says. However, snake magic was trashed by Mohamed Akida, chair of Pwani Traditional Health Care Practitioners and treasurer of the Herbalist Society of Kenya. Akida says snakes are harmful and all handlers are cursed. “Snakes have no supernatural powers,” he says, adding that they’re used in discredited underworld theatrics. The Bamburi snake must have been defanged or nonvenomous, he said. Professor Rocha Chimera says both tradition and superstition were involved in the Bamburi stunt and in the murder attempt when parents threw their children into a septic tank in exchange for wealth. He is a writer, researcher into traditions and dean of Humanities and Social Sciences at the Pwani University. “We live in very superstitious society. People believe such things do work and if they really entertain ideas about witchcraft, they may succeed.” He says superstition emanates when a community believes a snake is a ghost or a spirit, and if mistreated, bad things will happen. “So the Bamburi men exploited tradition and superstition to confuse the gullible,” he says. Chimerah says in the 60s and 70s, there was a belief in Bamburi that cats were ghosts and beautiful girls were demons. As for the septic tank sacrifice, the professor says that was triggered by devil worshipping that commands blood sacrifice. Chimera says the woman who claims to use black magic to keep co-wives infertile is lying. Additional reporting by Ernest Cornel