The overall goal of Vision 2030 is to secure Kenya a place in the list of the most competitive global economies with a high quality of life. This may, however, not be realised if proper attention is not given to health. Kenya loses about Sh128 billion annually, as reported by Unicef in 2015, due to non-productivity as a result of malnutrition. Additionally, the cost of malnutrition is estimated to reach Sh3.2 trillion in 20 years and 527,000 lives will be lost, according to Nutrition Profiles of 2010. Kenya’s progress in reducing undernutrition has been slow, stuck at an average annual rate of 0.6–2.5 per cent. Malnutrition spares no one, whether in the suburbs or the slums. When an individual’s weight is above normal compared to their height, this is termed as being overweight or obese. Obesity may increase the risk of many health problems, including diabetes, heart disease, and certain types cancer. With undernutrition, on the other hand, the dangers are equally adverse and they include poor school performance, vitamin deficiencies and susceptibility to diseases. This equally burdens the country’s healthcare system. It increases spending by usurping funds that could be used on development. When a child doesn’t get enough nutrients below the age of two, a condition known as stunting comes in. Stunting means the child’s height is less for their age compared to healthy children of the same age. It is worth noting that if the child fails to get the services of a nutritionist, this condition cannot be reversed after two years of age. Food is the source of energy that fuels the body to good health and also destroys it if not taken in the right amounts. Stunting, for instance, has serious consequences to the population; the solution lies in proper nutrition management. Stunting shows chronic malnutrition in early life, which is the most critical period of growth and development in children. According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey 2014, 26 per cent of our children are stunted. Some of the risks associated with stunting include an under-developed brain, with long-lasting harmful consequences such as diminished mental ability and learning capacity, poor school performance in childhood, reduced earnings and increased risks of nutrition-related chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, and obesity in the future. This becomes a burden to our healthcare system and reduces our spending strength, not to mention the amount of money spent in employing health workers in curative and rehabilitative services. Thomas Edison said, “The doctor of the future will give no medicine but will interest his patients in the care of the human frame, in diet and in the cause and prevention of disease.” With the rising cases of non-communicable diseases, our health budgets must be brought down. Nutritionists are basically specialists in food and its impact on health. They ought to be in the forefront of achieving Vision 2030. The county governments should consider creating directorates of nutrition and non-communicable diseases to deal with serious nutrition-related issues and food security at the household level. The Constitution states that food and good nutrition are basic human rights. Policymakers and the community at large must be alive to this and support the acceleration of positive actions to combat malnutrition. Good nutrition represents an investment in human and social capital; the solid establishment of human capital is a key determinant of household and community well-being, which in return forms a basis for the country’s development. As governors settle down in the counties, the question that we should ask ourselves is, is it tenable to continue putting much emphasis on treating the sick (curative measures) as we abandon with ignorance the importance of maintaining the health status of those who are healthy (preventive measures)? Investing more in preventive rather than curative interventions is imperative if we are to grow in our counties and improve the overall livelihoods of Kenyans. Henry Ng'ethe is the National chairman, Nutrition Association of Kenya.