Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday said the use of both electronic and manual transmission of results will be the way forward for the October 26 repeat election. Ruto led Jubilee brigade in campaigning for the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta in Isiolo county ahead of the repeat presidential elections. He said the election laws will be changed in conformity with the court ruling adding that it was unfair for the courts to overturn the will of majority of Kenyans without recounting the votes. The Deputy President said the changes will ensure concurrent transmission of electronic and manual results so as to ensure continuity in case the electronic system fails. "We want to change the election laws in conformity with the court ruling. There is no need to overturn the will of the majority of Kenyans without counting the votes." He said how Kenyans have voted should be an issue of priority other than the process under which results have been transmitted to the final destination. "It is important to check on the votes and decisions of majority of Kenyans," the Deputy President while addressing a rally in Isiolo town. Ruto told the Opposition that it was free to demonstrate as much as it could but warned that IEBC officials can only be removed from office by following the law. He asked NASA leader Raila Odinga to stop looking for scapegoats and leave IEBC, Safaricom and instead face Jubilee at the ballot. "Raila and his team should stop looking for scapegoats and face us at the ballot. It is not companies, IEBC or Safaricom that have votes but the people of Kenya." Governor Mohammed Kuti (Isiolo), MPs Fatuma Dulo (Isiolo), Hassan Hulufo (Isiolo North), Abdi Tepo (Isiolo South), Murwithania Mugambi (Mpuuru), Maoka Maore (Igembe North) accompanied the DP. "We are not in an animal farm where some animals more equal than others," Ruto said. Governor Kuti assured that voters in the area had made their decision in August 8 and will do the same to vote for Uhuru come October 26. "I want to assure Jubilee that even the 18,000 votes which went to Opposition will be cast for the president on October 26," said Kuti. The MPs said they have resolved to launch door-to-door campaigns to ensure President Kenyatta gets all the votes in their respective constituencies.  