Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria caused a storm on social media after he posted a message on his Facebook page indicating that he had donated Sh5 to the ODM party.His act of "generosity" was occasioned by an appeal for funding by NASA principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka.The leaders on Friday asked Kenyans to donate towards their campaigns in readiness for the October 17 fresh polls.Raila said the donations would amount to one "buying himself a ticket to Canaan", in reference to the Biblical Promised Land which he says he&rsquo;s leading Kenyans to.The Opposition leader equates Canaan to the political change he says Kenyans are yearning for and that only him, like the Biblical Joshua, will take them there. Read: Buy Canaan ticket by giving money for NASA campaigns, Raila tells KenyansKuria posted the confirmation message of his Sh5 to the 991444 pay bill number provided by the ODM leader for the donations.He then wrote: "The Bible commands as to help the less fortunate in society."By Saturday midday, the post had been shared over 1,280 times, attracted over 1,000 comments and had been favourited over 4,300 times.Some of those who commented on the post supported Kuria's action which was widely viewed as a mockery to the Opposition leader.Others, however, admonished the controversial legislator for what they believed was a sarcastic gesture meant to provoke NASA supporters. Gerishom Andani said: "Kuria, behave like somebody's father. Your age doesn't allow you to do these. And remember Raila Amolo Odinga is and must be your next president."Mugambi Timooh said: "Dear Moses kuria. Your master is their silencing. Pole pole ya Kobe humfikisha mbali. I think you are a leader who deserve respect sir. Why are you letting down yourself this much?"Sandrine Eyanae Ngasike added: "Moses kuria is in NASA partially..... Tunamtarajia anytime. His heart knows how qualified Raila is.....Kuria is in a prison called Jubilee.""He trusts NASA more than he does to Jubilee. Make a decision Dady, tunakuelewa sana. Thank you for your contribution Mose even though its a fake Mpesa msg."Jack Wire said: "And if u think its small amount!! Check how many people have/are sending as little as they can. They think its a mockery to ODM, but the kitty is growing tremendously."Nandwa Thee IceArk claimed the message Kuria posted had been edited. He wrote: "Moses Kuria, your heart is soo cool, if you would have received that Thank You message for supporting NASA. But what you forgot is to edit your account, account for NASA is not "Moses Kuria" instead it should start with 01200...so those edit and forward messages leave them your daughter to use when in boxing me!"Aduda Seleh said: "I really don't blame Moses Kuria. Weak men give themselves strength that way..kujichocha na mdomo..."Oga Gee said: "Thanks Moses Kuria for your heartfelt contribution. Deep inside, the truth whispers you given to a worthy course for this country. God bless you in a similar measure throughout your life. #AmicusBabae."Others like Koech Felix were skeptical of the intention of the donation."This guy Rao is after ID number. Don't fall into trap if you are jubilee supporter. Your I'd will be used either to rig Raila in or remove you from register using his moles in IEBC," Koech wrote.Florence Kimani echoed Koech&rsquo;s sentiments saying: "I think you need to be proactive why do they ask for ID no to be an account number. Something is cooking and don't be caught of guard thinking you have numbers and then be robbed in the process. Wake up stop sleeping."Others like Spenny Thifini saw it fit to make a light touch out of the post. He said: "Watu hutegea posts za Moses Kuria ka venye mama mboga hukupromise analeta stock ya avocado."[People wait for Moses Kurias posts anxiously like they do wait for fresh avocado stock at the local grocery].On Friday, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale urged Kenyans to ignore the donation plea terming it a ploy by NASA to defraud Kenyans. He wondered why the Opposition chiefs were more concerned with asking for money instead of votes with a repeat election just around the corner."They should not be asking for money. I said it here, some people go into elections not to win but to make money," Duale said.Read: NASA swindling Kenyans, Duale says after Raila funds appeal