Kenya will know their fate on Chan tournament hosting rights when the Confederation of Africa Football (Caf) delegation hold a press conference on Saturday to lay bare the outcome of the week-long inspection. The delegation, which is in the country on a week-long inspection of the facilities earmarked to host next year’s tournament, commenced the assessment yesterday at Nyayo Stadium and is expected to assess the other venues in the course of the week. Today, the delegation under the stewardship of Caf’s vice president Constant Selemani, will jet to Meru via the Isiolo Airport for the inspection of Moi Kinoru Stadium. The delegation is set to pay a courtesy call to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi in mid-morning and thereafter an inspection of the Kinoru Stadium, before flying back to Nairobi. On Thursday, the global bosses are scheduled to meet Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko before an inspection of the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC) Kasarani. The same group will thereafter assess the state of hotels set to host CHAN teams later in the day. The inspectors will complete their inspection exercise on Friday by touring Kipchoge Keino Stadium for the final inspection. The team will meet the Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago before touring Iten. Details for the inspection of Kenyatta Stadium Machakos were not included in the delegations itinerary. The verdict of the inspectors on the country’s readiness in hosting the event will be delivered on Saturday after a joint meeting between them and their hosts; Ministry of Sports and Football Kenya Federation. Before delivering their verdict, the delegation is set to meet the Deputy President who is expected to reassure them on the government’s commitment and dedication to host the bonanza, which has attracted 16 team tournament.After securing the hosting rights for the Chan Championships in 2014, Kenya is now facing the test of convincing the continental chiefs of their readiness to host the global showpiece. A delegation of Caf officials have held a number of inspection tours in the recent past. During the first inspection, the delegation expressed disappointment with the way Football Kenya Federation were discharging their mandate in ensuring the stadia meet the required standards. They outlined the number of things which needed some redress and the threshold FKF were required to meet for the second inspection. The second inspection was postponed following the political situation witnessed in the country. However, Caf send their vice president Constant Selemani to assess the political temperatures in the country and its safety. A positive feedback from Selemani is believed to have been tabled in Cairo and seven-man delegation was dispatched for the third inspection which began yesterday.