Kabarnet town has earned the dubious distinction of being the filthiest urban centre in Baringo county. Hoteliers sustain their operations by flushing out raw sewage, including human waste, at night due to lack of a sewerage system. The town, the county headquarters, has not had its sanitation improved by the plastic bags ban, which came into effect on August 28. Governor Stanley Kiptis, who took over from Benjamin Cheboi, faces an uphill task cleaning it up. He needs to improve the drainage system, find a dumpsite and set up a sewerage system. A 2009 census put the town’s population at 26,000 people, and it is expected to have shot up to about 30,000 to 35,000. The town was rated among the top municipalities during the former Kanu regime headed by retired President Daniel Moi, who hails from the county. During the old days, Kabarnet Hotel stood out for its quality accommodation to local and international tourists, and was patronised by the who is who in Kenya. But now the town has lost its glory. Investors shied away because of poor sanitation due to lack of a sewerage system, absence of a dumpsite and water scarcity. Small hoteliers have resorted to manually flushing out waste food materials and human waste at night to continue running their businesses. flies all over, as residents and traders dump waste products haphazardly. “This will continue unless the county and national governments consider budgeting on erecting a sewerage system,” Chebon said. He said hotel and lodging operators pour waste materials through old drainage tunnels and wait for it to be washed away by the rains. Another resident, Simon Kandagor, said litter is scattered everywhere, and the situation worsens during the rainy season. “The situation poses deadly health dangers to the thousands of residents fetching dirty water downstream,” HEALTH HAZARD Resident Amos Chebon said he witnessed hotel operators exhume and drain human waste from pit latrines at night. “They are forced to do so due to lack of an allocated dumpsite and a sewerage system in the town,” Chebon told the Star. He said a visitor to the town is welcomed by a filthy smell, litter and Kandagor said. As the rainy season sets in, more than 3,000 residents in the town live in fear of a waterborne diseases outbreak due to poor sanitation. Among the hotels operating in the town are Sinkoro, Royal, Kabarnet, City Clock, Sportline, Diwani, Sizzlas, Capilano, Members, Ivory, Stadium view, Valley Inn, Saimo, Corner, Valley view, Complex, Paradise, Blue, Shabic, Mountain View and Central. They serve more than 15,000 clients daily. Raw sewage spilling from the hotels and offices overflows towards Kabarnet AIC church, Stadium, Bondeini, Jua Kali, Kabarnet market, AP line and the Kenya School of Government. Resident Mengich Chebon said he has kept off eating food from hotels in town, blaming it on poor hygiene marked by a fifthy smell in most hotels, especially those operating in shanties. “We sometimes don’t even blame the traders as such as it is due to improper hygiene being neglected by the county government,” he said. Chebon said some ageing dirty water drainage culverts are bursting in the town centre, and putting the residents at risk of walking over raw sewage. The culverts are also broken by the blockage of water runways, causing a filthy smell along the backstreets of the town, where most of the hotels are situated. The dumpsite that was originally located by the now-defunct municipal council at Kaprogonya estate near SDA church is exhausted and overflowing, causing air pollution. Residents living in the nearby rental houses have fled due to the bad odour emerging from the rotten residue. However, as dirty waste washes downstream through Kibarenge and Seguton rivers, more than 3,000 residents living in Kaptimbor, Kaprogonya, Kewamoi and Soi ward risk contracting dangerous waterborne diseases, such as dysentery, typhoid and amoeba, after taking the contaminated water for domestic use. The overflow of a lagoon inBaringo County Referral Hospital also harbours a health hazard to the residents living downstream. INACTION CRITICISED Former Kabarnet deputy mayor Joshua Matetai accused the county and the national government of taking too long to set up a sewerage system and a dumpsite. He said the poor hygienic situation in Kabarnet town might scare away investors. But former Baringo Deputy Governor Mathew Tuitoek defended the county’s sanitation eff orts, saying Public Health officers were ordered to give notice and close down all hotels operating in the town without observing proper hygiene. He said every trader operating an unregistered business owes the town the responsibility of keeping it clean, and whoever fails to abide by it will not only lose business but also face the full force of the law. “Though there is no sewer in the town, there is no compromise reserved to anyone who leaves dirt and litter around a business premise,” Tuitoek said. He said new garbage collection trucks have been deployed to collect litter and check on blockage of water ways. Tuitoek said the county government began negotiations with the Water ministry to fast-track the completion of Kirandich Water Dam (Kridam) phase two, which will go a long way to servicing the introduction of sewerage system in the town. He said completion of phase two of the dam is budgeted to cost an estimated Sh1.8 billion, while the sewer shall be completed at a cost of between Sh300 to Sh400 million. Th e county government, he said, located a 24-acre plot along Kabarnet-Kiboino road as a proposed dumpsite, and once in operation, it will free the town from litter. He urged residents and business dealers operating in the major towns in the county, such as Kabarnet, Eldama-Ravine, Marigat, Mogotio and Kabartonjo, to keep the towns clean. However, residents accused former Governor Benjamin Cheboi of failing to put the town’s hygiene in shape. “We now appeal to the new Governor Stanley Kiptis to liaise with donors to ensure completion of Kirandich dam phase two, and to further ensure the putting up of a sewerage system in Kabarnet town,” former mayor Matetai said. He said the town is in dire need of a dumpsite to ease littering and bad smell. Furthermore, on May 2014, the Public Health department filed a case in Kabarnet magistrate court, demanding the county government fast-track location of dumpsite and a sewerage system to ease littering and restore sanity in the town. Senior resident magistrate Samson Temu said it is unworthy for people to live in such a pathetic environment, while they keep paying taxes to the government. However, the county government, through the town administrator Michael Rotich, requested the court to allow them more time, promising they will work out measures to keep the town clean, although since then, nothing has been done. WATER SUPPLY AT RISK Patrick Kaputie, Kabarnet chairman of Water Resource Users Association, told a press conference last month private developers undertake activities up-stream and leave the waste draining directly into the stream used by more than 3,000 people. While stressing the health risk the community around is exposed to, Kaputie condemned the destruction of the water catchment area of the stream, fearing that its supply could eventually fail. “Many residents from this area are suffering from typhoid due to consumption of polluted water,” a resident said. Th e chairman advised Kaptimbor residents to combine efforts in protecting the streams from pollution by forming groups. He called on the county government to build a septic tank that can collect waste to prevent polluting the stream. “We are planning to start a tree nursery and a fish pond along the stream so that residents can generate income,” Kaputiei said. He appealed to the county government to assess investors’ intentions before allowing them land near natural resources. Kaputie said water sources in Kabarnet are highly polluted, since some rivers are used for car washing and even waste from Kabarnet County Hospital is drained directly into River Kaberenge, where residents in Kabarnet town draw their water. Nema Baringo director Samuel Ondeng’ condemned the pollution. “These are things that are happening and we have also acted on them. What remains is legal action,” he said, adding that political interference has been a great hindrance to environmental conservation. The director said information about Kaptimbor had not yet reached his office, but promised to investigate and take action.