After the election on August 8, when it became apparent that NASA leader Raila had lost — before the Supreme Court decision — some in NASA had started voicing support for other alternatives to democracy. Their disgust for the will of the people was perhaps best summed-up by head of NASA’s technical committee David Ndii, who said, “If change cannot come through the ballot, it will come through the bullet.” However, the interests and safety of average Kenyans have never been given prominence by the opposition and Raila, who has a long history of using many undemocratic and bloody tools to achieve what they have failed at the ballot, While some NASA talking heads claimed that perhaps the one person, one vote, one voice system was not the correct path for Kenya, others spoke strongly about dividing the Republic of Kenya along ethnic lines and voting patterns. The most prominent and surprising invocation was by NASA’s chief strategist Ndii, who created a petition to divide Kenya into two distinct states. Thankfully, the petition didn’t receive many signatures and it has now been placed into deep freeze after a fresh election was ordered on October 17. However, the people haven’t forgotten this dangerous game that the opposition played last time, and are worried that if in all likelihood Raila loses again, this and a myriad of other devious plans to rob Kenyans of their democratic rights will be hatched again. Since the Supreme Court decision went for him, Raila has returned to spouting about the importance of democracy and the will of the people. However, August 9 and onwards demonstrated that it is all a charade, and when he loses, his democratic mask slips and his contempt for the people’s choices is exposed. Kenya saw in the many post-election press conferences a litany of lies, accusations and plans, all of which were cleverly concealed for the legal battle at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court battle was NASA’s only exercise in democracy since it was created. Outside of the courtroom, where its credible and staid lawyers hold no sway, strategists such as Ndii run amok at the behest of Raila and the other NASA principals. In the lead-up to the October 17 rerun, the Kenyan people need answers from the opposition leader about his views on democracy. We need him to answer outright about whether he sees any merit in his close adviser’s ideas to divide our nation. Now that the game has been exposed, we dare not ignore it. We can’t allow ourselves to be hoodwinked again; we must get the truth from Raila. There was no mention or hint of a division of this country in any of the many official NASA manifestos, yet it became a leading part of their propaganda post the August 8 election. We must discern Raila’s thoughts on the matter. If he says clearly and decisively that he respects the territorial integrity of Kenya, and that it should never be divided, then it will be increasingly difficult to change his mind after the election, or at least to do so credibly. If he does think there is merit to the idea, then we as Kenyans should know that those who vote for Raila will be voting for the possibility of ripping Kenya apart, and tearing our people and communities asunder. This will be the end of Kenya and, certainly, the end of democracy, as we know it. However, at least this would be honest and we can make our decision based on the facts and the truth. It is well known that many politicians lie, and are guilty of sins of omission. However, leaving out such a major policy of ending the very nation you wish to lead ahead of the election is no small issue. If there is true support for the idea of secession, then Raila will run on this platform openly and, if he receives majority support then, he will know it is the will of the people. However, that the issue of secession has now been discarded from the agenda ahead of the October 17 election is proof in itself that there are pitifully few takers for this proposal. Thus, when Raila loses again, we should hear no more about dividing our country or secession, from him or any of his acolytes. President Uhuru Kenyatta is running on a platform of a democratic, peaceful and indivisible Kenya. Raila, are you? It is time to tell Kenyans the truth.   