More than 15,000 hunger-stricken Pokot residents in Tiaty subcounty, Baringo County are facing a shortage of food. Among those severely affected are the elderly, children and expectant mothers. "It has been long since the government through Kenya Red Cross distributed donations of food stuffs ... everything now has been consumed," Ng'inyang resident Yugad Losutan told The Star on Sunday. He said the last time maize, beans and rice was disbursed was in May, and many residents are currently spending days and nights without food. "We are urging the government, especially going towards elections in October 17, to remember the hungry Pokot residents," he said. Losutan said children are unable to go to school as they are forced to help their parents look for wild fruits or take care of livestock. He said although the pastoralist community depends on livestock for their livelihood, the emaciated animals are not able to meet market prices. More on this: Let livestock graze in parks or we kill trespassing wildlife, Lenku tells KWS Naudo location chief David Arupe said drought has affected all the seven wards in the region, namely Churo-Amaya, Tangublei-Korossi, Ribko, Kolowa, Silale, Loyamorok and Tirioko. He said the government cash transfer drive only benefits a few orphans and elderly people, while laving out the entire population that is affected by hunger. North Rift regional coordinator Michael Ayabei also said the last time food was disbursed was in May. "The residents in this part of the world seen neglected and it is high time we should join in as Kenyans also to donate to safe live," he said. Neighbouring Samburu is also affected by the situation. On Saturday, a pastor rescued three severely malnourished toddlers in Galma area, Samburu central. They are undergoing treatment at the county referral hospital. UNICEF has said with crops failing and livestock producing too little milk,
nearly 370,000 children across the East African country aren't
getting enough to eat, an increase of 30,000 from February. More on this: Poor rains in Kenya deepens drought, children go hungry - UNICEF