The fire that killed nine students at Moi Girls School in Nairobi was intentional, the government has said.Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, also the acting internal Security CS, said investigations point to arson. &ldquo;It was not an accident. It was arson. Some people have been interrogated. Police are trailing the main suspects,&rdquo; he said yesterday at a press conference in Nairobi.Eight students lost their lives in the dormitory fire in the wee hours of Saturday morning.Another one died yesterday while being treated at Nairobi Women's Hospital.The school has been closed for two weeks to pave the way for investigations. &ldquo;As a ministry we will ensure the school resumes its regular programme, but we feel sad to have lost students as a result of crime,&rdquo; Matiang'i said.He hinted that some students could have been involved. He said the ministry will soon make recommendations to enhance the authority of teachers and principals in schools.&ldquo;We have a liberal environment, which is not good. We want students to understand they must be disciplined,&rdquo; he said. He defended the ministry of education against allegations of failing to prevent arson in schools.Matiang'i said the ministry has implemented 11 out of 20 recommendations related to arson, made through a report last year.&ldquo;We regret what has happened and we will do everything to ensure they are safe and minimise incidents of arson,&rdquo; he said.He said the new recommendations will empower principals to expel unruly students.The proposals would also make it hard for neighbouring communities and sponsoring religious institutions to demand the transfer of principals.&ldquo;Communities cannot say we don't want a principal. TSC employs principals, villages do not. We have to re-look at how we manage indiscipline in the country,&rdquo; he said.Matiang'i said the state will foot the medical bills of the five students who were hospitalised.DNA examinations were yesterday being conducted to identify the bodies of the eight who perished on Saturday.Yesterday, the police also asked parents of the eight to go to Chiromo Mortuary to help in the process.Moi girls had 1,183 students.