DP William Ruto has censured Opposition leader Raila Odinga against threatening IEBC officials saying it is protected by the constitution. His response comes barely hours after the Opposition launched a campaign to oust 12 IEBC officers ahead of the October 17 polls. Raila said NASA will carry out nationwide campaigns against the IEBC. He declared the current IEBC unfit to conduct any polls without a serious purge of officials who abetted the bungling of August 8 polls. "We launch our campaigns against any elections held by IEBC commissioners as constituted. We shall go around the country sensitising people about the IEBC," Raila announced on Sunday. More on this: Raila starts campaign to eject Chiloba, says IEBC and Jubilee are partners in crime "In accordance with our Kenyan constitution IEBC will prepare and oversee presidential elections in October," Ruto said via a tweet on Sunday. "For how long will one man, unable to win elections, continue to blackmail 45m Kenyans using threats of violence, chaos, bloodshed and anarchy?" he posed. He said every IEBC officials is protected by the constitution and should not be threatened. Among electoral officials NASA wants removed is CEO Ezra Chiloba. In two separate statements, the Opposition has said the repeat polls will not proceed if he is not ejected. Read: Orengo reveals NASA plan to block IEBC from conducting polls But Ruto said, "Every Kenyan, those at IEBC included have the protection of the Constitution. Nobody, however mighty, should threaten them in any way or form." Ruto who was mentioned by Raila as being partners in crime with the IEBC further tweeted a quote from a professor. "If one man can be allowed to determine what is law, every man can. That means first chaos, then tyranny," Ruto said quoting Felix Frankfurter. During the press briefing, Raila claimed the IEBC and Jubilee Party are partners in crime and must be reformed through a consultative process before conducting any other poll. "Ruto told us that Chiloba had answered the memo but neither NASA nor the public knows that Chiloba had responded. This is disturbing, IEBC and Jubilee are partners in crime the two need each other," he said. He said if Jubilee is in power they would protect conspirators in IEBC. "Kenyans are coming for you! Salvage what you can and run there will be no election with you in office," he said.