Nurses have rejected the last offer to suspend their strike before next week’s General Election. Governors had asked the health workers to call off their strike to give way for negotiations. In exchange, the governors offered to pay the July salaries and other allowances that have been withheld. The nurses would also not be victimised for taking part in an illegal strike. The Council of Governors had further proposed to jointly appeal on job evaluation and grading of nurses with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. “The county governments offered to withdraw disciplinary action that may have been taken against the nurses and agreed that no party shall be victimised,” the county governments negotiating team led by chairman Joseph Tanui said. The offer was made at the Council of Governors offices yesterday, when county bosses met the Kenya National Union of Nurses. But nurses rejected the offer, saying they are not ready for any negotiations. “We expressed our position clearly that we are not calling off or suspending our strike until the CBA is signed,” union deputy secretary general Maurice Opetu said. Yesterday’s meeting was a follow-up of last week’s talks at CoG offices in Nairobi. The union was represented by Opetu, Halima Ahmed, Joseph Ngwasi, Agnes Munderu, Henry Adolwa and Benson Ambuni. The county governments negotiating team comprised Tanui, Dr Mutile Wanyee, Eliud Muriithi and Justin Kimani. The development comes days after nurses at Kenyatta National Hospital gave the government 48 hours to resolve the nurses strike, failing which they would join the industrial action. The nurses have promised to down their tools in a show of solidarity, saying they are an integral part in the delivery of good health. The countrywide strike now on its 58th day, is aimed at pushing for the implementation of the collective bargaining agreement. National Nurses Association of Kenya national chairman Alfred Obuya said nursing services are the backbone of health functioning in hospitals. “Health personnel are necessary in managing health situation in hospitals and with no nurses, then these are not achievable and that is the current situation in our hospitals,” he said.