Children are the future of our society. It is only by investing in their
well-being today that we can secure their individual and societal future. It is widely accepted that a good education prepares a child to face the
future. No wonder, enhancing access to quality education features among key
targets for development, at national and global levels. In fact, as part of the
Sustainable Development Goals, the world is working towards delivering equal
access to free, quality education from pre-school through primary and secondary
school for all boys and girls by the year 2030. However, of what use is availing good education if schoolchildren cannot
benefit from it, due to avoidable impediments, such as malnutrition and general
malaise? A
recent national survey by the Health ministry showed that one in four
children under the age of five suffers from stunted growth. It also confirmed
worrying levels of wasted and underweight children, as well as a rise in
preschoolers who are obese or overweight. Vitamin deficiency has also been
found to be widespread amongst children under five. The consequences of these
findings are staggering, especially when considered against future aspirations
of these children, their families and the nation. It means that up to a
quarter of our children are not attaining normal physical and intellectual
development due to malnutrition. This has far reaching implications on their
academic pursuits, their future and society's. It is a
well-established fact that malnourished children are prone to infections, hence
spend more time out of school, ailing. Malnutrition robs children of an
enjoyable active life by impairing their daily health and well-being. Beyond performance in
school, undernutrition manifests through reduced capacity to compete in the job
market later in life. For example, there is evidence that more than half of
youth applying to join the disciplined forces are disqualified on account of
inappropriate weight or height. Actually, even when stunted children eventually
become adults, they remain at a high risk of acquiring chronic disease such as
diabetes, hypertension and obesity. These distressful
statistics hardly present a healthy recipe for an ambitious country aspiring to,
in just about 15 years, become newly industrialised, middle-income and with
high quality life to all its citizens in a clean and secure environment. The good news though, is
that there are well tested, inexpensive and locally available interventions,
which could significantly reduce or even eradicate malnutrition. Science has demonstrated
that breakfast, for example, which is the most ignored meal of the day, happens
to be the most important meal in our lives. Accumulated data also shows that individuals
who eat a good breakfast tend to have more strength and endurance as well as
better concentration and problem-solving abilities throughout the day. This means that children
who eat a good breakfast are more likely to pay keener attention in class, and ultimately
perform well in their school work. This is the perfect foundation for a good
future. A well-designed
breakfast should provide up to a quarter of children’s nutrient needs – an
adequate amount of carbohydrates and other essential nutrients to raise the
blood glucose levels and keep the body going. When the body stores
are not replenished during the early morning hours, it results in low blood
glucose levels during the day. This can adversely affect ability to concentrate
and perform mental tasks, which is key for school; in addition to contributing
towards long-term health and development. Thankfully, a good
breakfast can be prepared from many foods that are widely available within most
households across the country. Widely available foods such as sweet potato,
cassava, arrowroot, whole grain chapati, legumes and nuts or whole grain
porridge, with some margarine, make a basis for a good breakfast. Other highly
recommended constituents include an egg, a cup of tea with some milk, whole
bread spread with margarine and a generous helping of fruits. But even with
these food components largely available to most households, various surveys
show the average breakfast as deficient of essential nutrients. Common excuses attributed
to missing a breakfast or not constituting a proper one range from lack of time,
inadequate knowledge and the inability or failure to appreciate the rich
varieties of foods around us. Considering the critical
role that a good nutritious breakfast plays in the future of schoolchildren,
no reason is good enough to compromise their future and that of our society.  The writer is the CEO, Kenya
Medical Association  