Maybe you have been wondering about those
“principles laid down in the Constitution”, to which the Supreme Court referred
to when deciding that the August 8 presidential election had not been conducted
in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Until the Court has delivered its full
judgment, we shall not be sure precisely what the judges were referring to. But
we would like to draw to your attention to what seems to us as one of the most
fundamental principles, which was perhaps not what the Court focussed on, but
is an obvious aspect of “free and fair elections”, the phrase used in Articles
38(2) and 81(e) of the Constitution. The principle to which we refer is the “level
playing field”. The analogy is that of a sport, and the idea that neither side
should have to struggle uphill while the other has an easy, downhill run. THE BENEFITS OF
INCUMBENCY The most obvious cause of tilted playing fields
is incumbency: In various ways, whoever is in office in the run-up to an
election has a range of possible strategies for winning that are beyond the
reach of the other side. The things that ruling parties, presidents and
prime ministers use to win another term are legion. They may try to make peace
(in their own or other countries) shortly before the election. They drop taxes
or raise social benefits as close to elections as they dare. They open,
inaugurate or launch things — airports, roads, railways, hospitals, and bridges,
almost anything — as close to the election time as they dare. They confer other
benefits, like recognising groups as tribes. They know that the public have
rather short memories, and are likely to be most affected by what happens not
long before polling day. And those in power have other tools at their
disposal: A huge number of employees, official vehicles (fuelled at public
expense), broadcasting stations, security machines, that may somehow find
themselves used to purvey the virtues of the regime. Incumbents may have easier
access to public spaces — such as squares, parks and stadiums — for rallies. Not
to mention money in the government coffers; governments have even been known to
print money in the pre-election period, enabling the ruling individual or party
to pay for campaigning, albeit at the cost of causing inflation, and rising
cost of living for the citizens after the election. The other side has far fewer techniques at
their disposal: It can critique what government has done, or point out what it
has not done, but it cannot itself do anything very much, other than promising
to do great things if elected. But for the electors, it may be that a bird
apparently in the hand is worth more than a whole flock in the bush of
promises. Looked at like this, the use of the
opportunities available to incumbents does not seem very fair, does it? OUR CONSTITUTION AND
LAW The drafters of the Constitution were aware of
these temptations. They focussed a lot on parties: These are not to “accept or
use public resources to promote [their] interests or … candidates in elections”.
There must be law to ensure that airtime is fairly allocated to parties,
including during election campaigns, generally regulating broadcasting “to
ensure fair election campaigning”. There must be a political parties fund: This
is not some free gift (of taxpayers’ money, of course, because money does not
grow on trees), but to reduce the temptation to use other public money in a
surreptitious way, or to raise funds from sources that will look for pay-back
after the prize of office is won. The law adds to these provisions. Did you know,
“No government shall publish any advertisements of achievements of the
respective government either in the print media, electronic media, or by way of
banners or hoardings in public places during the election period”?  This in the Election Offences Act s. 14(2) — you
signed it into law, Mr President. Among the most valuable resources are the human
ones. But the same Act is clear that any public officer, who “publicly
indicates support for or opposition against any party, side or candidate
participating in an election” commits an offence and if convicted, may be fined
up to Sh1 million or imprisoned for up to three years (Section 15(1)(b)). And
they may not use public resources to start any development project to support
any candidate in that area. We suggest this includes supporting the President,
who is a candidate in every area. Section 14(1) of this Act prohibits anyone (not
just parties, but candidates or anyone else) using public resources to
campaign. We should perhaps (though we should not need
to) remind you of the guarantee of political neutrality of the security forces.
They must not act in a partisan manner, further any interest of a political
party or cause or prejudice any legitimate political interest or political
cause that is legitimate (Article 139 of the Constitution). OTHER COUNTRIES Some countries go further. For nearly 20 years,
Bangladesh required that for the six months run-up to elections, the Chief
Justice should take over as head of government — to avoid the advantage of
incumbency. In the UK, during the election campaign period,
public servants are expected to go into what is, rather unfortunately, known as
“purdah”: They are expected to avoid doing or saying anything that could help
either side in the forthcoming election. In many countries, it is well established that
major development and policy initiatives should not be taken by government in
the run-up to elections. YOUR POSITION You have been placed in an unusual position.
You are still President, but you are not guaranteed to be in that position for longer
than the time before the swearing in of whoever is elected on October 17. There are clear legal rules for some issues. We
should see no more of the Presidential Delivery Unit, telling us (using public
money to do so) that the Jubilee government has done great things. No county
commissioner or regional coordinator should be preaching the virtues of your
administration (or indeed criticising it). These are clearly against the law.
And let us not see “goodies” dispensed to voters in the form of title deeds, or
(meaningless) recognition of tribes. You cannot be prosecuted; the civil servants
who carry out the bidding of the office of the President are not protected. Even if you are immune from prosecution, the
principles of the Constitution on elections remain. You should abide by them. THE IEBC The commission is not only in charge of administration
of elections, it is the overseer of fair behaviour. It may, for example seize
public vehicles used for elections. It may prosecute offenders under the
elections legislation. Indeed, if it fails to carry out this policing
function it is in breach of this duty — and failing to respect the principle of
the Constitution and the law. FINALLY As President — under whatever circumstances — you
have the obligation to respect, uphold and safeguard the Constitution (stressed
by Article 131). Whether or not you are technically a temporary incumbent under
Article 134, your current role is a temporary one. It is clear that you should
not perform functions that have vote-getting implications. It is regrettable
that you appear already to have breached this principle in your pressurising
members of Parliament over their choices of Speaker in each house. A president reelected on the basis of the
special position, immunities, impunities and privileges, cannot really command
the respect of all citizens and others. Worse would be a president re-elected
on the basis of abuse of the law and the Constitution. Such situations also
demean the high office that you have held for the last four-plus years, now
hold in a different situation, and hope to hold again. This time round, Mr President, can Kenyans see
what a level playing field looks like?   