Huawei Mobile Kenya has added to its array of smartphones in the P Series line with the launch of the P10 Lite in the Kenyan market.You have to love Huawei's design standards and smart software. This mid-range phone is almost half the price of the original P10, yet still offers the same Emotion UI and some respectable specs.First announced in the international market earlier in March, the budget friendly smartphone encompasses all the brand attributes and the sophistication of its predecessors the P10 and P10 Plus at a relatively reduced price making it accessible to a larger percentage of the customers to enjoy the company&acirc;&#128;&#153;s mobile experience. The device sports a 5.5-inch display screen, which is full HD with an LTPS LCD. Its Full HD resolution and its 424 pixels per inch pixel density, the device renders text and imagery cleanly and it prioritizes accuracy over vibrancy with regards to colour. The phone also has an Eye Comfort mode, which can be activated manually or scheduled to shift the colour temperature of the display into a warmer gamut for more comfortable viewing in low light environments or late at night. Smaller in size than its predecessors, it boasts the latest fast charging technology with a 3000mAh battery capacity that takes the phone about 100 minutes to fully charge and provides 2 days of uninterrupted usage of the phone.The new dual SIM P10 Lite comes with a high performance Kirin 658 Chipset; 4GB RAM and EMUI 5.0 processor that presents fast and reliable performance and provides power efficient usage of the phone for all its functions creating an enhanced consumer experience.A set of Leica-branded dual rear cameras is one of the defining aspects of the P10 and P10 Plus but sadly Huawei didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t transpose this signature hardware when selecting the snappers on the Lite. The phone instead uses a single 12-megapixel primary camera with an f/2.2 aperture and a single LED flash on the back, while an 8-megapixel sensor with an f/2.0 aperture sits on the front. However for mid-ranged device, the photography capacity of the phone has not been compromised with the capacity for sharp and high quality. Apart from the more standard modes like HDR and Panorama there are lots of camera modes available including a full manual mode, which offers greater control over ISO, exposure and shutter speed. Other modes include time-lapse, slow motion, and watermark. Huawei also added a light painting mode, that lets you capture light trails created by things like moving cars, or the stars in the sky.The shots taken with the 12MP snapper typically turn out well exposed with an accurate colouring and a pleasingly wide-dynamic range when shooting in higher-contrast situations. Low light shots also come with a surprisingly low amount of grain and noise whilst more exotic modes like Light Painting works better than expected too. The P10 Lite comes in a range of color variants and retails at Sh 34,999 at Huawei Retail stores across the country.