Kisumu legislators have called for speedy investigations into the alleged buying of IDs by Jubilee sympathisers ahead of the October 17 poll. Jared Okello (Nyando) and Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni) as well as two MCAs Ken Ooko (Ahero) and Maurice Ongeta (Awasi-Onjiko) urged the police to probe the matter. This comes after two people were intercepted by a mob in Awasi and Ahero for allegedly buying IDs at between Sh1,000 and Sh5,000. Police later whisked the group away. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Okello said, “We got information some people were arrested by the mob and beaten thoroughly. This brought problems in the area and cannot be ignored.” ID buying has also been reported in Busia, Bungoma and Kakamega counties, he said. Okello said Jubilee fears defeat and is out to reduce NASA’s votes. One needs an original ID to vote. Okello said Jubilee is desperate. He urged the IEBC and security teams not to take the ID buying claims lightly. “The Constitution is clear that you cannot suppress people’s voting and political rights,” he said. Okello continued, “Political rights are rights that cannot be controlled by any government agencies or any individuals. What they are doing is a crime.” County commissioner Maalim Mohammed said the allegations are baseless. He said the two people who were rescued are Shylocks. Mohammed called for tolerance among residents. He warned the public against taking the law into their hands and urged them to instead report matters to the police. Okello insisted IDs are being bought. He said the culprits should be jailed. “If you buy or give people money, that is called undue influence within the context of electoral laws and that is punishable and leads to five years in jail, a Sh1 million fine, or both,” Okello said. Okello said both Jubilee and NASA should go to the ballot and square it off without using underhand tactics. “Let the best team win,” he said. Okello continued, “These unconstitutional acts of buying IDs and intimidating chiefs are useless and must stop,” he said. Koyoo and Ooko said the IEBC should work closely with the police and ensure the culprits are arrested.