Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) have rescheduled the National Sevens Circuit to accommodate the remaining rounds before the repeat presidential election set for October 17. Consequently Dala Sevens, originally set for October 21-22, will now be played on October 6/7 in Kisumu. Sepetuka Sevens will now be played on September 30/October 1 at the Eldoret Sports Club as the original venue in Ngong was not ready at the time of the last inspection. The Christie Sevens will be the final leg of the circuit on October 14-15 at the RFUEA groundWith four tournaments in four weeks, and the importance given to player welfare, KRU have considered an amendment to Regulation 8(a) of the Sevens Circuit manual which allows teams to submit squads of 16 players and four officials per tournament, one of whom must be a doctor/physiotherapist or nurse. Additionally, team managers will be required to submit a team of 12 players for every match from the larger pool of sixteen submitted earlier. This list of 12 can be changed for other matches in the tournament.Elsewhere, KRU of director of rugby Thomas Odundo, said a provisional squad of 28 players will be selected from the circuit to join the Kenya Sevens training squad for the upcoming 2017-2018 World Sevens Series, Commonwealth Games in Perth, Australia and Rugby World Cup Sevens in USA. Odundo said the squad will be whittled down to 18 by November before the start of the World Sevens Series in Dubai in early December. Odundo said a panel of selectors have attended the two opening legs of the circuit and will attend the remaining four tournaments before naming the squad next month. &acirc;&#128;&#156;The panel of selectors have stated their work identifying talent from various clubs,&acirc;&#128;&#157; added Odundo. He said plans are underway to have a developmental team play at various sevens satellite tournaments from early next year. Odundo also announced that Kenya Sevens players will play for their club sides starting with next week&acirc;&#128;&#153;s Prinsloo Sevens in Nakuru.