The ruling Jubilee is at it. They have arrogated to themselves the task of instituting ‘radical’ amendments to the Constitution. By nullifying the August 8 presidential election, the Supreme Court subverted the sovereign will of the people, so goes the Jubilee narrative. The court invalidated President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election victory on account of what it said were clear irregularities and illegalities. In keeping with the principle of integrity and honesty, the court merely upheld the dictates of the Constitution and electoral laws. To call this a travesty is dishonest and a deliberate move to outrightly mislead the country for selfish gains of the individuals and party concerned. Seeking radical amendments that would, among others, strip both the Supreme Court and the IEBC of the powers that make them what they are — independent institutions — is to desecrate the Constitution, which was the basis of the court’s ruling. The concerned individuals and party are seeking to overturn the Constitution. Can a party and its members, under the misguided and fake principle of tyranny of numbers, in a partisan way, overturn the Constitution? This can only come from people hell-bent on sticking to power for power’s sake and, of course, selfish personal ends, whatever the cost to the country. This is taking the tyranny of numbers too far. Tyranny of numbers, as per the prevailing circumstances, is a fallacy. Population demographics are at odds with the claim. The Jubilee diatribe is nothing new. It is but the reenactment of what Kenyans have painfully endured in years gone by. The high and mighty, including the MPs at the service of that class, have always embraced the mistaken view that the laws they make only apply to lesser mortals. Make nonsense of the Constitution today and it will most certainly catch up with the authors of the mischief. Jubilee is seeking radical amendments to the Constitution with the mistaken belief they would forever be exempt. The Constitution was a result of decades of struggle and endless street battles in which many true nationalists and patriots lost their lives and, thousands, if not hundreds of thousands others, ended up with life-long injuries. That joyriders, who never made any contribution to the making of the supreme law, can, unashamedly, stand up in the peoples’ House to, with the stroke of the pen, desecrate it, is unfathomable and unconscionable. Former President Mwai Kibaki who on August 27, 2010, stood on the podium in Uhuru Park, faced the nation and ceremoniously lifted a copy of the Constitution, should break his silence. Let him tell Kenyans whether what appears to be the beginning, yet again, of mutilating the Constitution is acceptable. Chief Justice David Maraga has pledged to protect the Constitution, even at the cost of his own life. It takes a true statesman to do that. In their push for constitutional amendments, Jubilee MPs have but taken a cue from President Uhuru. To the President, the Supreme Court ruling is a coup against the sovereign will of the people. “The judgment has also created uncertainties and raised matters that require legislative attention,” the President said. Leader of the Majority in the Senate, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said, “Once the amendments are passed, the Supreme Court will be caged.” What Jubilee is pushing for comes as no surprise. It confirms that despite their ceaseless claims of victory on August 8, Jubilee did not actually win, hence, the flurry of activities and diatribe, all aimed at arm-twisting everybody to submit to their whims. They must, as it were, be using the claims to cover up the irregularities and illegalities that gave them the fake victory. More importantly, a casual look at Kenya’s contemporary political history, especially with regard to the 2005 referendum, says it all. Both Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto were against the new Constitution. Need anybody wonder that they stand ready and always will, to seize whatever opportunity that comes their way, to scuttle the document? Former MP for Alego-Usonga