Opposition leader Raila Odinga has threatened to call for a boycott of products from corporations he claims were part of the August election rigging scheme. This came after the NASA leader accused Safaricom of abetting rigging through its network during last month's polls. "We are considering beginning a period of economic boycott of products and corporations that are working against the interest of Kenyans," he told journalists on Wednesday. Raila said they "will not allow Kenya to be the playground to forces who want to stifle the country's progress". "Big corporations are part and parcel of killing democracy in Kenya. We have the power and if they want to stifle our democracy, we can retaliate," he said. Safaricom bought space to lament that it is being targeted by the opposition which has said it will not take part in the October 26 election unless IEBC is reformed. "We can react by telling our people not to buy the services of this and that corporation. That time is coming but it has not come yet. There is notice," the ODM leader said. Safaricom denied the claims raised by the opposition saying they did their work as specified in the contract it signed with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. CEO Bob Collymore, in a statement on Tuesday, said the firm transmitted all election results from the KIEMS kits to IEBC servers as per the laid down procedures. "The transmission of the results from the servers to the national tallying centre at the Bomas of Kenya was solely IEBC's mandate," he said. Read: Safaricom didn't collude with IEBC to rig polls, Collymore tells Raila Raila spoke after a meeting with Maa leaders at the Okoa Kenya secretariat offices in Lavington, Nairobi. He cited the case of South Africans during the struggle against apartheid adding that: "We may be forced to do it our struggle for our democracy in Kenya." PROTESTS TO CONTINUE The opposition chief further said the anti-IEBC demos will continue next week in all county headquarters. He said the protests will be held on Mondays and Fridays until key secretariat officials suspected to have bungled the last election are shown the door. On Tuesday, police were forced to fire tear gas to disperse NASA and Jubilee supporters after they clashed outside IEBC's Anniversary Towers offices. Read: Police fire teargas to disperse NASA, Jubilee supporters NASA supporters chanted 'Chiloba must go' before they confronted by a group of Jubilee's who shouted 'We want peace'. Among those NASA wants out, for allegedly bungling the August presidential election, is Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba. In Kisumu, Raila Odinga's supporters marched peacefully in solidarity with their NASA counterparts in Nairobi. On foot and motorcycles, they also shouted that reforms must take place at the commission before the repeat election on October 26. Read: 'Chiloba must go': NASA's KIsumu supporters begin anti-IEBC march UHURUTO DEFENDING IEBC Raila said President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are defending the IEBC so as to continue the rigging scheme that saw results of the last poll nullified. "Uhuru is telling us that IEBC is independent and should be left to do its work. But they are busy attacking judges of the Supreme Court who are also independent." He said the president is yet to answer to the opposition on the question of whether IEBC will ensure the fresh vote is free, fair, credible, and transparent. "The question the Maa community is struggling with is the same one many other communities are asking; why should Kenyans expect IEBC to do the right thing in October?" "And this is the question Uhuru Kenyatta and his team do not want to answer," Raila said.