A Kenyan woman is so proud of Opposition chief Raila Odinga that she has spent Sh400,000 encouraging him in a local daily. The woman identified only as Lilian paid for a half page space in Thursday's Daily Nation to express appreciation for the NASA leader and what he stands for. "You were mocked and ridiculed...but the truth vindicated you. Thank you for being our voice. Do not tire...we see you. We are with you." This was in reference to Raila's refusal to concede defeat to President Uhuru Kenyatta after the August 8 general election. He accused IEBC of ignoring massive irregularities in the election and announcing that Uhuru got at least 1.4 million more votes than he did. Following Raila's petition at the Supreme Court, Chief Justice David Maraga cancelled Uhuru's victory and ordered a repeat election which will take place on October 17. The two leaders have been campaigning, the Opposition demanding major changes at the electoral agency before they can participate in the election. More on this: Raila wins as Supreme Court nullifies Uhuru re-election Also read: You belong in jail, Raila tells 'shameful' UhuRuto after Chebukati memo Lilian said: "You are already our winner. Thank you for restoring the dignity of the poorest in Kenya and restoring my dignity as a Kenyan." She further thanked the Opposition leader for the new constitution, devolution and revealing corruption and injustices in Kenya. "Thank you for being our voice," she repeated. During an interview with Reuters last week, Raila said he will make the mismanagement annulled presidential vote the focus of his new election campaign, linking it to a series of political scandals. "Right now, we are basically dealing with the rigging of elections, which is basically an extension of corruption," he said. But Raila's words may resonate with Kenyans tired of the corruption scandals that have dominated front pages in recent years, including allegations that Sh5.2 billion and Sh1.78 billion went missing from the Health Ministry and National Youth Service respectively. More on this: 'Cry baby' Uhuru faces KOT wrath after corruption frustration The auditor general regularly issues scathing reports about missing funds but action is rarely taken and no top official has been successfully prosecuted. Raila, who presents himself as a champion of the poor, built his previous campaign on criticism of high inflation and shortages of the staple maize flour after a regional drought. He has criticised government borrowing and promised to lower the deficit by improving revenue collection and slashing graft. The ODM leader said he would preserve the large infrastructure projects that were the centrepiece of Uhuru's re-election campaign. More on this: Raila to focus on corruption in campaigns for October election 