Kanduyi Member of Parliament Wafula Wamunyinyi’s father
has died at the age of 87 years old after some illness. NASA presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga is expected
to attend the burial of the late Mzee Mathew Wafula at Tuti Marakaru ward in
Kanduyi on Saturday. The funeral is likely to draw a lot of politics from both NASA and Jubilee county leaders  as leaders will use the platform for campaigns. Speaking to the star in Bungoma town yesterday the
Ford Kenya party chairman said that Mzee’s death is a blow to the family who
will miss him a lot. Mzee Mathew leaves behind 2 widows, 26 children,
137 grand children, 110 great grand children. The late Mzee Mathew Austine Wafula Wamunyinyi was
born on 22nd June 1930 as a second born child of the Late Domian
Wamunyinyi  Misiko (Omukimwei) and the
Late Mama Virginia Namikoye (Omuchemwile). He was a brother to Nicholas, Augustine, Clementine,
Priscilah, Stephen, Emerenziana the Late Joseph , the late Zakayo, the late
Teresa, the late Bartholomew , the late Demtila and the late Peter. ‘After his retirement
he was appointed to serve as a member of the land Control Board, he was also appointed
as land Tribunal Court Elder as a Land assessor, said Wamunyinyi.. The MP said that as a
teacher and administrator Mzee initiated and contributed to the various
development projects in the area besides serving on many boards and committees. ‘My father who has been instrumental in decision
making in my political life that i have been an MP here in Kanduyi for the past
20 years is because of  my dad,’ he said. Wamunniyi said that his father lived a
healthy and active public life even after losing his sight following an eye
operation (to remove cataract) at Kikuyu Hospital. ‘At the beginning of August, 2017 Mzee
suffered from urine obstruction which caused generalized body infection as a
result of acute urine infection.    His
condition was made worse by an apparent kidney failure.  He was treated at St Domiano Mission Hospital
and later transferred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital where he was
hospitalized until his death on 5th September, 2017 at about mid
night,’ he said. He said that his father taught st
Khachonge Primary School from 1949 until 1952 
when he was posted  to
Ebunangwe  Primary School in the current
Vihiga County. In 1953 he was
transferred to Bungoma as the founding Headmaster of Bungoma D.E.B. Primary
School, which later gave birth to the current Bungoma High School. In 1960 he was
appointed Assistant Chief ( Lukongo,   North Kanduyi 
Sub location. He was later promoted
to Senior Assistant Chief the position he held until his retirement in 1984. Mzee Mathew served as
Area Commissioner of Boys Scouts in the Elgon Nyanza and contributed immensely
to the development of scouting in the region and more particularly in the
current Bungoma County. Mzee also served as a senior rehabilitation
Officer of Dini ya Musambwa Members/followers after it was banned. Several Bungoma leaders lead by senator
Moses Wetangula and governor Wycliffe Wangamati have send their condolences to
the family.