The agitation for parts of Kenya to secede has refused to go away, even after the Supreme Court overturned the disputed presidential election. Two residents on Monday filed a petition seeking the autonomy of western Kenya. Previously, calls for a formal separation were spearheaded by renowned economist David Ndii. An online petition drew signatures from around the country. Reasons cited for self-determination included “the culture of rigged elections, economic marginalisation and extrajudicial killings and other forms of human rights abuses”. While the push cooled down after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection was nullified, Mathew Mwilitsa and Alex Matisa have put it back on the agenda. They are asking the court to let the people of what used to be Eastern Province of Uganda under the colonial rule to decide their political future in a referendum. This is not the first time Kenya is facing a secession drive. Previous attempts fizzled out naturally, apart from the Shifta war and the MRC cases, where the separatist movements were subdued by police and court actions. In 1998, the late Kihika Kimani and Mwai Kibaki, in protest against executions, called for the divorce of Central Kenya from the rest of the country. Between 1963-67, ethnic Somalia, in what was then known as the Northern Frontier District, waged a secessionist agenda, attempting to split away and join their ‘relatives’ in Somalia, in what is now known as the Shifta war. In 1999, irked by perceived historical injustices, political and economic discrimination against the Coast people, the separatist movement Mombasa Republican Council (MRC) was formed. MRC pegged its secession demands on the 1895 British deal that transferred the 10-mile coastal strip to the government of Kenya from Zanzibar. The group, which remained largely dormant in its formation year, emerged with gusto in 2008, riding on the ‘Pwani Si Kenya’ slogan. It sought to break away from Kenya, accusing it of pervasive marginalisation. The government responded by banning the organisation. The matter was further adjudicated in court and dispensed. ‘Secession impossible’ was the ruling that put the debate on a snooze mode. Now the debate is back, gaining traction, loud and with diverse national voices. NDII TRIGGERS STORM Writing his weekly commentary in the Nation newspaper of March 26 last year, Ndii argued that Kenya is “a cruel marriage and it is time to talk divorce”. The comment elicited massive criticism, especially among those allied to Jubilee government, who termed it incitement. Ndii, now a member of NASA’s coordinating committee, became the face of the self-determination drive. Eighteen months later, the secession debate is back, triggered by the conduct of the August 8 polls, which is being adjudicated at the Supreme Court after NASA disputed the presidential results. “Politics of separatism is fairly normal. There was the Scottish referendum and then Brexit. There is 19th century French philosopher Ernest Renan, who characterised nations as a daily plebiscite. The point he was making is that the constituent parts of a nation are in a willing union. That they are free to leave,” Ndii said. The outspoken scholar told NTV on August 23 that he is only provoking a debate, and that the nation should not ignore or deny that it can fight. “A society where legitimate political dissent is closed inevitably ends up with people taking up arms. People do not accept subjugation forever. Even slaves used to have uprisings,” he said. The debate took a life of its own, with a petition whose promoters are undisclosed being signed online. The petition targets 15 million signatures before it can be tabled at the African Commission on Human and People’s Rights for consideration. If successful, Coast region, Kisii, Nyanza, Western Eastern and parts of Rift Valley, which includes Turkana, Samburu, Narok and Kajiado counties, will break away, forming a new state to be known as People’s Republic of Kenya, whereas the rest will remain in a new country known as the Central Republic Kenya. Attorney General Githu Muigai said: “Read the constitution, the preamble. It says Kenya is one unified whole republic affirmed by the 2010 constitution. That is the law. The only levels of autonomy are the counties, and the Constitution affirms that even in its preamble.” DEBATE ‘NOT NEW BUT MORE INTENSE’ Francis Ole Kaparo, chairman of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, termed the debate on dismembering the nation reckless talk with a terrible connotation. Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe dismissed those calling for secession, asking them to migrate to Somali if they do not feel contented. “As a government, we have no intention of engaging political activists. They have their opinions but where they will threaten security, security forces will be watching over them. As far as entitlement to your ideas is concerned, you can even decide to migrate and go to Somalia,” he said. Governance expert Tom Mboya said the secession debate is not new, but it has reached new levels. “How did Kenya reach the point where some citizens feel they belong while others do not?” he said. Mboya said in more than 50 years of Independence, presidents have come only from two communities, and the political schemes being worked out are aimed at hoarding power in same communities, which is putting Kenya at its worst odds. Appointments to senior government positions have often followed similar ethnic lines, which is cementing the feeling that some people are more Kenyan than others, he said. “The secession debate seems to be coming from a feeling of exclusion: a feeling by some that the instruments of state are perpetually in the same hands, and that perhaps one of their own may never become president, for whatever reason,” Mboya said. “The feeling of exclusion is powerful, and should not be ignored. If some Kenyans say they are feeling that way, then we have a serious problem to address,” he added. Regarding other nations’ secessionist experiences, he said: “There is no text book or manual for guidance. However, the first step in dealing with this sense of exclusion must be to listen. If some people are feeling excluded, listen to them as they recount why they feel that way,” he said, adding that ridiculing or dismissing sentiments or telling them simply that it’s the way of life may worsen the situation. He called for more ventilation and discussion on the issue, a view shared by advocate and international law expert Orina Mokaya. “Under international law and our constitution, the right to secede can be exercised through a plebiscite,” Mokaya said. “However, the standard set under the international and domestic laws for self-determination is tough, making it almost impossible for proponents to achieve the set threshold.” WHAT THE LAW SAYS Mokaya said for a secessionist case to be considered, proponents must prove that there are high, systematic, militaristic human rights abuses and serious marginalisation that makes them not to belong. “But whether the secession quest is successful or not, this debate might achieve another function of addressing a deep-seated feeling of exclusion. Because when a couple starts talking about divorce, it gives them a chance to start talking or reevaluating their relationship,” he said, as he called for rethinking of the whole national governance structure. Even though the constitution advocates for one unitary state, activist Okiya Omtata said article 285 allows negotiation on everything, including Kenya’s territory. However, it can only be made possible through a referendum. Omtata cited a UN agreement Kenya has ratified that gives all people the right to self-determination: the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights ( 1966 ). “This means Kenyans are free to determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development,” Omtata said. However, the UN is averse to breaking up democratic states that hold frequent free and fair elections, have independent governance institutions and a functional criminal justice system. “Therefore, for one to opt for the extreme measure of secession, he has to prove that all non-radical measures of self-determination, for instance the ballot and criminal justice, are not working,” he said. Besides endorsing the reality that the state is united by consent and not force, the fact that the constitution does not prohibit amendment to any matters, including of Kenya’s territory, means that, implicitly, even if inadvertently, it recognises a procedural right to secession. “That right is not substantive, absolute, unilateral or unlimited. It is heavily qualified by the imposition of procedural hurdles, allowing the Kenyan state to use the rule of law to control the secession process through consensual negotiation,” he said. However, Omtata said dismembering the country would not be a good idea, but amending article 138 of the constitution on how a president is elected will cure some of the exclusion sentiments. “Our greatest contestation in Kenya is on power and how to have free and fair elections. By amending the constitution, we can allow the declaring of the President as winner to be weighted through counties, so one must garner majority support from the counties. Just as it’s done in the US,” he said.