The anti-corruption agency is probing an arson fire that burnt Homa Bay county offices two weeks ago. The fire occured two days after the EACC sent a demand letter asking for documents. The commission wants to ascertain if the fire was an attempt to conceal evidence of the alleged loss of Sh4 billion ahead of the election. A county government official, who was quizzed by the detectives, yesterday said their homes were also searched. Two days before the inferno, the EACC raided the procurement and finance offices in search of documents linking senior officials to massive looting of public funds. Investigators took away several computers and files. A source said the investigators were interested in personal records and payment documents for contracts. They were also interested in withdrawals from standing imprest accounts, emergency accounts and the Roads department accounts. The agency sent a demand letter for the documents that were not retrieved. The letter raised questions about the millions of shillings withdrawn from the emergency fund accounts days to the poll. According to the source, the demand letter and the raid sent the county officials into a panic. Homa Bay Directorate of Criminal Investigation Joseph Tuksho said they have recorded statements from four officials. Other senior officials have been summoned. Tuksho told journalists preliminary investigations revealed the inferno was an inside job. Police arrested a man at the scene who suffered serious burns. He was taken to court and charged with setting the offices onfire and destroying equipment worth Sh5million. Byron Adis was also charged alongside and other suspects not in court with breaking into the county government offices with intent to burn them. Appearing before Homa Bay senior principal magistrate Thomas Obuto, the accused denied the offence. The suspect’s lawyer, Ken Omollo, argued he was injured and needed bond to seek medical attention. “I ask that the suspect be givenbond to enable him seek treatment for the burns. Denying that is inhumane,” said Lawyer Omollo. The magistrate released the suspect on a Sh1million bond pending hearing of the case on November 6.