Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked Deputy President William Ruto to produce evidence that IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati meets NASA leaders secretly. “If there is anyone meeting the IEBC officials secretly, it’s Jubilee. We actually know that [CEO Ezra] Chiloba is working for Ruto. Chiloba is Ruto’s sidekick and we know it,” he said on Monday. Kalonzo spoke during a Wiper leaders’ meeting at Machakos Golf Club. He said it is reckless for a person of Ruto’s stature to make such an allegation without any evidence. Ruto made the claim on Monday night during an interview on Citizen TV. “Ruto should produce evidence of his claims or he stands condemned. A whole Deputy President cannot mislead a whole nation,” Kalonzo said.  cleanup commission Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu said she has evidence of Jubilee leaders meeting the IEBC commissioners at night. “They are accusing us of meeting with IEBC officers secretly, yet they are the ones doing it. I recently bumped into one of their secret meeting, and to their surprise I actually went and greeted them. I have the photos and if they want I can produce evidence,” she said. Ngilu urged the NASA principals not to participate in the repeat election without a proper cleanup in the commission. “Please, please my brother Raila Odinga and your deputy Kalonzo Musyoka do not lead us to the slaughterhouse again. If you ask me, both Chebukati and Chiloba should vacate office,” she said. Ngilu said if Jubilee has numbers as they always claim, they would not have interfered with the IEBC servers.  Criminal proceedings Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said they are in the process of filing criminal charges against Chiloba. “I want to advise the young man by the name Ezra Chiloba to resign because history will judge him very harshly some day. The least this man will spend in Jail is 20 years,” he said. The leaders were drawn from the three Ukambani counties – Kitui, Machakos and Makueni. They told President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto to forget the Kamba vote. They dismissed as self-seeking the leaders who pledged allegiance to Uhuru at State House on Monday. “Those ... are practising something called tumbocracy, politics of the stomach, and they are lost,” Kilonzo said. The team was headed by former Wiper chairman David Musila and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. 