The August 8 General Election has offered some invaluable lessons both to the ruling Jubilee Party and the opposition. The first is never be overconfident or let your guard down. Jubilee, for some unexplained reason, arrogance or ignorance, thought the August 8 election was a done deal and it was a question of when, not if, they would emerge victorious. They failed to factor in unanticipated, unintended or unforeseen consequences, thus falling afoul of the law of unexpected consequences. Someone somewhere must have advised President Uhuru Kenyatta that the election was a done deal, a wrap. The ruling on the NASA petition appears to have caught the President absolutely and completely off guard. His reaction was as shocking as it was unpresidential. The man threw a public tantrum and bandied insults left right and centre. Never in the history of independent Kenya has an arm of government been so viciously vilified. Jubilee even organised public protests against the Supreme Court, placing the lives of judges in mortal peril. The friendly mien of the President evaporated as he became viciously vindictive.  Presidential handlers completely failed to rein in his public rants as he harangued the Judiciary. He even accused them of staging a civilian coup. How absurd! If indeed there had been a coup, then Uhuru would not be President. Perhaps he meant ‘attempted coup’. None of his legal advisers has come out to correct this anomaly. The demeanour of the President since the election has been wanting. The presidency being the focus of our nationhood is a highly venerated office. It is akin to royalty and the holder is expected to conduct himself/herself with dignity.  Former holders of the post, Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki were men of regal bearing and incredible presence. Grown men would tremble in their presence. I recall a day immediately after the murder of Nyandarua MP JM Kariuki, when this writer and several friends vowed never to respond to Kenyatta’s Kanu one-finger salute to express our outrage. Kenyatta drove through the city of Nairobi standing out of the sun-roof of the state Mercedes-Benz 600 Pullman with Air Force fighter jets screaming overhead. We stood resolute not to salute him until his “penetrating lion eyes” turned to our direction and all fingers inexplicably waved. To this day I cannot explain it. Moi would enter a room, wave his rungu and even diehard opposition members would automatically rise. What am I saying? That a President who whines and issues edicts that cannot be enforced devalues the presidency. I regret to say this, but opposition leader Raila Odinga is currently setting our national agenda. One doesn’t have to be a rocket scientist to figure that out. Uhuru said there would be an election on October 17 and Raila said nyet! Who carried the day? Raila has said Chiloba and others must go and Uhuru stood his ground in their support. Incredibly some have started crawling out of the woodwork and as much as I hate to state this, Raila will have his day.  One would be forgiven for asking who current President is. A Commander-in-Chief issues only legally enforceable orders. Otherwise it is wise to remain silent. Raila is currently badgering and goading the President and he is falling for it each time. Why? His judgement is clouded by anger and all manner of unmanageable or uncontrollable emotions.  Get a grip, man. Borrow a leaf from the gentleman of Kenyan politics, Musalia Mudavadi. Even if you light a fire under his seat his demeanour will not alter.  The expression on his face remains constant, even when facing Armageddon. This gives strength and power to his supporters as they know their boss is in charge. When a commander whines and throws tantrums his soldiers take flight to save their hides! Is anybody in Jubilee listening?