Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge is unfazed by the challenge of facing former world record holder, Wilson Kipsang and Ethiopian star Kenenisa Bekele in the Berlin Marathon on September 24. The trio will be attempting to break the world record at the event and Kipchoge is confident that he has what it takes to break the current world record of 2:02:57 set by Dennis Kimetto in 2014. “I have run with Bekele on the track and in various road races and also my friend Kipsang and I have nothing to fear. I am relishing the challenge of going to break the world record,” he added. This will be the third time Kipchoge will be running in Berlin having finished second in 2013 in 2:04:05 and winning the event in 2015 in a time of 2:04:00. Kipchoge said his experience in Berlin two years ago will go a long way aid in his quest to break the world record. “I have fond memories of winning the event two years ago and I know the course very well. I am well prepared for the event,” added Kipchoge. Kipchoge ran unofficial 2:00:25 in the Nike Breaking project in Monza, Italy in company of alongside Eritrea’s Zersenay Tadese and Ethiopia’s Lelisa Desisa. Kipchoge was speaking yesterday after signing a one year ambassadorial deal with car manucfurers, Isuzu. The brand partnership will see the former world 5,000m champion handed MY 16 Isuzu Dmax double cabin cab worth Sh7m for his training and personal use as well as full servicing of the vehicle during the period of the partnership. Should Kipchoge break the world record in Berlin, Isuzu will reward him with luxury double cab pick-up valued at Sh5.9m. “I’m very excited to partner with Isuzu as their brand ambassador and I look forward to growing the Isuzu brand to greater heights,” noted Kipchoge. Isuzu East Africa chief financial officer Charles Kariuki, said the brand ambassador partnership is vital to the realisation of Isuzu East Africa business objective while at the same time uplifting the sports sector in Kenya. “Through this partnership, we will be drawn from Kipchoge’s success to further boost our Isuzu visibility, drive sales and at the same time support him in his journey of success,” he said.