Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama told a church congregation on Sunday NASA’s Raila Odinga will never be President, just as his father Jaramogi Odinga failed to be elected. The Jubilee lawmaker said history will repeat itself and Raila will retire from active politics without rising to the coveted office. Wanyama spoke at PEFA Sinoko Church in his constituency. Jaramogi was Kenya’s first Vice President but fell out with President Jomo Kenyatta barely three years after Independence. The father of Kenya’s multiparty politics ran for President in 1992 but came fourth. He died in 1994, when he was the official opposition leader in the seventh Parliament. “When the Lord has blessed your family with the power to lead, it’ll trickle down the family line, even if someone tries hard to stop it. That’s the case with Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. Wanyama said just like the Kenyatta, who ruled Kenya, Uhuru, his son, will win the repeat poll and continue being the President. He urged residents to vote for Uhuru on October 26. Wanyama said Luhyas do not owe Raila anything and he cannot use the community to ascend to power, having failed before. He urged Raila to stop stirring up tension through demands. NASA wants the IEBC reformed because it was indicted by the Supreme Court for bungling the August 8 polls. “We know how we voted and we will repeat the same. We don’t want a scenario where voters are under a lot of pressure that will keep some from voting,” he said. “Nyanza wants to seclude themselves from the rest of Kenyans. We can see this clearly by what’s happening in this country. Even my senator, Moses Wetang’ula, won’t be the leader of Minority in the Senate again. “Let’s be wise as children of Mulembe and vote back Uhuru, who has initiated a lot of development in this county and Western.” Wanyama said Bungoma has already benenfitted through the Senate speaker seat held by former Governor Kenneth Lusaka. He added more will follow. He condemned an incident in Buema village, Kanduyi, at the burial of MP Wafula Wamunyinyi’s father two weeks ago. Two Jubilee MPs were almost lynched by irate youths. “Luhyas have big respect for the dead and we usually carry ourselves with decorum in funerals. If you see such things happen, especially to leaders, we feel ashamed,” he said. “I want to tell Ford Kenya politicians and members that gone are the days when people heckled leaders in funerals due to political differences.” Wanyama said those who did it thought Raila would thank them “for securing the region for him”. He said he would continue his good development record to transform the constituency. ODM branch chairman Ali Balala was present. The Maraka MCA urged peace and told residents to vote for Raila so he can liberate Kenya from Jubilee’s misrule.