Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa has expressed his displeasure with the pace of renovation works at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium, Eldoret. While taking a Confederation of African Football delegation - led by tournament director Mohammed Khaled El Shawarby - on an inspection tour of the facility, Mwendwa observed that the construction work is behind the scheduled and called on the engineers to pull up their socks. “Of all the stadia in Kenya set to host the Chan matches, Kipchoge Keino is quite behind the schedule. There is much to be done in order to beat the deadline,” said Mwendwa. He told the contractors to re-adjust their plan to fit the December 1 Caf deadline since the venue should be ready one month before the tournament kicks off. The contractors had contractors work plan showed that construction will continue up to mid December. However Nick directed them to finish the works on December 1. “We have been clear on the contractors that they should finish by December 1. The have agreed to adjust their work plan since we have to get the venue ready a month to the kick off date (January 11),” said Mwendwa added. According to Mwendwa, Eldoret must host the tournament and they will devise a strategy to have it completed on time. “The contracts were awarded and the Ministry of Sports has released the money. Eldoret has sports fanatics and that is why we are bringing this event,” he said. He allayed fears that Kenya might be stripped off the rights to host the prestigious tournament. He said the other venues in Kinoru, Kasarani and Nyayo are on the right course and there is no way Kenya will be denied the chance to host the tournament. “The government has shown their commitment and everything is moving in the right direction. The machinery are in place and I want to assure that Kenya is poised for greater things as the tournament is set to be held here,” he said. He, however, said they will have a meeting with Caf on September 23 in Accra. “As far as I am concerned, I haven’t received any reports that Kenya will not host the event. There is even no other country which has shown interest. We are having a meeting with Caf and we will deliberate on more issues,” he said.