Doctors yesterday told striking nurses not to go back to work until their CBA is signed and implemented. The nurses strike started on June 5. It enters day 115 today. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union secretary general Ouma Oluga and chairman Samuel Oroko told the nurses not to be threatened in their fight for better pay and working conditions. "The health sector is bleeding. The government must address the issues affecting health sector across the board," Oroko said. Secretary general Ouma Oluga said the government should be ashamed, because they are busy glorifying the health sector, yet they are not making any effort to end the strikes by the nurses, clinical officers, lab technicians and the pharmaceutical technologists. “You cannot talk about healthcare without mentioning the nurses' strike. When healthcare workers are asking for their rights they ignore us like a plague. Nurses are a critical workforce in the health sector,” Oluga said. Oluga and Oroko spoke outside Parliament, where the nurses were seeking audience with the lawmakers. They claimed that governors and officials from the Health ministry do want to end their strike. Before marching to Parliament, the nurses had just been teargassed by riot police outside the Health ministry offices, where they begun their peaceful march. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako termed the
incident "shameful". “We notified police that we are going to hold peaceful protests
yesterday. We only asked to be given security not to be teargassed,” he said. Riot police threw four teargas canisters at them. Singing the workers “solidarity together” anthem, they finally
marched to Parliament. The union has also demanded the closure of nursing schools
until their strike ends. "The students are being given half-baked information.
Where are they doing their practicals? Who is supervising them?" Panyako
asked. The union also gave nurses who have not joined in the strike 24 hours to do so.  