The Nation Treasury is set to present a proposal to Parliament on reducing government spending to supplement the presidential election rerun scheduled for October 17. Speaking during the launch of the Medium-Term Budget preparation process for the 2018/19 fiscal year, Treasury CS Henrey Rotich said the budget of Sh12.2 billion presented by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission was likely to surpass Sh15 billion. This, Rotich said, would be due to factoring in of related activities, mainly security measures to be taken during the repeat presidential poll. “We are in this regard reorganising the government planned spending for this year, which we shall in due course be submitting to the National Treasury for necessary approval,” Rotich said. The measures to be presented to Parliament within the next two weeks include a freeze in foreign travel, purchase of furniture, hospitality, and purchase of vehicles. This comes a day after the chief of staff and head of public service Joseph Kinyua sent out a letter to the department of immigration and the ministry of foreign affairs barring government officials from traveling outside the country. “This is to notify you that it has been decided, until further advised otherwise, no government official will travel outside the country without clearance by the President,” Kinyua said in the letter. The officials mentioned include Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries and officers in ministries, chief executive officers of parastatals and their officers and boards of directors of parastatals. On September 1, the Supreme Court ruled Kenyatta’s reelection was null and void, citing electoral irregularities, ordering a rerun. An addition of at least Sh15 billion to the election kitty will bring the amount spent on this year’s general election to over Sh60 billion, making it the most expensive election budget in Africa in recent times. In the runup to the August 8 election, the country spent up to Sh50 billion. It is estimated that the IEBC used over Sh41.3 billion to hire personnel, procure election materials, conduct awareness campaigns, as well as collect and transmit results. The election body has already presented the Sh12.2 billion draft budget to the National Treasury, requesting that the estimate be released with speed to enable the commission to prepare adequately Rotich lamented that the prolonged electioneering period has negatively affected the country’s economy.