Jubilee caravan was on Tuesday received coldly in Mwingi as angered residents stoned the caravan smashing several windows of the cars when the Jubilee supporters raised their voice saying the Government is theirs and they will still win no matter what. The caravan which had come from Thika as they claimed had no Jubilee leader or supporter from Ukambani accompanying them not even the former Mwingi central MP Joe Mutambu who lost the seat to Wiper MP Gideon Mulyungi. The Caravan came when the residents’ mood was still disturbed by the local leaders and losers who had gone to meet the president on Monday in Nairobi. Things started turning sour when the residents shouted NASA to reply the Jubilee supporters who were drumming support for Uhuru Kenyatta.   They raised Kalonzo and Raila Odingas posters just to bore the Jubilee supporters even after the police confronted them they could stop at nothing until they started stoning the caravan. “We cannot allow these people to underrate us together with our leader Kalonzo Musyoka. We are firmly and solidly behind NASA and we will support it to the very end. They have known this is a Wiper party zone and we have had enough from Jubilee despite using their baits to hook us. Have you ever heard of any Kikuyu leader who was elected in Wiper ticket or ODM?  And why is it that the Kambas are the only fools used by Jubilee to disunite us,” Wondered irate resident who didn’t want the mention of his name. The residents started stoning the caravan near Mwingi Total petrol station and escorted it near the Tyaa roadblock which is a kilometer away from Mwingi market where they smashed several cars windows. Police were forced to shoot in the air to disperse the angered residents who ran for safety as the angered Jubilee supporters dissented on journalists trying to force them delete everything they had captured in their cameras but the Journalists did not entertain them. The Jubilee supporters recorded a statement with Mwingi police and police are still investigating the matter.