The National Assembly Majority leader yesterday generated a storm in the House after he hinted that Jubilee would introduce amendments to the election laws today. NASA MPs vehemently opposed the morning sitting. They said it was an ambush. According to the motion moved by Aden Duale, the meeting is essentially to debate “specified issues”. The specified issues include the supplementary budget tabled yesterday and the controversial amendments to the Elections Act that seek to revert the transmission of election results to manual, making electronic transmission complementary. In her ruling last week, Supreme Court Judge Njoki Ndung’u said the interpretation of Section 83 of the Elections Act by the majority would unleash “jurisprudential confusion never witnessed before”. “Parliament must, therefore, untie the hands of courts below by clarifying the meaning of Section 83 of the Elections Act. That is the only way that we can avert a crisis of jurisprudence in such a sensitive area of law as elections,” Ndung’u said. NASA’s Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Wilberforce Ojiambo (Funyula) told Jubilee to wait until the fresh presidential election set for October 26 is concluded. “I plead with the Jubilee side to wait. There is no need for this House to rush. We want to move together as a House. If the amendments are introduced now, it’ll increase the political temperatures across the country,” Wamalwa said. Ojiambo said, “I oppose this motion. It is suspicious, mischievous and meant to divide this country.” After a protracted tussle on whether to have a sitting this morning, Speaker Justin Muturi had to intervene by putting the question for members to vote. In the first round where MPs were required to either shout “Yes” or “No”, Jubilee — the majority in the House — carried the day. But NASA MPs stood, forcing the Speaker to call for voting. Jubilee still carried the day, prompting NASA members to storm out in protest. Meanwhile, Jubilee presented 11 names of members to the ad-hoc committee that will go through the Supplementary Estimates for the financial year 2017-18. The committee will be chaired by Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East). JP members include Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Fatuma Ali (Wajir), Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Aloise Lentoimanga (Samburu North) and Moses Lesonet (Eldama Ravine). Others are Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Katib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Golicha Wario (Bura) and Sarah Lekorere (Laikipia North). 