Jubilee leaders in North Rift said they will deliver the 1.7 million votes in the region to back President Kenyatta in the October 17 repeat presidential elections. The elected leaders have been holding frequent meetings to scheme on how they will campaign ahead of the polls ordered by the Supreme Court. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet are leading the Jubilee campaigns. “We will have all our MPs, Senators, MCAs and woman representatives hitting the ground to ensure that we reach every voter and urge them to give support to President Kenyatta and DP Ruto,” said Governor Sang. Sang who addressed the Nandi County Assembly on Tuesday, urged the MCAs not to waste time but move to the ground and seek votes for the president. “I urge all of us who have been elected to hit the campaign trail and get the Jubilee government back to power. Let us all mobilize our voters to come out in large numbers on the October 17 and vote for Uhuru”, said Sang. Sang regretted that the Supreme Court nullified the August 8 polls over what he described as minor clerical mistakes by the IEBC. “It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court took a position that amounted to defeating the will of the 15 Million Kenyan voters on account of minor clerical mistakes by IEBC staff,” said Sang. Governor Sang has been a vocal supporter of the Jubilee administration. He has marshaled all the MCAs including those who were elected on NASA and Independent tickets to back President Kenyatta and DP Ruto. Already three MCAs elected on NASA tickets have declared support for the re-election of the Jubilee administration. They include Jackson Swadi (Kabwareng), Geoffrey Kevolwe (Kiptuiya) and Eliud Kirongo(Kapkangani). Mandago and Tolgos said they would each go out to ensure a very high voter turnout in their respective regions. “We will even compete among ourselves to ensure that we have the highest possible turn out of voters,” said Tolgos. Governor Mandago was appointed to chair the campaigns team in the Rift Valley region.