President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has launched an onslaught against IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati over his push for a radical surgery at the secretariat. This has has exposed what appears to be a Jubilee scheme to protect the Ezra Chiloba-led secretariat from far-reaching changes. These changes are imperative ahead of the presidential rerun on October 17. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga is pushing for a major purge. He wants Chiloba and some top electoral chiefs to be sacked. However, the sustained pressure by NASA to have the IEBC secretariat reconstituted has opened a fresh battleground. Jubilee has laughed off the move as untenable, 34 days to the poll. In backing the status quo, Uhuru and Jubilee honchos have maintained the time for preparing for a new election is limited, despite significant protests by NASA and the civil society. On the other hand, Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has unleashed a stinging attack against Chebukati, warning him against making unilateral decisions. On Sunday night, the DP accused Chebukati of working in cahoots with NASA elements to sabotage the election. He said Chebukati has been “holding night meetings” with NASA leaders to plot Jubilee’s downfall. “We are aware of the meetings he has been holding with our competitors,” said the DP on Citizen TV. Ruto said the memo written by Chebukati to the CEO Chiloba showcased a choreographed plan to derail the poll. But Chebukati has told off the DP and told him to make public the nature of the meetings and venues. He termed Ruto’s sentiments as false, reckless and baseless, adding that such talks will not subvert his mission of ensuring the forthcoming poll is credible. NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula told off Ruto saying the remarks are unjustified and uncalled for. “Bwana Ruto, your attacks on Chebukati are unjustified and uncalled for. You have no capacity to throw the first stone, leave alone any stone,” the Bungoma Senator said via Twitter on Sunday. “Jubilee is attacking Chebukati to shield the secretariat,” Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said in a phone interview. On Tuesday, September 5 the Chairman appointed a new project team to manage the polls and promised to directly supervise a new head of ICT during the October 17 presidential poll. Chiloba and ICT director James Muhati have been left out.