At least two to eight per cent of jobs in the manufacturing sector will be lost in the next few years on the back of adoption of new technologies, a World Bank report shows. The report points out smart automation, advanced robotics and 3-D printing among the top innovations that will replace human labour in the country. “Technology and globalization are changing how manufacturing contributes to development. We will need to embrace this change rather than fear it,” World Bank Group’s senior director for Trade & Competitiveness Annabel Gonzalez said. However, while agreeing that new technology advancement will lead to job losses, the Kenya Association of Manufactures argues that development will help redefine work and skills especially within the context of industry. “Herein in lies massive opportunities for the workforce and a chance to position ourselves ahead of the curve, as a country, in readiness for the disruption,” the associations’ chairperson Flora Mutahi said. Her position is echoed by the report which states that innovation is a wake-up call to policymakers to adjust their approach to spurring job creation in manufacturing and readying workers for the jobs of the future. In her remarks, Mutahi attributed increased unemployment to lack of competent skills that enable firms to adopt fast-changing transformations at workplaces and not necessarily due to lack of demand. The attribution follows a 2017 Executive Briefing on The Future of Jobs and Skills in Africa which indicates that 30 per cent of employers in Kenya are citing inadequately skilled workforce as a major constraint to business expansion. The brief indicates that Kenya only captures 58 per cent of its full human capital potential compared to countries such as Ghana at 64 per cent and South Africa at 63 per cent. To be well prepared for the future, the World Bank report has recommended that countries seeking to bolster their manufacturing sectors should look for new contracting relationships that embrace new technologies, give workers new sets of skills and promote connectedness to emphasize openness to trade in goods, including raw materials and components.  While embracing the fourth industrial revolution, the United Nations Women country director Zebib Kavuma noted that closing the wage gap, skills gap and access to global markets for local women-owned companies will also help boost the growth of the manufacturing sector and the entire economy. Kavuma was speaking during the third Women in Manufacturing event hosted by the manufacturers lobby group on Tuesday this week.