The national government has received Sh40 billion less in actual revenues in the last two months of this financial year, the Treasury has revealed. Actual receipts for the period between July 1 and 31st August 2017 hit Sh251 billion, down from Sh291.8 billion recorded over a similar period last year. While data from the National Treasury shows total tax income has grown by Sh9 billion to reach Sh187 billion (up from Sh178 billion), non-tax income has dropped to Sh1.9 billion, down from Sh3 billion last year. Net domestic borrowing has also fallen to Sh28 billion, Sh5 billion less than the Sh33 billion recorded over a similar period last year. The fresh information also paints a picture of a struggling government which started with an opening balance of Sh30.9 billion during the start of the financial year in July 1, 2017, a figure way below the Sh59.8 billion that was outstanding in the government accounts over a similar period in 2016. The report, posted on the Kenya Gazette, showed the government has not taken any commercial loan so far while it had applied for a Sh10 billion loan over a similar period last year. The state is targeting Sh200 billion in commercial loans this financial year. According to the data, the government has also missed Sh6.4 billion in unspent balances or recoveries in the present accounting period, hitting the revenue target further. On the expenditure front, the government confirmed that no funds have been released to the county governments because the schedule of disbursement has not been approved by the Senate as yet. “Accordingly, the National Treasury advanced a total of KSh 17,901,075,558 to some county governments to enable them to pay salaries and provide essential services,” an explanation by Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said. Over the same period, security related recurrent expenditures have been boosted by Sh9.5 billion, signifying the government’s commitment to enhance security during the electioneering period. The Ministry of Defence has been allocated Sh3.7 billion more, that of Interior an additional Sh3.4 billion and the National Intelligence Service given a top-up of Sh2.4 billion. Notably too, the State Department of Basic Education has been allocated an additional Sh6.3 billion as the government moves to implement free primary education in full, including scrapping of national exams fees. The allocation to the State Department of University Education has been doubled from Sh6.2 billion to Sh13.6 billion as more students are given access to Higher Education Loans Board money. 