Harambee Stars Africa Nations Championships side take on Morocco in their final friendly match as they complete their tour of North Africa today. Having played to a 1-1 draw against Mauritania over the weekend, Stars - who are under Musa Otieno - will have to put a brave fight to stop the Atlas Lions, who thrashed Mali 6-0 in their World Cup qualifier on Friday.Statistics for the previous encounters between the two sides favor the North Africans with their last friendly match in October 2014 ending in a 3-0 win.It will be remembered that the same country inflicted a heavy 5-1 defeat on the Kenyans during the 2006 World Cup qualifiers. Under a double AFCON winning coach Herve Renard, Morocco are expected to field an inexperienced squad to face Stars as their first choice regulars may be exempted from the clash in readiness for their World Cup qualifier return leg match against Mali later this week.Harambee Stars may not make major amendments to the squad which played against Mauritania as the first choice players impressed and dominated the match before conceding a penalty in the final 10 minutes. Boniface Oluoch is expected to start in between the sticks as well as skipper the youthful Kenyan side. However, the Gor Mahia custodian may pave way for the fast-rising Farouk Sikhal of Posta Rangers to make his international debut. The four-man defence line-up comprising of Wesley Onguso, Dennis Sikhayi, Pascal Ogweno and Harun Shakava is expected to shield and deal with the fast opponents who have always had easy times against Kenya.Ernest Wendo and Patillah Omotto are expected to take the holding midfielders&rsquo; roles with Jackson Macharia and Boniface Omondi manning the flanks. Kepha Aswani and Masoud Juma may be used as the striking pair.Frank Ouna, the team&rsquo;s assistant coach expressed his confidence with the boys.&ldquo;We have only just began our preparations and what I have seen gives me confidence. Half of the players we expect to use in CHAN were with the senior Harambee Stars squad in Mozambique while several others from Ulinzi Stars did not make the trip with the squad due to their military games commitments. On the balance of that, I think we are progressing,&rdquo; said Ouna.Morocoo are ranked 60th globally while Kenya are ranked 82nd. Continentally, the hosts are 11th while Stars are 18th.