Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has defended his push for banning matatus in the Central Business District. Sonko said on Friday passenger service vehicles will no longer have access to the Nairobi city centre from September 20. He also revoked all gazette notices and letters that allocated pick-up and drop-off points in the CBD. Read: Sonko bans PSVs from Nairobi CBD, changes from September 20 But on Sunday through his Facebook account, Sonko asked Kenyans to focus on the final outcome. "Let's stop politicizing the decongestion in Nairobi. This is just a pilot project and all school going children and people going to work will be dropped in the CBD without affecting the flow of traffic," he said. Sonko said as a temporary measure, there shall be strictly no double parking, no obstruction, no unnecessary U-turns, no blocking of business premises as we they look for permanent solutions. He said permanent solutions will include speedy construction of storeyed parkings and expansion of roads to include special lanes of buses. "... introduction of new circular routes from Eastlands, Southlands, Westlands, Thika road to important areas like KNH, Karen, SGR station in Syokimau and Mlolongo without entering the CBD," he said. Sonko also said the county will construct underpasses noting that they shall work closely with saccos to effect the same. "We shall work closely with the affected sacco staff, NTSA, traffic police, business community and residents associations," the Governor added. Matatu owners dismissed the gazette notice blocking PSVs from accessing the CBD. Association chair Simon Kimutai told the Star that Sonko did not consult them on the matter and they will not abide by it. "This ban is uncalled for and very unreasonable. It is not possible and we shall not move even an inch unless we are consulted," he said. More on this: Matatu owners dismiss CBD ban, say they were not consulted Also read: Ensure cartels don't exploit matatus CBD ban, Boniface Mwangi tells Sonko