A dozen Jubilee politicians dominated a church service on Sunday when they told off NASA and condemned the Supreme Court for nullifying President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory. Some of them spoke during a church service at St Martyrs of Uganda Catholic Church in Gatundu town. Many clerics have deplored the blatant use of church services to politick, saying churches are for prayer, not campaigning. On Sunday they told NASA that Kenyans will not be intimidated by their threats about no-election. They accused the opposition of failing to respect the will of the people after the August 8 election. The politicians also accused the Supreme Court of subverting the will of the people by nullifying Kenyatta’s win. The apex court ruled 4-2 in favour of NASA and said the General Election was marred by enormous irregularities and illegalities. They included Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Uasin Gishu woman representative Gladys Shollei, Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi, former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba, Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai and former Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda. The others were Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai, former Taita Taveta woman representative Joyce Lay and Thika MP Patrick Wainana, Lang’ata MP Nickson Korir and Kiambu assembly speaker Steve Ndicho. The politicians said they will cross the country and urge Kenyans to vote for Kenyatta during the presidential rerun on October 26. Kuria said reelecting Uhuru will be the best birthday present Kenyans can give him. October 26 is his birthday. “History will forever judge Chief Justice David Maraga and his team. How on earth did they overturn the supreme will of Kenyans? It’s now clear from our evidence that these judges orchestrated a coup to help NASA leader Raila Odinga get to power,” the Gatundu South MP said. Shollei accused the opposition of planning a judicial coup long before the election by pushing for removal of “independent-minded” judges like Justice Philip Tunoi, Justice Kalpana Rawal and she herself as the Judiciary Registrar. Elachi asked, “How many institutions and people will you kill as you try to get power through the backdoor, Mr former Prime Minister?” Namwamba said Raila is afraid of the repeat presidential polls, because he is losing ground every day. He said politicians who supported the NASA chief have joined Jubilee. He said former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, former Meru Governor Peter Munya and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar ditched NASA because Raila is a “perennial loser”. Sakuda asked Raila to declare his stand and say whether NASA is ready for the repeat polls. Nyamai said, “If Raila really loved Kenyans, he ought to have fought for justice, not chaos. 