I rounded off my Europe travel
chronicles by visiting friends in the south of Germany. Although this
was not my first visit to Germany, my experience in the South is so much unlike
what I experienced before. I previously lived in Hamburg a few years ago. The
city is at the topmost part of Germany and is very metropolitan. Unlike the
North, the South is much more dispersed, green and very relaxed. The state of
Baden-Württemberg is located in the southwest of Germany and its capital is
Stuttgart. Stuttgart is a vibrant metropolitan city with an old history. Most
of the city lies in the valley where the Neckar River flows. Stuttgart is not as big of
a city compared to other metropolitan cities in Germany. The university is
located a few kilometres outside the city centre. The city centre has one big
square right in the middle of the main street. The square, called Schlossplatz, is quite breathtaking and is the front yard of the main municipal building. The Old
Castle is also located on the same street. The castle was built in the 10th Century and is currently used as museum that houses most of Stuttgart’s
history. The castle’s cathedral still functions as a church to date.  But the most interesting
thing about Stuttgart I find is that it’s not only the home of the first
Mercedes-Benz but also the home of the first-ever motor car, which
incidentally was a Benz. The car is on display in the Mercedes-Benz museum in
Stuttgart. The museum, located on 100 Mercedes Street, is not the only main
attraction on that street. The Mercedes Arena, the ‘rival’ Porsche Museum and
Arena, are located in the same area as well. Being that it was a quick day trip
to the city, I could only visit one of these great attractions. Tough choice. I
ended up settling for a visit to the Mercedes-Benz Museum, and it was worth it.  The tickets into the
museum vary according to age, profession and time. The evening ticket — from
4:30 pm — costs 5 Euros, unlike the day ticket, which costs 10 Euros. Students and senior citizens also have a
reduced price. Young people under the age of 14 get in free! The Museum’s
building is in itself a spectacle. The design is said to reminisce the shape of
a Wankel engine. Inside the museum, guests are handed audio devices that offer a
guided tour. The elevator takes guests from the ground level to the topmost
level, making roaring engine sounds. The highest level houses the
first-ever engines and motor cars designed by none other than founder Karl Benz.
On the walls are pictures and documents that narrate world history, of course
including the stories of Benz and future partner Daimler. Patents and designs
of the cars and engines, as well as the partnership agreements, are also on
display.  Every level of the Museum
tells the story of that era according to the car manufactured. For instance, the
first level tells the story of the first-ever motor car, and by the time you get
to the ground level, you find the latest Mercedes-Benz on display, in this case, the 2017 Mercedes-AMG SLC 43 Roadster. On the ground level, there is a
restaurant where guests can sit and relax after the approximately two-hour tour. In
my opinion, the visit to Stuttgart will be incomplete without visiting the
museum.  An hour's train ride out of Stuttgart is the
small university town of Tübingen. The town also borders the Necker river and
provides such a picturesque background to the hilly green town. The university
is the main attraction, and the town's vibrancy is
provided by the students moving about. The university is spread out
all over the town, and what I found most interesting is that some of the oldest
buildings — like castles — have been renovated to serve as departments
of the university. Thereby, preserving the exterior architecture, renovating and
using the interior so that the buildings don’t succumb to ruin.  Other points of attraction
in Tübingen include a small island in the middle of Neckar river that is
formed by a brief split of the river into two streams before joining up again.
The island is accessible by descending a short flight of stairs from the main
bridge (you don’t have to use a boat!). Facing the island is a round-like tower
that was home to German poet Friedrich Hölderlin. The tower has been turned into
a museum, which is unfortunately closed for renovation until next year. The town’s
botanical gardens are also a must-visit!