When Cotu deputy secretary general Benson Okwaro came to Nairobi in 1966, all systems were working perfectly. Security was good. He knew his caring neighbours, and some neighbourhoods, such as Eastlands, were actually safe. “The bus system was very organised as at the time, we only had the Kenya Bus Service,” Okwaro, 68, says. Though life was easy and tough at the same time, there was still something to celebrate. Okwaro lived with his Uncle at Bahati estate before moving out to Mbotela when he got his first job. He says one was sure of getting a vehicle should you miss one, as vehicles were streaming in after some time. “We used to have a bus moving from Jerusalem-Bahati-Shauri Moyo-Burma Market-Majengo-Ziwani-Kariokor-Town,” he said, adding that buses then did not have to wait like today. Okwaro says double decker buses found in developed countries were also there. He said conductors then were very organised and made sure one was treated well and given a ticket. “Fare then was between 50 cents and 70 cents, but matatus ( 14 seaters) charged 30 cents when they were introduced,” he says. Okwaro said the now-defunct city council and Kenya Bus Services used to manage the buses, which ensured efficiency. He said during his time, he never witnessed crimes such as mugging, as people used to dance in clubs up to the dead of the night and go home without fear. NO LONGER AT EASE Fast-forward to 2017. Okwaro cannot comprehend what is happening. Insecurity is the norm in some neighbourhoods and public service vehicles have turned unruly and chaotic, all in a place once called “the green city in the sun”. Every morning, over 1.5 million city residents pack into thousands of matatus fighting for space in the CBD with 3 million residents in cars. Due to a lack of parking spaces for PSVs in the CBD, informal stages have exploded, often secured by cartels. As a result, more than Sh50 million is lost daily due to traffic jams. Nairobi residents spend most of their time in traffic snarl-ups. Experts are raising the red flag, warning that the city is heading into a serious gridlock should swift action not be taken. By 2030, Nairobi’s population is projected to hit 10 million.  Okwaro says the move by Governor Mike Sonko to ban matatus from the city needs both short- and long-term plans. He said matatus should not be allowed to park in town and they should operate in a circular manner. A World Bank report released in February lists Nairobi among African cities lacking formal, planned housing connected to jobs and services. The report, titled “Africa’s cities opening doors to the world”, says three distinct characteristics constrain economic development and stifle growth: they are overcrowded, disconnected and costly. According to Traffic Index 2017 Mid-Year by Numbeo, Nairobi’s traffic was ranked the 14th worst in the world, with commuters spending an average of 56 minutes in the snarl-up. Numbeo ranks Kolkata, India, as the city whose traffic is worst, as commuters spend 65 minutes on average in traffic snarl-ups. In Vienna, Austria, commuters spend on average 25 minutes in traffic. The Numbeo Index is composed of time consumed in traffic due to commuting to work, estimation of time consumption dissatisfaction, carbon dioxide consumption estimation in traffic and overall inefficiencies in the traffic system. MOST STRESSFUL CITY Another study conducted by UK-based dry cleaning and laundry service Zipjet lists Nairobi as the most stressful city to live in. The study listed the world’s most and least stressful cities of 2017. According to the study, Nairobi ranked 113, indicating a higher level of stress, with traffic remaining as one of the worst. Stress-free cities, according to the Zipjet report, are Stuttgart, Hanover, Munich and Hamburg, all located in Germany. The report considered factors such as traffic levels, infrastructure, pollution levels, finance, citizens’ well-being, public transport, and percentage of green spaces, debt levels, physical and mental health, and the financial status of citizens. UN-Habitat, in a 2015 report, says most urban areas in Kenya lack sound plans to direct their growth. The report, Capacity Building for County Governments, calls for the need to prioritise urban planning. “To enhance the economic productivity of urban spaces, urban development plans must have a financing strategy for infrastructure, services, etc., and implementation must enhance municipal revenues and local economic development,” the report said. This state of affairs in giving sleepless nights to not only city planners but also Sonko. BUS RAPID TRANSIT On September 15, Sonko ordered that PSVs will be banned from the city centre, a move that was vehemently opposed by operators. Sonko suspended the ban by a month after pressure from the operators. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai said there should have been consultations. “We need an organised CBD, as even us, we lose due to congestion in terms of man hours, consumption, among others,” he said. Kimutai said although Sonko might have meant well, he ought to have considered several factors. For one, he should have ensured there is adequate security to avoid crimes such as mugging. Kimutai said there are already plans to have high-capacity Bus Rapid Transit operating in a circular manner. “Infrastructure and acquisition of units are still pending, but we can have dedicated lanes to be used by matatus in the meantime, where they will be timed and give few minutes as they do not have to stop,” he said.  Kenya’s piloting of BRT has been going on for some time. However, the BRT piloting has been sharing roads with other road users, unlike in Dar es Salaam, where they have dedicated lanes. Transport in Dar es Salaam, whose roads are narrow has been changed by BRT, which locals call “Mwenda Kazi”. Some 140 buses fitted with ICT ply different city routes. This means that buses are visible in real time, a move that enhances route planning and scheduling. Motorists Association of Kenya chairman Peter Murima said that public transport has “undoubtedly been the most chaotic” of the city’s systems. “This is the way the subsector has been operating — haphazard picking of commuters and dangerous driving, among other faults,” he said. Murima cites Moi Avenue, Tom Mboya, Race Course, Haile Selassie and Kenyatta Avenue as among the major streets that have been turned into one big bus station. Along these streets, long lines of bumper-to-bumper matatus line up to pick passengers for hours, hooting continuously with impunity. Murima said the subsector has been given a bad image by mugging, pickpocketing and sound pollution, including loud exhausts, blaring horns and touts shouting to compete for the few commuters (against so many vehicles). He said many private car owners prefer bringing their vehicles into the CBD, as matatus do not meet the criteria of decent public transport. From deafening loud music, sanitation, lack of ventilation, dangerous driving, crew’s lack of customer care and road bullying, this mess is what makes many prefer to drive to work, Murima said. SHUTTLE BUS SERVICE City planner Lawrence Esho agrees with Murima. According to Esho, the behaviour of matatu crews is “irredeemable”, and this remains the main reason many residents use private cars. “Their behaviour and manners on the road are extremely bad. This makes residents see them negatively,” he said. Esho said he is convinced disciplining the matatu operators is impossible. “If you want a good policy on public transport, you should prevent private cars from coming to town, not public ones,” Esho said. Esho urged the governor to consult the experts before making any move. Murima blamed saccos, companies and operators for deliberately failing to take the opportunity given by the government to self-regulate. He said the directive requiring matatus to stop at authorised terminuses could be a positive step that could lure private motorists to use public transport. Murima said that with larger open streets free of private cars, a special CBD shuttle bus service can be introduced, with dedicated high-occupancy bus systems to serve roads not covered under the gazette notice. Taxi cabs, on the other hand, will be able to do a circuit across the CBD. Murima said providing pick-up and drop-off vehicles is a step in the right direction that has already been taken up by other cities, such as Dar es Salaam, Dakar, Addis Ababa, Johannesburg and Cape Town. County planners association of Kenya chairman Mairura Omwenga said the city must have a comprehensive plan before banning matatus from town. “Terminals should be planned and developed. There should also be an appropriate way of bringing passengers from the terminals to the CBD,” he said. Omwenga said all stakeholders must be involved, as the law mandates. He said all efforts to de-congest the CBD must be informed by a point of knowledge, as previous attempts, such as doing away with roundabouts, failed.