Veteran politician Jackson Kibor’s divorce case will finally be determined by a court in Eldoret on October 6. Kibor wants to end his 51-year marriage to Josephine over claims of desertion, cruelty and interference with his land. Read: Politician Jackson Kibor files divorce case to end 51-year marriage Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa set the date for a ruling after Kibor and Josphine's lawyers gave the court their final written submissions. “I love my husband and I don’t know why he wants to divorce me”, Josphine
has insisted in court papers, and wants the court to throw out the case. While testifying in court, the politician cum businessman claimed the woman travelled to Canada on several occasions without his permission, leaving their animals to die on their 800-acre farm at Kipkabus. But Josephine denied the allegations saying she always asked her husband if she could visit their daughter in Canada and seek medication while there. She gave the court photographs of the family at joint meetings saying
they had been happy. Josphine claimed their problems started when Kibor
married his fourth wife Yunita. She said he then became interested in selling part of the Kipkabus land but she placed a caveat on it to stop this. But Kibor said: “When I married her she did not come with land so it should not be her business.
I have said she is bad and I do not need her anymore. All I want is a quick
divorce so I can move on." More on this: Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine Also read: Kibor, 86, wants quickie divorce from his second wife of 51 years Kibor is being represented by lawyer Waziri Omollo while Josphine’s lawyer is Amos
Magut. In the same court on Monday, Kibor’s daughter
Loise Kibor was charged with a criminal offense. Loyce Kibor, who was also a Jubilee aspirant for Uasin Gishu woman representative, was charged with obtaining money by false pretenses. Loyce allegedly defrauded businessman Hosea Tenai of Sh1,685,000 while pretending she could import a car for him.  It is said she committed the offence between April 16 and June 8. The woman was arrested and arraigned after failing to honour
summons twice, claiming she had been unwell. She is Josephine's daughter and a witness in the divorce case. But during a hearing of the divorce case earlier this year, Kibor said he was not sure she is his daughter and that only a DNA test could confirm this. Loyce gave her testimony in the divorce case through a written submission in
which she defended her mother saying she had been committed to hermarriage. 