Rowdy youths yesterday engaged police in running battles in Kisumu town as they claimed people have been moving around buying IDs. The county is a NASA stronghold.Trouble started when the youths stormed a meeting at a hotel in Kisumu town convened by a group of women in Nyanza. The youths pulled down a hotel wall and broke windows, causing the police to launch into action. They lobbed teargas canisters at the youths. The youths claimed the women went to sell their ID cards to Jubilee agents. The youths claimed they had received information IDs were being scanned at the Jumuia Hotel - the meeting venue. The meeting organised by the Inter-religious Council of Kenya brought together women from five counties in the region. They are Kisumu,  Siaya,  Homa Bay Migori and Kisii. Some women complained they were harassed and beaten by the youths. phones stolen They also claimed their personal belongings, including bags, phones and laptops were stolen from the conference hall. Deliverance Church’s Pastor Alice Owuor  said she was roughed up. “The fracas was uncalled for because the main aim of the meeting was to strategise how to advocate peace ahead of the repeat presidential election,” she said. Owour said her bag, money and Bible were stolen. “The irate youths even attempted to  rape a number of us,” she said. Owuor said the youths locked the door and beat everyone, including the old and pregnant. Some were lucky to escape through the window. One woman said IDs were only presented for verification. “We checked in on Tuesday and waited for Wednesday to start the meeting,” she said. Bishop Simon Achar, the NCCK chairman in Nyanza, as well as Kisumu Israel Nineveh Church Bishop Betty Onyango condemned the attack, adding it paints the region in a bad light. Achar urged the police to investigate, adding the incident was unacceptable and regrettable. He dismissed the allegations the women had gone to sell their IDs to Jubilee agents. Police lorries came to the women’s rescue and the Red Cross helped others get to hospital. Hotel manager Emanuel Waya said he was beaten and his phone was stolen as he tried to calm the youths. He said the youths brought down the fence and vandalised five vehicles. Waya said about Sh200,000 was stolen and hotel property destroyed. “For now, we can talk of about Sh1 million damage caused,” he said. Waya said the youths also entered the kitchen and stole utensils. He thanked the police for their speedy response. Waya said clients are safe. Four were injured and taken to hospital.