The United Nations General Assembly is always an event to look forward to. It is the only principal organ of the United Nations where all member states have an equal voice. It is the premier forum for debate and global policymaking. Seventy-two years later, the UN is still our most significant platform for deliberately striving for a common purpose, a universal quest for peace and a commitment to respectful stewardship of our fragile planet. The focus of the General Debate of the 72nd UNGA was ‘Focusing on People: Striving for Peace and a Decent Life for All on a Sustainable Planet’. But as you know, this is not what the gathering will be remembered for. The 72nd UNGA will be remembered as US President Donald Trump’s debut on this global stage. Trump, to his credit, called for bold reforms to make the United Nations a more effective and greater force for peace and harmony in the world. Trump was also critical of the fact that the UN Human Rights Council, which comprises 47 member countries, includes countries with deplorable human rights records. As was expected, Trump described the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran as the “worst and most one-sided transaction”, which he is determined to pull the US out of. It is instructive to note that United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution endorsing the Iran nuclear deal under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, contributing to building confidence in the peaceful intentions of Iran’s nuclear programme. But Trump’s debut on the premier world stage will also be remembered for name-calling. He referred to North Korea leader Kim Jung-un as ‘Rocket Man’ and threatened to totally destroy the country. On Venezuela, Trump asserted that a corrupt dictatorship under President Nicolas Maduro had turned a wealthy country into an economically impoverished “rogue state whose chief exports were violence, bloodshed and chaos”. Trump urged the UN to prepare to do more to address the Venezuela crisis. ,,As you would expect, there was robust reaction to Trump’s speech. Kim Jung-un called Trump a dotard, which means senile or weak-minded elderly person. Robert Mugabe did not fail to find choice words for Trump. He called him a “giant gold Goliath” and asked Trump to blow his trumpet for peace. Then came this. “I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries will always, and should always put your country first.” You can bet Vladimir Putin and China’s Xi Jinping strongly approved this part of Trump’s speech. This statement is perhaps the clearest expression of Trump’s insular and narrow conception of a dynamic and intensely connected world. It runs counter to the ideals and goals of the UN. The United Nations is about global collective action. We cannot act unilaterally and we must always strive for global consensus, common purpose and collective action. As the saying goes, “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” Alex
O Awiti is the director of the East Africa Institute at Aga Khan University