The Moi Girls’ High School fire incident that left nine students dead is still a topic of discussion on social media. Many have criticised the arson while others, the likes of Catherine Njeri, have come out to the main suspect’s defence. The parents of the arson suspect spoke to the Star newspaper yesterday, claiming that their daughter was innocent. “My child was the first person who said the fire started in her bed. She volunteered the information. How it was turned around that she is alleged to have committed the attack is puzzling. But eventually, the truth will come out,” the father said. The mother of the 14-year-old girl ‘exposed’ what’s going on in the school, claiming that her daughter was being targeted because she refused to become a lesbian. “She once talked about girls coming to her bed wearing masks and touching her. They would tell her they want to have a relationship with her and she would refuse. Sometimes she would get notes being slipped into her bed written ‘I love you’,” the mother said. Sauti Sol’s vocalist Bien Baraza has revealed how he was taken to boarding school at the age of 10, something he hated. According to Baraza, taking away your child or children to a boarding school creates a huge gap between the parent and the child, and in most cases, such children end up growing up into ‘bad people’. “I went to boarding school in class 5. I was 10 years old. I know often children don’t know what they want, but I was pretty sure I hated being there. At the time, my parents thought boarding schools were an end-goal to good results and grooming responsible citizens. Even during the holidays, they left for work and came back when I was asleep. “Now I’m all grown up and I realise how much it robbed me of a relationship with my parents. Especially my dad, because I was always a mama’s boy. He’s always surprised by some of my habits and abilities. I bet some of the parents of the kids involved in high school arson incidents are often surprised by their kids. But if you’re only allowed to see them once in three months and sporadically during the holidays, that’s the result,” Bien said. He added, “At a time when you need to be with them the most, you leave it to a teacher and peer pressure to raise them for you. I’m not saying kids in day schools are less likely to be involved in some crazy stuff, but at least you can see them and nip the craziness in the bud before it gets out of hand. I am a full anti-boarding activist.”