Fresh presidential election, free secondary school
education and security are the major beneficiaries in the new Supplementary
Budget Estimates. The National Treasury has told MPs to approve the cash. In the estimates, tabled yesterday in
the National Assembly, the fresh presidential election slated for October 26 get Sh9.9 billion. Free secondary
education
will get Sh24.8 billion. Enhancement of security operations will get Sh2.6
billion. The Sh9.9 billion for the repeat poll is short of
Sh2.1 billion that the IEBC had
initially requested from the Treasury. The IEBC wanted to be allocated Sh12 billion to cater
for preparation and conducting the election. Treasury CS Henry Rotich yesterday said they have
been forced to make changes in the 2017-18 budget due to what he termed
“unforeseen challenges with huge financial implications”. “These include, but not limited to prolonged drought,
insecurity, implementation of agreed CBAs, a repeat of the presidential election
and shortfall in revenue collection occasioned by prevailing business environment,” the CS said. Rotich also told the MPs the economy has not generated
new resources to finance the emerging needs, hence, the decision to reorganise
the planned expenditures. Kenya's election is among the most expensive
globally. In the last election, the IEBC spent Sh42 billion,
but it was still indicted by the Supreme Court for having failed, neglected or
refused to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the
dictates of the Constitution. The Commission, which is fighting with time to
prepare for the polls, will now have to adjust its budget to fit into the
latest, Budget which parliamentarians are expected to debate and approve. The proposed IEBC budget has listed enhancement of
the electoral technology, polling officials’ wages, election materials and transport as necessities that will consume the bulk of the
cash. The electoral agency has set aside Sh1.49 billion
for what it terms as enhancement of technology, Sh2.39 billion for polling
officials’ wages, and Sh1.9 billion for transport at the county levels. A total of Sh1.3 billion would be spent on acquisition of
election materials, including ballot papers, Sh2.9 billion on training of
polling officials and hire of equipment during training, while Sh214 million
have been earmarked as tallying centre expenses. Last week on Friday, the Cabinet chaired by President
Uhuru Kenyatta approved Sh25 billion to carter for free secondary education
starting January next year. Free secondary education was one of Jubilee’s
campaign pillars. According to the government, close to one million students are
expected to join form one in public schools next year. Rotich said the overall cumulative changes to be
made in the Supplementary Estimates amounts to Sh22.3 billion, representing 0.8
per cent of the original budget. “Taking into the account there are cases where
the changes are more than 10 per cent in individual programmes, we are
requesting for special approval of the expenditures, which are beyond this
threshold,” he said.  