Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho yesterday stormed the Nyali police station to demand the immediate release of seven county inspectorate officers. It is alleged the county askaris had gone to stop the illegal construction of a perimeter wall on a 30-metre beach access road in Nyali. That’s when they were arrested. Joho said the county askaris were acting on direct orders from their seniors in the Mombasa government to stop the illegal construction. He told the press that senior police officers in the county have been supervising illegal construction of walls in the region. “They [county askaris] were arrested and detained in this police station on orders from above. Since when did police officers start handling land disputes?” Joho said. public property He said the National Land Commission, in a letter dated August 12 last year, ruled that the land in contention is a public beach access road. “There is communication from the National Land Commission informing us that this land was illegally grabbed, and was meant for public use as an access to the beach,” the county boss said. “Our officers were simply enforcing the orders of ensuring the land is protected.” The NLC letter seen by the Star was signed by chairman Muhammad Swazuri. It was written to Dina Management Limited — the entity claiming ownership of plot MN/1/6063 — and copied to the Mombasa governor, the county commissioner, county secretary, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Kenya Maritime Authority and the Director of Survey at Ministry of Lands. “This is, therefore, to notify you to show cause why you should not vacate the property MN/1/6053 within a period of three months from the date of this letter,” the letter reads. Yesterday, Joho demanded to know why his officers had been arrested and detained at the police station for several hours without being taken to court. “It’s now about 11am. My enforcement officers are detained at this police station. Why have they not taken them to court?” he said. The ODM deputy party leader said the police officers in the region have a tendency to supervise illegal construction acting “on orders from the above” — and that is not right. “I’ll move to court to seek interpretation of the law on the mandate of the county government. Police cannot forcefully take our mandate. They cannot simply try to stop our officers from enforcing their orders,” he said. County police commander Peterson Maelo said the officers were called by the owner of Nyali Holiday Resort who said some individuals were demolishing his property. “The police officers arrived at the scene and found the county inspectorate. They were taken to Nyali police to record statements. They were released after recording their statements,” he said. Maelo said the report will be taken to the Director of Public Prosecutions. crackdown on grabbing The incident comes days after the county cracked down on la and grabbing syndicate said to have illegally acquired multimillion-shilling plots. The county has unearthed cases of land said to have been grabbed in the 1990s. Several suspects are already facing probes, after being accused of collusion with ministry of Land officials. Only two weeks ago Abdiweli Diriye Santuri and his brother Ibrahim Diriye Santuri faced several charges of defrauding the county of Sh153 million land in deals dating back to 1998. This is not the first time Joho has been in a confrontation with police over construction of walls on county property. In October last year, he stopped construction of a perimeter wall around a parcel owned by the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation at VOK area in Nyali constituency. Both the county government and the KBC claim ownership of the 22 acres.. Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa has threatened to arrest Joho, but it never happened. In 2015, the Mombasa county government tried in vain to stop construction of a wall around five acres in Dunga Unuse in Changamwe constituency. More than 300 families living on that land, said to be owned by Westlands Properties, were evicted on the watch of dozens of Administration Police, as workers built the wall. Joho yesterday said he would not allow police to continue being used by influential individuals to grab land. “You cannot construct anything in Mombasa without a legal permit from the county. “Police officers should stop being used to oversee land grabbing,” he said. The county chief is no stranger to controversy. He has also clashed with the national government over development projects and wants credit given where it’s due. Many analysts attribute his rise to stardom to his courage to face the state and powerful people. Joho says he is out to protect residents’ interests and is ready to do everything to ensure the county gets what it deserves.