For a long time, Maize had taken over traditional crops like sorghum and millet. When the rains failed late 2016, maize farmers were the most affected and many of them are yet to recover. According to the Kenyan Government at least 1.3 million Kenyans were affected by drought. This and many other factors have influenced the move back to drought resistant crops. According to research done by International Crops Research Institute for the semi-arid tropics, farmers who planted maize during the drought season are expecting lower yields as compared to those who planted drought-tolerant crops. In a one-hectare maize farm, for instance, farmers are expecting one, 90 Kg bag of maize, whereas from a one-hectare farm of sorghum, they are expecting more than eight 90 Kg bags of sorghum.Sorghum is the fifth most important grain crop after maize, wheat, rice and barley, but this is quickly changing as demand on sorghum increases. Farmers from various parts of the country such as Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu and Tharaka Nithi County have ventured into sorghum farming to improve their livelihood and boost the region&rsquo;s economic growth. Barley was Kenya Breweries Limited's raw material of choice for the longest period and had through its subsidiary the East Africa Malting Limited, build a solid supply chain over the years. This however changed in 2009 when the company decided to innovate and change to include the use of sorghum as raw material in the brewing process. Sorghum provided a cheaper source for raw materials, and as part of its social corporate responsibility, they developed a value chain that helped meet the promise of food security, but also revenue generation for farmers.To promote drought-tolerant crops, farmers are continuously trained on good agricultural practices, post-harvest handling and value addition, and have been provided with quality seed of improved varieties. In July this year, East African Malting Limited a subsidiary of East African Breweries Limited launched a new sorghum variety, which delivers up to 15 per cent higher yields and is more resilient to the ever-changing weather conditions. The new variety, which is resistant to pests, birds, drought and root lodging during heavy rains, has a high production and is easy to harvest with a special combine harvester. The EAML general manager, Lawrence Maina revealed that commercial production of the seed had already began. &ldquo;With the demand of Senator Keg soaring, our plan is to recruit more farmers, in order to ensure that our customers continue enjoying Senator keg uninterrupted. Our plan is to increase the current sorghum production from 30,000 tonnes to 40,000 tonnes by 2018,&rdquo; Mr. Maina explained.With Kenya Breweries Limited now sourcing 80 per cent of their sorghum locally, farmers have a ready market and an opportunity to make good returns. Essential for the production of Senator Keg, sorghum farmers are supported by an solid value chain comprising of farmers, research institutes, seed companies, financial institutions, fertilizer providers as well as sector service providers. KBL has contracted over 30,000 farmers. At the same time, KBL is providing a sustainable income to over 17,000 Senator Keg retailers and over 100 Senator Keg distributors. Sorghum can withstand dry conditions (600mm annual rainfall) and remain green at very low moisture level. It can do well in very poor soils and most varieties of sorghum produce much more forage than maize. The lower leaves of sorghum do not dry as the plant matures, they remain green which reduce the cost of replanting, land preparation, seeds and time.Sorghum is unique due to its tolerance to drought, water logging and Saline-alkali infertile soils and high temperature and has the potential of becoming a food security crop in Kenya. Kenya Breweries Limited, through the Jilishe kisha Uuze (grow, feed and sell) campaign, also encourages farmers to grow sorghum for food and sell the surplus for commercial use.