Kenya Breweries Limited has expanded its end-to-end capacity for the
production and distribution of Senator to meet existing and emerging demand
for the low-end beer brand. In a short-term plan to boost
capacity, KBL has unveiled newly-installed rackers in its Ruaraka plant following
a Sh800 million project expected to increase its Senator production by 20 percent. KBL managing director Jane
Karuku said the move is among the measures in place to plug the gap
in Senator demand, ahead of the commissioning of the Sh15 billion brewery in
Kisumu within two years. KBL is also seeking applications for Senator Keg
distributors, a central part of its larger plan to improve its products
footprint across Kenya. “Demand in Senator has been
growing faster than we expected in the last year as more retailers open new
outlets and more consumers trade up from illicit brews. We have responded to
this trend with the newly-commissioned rackers project meant to lift our
production capacity. We hope to meet demand with this, ahead of the Kisumu
brewery opening,” said Karuku. Senator is distributed in
50-litre kegs or barrels, in which the iconic beer is distributed across Kenya.
To package Senator, kegs are filled with product using a piece of equipment called
a racker, whereby empty kegs are positioned successively at one end of the
racker before passing sequentially through a series of stations where different
operations are performed on the kegs before sealing. Karuku said the plans are
afoot to expand the beer's distribution and retail network in a broader plan to
ensure retailers and customers are supplied adequately and on time. In long run, the state-of-the-art brewery in Kisumu will remain a key
pillar of KBL’s next growth agenda, given its scale and potential to produce 1
million hectolitres per year. The Kisumu brewery is projected to create up to
110,000 direct and value-chain jobs including an expected 15,000 new farmers
supplying it with sorghum and millet. Since it started the production
of keg beer in 2004, KBL has invested heavily into the production distribution
and retail of Africa’s most successful low-end beer brand, with billions of
shilling dedicated to research and extension services for sorghum, production
and packaging.