Raila Odinga has criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for being 'angry at the Supreme Court ruling', saying Kenyans have more reasons to be angry.Uhuru revealed he was "really angry" when the Supreme Court ruled against his re-election.He said: "Wengine wetu tulikuwa na uchungu mwingi ... hata mimi ni binadamu na nilikuwa nimekasirika sana (Some of us were in a lot of pain ... I am human and I was very annoyed)."More on this: 'Hata wewe ungesikia aje?' Uhuru admits Supreme Court ruling left him 'really angry'More on claims: Raila stole my victory by misleading Supreme Court, says Uhuru"Uhuru bwana usikasirike na Wakenya bwana; Wakenya wako na hasira nyingi kukushinda, (Don't be angry with Kenyans, Uhuru; Kenyans have more anger than you)" Raila said during Dandora rally in Nairobi on Sunday.Raila also claimed Uhuru's remarks at Burma market were made after he had taken alcohol."Baada ya Maraga kutoa uamuzi, Uhuru alienda akakunywa pombe mingi halafu anatukodelea macho. Anaanza kutusi mahakama ati hawa ni wakora. Uhuru mpaka aeshimu mahakama," he said.(After Chief Justice David Maraga made the ruling, Uhuru went off to drink alcohol. Then he started to insult the Supreme Court, calling the judges cheats. Uhuru must respect the judiciary.)The Opposition leader said Kenya did not belong to the Jubilee Party but to all people who wanted change ."Kenya ni ya wote. Kenya si yako ni ya wakenya. Huwezi kuwa rais bila idhini ya waKenya," he said.Raila said they have ideologies and agendas that they will offer to Kenyans.Uhuru in his address to Kisii leaders, likened the cancellation of his victory to losing a bull after buying it."Hata wewe ukienda kwa soko ukanunua ngombe akaibwa, halafu polisi apate huyo ng'ombe. Kisha hiyo kesi ipelekwe kortini na kwa sababu haukuwa na p3 form unanyimwa ng'ombe. Huo ni ungwana (If you go to a mark and buy a cow and then it is stolen ... police find it and there is a court case but you are not allowed to take the animal because you don't have a p3 form ... Is that sensible?)"Wewe ungesikia namna gani? Mimi sina shida na wakisii but niko na shida na uamuzi ule (How would you feel? I don't have a problem with Kisii people but I have a problem with the verdict.)'FAKE MAJORITY IN PARLIAMENT'Raila further said Jubilee won the 'majority votes' through rigging and not in a free and fair elections environment."Mahakama ikianza kazi yake, viongozi bandia wataenda nyumbani ... hapa nairobi, Governor Evans Kidero alishinda. Hakuna vile Mike Sonko angeshida Kidero," he said.(When election petitions start being heard, fake leaders will go home. In Nairobi, Evans Kidero won. There is no way Mike Sonko could have defeated Kidero.)"Hapa Nairobi tulishinda viti 12. Zingine ziliibiwa ... wanasema wako na majority kwa mbuge ... ni majority ya bandia. Jubilee hawawezi kututisha. Mtaona Mahaka wakifanya kazi yao," he added.(In Nairobi we won 12 seats. Others were stole. [Jubilee] says it has a majority in Parliament, but that is fake. Jubilee cannot scare us. You will see the courts do their work.)Raila claimed they won the election by 1.6 million votes Contrary to what the IEBC said. IEBC announced that Uhuru won with 1.4m votes against Raila."Tulishinda Uhuru na 1.6 million. Uhuru is in office illegally. Uhuru cannot defeat us even if we went to another election ten times. We are ready for Jubilee," he said.[VIDEO] We're ready to prove Judiciary wrong, says Uhuru, asks IEBC to set dates'JUBILEE RESPONSIBLE FOR POST POLL DEATHS'Raila further claimed the Jubilee Party orchestrated the deaths that occurred after the post poll.A rights group said there were at least 24 deaths in election-related unrest."Ni mipango walipanga ... walipanga ati baada ya kuiba watume masakari Mathare, Kibera kuua watu," he said.(It is something they planned ... they planned to steal the election then send security officials to Mathare and Kibera to kill people.)"Yale ndiyo yalikuwa mauaji ya Uhuru na Ruto hawa jamaa ni wanyama ... the Kisumu deaths ... tunahasira ... Uhuru anapiga kifua anajifanya hana hasira ... hasira gani?" Raila said.(Uhuru and Ruto are responsible for the killings ... they are like animals .. the Kisumu deaths ... we are angry. Uhuru is thumping his chest saying he is angry ... what anger?)Earlier in the day, Raila announced countrywide campaigns for the removal of 12 IEBC officials before the repeat poll.Deputy President William Ruto censured the Opposition leader saying electoral commissioners are protected by the constitution.Uhuru and Raila will face off in the presidential race in exactly one month.Also read: I disagree with Supreme Court ruling but respect it, Uhuru says