A section of Northeastern MPs, led by Aden Duale, have strongly defended IEBC commissioner Abdi Guliye against removal from the commission. They said NASA leader Raila Odinga's calls for his sacking alongside several other IEBC officials amount to ethnic profiling. Raila has named 11 IEBC officials whom he wants removed from office ahead of the October 17 fresh poll. The Opposition leader says the officers were complicit in processing fake forms 34B across 80 constituencies during the August 8 elections. He has named CEO Ezra Chiloba, commissioner Guliye, deputy commission secretary Betty Nyabuto and ICT director James Muhati. Others are Marijan Hussein Marijan, Praxedes Tororey, Silas Rotich and Nancy Kariuki. Raila also wants commissioner Immaculate Kassait, Sidney Namulungu and Moses Kipkogey shown the door before he can agree to participate in the fresh elections. More on this: 'No October poll until Chiloba is out': NASA gives IEBC nine fresh demands However, North Eastern legislators have said they will not lay low and take threats to remove Guliye. "Professor Guliye was vetted by the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and approved by the plenary,"  Duale said during a press briefing at Parliament buildings on Wednesday. "So, he is not at IEBC at anybody’s pleasure." The National Assembly majority leader and Garissa Town MP challenged Raila to follow legal channels for removing a constitutional office holder. "Raila Odinga, if you want to remove professor Guliye, you will not remove him through a rally in Kibera," he said. "Bring a petition to the House where the Legal Affairs committee will deal with it (then) the President will form a tribunal." At Kibera's Kamkunji grounds on Tuesday, the Opposition chief said he will only participate in the repeat election once the officials are replaced. "If they are not removed, there will be no elections on October 17," Raila said. Duale, however, equated Raila’s Kibera declaration as "noise of the frogs that will not deter camels, cattle and goats from drinking water". Others present were Aldas MP Adan Keynan, Isiolo woman representative Rehema Jaldesa and Ijara MP Sophia Abdi. "In the past we have allowed you to profile us as warlords. But this time, we are ready to deal with you," Jaldesa told Raila. "We denied you our votes - you got only 23 per cent. On October 17, you will get zero per cent. That I can assure you." Read: 'No October poll until Chiloba is out': NASA gives IEBC nine fresh demands   