Angry youths disrupted the burial ceremony of Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi's father after they tried to attack Jubilee-affiliated MPs on Saturday. The mob accused MPs Didimus Baraza (Kimilili) and Mwambu Mambonga (Bumula) of selling out Mulembe nation to President Uhuru Kenyatta after attending a meeting in State House Nairobi. Trouble started when the first time MP Baraza arrived at the Bwema home as Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula addressed mourners. The MP was shouted down by the crowd shortly after he was welcomed on the podium to pay tribute to the deceased, Mathew Wafula. "If you shout at a leader when he is speaking to you, you will never give birth to a leader in your house. Respect me kindly and let me speak my mind," Baraza said. But the crowd relented, throwing plastic water bottles at him as they called him a traitor and "tumbocrat". Police intervened and frisked Baraza away. Read: Luhya leaders backing Uhuru add no value, NASA MPs say Mambonga spoke earlier about going through many difficulties to get his seat, which is why Jubilee invited him to State House. Wamunyinyi, Wetang'ula and Governor Wycliffe Wangamati also had to intervene and calm the crowd. The incident happened in the presence of NASA leaders Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka, who were among leaders that attended the funeral.  NASA leaders at the burial of Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi's father, September 16, 2017. /BRIAN OJAMAA KENYANS 'BITTER WITH JUBILEE' Raila said that the incident was as a result of the bitterness Kenyans have with Jubilee government for stealing NASA victory. "We are hearing Jubilee saying that NASA are not campaigning we finished campaign long time ago what we are waiting is for 17th of next month for as to show them dust," the Opposition leader said. Raila retaliated that as NASA they will not go to the coming polls if the French company OT Morpho is not probed for allowing the IEBC systems to be hacked and tempering with Kenyans polls. More on this: Probe French firms for criminal acts, fraud during August 8 polls - NASA [Statement] French firm responds to NASA hacking claims "We have seen them jumping here in Western trying to ask for votes we want to tell them that here they will get zero and should forget about votes here," he said. Kalonzo said voters are wiser now that they know what "evil plans" the Jubilee administration has in store "They are saying that we are scared for the votes and they will use the same razor we are telling the same God is still the same he who gave us victory in 2013 and they ran with it will still give us overwhelming victory next month for as to take this country forward," he added. Mudavadi claimed that Jubilee gave cash to leaders from Western who went to State House to buy ID cards. "We are wondering with our brothers from Luhya nation who are asking us where we are as a community; we want to tell them today that Luhya are in NASA firmly," he said. He said Western region has committed to give Raila 99 per cent of votes on October 17. Lawyer Ediwn Sifuna chided Western leaders who went to meet Uhuru saying they did not manage to get more votes than he did in Nairobi combined. "We know that those who went there are greedy tumbocrats who want to sell out our community," the Nairobi Senator candidate added. But former Kakamega Senator Bonface Khalwale defended the leaders saying the community should forgive them. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said they have given a directive to youths that any person found buying or selling ID card in western will be dealt with accordingly. "We will not hand you over to the police because you must be a very big enemy of the Luhya community and if found you will have it rough." he said. Siaya Senator James Orengo said that they will ensure Jubilee does not steal votes and NASA will only go to the polls if the demands they have put on table are met.