As Kenya joins the rest of the world in commemorating World Contraception Day today, the place of youth in the conversation about access to sexual and reproductive health services must come up for discussion. The day is observed annually to improve awareness of contraception. This year, the focus is on enabling young people in Kenya to make informed choices on their sexual and reproductive health. Young people have not been part of the sexual and reproductive health conversation, as they should. A recent report by the Population Reference Bureau indicates that Kenya’s population is set to double to 96 million over the next 32 years. The section of Kenya’s population that is set to either benefit or suffer the consequences of this projected population growth are the youth. In order for youths, and indeed the country, to benefit from the growing youthful population in the near to medium term, the youth must be healthy and in charge of their social and economic destiny. One of the biggest threats to the health and economic well-being of Kenya’s youth is negative sexual and reproductive health outcomes — early, unintended pregnancies, high rates of new HIV infections as well as Aids-related illnesses and deaths. According to the National Aids Control Council, Aids is the leading cause of death and illness among adolescents and young people. Approximately 29 per cent of all new HIV infections are among these two groups. The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014 reveals that many Kenyans aged between 15 and 18 are becoming parents. Three out of 100 girls are already childbearing by age 15, rising to 40 out of 100 by age 19. Unfortunately, the youth of Kenya do not have sufficient opportunity to express their sexual and reproductive health needs on account of cultural and religious beliefs and misconceptions about young peoples’ sexuality. Key service providers lack adequate capacity to avail youth-friendly sexual and reproductive health information and services. According to the Ministry of Health’s own assessment through the Kenya Service Provision Assessment Survey of 2010, only seven per cent of public health facilities have the capacity to offer youth-friendly services. It is mind-boggling that the majority of Kenya’s population cannot access services for one of the biggest challenges facing them — sexual and reproductive health. Youth-friendly sexual and reproductive health services are those that effectively attract young people, meet their needs comfortably and responsively, and succeed in retaining young clients for continuing care. A combination of health facility characteristics include service provision approach and personnel offering services. These services include access to accurate information and safe, effective, affordable and acceptable contraception method of the client’s choice. In the past, international development partners, including foreign governments, have bridged the gap and supported the government to provide youth-friendly sexual and reproductive health services. However, recent changes in foreign policies abroad and shifting donor priorities mean that one of the biggest pots of funding for these services is set to become smaller. Due to this, it is becoming increasingly clear that domestic investments for youth-friendly sexual and reproductive health services need to become the most important source of funds. The silver lining is that the Constitution sets up a participatory system of management of public affairs. Governments, both national and county, are required to work with citizens to design and execute their programmes. County governments, the provider of primary health services, including access to sexual and reproductive health, must deliberately put young people at the front and centre of the sexual and reproductive health conversation. They must involve more young people in designing, planning and budgeting for youth-friendly sexual and reproductive health services, including access to contraceptives. Country director, Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevoelkerung evelyn.samba@dswkenya.org   