 The election of six governors in Nyanza is being challenged by their opponents and by voters. James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), Okoth Obado (Migori), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) all face petitions. In Migori, Ochilo Ayacko, who lost to Obado, filed his petition in Kisii seeking a declaration that Obado was not validly elected. He also wants Obado and the IEBC punished for committing election offences. Ochilo wants verification, recounting and re-tallying of all votes cast in the governor election. He also wants records, minutes of interviews and documents concerning recruitment of election officials. The former minister further wants scrutiny of votes cast in all polling stations, Forms 32, 32A, 37A, 37B, 37C, access to the IEBC portal server concerning Migori county, manual registers in Migori, polling station diaries and unused ballot papers. Ongwae faces two petitions filed by a loser Lumumba Nyamberi and voters Joel Onsando and Francis Omao. The voters want a declaration that non-compliance, irregularities and improprieties undermined the quality and integrity of the election. Further, they want Ongwae and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi barred from running for office for five yeas. In Homa Bay, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, who ran as an independent, wants Cyprian Awiti’s win nullified. Magwanga says he won but was rigged out. Awiti was declared winner with 210,173 votes against Magwanga’s 189,060 votes. Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma filed a petition seeking to remove Nyong’o from office. “We also want a recount and audit of voters, after which Ranguma would be found to have been properly elected,” Ranguma’s lawyer, Richard Onsongo, said. Former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo is challenging Rasanga. In Nyamira, former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati wants election of Nyagarama declared null and void. In Kisii, seven of eight elected MPs are facing petitions. The suits were filed at the Kisii High Court. The election of Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri and woman represenative Janet Ong’era have also been challenged. Nyaribari Chache MP Nyagaka Tong’i is facing two petitions. Losers Zaheer Jhanda and James Kenani have filed a joint petition. They want Jhanda, who finished second, declared the winner. Another loser Chris Bichage filed a separate petition.