President Uhuru Kenyatta is to tour Western Kenya this weekend to shore up support and make inroads before the presidential rerun on October 26. It will be the first time the head of state has visited the region since the Supreme Court nullified his victory on September 1. The region is a perceived opposition stronghold, but Jubilee made inroads, winning eight MP seats. Uhuru hopes to build on that. The President will be in Jubilee-friendly areas where MPs were elected on the party ticket in the August 8 General Election. On Friday, Uhuru will address a rally in Busia county, then attend Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka’s homecoming in Bungoma in the afternoon. He lost reelection as governof. The President will spend Friday night at the Kakamega State Lodge. There he will meet opinion leaders from all 33 constituencies of the former Western province on Saturday morning, Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said.He is the National Assembly chief whip. The MP said the President will attend his (Washiali’s) homecoming at Shianda in the afternoon. Yesterday Kakamega Jubilee officials were compiling lists of leaders who will meet the President. The President’s Jubilee Party won eight MP seats in the General Election, considered a sign of suprising inroads in the perceived opposition area. Jubilee won Ikolomani, Malava, Navakholo and Mumias East (Kakamega County) and Mt Elgon, Webuye West, Sirisia and Kimilili in Bungoma county. Uhuru aims to consolidate the support Jubilee has gained in the region. Several politicians from the region, who were initially in the opposition, have defected to Jubilee in the last three weeks and supported Uhuru. Early this month, Water CS Eugene Wamalwa led a delegation of Luhya leaders, mostly losers in the August poll, to State House to meet Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. They included UDP leader Cyrus Jirongo, former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba, former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga, former Westlands MP Fred Gumo, Senate Speaker Lusaka and Washiali. Namwamba lost to Raphael Wanjala and Jirongo ran for President. Former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khangati, who lost the Bungoma governor race to Wycliffe Wangamati, has also pledged support for Uhuru. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, who lost the Busia governor race to Sospeter Ojaamong, also backs Uhuru. DP Ruto will visit Bungoma county today. Former Assistant Minister Khang’ati will host the DP at his Namwacha home. Last week, Ruto attended the homecoming ceremony of Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga in Muyenga village. Mabonga (an independent) said he will work with Jubilee. The opposition alliance is yet to campaigning in the region ahead of the rematch between Uhuru and NASA’s Raila Odinga. Speaking in Bungoma two weeks ago, Raila said NASA finished campaigning in August. The Kakamega county NASA presidential campaign secretariat is set to launch Raila’s campaign next weekend. The launch was initially set for last Saturday but was moved forward after the IEBC pushed forward the election date from October 17. Jubilee aims to make more gains in Western Kenya. It is hoping to harvest more votes in battlefield zones, though it did not win a single governor’s seat. Two NASA principals, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi, are from Western Kenya and will be campaigning for Raila. In the August poll, Uhuru managed 125,865 votes in Bungoma, an improvement from the 42,988 of 2013. 