Nine students were charged on Thursday in a Chuka court with attempted arson. The nine are students at Gituntu Mixed Secondary School, Maara constituency, Tharaka Nithi county. They denied the charges before Chuka senior resident magistrate Mwanamkuu Sudi. The court heard that they were found with two litres of petrol inside the school dormitory on September 6 and were planning to burn the dormitory. They were released on Sh15,000 bail each with an alternative Sh100,000 bond each. Sudi ordered they be taken to Embu Level 5 Hospital for age assessment before they take a plea. The case will be mentioned on September 26 and the hearing is set for October 24.  Students suspected of arson This comes barely days after two students from St Augustine Ruguta Secondary School were charged in the same court. They were suspected of burning a food store worth Sh1 million on September 7. They are said to have colluded with others not before court. The two, aged 16 and 17 years, denied the charges before resident magistrate Lydia Masaba and were released on Sh300,000 bond each. Their case will be mentioned on September 28. The hearing has been set for December 7. Cases of student unrest and fires in schools have been rampant this month. On September 2, a fire razed a dormitory at Moi Girls High School Nairobi, killing nine students and injuring others.  Man lynched for stealing It is suspected to be an arson attack and one student has been charged. She denies the charges. On September 9, a kitchen at St George’s Girls Secondary School in Nairobi was also destroyed in a fire. Nobody was hurt. Several other school fires have been reported countrywide. Meanwhile, a 69-year-old man from Kamwimbi village, Chuka-Igambang’ombe constituency, was lynched for allegedly stealing iron sheets donated by Magumoni MCA Royford Muchiri. Chuka-Igambang’ombe police boss Baraza Saiya said the 12 pieces of iron sheets were recovered in Alfred Nkondi’s house. He urged residents not to lynch suspects, but report them to the police. “They should not take the law into their hands. They should inform the police and remain calm as investigations and prosecution take place,” Saiya said. The body was taken to Chuka Hospital mortuary. 