The farcical leadership of the IEBC by its chairman Wafula Chebukati has brought into sharp focus his corporate craftsmanship and suitability to hold such a critical constitutional office. His constant flip-flopping, U-turns and buck-passing smack of ineptitude, if not outright sabotage of the IEBC. On August 10, in conformity to Article 138 of the 2010 Constitution, read together with Section 39 of the Kenya Elections Act 2011, Chebukati, being the Presidential returning officer, declared Uhuru Kenyatta validly elected as President, having fulfilled all the requirements by law, and garnering 8,203,290 votes — representing 54.27 per cent of the votes cast — and having attained 25 per cent of the votes cast in 35 counties. The Constitution and Elections Act bestowed upon Chebukati, in his capacity as the IEBC chairman, and the electoral commission in its entirety the duty to tally and verify the results received at the national tallying centre, thereby validating them before making a declaration. In his replying affidavit responding to the ensuing presidential election petition filed by Raila Odinga, Chebukati indeed confirmed that he verily validated the results before the announcement, and was satisfied that the presiding officers at the 40,883 polling stations scanned and electronically transmitted the original Forms 34A to both the constituency and national tallying centres. In turn, the constituency returning officers electronically submitted to the National Tallying Centre the Forms 34B for purposes of tallying and declaration of the results of the Presidential election. He further avers that in view of the foregoing, the outcome of the election was verifiable as required by law, by reconciling the figures in Forms 34A. He further confirmed that he was personally present at the National Tallying Centre between August 8-11, and that he proceeded to countercheck the physical forms to confirm their consistency with those transmitted. But hardly had the ink dried on Chebukati’s sworn affidavit than he has proceeded to castigate the Secretariat and its CEO Ezra Chiloba in a public spat, raising questions about results from 595 polling stations that he claims the commission never received, and claiming that up to 10,336 polling stations only sent text results without Forms 34A. He also claimed that the IEBC used statutory forms without security features, while he had previously claimed in his affidavit filed at the Supreme Court that all security features were actually in place. Chebukati has also publicly raised queries about operational and financial operations of the commission, seeking answers from the IEBC Secretariat. Apart from the public attacks on the Secretariat, Chebukati has also announced personnel changes in the commission staff scheduled to run the October 17 repeat presidential election. In an apparent move to sideline Chiloba, the chairman unilaterally named a seven-member project team led by Marjan Hussein Marjan, reporting to him directly, to coordinate the October 17 polls and, in the process, causing a major rift among the commissioners, the majority of whom claim they were never consulted. The IEBC chairman’s style of management is increasingly appearing to be dictatorial, lacking in consultation, outside legal provisions and totally inconsistent with the principles of good corporate governance. Kenya cannot afford to have a failed electoral commission, incapable of fulfilling its mandate as prescribed by law. The IEBC must meet the expectations of Kenyans and guarantee that they’ll get the leaders they choose. Many African states have degenerated into civil strife and reversed socioeconomic gains on account of rogue electoral commissions. The goings-on at the IEBC are, therefore, disturbing, of grave concern and must be addressed urgently for the interest of 45 million Kenyans and posterity. The IEBC is a constitutional institution established for the purposes of conducting or supervising referenda and elections to any elective body or office established by the Constitution. It is run by a commission that has a chairman and seven commissioners, who are also mandated by law to appoint a secretary to the commission. The secretary also serves as the chief executive officer to the Secretariat, overseeing its day-to-day operations. The IEBC Act clearly stipulates how the commissioners are appointed, their code of conduct and their roles, the mandate of the commission and its commissioners and the functioning of the Secretariat and its administration. The success of the commission is, however, dependent on the sound leadership of the chairman, working in consultation with the commissioners, and executing its mandate through the Secretariat. When the chairman unilaterally appoints a team to run such a crucial election as the October 17 Presidential election, completely side-stepping the CEO and a majority of the commissioners, he not only opens the electoral outcome to legal challenges, but also ignores the cardinal principles of collective responsibility and consultation, which underpin sound corporate governance. It is totally inconceivable that the chairman of such an important constitutional institution will engage in a public spat with the Secretariat, and blame games with other commissioners on errors of omission or commission, when actually the buck stops with him as the head of the institution. The IEBC is very important for the peace, security and stability of this country: Chebukati stands at a historic moment in the political life of Kenya. He needs to revert to consultation, sound corporate governance and put the interest of the country first. He must not be allowed to hold 45 million Kenyans ransom on account of his incompetence, dishonesty or partisan political interests. Let’s hope the deliberations the commission had during its retreat last weekend will change the tide, and transform it to a credible cohesive institution.