Cardinal John Njue has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga to stop confrontations ahead of the repeat presidential election on October 26. He said the confrontation between the two is creating tension and anxiety. Njue spoke on Sunday at Mbiruri Catholic Church in Embu East subcounty, when he presided over celebrations to mark 31 years since it was established. He said the leaders’ differences over the repeat polls is threatening to tear the country apart. Njue told the two to swallow their pride and agree to sit together and look into the problems that might hamper a free, fair and credible election. “If the two senior leaders are able to sit down and share their differences, they can do the country a great favour, as the saying goes, a problem that is known and accepted is a problem solved,” he said. Njue urged Christians to pray for peace and unity during the campaigns. He said prayers are powerful weapons for bringing solutions to difficult situations. The Catholic head also urged parents to instil values such as peace, unity and love in their children at a young age. He said it is important for Christians to inculcate the virtues of love and avoid discrimination. NASA has said there will be no election if the demands it has made on the cleanup of the IEBC are not met. On the other hand, Jubilee insists the election will go on as scheduled. IEBC cleanup On Sunday, Raila said they will camp outside the IEBC Nairobi offices today in protest. The presidential candidate said they will do so until commission CEO Ezra Chiloba and 11 other managers leave office. Raila said he will not take part in the October 26 election unless major reforms take place at the electoral commission. At a rally in Kawangware, Nairobi, Raila said Chiloba was the “chief architect of malpractices” in the August 8 general election, which IEBC said he lost to Uhuru by more than I.4 million votes.  “We don’t fear going to the election, but we will only participate if the IEBC is reconstituted. Starting Tuesday, we will hold demonstrations outside IEBC offices to remove Chiloba from office,” he said. On September 1, the Supreme Court nullified the August 8 presidential election. In a 4-2 ruling, it said Uhuru’s reelection was null and void and ordered a fresh election. But Uhuru said the will of the voters should not be invalidated by technicalities.  He said no arm of government should frustrate the sovereign will of Kenyans, referring to his apparent numerical victory.