Remarks on 'sterilising' tetanus vaccine are not only unfortunate, but also a baseless pronouncement not backed by any scientific evidence, the Ministry of Health has said. MoH was responding to claims by Opposition leader Raila Odinga who claimed the vaccine causes sterility in women. "This is targeting mass sterilisation programme and we demand the government to release names of those who participated in this and apologise to people over it," Raila said. The NASA leader agreed with the Catholic Church which had raised concerns over the vaccine's safety. More on this: Apologise for 'sterilising women' with Tetanus vaccine, Raila tells State Also read: Tetanus vaccine is safe, say experts But in a statement on Monday, the ministry refuted the allegations saying the assertions are ill-intended. The ministry said Raila's remarks are intended to cause fear and despondency among Kenyans in the uptake of much needed essential health services. "It is very unfortunate for someone to issue such a careless and misleading statement which is intended to cause harm to the public by dissuading them from accessing a necessary medical intervention." The ministry assured Kenyans the tetanus toxoid vaccine is safe, secure and of high quality. "A joint committee found the sampled vaccine vials to be safe and free from any contaminants and recommended the vaccine for use," it said. MoH advised women who are eligible for this vaccine to access it in both public and private health facilities across the country. In 2014, the Catholic Church claimed some of the women who got the tetanus vaccine could not carry a pregnancy unless the process is reversed. "They have affirmed that most of the girls between 14 and 49 years will not be able to have children. The sterility can be reversed if the victims turn up for emergency intervention," Raila said. The Catholic Church had opposed a tetanus vaccination that targeted women between the ages of 19 and 49 years. It claimed the vaccination was a secret government plan to sterilise women and control population growth. The church said the ministry is well-known for running big campaigns against polio and malaria and wondered why the tetanus campaign had not received similar treatment. More on this: Catholic church opposes tetanus vaccination of women aged 19-49 Some 1.6 million Kenyan mothers were vaccinated against tetanus in October, despite a spirited campaign by the church. Tetanus is among the most common, lethal consequences of unclean deliveries and umbilical cord care practices, and has a 100 per cent death rate if not treated. Kenya is among the 28 countries in the world that have not eliminated tetanus since the WHO in 1989 called for its elimination by 1995.