MP Moses Kuria and Governor Ferdinand Waititu are back on the spot for incitement.On his Facebook page, the Gatundu South MP on Tuesday evening wrote: &ldquo;Manhunt is on tonight for the 200,000 people who did not vote and the 70,000 that voted for that other demon&rdquo;.&ldquo;Kiambu has spoken. They have said Wembe ni Ule Ule. Wangige and Kiambu people are seething with anger. 1 million of their votes were cancelled by 4 people. But they are so ready to do it again. And even more.&rdquo;Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has condemned the post.He said it was unacceptable and promised to refer the matter to the party&rsquo;s disciplinary committee if he established that the Facebook account belongs to Kuria.In an interview with NTV on Wednesday, Tuju said the sentiments do not mirror the party&rsquo;s image and he would personally take up the matter.&ldquo;That is completely out of order and I will not accept that kind of language. It is unacceptable because it cannot be Jubilee&rsquo;s policy. We cannot be put on the spot with a few elements in the party who are preaching the wrong thing in this country,&rdquo; he said.NCIC chairman Francis ole Kaparo told the Star on the phone he is unaware of the Facebook post and a video clip.He said he will look into them to The video clip has gone viral on social media showing Kuria and Waititu campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection, and attacking NASA leader Raila Odinga and his supporters.Kuria uttered dirty and unprintable sentiments against Raila.Waititu said, &ldquo;We are the children of Mau Mau and we will not accept to be deprived of our victory. We must show them we are not carrying babies on our backs and it is time to accord each other respect.&rdquo;Kuria defended Uhuru&rsquo;s August 8 victory that was nullified by the Supreme Court last Friday.&ldquo;We went ahead to conceive a baby and that baby did not die in the womb nor at the maternity. It had began to breastfeed but ... [obscene words] ... should we forgive that person?&rdquo; he asked.The crowd chanted &ldquo;No&rdquo;.&ldquo;We will not be snatched meat from our mouth again. Our people, are we in agreement? Till when will he continue disturbing us? Aaah, let me be jailed. Whom did you think the prisons are meant for?&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t like disputing His Excellency the President, but there is an issue that I disagree with him. He said we should greet each other as a sign of peace. I am not even interested in that peace. Greet that person next to you and tell them &lsquo;Be ready&rsquo;.&rdquo;