Candidates’ vying for various posts in the forthcoming National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) elections have accused the Nock executive of interference. The candidates, led by secretary general aspirant, Kenya Table Tennis Association (KTTA) chairman Andrew Mudibo, accused the executive of usurping the powers of the trying to undermine the poll’s independent electoral body, Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD). “It is sad and unacceptable that the Nock executive has taken over the roles of the independent electoral body CMD by delegating and giving them orders,” they said. The candidates said there is a conflict of interest as some of the executive members are interested parties since they are also participating in the polls as candidates. “How can a player in a completion assume the roles of a referee in the same contest? they posed. Others who feel aggrieved are Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) vice chairperson and veteran journalist Elyna Shiveka and Kenya Judo Association (KJA) chairman Shadrack Maluki who are gunning for the treasurer and vice president seats respectively as well as Kenya Sports Shooting and Rifle Federation general secretary Mohammed Shoiab a committee member aspirant. “The IOC letter dated September 14 is very clear on how important the independence of the electoral process has to run and also how any matter that they cannot resolve is to be handled by the General Assembly,” they said. They complained of the unilateral and unconstitutional decision made by the NOCK executive by drawing a list of delegates which does not have the blessings of the respective federations. “In the list that NOCK forwarded to federations, they have changed some names of delegates from the previous one which the CMD had before the May elections aborted,” they lamented. They wondered why the NOCK executive has gone ahead to hand pick federation officials which was preserve of the respective federations in accordance with NOCK constitution in selecting those to attend the meeting.