Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has accused NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga of trying to burn down the IEBC. He was joined on Tuesday by former Tana River Governor Hussein Dado, who said Kenya would be burning if Raila’s victory had been nullified by the Supreme Court. The two spoke as they distributed relief food in Handaraku, Tana Delta. Kiunjuri said Raila was disrespecting the Constitution by demanding sacking of some IEBC officials before an election rerun is held. NASA wants the IEBC reformed before the repeat poll on October 26. It says this is key to a free, fair and credible election. This comes after the Supreme Court indicted the electoral body for bungling the August 8 election. NASA leaders and supporters want IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba to resign. They have organised mass action to force him out of office. But Kiunjuri and Dado said Raila is out to destroy the IEBC — a constitutional body — despite his having fought for many years to bring about democracy in Kenya. Kiunjuri said there were proper channels for the removal of IEBC officials. He says it should be done through Parliament. “Raila claims to have fought for democracy in this country, but he does not respect the institution he helped set up. “Forcing the IEBC to go with the limited time [to the poll means] he wants to burn the institution,” he said. Kiunjuri told NASA leaders to have their families lead demonstrations, instead of using others to achieve their personal interests. He wants NASA to stop pushing President Uhuru Kenyatta to the wall because “he is still the President and has all the instruments of power and machinery at his disposal.” “What if Uhuru also says [Chief Justice David] Maraga must go? NASA even insulted Uhuru’s mother. We pray for peace, but if Uhuru is silent, it does not mean he is afraid,” Kiunjuri said. Dado said Raila does not mean well for Kenya and his only agenda is to incite wananchi to violence. He said Kenya would be burning if Raila were in Uhuru’s position now, with his victory overturned. Dado urged Uhuru to reject unnecessary demands by NASA. He told Kenyans to “thank God Kenyatta is President, as the country would be in pieces” had Raila been in State House. The former county chief said his votes were stolen on August 8 and he sought legal redress, not violence.