The National Cohesion and Integration Commission seems to be a toothless barking dog and in very deep slumber. Many are asking why the Francis ole Kaparo-led agency has failed to prosecute some Mt Kenya JP politicians heard in a video clip instigating hate speech and inciting their people in a recent rally pushing for President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection. Many are asking why the NCIC receives an annual budget amounting to millions of shillings from the public coffers, yet it does little to prosecute hate mongers. ***** Some Bungoma residents and Western NASA lawmakers are very annoyed with former county boss turned Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. Reason? Lusaka's move to reduce himself to a turn-boy after being spotted hanging on Deputy President William Ruto's vehicle during the Githurai rally in Kiambu on Sunday did not go down well with his people back at home. Residents and leaders are still wondering how a high-profile Senate Speaker could reduce himself to such a level to please one of his masters, addressing the crowd from the vehicle's sunroof. The MPs were heard seeking answers whether Lusaka's demeaning action is part of his agreement with the Jubilee leaders after landing the coveted top Senate position.  ***** Do some NASA parties really care about having enough and hygienic social amenities like toilets at their headquarters? Word has it that Wiper headquarters located in the posh Lavington suburb lacks adequate washrooms to accommodate a large number of party members, leave alone the NASA coalition brigades, whenever parliamentary group meetings are convened at the place. Political leaders, including MPs, governors, woman representatives and MCAs are said to even queue like schoolchildren waiting for their colleagues to get out of the facility to also use. ***** Many people in Nairobi and neighbouring counties are eagerly waiting for police and other investigating agencies to come clear on claims that suspicious youths are harassing and forcing some Kenyans to produce IDs along the Thika Superhighway to establish their tribe ahead of the upcoming fresh Presidential poll. Victims’ reports confirm harassment by youths from a particular community who have been engaging in the illegal act that could plunge the country into ethnic clashes has left citizens in the affected areas in much fear. Some civil society workers were heard asking when the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet is coming out publicly to tell Kenyans the truth on these reports and what police action will follow.