Kenya is very tense. The Supreme Court nullified the August 8 election, primarily because of problems in the transmission of results. Both sides over-reacted. President Uhuru Kenyatta accused the Supreme Court judges of a ‘coup’ and called them ‘wakora’.  He called Raila ‘mchawi’. He has threatened to clip the wings of the judiciary after the October 26 election. This would effectively end the checks and balances between the judiciary, legislature and executive. Nasa took the Supreme Court ruling as conclusive evidence of election rigging. Raila has called Uhuru a ‘madman’ and made increasingly alarming allegations about a conspiracy involving the IEBC, Safran Morpho, Safaricom and al Ghurair printing company. He is now threatening a boycott of Safaricom even though the company protests its innocence. The Nasa and Jubilee hardliners are following their leaders. There have been rumours of a return of Mungiki and a Jubilee MP has filed a petition seeking the removal of Chief Justice David Maraga. Both Jubilee and Nasa supporters have demonstrated on the streets across the country, burning tyres and causing mayhem. Both sides need to back down. Nasa is so far refusing to confirm that it will participate in the October 26 election. It is demanding that IEBC personnel be changed and the Morpho technology replaced. These demands are unrealistic if the IEBC is to organize the election within 60 days, as ordered by the Supreme Court. Kenya stands on the edge of the precipice. If there is no election, as a result of Nasa pressure, then Jubilee may interpret that as mandate for Uhuru to continue in office for another five years. That can lead to chaos. If there is an election on October 26 but Nasa attempts to disrupt it with mass demonstrations, that too can lead to chaos. And if Nasa boycotts the election, then for the next five years many Kenyans will be resentful, feeling cheated and disrespected. We have been bombarded with hostile rhetoric from both sides since August and the country is deeply divided. It is as if Nasa and Jubilee live in parallel universes, like Israel and Palestine, where they can agree on almost nothing. This division has become so deep that we risk tearing Kenya apart. The fissures that we saw in 2007 have still not been fully healed. We run the risk of a return to widespread violence. It is time for our leaders to come together and say enough is enough. Raila and Uhuru should rein in their hardliners. They should appear together in public and call on their supporters to calm down. They should demand that their supporters respect all Kenyans, whatever their political views. They should tone down their own language. Nasa should pledge that it will participate in the October 26 election and honour the result. The IEBC and the government should in turn ensure that Nasa officials are in a position to monitor the transmission and tallying process to their satisfaction. The Supreme Court did identify grave irregularities and illegalities that led to the unprecedented cancellation of the presidential election. Time pressure has prevented fundamental change at the IEBC. Effectively the IEBC has been given a second chance. The DPP is presently investigating to see if there were criminal actions during the August 8 election. If those errors in the election are repeated on October 26, that will be damning evidence that the IEBC is criminally negligent, or compromised. Those election errors must not happen again, and if they do, those responsible must be severely punished. Either way there will only be one President after the election. Whoever wins will have a phenomenal challenge to mend the broken bonds within our nation.  