A democratic election is a process and not an event. It involves institutions, rules, regulations and procedures that provide the framework for certain actions to be undertaken over time so that the event of casting a vote may lead to a democratic outcome. Even after the vote is cast, there are certain actions and activities that, if undertaken outside certain prerequisite procedures, may easily undermine the democratic outcome of an election. Let me explain this with specific reference to the Kenyan elections of 2013 and 2017, whose processes and outcomes are not very different. The only difference is that the Willy Mutunga Supreme Court saw the election as an event, while David Maraga’s took process more seriously. Our Constitution is very elaborate on the issue of elections. Chapter 7 is devoted to “Representation of the People” and deals with this in three parts. Part One is on the Electoral System and Process (please note the word “process”). Part Two is on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and delimitation of electoral units. Part Three is on Political Parties. Apart from the IEBC as a specific institution that manages elections and determines electoral units, we have another institution related to the management of political parties: This is the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties. Parliament has, in accordance with the Constitution, passed specific laws with regard to these two institutions. Hence, holding democratic elections is not a simple matter: It is founded on an edifice that requires careful architecture. It is important to note that our Constitution begins by laying down the general principles that should guide our ‘electoral system’ and not simply our ‘Election Day.’ These principles, stated clearly in Article 81, include, among other things, the following. Freedom of citizens to exercise their political rights of belonging to political parties; campaigning for a party of choice; registering as voters and voting by secret ballot in free, fair and regular elections based on universal suffrage; having elections administered by an independent, transparent, impartial, neutral, efficient, accurate and accountable body that is called the IEBC. There is no aspect of the Constitution that is less important than the other. As I have noted, the Constitution is a complete edifice. One would have thought that with such elaborate constitutional provisions, the 2013 and 2017 elections should have been tremendous successes if the “rules of the game” were followed to the letter. The problem is that they were not followed. The key arbiter or referee, the IEBC, was not fully prepared to run the game in both cases. The Justice Maraga Supreme Court took this issue seriously, while Mutunga’s threw this issue under the bus. Were we to assume that the IEBC was well prepared to run the elections in 2013, we can now determine, retroactively, that Cord’s 900-page affidavit had information to the contrary, proving this was not the case. But this information was never to be presented in Court that deemed technicalities more important than substance. In 2013, the IEBC determined to run the game under other rules manufactured outside the framework of the Constitution, setting the stage for the likes of Ezra Chiloba for a repeat performance this year. That is why when one player was dissatisfied with the outcome and went to the Supreme Court — the final arbiter in election disputes — the Court declined to look into the evidence on purely technical grounds. Remember, in his inaugural address, Mutunga had said the Court would not — as a matter of principle — deny any Kenyan justice purely on technical grounds. When it came to arbitrating an election dispute, that principle conveniently flew out the window! Much more devastating was that in 2013, two critical aspects in the “election process” had been completely mishandled by the IEBC due to corruption (manifested in the ChickenGate scandal). These were the registration of voters (registration equipment was unevenly distributed, favouring certain areas and under-serving others) and the counting of votes. I had a practical example in a polling station in the Rift Valley, where 178 votes were registered and 134 votes cast. When the votes were finally “counted” at the Bomas of Kenya, it turned out that 434 votes were cast. Of course, when this was fed into the computer, it automatically rejected it having “known” in that particular station, only 178 people were registered to vote! Hence, the screen at Bomas of Kenya was rejecting lots of results as “spoilt votes”. The spoilt votes were becoming a “winning Presidential candidate” before the IEBC decided to crash the server and begin manual counting without involving party agents. The whole vote counting became a sham and the results were based on the malicious figments of the corrupt imaginations of the IEBC! The same IEBC eventually asked to dump the registration equipment they used, lose billions of shillings and start yet another procurement process undertaken by the same people, at breakneck speed and obviously intended to fail! How naughty! This, however, was eventually done. Under controversial procurement processes, ballot boxes and ballots were procured by the Wafaula Chebukati/Chiloba Commission with the same history of kickbacks and dubious business transactions being smelt everywhere in the air. As the French say, “Plus ça change, plus c’est la même!” Kenyans never wanted this repeat performance this year. We, therefore, unleashed a struggle, after the 2013 debacle, for appropriate “process changes” in our electoral system before the election on August 8. But there were politicians who spoke with mouths open and minds closed. They seem to have insisted we should not be concerned about the system and process, just wait for Election Day for “numbers to decide who wins and who loses”. I have always said the essence of a democratic election is based on the fact that “while the victor celebrates the results, the loser must accept the outcome as legitimate.” This can only happen if the system and process are both democratic, and hence produces legitimate results. That is why the rules of the game that set up the system, define and establish the process and finally put in place the persons and gadgets for electoral management must be acceptable to all players and must be mobilised and used without any blemish that could bias the results. It must be realised that citizens may be enthusiastic and ready to choose their leaders democratically but they may not be accorded the opportunity to vote because they are denied their identity as citizens, hence the importance of ‘the identity card’. Denying citizens IDs is part of rigging an election. Citizens may have IDs but they may not be registered to vote. This, again, is another aspect of rigging. Citizens may have both the ID and the voting card but on voting day, they may not access the polling station; or, even if they do, the voting technology (KIEMS, for example) may fail miserably, jeopardising their chance to cast their votes freely and fairly: this is yet another aspect of rigging. Votes may be cast but may not be protected as such: others may be added from the dead or from some UFOs. Votes may be cast but may not be properly and fairly counted as happened in 2007, 2013 and now 2017! That is the most obvious form of rigging. In certain African countries, even when votes are counted they are not announced; the incumbent simply continues in office through the repressive might of the state. And even if they are announced, the figures may not in any way correspond with reality since the process through which the figures were arrived at was botched, hardly following agreed rules of the game. This year, notwithstanding the changes in electoral laws introducing sophisticated electronic registration, voting and transmission systems, Kenya still faced threats of rigging given the composition and history of the IEBC, the reluctance by the government to fund and equip the commission in a transparent manner and the way in which the Jubilee regime was determined to appoint the Chief Justice and the Inspector General of the Police without due regard to the Constitution. Kenyans should not forget what happened when these two offices were being filled and the controversies therein. In the meantime, the government rarely showed much concern about the proper issuing of IDs and the registration of voters. Frequent complaints by MPs, civil society organisations and political parties that the issuance of IDs was skewed, especially in so-called opposition zones, went unattended to. We are all aware of a neighbouring country where the ruler has “won” one election after another because of the utter confusion in the electoral process. That neighbour seems to have given some election tutorials to his friends on our side of the border. When one adds the feverish process of building ‘election war chests’ through massive corruption in government, the likelihood of going the way our neighbour has gone frightens me. We must protect our hard-earned democracy at all costs. Thank you ,Justice Maraga.