Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has joined hands with 13 counties under the lake region to make a joint economic strategy. The counties are Kisumu, Bungoma,TransNzoia, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Siaya, Migori, Bomet, Kericho and Homa Bay. The plan will fast track development of collective investments  to enable counties implement big projects. Investors are being sought to put money to build specialist hospitals, a lake region ring road, tourism circuit, educational centres of excellence in every county an agricultural commodities exchange centre and a regional bank. The lake region economic blueprint was unveiled by former Council of Governors chairman Isaac Ruto in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta and governors within the block at the second national devolution conference held in Kisumu in 2015. The governors agreed to direct their energy towards developing key sectors, including infrastructure, ICT, health, tourism, education, agriculture and financial services. Counties with insufficient resources will benefit by jointly pulling resources and collaborating with other counties with more funds to implement mega projects that would have been difficult to execute separately. According to the latest UN report on sustainable development goals, the speed of implementing the 17 SDGs must be accelerated  to achieve the goals by 2030. “If the world is to eradicate poverty, address climate change and build peaceful, inclusive societies for all by 2030, key stakeholders, including governments, must drive implementation of the SDGs at a faster rate,” UN secretary- general Antonio Guterres said. According to the report launched in July, progress has been made over the past decade across all areas of development, but the implementation of the SDGs has been slow. In areas of sustainable energy, more than three billion people lack access to clean cooking oil and this led to an estimated 4.3 million deaths in 2012. Between the years 2000 and 2015, the global maternal mortality ratio declined by 37 per cent and the under-five mortality rate fell by 44 per cent. About 303,000 women died during pregnancy or childbirth.