Political leaders have accused the Supreme Court of overturning the will of the people after it nullified the August 8 presidential election. The four judges who voted to overturn the election have been accused of conspiring to execute a civilian coup. The folly of this accusation demonstrates lack of understanding of how common law jurisprudence works. There is only one judgment of the Supreme Court — that the petition was allowed. In common law jurisdictions, dissenting judgments are commonplace. They are not written for the purpose of showing the reasons for the decision but for showing the views of a particular judge, which have, after careful consideration in conference, been rejected by his/her colleagues. They thus have no value as precedents; this is true notwithstanding the ability and standing of the judge who dissents. If s/he were to write a treatise on the law and state as a principle one that had been rejected by the court of which he was a member, his statement would not be received as authority. It must, however, be acknowledged that dissenting judgments properly done and formulated have had significant impact on the rule of law. In Kenya the most celebrated dissenting judgment was that of Chief Justice Kwesi Apaloo in the case of Mbuthia v Jimba Credit Finance Corporation & another. His interpretation on the essence of the equity of redemption and the fact that it was to give a mortgagor a reasonable chance of redemption and thus save his land was the correct interpretation. Justices Platt and Masime missed the mark by a mile. In his book The Will of the People: How Public Opinion Has Influenced the Supreme Court and Shaped the Meaning of the Constitution, Renowned American author Barry Friedman explores the tension between the Supreme Court of America and the Executive. He demonstrates that the court has always been subject to a higher power: The American public. The justices never face election and hold their offices for life. To some this seems undemocratic, but the people have come to recognise the judges as a part of the American democracy. Jack Balkin, a professor of constitutional law and the First Amendment at Yale Law School, writes that the will of the people “is a legal and political fiction”. Real people do have real desires and real values. And when the state ignores them and oppresses them, that oppression is real too. Yet the “will of the people” that politicians are constantly prattling on about does not precede the political process. Rather, it is constructed by that process.” He declares that the ‘will of the people’ and ‘the people have spoken’ are false constructions that are used to delegitimise opponents and shut down debate. It’s a bastardisation of democracy, Jean-Paul Gagnon and Mark Chou declare. They state, “Many legal and political philosophers have a long history of debating whether the will of the people can be determined or whether we can ever know if the people have spoken.” Their view is that popular references to ‘the people’ and their will are an oversimplification of issues. They argue that, “Elections are heavily mediated and controlled procedures — there is actually very little “speaking” going on by “the people” when citizens vote. Stalin is reported to have said it is not the people who vote that matter but the people who count the votes. Kenyans must cultivate the culture of constitutionalism. Gagnon and Chou point out, “Democracy is not a winner-takes-all scenario where those who win the election become the rulers with a sacred mandate to govern as they see fit. Democracy is an ongoing process of deliberation, monitoring, inclusion and resistance. To work properly, it requires voters and their representatives to work together to achieve the most palatable ends” for all citizens. The will of the people of Kenya was that elections must be transparent, accountable and verifiable. To the extent that the Supreme Court found the August 8 election was not conducted in accordance with the Constitution they were justified in overturning it. Mwamu is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and past president of theEast Africa Law Society.