The role of election observation groups as an integral part of the democratic and electoral processes came under scrutiny after some groups declared the August 8 general election credible, only for the presidential results to be invalidated by the Supreme Court. The foreign election monitors had announced their satisfaction with how the IEBC conducted the polls and even implored NASA leader Raila Odinga to accept the results, which showed he had lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta by more than a million votes. This was despite local observers expressing concerns that the electoral process was a fraud. Njonjo Mue, the International Commission of Jurists Kenya chapter chairman, criticised the foreign observers for failing to understand country’s electoral process and dynamics. He said the observers made their reports that the electoral process was free, fair and credible even before the election was concluded. RIGGING POINT “Election is a process. The observers who came from abroad seem to have came here to observe Kenyans queuing orderly and went back to say this was a fair election. They should have said Kenyans are able to queue because that was the observation they made,” Mue said. “And we know since 2007, 2013, and this election that Kenyan elections are not rigged at the polling stations anymore — that is what used to happen in the 1990s, when ballot boxes used to be stuffed and others thrown into rivers — we have moved on. Elections are rigged at the point at which results are being transmitted and tallied to determine the final outcome.”  Civil Society Reference Group convener Suba Churchill said the international observer missions erred in using the same standards in every jurisdiction. He said using the same benchmarks, cutting and pasting the same recommendations from one country to another, is what has led to indictment of the of the international observation groups, which has left them with egg on their faces. “The laws of Kenya as a jurisdiction in respect to the elections are different from those of Uganda, Tanzania. So any international observer going to a country to observe an election must first and foremost establish the threshold that that country has set for itself in what constitutes a free and fair and credible election,” Churchill said. “Particularly, the international missions must rethink their standards and measure those standards to internationally recognised benchmarks that have been set for election observation.” Churchill said the observers were not honest with what they were doing or understand how an election monitoring should be done. He asked how observer groups could speak with a finality to give the entire electoral process a clean bill of health, only for judges to establish beyond reasonable doubt that there were irreconcilable irregularities committed by the IEBC. ELECTORAL LAWS The AU has its own declaration on what constitutes free, fair and credible election. “I have been an observer for the AU in 28 African countries and I know the limitations that the observers have. Electoral laws and democratic space vary from one country to another,” Churchill said. “The problem is when they [observers] speak with such authority as to the extent that their reports are being used by certain parties to the petition to defend their so-called victory. When they come here a week before elections, visit a polling station for five minutes and give the entire process there a clean bill of health, they are not being honest with themselves.” He said the Supreme Court ruling that declared the results null and void is an indictment of the IEBC that presided over the election, and of the findings and observations of the international observers. “All those parties that have found themselves on the receiving end with respect to this judgment have to rethink their strategy and think in terms of the constitutional benchmarks Kenya has set for itself with regard to elections.” EU observers have suggested the IEBC engage in regular and meaningful stakeholder consultation and frequent, comprehensive public communication to ensure a smooth repeat election.