The Njuri Ncheke council of elders has been governing the Meru community since the 17th century. The Ameru people comprise nine communities: Chuka, Igembe, Igoji, Imenti, Mitine, Muthambi, Mwimbi and Tharaka Tigania. Each of the clans in the Ameru community, which includes Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties, has representatives from village to constituency level, where there are officials such as treasurer, chairman and secretary general. These officials represent them in the supreme council of elders’ meetings in their headquarters at the Nchiru shrine, Tigania West constituency. The elders forming the Njuri Ncheke are carefully selected and comprise mature, composed, respected and incorruptible members of the community. This is necessary, as their work requires great wisdom, personal discipline and knowledge of the traditions. The functions of the Njuri Ncheke are to make and execute community laws, to listen to and settle disputes, and to pass on community knowledge and norms across the generations in their role as the custodians of traditional culture. THREE RANKS Local disputes will invariably first be dealt with by lower ranks of the elders (Kiama), then the middle rank (Njuri) and finally the Njuri Ncheke. However, Njuri Ncheke does not handle matters involving non-Meru people, or those who are expressly under Kenya's common law. Interestingly, the determination of cases by the Njuri Ncheke, just like is for common law, relies a lot on case law and precedence. A lesser known yet important function of the Njuri Ncheke is overseeing and enforcing the rules and regulations controlling the use and conservation of open grasslands, salt-licks and forests. Their work as conservators extends to the preservation of the Sacred Sites. The Njuri Ncheke is also influential in the socioeconomic and political decision-making among the Meru. The council spearheaded the establishment of the Meru College of Science and Technology in 1983 and donated 641 acres of community land for its sitting and development. The college was upgraded in 2008 to a University College of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. In early 2013, the varsity was awarded a charter by President Mwai Kibaki and renamed Meru University of Science and Technology. Njuri Ncheke is represented in the University Council.