World 3000 metres steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto has been sued in Eldoret by a woman accusing him of neglecting their child. She wants the Children’s Court to order him to pay child upkeep. The woman claims she and Kipruto, also the 3000 metres steeplechase Olympics Champion, lived as husband and wife between 2015 and 2016. She says they have a son. The woman says she is an orphan from Mosoriot, Nandi county, and is unemployed. She says Kipruto has cut all communications between them and neglected the child. Kipruto also comes from Mosoriot. The woman wants the court to order Kipruto to pay Sh50,000 monthly upkeep for the child. She is demanding the athlete be compelled to pay Sh15,000 monthly for food, Sh15,000 for rent, Sh12,000 for clothing, Sh3,000 for electricity and water, Sh5,000 for a house help and medical expenses. Kipruto has been summoned to appear at the chief magistrate’s court on September 25 for the hearing. The woman sought help from the Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Eldoret to file the case. “She came to us for assistance and we will provide a lawyer to prosecute the case for her,” CHRD chief executive Ken Wafula said yesterday. The case was first filed in February this year, but a date for the hearing had not been set. “We cohabited as husband and wife from May 2015 and we were blessed with one child. Our relationship and perceived marriage has gone sour to the extent that the defendant doesn’t contact us and doesn’t provide for the child,” the woman says in her affidavit. “This has left me to struggle alone.” She said she does not have a job and Kipruto is planning to marry another woman. “He is a successful athlete of international repute with means and resources to meet the basic requirements of the child, while in my custody,” the woman says. She says Kiputo will not support  the child as his biological father, unless he is compelled to do so by the court. The woman says Kipruto is under obligation to perform his parental responsibilities to maintain the child by paying for upkeep. Kipruto did not pick calls or answer text messages from the Star to comment on the case.