Residents of Koreni village in Mkunumbi division, Lamu West, say they are more frightened of police and the military than al Shabaab. Police threaten to ‘finish’ the entire village if Shabaab attacks, they say, and they live in fear. Police apparently believe villagers are Shabaab sympathisers and may aid and shelter militants and hide their weapons. Villagers say they are innocent and have no links to the group. On August 2, police raided the village, dragged men, women and children out of their homes and searched for militants and weapons. They found nothing. Milihoi, a hotspot for al Shabaab attacks and ambushes, is on the Lamu-Mpeketoni route, 8km from Koreni village. On July 13, Milihoi hit the headlines after militants waylaid and took hostage Housing PS Mariam El Maawy and five other occupants of her vehicle. They included her personal bodyguards and her nephew. Only the PS survived. IPOA silent on threat reports The villagers accuse IPOA of failing to take action, although they reported the threats from security agencies. Speaking in Koreni yesterday, residents said it was unfair for security agencies to target them when they have no control and knowledge of how the Shabaab militants operate. The villagers, the majority of whom are herders, said they have not felt safe since the security officers directly threatened them. They said they always wonder what will become of them if the militants strike again. During the police raid on the village on August 2, residents were also arrested, including former chief Muhumed Kalmey. He is also a Nyumba Kumi neighbourhood watch elder. They were held at the Mpeketoni police station for several hours, interrogated, then released. Kalmey said they had written to IPOA over the detention but nothing has been done, though the authority promised to follow up. Victimised “What we are facing from police is very unfair. They drag us from our houses and search them by force. They say they are looking for Shabaab or weapons. They say we are suspects. Worse, they told us we would face the music if al Shabaab ever attacks Milihoi again. “For God’s sake, how are we responsible if al Shabaab attacks Milihoi, or elsewhere? All we ask is that they don’t victimise us as they fight the militants who are equally our enemies. We are peace lovers but they treat us as though we are the enemy,” Kalmey said. Musa Gula said they are more scared of police and military than Shabaab. “The police should stop targeting and harassing us anytime they feel like it. They make many people who have crucial information hide and withhold it, since when you tell the police, you become their number-one suspect. We need to work together.” County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said residents should not feel victimised, but cooperate with security agents to defeat al Shabaab. He said all searches should be done following the law. If anyone is victimised or any searches are done unlawfully, residents should report to his office, Kitiyo said.