Two new songs — composed and recorded in one night — in Bomet praising Deputy President William Ruto have opened a new front in the fight for the hearts and unity of the Kalenjin. “Thank you our brave hero, who looks out for us, beyond our land. Pass out regards to Uhuru [Kenyatta],” one of the untitled songs, performed by an all-women band, goes. “Samoei, raise your mantle high and lead the way,” the other song goes, referring to the Deputy President by his middle name. “We are from Bomet and we love you William. We belong with you in Jubilee.” The songs were specifically produced to welcome DP Ruto, who was visiting Bomet — the home of his political nemesis, Governor Isaac Rutto of the opposition Chama Cha Mashinani — on 1 April. When the group performed live as the DP arrived, crowds went hysterical. When he rose to speak, he seemed pleasantly shocked by the energy and sweaty animation of the thousands who turned up for the rally. It is easy to dismiss the songs, being distributed on WhatsApp and being played in Jubilee political rallies, as the latest collection of artistic sycophancy. After all, over the years, artistes have been signing in praise of politicians! However, among the Kalenjin people, traditional songs performed by women have tended to evoke strong emotional responses, and often succeed in rallying the community. Women would sing in praise of warriors setting out for an expedition and welcome them back home. “When women sing in praise of men in a cultural manner, they directly speak to the heart,” prominent historian Peter Chemaswet told me. “In singing and asking the men to be brave and lead, the women are bypassing contemporary political differences to rally the community for the sake of a cause,” Chemaswet said. Certainly, for a community that appreciates music, it can be misleading to base the analysis of a key political player on two songs. However, a very telling indication that the songs are making an impact is the fact that aspirants who were seeking nomination in Jubilee have been playing it in their rallies. From travelling across the Rift Valley in recent weeks, a number of observers point out that Ruto is making major strides in cementing his support base within his Kalenjin community.  NOMINATION MESS The recent Jubilee Party nomination chaos, which later resulted in the rescheduling of the exercise, offered the DP an opportunity to exhibit his near legendary abilities in political mobilisation and organisation. Acrimony and anger greeted the party’s decision to supply less than half of the ballot papers, resulting in the collapse of the process, when a huge turnout was registered. After crisis talks led by President Uhuru, a repeat was sanctioned. From last Sunday, the DP has largely camped at JP headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi, — and directed the new exercise, while maintaining unusual silence. The recrimination that often characterises party nominations was largely lacking, as the exercise passed off peacefully, in most regions. Many have applauded Ruto for taking charge of the process and criticised the the Jubilee Secretariat, led by party secretary general Raphael Tuju, for spectacular failure. “For some of us, who have undergone nominations in the past, this was the most democratic,” former MP Julius Kones, who lost the Jubilee primary race in Bomet, said. “Despite some issues and challenges, I want to believe the will of the majority was expressed though this nomination process,” he added. Kones pledged to campaign for Jubilee, and support the party’s governor candidate and Sotik MP Joyce Laboso, another key ally of the DP. In overseeing the primaries, the DP has managed to prevent a serious fallout within the party. There will be his opponents who would wonder why he did not step in before the party executives bungled the first vote. They will volunteer that it was a plan to let the Secretariat fail first so he could save the day and boost his national profile.  BUILDING ALLIANCES And talking of a national support base, the DP has increasingly reached out to various parts of the country, cultivating a political network. His first serious attempt at the presidency will begin in earnest as soon as the August election is out of the way, especially if Jubilee is reelected. His tone of politics in the Rift Valley has been focussing on cementing loyalties and promoting national patriotism. At a recent rally in Eldortet, he warned Kalenjin politicians against dividing the community along the sub-tribes. “I do not want to hear anybody asking for votes saying he is a Nandi, Marakwet, Keiyo or any other community. I will not allow that and the electorate are at liberty to elect any aspirant they deem fit. As the Kalenjin nation, we are one family,” he was quoted saying.Since the last election, Ruto has spent a lot of time reaching out to communities in the Coast, North parts and in Western Kenya, in an attempt to build alliances. At the same time, he has been keen on ensuring that any dissent at home is quashed.In Bomet county, for example, where incumbent Rutto rebelled and joined NASA with his CCM party, Ruto is keen to ensure Laboso is elected governor. “I want to assure him [Governor Rutto] that the day of reckoning will be on August 8, when the country goes to the polls,” the DP said on April 1. In the past, the governor has argued that the DP is seeking to suffocate political dissent in the Rift Valley. Though that maybe true, Ruto’s main intention is to unite his Kalenjin support base, by politically isolating rivals in this election. The campaign to install his allies has, however, come at a high price in some instances. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago accused the DP of favouring businessman Ezekiel Bundotich, aka Buzeki, who lost in the Jubilee primaries. It is, however, unlikely that Mandago, who is now expected to be reelected in August, will oppose Ruto. Meanwhile, the DP reportedly preferred an election, rather than a political deal, to choose Jubilee’s governor candidate for Nairobi. It was widely believed that Senator Mike Sonko would win the nomination against Peter Kenneth, whose bid is seen by the DP’s allies as a scheme by Central Kenya power brokers to seek the presidency in 2022. There are deep doubts in parts of the Rift Valley whether the Mt Kenya region will back Ruto’s presidential bid.  2022 PRESIDENTIAL BID By taking charge of the Jubilee nomination exercise, the DP confirmed widely held view that its formation — through a merger of 12 other parties — was his 2022 game plan. Ruto needed to bring together various parties to boost his 2022 presidential bid. Having taken charge of the nominations could mean the Deputy President will henceforth begin to have a firm grip on the party’s dynamics and organs. He could use this position to place allies in key regions. His 2022 race may have just begun.       