Big-ticket investors, including some of the top lenders in Africa, have lined up to acquire Chase Bank as the troubled medium-sized lender marks a year in receivership. The Central Bank of Kenya governor Patrick Njoroge reached a decision to place the bank under a year-long receivership at about 4am on April 7, 2016. This followed unsuccessful, lengthy overnight meeting with key shareholders who failed to raise undisclosed amount of money to keep the bank afloat following massive panic withdrawals. &ldquo;At 4am, I became disappointed because nothing was working,&rdquo; a seemingly dejected Njoroge, who had spent the night at the CBK headquarters, told a press conference on the morning the lender was placed under receivership. &ldquo;It was not a question of disagreement. The issue was who was going to bring in the money.&rdquo; The CBK and Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation &ndash; Chase&rsquo;s receiver manager &ndash; Thursday last week asked investors interested in Chase Bank to place their bids, in process which closes on April 21. The two also extended Chase's receivership for six months from today.A source privy to the ongoings said there has been strong interest from foreign and local investors. Some of the giant banks said to be leading the chase for a stake in the lender include the Rand Merchant Bank of South Africa and Morocco&rsquo;s leading lender, Attijariwafa Bank. A top politician in Jubilee administration is also said to be interested in buying the bank through a partnership whose details remains scanty. The strong interest in Chase may not come as a surprise as the lender was prior to its shock collapse popular with investment groups &ndash;who are good in mobilising savings. When the CBK and KDIC were looking for a distress manager to re-open Chase, for example, there were nine bids &ndash; six from local investors, two foreign and one from Chase Bank shareholders. KCB was chosen to re-open and manage the 62-branch Chase on behalf of the KDIC in a deal sealed on April 20, 2016. KCB re-opened Chase Bank on April 27, allowing depositors for 167,290 accounts, equivalent to 97 per cent of the total accounts or six per cent of the total deposits value, to access up to Sh1 million cash. Institutional depositors, including county governments, investment groups, pension funds and private firms like Kenya Tea Development Agency, which had more than Sh1 million in deposits still have their cash locked up in the bank. KCB CEO Joshua Oigara last August said the giant lender's work at Chase was complete. He said KCB was not looking to acquire the bank, saying this will raise conflict of interest questions.That paved the way for the sale of the lender. In selecting Chase&rsquo;s suitor, the CBK said last week it will be &ldquo;mindful of seeking to preserve and develop a sound and innovative banking system in Kenya&rdquo;.The massive run on the Chase Bank's deposits, leading to its collapse, was fuelled by a social media campaign after external auditors, Deloitte East Africa, issued a qualified opinion on the bank's books for financial year ended December 2015 &ndash; meaning the management gave scanty details and did not adhere to financial reporting standards.The bank's problems were largely related to Sh16.6 billion "problematic" insider loans whose chances of recovery were doubtful at the time. The unsecured loans comprised Sh8.7 billion suspicious loans, Sh8.7 billion loans to companies owned or related to some directors and Sh1 billion personal loans to some directors. The April 7 shock closure of Chase Bank &ndash; which was popular with micro- and small-sized enterprises and investment groups (chamas) &ndash; hit the banking industry hard, leading to &ldquo;flight to safety&rdquo; where depositors shifted cash to large from smaller lenders. About 33 banks reportedly experienced massive panic withdrawals after Chase was placed under receivership, after Imperial (October 13, 2015) and Dubai Bank (August 14, 2015).That prompted the CBK to open a cash window for microfinance and commercial lenders that had been hit by what Njoroge termed as &ldquo;an aggressive run&rdquo; on small banks.