WHY did ODM appoint Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho (pictured) to take charge of its Nairobi nominations on Sunday? Word has it that his Nairobi counterpart Evans Kidero had his own list of preferred aspirants, especially MCAs, and had plotted to influence the county’s elections board. Corridors has been told that an MCA aspirant defected on Monday after learning that Kidero was interfering with the process by backing a candidate from his tribe. This could be among reasons ODM’s National Elections Board resolved to disband the Nairobi Elections Board and appoint deputy party leader Joho to oversee the exercise. Kidero early this month met all aspirants at Nyayo Stadium and assured them of free and fair nominations.  A Jubilee honcho from Central Kenya is a happy man, following the defeat of Emmanuel Talam, DP William Ruto’s aide, in the Jubilee primaries for Nandi Hills constituency. The former MP and powerful political broker was overheard chiding the DP that he may well have indirectly pushed Talam out of power by plunging him into the uncharted political waters. “He fried Talam badly, I think he wants him out of his inner circle, the man has learnt a bitter lesson now,  after bragging for too long,” the former lawmaker told his colleagues at a Nairobi hotel.  MALINDI MP Willy Mtengo is likely to run as an independent. The first-time ODM legislator, who was elected in a by-election in March 2016, was spotted on Wednesday in the offices of the Registrar of Political Parties. Word has it that he was must have resigned from Raila Odinga’s party following his recent remarks he may support a Jubilee candidate in August to trounce his rival. Mtengo was last week whitewashed by Kilifi woman representative Aisha Jumwa forcing him to announce that he will run as an independent candidate or join Jubilee candidate Phillip Charo.  NOMINATIONS results for winning and losing candidates have left many people in shock. Some are wondering how aspirants no one ever thought can defeat governors have indeed floored them - badly. For instance, news about Nandi County youthful Senator Stephen Sang defeating Governor Cleophas Lagat, who could not even feature among top three winners. Almost everyone, including media, didn’t take the sociable and ever-smiling Sang seriously when he declared his interest in the seat. Meanwhile, news that the outspoken National Assembly minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo was trounced for the Gem seat caught many people by surprise. Midiwo has remained among top debaters in the House and the ultimate solution to silencing the no-nonsense Jubilee Majority Leader Aden Duale when he criticises the opposition. Midiwo seems to have impressed so many people that one of his supporters posted on Facebook asking ODM to ensure he is nominated to keep the House alive.