The IEBC has told political parties it is the only agency allowed to count, tally, collate, announce and declare election results.IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati while reacting to NASA&rsquo;s insistence on a parallel tallying centre said the commission is ready to deliver a credible election.In a statement to newsrooms, Chebukati assured Kenyans that the commission will make every effort to ensure the outcome of the election reflects the will of the people.&ldquo;We invite all actors to review the results management framework. By setting up the new integrated election management system, the commission shall guarantee greater transparency, accountability and auditability of the results,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Other actors, including political parties, shall have access to the results within the framework established by the commission.&rdquo;Chebukati said the exhibition of the Kenya Integrated Elections Management System will give the public a glimpse into the improvements in election management that come with new technology. &ldquo;We encourage all players to allow the commission to execute its mandate as set out in law. The commission reiterates its commitment to a free, fair and credible election,&rdquo; he said.But former TNA secretary general Onyango Oloo told off Jubilee leaders opposed to NASA&rsquo;s plan, saying nothing will block them from having a parallel tallying centre.&ldquo;In 2013, when I was the TNA secretary general, we had our own tallying centre to monitor our votes. There is nothing wrong for the opposition to have a tallying centre, unless Jubilee has sinister motive during the polls,&rdquo; he said.Oloo, who defected from Jubilee to ODM and is seeking the Kisumu Central MP seat, said relaying own results is part of efforts to prevent rigging.On Sunday, ODM leader Raila Odinga announced that NASA will do its own counting and release the results after the August poll.Raila said there is no room for President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee Party to rig the elections &ldquo;like they did in 2013&rdquo;. He said every polling centre will have a committee of 50 people.&ldquo;On that day, people will come out to adopt polling stations,&rdquo; Raila said.Last week, NASA said it will set up a parallel tallying centre for the August 8 poll results. It said the centre will stop the Jubilee administration from rigging. &ldquo;This time, we&rsquo;ll have our tallying centre,&rdquo; Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said.ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said, &ldquo;As things stand, we know the electoral agency [IEBC] is creating the ground for a constitutional crisis. We also know Jubilee is working closely with &ldquo;them&rdquo; (Jubilee) so Kenyans can vote manually.&rdquo;While in Malindi, a week ago, Jubilee Party leaders dismissed NASA&rsquo;s proposal to set up a parallel tallying centre.Led by National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale, three CSs, Tana River Governor Hussein Dado and more than 10 MPs and senators allied to JP, the leaders said there cannot be another tallying centre, except the IEBC&rsquo;s. &ldquo;The tallying centre by NASA shall not be recognised. The only one accepted is that of the IEBC,&rdquo; Duale said.The move to have an alternative tallying centre has been rejected by the government and NASA told to respect the Constitution.State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said the Constitution mandates only the IEBC to run the election. &ldquo;We continue to note opposition attacks on the IEBC and other constitutionally mandated institutions that are just trying to do their job. To undermine a pivotal institution with the mandate to deliver free, fair and credible elections is to undermine the country,&rdquo; Esipisu said.