Four counties in Nyanza will hold primaries on Monday  with stakes high in governor and parliamentary posts. Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya are ODM strongholds, considering the party leader Raila Odinga comes from the region. Governors seeking reelection include  Jack Ranguma (Kisumu), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Okoth Obado (Migori) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya). They are facing stiff competition from their rivals, and had even sought direct tickets. “You voted for us a few years ago, but our opponents want to unseat us after such a short duration. We are not wrong to ask for direct tickets to enable us complete projects we initiated,” said Rasanga at a function in Homa Bay. The governors were elected on ODM ticket except Obado who ran on PDP. He has, however, defected to ODM. In Homa Bay, a fierce political battle is expected  between Awiti and two opponents; Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and ex-NIS accountant  Sammy Wakiaga. Wakiaga is campaigning with a helicopter. “This helps in reaching many residents faster,” he said. Cosmas Kanyadudi and Enosh Bolo also want to be governors. Other hotly-contested posts in Homa Bay are Suba South MP and senator seats. Suba South MP and ODM national chairman John Mbadi faces a stiff competition from former PM Raila Odinga Chief of Staff Caroli Omondi. Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’ is under pressure to retain the seat. In Migori, Obado will be in a neck and neck race with former Energy Minister Ochillo Ayacko. Stiff parliamentary races are expected in Suna East where area MP Junet Mohamed will run against  former Migori MP John Pesa. In Kisumu, Ranguma will compete with  county senator Anyang’ Nyong’o, while Rasanga will battle it out with Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo in Siaya. In Rongo parilamentary seat, incumbent Dalmus Otieno will face off with his longtime rival Paul Abuor, while in Awendo constituency MP Jared K’Opiyo will square it out with businessman Walter Kirawa. Kisumu Central constituency has attracted serious contenders where former TNA secretary general Onyango Oloo wants to unseat Ken Obura. Businessman William Oduol and former PS for Regional Development Carey Orege are also seeking the Siaya governor seat.       