Opposition leader Raila Odinga has termed 'shameful' the World Bank projection of Kenya's GDP growth.The World Bank said Kenya&rsquo;s GDP growth is projected to decelerate to 5.5 per cent, a 0.5 percentage point mark down from the 2016 forecast.&ldquo;Kenya is currently facing headwinds that are likely to dampen GDP growth in 2017," the bank said in the Kenya Economic Update report on Wednesday.World Bank Country Director for Kenya Diarietou Gaye said the dampening of the GDP was due to the ongoing drought that has led to crop failure, dying herds of livestock, and increased food insecurity.More on this: World Bank cuts Kenya growth forecast as drought takes toll on economy"Shameful. We must do better next year. In a region experiencing 2+ civil wars, we must become a nation that is compared to the BEST in the world, we must restore our glory," Raila said via twitter on Wednesday.Raila's post attracted criticism from his followers who attacked the world bank and at the same time attacking the government."Baba ... they are blaming the weather!! The weather?! Kenya is being mismanaged ... they shouldn't blame the weather," Peter Mwang'ombe&rlm; said.James Attika&rlm; said, "We will use this index against Jubilee. They promised double digit economy. Inflation is risen. Cost of living unbearable to Kenyans."In January 2017, World Bank upheld Kenya&rsquo;s growth projection for this year at six per cent, largely unchanged from an estimated 5.9 per cent in 2016.Read: World Bank upholds Kenya&rsquo;s 2017 growth outlook at 6%This comes after local firms cut the growth outlook for this year to below six per cent, citing slower private sector credit growth. Price pressures as a result of failed rains in the last quarter of 2016 is also likely to dampen growth because the economy is agriculturally-driven, some research analysts have forecast.Analysts at Stanbic Bank downgraded this year&rsquo;s projection to 5.4 from 5.8 per cent, while those at Cytonn Investments on Monday said they see a 5.4 to 5.7 per cent expansion.The country&rsquo;s growth is largely supported by ongoing infrastructure development, recovering tourism and continued growth of the construction sector.Also read: World Bank trims Kenya's 2015-16 growth forecast over weakening shilling