It will be a repeat of Nairobi Region finals in the national secondary school games boys&rsquo; hockey semi-final as newcomers Dr. Ribeiro Parklands meet Upper Hill at State House Girls, today.Bragging rights will be at stake as Upper Hill, who were dethroned as the Nairobi regional champions, seek to revenge against Erick Nyamweya&rsquo;s side who are seeking to dominate their adversaries.In the regional finals, Dr. Ribeiro Parklands defeated Upper Hill 3-2 to bag the title for the first time.Though Dr. Ribeiro Parklands lost their final group fixture 1-3 to Musingu yesterday, they still led Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; with six points after beating the 1996 winners Kisumu Day to second place on a superior goal difference of three.To attract Dr. Ribeiro in the semis, Upper Hill finished second to former holders St. Anthony&rsquo;s Kitale on goal difference of five. To seal a place in the last four, Upper Hill thwarted Mang&rsquo;u High&rsquo;s efforts to make the semis cut with a 1-0 win.St. Anthony&rsquo;s Kitale were on a goal-scoring spree against Meru High, whom they beat 5-0 in their last Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; tie. Coached by 2015 Soya Coach of the Year Kevin Lugalia, St. Anthony&rsquo;s squared it out with Kisumu Day in the second semi-final match.&ldquo;There is no favourite in this championships. The first and second placed teams in each pool were separated by goal difference so it is any one&rsquo;s trophy. We will take advantage of the chances we get and the earlier the better for us,&rdquo; said Lugalia.In the girls&rsquo; category, Sinyolo romped into the semis with 100 per cent win in the preliminaries after they defeated Bura Girls 4-0. Maurine Owiti sounded the board twice as her twin sister Alice Owiti and Debra Atieno added one each with no response from the coastal side.Moi Girls Nairobi held 2010 winners Kerugoya to a 2-2 draw, knocking them out of the title race. St. Joseph&rsquo;s Kibwezi lost to Parklands Arya 0-1 and though St. Joseph&rsquo;s Girls, Kitale hit St. Cecilia Girls Misikhu, both outfits cruised to the semis as pool winners and runners up. Sinyolo face St. Cecilia Girls Misikhu while St. Joseph&rsquo;s Girls Kitale play Moi Girls Nairobi in the semi finals.