Muansia Lenjoye, the Kajiado girl with a tumour in her mouth, is responding well to treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital.The Star published her moving story &mdash; about her life-threatening cancerous growth, distressing photo and family&rsquo;s appeal for help &mdash; prompting the government to come to her rescue.The family had no money to afford her treatment and medication. She was weak as she only fed on milk. Muansia has been in great pain.Yesterday, oral and cranio-maxillofacial surgeon Edwin Rono said Muansia is making good progress and they will soon conduct a biopsy to establish the type of cancer she suffers from.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m very happy with the progress the girl is making. The team at KNH was with her from the time she was admitted to midnight trying to ensure she gets the best service,&rdquo; he said.Her mother Siplina Lenjoye was lost for words. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m thankful to the management of KNH and the government for taking care of my daughter&rsquo;s health. No words can describe how I feel right now,&rdquo; she said. A biopsy was to be done yesterday but the doctors were waiting for her health to improve as she was still weak.&ldquo;She was very pale and had lost a lot of weight. She was not feeding properly,&rdquo; Rono said.&ldquo;Our main aim now is to ensure her nutrition improves and she has enough blood in her body so we can conduct other tests on her. This will also guide us on our next stage and how we can restore her life.&rdquo;A CT scan done yesterday showed Mwosia has an extensive tumour. It has deformed her face. The scan revealed that she is anaemic.The tumour, which occupies about 11 centimetres of her face, has destroyed her upper left jaw and extended to her left eye.Chest X-ray, abdominal and neck ultrasounds showed the growth has not spread to these parts.Before she was admitted to KNH, Muansia had been to three hospitals. But the condition was still on a downward spiral.She was operated on in Tanzania through the help of a well-wisher, but the tumour spread again. Her father John Lenjoye&rsquo;s wish was that his daughter be admitted to KNH or another quality medical facility. &ldquo;At least our prayers have been heard by God. We&rsquo;re happy the government has agreed to help us treat our firstborn daughter,&rdquo; he said on Thursday.