Having spent almost my entire lifetime in Kenya &mdash; slightly over forty years&mdash; I have followed closely the development and politics in the nation, and can comment on them. I cannot fail to notice that one of our major setbacks as a nation is negative ethnicity and tribalism. As a historian, I find this quite interesting and disturbing, in view of the fact that there are other countries in Africa such as Nigeria that have over 400 ethnic and tribal groupings, compared to ours 43.At the moment, the problem cuts across every section of the nation: From business to the Church, government to NGOs, social associations to neighborhoods. It is so sick that people are viewed and related to based on their tribal affiliation. I find this very retrogressive. On the political scene, I have engaged some of my friends on issues such as this, only to find out that even the so-called educated and enlightened Kenyans are victims of this cancer that is eating up this country. It will definitely destroy us if it is not addressed seriously. It is likely that you cannot make much progress in a country where you are judged and disadvantaged based on your tribe. We are in a system where some people are not interested in your ability to deliver but in the tribe you belong.Kenya, with all her immense resources, cannot fully step into her place in the world economy until we fully embrace each other regardless of tribal or ethnic background. It is time that Kenyan think in terms of innate abilities and capabilities, and not where one hails from. As we draw close to the elections, we will hear more tribal accusations and counter accusations. For instance, the Luo will accuse the Kikuyu of loving money and craftiness; the Kikuyu will accuse the Luo of arrogance, the Kambas will wrongly be stereotyped to be witches. Such accusations bounce back and forth and it sickens.In opposition politics, we are also seeing the principals playing the tribal card in selecting their August 8 lineup, and sharing the national cake through various positions on behalf of their communities.It is not different in the Jubilee Party, which is largely seen, and severally accused of being composed of two communities, from which UhuRuto come from.The truth is that many of us have been warped by the years of bad politics. But the main question is, for how long shall we continue to allow ethnicity to be the yardstick for measuring productivity and suitability?I have been watching the political scene in the recent past and I cannot but muse over the evil that the so-called aspirants and leaders are engaged in &mdash; dividing the people along ethnic lines to score a political point.It is childish and evil that instead of leaders giving the nation a sense of belonging and oneness, especially around the election period, they have opted to campaign on the ethnic plat form: The &ldquo;us versus them&rdquo; politics.It is common knowledge that a Kikuyu President will not govern his community only, neither will a Luo.How long will we continue to destroy the future of this great nation because of selfish power struggles?African nations spend a lot of time and resources to rebuild national unity, only to destroy the little achievements during elections. This is being penny wise, pound foolish. We destroy the ethnic esteem and pride just to clinch power only to expect cooperation from the same people we have isolated. Our poiitics has in no doubt been of betrayal and based on tribalism, not on principles. We have a right to align with whosoever irrespective of tribe. It is time the people are educated on this for the nation to move forward.Every fibre of the nation smells tribe. A Luo pastor attracts a Luo congregation, so do Kikuyu, Luhya and Kamba preachers, among others. At times, one gets confused about our national language when you enter a government office.I believe this problem was not created in a day and we should not expect to resolve it overnight. But my plea is that the present crop of leaders and the government will begin to put measures in place for a genuine national identity. Our churches should have a rethink. The young generation should become revolutionary on this, and everyone should embrace it for a change.We must break the strong and negative tribal and ethnic forces in leadership. Before a nation disintegrates, tribal revolutions always begin to look appealing. At the moment, there are those trying to hold on to the so called political power, believing that is all they have, while the other tribes are tired of isolation, whether real or perceived.Some Kenyans suggest a compromise opposition candidate in this election to forestall a possible breakaway of certain communities. But I believe we need to start emphasizing on good governance. Not tribe.Some groups are now forming on the premise of community policing. From the feeler, it is believed they are more political than they are security oriented. How far this is from the truth I can&rsquo;t tell. But I can surely tell such groups can eventually become political, tribal or terrorist movements. If not controlled, they will eventually become the tools of the ruling elite and their associates, to push their so-called political agenda of political emancipation: Kenyans should better watch this.I must emphasise that this piece is not in support of any tribe or political group. It is a simple contribution to national orientation. Let us together create a strong awareness for a nation where no one is considered disadvantaged because of ethnic or tribal heritage.