Jubilee will scrap primaries &mdash; members won&rsquo;t vote &mdash; and instead aim for consensus in Kisii and Nyamira counties to avert post-nomination chaos and fallout.There were reports JP will rescheduled nominations from Friday to next week to allow for consensus.National Elections Board member Samuel Nyangeso yesterday told the Star the party has decided to adopt consensus in contests where hopefuls support the idea.Those who pull out are said to have been promised state appointments and nomination to county assemblies, the National Assembly or the East African Legislative Assembly.Nyangeso said consensus will ensure they remain united as they campaign for Jubilee and President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection. The region is perceived to be leaning toward the National Super Alliance.Jubilee has been wooing residents. But NASA county leaders have dismissed its campaigns as inconsequential, saying it has made no inroads.By yesterday, consensus-building was frantically underway, with attempts to dissuade some aspirants to pull out or run on the tickets of Jubilee affiliate parties.party dangles carrotsReacting to reported dangled carrots and state appointments, Nyangeso said, &ldquo;The secretariat and the NEB will issue a statement. I&rsquo;m not the spokesman.&rdquo;Nyamira Senate aspirant Hellen Makone yesterday said she was in talks with East Africa Legislative Assembly MP Joseph Kiangoi and Timothy Rioba to have one of them get direct nomination.&ldquo;Discussions are ongoing. If we agree, we shall definitely communicate to you,&rdquo; she told the Star in a telephone interview.Sources familiar with the negotiations told the Star that Makone and Rioba have been promised nomination to the Nyamira county assembly if they step down in favour of Kiangoi.Kiangoi, an advocate, is a former North Mugirango-Borabu MP. He also served as an assistant minister.Governor hopeful Charles Mochama, however, said he will seek the JP ticket for the Nyamira top job, facing off with former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati.This came after reports emerged that he had stepped down for Nyambati. Mochama dismissed the report. Another governor aspirant Erneo Nyakiba defected to the People&rsquo;s Development Party, a Jubilee-friendly outfit.&ldquo;I quit the Jubilee Party because a lot of issues emerged. I settled in a friendly party,&rdquo; he said, adding he is ready to face those nominated by other parties at the ballot on August 8.direct nominationsThe Jubilee Party has given direct tickets to MP aspirants &mdash; Nyamira county assembly speaker Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) and lawyer Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba).In Borabu, Patrick Osero will face Enock Nyakeri. In West Mugirango, lawyer Charles Ongoto will face Kebbedy Achoki if consensus fails.In Kisii county, Senate aspirant Charles Nyachae, Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tong&rsquo;i, Bobasi&rsquo;s Stephen Manoti and Bomachoge Borabu lawmaker Joel Onyancha have been given direct nominations.Nyaribari Masaba hopeful Kennedy Nyairo also got a direct ticket.Senator Chris Obure, a governor hopeful, will battle Alfred Nyangweso tomorrow. Nyangweso has reportedly declined to step down for Obure.Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi has three rivals &mdash; Alfred Ndemo, Ibrahim Ndemo and Joseph Bogongo.Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari, who ditched ODM, is to contest the JP ticket against Kennedy Nyamweya. In South Mugirango, Rashid Miyonga and Vincent Marube will do battle.