Kenyan international Michael Chemos makes a comeback to the local scene tomorrow when he spearheads Kenya Defence Forces&rsquo; Ulinzi in the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league in Ndakaini, Murang&rsquo;a County.Chemos joins Ulinzi after six month stint with Al-Arabi Qatari. Chemos played for champions Kenya Prisons until last July when he left for professional stint in Doha, Qatar in September.The towering 6&rsquo;6ft hitter will join former national team captain Phillip Maiyo, who features for the soldiers during his off season abroad. Maiyo, a right hitter, plays for Halat Club in Lebanon. Team captain Sila Makiso, said Chemos and Maiyo (both of the same height), were register as KDF players during the transfer window and he is hopeful they will be instrumental in their weekend fixtures.KVF fixtures secretary, Ismail Chege, was unavailable to clarify the transfer status of the pair given their leagues abroad concluded after the Kenyan transfer period had ended. KDF face Co-op Bank and Nairobi Prisons tomorrow in the second legs of the league.&ldquo;Tough they are yet to join the team as of today (Wednesday), the two are in our camp and we are positive they will click with the rest of the players,&rdquo; indicated Makiso, adding: &ldquo;The two are good players and we hope they will be impact positively to our performance.&rdquo;In their last four encounters, Co-op Bank have won thrice while KDF have one victory. Co-op Bank tactician Geoffrey Omondi will be seeking to employ the services of players he rested during the first leg in Nyeri last month. But Omondi, also the KVF Coaches Commission chairman, was quick to indicate that only form and fitness will merit players to the team of 14.&ldquo;We have trained well for KDF and our head-to-head advantage over them not withstanding, we are positive to prevail. They have reinforced their squad but we will still put up a brave performance against them,&rdquo; said Omondi.Co-op Bank&rsquo;s Michael Njoroge hopes to return to action this weekend after a two-year ban by for &lsquo;gross misconduct&rsquo; in February 2016. His ban was reduced by half by the Sports Dispute Tribunal last year.Kenya Ports Authority are looking to rake in maximum six points when they meet Western Prisons and Administration Police tomorrow. Vihiga County play neighbours Western Prison and General Service Unit; AP play Mt. Kenya University in their second tie as Prisons Nairobi meet Mt. Kenya University.Hosts Nairobi Water, tutored by John Mwaniki, are due to face para-military side GSU and Mombasa Prisons while Forest Rangers square it out with Prisons Mombasa and Prisons Kenya, who will also meet former champions GSU. In the women&rsquo;s show, champs Kenya Pipeline will settle scores will arch rivals Kenya Prisons and Mt. Kenya University, whereas Nairobi Water play Mt. Kenya University and Kenya Commercial Bank.