National Assembly minority leader Francis&nbsp; Nyenze &nbsp;has said the NASA line up announced on Thursday is a raw deal for the people of Kamba. ODM leader Raila Odinga was named as the National Super Alliance flag bearer.&nbsp;Raila will face off President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee with Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate. NASA brings together Raila,&nbsp;Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper),&nbsp; Musalia Mudavadi (Amani), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), and Isaac Rutto (CCM). But addressing the media on Friday, Nyenze said the coalition should have respected the MoU signed between Raila and Kalonzo in 2014 before naming Raila the flag bearer."In my own opinion the&nbsp; Kamba nation got a raw deal and we do not&nbsp;want anybody to take Kamba's for a ride," Nyenze said. Nyenze said "new people" were brought into the coalition to&nbsp;circumvent the whole process. "It would be a very difficult task to convince the Kamba nation to be the second fiddle in 2017," he said.He claimed that the committee tasked with selecting the NASA flag-bearer had selected Kalonzo up to the last minute."I was in the team and up to the last minute, Kalonzo was the flag bearer. How it changed we still do not know. We were all taken aback," he said. Nyenze said the Wiper party leader should talk to them before they take any other action. "W e need to talk and decide on a way forward. We cannot assume that our people will follow the instructions.T hey have to know why they should vote for NASA." he said. "If I don't fight for the Kamba nation who will?"&nbsp; Under the arrangement, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is proposed to take up the position of&nbsp;Premier Cabinet Secretary as earlier reported by The Star.This will be created after the election in the event of NASA victory.&nbsp;Under the Premier CS will be two powerful deputies of equal rank. &nbsp; Rutto&nbsp; will &nbsp;be in charge of the State Department of Devolution and Planning. The other deputy in charge of Public Service will go to Wetang&rsquo;ula of Ford Kenya party.Read:&nbsp;How Wetangula, Rutto made Raila the Nasa flagbearerThe announcement of the August 8 polls team was made at Uhuru Park on Thursday by Mudavadi.&nbsp; The principals have been under pressure to name the person who will battle it out with Uhuru.[VIDEO] Raila named NASA flag bearer, Kalonzo deputy in August poll line up