Dear Mr President,For the longest time, I&rsquo;ve perceived informal letters to be an intimate way of communication, especially when the writer has a high regard for you. It speaks volumes, yet the message gets delivered in a terse way. Also, I think letters are more appreciated these days because they&rsquo;re not as nondescript as an SMS because someone had to ponder to settle on this medium of communication. In any case, I could have just called, you know. But since I don&rsquo;t have access to your entourage, nitanyenyekea. Hoping you&rsquo;ll see this, and acknowledge the fact that my writing this letter is a sign of respect.It&rsquo;s about the 2007-08 post-election violence remark you made during your trip to Gusiiland.Yes, I really wanted to skip the pleasantries. Like how Jesus requires of me that I&rsquo;m supposed to shake someone&rsquo;s hand even though I want to reach for their throat and tear it apart when they get me overly upset. Because that&rsquo;s exactly what I am. Overly upset. I could hardly believe what I heard you say. It was as though I could never have imagined that scene and so, I did not know what to think, what to say or do. You used euphemisms such as &ldquo;kuwasha moto&rdquo; (lighting a fire) and it got me more worried because, like a spark that ignites a flame (no pun intended) you took me back to the life and times of the PEV.Let me succinctly describe how that brief rash wave of emotions was like at the time. I remembered how my uncle had to fly my aunt from Eldoret to Nairobi at a time when hired goons had been paid to vandalise and kill because, well sorry to say, she&rsquo;s a Kikuyu. I also remembered how we had to visit a close family friend at the Aga Khan Hospital because he was physically injured and traumatised. He died after a few days. The doctor said he was healing, but died from trauma. His two rental houses had been torched to the ground.Imagine how that rekindling must have been for the victims themselves.Two weeks later, I still don&rsquo;t know why you chose to open up healing wounds as a political gimmick.Actually, the wounds were not healing per se, they were still there only that they were being ignored. More like how one would ignore their ex-girlfriend without getting closure. They might be fine momentarily, but when they see them, it all comes back. They were &ldquo;fine&rdquo; in their ignorance, but not healed. The wounds are still fresh, the pain of contact so pure, so scalding: I&rsquo;m pretty sure you know this. But you chose the strategy either way. Maybe you decided to change tack. Maybe you wanted to stir some hearts for your good. What I&rsquo;m sure of is the cruelty in the form of blame.I remember my history and government teacher explaining to us that the President is a symbol of national unity, and it compelled me to check out the Constitution to confirm if that still holds. It does. Chapter 9, Article 131, 1(e) states that the President is a symbol of national unity while Article 131 2(d) says he should promote respect for the diversity of the people and communities of Kenya.In a nutshell, you are supposed to enhance national integration, cohesion and foster unity.The remarks you made in Kisii were insensitive and callous, oblivious to the state of the hearts of the voiceless victims. Oblivious to the fact that justice hasn&rsquo;t yet been served, a decade later.Sorry to say, it&rsquo;s as if you want us to revert to the kind of politics that led people to loot and kill based on tribe: The &ldquo;kuwasha moto&rdquo; politics. That is the kind of politics that makes us teeter on that boundary that divides indifference and a revolution. The one that limits our thinking and encourages our ignorance. The one that promotes neglect of common sense and catalyses moral decadence. The one that will get us back to vote based on tribe rather than character. The one that makes Kikuyu mothers prohibit their daughters from falling in love with Kisii men. The one that renders education useless, since our decisions will stem from unresolved hatred rather than logic and rationale.The role of education is enlightenment, sharing knowledge: It is to make one delve into critical thinking and problem solving. Intelligence plus character is the goal of true education.I fear this kind of &ldquo;kuwasha moto&rdquo; politics will go a long way in exposing even the elite to be vulnerable to the primitive thinking of hiring,vying,marrying, dining with someone based on tribe. The politics of this land was in the transition from being tribal-based to issue-based. I fear it will not take that long for that to be trashed.Mr President, I wish your campaign strategy would stem from reforms, policies, frameworks, culture, love, religious principles and issues that need be addressed. In a way that our culture would consider it a sin or immoral to engage in hate speech and incitement. I know you have the power to do this: To influence masses to fear God, because, as you have previously said in your speeches, God ordained you to be President in His permissive will. If only you choose to.Sir, we need to feel development and love for one another, not only because of the Thomas inside us, the part that needs to see to believe, but because your manifesto outlined economic prosperity and national cohesion as key performance indicators.I feel that it is upon you to, in the words of the Prophet Amos, &ldquo; To let justice roll on like a river, righteousness like a never-failing stream.&rdquo;Allow yourself to be used by God by submitting to Him. Acknowledge the sovereignty of God and His rule over this land, as stipulated in the preamble of our Constitution, &ldquo;Acknowledgement of the supremacy of the Almighty God of all creation.&rdquo;And we as Kenyans need to hold on to the words written by the Prophet Hosea, &ldquo;But you must return to your God; maintain love and wait for your God always. Because He reveals the deep things of darkness and brings utter darkness into the light.&rdquo;Martin Luther King Jnr was right in his saying that love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into a friend. Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.Preach love, encourage love. Help us to love. Show Kenya that amidst men with ill-intent, you stand out with a noble, genuine and sincere heart that seeks to serve and help us recover from our heart-break encounters. For the Lord loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones.Perhaps we will never be able to say it all, to clothe things in words, things that have long been naked, but we all know that reconciliation is long overdue.A genuine leader is not a searcher for consensus but a moulder of consensus.Regards,Bleeding mwananchiChege is a writer