Plenty of talent in hockey, basketball, rugby 15s and swimming will be showcased today as the Brookside Term One national games roll out at State House Girls and Nairobi School.The games, which run from today to Saturday has attracted teams from all the eight regions. With the Sh2m increase in the Brookside sponsorship (now Sh14m), the teams are set to have a superb experience during the games.&ldquo;Apart from the refreshments, we take great pride in nourishing young people&rsquo;s talents and help them grow for their benefit in the future.&rdquo;&ldquo;We have sponsored these games for many years and we are still committed to support Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association in the future,&rdquo; assured Oliver Mary, Brookside&rsquo;s director of marketing.John Temba, the director of ICT in the Ministry of Education emphasised the importance of co-curriculum and said the ongoing curriculum reforms have given sports and arts an equal measure to academics.&ldquo;We shall encourage quality education and that incorporates co-curriculum activities. Those who are talented in sports, arts and crafts all have a place in the society and we have to nurture them from a young age,&rdquo; said Temba.Meanwhile, Rift Valley champions St. Bridgit&rsquo;s are eyeing to better their previous performances by winning the top gong in this bonanza. The Kiminini-based school have finished second twice, third once and fourth five times in the nationals. They open the show against Nyamira Girls in pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; as Nairobi&rsquo;s Buruburu Girls face Senior Chief Ogle in the other.St. Bridgit&rsquo;s coach Alex Wasike is confident with the immense talent possessed by his charges and the intense preparations they&rsquo;ve had.&ldquo;The other pool has tough teams so as we play, we look to top our group and play second placed team in the other group. Today&rsquo;s fixture is one of the softest matches I have in the preliminaries and I have no doubts we will win. However, our game against Buruburu will be our biggest test. It is a fifty-fifty tie for us,&rdquo; said Wasike, who wants to guide St. Bridgit&rsquo;s to their premier title in the national championships.