AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia have raised concern over the unavailability of Nyayo and Kasarani Stadium for their Kenyan Premier League matches.The two sides with the biggest following in Kenyan football, said this has cost the them dearly in terms of revenue.The two venues are currently undergoing renovations, City Stadium have failed to meet standards while Camp Toyoyo was just recently and hurriedly approved to host Sofapaka and Homeboyz match last week.Leopards&rsquo; chairman Dan Mule said the continued lock-down at Nyayo and Kasarani has hit them hard financially.&ldquo;Having home games away from Nairobi doesn&rsquo;t make sense at all,&rdquo; said Mule. &ldquo;When we have our matches at Nyayo or Kasarani, the revenue from gate collections averages at about Sh700,000 but currently, we can hardly raise Sh300,000.&rdquo;Mule revealed they are having their biggest headache with the Nairobi derby fast approaching, where they host Gor Mahia on May 7.&ldquo;We are looking at Machakos and Mumias but the cost implications are going to carry the day,&rdquo; said Mule. &ldquo;We are more keen on Machakos or even Thika since Mumias can barely host the two sets of fans. It will also be difficult for our fans to travel there. It will cost at least Sh3000 for a fan to make the trip to Mumias. There is also the crowd trouble that usually happens in Mumias with our fans being targeted.&rdquo;For the team, he said, they will have to camp in Mumias for several days, which will also have cost implications.&ldquo;The government had promised to build stadia but none is forthcoming. City Stadium is also out of use due to the poor state of the artificial turf,&rdquo; observed Mule. &ldquo;Nairobi County government has really let us down. Other counties have really tried, including Embu, Machakos and Narok but Nairobi have failed to even rehabilitate City Stadium.&rdquo;His Gor Mahia counterpart Ambrose Rachier observed: &ldquo;Fans are no longer motivated to attend matches due to the distances and costs they will have to cover.&rdquo;&ldquo;It was also an observation I made during the hearing of the case (at the Sports Disputes Tribunal) on whether to increase the number of teams from 16 to 18. I felt we don&rsquo;t have capacity (venues) to host additional matches but this fell on deaf ears,&rdquo; added Rachier. &ldquo;The revenue has really plummeted and the earlier we return to Nairobi, the better.&rdquo;The two also regretted Supersport&rsquo;s announcement to terminate their contract with KPL. &ldquo;This will bring a lot of suffering to all the clubs, both economically and in image,&rdquo; said Rachier. &ldquo;The grants they offered were crucial for survival of clubs.&rdquo;Mule observed: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a big blow. They used to help market the players. They also offered grants to the clubs. We hope to get another league sponsor as soon as possible.&rdquo;He added that Leopards are hopeful of bagging another sponsor, going by the good results they have churned so far. Leopards are joint-second with Gor Mahia on 13 points, behind surprise leaders Posta Rangers.