Mogotio MP Hellen Sambili has rejected the results of the Jubilee primaries in Baringo county after she unsuccessfully contested.This comes even after Governor Benjamin Cheboi, Baringo Central MP Sammy Mwaita and woman representative Grace Kiptui conceded defeat.The four lost their bid to defend their seats on the Jubilee ticket on Monday.Sambili said she would have won had the exercise not been &ldquo;doctored&rdquo; by elections chairman Joel Koima, an ally of the Mogotio MP seat winner Daniel Tuitoek. She garnered 6,015 votes against Tuitoek&rsquo;s 11,994. &ldquo;Names of my supporters were missing in the register and my agents were blocked from voting. So I will not accept the announced results for Mogotio constituency,&rdquo; said Sambili in a press briefing in Mogotio town on Tuesday.She said she has filed her complaints at Jubilee Party headquarters and is awaiting feedback. But Sambili said her support for Jubilee remains intact. &ldquo;My blood still remains in Jubilee,&rdquo; she said.Cheboi, Mwaita and Kiptui conceded defeat at a press conference in Kabarnet town on Tuesday.&ldquo;In every competition, you always must expect a winner and a loser, so I stand here to congratulate my opponent Stanley Kiptis for winning the Jubilee nominations. I vow to support him through to the August election,&rdquo; Cheboi said.He said he will continue supporting Jubilee. Cheboi attributed his loss to improper structures, citing the decision that allowed voters to use IDs, leading to double voting. Cheboi got 21,388 votes against Kiptis&rsquo; 64, 589.Mwaita congratulated his competitor David Kipkerich, pledging to support him. He garnered 5,448 votes against Kipkerich&rsquo;s 12,341.Eldama-Ravine MP Moses Lessonet will seek reelection in August after he bagged 10,934 votes, beating his opponent Musa Sirma who got 9,478. Senator aspirant Simon Chelugui got 17,460 votes, with Sabina Jelagat coming second with 3,447, followed by Christine Ndoigo&rsquo;s 1,364 votes.By press time, the results for the Baringo North MP seat had not been announced, and aspirants were planning to file complaints at JP headquarters.