The topsy-turvy start to this year&rsquo;s SportPesa Premier League shows no signs of abating as record league winners Gor Mahia assumed the leadership mantle after four round of matches.Ze Maria&rsquo;s charges rocked by a dispute over unpaid bonuses last month, put all that behind them to edge Kakamega Homeboyz via a solitary effort from Rwandan marksman Medie Kagere. The win, K&rsquo;Ogalo&rsquo;s third in four matches, improved their tally to nine points&mdash;one more than their closest challenger Posta Rangers and two better than the rest of the top eight occupants. Posta too claimed three points, thanks to a 1-0 win over Western Stima, who despite the heady highs of beating off the current table toppers, find themselves in the bottom two. Kenyan international Geoffrey Kataka was on target for the Sammy Omollo&rsquo;s resurgent mailmen. Six teams are tied on seven points with Bandari in third, thanks to a superior goal difference despite being beaten 2-1 by seventh placed Ulinzi Stars, who have a game in hand. The loss was the dockers&rsquo; first in their four matches.Enos Ochieng scored the winner 15minutes from time after Noah Abich&rsquo;s penalty in first half stoppage time had cancelled out Geoffrey Kokoyo&rsquo;s early opener for thesoldiers.Chemelil Sugar are fourth after also handing AFC Leopards their first loss of the campaign following a 2-0 win. Veteran Hillary Echesa and John Mwita were on target for Juma Abdalla&rsquo;s side, who claimed their second win of the campaign and left Leopards reeling in sixth, behind Sofapka.Batoto Ba Mungu drew 2-2 with Tusker, who were without international striker Noah Wafula. Wafula lost his son and will be laid to rest today. Sony Sugar close out the top eight. Languishing at the bottom of the league standings are Zoo Kericho, who lost their fourth consecutive top flight match after being vanquished by ninth-placedThika United. Joel Tata was on target for the Thika side.Kariobangi Sharks finally got their first win in their debut in the Premier League as two goals from Bolton Omwenga and Patilla Omoto saw them leave Nzoia with all three points.The win moved Sharks off the bottom two and handed the much needed reprieve to coach William Muluya.For Nzoia United, the defeat was a reality check of some sorts as they are now winless in their three matches since surprising Tusker on the opening day of the campign. They are on four points in as many matches.