Oscar winner Lupita Nyong’o has endorsed her father’s bid for Kisumu governor in a passionate video message posted on Thursday. The actress said she looks forward to seeing Kisumu grow into a centre of excellence, a feat she said Anyang' Nyang'o had the capacity to achieve. “All my life I have witnessed your unwavering passion for cultivating a better future for Kenya…even when it was a threat to your life but you have never given up and you continue to push for change and development,” she said. Lupita regretted that she will not be there to personally support the Kisumu Senator but she fully supported his bid for the county’s top job. The 12 Years a Slave and Queen of Katwe star said her absence was due to the fact that she was working on a new movie. She reminisced on her childhood, painting Nyong'o as a development conscience-leader since his formative political days as an MP to the present day. “I have witnessed the developments, the electricity spreading, schools being built, roads being constructed and medical centres being erected, and you had a lot to do with that,” she said. Lupita said she was proud of identifying herself with Kisumu even though most of her life was spent in Nairobi with only occasional visits to the lakeside city. She said it was for that reason that she wanted the best for the city which she believed her professor dad was the best person to achieve. “I know for certain that Kisumu County will be a better place and leap into the future with you steering it,” said the Oscar winner. Lupita said that she was even more excited that with her father as governor, the arts industry would prosper in the county and be a model city to other counties by promoting young talents. “I want Kisumu to shine in the world as much as you do and I for one I will be excited that with you as governor, Kisumu can become a centre of excellence for the arts, because you love the arts and culture,” she said. And as if to replicate her “your dreams are valid” statement at the Oscars, Lupita said, “You have dreamt for a brighter future for Kisumu County, may you get the opportunity to see that dream bear fruit. May God bless you daddy, you are a winner.” Nyong'o is expected to battle it out with incumbent Jack Ranguma for the ODM ticket. ODM will be holding primaries in Kisumu on Monday. Read:Senators back Nyong'o bid to oust Ranguma as Kisumu governor