Narok Governor aspirant Joseph Tiampati has picked the former chief officer for labour and disaster management William Semeiyoi as his running mate. Tiampati is running on the  ODM ticket. He said he had delayed naming his running mate because he was consulting with various players. Tiampati said after negotiations, they settled on Semeiyoi, who comes from Transmara. Addressing the press in Narok town on Wednesday, Tiampati said his running mate has a wealth of experience in banking and administration that will help transform the county, once elected. The governor aspirant was with ODM national vice chairperson Christine Lemein and Narok woman representative Rebecca Tonkei who is seeking the ODM ticket. “I was not the one who decided on the running mate. There was a committee tasked with the job and settled on the former county staff. So I promised to work with him closely so that we can we secure the win in the August polls,” Tiampati said. The former ICT permanent secretary  pledged to protect the interests of all tribes and assured his administration will be fair to all. “Narok is cosmopolitan city that incorporates all tribes and races. The leadership should be all inclusive to ensure free interaction, peace and unity,” Tiampati said. On his part, Semeiyoi said he will campaign intensely for Tiampati to ensure he clinches the seat. The running mate said Tiampati has the capability to manage the county, given the experience he gained when working in the public sector. He said he decided to join ODM because it is a winning team, and expressed confidence they will trounce Governor Samuel Tunai. “I come to ODM with experience, having served in Tunai’s administration. I am ready to transform this county because the current leadership has failed the people of Narok county by not initiating development projects,” Semeiyoi said. Lemein said it boosts the party’s confidence when a person ditches the ruling government in favour of ODM. She said she believes the team will win in the August 8 general election. Tiampati will face off with Tunai, who is running on the Jubilee Party, and Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu, on Governor Isaack Rutto’s Chama Cha Mashinani party. Last year in September, Tunai opened the Narok Jubilee Party offices at Nyawira road in Narok town. He said Jubilee leaders have the interests of the Maasai community at heart and Narok is a “Jubilee zone”. “Jubilee has brought the standard gauge railway to Narok. The government is also tarmacking the 82km Narok-Sekenani Gate road, besides improving our wheat prices,” Tunai had said. He said four of the five MPs in the county were elected through JAP in 2013. “Narok is a Jubilee zone. We will ensure that all MPs and MCAs are elected through the Jubilee Party,” Tunai said. The governor said he would fulfil all the preelection promises. “We will finish tarmacking 30km of Narok town roads before next year. We already have investors on the ground, who will create employment for the youth,” Tunai said.   