I often get the sense that there&rsquo;s not enough out there written specifically for 40-year-olds. An oversight in my view, for there&rsquo;s much to say about what to expect and what one should do when they get to this significant, sometimes tumultuous, milestone age. This topic takes me back to an evening birthday party I attended a little over a decade ago. The party was for a woman turning 30. When it got round to speeches, her much older brother stood up to speak. It was a speech that was both grim and wistful, where every second sentence started with an almost cautionary sounding refrain: &ldquo;When you get to 40...&rdquo; He didn&rsquo;t paint a pretty picture of life as a 40-year-old. This is what they call midlife crisis; expect it when you get to 40. It strikes between the ages of 40 and 50, the halfway point to the end, and is generally characterised by an erosion of self-confidence and a healthy dose of low self-esteem. It&rsquo;s that period in one&rsquo;s life when you wake up wondering if this is as good as it gets. Followed by worrying about how little time you have left, and then thinking about what you&rsquo;ve not done with your life. It is not a happy time. Fortunately, there are ways to cope. The first step is to accept that you&rsquo;re getting old, so old that it is not entirely inconceivable to throw your back out while reaching for the TV remote. Once you&rsquo;re done accepting the beginning of old age, you then take steps to avoid getting depressed about it. Start by getting fit and staying fit. Not only is good health important at an advanced age, looking good at an advanced age does wonders to your self-esteem. Of course, despite being healthy and fit, the machine will still show signs of mileage, what with greying hair and a wrinkle or two, but one can&rsquo;t argue that a sparkling, well-maintained vintage car does turn heads. Next, you reimagine your life. Invent new goals because right about now, at 40, it is dawning on you that your childhood dreams are dead. Not to panic. Instead, bury the 20-year-old you, say a few kind words, and then move on, time to write a new mission statement with the 40-year-old you in mind. But even as you set new goals, be careful you don&rsquo;t rely on the map too much. It&rsquo;s what 20-year-olds do, what you did; so sure of where you were going 20 years ago only to now find out that it doesn&rsquo;t work that way. I read somewhere that sometimes, a man has to lose his bearings to find his way. At 40 you&rsquo;ll feel lost. Don&rsquo;t sweat it, keep moving forward. Try new things, new foods the names of which you can&rsquo;t even pronounce. Take up a new sport, learn a new skill just for fun. Unshackle yourself from routine. You&rsquo;re 40, not dead. Enjoy the remaining part of life. With the above in mind, this is the speech I&rsquo;ll give if ever I&rsquo;m called upon to talk about getting older. It will not be grim, or wistful, but it will be short...&ldquo;When you get to 40, take a look at yourself in the mirror. Give yourself a little smug smile, because you&rsquo;re wiser, smarter, and emotionally stronger than someone half your age. Plus there&rsquo;s a whole lot of fun to be had at 40 than people imagine.&rdquo;