Treat people how you want to be treated and you&rsquo;ll be okay, is Njora&rsquo;s mantra. &ldquo;Honesty and hard work are key in life. Without them, you can never get anywhere. You should work hard and do your part so that God can do His. Nothing comes easy. &ldquo;You cannot stay in one position and hope success will one day decide to come to you. You have to go for it with a zeal that really shows you want it. At the end of the day, you will end up achieving all your wishes. Positivity is also important.&rdquo;6AMThe first thing I do when I wake up is convincing myself that I need to get out of bed. I am not a morning person so it is usually a hustle to wake up. Sometimes I just wake up because it is socially acceptable that you wake up. The first thing I do is go through YouTube and Twitter. In this time and era, you can get to know of everything going on around the world through social media.7AMI usually do not have breakfast, as I mostly do not see the meaning of it. I can go for a couple of days without eating. People joke to me that at times I eat a lot but to say the truth, I am a poor feeder, but when it comes to eating, I will eat, though I do not know where the food goes. But I am waiting for a wife so that breakfast can be relevant in my life.8AMI usually have a lot of rehearsals during the day. But before I rehearse, I end doing a sort of rehearsal in my mind, where I argue with myself if I am going to rehearse. I find this very good for myself as it keeps me in character and ready for the parts I am going to take part in. Mostly on-screen, I do not have to cram the lines as I will say them over and over again, but if it is something else, I have to spend a lot of time cramming. But mostly, I daydream a lot during the day. It is important as an artiste, as it helps you visualise.8PMI usually have my dinner at about eight in the evening. From here, when I have had nothing to do all day, insomnia kicks in as my head is usually clogged with nothing.WEEKENDSI usually call weekends &ldquo;my days&rdquo;. This is because it is usually the time that I get to at least socialise with people and also get to know how they are doing. I tend to minimise visiting people, as some friends may say that I am unfair to them, which they do not understand is because of my normal busy schedule on weekdays. I have lots of friends so If I said that I wanted to visit all of them, I won&rsquo;t have done so by the end of the year.