It finally happened on a cool Thursday afternoon on April 27, 2017, as had been promised. It had been a long journey with several days when uncertainty filled the air, news leaks were put on headlines by curious reporters seeking to be the first to break the news. At times the principals seemed to be at loggerheads with one another, each person claiming to have the best credentials to be the flagbearer. Supporters and coalition party members seemed at times to give up; some even claiming they were better off &ldquo;falling back to our known home territories&rdquo;, meaning their political parties.But somehow the group soldiered on and grew in numbers from the original Cord to something else. The first to join the Cord gang of three was Musalia Mudavadi with his NASA proposal at hand. A good number of leaders in Cord were sceptical of the NASA idea. I was not surprised, however, that Raila was all for it from the word go, perhaps hinting that Mudavadi must have mooted the idea with him before making it public. With Mudavadi joining the three and bringing in his party, the Amani National Congress formally into the alliance, NASA became an attractive new name to embrace everybody. Governor Isaac Rutto, with his Chama Cha Mashinani ( the Party of the Grassroots) completed the making of the Pentagon just a few weeks ago. The face of Kenya could now be seen in the leadership.By the way, the word &ldquo;NASA&rdquo;, in Swahili, literally means to pluck off by the roots, or to cut into oblivion. The expanded alliance was setting itself up to &ldquo;nasa&rdquo; Jubilee from power, in much the same way Narc &ldquo;nasad&rdquo; the Moi regime from power in 2002. It is interesting that the person who was &ldquo;nasad&rdquo; off his ambition to become President was Uhuru Kenyatta, then a rookie politician who had inherited an age old party that had terrorised the Republic of Kenya with one-party rule for more than two decades. This time, Uhuru had done much better. He had &ldquo;won&rdquo; the 2013 elections and proceeded to terrorise Kenyans with a Tyranny of Numbers cobbled out of a coalition between him and William Ruto, two ICC suspects who mobilised two large communities to deliver them from the evil of The Hague-based court. The plan worked. And for the last four years Kenya has gone through a reincarnation of the old Kanu regime, only tempered by the restrains in the 2010 Constitution.Karl Marx was right. History is fond of repeating itself: First as a farce and secondly as a tragedy; or it could be the other way round! Obviously, noting that Ruto and Uhuru are two young people from whom the people of Kenya expected a lot in terms of innovation and social change, they have clearly performed way below expectation. In almost every area of socio-economic development they have ruined the achievements of the Narc and the Grand Coalition government. One does not understand, for example, why the two disbanded the Vision 2030 Secretariat and replaced in with nothing. Equally puzzling is why they sent the National Economic and Social Council packing, leaving a huge vacuum in the advisory role the body was playing in policy initiation and policymaking. No wonder, in terms of planning and policymaking, the ship of state seems to be rudderless. What is constant in all this confusion is corruption and rent-seeking that are both dictating how government projects are conceived and implemented, leading to unbearable local and foreign debt.Listening to the NASA leaders diagnose the state of the nation and offer a way forward, some fresh feeling of hope filled everybody&rsquo;s heart who was at Uhuru Park on Thursday afternoon. We could as well have sang &ldquo;Yote yawezekana bila Jubilee&rdquo;, but that would have been less than innovative. But the word NASA summarised it all. Corruption, mismanagement, the waste of public resources, starvation, unnecessary conflicts, the politics of exclusion: all these and many more must be &ldquo;nasad&rdquo;, and a new era of progressive socio-economic development reignited.A NASA manifesto is in the offing. I hope it will be something in the nature of Narc&rsquo;s &ldquo;Democracy and Popular Empowerment&rdquo; that led to the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation&rdquo;, which then produced Vision 2030. To be noted is the fact that 2030 is now dangerously near, and the events that interrupted pursuing this vision cannot be ignored. We need therefore to extend our horizon a little further, and think perhaps of Vision 2040-50. The question needs to be asked: How many five-year &ldquo;growth plans&rdquo; do we need in the coming decades to make this economy a truly &ldquo;Second World&rdquo; economy? What institutions must we build and/or strengthen?I am glad deepening and strengthen devolution, complete with democracy and good governance, and not the shenanigans that we see in the counties at the moment, is part and parcel of the NASA agenda for change we can believe in. But let this not be mere talk: That would be a tragedy, and I know we are definitely not going in the direction of simply talking shop.The collective leadership that has emerged reminds me of what I wrote a few weeks ago regarding a conversation I once had with Nelson Mandela. A leadership that is conscious of its revolutionary role in transforming society cannot be dogged down by sheer individual ambition, but must fly with the eagles pursuing the collective ambition of teamwork.This requires substantial trust, openness, ability to engage in auto criticism and to be fully aware that weaknesses are always reinforced by strengths if openly acknowledged and turned to positive use. The regimented ideological classes in communist parties are no longer in fashion; but they did remind leaders that knowledge is a social good and not simply a personal prowess. Leaders must discuss ideas together and envision the future together. There are those who will always run ahead of the others, but they must appreciate that good ideas can come from the least expected sources. Be inclusive in leadership in almost all fields of leadership endeavour.It is perhaps because of this that NASA took rather long to arrive at a winning formula. Bringing the five corners of Kenya &mdash; as indeed is reflected in the Pentagon &mdash; needed soul searching, introspection and frank discussion &mdash; nothing extenuate. Now the journey has started, and the discourse must be expanded, not to dilute the leadership but to give it roots in a wider constituency of social discourse. Proposals abound, and there are many who will offer some. That is the route that the discourse on the NASA manifesto will need to take.The big difference will obviously be in this new style of truly collective leadership and consultation. Unveiling the structure of leadership is just the beginning. How this leadership will rule is yet another task. It reminds me of a book I read entitled &ldquo;What Does the Bourgeoisie do When it Rules?&rdquo; Very interesting since the art of hegemony is at the heart of bourgeois rule. The bourgeoisie makes you feel you are part of policy making when you actually are not; but you believe you are since there are so many institutions &ldquo;at your choice&rdquo; that can make you be involved. If you don&rsquo;t, or if you are not aware of their limitations, it is not the fault of the bourgeoisie; it is yours. But did you really get involved in designing these institutions?NASA is offering you a new beginning. Get interested now and not tomorrow. As Musalia Mudavadi said: &ldquo;it is about US not simply ME.&rdquo; Let the &ldquo;us&rdquo; in all of us please stand up.