Mandera Governor Ali Roba has announced his preferred Jubilee candidates for election, defying elders&rsquo; dictated lineup in &lsquo;negotiated democracy&rsquo;.The Garre Council of Elders has selected candidates to run on the new Economic Freedom Party ticket. Roba&rsquo;s favourites seek the JP ticket.The new party was launched on Saturday by Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow. Its agenda is to push for equitable distribution of resources and champion the interests of the community in the Northeastern region.The elders had asked all incumbents in the county to reliquish their positions, and be replaced by a line-up of their choosing.Speaking in Mandera on Saturday, Governor Roba said 85 per cent of those seeking election in the county have received direct JP nominations.&ldquo;We have settled on the candidates who will vie on the Jubilee Party ticket, and there is no dispute. The only list we have not agreed on is for Mandera East, but we are still consulting and we hope to reach an agreement soon,&rdquo; Roba said. The candidates in the elders&rsquo; list defected from JP after they were denied direct tickets. They will now face the Jubilee team in the August election. The Garre line-up is led by former Devolution and Planning ministry administrator Hassan Noor. The Roba-led team is comprised of Mohammed Arai from Mandera Township, who will be the governor&rsquo;s running mate.Mandera Deputy Governor Omar Mohammed ditched Roba&rsquo;s camp and joined Garre&rsquo;s, which is headed by Noor.Other aspirants on Roba&rsquo;s team include Mandera West MP Mohamed Mohamud, Mohamed Haji, Abdiaziz Abdille, Ethila Mohamud and Shaaban Isaack among others. Mohamud is eyeing senator, Haji (Banisa MP seat), Abdille (Mandera East MP seat, Ethila (woman representative) and Isaack is seeking the Lafey MP position.Roba said residents should be given the freedom to choose whoever they want. He said negotiated democracy, being championed by the elders, has no place in today&rsquo;s politics. &ldquo;We have seen those people from the elders&rsquo; line-up trying to make decisions for the people. &ldquo;But I am telling you there is nowhere in the world where all elected leaders are asked to leave office... all of them? It is not logical and it is not going to happen,&rdquo; Governor Roba said.