Politics is a game of chess: Every move must be strategic and calculated, or else the king cannot escape.Raila Odinga is a king in checkmate. He is in a very precarious position and every move on the board reveals the man is cheated, and will soon be short- changed!He is betrayed, wounded and a limping politician. Not because he is weak, cowardly or wanting in any way. He is actually a towering political figure, not only in East Africa but also in Africa. He is the most sensational politician of our times. He has remarkably weathered many storms and largely retained his standing and traction among his stalwart supporters. His image, especially where he is loved, is larger than life but where he is loathed, his name elicits great fear and stirs concerted efforts and energy to reject his leadership.This two-sided depiction of this political mogul is riveting! How can a grandee be so strong yet so weak?He is weak, frail and wounded because he has chosen to snub history. He has blatantly ignored the betrayals in his political life, driving himself into the rat trap, taking the bait and accepting to stay on the edge of the cliff, gazing at his eventual destruction.Raila has surrounded himself with the same people who rocked his boat at the last minute, not once but twice. He somehow expects the political god of mercy to intervene and miraculously change these opportunists into saints! The truth is, checkmate, it won&rsquo;t happen! Game over!You know it&rsquo;s cataclysmic when Baba has to cut short his tour to the United States to put out a fire ignited by the untamed ambition of one of his low-rated counterparts, Kalonzo Musyoka.Kalonzo has stuck to his guns that the formula to select the NASA flagbearer must be based on the 2013 MoU, where he was to support Raila in return for the same in 2017.His team, led by minority leader Francis Nyenze, lays claim to this MoU, despite the fact that all the grounds seem to have shifted after they lost the 2013 election and subsequently, folded up their 2013 political vehicle, Cord, and replaced it with a more amorphous alliance &mdash; NASA.Is Raila&rsquo;s memory so short that he cannot see history repeating itself? Kalonzo represented Kitui North, which later became Mwingi North, from 1985 to 2013. In 2007, he denied Raila a direct win by running away with the ODM Kenya party. Through the now-famous &lsquo;kati kati&rsquo; move, he earned himself the Vice President position, while Raila had to literally fight for a piece of the cake &mdash; the Prime Minister position.There is absolutely no difference between the political manoeuvres witnessed 10 years ago and the ones happening now. Today, Kalonzo heads Wiper. Before ODM-K, he had been a member of Raila&rsquo;s LDP, which he abandoned in 2006 to join the Julia Ojiambo-led Labour Party of Kenya, where he trounced Ojiambo in a secret ballot to become the presidential candidate. Kalonzo would later dump Julia and join Raila again before escaping with the baby in a huff. For this, he was rewarded with the VP position by President Kibaki, even after garnering only nine per cent of the presidential vote. For Kalonzo The presidency is his ultimate goal.Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s political relations with Raila have been even more dramatic. Musalia joined elective politics in 1989 at the age of 29. He rose to powerful and lucrative executive positions as Finance minister, Vice President and Deputy Prime Minister in the Government of National Unity. In 2002 Musalia proved to be the weakest link in the opposition unity moving back to Kanu, where he served as Vice President for only two months. He was made Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s running mate in the 2002 general election, betraying Raila for the first time.This phenomenon would be replayed 10 years later, when he left his Pentagon colleagues in the cold to join Kibaki with the UDF party. Eventually, Musalia went it alone, denying Raila the crucial Western vote. Now, both Musalia and Kalonzo seem to be portraying Raila as a spent force whose usefulness can only be realised through endorsing the blue-eyed boys of Kenyan politics.They plan to scavenge on Raila&rsquo;s dwindling political fortune when in fact they have contributed greatly to his misfortunes. The thinking here is that the Jubilee government must be stripped of powers. The main question is why there is so much determination to send Raila home in the guise of removing Jubilee from power. In this arrangement, Raila is promised sweeping powers and the coveted position of a respected statesman. The ultimate beneficiaries are the two gentlemen and their ilk.I dare say Raila needs to abandon these political opportunists and immediately contact Uhuru for the following arrangement: One, create the position of the Prime Minister before this Parliament completes its term. This must not be in a post-election MoU. Raila will occupy this powerful position in a power-sharing arrangement between him, Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto. Each of these principals will be free to bring on board other senior politicians who will eat into their share of power. Take Senator Gideon Moi to Uhuru, Governor Hassan Joho and Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula to Raila and Ruto will make his choices. Alfred Mutua will be crucial in replacing Kalonzo as the Ukambani strongman.This arrangement will entrench the principle of democracy as it should be in highly polarised societies. It will foster a sense of inclusivity of Kenyan communities. Executive powers will be shared among more Kenyans, boosting the sense of patriotism as more Kenyans will feel represented in government. This will be the winning Kenyan political formula that will benefit all Kenyans.Two, review the Constitution and reduce the many overlapping layers of representation by returning the executive ministerial positions to elected leaders who have a direct mandate from the people, mainstream the gender requirements in government, develop a Kenyan blueprint without losing sight of the implementation of Vision 2030 projects.It&rsquo;s evident that whenever the people of the Lake region work together with those of Central Kenya, political temperatures in the country go down, and democracy ceases to be a negative concept of permanent opposition without a course, becoming a concept of representation and development. In 2002, when this parnership was realised, Kenya enjoyed the highest level of optimism and highest development growth of seven per cent. The last time Raila worked with Uhuru, they won the &lsquo;NO&rsquo; referendum campaign in 2005, and won the &lsquo;YES&rsquo; referendum campaign in 2010.Similarly, whenever the Central people work with their Rift Valley counterparts, there is peace and tranquility in the conflict-prone Rift. It remains, however, to be seen how Ruto, the new political commando of Kenyan politics, would react to such Odinga overtures to the Jubilee side, considering they would be strange bedfellows due to their past rocky political associations and the impact this would have on his 2022 presidential ambition.What is clear, though, is that Kenya requires a winning formula to bring to an end the high-stakes political circus that we have slid into over the last 15 years after President Daniel Moi, who ruled with an iron fist, exited the scene. The writer is a lawyer and a governance expert