Dependency on IT by organisations has gained currency as a strategic competitive advantage. If properly planned, developed, and managed, IT can bring about greater efficiency in organisational operations, better working environments, and effective decision-making processes.Small businesses definitely benefit from technology by exploring and expanding their boundaries and horizons, developing a larger client base and improved services. The basic IT requirements to kick-start and sustain small businesses include;Mobile phone/tablet/laptopOne of the great truths of small business is that you often don&rsquo;t have much time to mind the business. Often you will need to visit customers or be out of the office to actually do your job. One cannot afford to waste that time on the road, so being able to take your work with you via phone, tablet or laptop is a tremendous boost to your productivity. These give you access to the Internet to communicate with clients while you do research and backup your valuable data over the web. With these gadgets, you can have antivirus and malware protection software installed to ensure security.Business email/numberHaving a dedicated business email address and number is very important for any startup business. Potential clients looking at your services on your website will be able to reach your business through email for more information, or to place an order. Your thin staff is also going to be emailing clients as well, therefore, a reliable email service is critical. Website Today, very few consumers turn to directory services for business information. Instead, they rely on search engines such as Google, Yahoo or Microsoft. This means if your company is not online you don't really exist. Your website is a virtual business card for it not only supplies consumers with sought-after information such as contacts, directions, hours of operation and areas of expertise, but it also conveys the image and spirit that sets you apart from the competition. Keep your site simple and concise.Social media profile In addition to your website, it's increasingly important to establish your firm's presence across social networking services such as Facebook and Twitter. Social networks enable businesses to share information on upcoming deals, specials and events by communicating directly with customers already interested in what they do. According to research, businesses now market their services and products via social media, exploiting the free microblogging platform, even when introducing direct sales initiatives. Blogs are trendy and many readers get redirected to your site over and over again.Office suite.This application allows one to easily view, edit, and create Word, Excel, and PowerPoint documents, convert to PDF, and manage your files all with the most feature-rich mobile office solutions available.In addition, a comprehensive office suite solution should integrate calendar, address book and e-mail management functions, simplifying communication with colleagues and clients alike, while streamlining your daily workflow.Inasmuch as professional office suites licences are prohibitive, the Internet is awash with free to download applications that would start someone off.Running your own small business can be very satisfying and sometimes rewarding. It can free you from a dull and unfulfilling job. By taking advantage of the Internet, small businesses provide the flexibility to work at home, in an office, or shared workspace. Being an entrepreneur allows you to set your own hours, choose your staff, and pursue the career path of your dreams. By exploiting the various opportunities presented by use of technology one can make more money and have fun at the same time.