A Kiswahili proverb says, usipoziba ufa utajenga ukuta (if you do not seal a crack, you will build an entire wall). Unfortunately, for a long time now, we have neglected sealing cracks on the walls of our democratic house. And with these cracks widening every day, our democracy house is fast falling apart like the house of cards.One of the main problems in our society in regards to democracy and elections is the failure by voters to discuss contracts between them and the candidates, ranging from the President to the MCA, where the electorate explain their problems to the aspirants, and future leaders explaining their commitment and strategy to solve the peoples&rsquo;s problems.But when we have politicians giving cash, and voters demanding for it, the electorate dares not mention their problems to the leaders for fear that they might stop giving them handouts. Consequently, people have sacrificed problems and their solutions on the altar of greed for cash, which will obviously doesn&rsquo;t last more than one day. This is muzzling voters more effectively than dictatorship.Once people lack the courage to speak out about their problems, and to commit candidates to solving their problems, it means tomorrow&rsquo;s government and leaders will not be devoted to providing solutions. On the other hand, compromised voters will have no moral courage to demand those solutions.But as the people leave their problems unattended over the years, cracks on the walls of our democracy house have widened and are now nearly bringing the house down.One such crack is use of violence in our elections, engendered to ensure the people don&rsquo;t have the freedom to express themselves in rallies. Indeed, the purpose of violence is to ensure you attack your opponents with impunity any time they criticise you. But because violence is a product of dictatorship, we play our part in bringing back totalitarianism of the one-party state each time we fill our rallies with rowdy and violent youths, or any time we stop anybody from expressing themselves. Ultimately, violence is the mother of the civil wars and genocide we see in many countries and in history.The other terrible feature of our collapsing democracy is transformation of our elections from an exercise of the people freely replacing bad leaders with good ones into markets, where voters sell votes for money and candidates buy votes and leadership. Unfortunately, this transaction only commercialises leadership and institutions of government such as Parliament. Leaders subsequently turn these offices into private shops, where they sell services as they would sugar for money.Our democracy is also a mess because moneybags are conspiring to transform ownership of our national and county governments from public to private properties, where jobs, plots and tenders are sold.We are seeing cases where some aspirants are being sponsored from other counties with tonnes of money, to vie and finally own the governorship and county for their eventual transformation into private property.If these &lsquo;projects&rsquo; win, those who sponsored them demand a share of county resources and properties.It is important to realise that those who bankroll these aspirants have bigger influence than the hopefuls themselves, even when elected governors or senators. Finally, it is also unfortunate that our elections are not controlled by debate and ideas. Instead, they are controlled by money and caravans that are organised for show of might, and whose main purpose is to intimidate voters into electing the caravan owners.Although caravans don&rsquo;t engender any debate, people are judged according to how big they are, and the seniority of positions they vie for. Some voters, therefore, believe a governor should have a caravan that is bigger than that of a senator, whose caravan should be bigger than that of an MCA. But while these caravans are of absolutely no value to the quality of leadership, many voters who might even consider themselves Catholic believe a politician without caravan has no value.Here, it is forgotten that we consider Jesus the Saviour despite the fact that his caravan constituted of only one borrowed donkey, and when the Pope came to Kenya more than 2,000 years later, he rode in a small pick up vehicle that should have taught the Kenyan people and leaders the value of humility. The writer is former Subukia MP and Nakuru Senate aspirant