A section of Jubilee MPs from Kisii county have pledged to burn the midnight oil to deliver at least 60 per cent of the votes to the ruling alliance.The region is perceived to be the stronghold of Opposition Chief Raila Odinga who formed the grand NASA coalition with Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani).In 2013, Raila garnered a massive 68.8 per cent of total votes cast against President Uhuru Kenyatta's 27.8 per cent.Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi is leading Jubilee&rsquo;s push to end ODM&rsquo;s dominance in the county.&ldquo;We have formed a formidable team to ensure Jubilee wins all elective seats in Kisii. We also want the President to win majority votes here,&rdquo; said Maangi. &ldquo;Jubilee is doing well in Kisii and we want to confirm it on August 8.&rdquo;The DG, who abandoned his boss James Ongwae, spoke at a Kisii hotel on Monday during a meeting with women leaders from nine constituencies.More on this: Maangi enters Kisii governor race, unsettles Jubilee plan to beat OngwaeAlso read: Maangi hints at returning to ODM after leaving for JubileeMaangi was with MCAs Catherine Manzi, Risper Kemunto and Tabitha Okong&rsquo;o who ditched their parties to join Jubilee.&ldquo;Debate has been raging as to whether Kisii is a swing vote county or an ODM stronghold. I want to make it very clear that Jubilee will get more votes in Kisii than NASA,&rdquo; said Nominated MCA Kemunto who was ODM women's league chairman.Okong&rsquo;o said they will campaign across the county for Uhuru's re-election.Kisii woman representative Mary Otara said ODM is shadow of it&rsquo;s former self in Kisii following the defection of several leaders. Otara is among leaders who defected from the party.&ldquo;If we strategise well, we will clinch all the elective seats. The newcomers in ODM may not have a big impact,&rdquo; she said.Otara exuded confidence that she defeat three contestants in Jubilee Party primaries on April 21 and retain her seat. She asked the Jubilee Party elections board to conduct free and fair nominations.Other politicians who spoke to the Star on phone said they will turn the tables against Raila in this year's general election. They dismissed NASA as a "feeble and impotent" outfit incapable of winning the next polls."These NASA people have nothing to offer the Omogusii community. They lack a vision for our people," Kisii Senator Chris Obure said.Obure was elected on an ODM ticket but decamped from the country's largest party for Jubilee. He is Kisii Governor Ongwae's closest challenger on the Jubilee ticket."We will work overnight and overdrive to ensure the President wins the Kisii vote by a massive margin," he said.Bomachoge Borabu MP Joel Onyancha (TNA) hit out at NASA accusing its leaders of neglecting the community for the many years they served in powerful positions in government.Raila, Kalonzo, Wetang'ula and Mudavadi served as ministers in past regimes at different times."Raila was Prime Minister and Minister for Roads but he failed to deliver any inch of tarmac for my people. It is under the Jubilee government that Bomachoge residents have seen tarmac with their naked eyes," he said.Bomachoge Borabu has been one of the most loyal Jubilee strongholds in Kisii county. The parliamentary unit defied all odds, including a strong opposition wave, to twice re-elect Onyancha, who supports the government.Read: Onyancha biggest &lsquo;beneficiary&rsquo; in Kisii poll realignmentsMPs Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache Norh), Richard Tong'i (Nyaribari Chache), Elijah Moindi (Nyaribari Masaba), Simon Ogari (Bomachoge Chache) and Stephen Manoti (Bobasi) all said they will deliver for Jubilee."Our people should not be misled. NASA is just nothing. Period. We will remain in government because we want our people to benefit," said Angwenyi.South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya moved to KNC while Kitutu Chache South's Richard Onyonka defected to Ford Kenya. Obure and Nyamweya are seeking to replace Ongwae.Jubilee and NASA are battling for the 756 million registered voters in Kisii county.