Experienced national women&rsquo;s volleyball team libero Elizabeth Wanyama was the main casualty as Kenya Prisons&rsquo; unveiled the final team of players for this week&rsquo;s Africa Club Championship in Kelibia, Tunisia.The championship is set to run from April 5-18. Wanyama&rsquo;s absence sees the return of Judith Tarus, who has been missing in action in recent International assignments. Her inclusion in the team gives her chance to prove to the technical bench that she hasn&rsquo;t lost her touch just yet. Wanyama has previously played key role at both the club and national level and services will surely be missed. Africa and reigning Kenya Volleyball Federation national league best booster Jane Wacu headline the setting department and will team up with Joy Luseneka.In the centre department, experienced Brackcidise Agala, Joan Chelagat, Ann Lowen and Edith Wisa will fight for the starting line-up.Captain and reigning Africa Most Valuable Player Evelyne Makuto, Loice Jepkosgei and Yvonne Wavinya form the left attacking department while lanky Lydia Maiyo and Emmaculate Chemutai are the coach&rsquo;s choice for the right attack department. Prisons&rsquo; coach Lung&rsquo;aho is happy to have experienced trio of former national team captain Wacu, middle blocker Agala and captain Makuto in the traveling party.The three were not part of the squad to the last edition, which was held in Tunis as they were away in France attached to Club Chamalieres. The tactician feels their presence is a big boost for the former Africa Club Champions. Lung&rsquo;aho said the three have the experience and exposure, which was missing in the last edition and remained optimistic of good performance this time around.&ldquo;With the three players at our disposal, we have an added advantage. I believe we have had good preparations ahead of the club championship and we hope to record good performance this time around,&rdquo; said Lungaho, who doubles up as the KVF technical director. Deputy President&rsquo;s wife Rachael Ruto hosted the former champions to luncheon yesterday at her Karen home to wish the team well.Wacu, especially, has in the recent past been involved in some sort of tug-of-war over her purported transfer to Kenya Pipeline. The former champions alongside their local nemesis Kenya Pipeline will represent the nation at the 14-day tourney, which brings together top clubs across Africa. KVF national league champions and last year&rsquo;s Africa Club bronze medalist, Pipeline were set to depart for the host nation last night while the war-dress are scheduled to depart today.