President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday issued a strong warning to Jubilee Party aspirants against engaging in violence, saying culprits will be disqualified.Addressing a press conference at State House, the President said JP has no preferred candidates. He assured hopefuls and supporters the nominations, which kick off today, will be free and fair.&ldquo;Let anyone considering using violence hear me clearly. It will not be tolerated and you will face the consequences. Let me be clear and repeat the party position &mdash; any acts of violence will lead to disqualification and misconduct may be subject to penalties under the law in line with the relevant Act,&rdquo; he warned.&ldquo;I would like to assure all members of the Jubilee Party and aspirants that our party has worked hard and invested heavily to ensure a free, fair, transparent and credible primary.&rdquo;Teach ODM a lessonUhuru urged JP aspirants to set a good example for ODM on how to conduct nominations, referring to protests and rigging claims in the ongoing Orange party primaries.&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s show everyone how party primaries should be conducted &mdash; in a calm, professional and civilised manner,&rdquo; he said.The JP leader told aspirants who will not be satisfied with the outcome to lodge their complaints with the relevant party organs.Uhuru warned party officials and returning officers that they will be held responsible should they compromise the credibility of the process.complaints&ldquo;Any aspirant not satisfied with any aspect of the process is encouraged to raise their concerns in a civilised manner and use the internal party processes set up to consider and adjudicate such concerns. You must absolutely reject unruly disruption,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;I commend and thank more than 60,000 JP officials and staff that have worked hard to prepare the enormous logistics for the primaries and have been deployed in readiness. But I take this opportunity also to warn them that they must conduct themselves with utmost integrity.&rdquo;Uhuru said police officers have been put at the disposal of all political parties to ensure security of all citizens and communities during nominations and the August election.He took the opportunity to wish JP aspirants good luck and urged supporters to turn out in large number to nominate leaders of their choice.&ldquo;Your voice counts, your choice matters. I encourage all Jubilee members to come out on Friday [today], Monday and Tuesday,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&ldquo;Play your part in our democracy and ensure the best candidates are selected &mdash; candidates who can be the best leaders in our next government, the National Assembly, and county assemblies.&rdquo;nairobi governor raceWhen asked about his promise to mediate between Nairobi governor hopefuls Senator Mike Sonko and Peter Kenneth, the President said &ldquo;my office is still open but if no luck, Nairobians will have to decide&rdquo;.The two have engaged in public spats over who between them is best-suited to fly the party&rsquo;s flag.There had been reports Uhuru endorsed Kenneth during the burial ceremony of JP deputy chairman David Murathe&rsquo;s father at PCEA Kirwara Church, Murang&rsquo;a, on Saturday.However, yesterday, he dismissed the reports, saying he was misquoted.&ldquo;I did not tell them to vote for him. I asked them to pray for him. That does not amount to an endorsement,&rdquo; Uhuru said. &ldquo;Pray for him. Where is the problem? I&rsquo;m praying for all aspirants. I will work with the people chosen by the wananchi.&rdquo;During the burial, Uhuru urged Murang&rsquo;a residents to pray for Kenneth to ensure he wins the Jubilee nominations.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m calling on you, Kirwara residents, to pray for your son so he can win the Jubilee ticket in Nairobi,&rdquo; he said.