On January 26, local dailies reported that ODM leaders had decided to set up a parallel polling system that would collect, transmit, tally and store election results in a parallel tallying command centre. The party described the proposed system as &ldquo;electronic in it&rsquo;s tallying&rdquo;. The tallying system would run parallel to that of the IEBC, and would be sourced from Germany. The party leaders claimed the reason for setting up the system was informed by past experience, a very telling statement.On April 2, opposition chief Raila Odinga reiterated the same intention and even went further to state that NASA will announce its own results. Deputy President William Ruto was quick to react, first, against the initial announcement in January, criticising the parallel polling and tallying system as unconstitutional. He said it is only the IEBC that is mandated by the Constitution to tally and announce poll results. He further stated the intention of the said tallying centre was for the opposition to announce its own results.It is noteworthy that the manner in which the ODM leaders described the parallel system in January hints that it won&rsquo;t be a mere in-house tallying centre. It will be a full poll and tallying system with a whole backbone and infrastructure of a polling agency, from collecting, electronically transmitting, tallying to storing capacity, running parallel to that of the IEBC. In January, ODM leaders went shy of stating they would announce the tallied results something that the Deputy President claimed was the intention. They have now confirmed it and DP Ruto&rsquo;s fears have been proved right.But the proposed tallying centre is unconstitutional for the following reasons.Article 1 of the Constitution provides that all sovereign power belongs to the people of Kenya and shall only be exercised in accordance with our Constitution.The 2010 Constitution provides in Article 1( 2 )n ( 3 ) that the said sovereign power shall be exercised either directly or through elected leaders and that power is delegated to Parliament, the executive and the judiciary.Article 2 of the Constitution provides that it&rsquo;s the supreme law of the land and binds all Kenyans but more importantly, it provides that no person may claim or exercise state authority except as authorised under the Constitution. The proposed system as described would exercise authority vested in the state through the IEBC, thus, unconstitutional.Article 3 provides that we are all under obligation to respect, uphold and defend the Constitution. The opposition, in setting up this system, will have violated this provision.Article 81(e) ( 3 ) demands that our electoral system must be conducted by an independent body. A tallying system, other than IEBC&rsquo;s, would contravene this as it is an opposition&rsquo;s venture and misadventure devoid of any pretext at independence.Sixth, Article 81(e) (iv) and (v) provides that our electoral system must be transparent and administered in an impartial, neutral, efficient, accurate and accountable manner. The proposed system as described cannot avail nor comply with these principles and ethos. It will in any event be sectarian and prone to manipulation, and intended to serve the opposition partial interests. It is unaccountable and can&rsquo;t be audited. Besides, it will impugn and impeach the credibility and integrity of the August 8 general election, by creating false perception that there is need for a parallel poll and tallying system and parallel results announcement. Article 82 grants Parliament powers to legislate on the electoral commission, elections and referenda, candidates&rsquo; nominations and continuous voter registration. Pursuant to this, Parliament has enacted the Elections Act and the delegated legislation in form of regulations and rules (are being) made by the IEBC, the Judiciary Committee on Election and the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal. None of these laws and regulations provides for parallel poll and tallying system as the opposition would want us to believe. It is, therefore, illegal.Article 88 establishes the IEBC, with exclusive mandate to conduct and supervise referenda and elections for any office established by the Constitution or other elections as prescribed by an Act of Parliament. The Constitution does not in anyway delegate this power to conduct elections to the opposition or any other third party. Additionally, the Constitution does not provide for volunteers or imposters to assist or supplement their said role.It is also known that IEBC commissioners are vetted. The credibility and competence of the opposition personnel to conduct the illegal parallel poll, tallying and results announcement is neither ascertainable nor is their said venture capable of being audited and accounted. Additionally, the IEBC is subject to values and principles of the public service as set out in Article 232 and leadership and integrity ethos and responsibilities as set out in Chapter Six of the Constitution. The staff who will be incharge of the opposition&rsquo;s poll system are not subject to these public service constitutional values and principles, nor the constitutional leadership and integrity ethos and responsibilities.Kenyans must, therefore, reject in totality the proposed parallel poll and tallying system and parallel results announcement, because that is the sole responsibility and mandate of the IEBC. This is not an issue of one&rsquo;s political party, loyalty or inclination: It is a matter of defending the credibility and integrity of the August 8 general election. This is, especially, to avoid parallel false results being announced by an unauthorised tallying centre &mdash; a recipe for chaos and anarchy.