The Ministry of Tourism will invest more heavily in marketing the country&rsquo;s tourist attractions in regional than international markets, CS Najib Balala has said. The ministry yesterday opened a Tourist Information Centre at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport aimed at making information on destination more accessible. Balala said the new strategy is projected to help grow tourist arrivals by 20 per cent annually starting this year.He said arrivals are expected to increase from 1.34 million last year to about 1.5 million this year, with full recovery expected in 2018. &ldquo;We will focus more on the African market and the (EAC) region because these can help us record a double digit growth,&rdquo; Balala said during the opening of the TIC. Kenya Tourism Board, the country&rsquo;s lead marketer, has also partnered with Kenya Airways to market destination Kenya through a branded Boeing Dreamliner. One of KQ&rsquo;s Boeing 787-8 has been branded &lsquo;Magical Kenya&rsquo;&ndash; the official travel and tourism guide by the KTB &ndash; which describes attractions and provides databases of safari operators and accommodation in Kenya. &ldquo;We encourage JamboJet to also fly to Uganda, Rwanda and other East African countries to support regional tourism,&rdquo; Balala said. The low-cost carrier has applied for licences to fly to 11 African countries as it seeks to expand operations beyond Kenya. They include Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, and Kilimanjaro in Tanzania,Blantyre and Lilongwe in Malawi, Uganda, Ethiopia, Somalia, and the DR Congo. Meanwhile, Balala has said the cut on the tourism budget for the 2017-18 financial year will not affect marketing activities. CS Henry Rotich has allocated the sector Sh2.7 billion for tourism recovery in the next financial year starting July 1, a reduction from Sh4.5 billion in the current financial year ending June 30, and Sh5.2 billion in 2015-16. &ldquo;We negotiated and agreed. We appreciate the drought that has affected the country and infrastructure development. However we remained focused in raising the numbers. We want to go back to 1.8 million,&rdquo; Balala said. KTB will also focus on traditional markets of the US, UK, and other Europeans countries to increase visitor numbers, CEO Betty Radier said. The government is pushing for recovery of the sector, a key foreign exchange earner, after a four year slump due to insecurity.