When we were working on Vision 2030, I learnt something very important.That it is important not to be content with little achievements. If you want to fly, don&rsquo;t be content with walking with the chicken all the time. They will definitely fly sometimes, especially when they are threatened, but they won&rsquo;t go far. Sooner rather than later, they will be caught by the lady of the house and slaughtered for the visitors. If you want to fly aim at flying with the eagles, who not only fly very high but can also see very far. The eagles are safe in the sky. They always plan carefully and hit their objectives. They are dreamers as well as doers.When we worked on both the Economic Recovery Strategy &mdash; the ERS of 2003-2007 &mdash; as well as Vision 2030, we were both dreamers and doers. But we were also supported by a positive mood in Kenya when the Narc popular lyric was &ldquo;Yote ya wezekana bila Moi&rdquo; ( all is possible without Moi); the people believed it and so did we. It created a positive feeling in every dream we had, and we were determined not to let the people of Kenya down.That is the feeling I have about Kisumu county now. I see the Sh42 billion that has been voted for expenditure in this county since the dawn of devolution as no small change. With proper planning and financial management, it should have done a lot. But it hasn&rsquo;t. Some money has been put here which was extra-budgetary, like the money for the Kisumu Urban Project. Imagine Sh7 billion lying idle for a good five years without being used to prepare Kisumu as a Special Economic Zone. Let me give you the story in full. It is stranger than fiction.I will tell this story in simple language devoid of economic jargon and the riddles in donor language. We had envisaged Kisumu as a Special Economic Zone in the context of Vision 2030. In other words, the city and its environs would be developed as an area where infrastructure and services would be improved to facilitate rapid economic growth by attracting investments. For example, the port in Kisumu, which used to be a vibrant center for maritime transport and trade had, over the years, fallen to disuse. The passenger and cargo ships that used to crisscross the lake from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda virtually disappeared. We no longer hear of MV Kamongo and MV Victoria, to mention but a few. The dry dock, where boats and ships used to be made and repaired, is now home to the hyacinth weed and other opportunistic plants. The railway workshop next to it that used to be second to the one in Nairobi was looted of equipment over a period of time and now looks a sad graveyard of a dead glorious past.The Special Economic Zone was meant to reverse all this and renew the vibrancy of Kisumu as a center for trade and commerce. The port was to be shifted to the east of Dunga, where the swamp would be drained and an international port built with all the facilities for maritime transport, cargo handling and transshipment. With the standard gauge railway reaching Kisumu, cargo from Mombasa and Nairobi would be shipped across the lake to the ports of Mwanza, Port Bell and others. The MV Victoria and Kamongo would be back, and other MVs. Kisumu would be reborn.Fortunately for us, during the Grand Coalition Government, we negotiated a loan of Sh7 billion with the French government to carry out a special Kisumu Urban Project in the context of Vision 2030 and the Special Economic Zone. The Kenyan government then gave this money to the Kisumu county administartion as a grant. The mission of KUP was to improve the lake front, lay the grounds for shifting the port to East of Dunga, build a road linking the port with the airport, build the markets of Kibuye, Jubilee and Otonglo into modern markets with adequate facilities, undertake slum upgrading, establish a proper solid waste management programme, improve infrastructure particularly roads, drainage, sewage and water systems, undertake spatial planning and invest in human resources development and training. KUP was to be implemented between 2012-16. To date, nothing has been done!Wise men and women say that you can take a cow to the river to drink water but you cannot force it to drink that water. The Kisumu county government was definitely taken to the river to drink through KUP, but it failed to drink the sweet water. Why?In the first place, the county government was never ready to implement KUP. And when it attempted to do so, it had several hiccups most of them self-inflicted. For example, under the Urban Areas and Cities Act the Kisumu City must be governed by a City Management Board which appoints a city manager as the CEO. To date, Kisumu has never had any of this. The governor appointed an acting city manager &mdash; illegally of course &mdash; who worked for hardly a year before being fired for resisting corruption. KUP could not therefore be implemented in a vacuum. It needed a functioning governance system and structure.Let the truth be told: The fault, dear Kisumians, is not in our stars but in ourselves. We have failed to establish good and accountable governance in the county. If we cannot do this during this coming election, then we shall continue to be content with a county government whose highest achievement is the building of boda boda sheds and giving a few cows to farmers. If we do that, we shall be content with walking with the chicken and not flying with the eagles.The theory that good governance is a necessary condition for development is not an empty theory; it has been proven in history. Good governance involved proper political and economic hygiene. Politically it means embracing democracy, human rights, the rule of law and human dignity. Economically, it means proper management, eliminating corruption and all kinds of malfeasance in managing public affairs. The Kisumu county government is case study of bad governance and malfeasance. If we have to go forward, we must confront this ugly state of affairs and implement devolution in line with the Constitution, and the various Acts of Parliament.This is unlikely to happen if we continue to accept money as the central factor in political contests, particularly in elections. This problem was almost solved by President Mwai Kibaki under the Narc government. But we didn&rsquo;t persist and insist. The UhuRuto regime has taken us back to the dark old days of the Moi era. Some governors have joined that bandwagon with relish. Somehow, we must work ourselves out of this quagmire. And I believe the NASA government will be our saviour. I intend to lead Kisumu in that direction.