Newly promoted SportPesa Premier League side, Zoo Kericho&rsquo;s maiden win in the top tier will have to wait longer after they played to a 1-1 draw against Muhoroni Youth yesterday. The match, played at Afraha Stadium, was earlier scheduled for the home of Zoo, at the Kericho Green Stadium, but was switched to Nakuru at the last minute, due to Jubilee election primaries at Kericho Stadium.Zoo showed intent of breaking their duck from the word go after John Kipyegon&rsquo;s shot was deflected off a Muhoroni defender for a fruitless corner. The Sammy Okoth -coached side piled more pressure on the unsettled sugar men, and it paid off in the 24th minute after Nicholas Kipkurui was brought down in the box by Muhoroni defender Paul Muchika for a penalty. Danger man Mike Madoya stepped up to dispatch the ball into the net, giving Zoo a 1-0 lead. Muho fought back hard and had their first corner in the 26th minute. The match was fairly balanced with both sides raiding as Muhoroni settled in the match to force two more fruitless corners at the breather with Zoo having the upper hand.Muhoroni Youth head coach James Omondi brought in Phillip Muchuma for Maxwell Onyango as the Got Alila side searched for an equaliser. Zoo seemed to be headed for three points as they cautiously defended to keep Muhoroni at bay with an hour played. Omondi brought in Thomas Venval for Ismail Kabugu and the move swung the pendulum in Muhoroni&rsquo;s side. They got their equaliser in the 82nd minute from the spot, after a Zoo defender handled the ball in a goal mouth melee. Robert Ouma calmly slotted home to save a point for the reigning top 8 champions. Muhoroni thought they had grabbed maximum points but Ouma&rsquo;s 92nd minute goal was flagged off for offside. Zoo coach Sammy Okoth said two points in two matches was not a bad return considering they lost their first five games. &ldquo;It is only a matter of time before we get good results. My boys are getting closer and I strongly believe they will soon start winning matches,&rdquo; he said. The result leaves Zoo at the bottom of the table with two points from 7 matches, while Muhoroni are ninth with 8 points..Meanwhile, the Kenyan Premier League match pitting Gor Mahia against Mathare United, previously set for Saturday at Thika Sub-county Stadium has been moved.In a statement, the league managers confirmed that the round 8 encounter will now be played on Sunday at 4:15pm and not 3:00pm as was previously scheduled.Other changes of the fixtures will see Thika United play against Western Stima as from 2pm and not 3pm on Sunday.Matches pitting Nakumatt against Kakamega Homeboyz and that between Sofapaka and Bandari will also be played at 3pm as opposed to the initial kick-offs of 2pm and 4:15pm respectively.The Nakumatt vs Kakamega Homeboyz match has been moved from Thika sub-county Stadium to Machakos County Stadium while that pitting Sofapaka against Bandari has been moved from Thika Stadium to Camp Toyoyo ground.