Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has committed to unite all candidates across the political divide in Nairobi to commit to peaceful primaries and elections. Kidero said it was imperative that Nairobi, being the seat of the National government, enjoys peaceful campaigns heading into the much-awaited party primaries and the August polls. &ldquo;As soon as the nominations are over and both NASA and Jubilee have their teams, I am going to call for a meeting for all the candidates in Nairobi from the members of county assemblies, members of parliament, Senators and Governors,&rdquo; Kidero said. He said that Nairobi County must lead by example during the nominations.Read: Tough race for Nairobi governor as Kidero, Sonko flex musclesAlso Read: Kidero likely winner as Sonko, Kenneth feud&ldquo;We will sit and agree to ensure that we manage the campaigns with responsibility and peace. We are praying that the elections will be credible, transparent and results acceptable to the people of Nairobi and Kenya as a whole,&rdquo; he said. The governor spoke on Sunday during a Palm Sunday service at Our Lady of Guadeloupe Church in Adams Arcade in Kibra Constituency, Nairobi. Kidero reiterated that peaceful nominations and elections were important not only for the country but also for Nairobi which is both a commercial and administrative centre of Kenya. &ldquo;The reason why I am saying this is because 60 per cent of the gross domestic product is in Nairobi and we have seen a surge in investment in the city because of peace and its attractiveness to investors,&rdquo; he said. He exuded confidence that he would beat his opponents in the coming elections, pointing out his development record as one of the pillars that he should be judged on as he continues to seek the nod from Nairobi County residents.Read: Recognising Dr Kidero's leadership in Nairobi City County &ldquo;You will recall that in February this year in the cities momentum index, Nairobi had surged to number 10, in ease of doing business from number 150 to 96, in livability index we moved from position 139 to 102, and in attraction for direct foreign investment we are now number one in Africa,&rdquo; said the governor.Read: Nairobi ranked among top 20 cities globally Kidero stated that under his stewardship, the county had seen a reduction in crimes due to improved street lighting. &ldquo;All the gains we have made have been because of a conducive environment created by my county government,&rdquo; he said. He also said that as the Opposition, they would avoid the mistakes they committed in the last election that cost them seats they would have won easily &ldquo;We had the majority seats in the county assembly where we had 43 against 42 but we lost some by our own fault like one in Dagoretti, Umoja and Woodley. This time we will increase by 7 the number of MCAs and 5 for MP seats," Kidero said.