Kakamega ANC officials and aspirants have said the disharmony between the party secretariat and its National Elections Board will affect the credibility of the party primaries.Party aspirants raised concerns on the party&rsquo;s preparedness to hold free, fair and credible nominations during a meeting at the party offices in Kakamega on Thursday. ANC rescheduled its nominations for Kakamega county, earlier set for tomorrow, to Thursday next week. No reasons were given.County chairman Julius Arunga said the party secretariat is micromanaging the NEB instead of leaving it to operate independently. &ldquo;There are fundamental changes that have been made without the knowledge of the board and it is supposed to implement them,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;We want those interfering with the NEB to give it a chance to execute its mandate freely to avoid shambolic nominations.&rdquo; The aspirants gave the county official until Monday to get them assurance of the party&rsquo;s preparedness to hold the primaries so that there are no further delays.Butere parliamentary aspirant Tindi Mwale said the pending issues regarding the primaries raise concern. &ldquo;The officials tell us they have not received any facilitation for the nominations. Lack of resources could curtail fair nominations,&rdquo; he said.Arunga said only registered party members would be allowed to vote.Some aspirants called for the party to allow voters to use IDs.Arunga told those criticising Monday&rsquo;s pro-Musalia Mudavadi demonstrations in Kakamega to keep off ANC affairs. Ikolomani parliamentary aspirant Khamisi Butichi said candidates have not been briefed on primaries arrangements. Shinyalu subcounty ANC chairman Raphael Mulama said party officials do not know what role they will play in the primaries.Meanwhile, ANC denied claims that NASA has settled on a flagbearer ahead of the August 8 general elections.It had been reported that NASA&rsquo;s National Coordinating Committee settled on ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga as the presidential candidate and Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate.The committee reportedly made its decision after 60 days of tense negotiations.Raila, Kalonzo, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi were expected to meet for a consensus on the matter after talks with IEBC officials.But ANC secretary general Godfrey Osotsi said NASA committee members are not aware of such a decision having been made by them. &ldquo;Reports that NASA has reached a decision on the position of flag bearer are erroneous ... We are however aware of many working documents and proposals under discussion in the two committees,&rdquo; he said in a statement.