The ODM National Elections Board is under intense scrutiny from supporters and aspirants ahead of ‘Super Monday’ primaries in leader Raila Odinga’s political bedrock. The do-or-die nominations in Kisumu, Siaya, Migori and Homa Bay take place amid growing tension and suspicion. The party will also hold primaries in Mombasa, another Raila bastion, where getting the ODM ticket is seen as getting more than halfway to victory in August. The critical primaries come at a time of outcry about NEB’s incompetence, disorganisation and claims of bribery and partisanship. There is fear that if polls are not handled well, Luo Nyanza, Raila’s political base, could become a battle zone between dominant ODM candidates and losers who might run as independents. Such a battle could see Raila spend a lot of time fighting fires in Nyanza, instead of seeking votes elsewhere. And if the exercise is as messy as widely expected, sources say, the whole NEB could be sent home. Nominations in some of the counties were to be held on Friday, the day Jubilee also began its primaries. The thinking was that sharing Nomination Day with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s party would save ODM from being the only one in the news for the wrong reasons — Jubilee primaries were also expected to be messy. And they were. preparations questioned It turned out, however, that by Thursday morning, hours before the Friday primaries, ballot papers for Migori and Homa Bay were not ready. NEB was struggling to have the ballots printed while NASA leaders met at the Bomas of Kenya. Still, there were rumours some aspirants already had ballot papers in parts of Homa Bay and Migori. Police in the two counties said they were investigating the claims. On Friday, ODM executive director Oduor Ong’wen told the Star the party was doing its best and some primaries were postponed specifically to get everything right. “On a positive note, the jostling shows that the party is popular. But on the other hand, it gives us serious logistical challenges. The reason why we had to postpone some of them is that we did a review and realised we were not up to it logistically then. “So we are trying our best, but sometimes our best might not be the very best,” he said. Ong’wen, a former political detainee during the Moi era, said the success of the exercise does not depend on the party and the Elections Board alone. “When you have put in place the entire infrastructure, still something like what happened in Migori yesterday [Thursday] takes place. “Officials are being trained so they can be deployed to do a good job, but then somebody goes and begins cutting them with pangas. The party then becomes helpless,” he said. Some hopefuls have accused unnamed NEB members of selling samples of the ballots to some aspirants who have marked them ahead of the primaries. Fears, tension and suspicion have been heightened by claims that NEB cleared some aspirants to pick returning officers and presiding officers. officials beaten On Thursday, some election officials were beaten after youths stormed what they claimed was a training session in Awendo, Migori county. Those undergoing training were said to be associates of one governor aspirant. Lack of consultations is being cited as a major problem bogging down NEB, with one person seen to be seeking to run the show in an exercise of massive proportions. But there are also loud claims that some NEB members or associates are collecting bribes from aspirants and selling ballot papers to them — or promising to give them friendly officials to run the exercise. On Thursday evening, there were strong claims that a member of the NEB had collected millions from a Taita Taveta governor hopeful, with a promise to ensure he gets the ticket. The NEC member claimed he was acting for a senior NEB official. Some claims of of NEB members’ demands for bribes from aspirants reportedly are featured in some cases being handled by the party’s Appeals Tribunal. But in an interview with the Star, Ong’wen said his office has yet to find any concrete evidence on the bribery and integrity claims. “If there are integrity issues, they have not come to our attention. We’ve been trying at the risk of our personal safety to make sure things are different from the way they used to be... Should there be anything concrete and specific, then we can take it up,” he said. soliciting bribes? Some aspirants say they were asked for as much as Sh2 million to be given a free hand to pick officials for the nominations. T hose who were able to pay are alleged to have had their way in picking officials. Desperate hopefuls have written protest letters to the NEB, some through lawyers, protesting against unexplained selection and removal of poll officials, changing of tallying centres and lack of direction. On Friday morning, Ong’wen, equally unhappy with the way the board has conducted primaries, convened a crisis meeting to iron out the issues. There has been a standoff between NEB and the party’s secretariat. NEB chairperson Judy Pareno is said to be ignoring both the executive director and secretary general Agnes Zani even as things deteriorated.