Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has highlighted some of the key projects his administration will prioritise after the August 8 poll. The county boss is seeking a second term. His manifesto, which was launched on Saturday, says construction of the second phase of the Sh2.2 billion Kiambu Sewerage System will start soon after the election. The deal was struck between the county government and the World Bank to replace the current sewerage system, which cannot serve Kiambu’s growing population. The second phase will entail upgrading the sewer line between Juja town and Thika South. The modern sewer is expected to end drainage problems and contamination of rivers. The county generates approximately 901 tonnes of waste daily and plans to recycle it and generate revenue. Kiambu will also double the number of health facilities to 216 by 2022. It currently has 108. The manifesto says the county has developed 26 new health facilities since Kabogo came into office. Kabogo will square it off with Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu for the JP ticket. The health facilities will curb neonatal deaths that stand at 8.3 per cent. Kiambu county currently delivers 62,500 births, a success the governor attributes to better equipment and improved facilities and personnel. “The health facilities are expected to double the capacity of inpatients currently standing at 1,700,” the manifesto reads. Other projects highlighted include increasing Bursary Fund cash to benefit more students. The Fund was launched in 2013 soon after the county chief took office. “We commit to growing the Bursary Fund and increasing annual allocation to ensure our bright and needy students get a chance to pursue their dreams,” the manifesto reads. The county will also establish fully equipped public libraries and increase the number of Early Childhood Development and Education centres. This is part of the administration’s efforts to improve education standards. The manifesto further says that the county has in place revenue enhancement policies and legislation. It says Kiambu has instituted revenue administration reforms and partnered with the KRA for better revenue collection. The county has finalised the Draft Land Valuation Roll, which quantifies its estimated property taxes at about Sh8 billion. The Kabogo administration takes pride in making Kiambu the first county to have prepared a valuation roll and invested in ICT systems to ensure residents’ property and county services are billed accurately. The governor has been traversing the county to popularise his reelection bid.