I regret losing the Cherangany MP seat in 2013, but the appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta saved me from political oblivion, State House political adviser Joshua Kuttuny has said.He apologised to Cherangany residents for mistakes he may have made that led to them to vote him out in 2013. &ldquo;Even a bull has four legs, but at times it falters and stands up again to move on. I&rsquo;m a human being and recognise the mistakes I made. I have come back to say I&rsquo;m sorry and ask you to please elect me this time, because I know you too have suffered under bad leadership,&rdquo; Kuttuny said.He spoke on Friday, when he returned to the constituency to launch his campaigns to reclaim the seat. He is seeking the Jubilee Party ticket.Kuttuny was in a convoy of more than 50 cars to announce his return. He toured Kachibora, Tuigoin, Sibanga and Kitale town. He said after he lost in 2013, he has learnt many lessons, including the fact that voters are employers and must be respected.Kuttuny is marketing himself with the slogan Heshimu Raia (Respect the Citizen). He will battle it out with MP Wesley Korir, among others, during the nominations.&ldquo;If elected, I promise that I will not repeat the mistakes I may have made. I will ensure that all residents of Cherangany are part of my leadership. For example, if I&rsquo;m elected, the CDF chairman and other members will be from other tribes,&rdquo; Kuttuny said.He said during his tenure, he initiated education, water and community projects, which stalled after he was voted out. He promised to revive these projects and ensure that each ward in the constituency gets a public boarding primary school.&ldquo;You elected me when I was only 27 years. I was young and inexperienced then, but now I am mature, more experienced due to the job at State House. Please elect me to serve you,&rdquo; Kuttuny said.He announced his bid in October last year. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m very proud Jubilee has performed very well, contrary to the expectations of some people,&rdquo; Kuttuny said. In January, he said his campaign strategy will be slightly different mainly because of what he has been doing at State House. &ldquo;I will closely work with Cherangany residents and I&rsquo;m confident they will elect me,&rdquo; Kuttuny had said.But his opponent Korir said, &ldquo;I have transformed the lives of residents. I am confident they will give me another chance to serve them.&rdquo;