Kenyan large companies have topped the continent in incidences of bribery and corruption for the second time in a row, a report by audit and consultancy firm EY suggested yesterday. The report, based on a survey done by UK's second largest research firm Ipsos MORI between November 2016 and January 2017, ranked Kenya sixth among the 41 countries in Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa. EY EMEIA Fraud Survey got responses from 4,100 employees from large companies globally. About 79 per cent of Kenyan respondents, the report shows, perceive corrupt practices to be prevalent in their work place, 68 per cent of whom believe their seniors are involved in unethical business practices. This is slightly lower than 90 per cent in 2015 when the country's large companies ranked second globally in prevalence to corruption. &ldquo;When it comes to revenue leakage, the amount of money that is not going to the purpose it was intended for is a lot of money,&rdquo; EY East Africa CEO Gitahi Gachahi said yesterday during the launch of the report in Nairobi. &ldquo;Raising awareness in Kenya in particular is very important.&rdquo; Seventy seven per cent of overall board directors or senior managers sampled acknowledged justifying some form of unethical behaviour to help their business survive. The respondents expressed fear for personal safety and concerns around future career progression within a company as the leading hindrances to reporting an incident of fraud, bribery and corruption. &ldquo;We do not have adequate reporting of fraud incidences,&rdquo; EY East Africa fraud investigation and dispute services leader Dennis Muchiri said. Bribery, corruption and fraud were seen to be most widespread in the areas of procurement with emphasis on infrastructure which has been one of the country&rsquo;s main development focuses over the years. &ldquo;Foreign direct Investments, particularly in infrastructure, is a key government concern,&rdquo; Gachahi said. &ldquo;A lot of money is going into infrastructure but contracts are known to be overpriced, and at the end of the day we still lose as we do not get what was intended from the same donor community.&rdquo; The report recommends that authorities need to do more to mitigate fraud in public and private sectors through increased investment in technology and reinforcing the capacity of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. &ldquo;What is being done in terms of fighting corruption is not enough,&rdquo; Gachahi said. &ldquo;There is still a lot to be done particularly in terms of making sure the anti-corruption bodies can actually bite.&rdquo; The report ranked Ukraine top in corruption index in the world with 88 per cent, followed by Cyprus (82 per cent), Greece (81 per cent), Slovakia (81 per cent) and Croatia (79 per cent). South Africa and Nigeria were ranked seventh and 12th, respectively, with a corruption rate of 79 per cent and 73 per cent, respectively.President Uhuru Kenyatta on December 23, 2016 signed the Bribery Bill into law. The law, which extends the fight against graft to the private sector, requires any person who becomes aware of an act of bribery to report the matter to the EACC.