Can they pull it off? Peaceful, clean, credible primaries.Jubilee&rsquo;s organisational skills and promises of a level playing field will be tested on Friday in a mega day of countrywide primaries.Some 7,893 hopefuls are seeking tickets for governor, MP, senator, MCA and woman representative. Of the total, 107 are running for governor, 156 for senate, 984 for MP, 170 for woman representative and 6,476 for MCA.More than 20,000 polling stations have been set up, with 66,000 staff. A logistical challenge.ODM has been staggering primaries but that hasn&rsquo;t prevented violence, confusion, mismanagement and claims of rigging &mdash; a nightmare after assurances of free and fair voting.With three days to go, Jubilee&rsquo;s credibility is on the line. It says voting will be free, fair, transparent. No favourites, no direct tickets. It scoffs at the opposition&rsquo;s direct tickets and general nominations disarray.It will be do-or-die for President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s lieutenants as nominations will shape their careers. They could soar, or crash and burn. Sore losers could decamp and run as independents, complicating JP&rsquo;s strategy.UhuRuto&rsquo;s heavyweight allies in Rift Valley and Mt Kenya will face each other as combatants, especially for governor.Big, make-or-break contests are shaping up in Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang&rsquo;a, Nakuru, Nyeri, Bomet, Kericho, Nandi, Murang&rsquo;a ,Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet and Tharaka Nithi.In these counties, more than one close UhuRuto ally are running. Sending chills down aspirants&rsquo; spines are doubts about neutrality ofsome county elections boards. Formation of some sparked violence as aspirants said they may serve particular interests.Yesterday JP executive director Raphael Tuju said yet again nominations will be free and fair. Any aspirant involved in violence or disruption will be off the ballot, he said.&ldquo;You will be disqualified &hellip; don&rsquo;t test our resolve because we will do it and you will find it difficult because the appeal process can take very long and you could be time barred,&rdquo; he warned.Returning officers recruited in one area will be assigned elsewhere to reduce favouritism, Tuju said.Thika Town MP Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a said free and fair elections are essential &ldquo;to ensure losers support winners&rdquo;.National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said logistics are in place to ensure winners and lowers are satisfied the process has been transparent.In Nairobi, the wisdom of Solomon will be required to ensure fair and smooth nominations as Senator Mike Sonko, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Margaret Wanjiru compete for the governor&rsquo;s ticket.Uhuru has asked Sonko and Kenneth to agree which one will get the ticket. No deal.In Nairobi&rsquo;s Starehe constituency, MP Maina Kamanda, a long-time Uhuru ally will face a challenge from popular musician Charles Njagua, aka Jaguar.On Nairobi&rsquo;s doorstep in Kiambu county, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu aims to topple Governor William Kabogo. The campaign has been fierce and bitter.Both Waititu, who ran second in the 2013 Nairobi governor&rsquo;s race, and Kabogo are on good terms with the President and DP.Another Kiambu showdown looms between Senator Kimani Wamatangi and Ngewa MCA Karungo wa Thang&rsquo;wa who wants the Senate job.Murang&rsquo;a county, site of violence during formation of the county election board, will be closely watched as Governor Mwangi Wairia faces Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau for the ticket. The two are bitter rivals.The county dumped 110 tonnes of manure on venues to stop Kamau&rsquo;s manifesto launch &mdash; it failed. Violence has broken out.In Nakuru, key UhuRuto allies aim to dethrone Governor Kinuthia Mbugua. They include Transport Licensing Appeals Board chairman John Mututho and NTSA chairman Lee Kinyanjui.The Nyeri governor&rsquo;s race has attracted flamboyant Kirinyaga contractor Ephraim Maina, a close Uhuru ally, Senator Mutahi Kagwe and economist Wahome Gakuru, who lost to the incumbent in 2013. Bomet in South Rift could also spell trouble for Jubilee as two Ruto allies seek the governor&rsquo;s ticket.They are former Konoin MP Julius Kones and National Assembly deputy speaker Joyce Laboso. Combative Bomet Governor IsaacRutto has formed his own party, Chama Cha Mashinani and is to join NASA.In Kirinyaga, former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru, once close to Uhuru, will face Governor Joseph Ndathi and others.Other counties to watch are Kericho, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet. In Kericho, governor contenders include incumbent Paul Chepkwony, former NSSF managing trustee Richard Langat and one Fred Kirui. Running for Nandi governor are incumbent Cleopha Lagat, former Cabinet minister Henry Kosgei and former Agriculture CS Felix Kosgey.In Elgeyo Marakwet, there&rsquo;s a tight race between Governor Alex Tolgos and auditor Bernard Chepkulei. Both are Ruto allies.In Uasin Gishu, infl uential billionaire businessman Bundotich Kiprop or &ldquo;Buzeki&rdquo; is challenging Governor Jackson Mandago &mdash; two DP friends.Buzeki&rsquo;s entry has shaken up the landscape and upset his rivals. Watch Jubilee defenders Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (ElgeyoMarakwet) and Kindiki Kithure(Tharaka Nithi) seeking reelection.Also watch MP Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) facing the DP&rsquo;s deputy director of communications Emmanuel Tallam, MP Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and MP Kimani Ichung&rsquo;wa (Kikuyu).In Trans Nzoia&rsquo;s Cherang&rsquo;any constituency, former MP Joshua Kuttuny faces MP Wesley Korir. Both Ruto and Uhuru say they haveno preferred candidates.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry about the nomination process because once you have convinced voters in your areas to vote for you, then that is all. Make it impossible for someone else to win by selling your policies. You&rsquo;ll have nothing to worry about,&rdquo; Ruto said last month.