A man believed to be a Kenyan soldier held captive by al Shabaab, following last year's attack in El Adde, has pleaded for the government's help.Reports indicated at least 12 soldiers were captured alive and others with injuries during the attack on January 15. It was also said the terrorists used some troops as human shields while Kenyan security agencies pursued them.In a video released on Sunday, David Ngugi, who has a damaged eye and is in uniform, identifies himself as a Kenya Defence Forces soldier.Ngugi asks for the help of President Uhuru Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret, governors and other leaders. He particularly wants Uhuru to secure his release and that of his colleagues."Mimi ni mzaliwa Kiambu county. Nakuja mbele zenu nikiomba usaidizi. Mwaka uliopita tulipigana na al shabaab El Adde na jeshi la Kenya tulilemewa na kuzindiwa nguvu," he said.(I am from Kiambu...I am asking for your help. Last year we fought al Shabaab in El Adde but we were overpowered.)Ngugi says many soldiers died in the ambush and that some of them were held captive. The government has remained tight-lipped on numbers of casualties arising from the deadly incursion on the base in El Adde in the Gedo region within the semi-autonomous Jubaland administration.But it confirmed days later that the insurgents were holding an unspecified number of soldiers hostage.More on this: KDF soldiers were captured by al ShabaabKDF spokesman Paul Njuguna could not be reached for comment on the video, which is the second one of its kind.Ngugi said it was surprising that they had not received any assistance from Kenya since they were ambushed about 15 months ago."...swali ni je nani alituleta Somalia? Nani alitutuma Somalia? Ombi langu nikuwa Kenya ijitokeze itusaidie kwa maana sisi hatukujipeleka Somalia...ni serikali ya Kenya ilitutuma," he said.This loosely translates to: "Who sent us to Somalia? My prayer is that the government will step forward and assist us because we went to Somalia on Kenya's behalf."While questions surrounded El Adde attack, al Shabaab fighters staged another ambush on a camp in Kulbiyow on January 27, saying it was to mark the anniversary of the former attack.More questions were raised on the use of intelligence; a soldier at the Kulbiyow base said the army received intelligence but bosses did not make use of it.Read: KDF received intel on Kulbiyow attack but bosses sat pretty - soldierIn the video being circulated on social media, Ngugi asks the First Lady to talk to the President about their plight."Wewe ni mama yetu...wewe ndiye mama tunayetegemea. Rais anaweza kuwa na mambo mengi...naomba umkumbushe ya kuwa kuna wanajeshi wameshikwa mateka," he said.(You are our mother and we count on you. The President might have a lot on his mind but remind him that we are in captivity.)Ngugi also asked the public to push the government to help them as they had no one else to turn to."Msitusahau. Swali ni je, familia wasipotusaidia, wananchi wakose kutusaidia, wakubwa serikalini wakose kutusaidia,..sisi ni watoto wa nani? Maisha yetu [yataisha]," he said.(Do no forget about us. If our families, citizens and government officials do not help us...whose children are we? We will die."On September 29, 2016, the militia released a video of a man allegedly captured in the El Adde attack.The eight-minute video featured Leonard Maingi who identified himself as a KDF soldier.&ldquo;My message is to you, President Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, as commander-in-chief of the Kenyan Defence Forces, we follow your orders,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;As soldiers, we obeyed your instructions and crossed into Somalia. We then went ahead to El Adde where we were attacked on January 15. We tried fighting but we were defeated and weapons seized."Sources told the Star that there were 240 Kenya Defence Force in El Adde camp at the time of the attack by al Shabaab.The base was led by one Major and four Captains and shared one compound with the Somalia National Army.About 100 KDF soldiers were feared dead and an unknown number went missing, some kidnapped and held hostage by the attackers.Military spokesman David Obonyo disputed that there were 240 KDF officers at the camp, but would not give the exact number. He maintained that it was a company size team of soldiers.[VIDEO] KDF camp had 240 soldiers, half missingKenyan leaders are torn on whether the soldiers should remain in Somalia - they were deployed in 2011 as part of the African Union Mission in Somalia to fight al Shabaab and restore peace and security.The soldiers have complained about lack of equipment as sophisticated as the terrorists' while their bosses have been accused of ignoring information on impending attacks both in Somalia and locally.But the President has insisted that they will fight under the peacekeeping missing until the threat of al Shabaab is eliminated.#SOTN2017: KDF will fight al Shabaab until threat is eliminated - Uhuru