THE declaration of Raila Odinga as the NASA presidential candidate today and Kalonzo Musyoka his running mate will come as no surprise.Kenyans know no living politician has Raila&rsquo;s grasp of the magnitude of problems raced by Kenyans, or the capacity to do something about them.The ticket could never have been Raila and Musalia Mudavadi, because that would be viewed as a Western Kenyan alliance and very easy propaganda fodder for Jubilee.The opposition has gone for a Face of Kenya ticket.Main story: How Wetangula, Rutto made Raila the Nasa flagbearerThe reasons they arrived at Raila are fixed: One, this is his last chance. Two, there are his followers who cannot be transferred to any other candidate, and not just the Luo epicentre; they are the other tribes in Gatundu, and even Sugoi, who believe implicitly in Raila.If they don&rsquo;t see Raila on the ballot, they will not vote for any other candidate. Raila comes with one overarching factor: Out of the five NASA principals, four are former Kanu stalwarts. Isaac Rutto, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula are all very good students of retired President Daniel Moi. In their political veins, Kanu&rsquo;s blood still runs.So there are millions who think that any of these players becoming President would be a continuation of Jubilee, which itself is a continuation of Kanu, if the wrong individuals became the wrong standard bearers in the wrong combination.The most diehard Raila supporters of all communities are convinced he carries the credentials of a person who will start a new chapter of history in Kenya, with total revolution in how government works.These people will only vote Raila. Period.He is the father of electoral reforms, including the game-changing declaration of results at polling stations.Another reason why Raila will be the presidential candidate of choice is his international connections. Of the five, Raila enjoys the most goodwill internationally. He has international allure.His long history of political detention without trial will capture the imagination of many in very many countries, which will translate into economic resources for campaigns and confidence in other countries.If you look at the business aspect, Raila is an astute businessman. The other NASA principals have no meaningful track record in the business sector. Raila will not be at all bad for the economic affairs of this nation.NASA&rsquo;s announcement is likely to begin 100 days of pure nightmares for Jubilee.