The Teachers Service Commission issued a circular on wide-ranging issues regarding schooling, and which among others, reinforced the ban on holiday tuition. &ldquo;All schools should operate within the term dates issued by the Cabinet Secretary for Education. No learners should be detained in school after the end of the term or recalled before the official opening dates,&rdquo; the circular, dated March 21, and signed by chief executive officer Nancy Macharia read in part. The Basic Education Act, 2013, outlaws holiday tuition of any kind. Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i and his PS for Basic Education Belio Kipsang, will not find children in any school in session should they decide to make random checks in the schools during April school holidays as they did in August and December last year.The thrust of this article is not to restate the legal and policy provisions of the rights of the child; his safety and well being which the TSC wants to see teachers comply with. Rather, it seeks to explain why the policy makers on education banned holiday tuition and sought the hand of parliament to outlaw it altogether. Curriculum implementation entails putting into practice the officially prescribed content within Term Dates determined by the Education CS. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in consultation with other players has allocated optimum time to cover prescribed courses of study, syllabuses and subjects at various levels of education. Term Dates are informed by so many factors, chief of which is the content that students ought to be taught. The Term Dates ensure the official school hours within any term or school calendar is adequate to expose the learners to the prescribed curriculum for every level of education, grade or class. Holiday tuition, therefore, is nothing but implementing the curriculum beyond the optimal hours or time frame the Cabinet Secretary has designated. Detaining students in school after the end of the term or recalling them before the official opening dates negates the whole idea underlying holiday or breaks that policymakers have designated in an educational system. There are serious constitutional and legal issues around this, particularly when something unfortunate happens to learners or teachers during this period. School holidays underscore the need for students (and teachers) to maintain a sensible balance between work, rest and recreation over the holiday break. All work and no play, we have been told time without number, makes Jack a dull boy. Students have legitimate interests, outside education: Interests connected with their emotional and physical, personality and spiritual growth. Teaching beyond the official Term Dates has no sound educational value.Communications officer, Ministry of Education