Kenyans on Twitter on Sunday criticised hotelier Mohammed Hersi for a comment he made against Nyali MP aspirant Mohammed Ali. Last Tuesday, Ali tweeted: "It&rsquo;s time to remove power from the power-brokers and give it back to the people of Nyali constituency."But Hersi told off Ali saying he would be better suited to helping his "marginalised brethen" in Isiolo. &ldquo;My friend, you don&rsquo;t belong here. If anything, you are the power broker and Isiolo is calling for you where brethren are marginalised,&rdquo; Hersi said on Sunday in response to Ali&rsquo;s tweet.This did not go down well with Ali and a section of Kenyans from across the political and social divide.Medical Council of Kenya&rsquo;s Victor Bwire said journalism is a very noble profession and journalists can be called upon to do professional duties even in politics.Thirdway Alliance Kenya party leader and presidential aspirant Ekuru Aukot said Hersi&rsquo;s reaction was uncalled for and shocking."Come on Moha, you just didn&rsquo;t tell @MohaJichoPevu that? Should we all go back to our villages or where we were born?&rdquo; Aukot tweeted.But Hersi said he stands by his words saying Ali has no connection with Nyali, let alone Mombasa.Read: Youths might dislodge veteran politicians in Mombasa postsThe Heritage Group of Hotels CEO said Ali is only trying to gain sympathy votes instead of going to the grassroots to campaign.&ldquo;I am a voter in Nyali and the constituency is just not about Nyali. We have many places that are needy like Maweni, Ziwa la Ngombe etc that require serious attention. He has never shared his manifesto and plan for Nyali. &ldquo;As a tourism stakeholders I will play my part to ensure we get the right leadership,&rdquo; Hersi posted on his Facebook account on Sunday after the tweets went viral.Ali retorted: "This is an uncalled for statement coming from a man and a hotelier who I have had deep respect for. Being a manager of hotel chains owned by the President makes it worse. "He is simply profiling me as Borana by saying I should contest in Isiolo. This is akin to what Donald Trump is doing in the US by profiling Muslims." Hersi said as Nyali stakeholders, they are fearful of a fly-in MP &ldquo;who abandons us once he gets elected&rdquo;.&ldquo;Kenyans can vie for a seat anywhere as long as you have a connection with a place. Junet in Migori has lived there for ages, Dawood in Meru and right here in Nyali our current MP is Hon Awiti Bolo. Hon Awiti has lived and continues to live in Mombasa. He has serious investment in Nyali. He has been involved matters Nyali for more than two decades,&rdquo; Hersi said in his Facebook post.He accused Ali of whipping emotions along religious lines adding that that will not get the journalist votes.&ldquo;Twitter or FB followers don't translate to votes. I wish Mohamed my namesake the best of luck as he transitions from Journalism to politics. I am a patriotic Kenyan who respects everyone without a tinge of prejudice and I am not about to change. As always I choose to remain an optimist,&rdquo; Hersi said.Also read: Bigwigs, cash will influence Mombasa polls analysts