Did President Uhuru Kenyatta snub musician Jaguar (pictured), who is also the Starehe Jubilee parliamentary aspirant at the Jubilee headquarters? Well, after losing the primaries to city political supremo Maina Kamanda, albeit for a while, the musician headed straight to the party headquarters to protest and contest the result. Security officers nearly blocked him from talking to Uhuru, but Jaguar bulldozed his way straight to the President. For a while the President kept talking to Deputy President William Ruto before the musician caught his attention. He tried to tell Uhuru something, but he did not seem interested. Jubilee MP in Central Kenya, who lost the primaries to a rival, was seen in very deep thoughts at Parliament Buildings. The flamboyant MP, who is always jovial and outgoing with colleagues and parliamentary staff, sat alone at the members&rsquo; lounge for more than two hours looking, evidently, stressed. While the wind of change was sweeping across the country, some of the casualties have remained in hibernation after falling at the primaries. It was not clear why the MP sought to relax at the lounge a day after he was defeated, but corridors understands that he has been facing a turbulent marriage. Did ODM leader Raila Odinga give a senior party National Elections Board official a dressing down two days ago following aborted nominations in Homa Bay? Well, the election official was summoned to Raila&rsquo;s Capitol Hill office over the alleged involvement in attempts to doctor the county governor election results. It was found out the official was in constant communication with several agents of an aspirant and a returning officer who were plotting the rigging before they were busted. A Jubilee parliamentary aspirant in Nairobi was nabbed with marked ballot papers on Wednesday night on transit to a polling station on the Thika Superhighway, but bribed her way out. The wealthy aspirant is said to have realised she was being trailed by detectives when she stopped her car and successfully talked her way out of trouble, though she was caught red handed committing an electoral offence. It is not clear why the incident was not reported to the Jubilee headquarters or the aspirant booked. A NASA governor just decided he did not want to attend the opposition rally at Uhuru Park yesterday. Reason? The governor reportedly skipped the event citing fatigue because he had been going through gruelling campaigns. The governor was instead seen busy meeting investors of Asian origin at a high end hotel.