HAS Minority leader Francis Nyenze (pictured) jeopardised his chances of being promoted to a senior role should NASA win on August 8? Well, sources say the Kitui West MP is too ashamed to even attend the alliance&rsquo;s National Coordinating Committee functions. Nyenze had given a seven-day ultimatum for NASA to declare Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka the presidential standard bearer or Wiper would go it alone. It turned out the threat was just hot air. Nyenze has now become a villain in the eyes of some of his colleagues, who claim he behaved like a Jubilee agent. Since Kalonzo was named the NASA second-in-command, the party has remained tight-lipped, maybe satisfied that their clamour was not in vain, after all.***** WHO actually organised and bankrolled the pro-ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi protests in Kakamega? Well, the protesters carried huge banners that are well written. Those in the know claim they cost a fortune. Was Mudavadi in the know that a demo was in the offing? Some NASA insiders were heard complaining that the ongoing narrative in the Luhya community that Mudavadi has been shortchanged would hurt the Alliance, by triggering voter apathy. They further allege that anti-NASA forces could have infiltrated the Opposition.***** IS a senior Jubilee MP from Central facing an uphill task in his reelection bid? Well, the once vocal government defender and close ally of the President has all of a sudden hibernated from the political limelight. His allies claim the hibernation is a strategic retreat to consolidate his support base, following a ferocious onslaught from his 2013 rival. The wealthy opponent is said to be bankrolled by tycoons from Kiambu county and has literally pitched tent in the constituency. The MP, who was at some point a member of the infamous Sky Team - a group of MPs who after the last election kicked off high-flying harambees - is such a worried man that he may not make it to the 12th Parliament.**** WELL, where is Senate Majority leader Kithure Kindiki? The former powerful and influential Jubilee bigwig is nowhere to be seen in high-level JP rallies, including those attended by the President and the DP. Is the Tharaka Nithi senator under any siege from his opponents or has he run broke? The senator, once a fierce Jubilee defender, was last seen at the Kasarani Gymnasium during the JP launch and since then, he has assumed a low profile, only focussing on his reelection bid.