Family and friends of the late Churchill Show comedian Emmanuel Makori Nyambane alias Ayeiya Poa Poa on Wednesday paid glowing tribute to the artiste.Ayeiya died in a road accident on Magadi Road after his car hit an electricity pole near Catholic University of Eastern Africa on Friday, April 14.[VIDEO] Churchill comedian Ayieya dies in road accidentAlso read: Ayeiya Poa Poa's signature won't be forgotten, Uhuru says after comedian's deathHe was with award winning actor Maina Olwenya, comedian Paul 'Wakimani' Ogutu, his wife Alice Njoki and a friend.Emotions ran high as Churchill Show host Daniel Ndambuki led Ayeiya's colleagues from the Laugh Industry to pay their last respect at Nairobi Pentecostal Church, Karen.Here is what the wife said:"Dear Emmanuell (Manu), it hurts that I have to write this at such a time. Couldn't imagine one day you would not be here. You were more than a partner to me, you were my friend, the only man our kid Tamara called &lsquo;daddy&rsquo;. You made sure we became a prayerful family. I still have your dreams with me. Tamara will attend shule poa poa sana with the help of God.Why did you have to leave me alone? I still remember our best valentine when you dedicated a bible to me. you taught me virtues one needed in this world, since you were kind to everyone you always taught me about sharing, you were apologetic always. I have never seen a young man who loved his family like you did. Tamara will miss you, I don&rsquo;t know how she will cope with the fact that you won&rsquo;t be there to see her off to school.I love you and will miss you my prayer partner. you used to tell me prayers solve everyone and even now that you are gone all i have is prayer and the joyful daughter you have left behind, she has your joke. it hurts to say this but goodbye my prayer partner, manu, baba tamara, babe and ayeiyaa poa poa as your fans knew you. till we meet again."Ayeiya's sister Bosibori Makori, eulogised him as a hardworking, God-fearing, humble, loving, caring, ever jovial and an inspirational person.Comedian Njoro paid tribute to his close friend and read the message from the Churchill Show fraternity.He said: "We used to hustle together and we referred to each other as muchina (local name which refers to a person who tarmacs in search of a job). We met 10 years ago and became close friends. he was a hardworking man and every day we hustled, he would mention that he was doing it for his young family."Ayeiya will be laid to rest tomorrow at his parents home in Nyansiongo, Kisii County alongside his grandmother who passed away a week ago.The comedian loved his young family; wife Alice and daughter Tamara so much.Well, here are photos of Ayeiya&rsquo;s beautiful wife and daughter:Ayeiya's daughter TamaraAyeiya's wife Alice Njoki (C) during the mass at Nairobi Pentecostal Church, Karen, Wednesday, April 19, 2017. /CAREN NYOTA