President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday pitched for the &ldquo;Buy Kenya, Build Kenya to create jobs for the youth&rdquo; when he visited a grand sale to export quality cheap branded new clothes. The sale at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi openedon Wednesday. "This initiative accords Kenyans an opportunity to access quality, locally made affordable clothes with prices range from Sh100 to Sh600 for the same clothes that are sold at Sh6,000 in the US and UK Markets,&rdquo; Uhuru said. The &ldquo;First Ever Super Sale&rdquo; is an initiative by the Ministry of Industry in partnership with Textiles and Apparel companies at the Export Processing Zones both in Nairobi and Mombasa. It features companies that export for some of the biggest brands in the world, including Hela clothing that opened the first intimate clothing production line in Kenya and has exported for brands such as Victoria Secret and Calvin Klein. Other companies are United Aryan, New Wide, Mombasa Apparel and Africa Apparel exporting to the US and UK market. Uhuru ordered the ministry to extend the sale to other cities and towns across the country. The Nairobi sale &ndash; which has attracted over 50,000 buyersin three days&ndash; has also been extended toSaturdaynight."This initiative is important in creating jobs for our youth," the President said. In a bid to continue to promote local production, Uhuru said the government issued VAT and duty exemption for export processing companies to sell 20 per cent of their production to the domestic market. He observed that apart from creating jobs, the initiative is also geared towards restoring the dignity of Kenyans by ensuring that can buy brand new clothes instead of second hand clothes. The apparel and textile sector &ndash; which is at the heart of the government&rsquo;s industrialisation agenda &ndash; has created 22,000 employment opportunities over the last three years with a potential of creating another 100,000 jobs. It is a key plank of growing Kenya&rsquo;s industry-focused economy in the near term, with exports to the US under the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).