Health experts in Kenya and globally have expressed their disappointment after the World Health Organisation did not include tuberculosis to the list of bacteria which pose the greatest threat to human health. This comes two days after the body published a list of twelve bacteria which are resistant to antibiotics. They want WHO to add tuberculosis to that list. “The absence of TB from this list is shocking. The effort to develop new drugs to cure TB has always been chronically underfunded despite the disease’s impact. TB is the world’s deadliest infectious disease, killing 1.8 million people annually,” President and CEO of TB Mel Spigelman said in a statement. Tuberculosis is caused by a type of bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis, kills 1.8 million people globally annually. The list categorizes bacteria into critical, high and medium priority groups, according to the urgency of need for new antibiotics. The most critical group includes multi-drug resistant bacteria that pose a particular threat in hospitals and nursing homes. The bacteria on this list can cause severe and often deadly infections such as bloodstream infections and pneumonia. The high and medium priority categories – contain other increasingly drug-resistant bacteria that cause more common diseases such as gonorrhoea and food poisoning caused by salmonella. The WHO said the 12 bacteria have built-in abilities to find new ways to resist treatment and can pass along genetic material that allows other bacteria to become drug-resistant as well. “Tuberculosis, whose resistance to traditional treatment has been growing in recent years, was not included in the list because it is targeted by other, dedicated programs. Other bacteria that were not included, such as streptococcus A and B and chlamydia, have low levels of resistance to existing treatments and do not currently pose a significant public health threat.” Said a statement from WHO. Head of National Tuberculosis Leprosy & Lung Disease Program Enos Masini told the Star termed this move as a loss in the fight against drug resistant TB. “We have not taken this news very well because looking at the statistics, close a quarter of the burden of anti microbial resistance is a attributed to TB so its exclusion therefore means that that problem will not be sorted out,” Masini said. The burden of drug resistance TB in Africa and globally takes a huge toll in terms of costs and duration of treatment as well as the impact it has on those on treatment. “The anti microbial resistance program will now be a loss for drug resistance TB as it will not benefit much from the political will, support and policies that will come from the program. Stop TB partnership country coordinator Evelyn Kibuchi said that if TB won’t be added then donor funding will be affected. “It is so unfortunate that WHO can leave out TB in that list. I would have expected that it would actually be an area to of priority. So if WHO thinks that it is not a priority, then donors who support TB treatment might pull out.” Kibuchi added.