ODM leaders in Kwale county were caught giving out cash ahead of nominations set for on April 11. They have said they will continue doing so even after the primaries despite laws prohibiting this.Politicians have hit the ground running with campaigns for the primaries that will also take place in Mombasa and Kilifi counties on that day.Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori, governor aspirant Speaker Sammy Ruwa, senator hopeful Issah Juma and woman representative aspirant Fatuma Masito have been meeting party members in various wards to drum up support for their team.They held the meetings from Thursday to Sunday last week.The politicians have lashed out at opponents in ODM and other parties at the meetings and wooed supporters for votes in the run up to the August 8 general election.At a gathering of about 2,000 supporters at St Joseph Hall, the leaders are said to have given a total of Sh285,000.Dori said they will visit the entire county and give money before, during and after the nominations and even after the general election.&ldquo;Hii safari imeanza na musitishike. Tarehe kumi na moja ikifika mwende kwenye vituo vyenu mtupigie kura. Na ninawahakikishia tutabumula watu vilivyo. Leo tutabumula na siku ya mchujo mkimaliza kupiga kura pia tutabumula watu,&rdquo; he said.This loosely translates to: &ldquo;The journey has begun... don't fret. Vote for us during the nominations...we will give you money today, after the nominations and after the general election."Envelopes containing the Sh285,000 given to ODM supporters by a team of politicians led by Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori during a meeting at St Joseph Catholic church hall in Diani. ALLOYS MUSYOKADori read out the amount that each politician contributed at the gathering.Amid applause by supporters, Juma said: &ldquo;Thank you very much. I have a small amount here... only Sh25,000...accept it."Woman representative aspirant Fatuma Masito asked the people to turn up in large numbers for the primaries. She said only her team can lead the county in the right direction.The leaders said they will ensure Jubilee Party does not win any seat in the county. They were accompanied by several sitting and aspiring MCAs.Several leaders have given cash at gatherings despite laws barring politicians from doing so within eight months to the general election.Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and five MCAs gave cash donations during a harambee at Mboroga Methodist Church in February.Kiraitu contributed Sh40,000 while Titus Ntuchiu, his proposed running mate for Meru governor, gave Sh20,000."The law does not allow us to participate in this ... because we will be barred and disqualified. But because your ministry is my neighbour you will come to tell me [how fat the house has gone] and I will come as the Meru governor," Kiraitu said.More on this: Kiraitu risks ban from poll for giving cash at harambeeIgembe South MP Mithika Linturi gave a Sh500,000 cash donation at a function in March.Politicians eying any seats were barred from participating in harambees as guests from December 7 last year.The IEBC aligned its Electoral Operations Plan (EOP) for the poll to Election Laws Amendments Act, 2016.Section (64) (1d) bars aspirants and their representatives from making "any gift, loan, offer, promise procurement or agreement ... to procure the vote". It states that this amounts to the offence of bribery.The ban will remain in force until after the August 8 general election. Any politician who contravenes the law risks being disqualified from contesting.Read more: Linturi defies election laws, gives Sh500,000 at church function