The Communications Authority of Kenya has signed the first three deals for bridging ICT gaps under the accumulating Sh5.5 billion fund. The regulator yesterday awarded three communication firms tenders to connect 896 public secondary schools with broadband as it moved to start using cash under the Universal Service Fund. The deals end a three-year wait on implementation of the project geared at building ICT infrastructure to improve connectivity services in marginalised areas. About Sh5.5 billion has been contributed to the kitty by telecommunications companies and broadcasters at a rate of 0.5 per cent of their gross annual turnover since USF was enforced in 2013. The players have, however, been demanding a say on how the funds are spent, an impasse that has in the past delayed the use of the kitty. The CA, however, said it had resolved the stand-off, paving way for implementation of the first phase &ndash;the education broadband connectivity at a cost of Sh836 million.The regulator awarded Liquid Telcom Ltd a Sh218-million tender to connect 321 schools in 14 counties. Xtranet Communication will connect 284 schools in 15 counties at a cost of Sh318.8 million, while Commcarrier Satellite Services has won a Sh299.2 million deal to connect 291 schools in 18 counties with high-speed internet. &ldquo;Allow me to point out that this was an open tender that was advertised in the local dailies in September 2016, which saw 13 firms submitting their bids,&rdquo; CA chairman Ngene Gituku said yesterda. &ldquo;The project will improve access to education through digital learning.&rdquo; The government is targeting to connect 9,942 secondary schools under the project. The project&rsquo;s operation will be funded by CA and the Ministry of Education in the next five years. CA director-general Francis Wangusi said the authority will also automate school libraries in 27 counties. &ldquo;We have tested our ability to roll out broadband and now we are implementing the first phase,&rdquo; Wangusi said during the tender award. The fund was established to facilitate regulatory interventions to ensure universal access to ICT services.