Kiambu Governor William Kabogo on Tuesday night conceded defeat shortly after the nomination results started trickling in.The initial results indicated Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu was leading with a large margin, forcing Kabogo to throw in the towel. This raises the question of just what could have gone wrong that led to Kabogo losing.Kiambu county has experienced endless wrangles since 2013 between the incumbent governor, the 12 elected MPs and a section of MCAs.Most of these leaders did not see eye-to-eye with Kabogo and they termed his leadership &ldquo;a one man show&rdquo;.Kabogo&rsquo;s fiercest rivals were MPs Jude Njomo (Kiambu Town), Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a (Thika Town) and Kimani Ichung&rsquo;wa of Kikuyu. Ngewa MCA Karungo Wa Thang&rsquo;wa also never shied away from telling off the governor for allegedly ignoring the opinions and priorities of Kiambu residents.The fire was ignited after Waititu entered the Kiambu political arena through a by-election in 2015. This was after then Kabete MP George Muchai was shot dead.Kabogo&rsquo;s woes started when he settled for Thika town as the headquarters of the county, which was not gazetted. The move irked residents, since Kiambu town was the gazetted place for the county headquarters.Then Kabogo&rsquo;s government introduced the 2013-14 Finance Act, in which residents were to pay levies for rearing chickens and keeping pets in their homes.It also introduced exorbitant levies and high business permits, which were contested by residents in court. The Act was nullified.The Finance Acts of the following years were also contested in court.Due to pressure, the governor gave a 50 per cent waiver of all fees and charges. Residents have also said they were rarely given a chance during public participation and, when given a chance, their views were never factored in any law.Residents also termed Kabogo &ldquo;flamboyant, arrogant, self-centered and incompetent&rdquo;.He also allegedly insulted women.&ldquo;I gave my vote to Waititu because Kabogo insulted us, telling us that he was giving us money to buy inner-wear. He also tells poor residents that when given rice, they view the person who has given them the rice as their &lsquo;god&rsquo;. This is arrogance and we are fed up,&rdquo; Limuru resident Grace Wanjiru said. Others interviewed by the Star said Kabogo told residents to &ldquo;queue in two lines like the breasts of a dog&rdquo;, when he was dishing out cash. This incensed residents.Residents also said the county employees, especially the law enforcers, have been harassing and intimidating them. &ldquo;We are harassed by the county government officials for being late to pay levies. We are treated like criminals,&rdquo; Kiambu town resident David Njau said.Kabogo, who is said to have dished out money during his meet-the-people tours, had also been labelled &ldquo;Hotel 300&rdquo; for giving out Sh300 to people.&ldquo;We patiently waited for the governor in centres, where he would meet residents and dish out money. But we vowed we will take his money and vote for change,&rdquo; another resident said.It is said Kabogo did not see his downfall coming, as he was confident he would win. &ldquo;Even if he moves to another party, Kiambu residents will not vote him back,&rdquo; resident Dennis Ngamau said.