Defending champions Kabras Sugar take on four-time champions KCB in today&rsquo;s Kenya Cup final at KCB Sports Club Ruaraka starting 4pm. The match is a repeat of 2015 final, where the two teams met with KCB emerging winners with a 27-3 score margin.Kabras made it to the final after eliminating Menegai Cream Homeboyz 22-17 in the semis while KCB edged eight-time winners Kenya Harlequins 19-12.Kabras will be aiming to break the jinx of failing to beat their hosts in all encounters and defend the cup which they won last season. In all their five meetings since the sugar men made their debut in the cup, KCB have reaped four wins, making their opponents winless in their five meetings. The battle will see the two coaches, who featured for KCB as players a decade ago, meet in the final for the second time after the 2015 final, where KCB&rsquo;s Curtis Olago won against Kabras&rsquo; Anthony Ogot.KCB have been motivated by the return of Kenya Sevens captain Andrew Amonde to the squad and Nick Ongeri, who will feature in the final after signing from Mwamba. Kabras will on the other hand, welcome Philip Worokach, who missed their semi-final against Homeboyz as the Ugandan was away at the Hong Kong Sevens.In an interview, KCB coach Curtis Olago said: &ldquo;We have prepared well for the final and we are ready to face our opponents who are not new to us. We hope to maintain the unbeaten record against Kabras in Saturday&rsquo;s final and dethrone them. I call upon all home fans and rugby fans to come in large numbers and cheer our team.&rdquo; He further cautioned his players not to take the privilege of playing a final at home ground to underrate their opponents.His Kabras&rsquo; counterpart Anthony Ogot said: &ldquo;We are used to traveling and results are never influenced by fan base. We will play our part and we hope to subdue our opponents against all the odds. We have no pressure as defending champions to retain the cup but we will do what it takes to retain it. We have no injuries in our team and therefore there is reason to stumble in the final.&rdquo;The final will be officiated by Constant Cap assisted by Victor Oduor and Moses Ndung&rsquo;u. Tickets for the game are selling at Sh400.