 As Kenya’s head of state, President
Uhuru Kenyatta always makes news. Lately, he has been criticised for
constantly addressing the public in his vernacular language. Those disapproving
this trend have reminded us that he is the President of 43 nations, including
the Makonde, and should, therefore, speak in the language(s) that all these people
can understand. Let us therefore unpack why the President and other politicians
make this advertent linguistic choice. A choice that has been portrayed as ill
advised. The human brain has two systems — the
rational and the emotional. To comprehend how the two systems work concertedly,
visualise yourself going on a journey riding an elephant. As the rider, you
represent the rational system. You plan, analyse, make decisions, solve
problems and control your thoughts and actions. The elephant represents the
emotional system. He is unpredictable, irrational, erratic, mechanical and is
the energy and drive (J Haidt). Often, the elephant will follow the
rider’s directions. When the rider pulls the reins, it communicates to the
elephant which direction to turn, to stop or to proceed.  However, there are times when the elephant
defies the rider’s instructions. The rider then tries to coax the elephant,
drag it or push it to continue with the journey. Unfortunately, the weight
imbalance accords the elephant a six tonne advantage over the rider. This
renders the rider powerless. To cajole the elephant to cooperate, the rider
resorts to tapping into his emotions and doing whatever is necessary along the
path to allow for easy progress. To apply this analogy to our
democratic reality come election season, our politicians are the riders. We,
the voters, are the elephant. It would therefore be foolhardy for the rider to
think that they can overpower the elephant. It has been said that politics is
the art of persuasion. The Greek philosopher Aristotle, framed this best when
he postulated that there are three appeals of persuasion; ethos, pathos and
logos. Every intelligent politician knows that in order to persuade your
audience that your thesis is valid and makes the most sense, your discourse
needs to engage them using a dominant triad but interspersed with the other two.
The intention is two-fold: One, to solidify or sway the audience’s
opinion, and two, to make the audience act in the speaker’s favour. Let us now examine how President Uhuru
has deliberately applied this triad. Logos is persuasion by use of
reasoning. This includes critical cognition, analytical skills, good memory and
purposeful behaviour. When the President gives a State of
the Nation address or the keynote speech during a public holiday, he largely
employs logos. He chooses to appeal to his audience’s logic by offering
credible evidence and facts to support his remarks. In this address, he
amplifies his government’s achievements by articulating examples of the
projects and initiatives undertaken, authoritatively backing it up using
statistical presentations, and provides an analysis of projected benefits
likely to be realised or currently being enjoyed by the citizens. In using logos persuasion, his
personal presentation is always purposeful. It is choreographed to include when
to pause, when to make eye contact, when to be humorous, and when to speak off
the cuff. His attire also portrays a seriousness, which befits this art of
persuasion. To persuade an even wider audience,
his government has launched the national public information portal that visually
portrays investments and achievements over the last four years. Pictures, they
say, are worth a thousand words and hence can be quite persuasive. This is why
they have ingeniously chosen to portray a contrast of before and after
milestones using black and white, and coloured pictures, respectively. Successful marketers will tell you
that a sale is not made only through presentation of facts and logic. These
only succeed in changing somebody’s mind when your audience demands them. That
is why using the ethos as the dominant triad is just as important. The ethos appeal involves convincing
your audience that you can be trusted. This triad of persuasion attempts to
show the speaker as fair, concerned and reliable. The intention of the speaker
is to earn the audience’s faith. To earn this trust, the speaker must offer an
argument that is deemed credible. Recently when President Uhuru was
campaigning in Narok, he paraded several Maasai professionals that hold
prominent positions in his government. The intention was to gain the credence
of the Maasai community, by showing them that he is a politician that could be
trusted to secure the community’s interests. This ethos appeal was echoed by Johnson
ole Nchoe, the chief executive of Geothermal Development Company, when he spoke
on behalf of those present, saying he did not understand why the community was
still entertaining the opposition despite the President rewarding them by
appointing their sons to key government positions. Similarly, this is the
persuasive triad that the President is using in enlisting wealthy businessmen,
professionals and government officials to drive his reelection campaigns in
regions perceived to be NASA strongholds. Finally, pathos seeks to engage an
audience emotionally. When speakers use pathos as the predominant triad, they
carefully choose words that carry appropriate connotations. The speakers use
pathos to sway their audience to their desirable emotional action. Their
intention is to kindle passions that enlist their support. And what better way
to ignite emotions than with your own, whom you share a cultural identity with. Culture has a profound impact on how
people display, perceive and experience emotions. And knowledge of how people culturally
react to certain paradigms, equips the speaker with oral ammunition on how to
persuade them (Haviland and Malatesta). The reality is that culture precedes
politics. Visually presented, culture is the dog and politics is its tail. And
the dog wags the tail. This is why politics can only do what the culture allows
it to. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is
precisely why President Uhuru addresses his elephant in Kikuyu. And this is
smart politics.  Reason is the slave of passions - David Hume  The writer is a political economist