Wiper nominees for the Changamwe MP and Mombasa senator are Daniel Muange and Lawrence Kisilu.The party&rsquo;s national elections and appeals board on Friday upheld their nominations after hearing the petitions filed by their rivals Peterson Mitau and Jabess Oduor.The board requested the party national elections board to issue the two with certificates. The certificates will be issued on Wednesday at the party headquarters in Nairobi.&ldquo;The board directs and/or recommends the disqualification of Mitau. The appeals board, therefore, directs that the nomination certificate for the party&rsquo;s candidate for Changamwe constituency be issued to Muange,&rdquo; chairman Elijah Matibo-signed letter read in part.Disputed resultsMitau on April 20 appealed against Muange&rsquo;s win. The board, in a letter signed by vice chairman Samson Masila, cancelled the victory.Muange was declared winner with 1,101 votes, while Mitau had 1,069. Francis Mulige was third with 526. But Mitau said he got 1,069 votes against Muange&rsquo;s 806.Oduor said he won with 6,200 votes against Kisilu&rsquo;s 3,400. However, the board said the complaint lacked merit.&ldquo;The board, therefore, sustained the nomination of Lawrence Kisilu as the party&rsquo;s duly nominated candidate for the Senate position in Mombasa county,&rdquo; the letter dated April 28 read.Oduor was arrested and charged after allegedly storming a polling station and causing chaos.Muange and Kisilu welcomed the decisions and said justice was done.Let&rsquo;s work together&ldquo;I urge the Wiper family to work together to deliver the seats. We thank the party leadership for showing unity and direction,&rdquo; Kisilu said.Muange urged losers to honour the deal they struck to back the winner.&ldquo;I thank the people of Changamwe for overwhelmingly showing faith in me. I promise to deliver the seat and ensure their living standards improve,&rdquo; he added.Appeals halted joint campaignsThe appeals had halted joint campaigns for the party. They were to be led by secretary general Hassan Omar, who is running for Mombasa governor.On Sunday, Omar said the party is focussed on winning the governor seat, the Changamwe MP seat and at least 11 MCA slots.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy that even here in Mombasa, most of the grievances raised have been resolved,&rdquo; he said.