Do not insult a crocodile whilst your buttocks are still in the river, states a Zambian proverb. Jubilee Party did exactly that as they guffawed and ridiculed the shambolic ODM election primaries. They went a stage further and promised &lsquo;state-of-the-art&rsquo; primaries bereft of the violence and disorganisation and sheer chaos witnessed in ODM.An upbeat Jubilee Party leader Uhuru Kenyatta took to the podium on the eve of the primaries promising a flawless election. But all hell broke loose upon the commencement of the primaries. Confusion, violence and protests, including the burning of ballot boxes and materials, reigned. In an unprecedented move Jubilee was forced to cancel nominations in 21 counties. Kenyans watched in disbelief as primaries in the Jubilee strongholds of Central, Rift Valley and Upper Eastern went up in smoke! What went wrong?Truth be told, TNA and URP, which form the bulk of Jubilee, have never held competitive nominations. Formed in 2013 as election vehicles to propel the dynamic duo of Uhuru and William Ruto to power, they were under no legal obligation to hold primaries as newly formed parties. They therefore hand-picked their candidates and handed them direct nomination certificates.Therein lies the hypocritical nature of our national politics. Persons of doubtful integrity and qualifications were carried to Parliament by party euphoria. When subjected to an open, free and fair nomination most of these candidates could not take the heat, thus resorting to underhand tactics in attempts to rig or disrupt the electoral process.The same applied in the ODM camp where nominations were violently disrupted. If this is a precursor of what to expect at the forthcoming August presidential and general election, then this country is at a very dark place in its history. Justice Johann Kriegler had warned that failure to prepare and manage future electoral processes properly may lead to post-election violence whose scale will make 2007-08 look like a Sunday picnic.Party nominations are critical to free and fair elections that reflect the will of the people. Many Kenyans believe that bungled nominations were one of the triggers of the 2007-08 PEV. As matters currently stand neither Jubilee nor NASA appear to be in a position to deliver credible nominations. Tenets of democracy are not being adhered to and ballot stuffing, vote rigging and violence are the order of the day.The IEBC timelines are so tight that the possibility of an extension of time is a very remote possibility. Without any intention of appearing to be doomsayer, we are walking on a political minefield. That our leaders are now engaged in finger-pointing and ridiculing each other over the shambolic nominations is not only irresponsible but callous to the extreme. This is no time for brinkmanship or chest-thumping. The country is staring at what could turn out to be a crisis of unprecedented proportions. What we require are level-headed statesmen to steer us clear of impending disaster.The IEBC has, for reasons best known to them, declined to conduct party nominations. Political parties in recent days have shown that they lack the capacity to carry out nationwide nominations. Indeed, the logistics involved, at least for the major parties, amount to a mini-general election. The costs involved are beyond their capacity, and if we honestly want to nurture our nascent democracy, it is important that the state factors funds for the IEBC to cover election primaries in the Budget.Anything short of that is a recipe for disaster. Some difficult decisions must now be made to avoid a replication of what we have witnessed recently. The hiccups we have seen in nominations are systemic and cut across the political divide. That is why the small parties very wisely opted for direct nominations. It is not about personalities and definitely not about Raphael Tuju, a cog in a big wheel.