Posta Rangers stayed top of the Kenya Premier League following a 1-0 win over Sony Sugar in Awendo. Joseph Obwoge scored the lone goal in the 50th minute after a cross from Joseph Nyaga. Obwoga, who was dangerous throughout the match, was twice denied by the width of the post in the closing minutes of the match.Posta now have 17 points&mdash;one ahead of Gor Mahia&mdash;who grinded out a 2-1 win over Bandari at the Mbaraki Sports Club. Innocent Wafula, making his first start of the season, was gave the former league champions an early lead after barely 11 minutes of play. Wafula curled a beautiful shot past Bandari custodian Joseph Okoth after receiving a pass from Godfrey Walusimbi for a 1-0 lead.Bandari fought back and dominated possession as they tried to unsettle th visitors with pace. Former Gor player Danny Sserunkuma almost levelled matters but Gor keeper Boniface Oluoch raced off the line to clear the danger as Gor led 1-0 into the break. On resumption, Gor coach Ze Maria brought in Amos Nondi for Kenneth Muguna with Bandari bringing in Fred Nkata for Sserunkuma. Bandari came out firing on all cylinders and were awarded a penalty in the 51st minute when Musa Mohamed was adjudged to have brought down Shaban Kenga in the box. Noah Abich made no mistake from the penalty spo, sending Oluoch the wrong way to tie the match at 1-1Ze Maria made another change at the hour mark, introducing Olivier Maloba, who had an immediate impact. He delivered across to the overlapping Ugandan import Geoffrey Walusimbi, who tucked in the ball to restore K&rsquo;Ogalo&rsquo;s lead which they never relinquished. Former AFC Leopards midfielder Charles Okwemba returned to haunt his former club as he bagged the lone goal for Sofapaka in a 1-0 win over Leopards in Machakos.Okwemba scored the decisive strike in the 48th minute after his shot took a deflection past a stranded Ian Otieno in the Leopards&rsquo; goal. The win pushes the 2009 champions to third place on 14 points, three behind leaders Posta Rangers.Ulinzi Stars unbeaten start to the season ended after losing 1-0 to 10-man Kakamega Homeboyz at Mumias. Old boy Wycliffe Ochomo scored in the fourth minute to give the hosts all three points. Chemelil Sugar drew 0-0 with slum boys Mathare United. Nzoia Sugar edged Western Stima 2-0 , thanks to goals from Boniface Omondi and Jack Aluoch while Thika United miserable form continued with a 1-0 loss to new boys Kariobangi Sharks. Rodgers Omondi scored the lone goal in the 63rd minute.