PREPARATIONS for the 12th General Election in Kenya on August 8 still look very much like a construction site on all sides, bar the incumbent Jubilee Party. In terms of election preparedness, JP appears to be well ahead.On Thursday, JP headquarters and secretariat boss Raphael Tuju, the ruling party&rsquo;s secretary general, announced it had collected more than Sh800 million from over 8,000 prospective candidates. Jubilee&rsquo;s nominations on April 21 will have 8,102 aspirants going for its ticket. Tuju, one of the most organized secretaries general of a ruling party in Kenya since Kanu&rsquo;s legendary Tom Mboya, is running a smooth machine at JP HQ at Pangani Junction, Nairobi. The kind of chaos, fear, loathing and humiliation that erupted at Orange House, ODM HQ, a day before Tuju calmly reeled off JP&rsquo;s impressive figures is unimaginable at Pangani Junction on his watch. As the Star reported, Nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro stormed Orange House grounds accompanied by hundreds of rowdy youths and women. They roughed up Executive Director Oduor Ong'wen and wrestled him to the ground, leaving him bruised and traumatised. Ongoro was barred from running for Ruaraka MP on disciplinary grounds but has accused the party's National Elections Board of malice and corruption. The spectacle of ODM national youth chairman John Ketora firing several times in the air to disperse the rowdy youths painted a picture of a deeply divided party prone to violence. It was almost as if Orange House had no security whatsoever. This severe embarrassment came hard on the heels of the violence in Migori county on Monday in which a visit by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed turned so rowdy that gunfire rent the air and shots were fired at people on the VIP podium and a bodyguard of Joho&rsquo;s was hit and hospitalized. Bullets were fired at vehicles in Joho&rsquo;s convoy as it fled the chaos. Jubilee has had its instances of violent and disruptive nominations preparations, but not of this scale of chaos at headquarters or on VIP podiums. In terms of election preparedness, the law requires membership lists be deposited at the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties. It is doubtful that all parties have complied with this law. Jubilee has recruited members in a three-pronged and closely interrelated strategy. When it merged a dozen parties in September 2016, JP had 4.5 million members, a flying start by any measure. Using huge billboards and the 30553 SMS, Jubilee recruited 2 million more members. The Jubilee smartcard, Africa&rsquo;s first digitized political party membership tool, sold at Sh20 via the 30553 SMS and was applied for using your ID number and also capturing members&rsquo; mobile phone numbers. By the end of its intensive membership drive, Jubilee had 8.7 million verifiable, contactable and confirmable warm-blooded members. Jubilee&rsquo;s level of preparedness for both its primaries and the main event on August 8 is clearly head and shoulders above an Opposition that still has to get its act together on the factor of unity and a unified candidate. There has been some controversy about the use of the smartcard in the JP primaries but the party&rsquo;s National Election Board will announce where and how the cards will be used. In the strongholds the smartcard will be essential to access polling stations; other methods will be used in other areas. The big idea behind the smartcard was to prevent infiltration by Opposition competing parties and from friendly fire competition from parties like PNU and Narc-K. Jubilee nominations ballot papers will feature aspirants&rsquo; photos and names and the ruling party will rent ballot boxes from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The mega party&rsquo;s primaries will be a ferociously well-organised one-day event, with 47 county electoral boards reporting to the National Electoral Board led by Nairobi lawyer Andrew Muchangi and the Disputes Resolution Board led by Mombasa lawyer Lumatete Muchai. Jubilee has clear structures and methods to rollout the primaries. NASA has prevaricated for so long its joint primaries increasingly look like something that will never happen. Like them or hate them, no other party has undertaken such preparedness for the primaries and Election Day than the ruling party. When the Constitution is next amended, the law of the land should make it mandatory that political parties&rsquo; membership lists be digitized and verifiable right down to the all-important matter of mobile telephone number. After all, there are more registered mobile phone users in Kenya than there are registered party members and voters.