It may take Kenya Airways up to eight months to be cleared to fly directly to the US, the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority said yesterday, citing the lengthy approval process by the US authorities. KQ, as it is know by its international airline code, has to seek clearance from the US Federal Aviation Administration before starting direct flights. The all-important permits are the Air Service Licence which will allow KQ to operate commercial flights and the Air Operating Certificate which will be given after the airline's technical capacity is assessed and approved. &ldquo;The US has to audit the airline to ensure it has technical capacity to operate,&rdquo; KCAA director-general Gilbert Kibe told the Star. &ldquo;For Kenya, the evaluation process will take up to eight months.&rdquo; The FAA awarded the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport &ldquo;Category One&rdquo; status on February 23, creating excitement in the industry. This is the mandatory status any airport requires to be allowed to handle direct flights to the US. JKIA also has to be granted the &ldquo;last point of departure&rdquo; license. The KCAA yesterday said KQ has to seek two crucial licenses-the Air Service License which gives it commercial approval and the Air Operating Certificate, which gives it technical authority to operate to the US. The National carrier will also have to apply for traffic rights and negotiate for slots and schedules at the airports they seek to land and take-off from. KQ has kicked off code sharing negotiations with its Skyteam Alliance partner and American carrier Delta Air Line, which could see it test the US airspace earlier as it awaits clearance by the FAA. Code sharing is an agreement between two or more airlines to list certain flights in a reservation system under each other's names ( share the same flight). KQ said in an email response to the Star it has started the clearance process with US authorities. &ldquo;Kenya Airways is currently fast tracking the commercial evaluations and discussions with the relevant authorities to determine the viability and timings of operations to the US,&rdquo; corporate communications manager Wanjiku Mugo said. &ldquo;When this is complete, we shall advise.&rdquo; &#8203;The commercial evaluation will determine if KQ has the capacity required to fly to the US. KQ is counting on its Boeing 787- Dreamliner fleet to fly directly to the US from Nairobi. Direct flights, however, does not mean non-stop travel. A direct flight makes at least one intermediate stop along the way to its final destination, but has only one flight number. This is different from A nonstop flight which is a single flight between two airports with no stops. KQ currently has a fleet of 36 aircraft comprising of Boeing 787 Dreamliner, Boeing 737-800, Boeing 737-700 and Embraer 190. Direct flights will be a major boost for trade and tourism.