Millions of Kenyans live on a shoestring budget. The current rate of inflation is not good for anyone. Even the rich complain about fuel, food and other commodities being pricey. There&rsquo;s no one who is not directly affected by this.This has resulted in Kenyans having a hand-to-mouth lifestyle. They just work to survive -- not even make their lives better.We recently came across a deep, touching story about how a Kenyan lady overcame this and shaped her destiny.Mrs. Damarice Waceke who is now a property owner and entrepreneur had something happen to her which she never imagined would happen in her life. She had a resolve to invest and made a decision to go for a simple loan. This proved to be the best decision of her life.She took a loan from Letshego Kenya Limited and this was the turning point. It was easy and it was straight forward.Gone are the days when you could sit, wonder and wish as you try to figure where to get a loan for your business. It's now become easier to fulfill your ambitions. We have now entered the age of getting loans quickly and even on your phone.&ldquo;I believe everything is possible in life through hard work and determination&rdquo;, says Damarice&ldquo;We started from humble beginnings &ndash; we used to hustle and work as casual labourers at the Magana Flower Farm, living from hand to mouth.&rdquo;She visited Letshego&rsquo;s Kikuyu branch to determine whether she could qualify for a low-income housing loan.&ldquo;Letshego built me these houses and made my dream come true.&rdquo; she continued.Damaris Waceke's rental apartments. Photo / COURTESYJust like Damarice, over 30,000 Kenyans are benefiting from Letshego&rsquo;s massive financial resource pool.The company provides loans and has several types of provisions. These include Group Lending Loans, Mkopo Chap Chap (E-Loan), Individual or SME Loans among others.So if you are in a situation where you need to start a business ASAP, take advantage of Letshego&rsquo;s 48-hour loan disbursement policy to get started.About Letshego Kenya LimitedLetshego Kenya Limited (Letshego Kenya) provides financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs, individuals and salaried employees in the public and private sector. Letshego Kenya is founded on, and continues to strive towards, the principle of finding the most effective way to implement microfinance in an African context.The company has developed innovative and high quality operational methodologies that actively respond to the financial needs and cultural context of its customer.The company became part of the Letshego group in February 2013 when the holding company, based in Botswana, with operations in 10 African countries, acquired 100% of Micro Africa Group. Its contribution to the group has been to leverage on the microfinance competencies and existing customer base, expand Letshego's geographic coverage, and diversify the group&rsquo;s financial product offering.They aim to transform the livelihoods of customers who are in viable economic activity while creating a rewarding and stimulating work environment for employees.Letshego Kenya is the largest credit only microfinance institution in Kenya. Their slogan is &ldquo;Mikopo Kwa Wote&rdquo; and they aim to give their customers a relationship they can build on.No matter where you are on your journey of business, family life or personal development, you don't have to go it all alone.Need a business loan? Send an email to info@microafricagroup.com or visit any of their branches listed below.