Former St. Bridgit&rsquo;s Girls, Kiminini point-guard Damaris Riana is the only beneficiary of the Brookside university sports scholarship for the year 2017.Among the 12 scouted girls basketball players, Riana is the only one, who met the A- (minus) cut-off mark to merit admission into Strathmore University for the Brookside sports scholarship program.She was unveiled yesterday during the launch of the 2017 Brookside Term One Games in Nairobi. Her school fees amounting to Sh1.3m was also presented to Strathmore University, two weeks after she was admitted to the institution to pursue an undergraduate degree in actuarial science. Riana, a native of Yala, Siaya County, had to overcome all odds to excel both in class work and basketball. She narrated how hard it was for her to balance academics and sports at the beginning but noted that with the help from her coach and class teacher, she made it.&ldquo;In 2015, I almost quit basketball to concentrate on my academics. Striking a balance between class work and sports had become tough. I remember my mother had to come to school to ask my teachers to bar me from playing basketball,&rdquo; Riana vividly remembers.Riana dropped from an &lsquo;A&rsquo; student to attaining a C+ (plus) during the first term of her Form Three. However, with some guidance from her class teacher, Henrita Wanyonyi, coach Alex Wasike and her love and passion for basketball, she struck a balance and was back on track. &ldquo;I really thank my teacher and coach for the guidance. It really counted and I am now at Strathmore ton a basketball scholarship,&rdquo; said Riana who first played basketball in 2013 at St. Bridgit&rsquo;s.Last June, she turned out for the national under-18 team in the Zone V championship and missed her school&rsquo;s internal mock examinations and was ranked last after writing the mathematics paper only.&ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t know how my tertiary education prospects would look like if I had refrained from playing basketball, which was the easiest option. Since I come from a humble background, I resolved that my effort will redeem this situation. I want to thank Brookside and Strathmore for this scholarship program,&rdquo; intimated the 17-year- old Riana who is keen on securing a professional basketball stint in the Women&rsquo;s National Basketball Association (WNBA) in the United States of America.&ldquo;There is a life after playing sport. We (Strathmore) offer sports scholarships because we envision a productive life after playing. We believe that a great player can and should excel as a professional after active playing,&rdquo; intimated Paul Ochieng, the dean of students at Strathmore University.