The final week of March 2017 thrust Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho onto a harsh open-flame grill, allegations of forgery of school grades sizzling hot all over the Press.What caught my eye is how unfazed Joho was in the face of such an indicting allegation. It may seem that Joho&rsquo;s sense of shame is as dead as the dodo. My worry is that, like any other shameless person, honour may mean absolutely nothing to poor Joho!Aside from the moral imperative of allegations of exam impropriety levelled against the Mombasa Governor, lest we forget, this is not the first time Joho has been roasted in the oven over the validity of his academic qualifications. On Sunday May 18, 2014, the Vice-Chancellor of Kampala University, Prof Badru Kateregga, fiercely came to the defence of Joho&rsquo;s qualification whose validity had been doubted by the Uganda Council for Higher Education.Prof Kateregga was responding to a report filed by a committee chaired by SH Nsubuga that had adjudged Joho&rsquo;s university qualification as &ldquo;&hellip;fraudulently obtained&rdquo;. The Nsubuga committee further concluded that Joho, &ldquo;&hellip;neither qualified for admission to the degree programme nor was he subjected to due process&rdquo;.Before I make reference to the most recent hullaballoo over Joho&rsquo;s academic records, let me digress a little.The Kampala University-Joho tussle was and remains exclusively a Ugandan affair, long predating and completely unencumbered by the politics of the qualifications of a governor in Kenya or electoral politics in general. What do those imputing political mischief in the Joho qualifications saga have to say now?In retrospect, the Uganda Council for Higher Education was morally right to get concerned about possible fraud involving university qualifications in Uganda by whomsoever it may be. Indeed, any self-respecting higher education body would be worried about tampering with grades or arbitrary assigning of grades to the undeserving. Why? A degree should never be reduced to a pearl in a pigsty &ndash; period!In the ongoing saga, the moment Joho finally opened his mouth to respond on the allegations about his poor academic performance he audaciously invited Kenyans to see where his D- has taken him. This, sadly, sounded like something only a loony&mdash;who has soiled himself and reeks to high heaven&mdash;could happily pronounce in an open market yard at high noon. Back to Joho. Whether or not he scored an average of D-, it is not the miserable showing in academics that possibly propelled Joho to the success he lays claim to! Rather, it is his vulpine character, chicanery and his ability to conceal or fake that has fuelled his so-called success.What Kenyans should be worried and about and debating, then, is not the A or D that Joho scored or didn&rsquo;t score in High School. Rather, we should be dissecting the content of his character studiously. We should be asking how fit, from an integrity point of view, persons who falsify qualifications are as leaders. Can Kenya afford to resign herself in toto to deceit and calumny? In other words, we shouldn&rsquo;t be saddened by the dearth of shame and disregard for honour in our society more than the grades themselves, which we all now know have been subject to systemic manipulation by unscrupulous persons right inside where exams are administered.Thing is, a person who wouldn&rsquo;t squirm in shame over falsifying school grades would, in all likelihood, have zero scruples in engaging in any type of misdeed, or, indeed, monkey business.Joho&rsquo;s fundamental flaw is that he takes self-esteem to the extreme of egotism. He suffers a very severe case of unwarranted and negative self-esteem. Self-esteem is not necessarily self-awareness &ndash; the latter has a wide range of benefits both to oneself and others. Self-awareness acknowledges other people&rsquo;s feelings, needs and wants. It is also aware of how one&rsquo;s own behavior impacts that of others.No properly and intelligently self-aware grown-up person would style himself &ldquo;Sultan of Mombasa&rdquo; just months before a general election. The sultans were slavers at the Coast and farther afield, committing one of the ultimate crimes against humanity against generations of Africans. Joho will almost certainly suffer from this folly of seeking the drapery of the sultans in an election year. All said, the big question is; Did Joho sit his KCSE in 1992 scoring a C+ as he claims or did he write his Fourth Form Exam in 1993 scoring D-? Embedded in this query and answer thereof is the fundamental issue of Joho&rsquo;s content of character.Nyogot is a Nairobi-based PR Consultant