Not since the days of the late Shariff Nassir has a politician risen from the Coast and captured the imagination of an entire nation like Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has done.Nassir was a Kanu hawk to the core and a diehard supporter of President Daniel arap Moi. Joho is an opposition &lsquo;damu&rsquo; and a key supporter of opposition chief Raila Odinga. Nassir commanded Coast politics and he almost singlehandedly decided who was to represent which constituency in the district and Coast Province as a whole. Joho is fast cutting out a niche for himself as a kingmaker, his moniker Sultan being a good pointer of the larger than life status he is acquiring in Coast - and to some of his admirers, national politics.At the height of his popularity, Nassir suffered an ignoble experience when he was summoned by the then all-powerful Kanu National Disciplinary Committee chaired by former Karachuonyo Kanu chairman David Okiki Amayo.After that Soviet style kangaroo court was done with him, Kenyans were shocked when Nassir cried in public. What hurt him most, he said, was the fact that someone in the committee had referred to him as &lsquo;mwanaharamu&rsquo;, a bastard.And then Kenyans came to know that despite the carefully woven image of a Kanu hawk who had the President&rsquo;s ear round-the-clock, there was a chink in Nassir&rsquo;s armour. Just like the rest of us mere mortals, Nassir was far from invincible.I am drawing from this experience to understand what might befall Joho. It is not in doubt that the man has covered every blade of grass in the field that is Coast politics. Unlike the many &lsquo;anoint me as successor&rsquo; politicians who daily harangue ODM leader Raila Odinga, Joho has earned his place at the table by the strap of his boots.Nobody can claim that Raila has played favourites with Joho. The truth is that the former Kisauni MP has earned his stripes. According to information in the public domain, Joho joined active politics in the year 2004, and became the Kisauni party chairman for the Liberal Democratic Party between 2006-in 2007. He was subsequently appointed an assistant minister for Transport.On March 4, 2013 he was elected Governor of Mombasa.According to the respected The Economist news magazine, &ldquo;He is close to Raila Odinga, Kenya&rsquo;s main opposition leader, and is said to be financing Mr Odinga&rsquo;s Orange Democratic Movement party.&rdquo;Unlike the Nassir of yore, Joho is a man of means, who has time and again shown his might in financing ODM, an undertaking that at one time saw mainly Luo MPs affiliated to the party claim that he was hell-bent on snatching the party from the community&rsquo;s grasp.That Joho is popular, especially in areas where Raila reigns supreme, was evident in the burial two years ago of Raila&rsquo;s son Fidel, when the crowd at Bondo went gaga when the Mombasa governor was called to speak.Joho swiftly used his powers and named a street after the departed Fidel.Some time last year, Joho once again showed his financial prowess when he launched one of the biggest campaign extravaganzas ever seen in the region, featuring fleets of top-of-the-range vehicles branded with Raila&rsquo;s portraits. The occasion was ODM&rsquo;s 10th birthday.However, Joho has had issues mostly touching on the source of his wealth. In 2010, the then Internal Security minister, Prof George Saitoti (now deceased), named Joho among Kenyans suspected of of being top international drug dealers.Saitoti informed the House that MPs Hassan Joho (Kisauni), William Kabogo (Juja), Harun Mwau (Kilome) and Gideon Mbuvi, alias Mike Sonko (Makadara) and Mombasa tycoon Ali Punjani were being investigated for alleged drug trafficking.MPs had demanded to know who among them was being investigated over allegations of being drug barons.Saitoti said the names were in a US embassy dossier that then Ambassador Michael Ranneberger gave to the now-defunct Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission.As his stature increased, Joho attracted the attention of the Jubilee government, which immediately tasked Coast regional commissioner Nelson Marwa the task of &lsquo;containing&rsquo; him. Many are the times the administrator appeared to be fighting Joho although the governor felt that Marwa was a dog barking at the behest of its master, President Kenyatta.Within no time the gloves were off and the President and Joho were squaring it off in public. Whenever Kenyatta was at the Coast, Joho would not hesitate to use every available opportunity to take jabs at the head of state, claiming that the projects he was launching were initiated during the grand coalition government of President Mwai Kibaki and Premier Raila while others were the initiative of the county government.The spats went to the extent that at one time an angry Kenyatta wondered publicly whether Joho thought he (Kenyatta) was his wife. The head of state then warned that the government would deal with Joho.As this verbal tiff was going on a major opportunity presented itself to the President when known Mombasa drug kingpins the Akasha family were whisked away to the United States to stand trial on drug trafficking charges.Soon the grapevine was full of talk that Joho would be next to be taken to the United States. At this time, Jubilee bloggers were falling all over themselves crowing how Joho was finally being exterminated.However, Joho outfoxed them all when a hastily arranged trip to the US saw him make an extensive tour of that country and hold several meetings: Hardly the kind of engagement you would expect from someone with drug charges hovering over his head.Keen to milk the opportunity to the last drop, Joho then made a grand return to Mombasa and effectively stamped his authority there, proving that he was the man to beat in the coming gubernatorial election.Then things started going south. And, as they say, when it rains it pours. First there were claims that Joho was evading taxes. Joho&rsquo;s woes saw his security withdrawn, his bank accounts frozen for a probe by the KRA, his family&rsquo;s container depots shut and a demand by the taxman for his family to pay taxes amounting to Sh90 million.After that came the claims that Joho had forged academic certificates. This week, investigators went to Tom Mboya Primary School to obtain documents and information on whether Joho was a pupil there.EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea sought to know if he was enrolled at the school, particulars of the enrollment, if he sat KCPE there and the grades he attained.Mubea also asked the headmaster of the Tononoka school Joho attended for the Governor&rsquo;s leaving certificate and any other relevant information.Joho had been accused of forging a 1992 examination results slip with a C+ mean grade to gain entry into the University of Nairobi for a Bachelor of Commerce degree in Human Resource Management. Knec said it had proven that the documents presented were forged.The Governor denied the allegations and publicly declared that he was proud of his D- grade. He also recorded a statement with the DCI in Mombasa over this a week ago.Regarding the EACC probe, he emphasised he was not worried and will not interfere with the investigation.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve been told they have gone to ask for my details at my primary school. It is unfortunate that this drama continues instead of such energies being channelled to meaningful issues of development.Joho said it was unfortunate that the EACC was involved in the matter of his academic qualifications.&ldquo;I am not worried. Let them investigate me...my stand will not change,&rdquo; said the fiery governor.Joho earlier said he sat KCSE in 1993, not 1992, as indicated in the forged certificate. The C+ in the forged document is the entry mark for university education.The Governor had said, through county communications director Richard Chacha, that he was expecting his fight with the Jubilee government to get dirtier.&ldquo;We are expecting this [fight] to get dirtier, but we are prepared for it. Let them go even to nursery school. They should not leave any stone unturned,&rdquo; he said.Then came the nasty fight that ensued in Migori where Joho was a guest at the launch of of Suna East MP Junet Mohamed&rsquo;s reelection bid. Migori Governor Okoth Obado, who had opposed the rally, stormed the meeting, which ended in gunshots. Obado made good his threat to prevent ODM from holding a rally in Migori town.The rally in Posta Grounds was completely disrupted when Obado arrived unannounced as Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o addressed the crowd.Immediately after seeing the Governor, the crowd booed and threw water bottles, stones and shoes at the podium.Obado&rsquo;s guards fired in the air. A bullet went through a VIP seat in an area where dignitaries were seated. The seat had bloodstains, but it was not clear which official was shot.Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir told the Star: &ldquo;This was an assassination attempt. They were after Joho. Our car was shot at three times.&rdquo;Will Joho survive this onslaught? The governor is so far riding the storm and is showing no signs of downgrading his fight with the government. In a country where the public normally sides with those perceived as being fought by government, Joho looks like he is sitting pretty.With nearly all the government apparatus arrayed against him, Joho looks cornered and it&rsquo;s only a major counterattack or an act of God that will save him. To their credit, the governor&rsquo;s supporters are already changing the narrative, claiming that it was a clique of power-hungry Mount Kenya tribalists who are fighting Joho. The alleged clique&rsquo;s case is not helped that the heads of Knec KRA, DCI and other government agencies investigating Joho are all from the Kikuyu community, thus giving Joho and his group enough fodder to fight back with.But a school of thought believes that the Mombasa governor is punching way above his weight, if the altercations in Migori are anything to go by. Those in this group feel that Joho should first consolidate his power base at the Coast before purporting to be a powerbroker, especially in a politically charged place like the former Nyanza Province.With the Jubilees determination to lock Joho out of the Mombasa race and the &lsquo;Sultan&rsquo;s&rsquo; resolve to ensure Jubilee does not win the seat, the battle can only get dirtier.