The fulcrum of any political party is its leadership and members. Party ideology, too, is part of the drivers of the party. These elements can build or break a political party, depending on how they are threaded through the fabric.That is why parties must consult members, through their delegates, before making any crucial political move. Following in this tradition, Chama Cha Mashinani last week held a delegates meeting at the IAAF stadium, Bomet county. More than 5,000 delegates attended.The men and women, drawn from the entire width and breath of the South Rift, were there to chaRt a political path that would lead CCM to a coalition.The fact that there was no census among the delegates as to which coalition CCM would join does not imply that it is lost in the wilderness, or is not committed to this course.Party leader and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto is a man attracting attention from both the Jubilee Party and NASA. It is his vibrant and progressive brand of politics and ideologies that have placed him in this covetous position.CCM has enough time to choose its political partner. No one should expect it to rush, and later regret its move. At the meeting, the mood projected by many delegates from Narok county was that Jubilee was a no-go-zone.There are lorry loads of dissatisfaction with Jubilee in the county in the recent past. This is what informed the arguments of some of the delegates who didn&rsquo;t want anyone leading them into a coalition with Jubilee. Jubilee is slowly morphing into a pariah in Narok. Sooner or later, the UhuRuto duo will only be visible in history books.Once beaten, twice shy. This applies to all human beings. Narok county was the darling of Jubilee in 2013 but the romance failed to gain ground and hence, the current fallout. There are three major reasons for this situation: Land, revenue from the expansive Masai Mara Reserve and the Mau Forest.The Maasai are the natives of the county but over the years, Kenyans from other regions bought land and relocated to Narok. Others benefitted from vast lands dished out to politically correct busybodies in Jomo Kenyatta&rsquo;s regime. His son, President Uhuru Kenyatta, is doing nothing to undo the wrongs his father did.Now, there is a hue and cry from the people, who don&rsquo;t understand why their land was given away without their consent. They are seeking answers but Jubilee&rsquo;s honchos seem to be suffering from brain paralysis. Land is emotive. These pent-up emotions are now piled on Jubilee, sparking a waves of discomfort.The Masai Mara Reserve churns out billions of shillings in revenue each year but a big chunk of it ends up in the bottomless pockets of Jubilee-friendly politicians, leaving the residents scrambling for the leftovers. This is an awkward situation to be in every other year. The best solution Narok has chosen is divorce. For the Kericho and Bomet residents, their heavy heart towards NASA is informed by the eviction of the Kipsigis who had settled in the Mau Forest, during the Grand Coalition government, of which NASA&rsquo;s major shareholder Raila Odinga was Prime Minister. These settlers came largely from Bomet county after disposing of their land. Unfortunately, President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s government set Raila on a collision course with the Kalenjin community by sending him to evict them. Raila has on many occasions explained his actions to the Kipsigis but his efforts have not borne fruit. This however, does not mean that it is the end of the road for the opposition chief. His actions can be worked out with a lot of wisdom, commitment and willingness of both sides to let bygones be bygones.The next step CCM will make will be informed by whether the preferred coalition&rsquo;s ideologies compare with its ideas. Rutto has put his political life on the line, pushing for counties to get more funding from the national government.This is CCM&rsquo;s clarion call. More funds or nothing. This is one of the many reasons Rutto formed CCM.When he bravely took on the powers that be, and formed his own political vehicle, he was sneered at, his party spat at and belittled as the Chama cha Mashimoni and Chama cha Mademoni by test tube politicians such as Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, whose reputation has been dented by his mention in the Sh1.8 billion NYS scandal. His boss, Deputy President William Ruto, led the anti-Rutto brigade. The DP has sworn more than four times that he will ensure the Bomet county chief will not be reelected on August 8.God willing, we will all be alive and well in August to witness the DP&rsquo;s political forecasts crumbling before our eyes.What is certain is that in Bomet, the political weather has moved from winter to summer. But not all will benefit from this friendly climate. The ground is teeming with voters ready to prove the naysayers wrong.Those who thought CCM would whither and eventually die have been proved wrong. A year after its formation, the party that was dragged through the garbage is basking in its glory while the party that was thought to be the phenomenon of the century in the Great Rift Valley, is suffering zombification. URP is lying six feet under in the sprawling graveyard of Kenyan political parties of yore. There is no miracle of resurrection. The tomb, after all, is a permanent resting place.CCM has exceeded its expectations. Jebet is a political commentator