President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, former President Mwai KIbaki and ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday mourned former Finance Minister David Mwiraria.Uhuru described Mwiraria, who died on Thursday after a battle with bone cancer, as &ldquo;a great man who devoted the prime years of his life to the service of the nation&rdquo;. Mwiraria died aged 79.The President said Mwiraria&rsquo;s unwavering loyalty and service was exemplary and self-evident. &ldquo;His outstanding service as a Cabinet minister and his sterling performance as an MP will remain a source of inspiration and motivation to many aspiring leaders,&rdquo; Uhuru said. He added, &ldquo;As we mourn and pay homage to this great man, let us also celebrate his life and achievements.&rdquo; Uhuru said Mwiraria was generous, cheerful and friendly. He said Mwiraria was a person of enormous influence, saying his wise counsel and guidance will be missed by many. Ruto said Mwiraria was a distinguished public servant and political leader who dedicated himself to the service of the nation.&ldquo;I had the opportunity to serve with the late Mwiraria in Parliament and admired his attention to detail and mastery of his subject. He will be greatly missed. May God comfort his family and friends during this difficult time. Rest in peace,&rdquo; he said in a statement.Kibaki said Mwiraria was a friend, confidant and co-worker.&ldquo;He was a trusted ally. His diligence, humility and forthrightness were rare, even epic. And so was his ability to rally people of diverse persuasions to a common cause. The late commanded respect across the board effortlessly,&rdquo; he said in a statement to the media.Kibaki said Mwiraria&rsquo;s leadership toolkit was greatly endowed as was his brilliance, and particularly so, his grasp of economics. &ldquo;Kenya has lost an illustrious public servant whose focus was on delivering the best for the good of all. May his soul rest in eternal peace,&rdquo; he said.Raila said Mwiraria was an honest and diligent public servant who had the interests of the nation at heart. He said Mwiraria will fondly be remembered for the role he played in reforming critical institutions like the KRA. &ldquo;I will remember fondly the work we did together of reforming critical institutions like the Kenya Revenue Authority, public procurement and infrastructure financing and delivery when the National Rainbow Coalition took power in 2002,&rdquo; Raila said. He added, &ldquo;It is Mwiraria&rsquo;s diligence and commitment that made all the difference with regard to delivering Narc&rsquo;s promises on key sectors of the economy.&rdquo;