A man who has been handling Jemimah Thiongo&rsquo;s business, Brian Mutenyo, told Word Is that gospel star Bahati is a hoax.Brian, Jemimah&rsquo;s operations manager, told Word Is: &ldquo;Anyone who has ever worked with Bahati can always agree with me ni mtu mbaya (he is a bad person).&rdquo;He added that Bahati is not a gospel minister as he claims but rather a &ldquo;pretender&rdquo; who puts out a different persona for the public.Brian is super-disappointed because he was instrumental in organising a collabo between Bahati and Jemimah. This was after the Barua star couldn&rsquo;t get a hold of Jemimah for two years.The reason Jemimah Thiong&rsquo;o was hesitant to do the collabo, according to Brian, was because she doubted Bahati&rsquo;s intentions.&ldquo;Jemimah is mature and very spiritual. She is cautious about who she is associated with when it comes to her ministry. Thus, doing a collabo with a new generation artiste meant he/she has to be morally upright and very spiritual,&rdquo; Brian said. He narrated how he pleaded with Jemimah to do the collabo with Bahati. The song, Kwa Moyo Wangu, was conceptualised by Bahati. When Jemimah finally agreed to do the collabo, she had conditions that included Bahati going back to singing the real gospel music &ldquo;na sio hizi za kurukaruka&rdquo;. This prompted Bahati to commit social media suicide and delete all his photos on Instagram, then days later, he released his single with Jemimah Thiongo.&ldquo;After the song release, we have never heard from Bahati again. He never calls, and Jemimah has never even received a coin &mdash; for royalties &mdash; from Bahati. If Bahati has ever paid Jemimah, let him come to the media and defend himself,&rdquo; Brian said.Called for comment, Bahati&rsquo;s manager Mutua said: &ldquo;There is nowhere we have signed any contract with regard to the song. As for the split sheet, we are still working on that.&rdquo; He refused to say for sure if Jemimah will get a cut from the royalties, if any.He denied the claims that Bahati has never spoken to Jemimah since the song was released.