One of the candidates seeking the Jubilee Party ticket in Nairobi has been blackmailing some State House officials. We are told that the man has some evidence of nocturnal activities they engaged in and has been threatening to unleash it if pushed. The threat has forced the officials to "tread carefully".*****Behind Opposition chief Raila Odinga's back, there has been a lot of infighting within his campaign team. Some officials, both at ODM and Capitol Hill, no longer talk to each other. Cartels have also taken advantage to extort unsuspecting aspirants. Our moles confirm the massive backbiting and infighting have been extended to NASA activities, where they have started to blame their counterparts in other parties almost as standard operating procedure.***** As things stand at this particular moment, it seems whichever team knows how to use fake news best (or worst) can easily win the next election. A good number of social media users are ready to pick up everything and run away with it. It worked well when some politicians were spun as leading before the bungled Jubilee Party primaries, and media picked up the same stories only to find our later it was false. Nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro's competitors also managed to spin that she has quit ODM. She had to quit a few days later - after everything turned against her in the party.*****A senior Jubilee operative was telling his colleagues in Parliament that Kanu has gone silent after accepting to support President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection bid. The Jubilee Party man said Kanu's strength would only be determined after the party went against the Jubilee tide in Rift Valley by supporting a Presidential candidate or joining NASA. He said unless the oldest party changes its ways it will never regain its towering status in the politics.*****Kiambu aspirant for the Senate George Nyanja is said to have turned down both Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu and Kiambu Governor William Kabogo's demand to take sides. Waititu wants to unseat Kabogo and the two have formed strong campaign camps. Whereas most politicians in the county opted to join either camp, a close source to Nyanja whispers to Corridors that the aspirant said if he took sides he is likely to lose votes. He failed to give reasons why he turned down the offer. He also bragged that he has enough money to form and run a new camp.