Nominated Senator Martha Wangari has urged Kenyans to nominate and elect more women in August. In a statement on Sunday, she said electing more women will help avert crisis in the next Parliament and meet the two-thirds gender threshold set by the Constitution. The rule seeks to ensure that individuals of the same gender do not occupy more than two-thirds of a particular category of public positions to ensure gender balance. Wangari, who is eyeing the Gilgil MP seat, said to avoid unnecessary court cases and the nomination of many women, Kenyans should elect more of them. &ldquo;The current National Assembly and Senate are clearly not properly constituted, as they are at the moment. It has, however, been allowed to operate by a Supreme Court advisory opinion, which I believe, will not apply after the August 8 elections," she said. "I urge Kenyans that as we carry out nominations, let&rsquo;s vote wisely because if we don&rsquo;t meet the two-thirds gender rule, the provisions of Article 261 are very clear that a Kenyan will move to court to have Parliament declared unconstitutional. The danger is there. We are likely to have a constitutional crisis," Wangari said. She praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for challenging Parliament last week to pass the gender Bill.More on this: Uhuru asks Duale to make two thirds gender rule top priority Wangari, however, urged women not to "wait for the positions at home", but to battle it out with men. "An opportunity is here for us as women to step out and seek these positions. If we wait for them sitting pretty at home, no one will give them to us," she said. Wangari said it is unfortunate that few women have shown interest to run for governor. She urged parties to rule that if a man wins the governor ticket, they nominate a woman running mate. "This is where political parties come in and ensure that women are being empowered and prepared for future elections. We want to see more women running for governor," Wangari said. She also urged police to provide sufficient security to all women aspirants, saying violence scares away women and the youth. The senator challenged the youth to reject politicians who incite them to cause chaos, saying peaceful nomination and election guarantees Kenya development.