HAS Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i (pictured) learnt some bad manners all of sudden and developed a foul mouth? The no-nonsense but always civil staunch SDA believer lauded for his radical policies that have excited the Education sector, launched a verbal missile at Kisii Governor James Ongwae last weekend and accused the county boss of stalking him even into church functions. They had coincidentally met in the same church for a pre-planned donation. While this habit is characteristic of the minister&rsquo;s superiors whom he serves with zeal, some Gusii leaders were heard saying Matiang&rsquo;i should be cautious when confronted with high-octane political challenges.***** A powerful and influential figure working in cahoots with a senior Nairobi county official is the chief beneficiary of several stalled road projects within the capital city. The man, who enjoys immense sway within Jubilee power circles, has been working closely with MCAs in a major racket that involves stealing public funds through fictitious road projects. To make matters worse, where the county manages to award contracts, the man has influenced senior officials at County Hall to make payments for work not done. Of interest is the cartel&rsquo;s scheme that saw City Hall pay millions of shillings for the tarmacking of Sunton Chieko Road. The contractor, who allegedly cooperated in the scheme, abandoned the site and took off without constructing the road, which has been in a sorry state.***** AS the hour of reckoning for political heavyweights facing the primaries draws nigh, a governor from Nyanza known for his violent conduct has reportedly recruited 50 youths as part of the county security reinforcement team with instructions to &ldquo;check on my opponents&rdquo;. While this may be considered arming a militia group for political protection, the local police and other security officers are clueless as the county stares possible bloodshed in the face during the ODM primaries. The flashy governor often travels with wads of notes which he dishes out to the desperate electorate on whose impoverishment he thrives. Just why can&rsquo;t the NIS bust the rogue tycoon county boss?***** THAT National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale is a man under scrutiny is becoming clearer by the day. His opponents claim he is influencing the hiring of IEBC election officials in his Garissa Township Constituency. Former Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim has already reported to the IEBC about the alleged plot to rig the elections. Farah argues that the powerful and influential area MP had a hand in the recruitment of constituency election officials to allegedly rig him to the 12th Parliament. Maalim said on his Twitter account, &ldquo;Duale gave a list of Returning Officers and Presiding Officers for Garissa Township to IEBC. Same officers who rigged him in in 2013.Not this time.&rdquo;