A diver who found the bodies of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani and two others in River Athi in Oldonyo Sabuk yesterday told of his two-day horrific experience.John Mwaniki said the bodies of Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri were tied at their waists, while their heads had been tied with plastic bags.The bodies had started decomposing and blood oozed from their mouths and noses.Mwaniki told Justice Jessie Lesiit he had gone for a bath in the river when he saw &ldquo;a strange thing&rdquo; floating. He decided to go closer to find out what it was.He saw legs protruding from a gunny bag. &ldquo;I swam out immediately to call my friend Patrick,&rdquo; Mwaniki said.The two friends agreed that Mwaniki would rush to call the police while Patrick would watch over the body. He reported, but police did not take action, he says.The following day, Mwaniki and his friend went back to the scene and were shocked to see a second sack floating a few metres away from where the first body still remained.&ldquo;It was easy to tell they were bodies because the sack had been tied up to their waist. The legs were out,&rdquo; he said.The witness said he went back to the police station to report the second body.It&rsquo;s at that point that police agreed to go with him, he said.&ldquo;The officers asked us to pull the body out. It was a difficult job because of the water. The first body was in the middle of the river. We used ropes to tie their legs to enable us to pull them,&rdquo; Mwaniki said.&ldquo;Each body had been tied with a plastic bag from Mulei Supermarket. The sacks were written Mariba Tea Factory. I saw blood oozing from their nose and mouth. Their skins were falling [off].&rdquo;The court heard that the two bodies had head injuries and were bleeding.Janet Kitusya, an officer who was at the scene and who transported the bodies to the City Mortuary, said she later got a phone call from her boss requesting them to search for another body.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s at that time I remembered reading from the media that three people had gone missing,&rdquo; she said.They were testifying in a case in which AP officers Stephen Chebulet, Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet and Silvia Wanjiku and informer Peter Ngugi were charged with the murder of the three.Kimani, Mwenda and Muiruri disappeared on June 23. It is suspected they were kidnapped on their way back from the Mavoko law courts, briefly held in a container before they were dragged to a killing field.Kimani&rsquo;s client, Mwenda, was pursuing an attempted murder case against Leliman and refused to withdraw it.On July 1, their bodies were found in gunny bags in the Oldonyo Sabuk River.The hearing continues today.Willie Kimani last tissue paper message takes centre stage in murder trialTears flow as family of slain lawyer Willie Kimani testifiesWitness in Willie Kimani murder case describes lawyer's struggle for help