President Uhuru Kenyatta has dismissed reports by some Kajiado politicians aimed at barring non-Maasais from elective positions.Uhur addressed 400 opinion leaders from Kajiado and Narok counties at State House, Nairobi, on Thursday night. In attendance were Kajiado North MCAs, led by county assembly chief whip Onesmas Ngogoyo.Uhuru, who was in the company of Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery, said Kajiado is a cosmopolitancounty that reflects the face of Kenya in terms of tribal representation.He said his resolve is to unite the country and ensure cohesion among all the tribes, wherever they are. Uhuru said all seats in Kajiado should be shared fairly among residents.He appeared to be answering some Maasais who three months ago in Isinya town said non-Maasais should not &ldquo;dream&rdquo; of running for any elective position.The meeting was later attended by Governor David Nkedianye. The Maasai community had warned of &ldquo;serious repercussions&rdquo; in the event non-Maasais attempt to run in the August election.Nkedianye, who was briefed of the declaration made earlier, did not comment on the matter in the national language. He went on to address the more than 100 elders and politicians present without any reference to the earlier remarks.During the State House meeting, which took place at 7pm, the President said he has not endorsed any candidate running for governor on the Jubilee Party ticket. He said all Jubilee hopefuls will battle it out with other contestants in the primaries. Uhuru said those claiming they have been endorsed by State House or the President are lying.&ldquo;I want to make it clear here tonight that those who have shown interest have the right to fight during the nominations on April 21,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I will support whoever wins. There are no sacred cows in this race and let the people of Kajiado pick their best for our party.&rdquo; Before Uhuru addressed the gathering, some opinion leaders had asked him if he had preferred candidates for governor. They also sought to know if he had endorsed any JP aspirant from Kajiado East.In the past one month, social media has been awash with rumours that former Interior CS Joseph Lenku and Kajiado woman representative Mary Seneta have been endorsed by Uhuru.