Two aspirants in the North Rift have ditched fancy fuel guzzlers in favour of modest bicycles and donkeys to endear themselves to voters ahead of the Jubilee Party primaries in two weeks.They are Kesses MP James Bett and Uasin Gishu governor aspirant Solomon Kiptarbei.Bett has been using a donkey to campaign in parts of the constituency where he faces a tough battle to defend his seat against wealthy new aspirants in the region.&ldquo;I may be slow like the donkey, but I am sure of a win,&rdquo; he said yesterday. Bett said just like the donkey, which is used to carrying heavy luggage, he too is ready to handle the &ldquo;huge responsibilities that come with being an MP like I have done in the last five years&rdquo;.Bett will battle it out against Mediheal Group of Hospitals CEO Dr Swarrup Mishra, lawyer Allan Kosgey and former MP David Koros for the Jubilee ticket. Most of the other aspirants are behind the wheels of SUVs and have long convoys to campaign.Last week, Mishra dismissed claims by his rivals he does not deserve to be elected because he is not a Kalenjin.He said he has lived in Uasin Gishu for 20 years and is &ldquo;more Kalenjin than some of my rivals&rdquo;.&ldquo;I have lived within this community and worked with them more than most of my rivals,&rdquo; he said. Voters have not been left out in devising tactics. They have come up with new tricks to reach evasive aspirants.On Sunday, after a Senate aspirant finished addressing a rally and headed to his vehicle, he found his tyres deflated, forcing him to spend more time with Cheplaskeiu residents.Kiptarbei has kicked off his campaigns using a bicycle. He rode around the streets of Eldoret to drum up support for his bid, saying he is the man to beat in the race for governor. Kiptarbei said he chose a bicycle because &ldquo;that is what I can afford.&rdquo; &ldquo;The bicycle campaign is affordable and it also enables me to mingle with many people unlike if I was using a car to drive around,&rdquo; he said.Kiptarbei exuded confidence he will win despite his rivals having much more financial muscle.rivals have financial muscle&ldquo;I believe I am the man to beat because I stand for the common man. I want everyone to conduct their campaigns freely as we head to the nominations,&rdquo; he said. Kiptarbei will battle it out against incumbent Jackson Mandago and millionaire businessman Bundotich Kiprop, popularly known as Buzeki.&ldquo;I want to tell my competitors to prepare for a tight contest because I will reach as many voters as possible using my bicycle,&rdquo; Kiptarbei said. Two MCA aspirants in Turbo constituency have used camels.