Kenya&rsquo;s top two clubs&mdash; Prisons and Pipeline&mdash; renew their rivalry this afternoon as they confront each other in the quarter-final of the Africa club Championships in Monastir, Tunisia.There will be no love lost between the two sides as they cross swords in one of the four quarter-final matches on card today. The long and short of the afternoon battle is that one of the two Kenyan clubs have to drop out of the race this afternoon.The two sides wrapped up their respective pool matches with wins on Tuesday evening. Kenya Pipeline had already qualified for the last eight prior to the Tuesday&rsquo;s match and a 3-0 (25-15,25-7,25-14) win against Bafia of Cameroon catapulted them to top of Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; with nine points unbeaten.Pipeline had won their opening pool matches with a similar 3-0 against Army Patriotic of Rwanda and Sonatrach of Algeria respectively. On flip side, their local nemesis and 5-time Africa champions, Kenya Prisons, served off their title campaign on the wrong footing, succumbing 3-1 to multi champions Al Ahly of Egypt before they made amends to win their subsequent matches against Bejaia of Algeria, hosts Marsa and University of Zimbabwe with a similar set margin of 3-0 The results saw them place second in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; with nine points behind champions Al Ahly of Egypt.Today&rsquo;s match promises thrills and fireworks if their past encounters are anything to go by. The two sides last met during 2016 Kenya Volleyball Federation national play-off league and Pipeline had the last laugh. However, Prisons have had a share of their glory on the continental stage having floored Pipeline in 2013 to progress to the semi-final . And although the memories are still fresh for Pipeline coach Japtheth Munala, he feels history will not count this time round.&ldquo;The players have performed well at the group stage and we want to carry the same form to the quarters. We know the stakes are high but I feel we have what it takes to qualify for semis. We will put our best foot forward and so let the will of God be done and fate decide,&rdquo; said Munala who has guided the national champions to win the KVF league title back-to-back since 2014. His opposite number, David Lung&rsquo;aho, lauded his players.&ldquo;It was a worthy fight and finally we finished runners up in our Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo;. We look forward to playing our arch rivals, Kenya Pipeline, as much as it is sad that one of us will fall by the wayside,&rdquo; said Lung&rsquo;aho, who doubles up as KVF technical director.He added: &ldquo;It is going to be a tough match and just like our opponents, we want to win the tie. We are also targeting the win and hopefully, go all the way and to clinch the title.&rdquo; Other quarter-finals will see Al Ahly battle GSP (Algeria), Carthage (Tunisia) take on their compatriots Sfaxien and Shams (Egypt) play Injis (Cameroon). The teams had a rest day yesterday ahead of today&rsquo;s quarters.