Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho can be defeated in his reelection bid because of his alleged mismanagement of the county, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said.He said Joho&rsquo;s stakes are only high because Jubilee has decided to make him a hero. &ldquo;I was telling Joho he really needs to get Jubilee to up his stakes,&rdquo; Kalonzo said on Wednesday on Citizen TV&rsquo;s JKL show.The Wiper leader said being made a hero and winning an election are two different things.Kalonzo said the rubber will meet the road when stocks will be taken on the mandate Joho was given.&ldquo;You see, it&rsquo;s one thing to be a superhero and quite another when it comes to your own constituency,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;In this, Mombasa county taking stock of what you have done with the mandate that was given to you, that is where the rubber meets the road my friend.&rdquo;Kalonzo is fronting Wiper secretary general and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar to run for the governor&rsquo;s seat.Omar has criticised Joho, saying he has mismanaged the county and does not deserve a second term.Another governor aspirant, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of VDP has echoed Omar&rsquo;s sentiments.But the county says it can account for spending to the last coin. It claims it has helped change lives through various investments and development, particularly on health.Kalonzo said it is a fallacy that Omar cannot beat Joho, saying he should be left to show his own strength.&ldquo;I have heard him [Omar] saying he [Joho] is beatable,&rdquo; he said.Kalonzo said he will jet to Mombasa and campaign for Omar. He said Omar will probably be given a direct ticket. Kalonzo said ODM will give Joho a direct nomination, and that he expects Orange party leader Raila Odinga to campaign for Joho. &ldquo;Raila and I will go there to support our candidates. Let&rsquo;s see what will happen. That is democracy,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.Opinion polls by Infotrak and the Trends and Insights for Africa have placed Joho far ahead of any other governor hopeful in Mombasa.Kalonzo&rsquo;s remarks came a day after MP Awiti blamed him for his departure from Wiper to VDP.He said Kalonzo frustrated his cause by delaying to organise nominations. Awiti said Wiper is not keen to win the Mombasa seat. Pundits say Wiper suffered a major blow when its former national treasurer left.