Kenya return to the scene of their biggest triumph today at the Singapore Sevens.A year ago, Kenya became the toast of the rugby world after shocking powerhouse Fiji 30-7 to claim their maiden cup victory after 114 tournaments.Fast forward to a year later, and Innocent Simiyu&rsquo;s charges have regressed by only making it to the main cup quarterfinals once in six attempts in Cape Town last December.Matters have not been helped by undercurrents plaguing the team with players going on strike over unpaid bonuses; strength and conditioning coach Ian Gibbons resigning halfway through the season and key players Willy Ambaka and Dan Sikuta pulling out of the team just hours before departure last weekend.It&rsquo;s been an underwhelming season and Shujaa will be seeking to put their act together in the city state after collecting seven points from Hong Kong last weekend. For the sixth time out of seven attempts, Shujaa were relegated to the Challenge trophy category, where they lost to Scotland 21-19 in the final.In the pool matches, Kenya lost 17-14 to Canada and 35-10 to South Africa before recovering to beat France 29-12, Japan 24-17 and Russia 24-5.Kenya are in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; and face Argentina at 6am followed by a tricky tie against Australia at 9:22am. They wind up their preliminary assignment against Samoa at 12:56pm.Kenya and Argentina have met twice this season with Argentina winning 17-12 in Wellington and the two sides drawing 14-14 in Las Vegas. Australia edged Kenya 12-10 in Dubai but Shujaa earned revenge with a 19-17 win in Wellington. Kenya beat Samoa 21-14 in Las Vegas with Samoa winning 26-7 in Vancouver.Skipper Andrew Amonde said the boys are energised as they return to Singapore and expects the side to give it their best effort.&ldquo;We will have a great tournament in Singapore. We have picked up very well and we just need to be smart on how we are going to focus on the teams in our pool,&rdquo; he addedAmonde added: &ldquo;It is a pool we can go through if we work very smart. We must win against Argentina, Samoa and Australia despite poor results against them in previous rounds,&rdquo; noted Amonde.Looking back at Hong Kong, Amonde observed: &ldquo;It was a tough weekend in Hong Kong. A three-day tournament drains everything out of the players. We don&rsquo;t enjoy playing under this system but the players stood up and played very well despite the hard times.&rdquo;The narrow losses in Hong Kong gave Amonde the right vibe ahead of Singapore Sevens. &ldquo;When the boys were left to express themselves, they did it fully. The nice thing that happened in Hong Kong was a self-drive decision that the players came up with.&rdquo;