A man in Thika town has gone into hiding after he was found with a fake voters&rsquo; register.The man, who is yet to be identified, is said to have been planning to sneak the register into one of the polling stations.Aspirants vying for the Thika Town seat raised concern and called the police to act swiftly and apprehend the man.Eng Patrick Wainaina (pictured), commonly known as Wa Jungle, said it was a ploy by an aspirant to use the fake register to lock out supporters of other aspirants. &ldquo;The list had been doctored to favour one of the aspirants. This is an election malpractice that should not go unpunished. The police must look for this man and arrest him,&rdquo; Wainaina said. Wainaina said police officers are biased in the exercise. He added that one of his observers was arrested at the St Patrick&rsquo;s Primary polling station with a seal meant to mark the ballot boxes. &ldquo;The police cannot explain why they arrested him, despite the fact that having the seal is not an illegality or an election offence,&rdquo; Wainaina said.He wanted to mark the boxes so that they can be easily identified at the tallying centre, he said.&ldquo;Again he had a badge from the Jubilee Party,&rdquo; Wainaina said. &ldquo;The police cannot explain why they arrested him, despite the fact that having the seal is not an illegality or an election offence,&rdquo; Wainaina said.However, the incumbent Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a said the party did not send observers to the polling stations. She said her rivals are using their agents as observers. &ldquo;We will be on the lookout, and we will move to every polling station to ensure there won&rsquo;t be any loophole to rig the primaries,&rdquo; she said. Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a cast her vote at Kimuchu polling station and commended voters for maintaining tranquillity. She said the same should be carried over to the August polls. Police boss Julius Kyumbule said the police are working round the clock to ensure there won&rsquo;t be any malpractice.