Champions Telkom Orange thrashed Vikings 5-0 to extend their league lead to 15 points in the ongoing Kenya Hockey Union women&rsquo;s Premier League at the City Park Stadium yesterday.Telkom, who are yet to concede a goal this season, opened the scoring chart in through Audrey Omaido barely four minutes into the match from a close range. Maureen Okumu doubled Telkom&rsquo;s lead in the 15th minute after nice exchanges with Lucy Wangeci. Jane Ofula&rsquo;s sole effort was rewarded in the 27 minute after dribbling past Vikings defence to score the third goal before experienced Jackline Mwangi added the fourth goal towards the end of the first half for a 4-0 lead.On resumption, effort by Vikings to reduce arrears bore no fruit as Rachael Ousa netted Telkom&rsquo;s fifth goal in the 57th minute to seal the match. Speaking after the game, Vikings&rsquo; coach Clyde Mmbaha said: &ldquo;We played a stronger opponent who are the defending champions. They were stronger than us in all areas because we were without Carol Okoth and Bancy Wawira, who picked injuries in our previous game.&rdquo; He said the absence of the two proved costly since they are dependable players in the team. Vikings captain Susan Muchai, who netted a brace against Sliders on Monday said: &ldquo;We were no match for Telkom. They have a good defence and striking force and at one point I was even forced to drop back and assist in the defence.&rdquo;Telkom&rsquo;s coach Josephine Ataro said: &ldquo;Discipline in all areas, especially in the defence has enabled us to keep clean sheet in all games. We came for three points and I thank my girls for delivering.&rdquo;Earlier on, Gorrilla collected all three points and a two-goal win after Mombasa Sports Club failed to show up for the match. Gorrilla&rsquo;s manager David Onaka said: &ldquo;I am pleased with the three points and two goals though we wanted to earn them on the pitch. We were prepared but our opponents didn&rsquo;t turn up.&rdquo;The points saw Gorrila increase their points tally to 5 points after drawing with Impala and Daystar University in their earlier matches. A walk over was also awarded to JKUAT Ladies after Mombasa Sports Club failed to show up for the game.