This is a humble prayer to NASA&rsquo;s National Coordination Committee, the which entrusted with ensuring the alliance stays together under a collective leadership.First, the flagbearer issue should not be blown out of proportion. The fact is that we need a candidate who is, among other things, a vote catcher, period. There are no two ways about that. Elections are about votes. And people will vote when they are attracted to a promise, a leader/party and a policy regarding their future.All the Cord principals are seasoned politicians. They have been around long enough to honestly evaluate each other&rsquo;s strengths and weaknesses, and their strength and weakness combined as a team. All this must be done in camera, not in the full glare of an anxious public. Putting the matter in the public domain is simply bad politics at best, and kindergarten behaviour at worst. So, Francis Nyenze, spare us the embarrassment. All of us have our passionate feelings about our leaders. But this is not the time to use those passions for the politics of brinkmanship that seeks to instil fear into the negotiators. &ldquo;Either you do this or we quit&rdquo; provides no solution to the collective whole: It simply creates rifts, which will defeat the realisation of the collective&rsquo;s policy of removing the Jubilee regime from power. Then what will we have achieved for Kenyans, who are yearning for this change?Second, in the art of negotiation, never fear to negotiate nor negotiate in fear. Dear Hon Nyenze, you are beginning to fear to negotiate and to push your colleagues to negotiate in fear. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in the name of Allah, the most merciful, I beseech you not to do this. It is no good for the negotiation process. It is no good for NASA. It is no good for the people of Kenya. When you feel you are not getting your way in the boardroom, don&rsquo;t outsource your frustration to the people of Ukambani, or the whole of Kenyans for that matter. There are certain decisions that leaders need to take collectively in the interest of the people under an atmosphere of freedom, honesty and trust and not under undue pressure, blackmail and ultimata.In 2005, Madam Gra&ccedil;a Machel was in Kenya as the lead person in Nepad&rsquo;s Kenya Africa Peer Review Mechanism process. I had the pleasure and a rare opportunity to host her on behalf of the Kenyan government. The Ministry of Planning and National Development, which I headed then, was in charge of Nepad, hence my hosting of Madam Machel. She told me that her husband, President Nelson Mandela, would follow her after a week so that they could spend three weeks together here in Kenya. Mandela did come, and, again, I had the rare opportunity to meet him at the airport and accompany him in my official car to the Safari Park Hotel, where he stayed before he moved a few days later to the Windsor Golf Hotel.On our way from the airport we had a lively discussion, ranging from the wildlife of South Africa to the outstanding work Kenya was doing in preserving elephants. I then pushed Madiba to discuss politics. During the course of the equally lively discussion, I asked him about the problem of dealing with the choice of leadership in the ANC. I was impressed &mdash; I told him &mdash; by the almost flawless way in which the ANC chose their leaders. This is what Madiba told me, and I quote him verbatim: &ldquo;When we in the ANC are faced with the issue of how to deal with apportioning responsibility among fellow comrades, we discuss, look around, and when we have agreed who takes responsibility, including that of being President, we do it collectively and give that responsibility to the most capable and suitable person among us. It is not for the individual to blow his own trumpet.&rdquo;Mandela said this without looking at me. He was actually peeping through the window into the game park as we drove past City Cabana towards the city centre. Now back to the NASA negotiators for the NASA leadership.Third, to those negotiating on our behalf, please note that many of us empathise with you. Your task is not that easy. It is always easier for spectators to play football much better than players in the field. The problem with spectators is that they have neither the right nor the opportunity to score: they have to accept that they have entrusted their players with both the right and the opportunity to score. So while the 90 minutes last they will have to endure with the skill or lack of it in their players. I believe we in NASA are in the same position. A player who comes out of the field while the game is going on and tells his fellow players that they can only score if he is made Number 9 will not be received very well by the spectators, however right he may be! He can blow his own trumpet, but very few Kenyan patriots will be amused.Fourth, anxious as we may be, I don&rsquo;t think the 90 minutes are over yet. I do, however, want to see the signs of scoring. What Nyenze has done, however, makes me feel that we may go to extra time to score the needed goal. That may be a gamble we should not take. I am sorry about this my brother Nyenze but that is the feeling of many of our supporters who have feverishly called me pleading with me to intervene. Since you expressed your sentiments in the public domain, I thought it best to intervene in this domain as well. I hope you will take this as fair play. In the end what we need is unity of organisation in order to achieve unity of purpose. If you share this philosophy, which brought us together in Narc in 2002, in ODM in 2007 and in Cord in 2012, then you should tone down the belligerence and go back to the negotiating table.Sooner rather than later, some light will shine at the end of the tunnel if all of you negotiators are patient enough. But please don&rsquo;t listen to your own voices, or the voices you choose to hear from in the public domain. Try and get views from a wide cross-section of Kenyans: From Vanga to Moyale and from Kararapon to Othoch Rakuom. Kenyans who live in such places rarely get to be sampled in the opinion polls that frequently litter our newspapers. I am not genetically lethargic towards opinion polls. Definitely not. I started appreciating their significance in the 1970s when I studied survey research at the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago under some of the then very well known gurus in this trade. But one thing they taught me which I still remember today is that man can always misuse God&rsquo;s most perfect creation and put it to bad use. This is equally true of the science of opinion polling, when it falls into the hands of academic merchants. I am afraid we have enough of that species within the industry that run opinion surveys in this country. They spoil that trade for the good and honest survey research ladies and gentlemen. The moral of this story is this: Don&rsquo;t rely too much on opinion surveys unless you have full confidence in those who do them. Some of them may very easily set you up to be chewed along the process of negotiating.Finally, it is always good to build scenarios and try and think seriously about the scenario that will make you cross the bridge to the other side. There is no need picking up a scenario which either makes you stand still or drives you backwards. My own sincere opinion is that beginning by saying this or that community must be given this or that position that is available is a standstill scenario.Few people, and perhaps none at all, will have the rare opportunity to change their ethnic identity to buy your scenario. So it attracts nobody but yourselves, it leaves everybody else back on the drawing board looking for a scenario where everybody can begin looking for a possible working scenario, not yours. So how are you helping the negotiating process? Honestly how? May the almighty God/Allah be with you and help you all to help us save Kenya.This is a humble prayer to NASA&rsquo;s National Coordination Committee, the which entrusted with ensuring the alliance stays together under a collective leadership.First, the flagbearer issue should not be blown out of proportion. The fact is that we need a candidate who is, among other things, a vote catcher, period. There are no two ways about that. Elections are about votes. And people will vote when they are attracted to a promise, a leader/party and a policy regarding their future.All the Cord principals are seasoned politicians. They have been around long enough to honestly evaluate each other&rsquo;s strengths and weaknesses, and their strength and weakness combined as a team. All this must be done in camera, not in the full glare of an anxious public. Putting the matter in the public domain is simply bad politics at best, and kindergarten behaviour at worst.So, Francis Nyenze, spare us the embarrassment. All of us have our passionate feelings about our leaders. But this is not the time to use those passions for the politics of brinkmanship that seeks to instil fear into the negotiators. &ldquo;Either you do this or we quit&rdquo; provides no solution to the collective whole: It simply creates rifts, which will defeat the realisation of the collective&rsquo;s policy of removing the Jubilee regime from power. Then what will we have achieved for Kenyans, who are yearning for this change?Second, in the art of negotiation, never fear to negotiate nor negotiate in fear. Dear Hon Nyenze, you are beginning to fear to negotiate and to push your colleagues to negotiate in fear. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in the name of Allah, the most merciful, I beseech you not to do this. It is no good for the negotiation process. It is no good for NASA. It is no good for the people of Kenya. When you feel you are not getting your way in the boardroom, don&rsquo;t outsource your frustration to the people of Ukambani, or the whole of Kenyans for that matter. There are certain decisions that leaders need to take collectively in the interest of the people under an atmosphere of freedom, honesty and trust and not under undue pressure, blackmail and ultimata.In 2005, Madam Gra&ccedil;a Machel was in Kenya as the lead person in Nepad&rsquo;s Kenya Africa Peer Review Mechanism process. I had the pleasure and a rare opportunity to host her on behalf of the Kenyan government. The Ministry of Planning and National Development, which I headed then, was in charge of Nepad, hence my hosting of Madam Machel. She told me that her husband, President Nelson Mandela, would follow her after a week so that they could spend three weeks together here in Kenya.Mandela did come, and, again, I had the rare opportunity to meet him at the airport and accompany him in my official car to the Safari Park Hotel, where he stayed before he moved a few days later to the Windsor Golf Hotel.On our way from the airport we had a lively discussion, ranging from the wildlife of South Africa to the outstanding work Kenya was doing in preserving elephants.I then pushed Madiba to discuss politics. During the course of the equally lively discussion, I asked him about the problem of dealing with the choice of leadership in the ANC. I was impressed &mdash; I told him &mdash; by the almost flawless way in which the ANC chose their leaders.This is what Madiba told me, and I quote him verbatim: &ldquo;When we in the ANC are faced with the issue of how to deal with apportioning responsibility among fellow comrades, we discuss, look around, and when we have agreed who takes responsibility, including that of being President, we do it collectively and give that responsibility to the most capable and suitable person among us. It is not for the individual to blow his own trumpet.&rdquo;Mandela said this without looking at me. He was actually peeping through the window into the game park as we drove past City Cabana towards the city centre. Now back to the NASA negotiators for the NASA leadership.Third, to those negotiating on our behalf, please note that many of us empathise with you. Your task is not that easy. It is always easier for spectators to play football much better than players in the field. The problem with spectators is that they have neither the right nor the opportunity to score: they have to accept that they have entrusted their players with both the right and the opportunity to score. So while the 90 minutes last they will have to endure with the skill or lack of it in their players. I believe we in NASA are in the same position. A player who comes out of the field while the game is going on and tells his fellow players that they can only score if he is made Number 9 will not be received very well by the spectators, however right he may be! He can blow his own trumpet, but very few Kenyan patriots will be amused.Fourth, anxious as we may be, I don&rsquo;t think the 90 minutes are over yet. I do, however, want to see the signs of scoring. What Nyenze has done, however, makes me feel that we may go to extra time to score the needed goal. That may be a gamble we should not take. I am sorry about this my brother Nyenze but that is the feeling of many of our supporters who have feverishly called me pleading with me to intervene. Since you expressed your sentiments in the public domain, I thought it best to intervene in this domain as well. I hope you will take this as fair play. In the end what we need is unity of organisation in order to achieve unity of purpose. If you share this philosophy, which brought us together in Narc in 2002, in ODM in 2007 and in Cord in 2012, then you should tone down the belligerence and go back to the negotiating table.Sooner rather than later, some light will shine at the end of the tunnel if all of you negotiators are patient enough. But please don&rsquo;t listen to your own voices, or the voices you choose to hear from in the public domain. Try and get views from a wide cross-section of Kenyans: From Vanga to Moyale and from Kararapon to Othoch Rakuom. Kenyans who live in such places rarely get to be sampled in the opinion polls that frequently litter our newspapers. I am not genetically lethargic towards opinion polls. Definitely not. I started appreciating their significance in the 1970s when I studied survey research at the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago under some of the then very well known gurus in this trade. But one thing they taught me which I still remember today is that man can always misuse God&rsquo;s most perfect creation and put it to bad use. This is equally true of the science of opinion polling, when it falls into the hands of academic merchants. I am afraid we have enough of that species within the industry that run opinion surveys in this country. They spoil that trade for the good and honest survey research ladies and gentlemen. The moral of this story is this: Don&rsquo;t rely too much on opinion surveys unless you have full confidence in those who do them. Some of them may very easily set you up to be chewed along the process of negotiating.Finally, it is always good to build scenarios and try and think seriously about the scenario that will make you cross the bridge to the other side. There is no need picking up a scenario which either makes you stand still or drives you backwards. My own sincere opinion is that beginning by saying this or that community must be given this or that position that is available is a standstill scenario.Few people, and perhaps none at all, will have the rare opportunity to change their ethnic identity to buy your scenario. So it attracts nobody but yourselves, it leaves everybody else back on the drawing board looking for a scenario where everybody can begin looking for a possible working scenario, not yours. So how are you helping the negotiating process? Honestly how? May the almighty God/Allah be with you and help you all to help us save Kenya.