JUST why is Siaya Senator James Orengo (pictured) not running for any political seat at the August 8 poll? The multiparty democracy crusader and close lieutenant of NASA co-principal Raila Odinga&rsquo;s name was not in the list of ODM aspirants published on Wednesday, stirring concerns why the vocal senator just decided not to run. Did he foresee an impending embarrassing defeat at the primaries by his worthy opponents or he is targetting a ministerial appointment should NASA form government? Some of his allies were overhead saying the astute lawyer accepted Raila&rsquo;s request not to contest so that he can buttress the Presidential campaign.A Jubilee election official in Nairobi is a man under siege. Despite the party electoral code of conduct barring him from meeting aspirants without following party structures, the official doesn&rsquo;t want to adhere to the rules. He was spotted at Hotel Boulevard on Wednesday night in the company of some of the wealthy city Jubilee aspirants, fuelling anxiety among supporters that the April 21 primaries might be compromised. Are President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s party officials scheming to bungle the nominations? This is a question supporters are posing as the clock ticks towards the polls.A vocal MP from the Rift Valley is a worried man. This after his wife took off last week, following protracted marital problems that saw her twice get hospitalised for chronic depression. The woman is said to have contracted the services of a psychologist who has been taking her through tedious sessions for the last six months, before she finally decided to walk out of their marriage. The lawmaker, a father of two, is now faced with an uphill task to stabilise his marital life ahead of the election after elders told him he must either marry or &ldquo;return the wife&rdquo; if he expects their support.POLITICIANS will never cease to amaze. Are two parliamentary aspirants from South Mugirango constituency battling for a debut in Parliament taking voters for a ride? Well, following the publication of the ODM parliamentary aspirants list, it emerged that opponents Rashid Minyong&rsquo;a and Silyvenas Osoro paid up nominations fees to participate in the party primaries, despite the fact that they have been associating with other parties. The youthful Osoro, who was tipped to get the ODM ticket, fled to the KNC, headed by Manson Nyamweya, while Minyong&rsquo;a has been flip-flopping between Jubilee and Kanu. This is a pointer that several politicians could have made multiple nomination applications for tickets ahead of the polls.