Every time the Health ministry weighs in on the debate on genetically modified organisms, it is almost always to effect a ban. From the recent move to stop field trials, to maintaining the earlier ban that was informed by a now discredited French study, the ministry is overly sensitive to all matters GMOs.Whereas there is need to regulate biotechnology-driven solutions, this must not hinder research. Scientific trials, for instance, are conducted within very controlled parameters; and our local scientists can be trusted to stick to scientific rigour in conducting trials. A country in the middle of a severe drought should fast-track research in GMOs not stifle it.Perhaps it is time to give GMOs a break since we do not have any scientific evidence that they are responsible for the numerous health problems the country faces. All energies should be directed towards confronting specific socially accepted and perfectly legal products such as alcohol, which are known drivers of chronic ill health and premature deaths.As a country, we have made a big mistake of looking at alcohol only as a social problem. Consequently, we have done very little to address alcohol as a leading cause of cancer. Ethanol, the only form of alcohol fit for human consumption, is classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, an arm of WHO, as a group 1 carcinogen. This category is used when there is sufficient evidence that a product or agent causes cancer in human beings. Alcohol shares the high table of cancer causation with some pretty hazardous products &ndash; tobacco and radioactive agents as well as viruses such as HPV, which causes cervical cancer.The fact that alcoholic beverages cause cancer is supported unequivocally by sound science. But when it comes to calling alcohol a carcinogen in social discourse, even healthcare professionals tend to beat about the bush, possibly fearing industry backlash. The risk of developing cancer from consumption of alcoholic beverages is the same regardless of the brand, type, method of preparation or manufacturer. Those who drink expensive spirits, wines or beers have the same risk with consumers of illicit brews like chang&rsquo;aa.Alcohol causes cancers of the liver, mouth, tongue, gums, throat, oesophagus and colon. Women who drink have a much higher risk of developing breast cancer. Alcohol is responsible for six per cent of cancer deaths globally &mdash; rates could be higher in our country, given the growing number of consumers. Naturally, the industry would want to do everything possible to cast doubts on the association between alcohol and cancer.There is no safe quantity of alcohol when it comes to cancer causation. Just as it is with alcoholics who start with small harmless quantities; steady exposure to even small amounts of alcohol over time predisposes one to cancer. The public health warnings on alcohol bottles read &lsquo;Excessive consumption of alcohol is harmful to your health, drink responsibly&rsquo;.However &lsquo;excessive&rsquo; and &lsquo;responsible&rsquo; are not defined. Instead, the industry aggressively promotes a narrative that drinking alcohol is associated with vitality, hard work, relaxation and patriotism, while conveniently remaining silent about the strong link between alcohol and cancer.The alcoholic beverages industry has done well with the road safety campaign encouraging drivers not to drink and drive. Now this should be taken further to include cancer risks associated with alcohol consumption.The Health ministry must not mince words in crafting official public health statements on the causal association between alcohol and cancer. Nacada, the Consumer Federation of Kenya, and cancer civil society groups should pick this up and push for unambiguous messaging on advertisements and bottles of alcoholic drinks. Alcohol causes cancer. Period.David Makumi is chairman, Kenya Network of Cancer Organisations, and patron of the Oncology Nurses Chapter. dkmakumi@gmail.com