A woman, her husband and his brother from Kabukara village in Sirisia constituency, Bungoma county, died violently after a quarrel over Sh150.The man wanted the money to buy cheap liquor, his wife said it was to buy medicine for her grandmother. Illegal liquor is wreaking havoc again, after President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s crackdown ordered in Juy 2015.Neighbours say Allan Osiome, 34, started the fight after his wife, Feophe Ekas, 28, refused to hand him the Sh150 given by her women group during a merry-go-round.Rose Simiyu, a neighbour, said Osiome demanded the cash but Ekas insisted the money was to buy medicine for her grandmother.&ldquo;The wife completely refused to give him the money, saying he would spend it on alcohol,&rsquo;&rsquo; Simiyu said.A fight ensued. An infuriated Osiome, said by neighbours to have been drunk, snatched the Sh150 and started beating his wife.He grabbed a knife and stabbed her in the chest and stomach several times, killing her instantly. After learning of the murder, neighbours stormed Osiome&rsquo;s homestead and stoned him to death.Osiome&rsquo;s older brother Ekileng Mamai overheard the commotion, grabbed a panga and rushed to rescue Osiome from the mob. But the residents turned on Mamai and beat him to death. By the time police arrived, the three were dead. The bodies were taken to Bungoma Referral Hospital mortuary.Sirisia acting police boss Jackson Tunoi confirmed the death of the three.Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson in Sirisia subcounty, Bilha Nakhungu, condemned the incident and urged men to respect their wives.&ldquo;We want our men to stop incidents like this and settle disputes in an amicable way,&rsquo;&rsquo; Nakhungu said.Sirisia MP John Waluke, who visited the home of the deceased also condemned the killings.He blamed the needless deaths on irresponsible alcohol consumprion among youths.Waluke said a number of youths and married men are drinking second-generation alcohol. He said excessive consumption has broken up marriages, led to many murders and caused family disintegration. &ldquo;It is a very sad incident since many in my electorate, whom I expected to vote for me, have died because of this cheap sachet liquor from a neighbouring town in Uganda,&rdquo; Waluke said.He asked Bungoma county commissioner Joshua Chepchieng to launch another crackdown on alcohol dens selling illicit liquor, and arrest traders involved in the illegal business.The lawmaker, who has already launched his reelection bid, said the cheap alcohol from Uganda is being sold in the area. He said some politicians are taking advantage of the situation, and are luring desperate youths with money to buy low-priced liquor.Then they use them to cause havoc in rallies and funerals.Waluke said it is regrettable the family lost three members over a small family squabble that could have been resolved peacefully.In June last year, a quarrel turned tragic in Thika after a man murdered his wife by stabbing her 18 times .It was not the first attempt for George Njenga, 35, to kill his wife Joyce Wangari, 32. Efforts by neighbours to save the woman were futile.