First AKA then Diplo, and now Vincentian soca artist Kelvin Lyttle was in the country to perform in one of the high-ended Billionaires&rsquo; Club (B-Club), and he had nothing but praises for Kenyan artistes and music in general.It was his first time to perform in Kenya, but he has previously performed in Algeria, Ghana, Nigeria and many other places, and he terms his experience as exciting.&ldquo;It was crazy, man. I never knew how much similarity there is here to the Caribbean until I got here. It is so much like home. You know, it&rsquo;s good vibes. I feel like I&rsquo;m home anytime here in Africa, but it&rsquo;s bigger.&rdquo;The Turn me on hitmaker, who was more popular in 2004-06, is back and bigger, having recently been signed to Sony records. Kelvin, who is mainly known to infuse dancehall and RnB into his songs, has now ventured into Afro beats and has a new project coming up.&ldquo;I have been doing a few things with the Afro beats and I have a song with King James from Rwanda. So there&rsquo;s a lot happening,&rdquo; he said.Kelvin said that growing up, he looked up to people like Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson, Sparrow, Bob Marley and Wayne Wonder, and each influenced his music. However, his greatest influence comes from the Caribbean, which he terms as one of the most liberal genres and free from any biases.&ldquo;Caribbean music is the most played music in the world, people love that music. It is the music that is not tinted. It is constantly what it is what it is, not being influenced by outside persons and being used for political reasons.&rdquo;Unlike what many may think about rising to fame in the Caribbean, Kelvin says it is not that easy.&ldquo;It is very hard to become successful in the Caribbean. We are very picky, but when you do, the world will love you. There is always competition, it is just how you far take it.&rdquo;So how does his wife, who also happens to be his manager, put up with all the fame and girls being around him?&ldquo;It&rsquo;s business, you know what I&rsquo;m saying. Make sure that once we get paid, it&rsquo;s all good, you know. I&rsquo;m not going home with none of them,&rdquo; he chuckles.He advises people who are passionate about music to keep going and never give up until they have reached their goals.&ldquo;Keep working, you never know when that break will come. You&rsquo;ve got to believe in yourself before anyone believes in you.&rdquo;