Tom Mboya Primary School has confirmed that Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was their pupil from 1980 to 1988.This was on Wednesday after the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission demanded details about the Coast kingpin&rsquo;s primary schooling.On Wednesday, meanwhile, Joho said the state is continuing its persecution of him by planning to go after his birth certificate, claiming he was not born in Kenya.It is part of the state&rsquo;s apparent multi-pronged onslaught against its outspoken adversary and Coast kingpin. The Jubilee administration says it&rsquo;s just doing its job.School head Babu Suleiman said Joho was their student from 1980 to 1988, when he sat the KCPE exam. He scored 286 marks. On Wednesday, EACC sleuths arrived at 9am, demanding Joho&rsquo;s academic details.In a March 28 letter, EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea asked the head teacher to furnish all Joho&rsquo;s information.In response, Suleiman said, based on the admission register, Joho joined on January 7, 1980, under guardianship of his father Ali Hassan of P O Box 83674, Mombasa. The Star has seen the letter. &ldquo;His admission was TOM 2722/80. Hassan Ali Index was 16010/019 sat KCPE in 1988,&rdquo; reads the letter. Deputy President William Ruto last year called Joho an &ldquo;academic dwarf with a questionable degree&rdquo;, referring to his higher education.At Tom Mboya Primary School, Joho scored 286 marks.In English language he scored 55 (C+), Kiswahili 60 (B-), Mathematics 61 (B-), Science and Agriculture 36 (D+), Geography, History, Civic and Religious Education 36 (D+) and in Arts and Crafts, Home science and Music he scored 38 (D+). &ldquo;Apart from being active in football, Joho was the school timekeeper (bell ringer),&rdquo; Suleiman said.The EACC probe came a week after Joho was ordered to record a CID statement about allegations he forged his KCSE exam certificate to enrol in the University of Nairobi.The governor&rsquo;s academic qualifications have been a bone of contention since 2013.He is said to have presented a forged 1992 KCSE exam certificate, showing he scored a mean grade of C+, the minimum grade for admission to university for a degree.Joho has denied forgery allegations and publicly said he scored a D- in the KCSE exams he sat in 1993, not in 1992, according to the supposedlyforged certificate.Serani Secondary School, where Joho sat his KCSE exam, said the governor sat his exam in 1993 after enrolling in February 1990.The Tom Mboya Primary School letter says Joho cleared standard eight in 1988. However, he could have stayed out of school for a year before joining secondary school in 1990. Joho frequently says he struggled in school because of his humble background.On Wednesday, during the launch of the Mombasa ODM League of People Living with Disabilities, Joho said he is proud of his achievements, despite poor academics.He accused the Jubilee administration of trying to &ldquo;finish me politically&rdquo;. He expressed surprise the EACC is now investigating his primary school just a week after probing his high school academics. &ldquo;They wanted me to provide the P O Box number used during my admission in standard one. This is not realistic, because I was six or seven then. How do they expect me to even know that?&rdquo; the governor asked.Joho said the Jubilee administration plans to go for his birth certificate over claims he was not born in Kenya.&rdquo;I&rsquo;m prepared. They can even go to my nursery school and ask about my details. On my birth certificate, I&rsquo;m a Kenyan like President Uhuru Kenyatta,&rdquo; he said.