The Lapsset Corridor Development Authority is developing a 20-year master plan to incorporate industries, a resort city and logistical services at the proposed Lamu City. This is part of the Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port Southern Sudan- Ethiopia Transport Corridor project.The development comes as the first three berths at the proposed 32-berth Lamu port takes shape, with the first berth expected to be complete by mid- 2018. The government, through the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority, has sought support from the British government to develop the master plan. The British government recruited design, engineering and project management consultancy firm Atkinsin September 2016to develop the plan. The London-headquartered company has completed a six-month study, and has come up with a planning and investment framework dubbed &ldquo;Lamu Port City Investment Framework&rdquo; as part of the master plan. It covers 9,500 hectares (23,475 acres) of industrial land, Atkins Associate director Richard Ainsley said yesterday during a briefing in Nairobi. Transport CS James Macharia is expected to officially unveil the framework in Nairobi today.Speaking during a round-table meeting with the Atkins officials and journalists, Lapsset CEO Silvester Kasuku said the master plan will guide development in the area, including the setting up of Special Economic Zones, as the mega project takes shape.The SEZs will be used as manufacturing site and a hub for exporting and importing goods.&ldquo;This plan will take care of the industries that are going to take advantage of the Lamu port, the logistic companies, the services and developments that will follow. From real estate to other related activities. This will help us give a clear direction to the private sector on where to set their businesses,&rdquo; Kasuku said. The master plan has been divided into three phases. Phase one will take between five and 10 years to implement, with a planned population of 57,000 people and the ability to create 22,000 jobs. Phase two is expected to have a population of 476,000, creating 117,200 jobs while the long term plan is to have 1.1 million people living in the &ldquo;Lamu city&rdquo; area which will have created 425,000 jobs. Anchored on the Lamu port, the Lamu city is expected to host residential areas. Industries targeted include petrochemical, metal processing, apparel and clothing, food and beverages, fishing, service industry such banks,security,hotels among others.&ldquo;Our plan is really to have a world class special economic zone that will benefit the whole of Kenya and beyond the East Africa region. We are trying to put together all the economic activities in a harmonised structure&rdquo; Atkins cities and urban infrastructure director Roger Savage said.