Ministry of Energy and Petroleum has put illegal cooking gas dealers on notice as it signaled an intensified battle to curb the rising illicit trade. About 98 oil marketing companies have also been warned for failing to comply with the law, Petroleum PS Andrew Kamau said yesterday. He said a special police unit has been seconded to the Energy Regulatory Commission, the industry regulator, to help crack down on rogue Liquefied Petroleum Gas dealers. Energy CS Charles Keter has designated Mombasa as the only point of entry for LPG, a move aimed at locking out traders from importing cooking gas through Tanzania. &ldquo;The Customs (Kenya Revenue Authority) will communicate to LPG dealers by the end of this month on the closure of imports through Tanzania,&rdquo; Kamau said during a Kenya Pipeline Company forum in Nairobi. Cheaper LPG from Zambia has reportedly been finding its way into the country through Tanzania, with most of it ending in illegal refueling plants. The Petroleum Bill, currently before the Senate, will also instill stiffer penalties once it becomes law, the PS said. &ldquo;Right now, the penalties are between Sh30,000 and Sh40,000 which anybody can pay. When we go to the new bill, the penalties are between Sh3 and Sh4 million with jail a term,&rdquo; Kamau said. The government has also put on notice 87 oil marketers which are allegedly operating without valid licences. The firms have also failed to comply with KPC&rsquo;s transport and storage agreement, negatively impacting on evacuation of fuel through the pipeline and from storage facilities. KPC managing director Joe Sang&rsquo; said the firms have 90 days from April 1 to comply, failing which they will be locked out of business. &ldquo;We have written to them. If they will not have complied by end of June, we will suspend them,&rdquo; Sang&rsquo; said. Players in the oil industry have for long petitioned the government to crack down on rogue cooking gas businesses to safeguard the market and ensure safety of the consumers. The Petroleum Institute of East Africa said illicit refilling of LPG is still rampant, exposing Kenyans to danger while denying genuine players revenues.