The 2015 national champions Laiser Hill and Upper Hill sailed to semi-finals after winning their last preliminary matches in their respective pools.Laiser topped Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; after beating Kakamega High 10-8 while Upper Hill reigned supreme in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; with a 28-0 demolition of St Mary&rsquo;s Yala.The 2003 champions St. Mary&rsquo;s Yala and 2013 kings Kakamega High also booked slots in the semis after finishing runners up in Group &lsquo;A&rsquo; and &lsquo;B&rsquo; respectively.In today&rsquo;s semi-finals, Upper Hill face Kakamega High in the first semi-final while Laiser Hill take on St. Mary&rsquo;s Yala in second semi. Laiser Hill, under the current Kenya Lionesses coach Kevin Wambua, went ahead through Joel Lazusa&rsquo;s try in 14th minute with Johnstone Olindi missing the conversion for a 5-0 lead.Derrick Ashiundu reduced the arrears for the Western-based side with a penalty in the 18th minute to reduce the margin to 5-3. Laiser Hill then piled on the pressure and were awarded with unconverted try courtesy of Charles Tendwa in the 36th minute for a 10-3 lead.Kakamega scored their second try after Chrisant Ojwang&rsquo; touched down in the 59th minute but Ashiundu missed the conversion that would have tied the match. In the match between Upper Hill and St. Mary&rsquo;s, first half tries by Madrugadah Jonathan (2nd minute) and Brian Kimani i(29th minute) and two conversions by Smith Rolph saw the Charles Wagwe coached side to go 14-0 up at the interval. On resumption, George Abayo scored two tries (42nd and 55th minute) while Said Abdalla added two conversions to complete the rout.In other pool games, Central region champions Alliance Boys beat Kangaru Boys 26-15 to finish third in Group &lsquo;A&rsquo; behind Upper Hill and St. Mary&rsquo;s.Samuel Ombati capitalised on Kangaru&rsquo;s poor defence in the opening minute to score a try while Andrew Matoka covered it for a 7-0 lead. Richard Omedo was next on the score sheet with an 18th minute touch down, which was duly converted for a 14-0 lead.Junior Musambia reduced Alliance&rsquo;s lead with a try in the 20th minute before missing the conversion to trail 14-5. Victor Koskey extended Alliance&rsquo;s lead with an unconverted try for 19-5 lead with Samuel Ombati nailing the final try for Alliance in the 35th minute. Allan Sifuna slotted the home the conversion for 26-5 lead.Gibson Njiru and Erick Mugendi scored a try and a conversion each in an effort to reduce Alliance&rsquo;s lead in the 32nd minute. Mugendi was again tasked with converting Kangaru&rsquo;s penalty in the 50th minute to close out the scoresIn the final match of Group B played, hosts Nairobi School beat Galana School of coast 47-0. Ongeri Ignatius and Noah Kipkurui scored first half tries in the 20th and 32nd minute with Benjamin Rolan kicking over the conversions. Paul Okwemba touched down in the 36th minute and Phelix Scophield extended the hosts lead ten minutes later with a try.Mureithi Njoroge added his name to the score sheet in the 57th minute and Cruz Daniel extended the lead further in the 62nd minute with a try. Ignatius Ongeri was responsible for the hosts final try in the 65th minute. Phelix Scophield scored four conversions in the second half.