NASA relaunched 'The Pentagon' at the Bomas meeting at which it is expected to give the way forward on a flag bearer. ODM leader Raila said this in his address to an enthusiastic crowd at the Nairobi venue on Thursday. In the run up to the 2007 election, Raila assembled what was easily the most potent team in Kenya’s electoral history- the Pentagon. It was made up of a star-studded team of politicians representing most of Kenya’s regions. They included Musalia Mudavadi - now Amani National Congress leader, William Ruto, Joe Nyaga and Najib Balala. Charity Ngilu joined them later completing a team of six influential politicians. Raila said today that "the journey towards an inclusive, liberal, honest and vigorous nation that was cut short in 2013, through stolen elections, gets a new boost and fresh momentum". He is at the meeting with Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and new NASA principal Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto of Chama Cha Mashinani. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat has been seen at some of the Opposition's meetings. Read: Isaac Rutto joins NASA as fifth principal, promises Jubilee hard time in polls "Today we welcome a fifth member. With Ruto on board, we have a new general particularly for our battle to protect and preserve devolution," Raila said. The Opposition chief said the big tent that the National Super Alliance set out to build was becoming a reality and that the nation's unity was within sight. "I am proud to welcome Ruto to the NASA Summit. With his entry, we launch a new march towards August 8 elections on which day we shall liberate Kenyans from the yoke of Jubilee," he said. Raila added that Kenyans will see NASA in its true and grand colours as the face of the nation. "A rainbow leadership for a rainbow nation is emerging in the horizon. We begin a new journey characterised by bold, candid, honest and truthful engagement with our citizens to resolve the problems afflicting our nation," he said. The ODM leader said that unlike Jubilee, they will not lie to the people about the state of the nation. "We will confront the reality of a nation too divided to stand for long. We will not lie that we have done all we can to rein in corruption when our associates, family members and friends are fueling it and reaping from it," he said. He said the coalition will soon unveil and launch its manifesto "which will be our contract with the people of Kenya." "We promise it will be a contract worth the signature of every Kenyan. Then we will hit the road to the election," he said. Raila said they remain faithful to the seven pillar policy platform in the run up to the poll and beyond. The platforms are: Read: 'Desperate' Jubilee behind fake script naming Kalonzo Nasa flag bearer - ODM Also read: NASA flag bearer choice rests with principals, not committee - Kalonzo 