The Kilifi government will recover Sh51 million stolen through Ifmis using stolen passwords of 10 officials.This is after a Kilifi court ruled the six companies that received the money should return it.The judgment was delivered by senior principal magistrate Robinson Ondiek on March 24 and 27.The Kilifi government lost the cash after the electronic money transfer system was manipulated. Culprits are said to have stolen passwords belonging to 10 county officials, used them to access the Ifmis and siphoned money. The 10 officials were suspended pending investigations. In a press briefing at his office on Wednesday, Governor Amason Kingi praised the judgment and said two companies have agreed to return the cash.They are Zohali Services and Jahazi Investments. officials in courtOfficials appeared in court and acknowledged they received the cash illegally. Zohali is linked to former Garsen MP and Tana River governor aspirant Danson Mungatana.The directors of the other four companies &mdash; Daima One Ltd, Leadership Edge Consultants, Makegra Ltd and Kilingi Investments &mdash; were not present and Ondiek ruled in their absence.Last year, the county filed a civil suit to recover the money fraudulently wired to different accounts from its main account at the CBK.Jahazi will return Sh6.1 million. The amount will be paid to Kilifi government&rsquo;s CBK account in monthly installments of Sh1million, inclusive of costs. In the case of Zohali Sh9.2 million will be returned. The CBK was able to recall a separate Sh3 million before it was paid to Zohali. &ldquo;The parties have since consented and an order was issued directed to the bank unfreezing the account and enabling a reversal of the transaction to the Central Bank,&rdquo; Kingi said.He said the county will use auctioneers to recover the money from the other four companies.&ldquo;This is a great step we have made and we hope that all our stolen money will be back to us,&rdquo; he said.Meanwhile, the Ethics and AntiCorruption Commission has filed an application at the Kilifi law courts seeking to have it enjoined to the case.It says this will enable the court to adjudicate and settle all questions in in the suit.The case will be heard on April 26.The case will be mentioned on July 5.