The Kenya Sevens rugby team will kick off their Hong Kong Sevens campaign this afternoon (3:18pm) with a match against Canada.Head coach Innocent Simiyu has plenty to ponder after a series of poor results which have seen Kenya drop to 12th place in the IRB standings with 40 points.Shujaa play their second match tomorrow at 8:56am against series leaders South Africa. The two sides have met twice this season in Sydney and Vancouver with South Africa emerging victorious on both occasions. Their final match will be against France at 12:34pm.The team has been hit by last minute pullouts following the withdrawal of Willy Ambaka and Dan Sikuta from the team on Sunday. Ambaka has been replaced by Billy Odhiambo, who linked up with the team yesterday. However, It&rsquo;s still unclear if he will be involved in any of the weekend matches with reports suggesting that Kenya will gamble with eleven players and rope Odhiambo in the Singapore Sevens.Dennis Ombachi is making a comeback in the squad for the first time this season and could alternate with Collins Injera on the wing. However, head coach Simiyu could use Injera at the centre. Brian Tanga is back in the squad as well and could start as the team&rsquo;s fly-half with Sammy Oliech deployed on the wing.&ldquo;We have some players, who will double up in some positions. We have the likes of Oliech, who can play in any position from fly-half to wing and we also have Ombachi who, we can move to prop since he has played in that position before,&rdquo; said Simiyu.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a good pool. We have good shot and we can hit our targets. We&rsquo;ve played some of these teams before and we can get good results against them,&rdquo; he added.Kenya have to win at least two matches to book a place in the Main Cup quarter final after consistently featuring in Challenge Trophy since the Wellington Sevens. The team has only played in one Main Cup quarter-final during the Cape Town Sevens.Meanwhile, the Kenya Lionesses are through to the quarter-finals of the Hong Kong Sevens, which is a qualifying tournament for next season&rsquo;s IRB circuit, ladies category after winning two matches and losing one.The first match saw Kenya come from 12-21 down to beat host Hong Kong 24-21, thanks to Sinaida Aura&rsquo;s hat-trick and Celestine Masinde&rsquo;s try. Kenya played Belgium next and lost 7-5 despite Aura&rsquo;s try in the last minutes of the match. The Girls then wrapped up their Day One campaign with 17-7 victory over Argentina.