Egypt's Qalaa Holdings, the majority shareholder in a consortium that operates the Kenya-Uganda railway line, is fighting to have the termination notice for the concession lifted. The firm fears it will lose billions of shillings in planned exit from the Rift Valley Railways through sale of its controlling stake to a strategic investor. RVR argues the termination notice by the Kenya Railways Authority for the 25-year concession has jolted the sale talks with a strategic , which it argues were in the final stages. RVR chief executive Isaiah Okoth claimed in a statement yesterday that the validity of the termination notice, issued on Friday last week by KRC, is yet to be determined by court. He said the management and staff remain in place and are operating the Railway services as normal. Okoth argued that in the event a valid termination notice is issued, they will still have six months to cure any defaults that may have occurred during the execution of the concession. &ldquo;Given that the notice of intention to terminate the concession was about to expire and despite the discussions with KRC and negotiations with the potential investor, RVR sought the intervention of the court for a protective order which was issued on March 31 allowing the two parties time to negotiate an amicable resolution of the issues raised in the notices,&rdquo; he said. KRC reportedly terminated the contract last Thursday, citing RVR&rsquo;s failure to meet set operating targets, including payment of concession fees. The termination process was set in motion in January when KRC managing director Atanas Maina issued RVR with a notice over unpaid fees estimated at Sh600 million, and a string of misses in cargo haulage targets. In the contract, RVR was to pay concession or leasing fees to the Ugandan and Kenyan governments through KRC on a quarterly basis. But since January last year, the concessionaire has allegedly not paid the fees. According to the statement, RVR in January and February this year, received a notice of default and later a notice of intention to terminate the contract from KRC. It said even though they have challenged the substance and the processes of the notices, it has been in discussions with KRC on the possibility of lifting the notices and enabling RVR to conclude its discussions with a potential investor.