Top six teams in the National Super League have an equal chance of assuming leadership after this weekend&rsquo;s fixtures.The teams are separated by three points ahead of the nine encounters on the card this weekend.Vihiga United, who are currently top of the table, travel to Machakos for a game against sixth-placed Kenya Commercial Bank on Monday.Vihiga, who are sponsored by the Vihiga County Government, will be without six first team players, who are down with injuries. They include Jacob Atinda, Kevin Muhanji, Caleb Wanyonyi and Bernard Ochieng, according to Coach Edward Manoah.&ldquo;The injuries provide an opportunity for fringe players to play and show they deserve a place in the starting line up and therefore, I&rsquo;m not worried,&rdquo; he said.Manoah admitted that this season&rsquo;s league is very competitive. &ldquo;The top six teams are separated by three points. That shows that the league is more competitive than last season when Nzoia opened a huge gap,&rdquo; he added.His sentiments were shared by Palos&rsquo; coach Paul Ogai. &ldquo;If you look at number one to seven, they are separated by a mere four points and this shows the level of competition in the league. Remember no team wants to drop points,&rdquo; said Ogai.Ogai spoke ahead of his team&rsquo;s clash against Nairobi City Stars on Sunday at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Jericho. &ldquo;City Stars are a very experienced side and they are coached by an equally experienced man, Robert Matano. We are targeting to get at least a draw,&rdquo; he said. The game will be live on Bamba Sport.Fifth-placed Administration Police will have a fully fit squad when they play eighth-placed Nakuru All Stars at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. &ldquo;We are going to Nakuru for maximum points,&rdquo; said AP liaison officer Isaac Nyaruri.Tomorrow, second-placed Wazito hope to reclaim the top spot when they entertain St. Joseph&rsquo;s Youth while a resurgent Isibania FC travel to Chemelil to battle fellow strugglers Agro Chemicals.In other matches scheduled for Sunday, early pace setters GFE 105 welcome fourth-placed Nairobi Stima while Kenya Police entertain Bidco United.On Monday, Kibera Black Stars host third-placed Ushuru as Talanta face off with last-placed Mosca.