One day, an argument arose between the wind and the sun on who was stronger. To settle this dispute, an unsuspecting traveller became their battlefield. The rule was simple. The undisputed winner would force the traveller to take off his coat. So the wind huffed and puffed. But the more he blew, the tighter the traveller held onto his coat. Finally, he gave up in despair.Then the sun begun to shine. At first his gentle beams felt pleasant after the bitter cold of the wind. As the rays intensity increased, the traveller unbuttoned his coat. Soon, he began mopping his brow. Finally, he could not stand the heat anymore. He took off his coat and rested under a shade.Moral of the story: If you want a man to take off his coat, don&rsquo;t blow it off; make him feel warm.Recently, the temperature has been rising forcing two men to take off their coats. One has narrated the harsh conditions that defined his academic experience. He crowned his account by admitting that he was the proud holder of a D- grade in his KCSE exam. The other generously shared a moment frozen in time that only a few can identify with. That of the privilege of enjoying academic and economic advantages others can only dream of.Being the vibrant nation we are, we have two unique identifiers: One, we do not agree on many things and Two, we are never short of free public entertainment. But one thing we can all agree on is that a schoolyard fight has been in the offing. The muscle flexing publicly started with the official opening of what some called a footpath. And it has culminated into this battle of examination grades.To echo what many have been asking, &lsquo;what&rsquo;s in a grade or a university qualification?&rsquo; Do they make one a better leader, patriot, entrepreneur, employee, or parent?I hypothesise that what informed the inclusion of the prerequisite of a university degree for public office into our 2010 Constitution, was the bias towards the signaling model of education. This model converts education into a race where people trounce their rivals, by continuously striving to get a higher qualification to signal to potential employers their elevated intelligence or ability to perform. Unfortunately, these well-intentioned constitutional pre-conditions have created negative externalities. You see, it used to be the case that the more educated a person was, the more the likelihood of getting a better job with a higher pay. In pursuit of this conviction, and our self-inflicted pledges of free education for all, many people have flocked back into the classrooms. Ultimately, this has created more supply than demand, and made a mirage of the better jobs and higher salaries.Therefore, to distinguish yourself among the limited number of employers, you acquire an additional qualification. And the guy next door does the same. To be even more impressive, you obtain the next advanced degree. And he follows suit. With everybody signaling more, employers then raise their bar, leaving many certified but unemployed people. Then in classic fashion, we blame the government for not creating enough jobs.Tragically, however, is the dissonance between the certificate acquired and the professional etiquette and character required. Take the cases of the number of politicians who, because of this prerequisite, have gone back to earn a degree. There is very little evidence to suggest that the manner in which they engage in their politics has improved as a result. Further, reflect on the uncultured behaviour displayed by striking educated professionals; or the damage inflicted by striking university students; or the fistfights that inevitably follow a disagreement amongst our leaders.Do you know why the Marines are the best at what they do? Because like good mothers, their leaders eat last. They view leadership as a responsibility not an entitlement. However, it is evident that our education system does not mould our character to selflessly serve others. It instead indoctrinates us on rank. We conform to the notion that success means being number one in academics and in sports. To reinforce this view, our lawmakers reintroduced a bill in support of school ranking in national exams.Why then do we act surprised when our leaders jostle for public recognition, overlap in traffic, take the best front seats in church, are served first and with the finest, and enrich themselves first at the expense of their subjects? Are they not just perpetuating the rank syndrome proselytised by years of education?Imagine if it was constitutionally mandated that to become a parent, you must have a university degree. Sounds absurd, right? But fundamentally a good leader is like a good parent. The latter puts the lives of their children before their own. Equally, good leaders are those who abandon their selfish interests for the advancement of their constituents. And just like becoming a good parent is a choice, becoming a good leader is also a choice and not dependent on university qualifications.Ernst and Young, a reputable accounting and recruiting firm, recently removed the degree requirement as a prerequisite for its hires. This shift was informed by a study (Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission) that conclusively found no evidence that success in university was correlated with achievement in professional spaces. While they still take academic qualifications into account when assessing candidates, one&rsquo;s academic performance&szlig; no longer acts as a barrier for talented and promising individuals.We know that you can be engaged in an activity without really achieving it, for example dieting without losing weight. Similarly, our leaders can spend time acquiring certification without achieving the qualities of good leadership.So then, isn&rsquo;t it time we conceded the false dichotomy between a university qualification and good leadership and subsequently review our Constitution?&lsquo;The prince is to the nation he governs, what the head is to the man. It is his duty to see, think and act for the whole community&rsquo; &ndash; Fredrick the Great.Mugwe is a political economist