Anxiety over the forthcoming general elections, tight regulatios and access to capital are the top challenges threatening growth in the private sector, a survey of top chief executives suggested yesterday. The private sector also faces competition from cheap imports, increased taxation and delayed payment, the survey by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance and research firm Trends and Insights For Africa indicates. &ldquo;The largest challenge facing businesses is the anxiety over the general elections. Due to this concern, businesses are holding back as they adopt a wait and see attitude,&rdquo; TIFA director Maggie Ireri said. The CEO business confidence index interviewed 90 chief executives on their expectations on the economic performance in the next six months. The August 8 general elections top with a 20 per cent index. Legislations, competition and access to capital have a 16 per cent weight each.Among laws that have rattled manufacturers is the proposed ban on plastic bags by Environment CS Judi Wakhungu which comes into effect in September. Uncertain regulatory and legal environment, customs and minimum wage are among key concerns, the CEOs cited. Market liquidity and insecurity are the least concerns. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers has warned that the ban will lead to the loss of about 60,000 jobs directly and another 400,000 indirectly , with about Sh5.26 billion in annual revenues being wiped out of the economy. The private sector has also faced a decline in credit growth which fell to 4.3 per cent in December 2016 compared to more than 17 per cent a year earlier. This has largely been pegged on rising loan default rates and the interest cap law enforced last September. Kepsa CEO Carole Kariuki (pictured below) yesterday said the private sector has conducted a month long study on the impact of the rates cap, whose findings will be shared with the Central Bank of Kenya on May 10.&ldquo;I believe this is something that we can address,&rdquo; Kariuki said. She said the sector, however, remains attractive to new investments with foreign direct investments expected to continue flowing into the country. Key areas for FDIs will be in agri-business, energy sector, construction, research, health and financial sectors. &ldquo;None of our sectors has reached full capacity. There is a lot of interest in many areas,&rdquo; She said.