Outgoing Kenya Airways chief executive Mbuvi Ngunze says he was asked to delay his exit from the airline at the end of March to help in the implementation of recovery strategy until the airline’s board finds his replacement. The carrier is in talks with its creditors to amend terms of its debt and provide it with sufficient funds for operation in the short term. “The chairman asked if I could extend my stay to work on capital optimisation programme and I obliged. When the board is ready to announce my replacement, they will (and I will leave),” Ngunze said. He said KQ is working closely with US investment bank PJT Partners which has been keen to help the airline raise new debt and equity funds. The national carrier, owned 27 per cent by Air France KLM and 29.8 per cent by the Kenyan  government,  has previously indicated it requires fresh capital of about Sh70 billion. “We are working on a consensual approach in terms of what we are doing. The refinancing is a very delicate conversation because it involves a lot of stakeholders, so it is important that we go through a very deliberate process,” he said. Ngunze was set to leave the helm of KQ on March 31 as announced by the chairman Michael Joseph on November 24, last year. He spoke at the KQ headquarters on Wednesday during the branding of Kenya Airways’ Boeing 787-8 with the Magical Kenya logo. “My replacement will come when the board is ready and sometimes let us get this straight, because of corporate governance, it is important to understand the board,” Ngunze said. Joseph last month said four candidates had been short-listed and their credentials were to be presented to the board mid this month for the final pick. Joseph has been on record saying the incoming CEO is likely to be an expatriate, with a turnaround experience in the sector. The national carrier has been implementing a raft of measures under the ‘Operation Pride’ recovery strategy, spearheaded by Ngunze. The initiative, aimed at returning the airline to profitability, involves right-sizing of staff and rationalisation of its fleet to cut operating costs. On October 27 2016,  KQ announced an operating profit of Sh900 million, bringing net loss down to Sh4.78 billion for the half year ended September 30. “I am fully involved and vested in the day to day operations and the financial restructuring,” Ngunze, who has been at the carrier’s helm since December 2014, said. KQ flew 3.4 million passengers in 2016-17, the highest number in its four decades of existence, the airline said last November. “Over the last two years, Kenya Airways has weathered the most turbulent period in its four-decade history,” Joseph said.