Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to keep off Mombasa politics and allow residents to choose their own leader.Omar said President Uhuru&rsquo;s theatrics with Governor Hassan Joho only serves to give the Governor more political mileage than he deserves.&ldquo;Anyone who is not from Mombasa, be it the President or any other, keep off the politics of Mombasa so that the people of Mombasa can determine who they want to lead them,&rdquo; said Omar.He spoke on Sunday evening during the launch of aspirant Daniel Muange&rsquo;s Changamwe MP bid at the Akamba Handicraft. &ldquo;Leave that man(Joho) alone. We can deal with him,&rdquo; said Omar.Omar said the tactics Jubilee is using against Joho are not working.Uhuru and Joho have engaged in a political battle over development in Mombasa county.The government has, through the Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya National Examination Council, sought Joho for ostensibly failing to remit taxes and forging KCSE documents to gain admission into the University of Nairobi.&ldquo;You are shifting the conversation of Mombasa county. We want that man with D- on the ballot. That tactic to bar him from the ballot is not viable. The guy is beatable. He has done nothing for the people of Mombasa,&rdquo; said Omar.Read:Joho may face Omar, Awiti for MombasaOmar said Joho is a beatable candidate who is currently banking on sympathy votes from Mombasa residents.&ldquo;Let Joho be on the ballot so that we beat him,&rdquo; said Omar.The Star could not immediately get a response from Joho or his spokesman Richard Chacha as both were unreachable by phone.The Senator said the respect and decorum with which he conducts himself should not fool anyone that he is too soft to deal with Joho in the political arena.The Senator also took a swipe at Nyali MP Hezron Awiti saying he left the Wiper party to form his own Vibrant Democratic Party because the heat was too much for him.Also read: Kalonzo asks Awiti, Omar to join forces to beat JohoAwiti is expected to launch his VDP party on Tuesday.He will vie for the Mombasa Governor seat on the VDP ticket.Awiti said he left the Wiper party because there was too much favouritism at his expense and that the nominations would not have been free and fair.On Sunday, Omar said he would have beaten Awiti at the nominations.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t think he left because the nominations would have not been free and fair. It is because we were well prepared. If you say &lsquo;Ho&rsquo; we prepare ourselves. If you say &lsquo;Ha&rsquo;, we continue preparing ourselves,&rdquo; Omar said alluding to Awiti&rsquo;s trademark hype before or during his speeches.But speaking on phone, Awiti said Omar is a passing cloud that will not deliver any rain to &lsquo;drought-stricken&rsquo; people of Mombasa.&ldquo;There is a development drought in Mombasa that Omar cannot solve. He is just an overambitious son who thinks he can beat his father in parenting,&rdquo; said Awiti.Also read: Joho not fit to be President in 2022, says Senator Omar