Rising athletics stars converge in Eldoret next weekend for national pre-trials ahead of the World Under-18 athletics Championships.The event will precede the main trials to be held in Nairobi in June, athletes selected from the pre-trials will battle it out for places in the national trials.Billy Konchellah, a member the World Under-18 Nairobi 2017 Steering Committee, said the pre-trials will be held at Kipchoge Keino Stadium on May 5-6.&ldquo;Each region will send 80 athletes to the two-day pre-trials next weekend,&rdquo; said Konchellah when he toured Sang&rsquo;oro and Mogonga athletics camps on Thursday.Nyanza North&rsquo;s Sang&rsquo;oro camp has 41 athletes and Nyanza South&rsquo;s Mogonga has 61 preparing for the pre-trials.Konchellah, a former world 800m champion, was accompanied by Nyanza North chairman Joseph Ochieng and his Nyanza South counterpart Peter Angwenyi. Ann Nyokabi from the Ministry of Sports was also present. The retired athlete was impressed by the progress in the two camps and was optimistic that some athletes from there will represent the country in the July 12-16 championships at Kasarani.&ldquo;We came here to assess the level of preparedness and what I have seen is encouraging. The government will continue supporting these initiatives to that we nurture more athletes. Focusing more on field events and sprints will help us get medals in the events, where we are not doing well,&rdquo; said Konchellah.He added: &ldquo;I never dreamt that one day Kenya can win a gold medal in World Championships in Javelin and 400m hurdles. Julius Yego and Nicholas Bett have now inspired more athletes.&rdquo;He said Kenya wants to break the record by entering more than 177 athletes for the championships. Konchellah played down the withdrawals of US, Britain, New Zealand, Australia, Switzerland and Canada from participating in the games. The countries withdrew citing security concerns.&ldquo;So far 144 countries have confirmed participation. Kenya will stage one of the best shows so that in future we are considered for the World Junior and senior championships,&rdquo; added Konchellah, who visited Kilgoris and Keroka athletics camps yesterday. He discouraged the young athletes against the use of performance enhancing drugs. &ldquo;Doping is a major embarrassment to this country and even President Uhuru is not happy. You can run and win clean. Just work hard and stay disciplined. You can be a world champion without taking shortcuts,&rdquo; he said.