About 100,000 people have been displaced in the wake of the recent violence that occurred in South Sudan&rsquo;s Jonglei state region, a top United Nations official said on Thursday. Eugene Owusu, the UN humanitarian coordinator for South Sudan said aid workers have also been forced out of the area, expressing concerns over the dire humanitarian situation in the region, Sudan Tribune reported.&ldquo;The humanitarian challenges that we are dealing with are the consequences of the failure of politics to reconcile differences and to address grievances. We must fix the politics, all parties must step up efforts towards the political solution to help lessen the humanitarian case-load,&rdquo; he further observed.This comes just weeks after Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission chairman and former Botswana President Festus Mogae regretted that repeated calls for peace had gone unheeded and by design or default, and the war in South Sudan is being waged as the security and humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate. He spoke in mid-March. As Mogae said, the South Sudanese conflict cannot be solved through military interventions. The parties in the conflict must be ready to listen to all views, accommodate all constituencies as well as compromise on their hard stances. Noteworthy, a political solution cannot be imposed upon any one side of the South Sudanese conflict. All the people and communities in South Sudan must see that their interests and concerns are being represented: This will the through a genuinely democratic dispensation. As happens in many other conflicts, the insecurity and armed violence is South Sudan is a direct result of the perception and reality of political exclusion from the peace process. This needs to be fixed.And to fix this, we must refer to the peace agreement that the Sudanese People&rsquo;s Liberation Movement and the SPLM-In Opposition signed in August 2015, bringing to an end the two-year civil war. The agreement provided for; the establishment of the Transitional Government of National Unity of the Republic of South Sudan (unification of forces under a permanent ceasefire and humanitarian assistance), transitional justice, accountability and reconciliation and other sub-goals that included demobilisation, disarmament and elections. The concerned parties must ask themselves, have we made any progress on these key issues? I fear not.In conflict management, the greater the difficulty in the environment of operation, the greater the likelihood that peace implementation will fail. And this difficult environment has been courtesy of President Salva Kiir&rsquo;s regime. As I have written before, when antagonists in civil war sign a peace deal, what must be ensured is progress is not upended with recurrence of war, as is now the case. So for South Sudan to end this war, there has to be political willingness, among the parties themselves and especially the government of South Sudan, the international community, regional organisations and other concerned players to provide resources for the peace agreement&rsquo;s successful implementation.