The number of plain clothes police officers based at the Jubilee Party Headquarters in Pangani seems to be growing daily. The mean looking officers walk around the place all day and night despite the presence of G4S officers. This has raised questions whether there is very sensitive data or equipment inside the building. Jubilee has assailed NASA on its plans to carry out parallel tallying on August 8. Is the ruling coalition also having a similar game plan? Well, the party had revealed that they have hired more than 300 staff. On Sunday, IEBC said they have not given their register to any political party. There were earlier rumours that the register that is still being cleaned has been leaked from anniversary towers.***** Has Opposition Chief Raila Odinga remained economical with information even to people close to him? Sources whispered to Corridors that Raila is not talking about his game plan anymore. Those who campaigned for the former premier in the 2013 polls said the ODM leader fears information being leaked to the National Intelligence Service. What surprises many is that most people around him cannot track or easily get information from the former premier like they used to in 2013. ***** A senior Jubilee operative protested that people around the President do not learn easily to change tactic when faced with a strong opposition. The political operative said both Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and Mombasa's Hassan Joho rose up following continued attacks and intimidation by the Executive. He said it was clear that any fight between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Jubilee administration against other political leaders in the opposition eventually turns against the President. A good example is the government investigation of Joho's education certificates. Social media users allied to the opposition had to attack the President and demand answers from the Amherst College in the United States for Uhuru's own academic papers. This, he argued, turned the &ldquo;international spotlight&rdquo; on the President. The official argued politics is about learning and changing tack. ***** That Murang'a county politics is one of the most politically charged is no news. What is news is that there are groupings that have formed and divided the county into two &mdash; Governor Mwangi Wairia's followers and MP Jamleck Kamau's. On Saturday night one of the groups planned to meet some Jubilee Party officials at some hotel said to be a hub of 'power-making meetings', but when the second group knew of the plans they stormed the premises. It is said that a woman aspirant ran for her life in what has become political comedy in the area. She left behind her shoes when angry residents stormed the hotel.