The season might still be young but signs abound that this is going to be the most open title race in recent years. After just three matches, all teams have dropped points with only new boys Kariobangi Sharks and Zoo Kericho yet to register a point on board. Serial contenders Gor Mahia must show that last weekend&rsquo;s implosion away at Western Stima was a mere blip when they host Kakemga Homeboyz.Gor took the lead in that match but went on to lose with fears rife that they could for a second successive season part ways with their coach early in the campaign, derailing their ambitions.Homeboyz will hope to take advantage of any uncertainty in the K&rsquo;Ogalo&rsquo;s ranks and dent their title aspirations early in the season.Striker Jacques Tuyisenge will once again be relied upon to get the goals that will steer Gor to the three points. Debutantes Nakumatt got their first win in top flight football last weekend against Zoo and will be confident of more today when they tackle Sony Sugar in the opening match of the weekend. Sony have blown hot and cold so far in the season with the home defeat to Chemelil Sugar followed by a narrow win over Thika United. It is something that their coach will need to address if the former champions are to hit the highs of their glory days. Muhoroni Youth still being haunted by their near relation must start producing results on the pitch and avoid antagonising the league management body.Last week, they were slapped with a hefty fine by the SDT that they will need to pay their former players for breach of contract and have disciplinary action pending from KPL over their role in their botched tie against Homeboyz.However justified he might be, fiery club chairman Moses Adagala must let the players concentrate on getting points on the field starting with a tough tie against Mathare United at 3pm this afternoon. Tomorrow, Sharks will feel that their situation can change today when they face fellow promoted side Nzoia Sugar. It is, however, the clash between Tusker and Sofapaka that will be watched keenly. The brewers ended a run of two defeats with a win last weekend while Sofapka&rsquo;s upward mobility continue and they will be hoping to maintain the run in today&rsquo;s clash in Thika.