Heavy rains and storms are likely to sweep through Western Kenya, Rift Valley, Central and the Coast this weekend, and could leave behind causalities. The meteorological services warned the storms begin today and end on Monday evening. In an emergency alert, the weatherman said the there is a &ldquo;moderate probability of occurrence&rdquo; which means a 33 per cent to 66 per cent chance the storms will come as predicted. Acting head of Met services Peter Ambenje said the severity of the rains would range from mild to moderate. He said they will issue more advisories if conditions change significantly. &ldquo;Residents in all areas are advised to be on the lookout for heavy rainfall that may result in flashfloods and lightning in some areas. People should avoid driving, wading or walking through any fast moving waters,&rdquo; he said. Ambenje said areas of concern are Kwale, Taita Taveta (Taita Hills and areas bordering Tanzania), Mombasa and southern parts of Kilifi. Counties around around Mt Kenya will also be affected. They include Nairobi, Embu, Nyeri and Meru among others. Others are Western Kenya and Rift Valley counties that include Kisii, Migori, Kisumu, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Narok, Nandi, Kericho, Bomet, Nakuru and Uasin Gishu. Southern parts of Turkana and West Pokot will also be affected. &ldquo;Most of this rainfall will be in the morning over the coast and mainly in the afternoon and into the night for the other areas,&rdquo; Ambenje said. The storms come as the country steps into the end of the long rains season next month. April was the peak rainfall month this long-rains season, but they begin to dwindle in May. A review of the month&rsquo;s weather shows April rains were irregular and were often replaced with long dry spells. Sunny and dry weather conditions remained dominant over northeastern, although Western received heavy rains. This means the country is not out of the woods yet and effects of the drought will continue to be felt. In February, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared drought a natural disaster, saying at least three million people faced starvation in 23 counties.