The killing of three commercial sex workers in Mombasa last month in separate incidents has sent chills down the spines of their colleagues, who feel targeted by a serial killer.Two of the slain sex workers were dumped in Shanzu and Changamwe towns. One has been identified as Pauline Atieno. She was picked by a male client from Mtwapa and found dead on a roadside in Shanzu. A police officer handling the case said Mtwapa residents fear to come forward as witnesses. The latest victim is Martha Simiyu, 23, whose body was found in a guest room at Casablanca club in a pool of blood. She posed for a client on Moi Avenue near Mombasa&rsquo;s iconic tusks on March 25. Described as a quiet person, she was lured by a man, yet to be identified, who went on to kill her.STABBED SIX TIMESAn autopsy report indicates that she died from haemorrhage caused by multiple wounds. She was stabbed more than six times before the man slit her throat.Unused condoms were recovered from the room, implying the man didn&rsquo;t sleep with her and that the killing was not accidental.&ldquo;We suspect she may have been the victim of a premeditated murder,&rdquo; reads an investigation report. &ldquo;Investigators have established that the main suspect had bought a sword that he used it to kill her.&rdquo;According to the report, Simiyu was picked by a man known to her. He bought her a drink and miraa just a few metres from the guest house. After some hours, they checked in to the guest room.Records of the man were not captured, as the man was clever enough to have used Simiyu to pay for the room at the reception.&ldquo;Upon arriving at the guest house, the man closed the door, stabbed her multiple times before slitting her throat, and then left her lying in the bed in a pool of blood,&rdquo; a detective told the Star.Pathologists who conducted an autopsy said the woman&rsquo;s throat was slit from ear to ear, with the wound extending to the back of her neck. The report seen by the Star indicates the attacker didn&rsquo;t attempt to steal her car.The family said all along, they have known their daughter to be working in a hotel, until media reports revealed her other side.They said they are now finding it difficult to get funds from their relatives to transport the body to Busia for burial.&ldquo;Everyone has turned against us. We are the only people working hard to ensure we lay her to rest because everyone ran away after knowing our daughter never worked in a hotel,&rdquo; a family member said.&ldquo;We travelled all the way from Busia knowing she was a waitress in a hotel, only to see in the media that she was sex worker.&rdquo;Urban police boss Lucas Ogaro said the motive of the murder is still unclear.&ldquo;It was a daring incident that detectives are still investigating. The killing was well planned and the attacker ensured he left no trace. He took away the murder weapon,&rdquo; he said.Ogaro said cyber crime detectives are still analysing Simiyu&rsquo;s mobile phone for leads.&ldquo;He ordered reservation of an isolated room and was able to kill her without detection because of the loud music from the club. It was hard to hear her scream or any commotion. He had done enough research,&rdquo; Ogaro said.NO ARRESTS MADELast week, the Commercial Sex Workers&rsquo; Alliance in Mombasa held a peaceful demonstration, accusing police of inaction over the killing of Simiyu and the other sex workers.The sex workers, who were joined by gays, social workers and NGOs, marched from Casablanca club to the office of deputy county commissioner Mohammed Mahmoud, where they delivered their petition. Mahmoud was not present.In the petition, the alliance said it is disgraceful that no one has been arrested so far over the killings.CSWA director Benta Joseph called for comprehensive investigations and prosecution of the perpetrators.&ldquo;We are your sisters, mothers, brothers, fathers and wives. Please stop killing us,&rdquo; Benta said.The killings have raised suspicions that there might be a serial killer on the loose, preying on sex workers.In 2010, the country was in shock after self-confessed serial killer Philip Onyancha admitted in court to having killed up to 19 people in one year, mainly sex workers, and drinking their blood.Onyancha fearlessly narrated how he used to lure women, rape and kill them before drinking their blood. He claimed he was initiated in the blood-sucking society by his teacher in form two.The serial killer said he picked up most of the women in bars between 2006 and 2010.SEXUAL MOTIVATIONPsychologists say a sexual element is often involved in serial killings. They are usually driven by an urge for psychological gratification.Social worker Esther Nelima said Mombasa has at least 10,500 sex workers. She said some of the sex workers are as young as 16 years, while the oldest is about 68 years.Nelima said the killings are just a tip of the iceberg of the problems sex workers suffer in the line of duty.She said the organisation has documented several cases of murder, sexual and physical assaults and general mistreatment of sex workers in Mombasa.At least 15 cases of physical torture, rape and even killings have been reported to Coswa in the first quarter of 2017.A victim of the heinous acts against sex workers said it is by luck that she survived her ordeal.Stella* (not her really name) got her client from Casablanca club at 2am and left with him to a place around town. On reaching the man&rsquo;s house, he turned against her, started beating her and forced himself on her, contrary to the agreement.He sodomised and raped her, and later took her national ID and all her clothes before throwing her out naked.She walked to the Central police naked. She was assisted by officer Nicholas, who dressed her and took her to report the incident.The police later told her to locate the perpetrator and report back to the police when she finds him.Nelima said such an attitude from the police has kept most victims from reporting assaults and instead suffer in silence.&ldquo;The cases might be more since most of them are not reported for fear of victimisation from the society,&rdquo; she said.Nelima called for a change of attitude towards sex workers in Kenya, as times have changed.&ldquo;We have seen sex workers educating their children up to university levels. People should know it is circumstances that have forced them into such business,&rdquo; she said.She said more organisations need to come out to fight and protect the rights of sex workers and support the ones who want to transform.&ldquo;There are younger ones who would like to go back to school but they lack support. If few people come out to sponsor them, we will be saving a generation and turning lives,&rdquo; Nelima said.PRECAUTIONSSexual workers educators say although it might not be easy to spot or identify who is about to prey on the women and men in the business, there are some things one can do if he falls victim or is targeted.Melis Warko, a counsellor with an NGO dealing with men and women sexual workers in Mombasa, advises the sex workers to avoid clients who appear troubled.&ldquo;Most of the troubled men love secluding themselves and mostly communicate less to avoid revealing their thoughts,&rdquo; he said.Warko said sex workers should also avoid going to homes of their clients or guest rooms of hotels that are unfamiliar to them.He said if it is a must they go, then they should let their colleagues know of their whereabouts.The counsellor also urged sex workers to avoid provoking their clients.&ldquo;We really advise our people against stealing from their clients or doing something that might trigger anger in them,&rdquo; he said.