Former KTN journalist Mohammed Ali who lost in the nominations for the Nyali MP race has said he will be on the ballot on August 8.Mohammed is competing with Joho's cousin, Said Salim alias Saido, for the Nyali ODM ticket.The 'Jicho Pevu' journalist who garnered 2,873 lost to Said Salim who got 3,672.But speaking to NTV on Sunday night, Mohammed said he will appeal the results to the Party election board because the exercise was not transparent. "I will be on the ballot whether on ODM or not. I will appeal to the party because I have video and picture evidence," Mohammed said.Mohammed claimed that Mombasa governor Hassan Joho - who was seen during the voting exercise- paid voters to support his cousin Salim. "The entire Joho family were walking around making sure they are paying off voters to vote against me. I have video evidence and picture evidence," he said.He said it was unfair for the governor to appear at the polling stations adding "it was a family affair and we can not have a credible election in a dishonest environment.""It is a family affair. If you see the governor showing up in a polling station, what are you going to feel?" he posed.But he noted that he had no problem with Joho adding "they wanted me out because i Im not a 'yes man'." "...but whatever he is doing is bad. I don't have personal problem with him but on this situation,we will not agree," he said."He did not beat me i am still the winner. i beat Salim in his home ground and even the police managed to arrest two guys and recovered marked printed ballot papers in favour of Said," he said.Noting that he wont ditch ODM, Mohammed said he entered politics to fix the county and will not leave it for anyone."I am still an ODM guy and the hullabaloo that i am going to jump ship should stop. I am confident that i will emerge winner if they are going to stick to the evidence," he said."... I came into politics to fix my country and even if I lose, that does not mean that I will stop what I am doing. I am in this business and I wlll still fix my country and if I can do it in any other way then I will do it."On April 22, Mohammed called for the cancellation of ODM primaries in Nyali constituency. He alleged a scheme by Joho and ODM top officials to rig him out.This was after he found his name missing in the party members register. According to Mohammed, polls were being held in only three polling stations, which are found in Abdhalla's Kongowea stronghold.The polls went on smoothly at Kongowea Social Hall, Mkomani Showground Gate A and Methodist Church voting centres. But Ali alleged there were centres were manned by Joho's point-men.He said registers were missing at Ziwa la Ngombe, Mlaleo Primary, Bahwan Primary and Kadzandani primary polling centres.[VIDEO] Mohammed Ali alleges ODM, Joho plot to rig him out of Nyali MP race