Funyula MP and Busia governor hopeful Paul Otuoma has vowed to be on the ballot on August 8, dashing hopes of consensus with his rival Governor Sospeter Ojaamong.Addressing a mammoth crowd in Busia town, Otuoma appeared to send mixed signals to ODM, saying he would be on the ballot with or without a certificate.But the Funyula MP maintained he is not ready to split ODM and jeopardise NASA principal Raila Odinga&rsquo;s presidential chances.&ldquo;I promise you I&rsquo;ll be on the ballot for the governorship of Busia... Already you&rsquo;ve given me the mandate.You&rsquo;ve said you know the governor you elected. So with or without [the nomination] certificate, Otuoma shall be the governor of Busia,&rdquo; he told the excited crowd.There have been fears the former Local Government minister, a key Raila ally, could decamp and run as an independent. But yesterday, he gave no indications of quitting, despite earlier giving the party a 48-hour ultimatum to hand him the certificate.&ldquo;We have built ODM with pain and sweat. So if I see anybody trying to split the baby, I&rsquo;m pained. I&rsquo;m saying if it&rsquo;s so difficult, let it not go down in history that Otuma divided ODM in Busia, which is the most orange county,&rdquo; he said, a hint he might leave the ticket to Ojaamong.At one time, in a mock swearing in ceremony, Otuoma vowed to protect the interest of residents as the new county boss. ODM secretary general Agnes Zani on Tuesday hinted at the possibility of solving the impasse between the two through consensus.Ojaamong has said he is not afraid of a repeat poll scheduled for April 25, but Otuma has vehemently opposed it.The incumbent was declared the winner in the last week&rsquo;s poll with 92,358 votes against the legislator&rsquo;s 63,752. However, the results were later annulled. ODM NEB said the repeat would only be in Teso North and Teso South constituencies.Yesterday, Otuoma tore into Ojaamong, accusing him of massive electoral fraud and likening the irregularities that marred the Busia results to those witnessed in the 2007 presidential election results.He said the outcome reminds him of how then-President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s PNU snatched victory from Raila&rsquo;s hands, despite the ODM leader&rsquo;s decisive triumph.&ldquo;I feel pained. This guy [Ojaamong] reminds me of Tharaka Nithi. The guy was allowed to appoint the referee, but even with that, we&rsquo;ve overrun him.&ldquo;The two Teso constituencies did not vote for Ojaamong in 2013, hence should not be victimised for the electoral fraud in that region.&ldquo;An individual commits crime, a community doesn&rsquo;t. The person who has committed crime is Ojaamong, not the Tesso community,&rdquo; he said, in veiled reference to the planned repeat poll.