National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale has made fun of ODM over its bungled nominations, saying the Jubilee Party&rsquo;s will be free and fair.On Saturday during a rally in Soko Ng&rsquo;ombe on Saturday, Duale said the Jubilee Party should not be compared to ODM. He said the Orange party nominations were rocked by chaos and results manipulated.Duale said Jubilee has prepared adequately for the primaries, saying the voter register and ballot boxes are ready. He said training of staff is going on.&ldquo;Primaries in ODM have always been like that. It is a party that is controlled by selected few, who are close to leader Raila Odinga. Expecting to see a free, fair and transparent nominations for ODM is like day dreaming,&rdquo; Duale said.He was referring to the bungled nominations in Busia, where Governor Sospeter Ojaamong was declared the winner, but the election was nullified soon after. Ojaamong was competing with Funyula MP Paul Otuoma. The party&rsquo;s election board cancelled the results and rescheduled it to April 25. Duale said, &ldquo;I have said it before and I will repeat it again that in ODM the party ticket is sold to the highest bidder. What I said is now coming to pass.&rdquo;He assured JP supporters and aspirants that things will be done differently in the primaries.Duale said the party has put in the necessary logistics to ensure whoever wins or loses will be satisfied with the nomination process.&ldquo;The National Elections Board, the secretariat and party leadership have invested a lot to have peaceful nominations,&rdquo; he said.Duale said the ultimate aim of the Jubilee Party is to have candidates elected by the wish of the people without chaos.He challenged the IEBC to move with speed and ensure it delivers verification kits to all locations by May 10.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want to see a scenario where voting centres share one kit. This may cause inconvenience during the August polls,&rdquo; he said.On Friday, ODM nullified results of the Busia governor nominations where Ojaamong was declared the winner. The party&rsquo;s National Elections Board said the process was marred by irregularities.The county elections board said Ojaamong won the ODM ticket with 92,358 votes against Funyula MP Paul Otuoma&rsquo;s 63,752 votes. NEB chairperson Judith Pareno, in a press statement, said a scrutiny of the results revealed flaws which can cause discord.The board said the results for the other seats will remain as they were received. Earlier, Otuoma said the process was flawed. &ldquo;People who voted in Teso South are more than the number registered with IEBC,&rdquo; Otuoma said, insisting he won.