Rio Olympian Rayton Okwiri has returned to Nairobi&rsquo;s &ldquo;Pal Pal&rdquo; Gymnasium as he prepares to fight Botswana next month in his second career pro fight.&ldquo;I feel quite energetic and enthusiastic after my pro debut in February and I can&rsquo;t wait to be in Botswana for my second bout,&rdquo; said Okwiri, who is currently training under coach Julius Odhiambo.Okwiri, a Kenya Prisons&rsquo; warder, hopes to follow in the footsteps of his world-beating work-mates like Catherine Ndereba in his bid to conquer the pro boxing world in the near future. The legendary Ndereba was at the ringside to extend moral support to Okwiri when he racked up a third round TKO victory against Tanzanian Sarge Mkalekwa at Crown Plaza Nairobi.Okwiri, who represented the country at Rio Olympics, attributed his success at Crown Plaza to a well-executed game plan. The match referee halted the proceedings midway through the third to save Salehe from further punishment. &ldquo;My Coach (Julius) has informed me that we&rsquo;ll be traveling to Botswana for a fight on May 23. The opponent and details of the match are still scanty but will be communicated in due course once the information is availed to our camp. For now, I just want to focus and train really hard to make sure I make it 2-0 on my pro record with another stoppage,&rdquo; said Okwiri.Okwiri said it was a great feeling starting a pro journey with a TKO victory. &ldquo;I had a game plan to keep my opponent at bay while also tormenting him with some quick body blows. Generally, speed worked against the visitor. I now hope to secure more international contests after Botswana while also fighting some bouts at home,&rdquo; he said. Okwiri played semi-pro boxing on the now defunct AIBA Pro Boxing (APB) ranks and impressed by reaching the finals of the initial schedule. He qualified for the Rio Olympics last season after winning gold in Yaound&eacute;, Cameroon. The boxer, who honed his career skills in Mombasa, played for Kenya Prisons and has been the longstanding Kenyan welterweight champion prior to joining the APB.And having already taken some impressive scalps over the past few years, Okwiri is targeting bigger fights in Europe and America.&ldquo;We have a plan to first play in Africa as we seek more bouts in the west. I have had a series of heavy training lately and now the focus will be on sharpening skills on the jab, power and speed,&rdquo; continued Okwiri, whose record stands at 1-0 (1KO).