Tears welled up in four-year-old Jasmine&rsquo;s eyes yesterday as she tried to come to terms with the death of her mother Janet Kanini Ikua, 39.This was too much to take in for her family and friends.Dressed in a white Cinderella dress, Jasmine&rsquo;s expression became increasingly sombre with time. The puffiness in her eyes and the grief stricken face indicated a child having a hard time with the sudden demise of her mother.At some point, her father George Ikua tried to cheer her up by tossing her up and down. He tried to engage her in warm friendly conservation but it seemed his efforts were not bearing fruit. After a while, she controlled herself and they all proceeded to the church&rsquo;s entrance. Her seven-year-old brother Pedro seemed calm, maybe wrestling with the blow silently in his head.The service brought people from all walks with Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr in attendance. Also present was MC Jessy of Churchill Show, Gospel musician Esther Kambua, musician Wahu, Nation Media Group managing editor Linus Kaikai and Janet&rsquo;s former colleagues from NTV.Even after words of encouragement by the church leaders to celebrate Janet&rsquo;s life, emotions ran high at the Nairobi Baptist Church.The ushers present, who were Janet&rsquo;s classmates at Precious Blood Riruta class of 1995, were easily identifiable. They were dressed in black gowns with yellow corsages pinned on their upper left chest. Yellow flowers with a combination of ivory ones were placed on the coffin with a beautiful mounted photo of Janet next to it.In an emotional eulogy, George Ikua narrated how on their first date he picked her from Kirichwa Road bus stop. He went on to say how they walked up the road with a beautiful sunset and their hands dovetailed.&ldquo;We were nervous during that walk because we knew in our hearts that something had been born,&rdquo; he said.The two met 14 years ago and indeed death, as they vowed before God at the altar, is what has separated them.George appeared strong as he read the tribute, which begins with a song he sang when he proposed to Janet.With his hands in his pocket and his head bowed, an emotional George kept touching his head with the palm of his right hand. He was clearly heartbroken as he sang out a song to his Angel. Overwhelmed with grief, George signed off with the words, &ldquo;Goodbye Love. Go dance with the angels&rdquo;,Janet&rsquo;s daughter Jasmine requested a moment with her mother and she and Janet&rsquo;s family spent a few minutes next to the coffin, before other mourners were allowed to view the body. Jasmine just could not let her mother go.