The world&rsquo;s first nuclear power plant was commissioned in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in 1954, and was located in the city of Obninsk, Kaluga region.The NPP operated accident-free for almost 50 years before being decommissioned. It is currently a nuclear energy museum.At the beginning of 2015, 438 nuclear power reactors were operational worldwide, with an installed capacity of 379GW, IAEA data shows.The US leads in terms of the number of nuclear power units with a total of 99. France is second with 58, Japan 43, while Russia has 10.Nuclear plants have an average life span of 80 years, guaranteeing a stable base load. The base load on a grid is the minimum level of demand on an electrical grid over 24 hours. Base load power sources are power stations, which can consistently generate the electricity power needed to satisfy this minimum demand.KEY TO GROWTHDeveloped and industrious countries have pegged their success on reliable and affordable electricity, mainly nuclear electricity. Nuclear power is considered one of the most reliable and practical sources of electricity. It averages a capacity factor of greater than 90 per cent, meaning it generates near its maximum output regardless of the weather or time of day at a constant.If successfully constructed, it is likely to cut the cost of power in Kenya by almost a half. The average retail tariff in the country is Sh13.68 per kilowatt-hour, Kenya Power and Lighting latest data shows.In India for example, the cost of power averages at $0.06cents (Sh6.18) per Kilowatt hour. Nuclear power is India&rsquo;s fourth-largest source of electricity after thermal, hydroelectric and renewable sources.China plans to build 200 new nuclear power plants. The UAE is building four-1,400MW nuclear reactors, in a Korea Electric Power Corporation-led consortium. Works are above 75 per cent complete, according to the Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation.CONSTRUCTION PERIODIt takes between five to seven years to build a large nuclear unit (not including the time required for planning and licensing). Currently in countries such as South Korea and China, typical construction times range from four to six years, and in European countries, construction may take between six and eight years.In Africa, only South Africa has an active plant. Algeria, Kenya, Malaysia, Morocco and Nigeria are among the countries with plans to venture into the nuclear energy space.Germany has, however, hit the headlines for its decision to accelerate its phasing out of nuclear power by 2022, after the infamous Fukushima Daiichi in Japan, the one that went into triple meltdown after the enormous 2011 earthquake and tsunami.However, Germany&rsquo;s decision is not based on any safety assessment, according to Kneb. Global experts have termed Germany&rsquo;s decision as politically motivated.