President Uhuru Kenyatta has paid tribute to Kenyan sportsmen and women, saying their talent, skill and diligence has brought glory to the country.Speaking in Nairobi when he officially received the Queens Baton for 2018 Commonwealth Games that will be held in Australia, President Kenyatta said the sporting fraternity has made Kenya stand tall in world games and athletics.&ldquo;In rugby, as in tennis, as in football, as in so many other sports, Kenya stands tall. Down the years, your talent, your skill, and your diligence have brought glory to this country. Today, as in years past, we celebrate you,&rdquo; President Kenyatta said.He added: &ldquo;Let me also say what a pleasure it is to receive this relay baton on behalf of Kenya, before it continues its long journey to Australia. That it is passing through Kenya shows the world&rsquo;s confidence in Kenya&rsquo;s sportsmanship, in our talent, and in our promise.&rdquo;As a new cycle of competition begins with the Commonwealth games ahead, President Kenyatta asked the Kenyan athletes to train hard and to maintain the high levels of discipline that their predecessors attained and assured them that his Administration will back them.&ldquo;So long as you work diligently, you can be sure that any obstacles, any hindrances, we can remove, we will remove. That is the promise I give you today,&rdquo; President Kenyatta said.The President said Kenya shares in the aim of the Queen&rsquo;s Baton Relay, which celebrates sporting values such as fairness and perseverance as well as brotherhood across national, ethnic and racial lines. Noting that Kenya has been chosen to host this year&rsquo;s IAAF World Youth Championships, the President said the Government is improving facilities in readiness for the event including the construction of a number of modern stadia right across the Country.&ldquo;I want us all to be perfectly clear on that matter: three major stadia will soon be constructed in Nairobi, Mombasa and Eldoret, in line with the manifesto promise that we made,&rdquo; the President said.Apart from the World Youth Championship that Kenya has been chosen to host, President Kenyatta announced that the country will also next year host the African Nations Championship &mdash;one of the continent&rsquo;s premier football tournaments. He said: &ldquo;My administration has already constituted a Local Organizing Committee to lead the preparations. Arrangements are well under way&mdash;indeed, the inspection team from the Confederation of Africa Football, which visited us recently, reported that we had made good progress.&rdquo;Other speakers included Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario, National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) President Kipchoge Keino and Honourable Life President of Commonwealth Games Federation, Sharad Rao. The Baton continues its journey today in Eldoret and Iten, and will be back in Nairobi at the Karura Forest for its last lap on Saturday before leaving the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania.The relay sparked off in England on March 13 at the Birmingham Palace, the residence of Queen Elizabeth II. Sierra Leone was the first destination of the Baton on March 18. It has since visited Ghana, Rwanda, Uganda, Cameroon and Nigeria before arriving in Nairobi.The Queen&rsquo;s Baton is an equivalent of the Olympic Torch is the longest relay in the world traveling for 230,000km. The Olympic Torch relay goes for 20,000km only.Kenya has participated in the Commonwealth Games since 1954 and graced the show 15 times.