Whereas the Kalenjin largely voted for Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto in 2013, the duo&rsquo;s popularity rating has gone down.Many have attributed this to political differences between Ruto, on the one hand, and the Kanu chairman, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, on the other, a few months after the 2013 election.Moi and Rutto would accuse Ruto of being arrogant, abusive, aloof and insensitive to the plight of their communities. They denied their differences were rooted in a supremacy battle for the control of the Kalenjin community.Ruto&rsquo;s allies always hit back and alleged the two were envious that the son of a peasant had risen to become Deputy President. Ruto packaged himself as a hustler who used to hawk eggs and chickens in the streets of Eldoret.Ruto and Rutto played a leading role in forming URP, which formed an alliance with Uhuru&rsquo;s TNA and went on to win the election.Rutto was among those who dismissed ICC Prosecutor Moreno Ocampo&rsquo;s efforts. He is credited with coining the slogan, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be vague, let&rsquo;s go to The Hague&rdquo;. He thought Ocampo would not make good his threat to &ldquo;teach Kenya a lesson&rdquo;.Rutto has now become a fierce critic of the DP. His Chama Cha Mashinani has joined NASA, and he is now its fifth co-principal, enjoying the same status as the other four.In an interview with Citizen TV, he explained that the Jubilee Party did not want him. He singled out Ruto, saying, &ldquo;We are the leaders on the ground. We know the problems of the people. So when we bring these issues to his attention and he does not want to listen, what do you expect us to do? The right decision is to leave that party&rdquo;.He averred that he was tired of Ruto&rsquo;s insults. &ldquo;He has been referring to my party as Chama Cha Mashimoni, Mashetani, Mashakani and Takataka (garbage).Rutto argued that the DP is not a kingmaker. &ldquo;In our community, we do not have kings. We have performers and leaders who fulfil their promises&rdquo;.On whether he would have supported President Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection, he fell short of confirming this. &ldquo;You hear the language of those fighting me. This tells you they don&rsquo;t want me. Why should I force myself?&rdquo;His sentiments were echoed by a section of the Kalenjin Council of Elders (Myoot), who in a statement gave him the go-ahead to join NASA because &ldquo;JP locked its doors&rdquo;.Rutto cited Moi&rsquo;s experience: &ldquo;After he announced Kanu will support Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection, Ruto&rsquo;s men started fighting him.&rdquo; He referred to majority leader Aden Duale, who claimed Moi&rsquo;s degree is a fake. &ldquo;If he wants to become President, let him first go back to college and get a good certificate.&rdquo;Ruto&rsquo;s allies should rethink their strategy and stop attacking the leadership of the parties that support Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection.Yes, it is believed that their eyes are trained on 2022, when Ruto is poised to succeed Uhuru. One thing, however, is clear, Ruto&rsquo;s success will depend on JP wining the August election.His allies should concentrate their energies on ensuring Uhuru is reelected. That is the only way they will help the two leaders realise their dreams.