Tantalus in Greek mythology was punished by the gods for his misdeeds by being placed in a garden with low-hanging fruit set above a pool of water. Tantalus was then afflicted with great thirst and hunger, and as he tried to reach for the fruits, they moved away, eluding his grasp. And as he reached for the water to drink, it receded and so his hunger and thirst were forever unquenchable. In many ways, our party primaries or nominations have subjected us to the experience of Tantalus. As things stand, we will never be able to satisfy our desire for the right leaders. THE PROBLEM WITH PARTY NOMINATIONSDue to structural problems, interference by party leaders, corrupt candidates, unfair competitive practices, logistical issues, undefined party membership, financial costs and the ugly violence, our party nominations will never give us the right leaders.If you define democracy as the voice of the people, then our party primaries at whatever level can be best described as &lsquo;anti-democratic&rsquo;, meaning something takes the place of democracy or is in conflict with it. Nominations in their current form drown the voice of the people, let the wrong guy in and, because of unhearing (colluding) party honchos, redress is near impossible. It also worsens the gender gap in politics because women are naturally shy of violent conflicts like those witnessed in the party nominations. This in itself is a form of tyranny and is in fact a dictatorship by chaos.CAUSE OF VOTER FATIGUEEven the weather will have its say in our nominations. For instance, if the rains had come, then would have been voters in one area did not turn up and the leader may have come from the area where there was no rain during the exercise. What is probably of greater concern is the fact that the shambolic exercises that we witnessed on both sides of the political divide tends, to foment voter apathy and, worse still, voter fatigue. Voter fatigue will be created by spending too much time conducting voter registration, voter education, verification of voter lists, party registration, party primaries and, finally, conducting the general election. For instance, since we have gone to the polls in April to nominate party candidates, voters in areas where a specific party is dominant many voters won&rsquo;t bother to go and vote in August, assuming their candidate has already won. The presidential candidates will then suffer for this fact that will be blamed on voter fatigue. EXPENSIVE EXCERCISEOf significant concern is the financial cost of the nominations. When the scheduled primaries had to be postponed for various reasons, aspirants had already paid a hefty sum to their agents and campaigners. Many had procured pricy electronic media advertisements &mdash; which were time-bound &mdash; hired and branded vehicles, produced posters, banners and hired billboard spaces that were also time-bound. Upon being given a new date, the costs to these individuals only escalated and there are many aspirants now facing financial ruin. Media organisations had also sent their reporters and crew to the battlegrounds to get the best scoop and give us breaking news. They had to incur additional costs in staff charges, hotel accommodation, equipment and motor vehicle expenses, and security, among others. What is of concern was the loss of national productivity with many people taking time off work to take part in the nominations. DRIVER CORRUPTIONBesides the anticipated and hidden costs of the exercise have always been identified as an important cause or perpetrator of corruption. Stolen public funds will inevitably financemuch of the nominations and campaigns. This places a lot of pressure on the incumbents to take part in corrupt dealings during elections so as to cushion themselves from such expenses and losses. There are short-term and &shy;long-term costs of the exercise, and fear of losing at the nominations is pressuring incumbent MPs to raid the Exchequer to line up their pockets. LAME DUCK GOVERNORSAs predicted, a good number of governors will not be reelected. However, between now and September when the new teams are expected to be in place, the existing governors will be hard at work, digging a grave for their replacers. These lame duck governors will also be presiding over county assemblies with more lame duck MCAs and they could collaborate to frustrate the incoming team by muddying the waters. The outgoing teams may also deplete county coffers with frivolous or controversial payments, knowing that, indeed, the justice system in Kenya will move at a snail&rsquo;s pace, going forward.GEOPOLITICAL MAPPING OF KENYAThe idea of party nominations is to give party members an opportunity to express their voice and choose the candidate to faceoff with other nominees from other parties or independents. The unspoken fact is that the greater the number of aspirants vying for a specific ticket, the higher the chances of the winner of the ticket going on to win the seat. This fact, driven by the dominance of a party in a specific area, is a crucial driver of unfair nomination practices leading to chaotic scenes, violence and even death. It also brings about or encourages corrupt activities such as pre-marking of ballot papers, gerrymandering and blatant intimidation of opposing voters, defacing promotional material and above all negative propaganda. Whichever way the winner gets the ticket, he is sure to win come August.There are areas where winning the popular party ticket is tantamount to winning in the general election, in this case on August 8. This kind of dominance creates a geo-political map of the country that is hued according to the strongholds of political principals. If, however, there is no competition and someone stands in a party that got them a &lsquo;direct&rsquo; nomination, the chances are next to nothing. In the event that there is no plausible competition for a specific seat greatly reduces the chances of the aspirant or incumbent and is, therefore, not a viable option to replace party nominations. THE INDEPENDENT ROUTEWhy vote when the loser can still run Independent? This is the big question. There are many losers in the nomination stage that are going independent because they are convinced the primaries were unfair for them. This is a great threat to party democracy. Indeed, if the margin of loss is less than 10 per cent and if the voter turnout was less than 40 per cent, then the losing incumbent considering the independent route may still have a chance. These statistics are not true for a newcomer, unless they are very well known in the county, and can successfully prove to the electorate they were the better candidates though rigged out in the shambolic nominations.In 2013, nearly 70 losing candidates switched parties and got elected. This is nearly 25 per cent of all the current MPs. Near similar statistics were true about the governor, Senate and MCA seats. The Independent route is generally much more affordable. No party nomination fees, subscriptions, people to please and nobody to look down on or up to you. The &lsquo;independent&rsquo; route, however, has its own pitfalls. Parliament will have a great number of individuals who won&rsquo;t have any party affiliation, making them vulnerable to financial inducements, tribal affiliations and plain manipulation.WHAT VIABLE ALTERNATIVE HAVE WE?There are countries where polling is not a matter of life and death as is the case here. We must urgently change this to give us a system that does not directly refer to the people for nominations. One way is to use party lists drawn up with care to understand what the people want. The parties will chose from among the residents of an area a person who is a natural leader, articulate in speech and competent in debate. Above all he must be one with proven integrity. The parties will be careful to choose the individual because the rivals will easily outrun them if they choose the wrong person. The party will then use its resources to ensure the man is elected. This will greatly fight corruption since individuals do not have to steal to spend in the elections. UNDATED RESIGNATION LETTERThe nominee will also sign an undated resignation letter, which will be sent to the Speaker to declare the seat vacant or to the polls agency or whoever is mandated to set the ball rolling for a replacement. If undated resignation letters are unviable, then it is important to find another legal method to empower parties to recall incumbents unable to toe to the party line, or satisfactorily implement its policies. This will strengthen parties and make them ideology driven, and not as they are &mdash; at the mercy of the principals using them for political ascendancy. Parties will also be on the lookout for corrupt activities that could cause their rivals to win at the polls. This will be a major boost in the war on corruption. People action may also just come in handy. The recall rule in our Constitution should be made easier to ensure that the people can actually recall their MP through party action as well.DOING A GOOD JOBThose incumbents who will have done a good job at the county level, will have first priority at the poll. While indeed there is no way of monitoring &lsquo;a good job&rsquo;, there is a way in which, left open, the definition will cause the holders of office to outdo themselves to solve the problems facing the people. Mechanisms of conducting satisfaction levels will have to be in place, and parties must have the power to admonish errant leaders. They will also ensure they meet the electability criteria and integrity thresholds. Party presentations at all levels will include their vision and what they intend to do for the people, without necessarily capitalising on the weakness of a current leader. This has the power of giving us more responsive leaders, and will ensure that the anti-democratic party nominations are not the bane of our democracy ever again.