Thousands of educated people who go through high school without having developed a love for literature, or for great fiction, think that literature is all about stories and no moreAnd for many of them, particularly students of natural sciences, the stories are so much ado about nothing, &lsquo;tales told by idiots, signifying nothing'.If there is anything of value in the study of literature, it lies in enabling the students to have a functional knowledge of the English language. All one needs to communicate in English is read the set books and the grammar books the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development recommends for English in the KCSE exam.This is a fallacy. Literature is not just about mastering a language, in our case English. Literature of any society is the depository of the knowledge, skills, abilities and habits of thinking and doing things that society has found useful to its survival and well-being.Fictional works&mdash;novels, plays, poems, and fairy tales from different civilisations&mdash;have unrivalled capacity to provide insights into life. It is these insights that are the goal of literature.While those who develop a keen interest in these books invariably master the language, it is the things that these books impart that are of lasting value.The majority of stories in the great books are about solving problems. Sometimes they are solved. In other books, the problems are posed but not solved. Sometimes the answers given create or complicate the initial problems. That is what life is. Life is ultimately about problems, questions, dilemmas&mdash;problems that need solutions, questions that need answers, dilemmas that need to be thought through.We have simple problems, simple questions, dilemmas that need little thought and strength of character to resolve. We also have insoluble problems, ineradicable questions and dilemmas. Literature raises all this because it is what real life is all about&mdash;this is what mankind, as long as he lives on this earth, must face.The beauty of literature does not lie in creating and solving problems&mdash;whether simple or complex. The problems created (simulated is a better word) mirror actual problems the individual faces at any given point, or which mankind has faced all along and no definitive answer has been provided.Whatever the case, and whatever the nature of the problem, questions and dilemmas, readers are invited to ponder over the contradictions and mysteries of life&mdash;as delineated in the fictional work in question.In nearly all great literature, there is something called the inciting incident. This is an incident or event that sets the central conflict&mdash;the main problem&mdash;into motion. The inciting or provocative incident is the thing that happens that changes the status quo, or the thing that makes the story happen. Whatever this is, it changes the normal flow of events, for many people, including the main character.It is the unfolding of events, or incidents, triggered by the inciting incident, that the reader, through the mysterious workings of the intellect or intuition, comes to have an understanding or awareness about something&mdash;clear and immediate understanding of a complex issue or situation. He sees a new earth and a new heaven. It is this new earth and new heaven that defines a frame of reference for the reader's approach to life.It is this intuition and insight&mdash;this new earth new heaven&mdash;that excite lifelong students of literature and not the incidental mastering of a language. This is not to downgrade the attraction of the storyline and the powerful language used to tell the story. All three are enrapturing.Through reading excellent works of fiction, we come to appreciate life, and human beings; their strength and weakness, perhaps more than any other person, except those who study psychology and philosophy.Literature allows people to develop certain insights and visions. The insights and visions, with the right critical appreciation skills, are as persuasive as the insights and visions we draw from inductive or deductive logic in other disciplines.Crucially, the experience of reading literary fiction improves the ability to detect and understand other people's emotions. The characters who illustrate incidents, or the incidents that are illustrated by the characters, enable us to see the motivations, and the traits at work. We are able to understand the nexus always between the action, and the trait or the motivation. This knowledge and skills help many people to manage complex relationships, in teams or the workplace.One does not have to formally study literature in college to gain the insights and skills that is unique to literature. We have established doctors, engineers, lawyers and other professionals who are ardent readers of quality works of art.All that is needed for one to appreciate literature is mastery of literacy skills at an early stage of education. A strong grounding in reading and writing skills in standard one and two is sufficient to enable children to read any age-appropriate book&mdash;in content and the structure of the language.It is the building blocks of these books&mdash;small and silly they might seem at that early age&mdash;that build the intellectual power to read, understand and appreciate the great works of art that define great civilisations.It is pointless to pretend to have learnt a language yet not access all the vast intellectual wealth which all the wisest individuals and nations of the earth have created and preserved in that language, in our case, English. We have some of the most profound speculations on science, philosophy, morals, government, law and economics originally written in English and translated into English&mdash;books that educated people, policy and opinion makers ought to have a bowing acquaintance with.The idea is not for academic purposes but for use in making personal decisions and decisions on behalf of society&mdash;on opinion and policy formulation and, critically, on the legislative actions society invites educated people to contribute to.Literature, fictional works, should, in our scheme of things, be seen as the gateway to the abilities, capacities and skills mankind has developed for his/her safety and well-being. Literature is not just stories; but knowledge, power and ability.