And it's only just begun.Violence, acrimony, alleged ballot stuffing and controversy dogged the first lap of ODM nominations in Busia, Bungoma and Machakos counties. This raises concerns it could get worse.Nominations will go on tomorrow as scheduled in Turkana, Kakamega, Samburu and Narok counties.Raila Odinga's ODM yesterday was forced to nullify the nomination results for Busia boss, a few hours after Governor Sospeter Ojaamong was declared the winner. Fresh nominations are scheduled on April 25.Ojaamong's rival, Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, and his supporters repudiated the results, alleging ballot stuffing in the governor's two constituency strongholds.Up to the early hours of yesterday, Otuoma had taken the lead but around 9am, Ojaamong overtook Otuoma, sparking outrage from the former minister and his supporters.County Election Board chairman Vitalis Juma, while declaring results at the Agricultural Training Centre in Busia Town, declared Ojaamong the winner with 92,358 votes to Otuoma's 63,752. The results were denounced by Otuoma who called them doctored."I have no Plan B. My only plan is to prepare for the August 8, General Election. I am 100 per cent sure I will carry the ODM flag," he told reporters. Otuoma's prayers were answered by the NEB, which nullified the results and called for fresh nominations. NEB chairperson Judith Pareno said the board noticed major irregularities in the results. "The board has been scrutinising them with the aim of making the final announcement as required by the party constitution," Pareno said. She then said a repeat exercise would be held on April 25. Results for other seats were unchanged. Pareno said nominations will go on tomorrow as scheduled. On Tuesday next week nominations will be in Kisii, Nyamira, Taita Taveta, Kajiado and Trans Nzoia. Ojaamong dismissed nullification of his short-lived victory, adding he had already been handed the certificate. Fresh nominations will divide the party even further, he said.Earlier, chaos had erupted at the tallying centre after AP officers stormed the centre when Otuoma&rsquo;s supporters became rowdy over delay in announcing results. After the announcement, the Funyula MP and supporters took to the streets of Busia, protesting what they called a "flawed nomination process'. Otuoma said Teso South has 45,000 registered voters. But Ojaamong got 44,000, excluding the 3,000 he got to confirm that more than 100 per cent of voters cast their ballots. He said Teso North with a population of 40,000 recorded over 80 per cent turnout, with 33,000 people turning up to vote. Ojaamong rubbished the claims. He said Teso South has about 70,000 registered voters and Teso North has over 67,000. Many people from the Teso community came out in large numbers to vote and safeguard the only seat occupied by one of their own, the governor said. The Busia governor's race has lifted the lid on deep political differences between Ojaamong's Teso community and the dominant Luhya community. The history between the Teso and Luhyas dates from their migration from Egypt. The Kenyan Teso people are an extension of their Ugandan counterparts. They were separated by the partition of East Africa during the historic Scramble for Africa. The same applies to the Maasai of Kenya and Tanzania and the Oromo of Kenya and Ethiopia. They are among the Plain Nilotic groups closely related to the Turkana, Karamojong, Toposa and the Maasai groups of the Maasai and Samburu.The community claims it has been marginalised by the Luhya. In this situation, the community demanded its own Anglican Church of Kenya, Katakwa Diocese, which was granted. President Daniel Moi acceded to pressure from the community and granted them a district in 1996.The Teso community numbering about 400,000 people has been embroiled in controversy following threats to move Changara location to Bungoma. This scenario continues to heighten tension betweenthe two communities.The Teso recently complained of machinations by the Luhya to deny them the governor's seat, after claiming six other positions including senator, deputy governor, woman representative, speaker and leader of the majority.Disarray in MachakosOn Thursday ODM nominations in Machakos county, Muthwani ward, ended in disarray without any tallying done.But the returning officer there declared Bob Nyambaka the winner, despite protests from his rival Richard Masese who claimed the ballot boxes had been stuffed .In the ODM primaries for Kanduyi constituency, Bungoma, county assembly Speaker John Makali clinched the ticket. He garnered 6,473 votes to defeat his closest rival Edwin Sifuna who got 3,111 votes.After sensing defeat, Sifuna claimed the returning officers conspired with Makali to award him the ticket.At one point, a petrol bomb was hurled near the tallying centre at Bungoma DEB Primary School, where the Kanduyi constituency results were being released.In Webuye East constituency, Peter Khakina emerged the winner with 4,819 votes, defeating his closest rival, Kingsley Mutali, who received 225 votes.Ongoro quits for ANCThis came even as staunch Raila supporter Elizabeth Ongoro quit ODM for Musalia Mudavadi's ANC.She was received by ANC secretary general Geoffrey Osotsi at the ANC headquarters where she received a life membership certificate.The nominated Ruaraka senator blamed her exit from ODM on underhand dealings by "political mercenaries who think they can determine political destinies of other people without thinking whether they are building or destroying the party". She cited unfairness and mistreatment.Ongoro was told to seek election in another constituency, not Ruaraka. She called this a plan to eliminate competition for Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang' and allow him an easy win."It is a very sad scenario, it always has grave negative effects on the party and on our presidential candidate," she said.Ongoro said. She said time for coercing and forcing party supporters to vote for people they didn't choose is long gone."Under the constitution, I have rights to seek election. Why am I being told to contest elsewhere just nine days to nominations? It is unfortunate that women have been taken for granted for long."The legislator said she notified ODM and the Interdependent Electoral and Boundaries Commission of her defection in due time, and had complied with all the legal requirements to leave Raila's party."Both letters were received in good time to beat all deadlines and all my details arrived at IEBC in time. I am now a candidate for Amani in NASAShe said Kajwang worked with other "mercenaries and insiders" to elbow her out, fearing for competition.ANC has no other aspirant for the seat and Ongoro could get a direct nomination but she said she is ready for the nominations because "I don't like getting it easy."Osotsi said Ongoro is the only candidate for the Ruaraka seat."Ongoro has fulfilled all the membership requirements in timely manner to become the ANC sole candidate for the Ruaraka parliamentary seat," he said. He said she is expected to deliver the seat in the morning of August 8.