The new development where President Uhuru Kenyatta has accepted working with small parties that support him will change the political landscape forever.He had to accept it since most counties have two or more strong aspirants running for the same seats.Kiambu and Murang&rsquo;a are a perfect case. I talked to a party leader whose party is not presenting a presidential candidate but are supporting Jubilee as for them to get enough MPs to control the House as failure to do so means it is going to be difficult to hold the majority of the votes in the bicameral Parliament. Meru Governor Peter Munya has declared his interest in the 2022 Presidential election and so has Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto.We also have others who will declare after their one or two terms.These governors belong to different parties, despite supporting JP's flagbearer.We also know Uhuru has high chances of reelection.After 2017, things will change. All governors will have served a full term and started a second one and want to grow, or remain, politically relevant. They will also be joined by hundreds of elected members who ran on the tickets of the smaller parties for the national and county assemblies.Other elected officials in Jubilee will also form new parties they can control and call the shots. If the current governors are reelected, it means come 2022 the race for State House will really heat up. Some of them come from bigger parties that are popular within different counties. And that means Ruto is going to do much more extra than he has to offer to put Jubilee together and make it stronger.The governors already have a strong grassroots base where they come from. It might be a clan, a tribe or region, but it remains a vote bloc to influence any outcome of an election.I suspect they will have to form alliances which can collaborate, work on a system to pick a candidate and the deputy. Meaning after August 8 Ruto will face even stiffer competition from the aspirants vying for smaller posts in this election. Jubilee needs to get a firm grip on its strongholds for them to have a chance to present a strong presidential candidate come 2022.