Governor aspirants from Migori and Homa Bay counties yesterday met with the committee constituted to investigate the chaotic primaries suspended by the National Elections Board.The committee met at Ufanisi Hotel in Kisii town. The results of the Monday primaries were marred by controversy and rigging claims, with two camps declared winners in Migori. On Tuesday evening, ODM nullified the results in a press statement signed by secretary general Agnes Zani.Zani said the Monday process in the two counties were largely peaceful, orderly and credible. &ldquo;However, the committee noted with concern the manner in which results were handled after voting,&rdquo; she said.The ODM board also appointed a team led by the national deputy treasurer Timothy Bosire, National Assembly Minority whip Thomas Mwadeghu and NEB commissioner Dominic Motindi to look into what transpired.In Homa Bay, Governor Cyprian Awiti was declared the winner. In Migori, Governor Okoth Obado and Ochillo Ayacko were declared winners by two returning officers separately.Obado was declared winner by Samuel Olala, who declared himself a returning officer after county elections board chairman Tom Otike stormed out of the Migori TTC tallying centre. Otike later declared Ayacko the winner.Migori witnessed chaotic scenes on Tuesday as confusion emerged about the whole process.In the Senate race, the two returning officers also declared journalists Ben Oluoch Okello and former speaker Gordon Ogola.In Homa Bay, the governor ticket was closely contested. Hopeful Oyugi Magwanga, the Kasipul MP, dismissed the results, saying he was rigged out. His supporters protested against Awiti&rsquo;s declared win.&ldquo;We lodged complaints with the County Elections Board, but it failed to listen to us. We demand Magwanga be given the ticket,&rdquo; resident Charles Juma said. Aspirants Paul Odola and Anne Omodho Anyanga said the whole process was marred by violence and confusion.&ldquo;In Nyatike, my stronghold, a contingent of GSU officers came and carted off the ballot boxes. How could the two be announced winners when returning officers from Uriri, Suna West and Awendo constituencies were arrested with ballot papers?&rdquo; Anyanga told the Star on the phone yesterday.Odola said voting was peaceful and problems emerged at the tallying centre when GSU officers cordoned it off.&ldquo;The tallying process was a sham. The results should be thrown out. Even MP and MCA aspirants contested the results,&rdquo; he said.