At least 150,000 Kenyan children will receive the world&rsquo;s first-ever malaria vaccine next year, latest reports show. The Kenyan children will be part of the about 360,000 children vaccinated in Kenya, Malawi and Ghana between 2018 and 2020 in a pilot programme backed by the World Health Organisation. The vaccine passed previous scientific testing &mdash; including a phase three clinical trial between 2009 and 2014 &mdash; and was approved for the pilot programme in 2015. The Phase 3 trial in Kenya involved more than 4,000 children at Kombewa, Siaya and Kilifi sites. WHO said the three countries where the pilot testing will take place were preferred based on high coverage of long-lasting insecticidal nets; well-functioning malaria and immunisation programmes, and participation in the Phase 3 RTS,S malaria vaccine trial. The injectable vaccine, RTS,S, was developed to protect young children from the most deadly form of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. It will be administered via intramuscular injection and delivered through the routine national immunization programmes. According to WHO Regional Director for Africa DR Matshidiso Moeti, each of the three countries will decide on the districts and regions to be included in the pilots. High malaria burden areas she said will be prioritized, as this is where the benefit of the vaccine is predicted to be highest. &ldquo;The prospect of a malaria vaccine is great news. Information garnered from the pilot will help to inform later decisions about potential wider use of the vaccine,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Combined with existing malaria interventions, such a vaccine would have the potential to save tens of thousands of lives in Africa,&rdquo; she added. The vaccine, also known as Mosquirix, was developed through a partnership between GlaxoSmithKline and the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI), with support from the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation and from a network of African research centres. The pilot programme intends to test it on children aged five to 17 months. It will be assessed in the pilot programme as a complementary malaria control tool that could potentially be added to the core package of WHO-recommended measures for malaria prevention. The three-year pilot phase will also investigate safety issues associated with the RTS,S vaccine, such as the potential to develop meningitis. The vaccine is however ineffective against malaria unless children receive four doses spread out over 18 months. Even then, it only offers modest protection. Trials involving more than 15,000 children, between 2009 and 2014, in seven African countries, including Kenya, established that a series of four shots reduced the number of malaria cases by 36 per cent in young children and by 26 per cent in infants. Backers of the vaccine said even its modest effect could be significant because malaria kills thousands of children every year. Malaria is a major public health threat in Kenya, causing an estimated 6.5 million infections and 12,000 deaths. In 2015, Kenya was estimated to have 3 per cent of all malaria cases in the world. The highest prevalence of the disease occurs in the western and coastal regions, where prevalence is 27 per cent and 8 per cent, respectively. In these areas, the peak transmission months of May and June have seen an increasing rate of malaria positivity&mdash;lab-confirmation of suspected cases&mdash;in children under the age of five. Confirmed cases increased from 42 per cent in 2012 to 52 per cent in 2015. However, the country&rsquo;s investments in malaria prevention and control have helped lower the overall prevalence of the disease over the past five years, from 11 per cent in 2010 to 8 per cent in 2015. In Kenya, more than half of all children under the age of 5 now sleep under bed nets. A vaccine would be a valuable addition to the measures currently taken to control malaria. &ldquo;The new vaccine is a potentially valuable new tool in the fight against malaria. With the pilots funded, we are eager to see how this vaccine works in combination with insecticide-treated nets and indoor spraying,&rdquo; says Mark Dybul, executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria . The Global Fund has so far approved Sh1.5 billion (US$ 15 million) for the malaria vaccine pilots, assuring full funding for the first phase of the programme. Earlier this year, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and Unitaid announced commitments of up to US$ 27.5 million and US$ 9.6 million (a total of Sh991 million) respectively, for the first 4 years of the vaccine programme. Dr Moeti said elimination is ultimately the long-term goal for all malaria-endemic countries. But without large increases in funding, innovative new tools, and major improvements in national health systems, it is unlikely that the 13 countries with the highest number of malaria cases &ndash; Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cote d&rsquo;Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda and United Republic of Tanzania &ndash; will achieve elimination during the time-frame established by the Global Technical Strategy for Malaria 2016-2030 (GTS). Health CS Cleopus Mailu welcomed the move but indicated there are gaps that need to be addressed for achievement of Malaria free in Kenya and other countries. Children under five, he said are particularly susceptible to malaria illness, infection and death. In 2015, malaria killed an estimated 303,000 under-fives globally, including 292,000 in the African Region. Between 2010 and 2015, the malaria mortality rate among children under 5 fell by an estimated 35 per cent. Nevertheless, malaria remains a major killer of under-fives, claiming the life of 1 child every two minutes. In addition, National Malaria Control Programme is currently implementing a school health program in eight counties where teachers are trained so that they can pass key messages on malaria to pupils, who in turn are expected to act as change agents at household levels. &ldquo;We have developed a teachers and pupils guide promoting malaria prevention and control by school children in Kenya, and is working on expanding coverage to other counties,&rdquo; it said. NMCP will also provide technical support to counties to undertake monitoring and supervision of malaria prevention and control activities at household level. They will also review and update the training curriculum for community health volunteers and household data collection tools. Mailu said his ministry will this year distribute over 15 million Mosquito nets countrywide as part of the war against malaria. So far 16 million Long Lasting Insecticidal Nets have been distributed in 36 counties. Currently 63 per cent of households in Kenya own at least one LLIN which is an improvement from 44 per cent in 2010. &ldquo;To sustain and enhance coverage, my Ministry will continue routine distribution of LLIN&rsquo;s through health clinics and distribute another 15.6 planned for the 2020 mass campaign,&rdquo; said Mailu. As the the country marked World Malaria Day in Narok county on Tuesday, Mailu said 87 per cent of the public health facilities now have the capacity to diagnose malaria. He added that through capacity building, mentorship and supervision 97 per cent of all confirmed malaria cases received the recommended medicine in the public health facilities. Africa bears the greatest burden of malaria worldwide. Global efforts in the last 15 years have led to a 62 percent reduction in malaria deaths between 2000 and 2015, yet approximately 429,000 people died of the disease in 2015, the majority of them young children in Africa.