THAT ODM never seems to learn from its mistakes is no secret. The confusion at the party headquarters is shocking. The secretariat looks rudderless and everyone seems to do what he or she wants and officials are even doing business with the party, clear conflict of interest. What is most appalling is that the party has not replied to simple requests by the US embassy and the UK high commission for accreditation to observe its party primaries. The question many are asking is: Why is the Orange party so hesitant to allow observers at their nominations exercise, if it truly plans to hold free and fair primaries? WE are told that Migori Governor Okoth Obado phoned Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and called him &ldquo;al Shabaab&rdquo;. The governor had just discovered that Mohamed had invited his opponent Ochilo Ayacko (pictured) for the function that later turned chaotic, with bullets being fired at the BIP podium. MOMBASA Senator Hassan Omar seems to be smiling and praying that embattled Governor Ali Joho suffers a political body blow from court cases on his questionable academic papers. Omar, a newbie in politics, keen on unseating Joho, aka the Sultan of Mombasa, has broken his silence and publicly revealed his true colors. Omar&rsquo;s uncalled-for-remarks describing Joho as a &ldquo;dead horse&rdquo; in the face of the ongoing probe into the form four certificate forgery claims shocked some NASA supporters. Word has it that the senator&rsquo;s sentiments and announcement that NASA will punish Joho for forgery if it gets into power after the August polls made the Alliance&rsquo;s diehard supporters do a double-take. ARE Principal Secretaries to blame for impeding President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee administration from delivering its manifesto? A number of JP lawmakers were heard blaming the PSs, the accounting officers in the ministries, for all ills, including mega corruption, on the Jubilee government&rsquo;s first-term watch. The MPs, mostly from Mt Kenya, gave Uhuru a thumbs up for his recent transfer of some PSs to other ministries. However, they were of the opinion he ought to have fired the ones who have embarrassed his administration in procurement and wrangling with their Cabinet Secretaries. SOME members of the ODM elections board are laughing all the way to the bank after receiving Sh15 million from three governors at a five-star hotel near the Kilimani area, Nairobi, to manipulate the ODM primaries. Party members are worried about their leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s loud silence over the matter as business as usual creeps back into the Orange party ahead of the party primaries that kick off tomorrow.