Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti has joined Wiper Party to run for Machakos governor against incumbent Alfred Mutua.Ndeti has teamed up with outgoing East Africa Legislative Assembly member Peter Mathuki in the race for the highly contested seat.The former Youth Affairs assistant minister joined Wiper, which is led by NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka, after weeks of negotiations. She has returned to the party she quit in 2013 after losing to Mutua, who was elected on a Wiper ticket but quit to form Maendeleo Chap Chap."This is a journey we started a long time ago to bring Ukambani together. We - [CCU], Muungano and other parties - have left our houses to join Wiper because we come from the same region," she said."It is good for us to unite and work together because unity is strength. I am telling the whole country...you will never see Ukambani divided. We, the Akamba, will be united and speak in unity because we have about 2.5 million votes in Kenya and cannot be underrated."Ndeti said Kambas have worked with other Kenyans. She said they know they cannot make it on their own but want space. The politician will not fold her Chama Cha Uzalendo party.The firebrand politician rekindled the friction caused by Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze who issued a seven-day ultimatum for NASA to name Kalonzo its presidential flag bearer.Ndeti said the community stands with Nyenze, who said Kalonzo will vie on his own if not allowed to fly the Opposition's flag."I always say my option one Kalonzo, two, three, four, five to infinity....Kalonzo," she said.More on this: [VIDEO] Wiper threatens to leave NASA if Kalonzo is not selectedAlso see: Nyenze has nothing to rectract, Kalonzo says over raging NASA ticket debateBut Kalonzo, who is Wiper boss, said Ndeti will not get the party's direct nomination. She said the aspirant will square it out with rivals should they not reach an agreement to shelve their ambitions in her favour.Mathuki dropped his bid and agreed to be Ndeti's running mate but Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala said the duo must beat him at the nominations first."Our agreement is that Wavinya has been allowed by her party to join Wiper as a member to vie for governor. The two have told me they agreed to share the government 50-50 upon clinching office," Kalonzo said."We as Wiper party have decided that if we get power, we will ensure gender parity, leave alone the two thirds gender rule. And Machakos people...you are most likely to be the first to elect a woman as governor."Kiala said Ndeti "unconditionally" welcomed Ndeti to the party saying her move was long overdue. "I am not party to negotiations that led to the deal between her and her running mate. Ndeti is welcome to procedurally seek the Wiper ticket for the political seat of her choice," he said in statement."I am ready for her to join me in facing Machakos citizens who will democratically make the decision on who their Wiper candidate, and ultimately their governor, will be after August 8."