Kenya Prisons women&rsquo;s volleyball team came from a set down to sink local nemesis Kenya Pipeline 3-2 (13-25, 28-26, 25-19, 23-25,15-13) in the quarter-final match of the ongoing Africa women&rsquo;s Club Championship in Monastir, Tunisia yesterday.The side, coached by David Lung&rsquo;aho, will play the winner between hosts CFC and Sfaxien in semis. The two were expected to play last night in the another quarter-final match. Pipeline arrived in quarters in great shape after finish top of Group &lsquo;C&rsquo; with nine points after unbeaten run. And as expected, they kicked off the show on a flying note, sealing the first set with ease. It was an easy flow for Pipeline girls as they led 11-6 and 17-9 at the first and second Technical Time Out respectively.Poor back court defence was Prisons main undoing and not even pep talk from coach Lung&rsquo;aho could help the situation as they trailed Pipeline 11-20 and 12-20 towards the end of the first set. Sensational setter Jane Wacu tried hard to save the situation but it was too little, too late as the Pipeline went on to seal the set 25-13.In the second set, Prisons, who had finished second in their pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; with nine points behind champions Al Ahly of Egypt, squeezed an early 8-7 lead with experienced middle blocker Brackcidise Agala, who was switched from her usual middle position to left attacker, playing a key role. The five-time Africa champions extended the lead 12-10 and 18-16 at the 1st and 2nd TTO respectively.Hard hitting Noel Murambi and setter Janet Wanja combined well up front to bag two points to force a tie at 20-20 and 22-22 but Prisons again opened a two-point lead as they went on to snatch the set 28-26 to level the sets 1-1. In the third set, Prisons once again opted to fight from front with Evelyne Makuto and Lydia Maiyo being the main tormentors as Prisons led 8-3 and 14-4 halfway through the match.Good services from Wacu helped her side to open a nine-point lead as Pipeline stalled to trail 10-20. Prisons poor back court defence saw Pipeline stage a major comeback hence closing the gap 19-23. However Prisons held their nerve to win the set 25-19 for a 2-1 set lead. Fourth set was equally competitive but it was pipeline who showed the urge to win with Monica Biama, Triza Atuka and Wanja combining well up-front en-route bagging the set 25-23 as both teams tied 2-2 to set up a decider.In the fifth set, Pipeline had an upper hand as they led 8-7 before extending the lead to 11-7. However, Agala&rsquo;s experience returned to haunt Pipeline as she subjected them to pianful spikes, tying the set at 13-13. A time-out at this point by Pipeline coach didn&rsquo;t help much as the wardresses sealed the match with a 15-13 set win.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m very happy this afternoon (yesterday) because we have won a tough match against Pipeline. We displayed real Kenyan volleyball although I think the match could have gone either way. We were better off in the fifth set although they (Pipeline) led all the way in the set, only for us to recover at the last minute,&rdquo; said Lunga&rsquo;hoHe congratulated his players for the effort they put to win the match. &ldquo;I want to especially appreciate Agala who was our toast of the match as well as Wacu, who played a key role. We face tough opposition in the semis but I think this match against Pipeline was our biggest moment. Now that we are through, sky is the limit and we look forward to win the title.&rdquo;