Kenya&rsquo;s overall public debt increased by Sh608 billion in 12 months through December 2016, fresh data by the Central Bank of Kenya shows, underlining increased debt appetite for infrastructure development. The CBK's quarterly Economic Review report for the second quarter of 2016-17 financial year, published last Friday, indicate the value of debt rose to Sh3.763 trillion from Sh3.155 trillion a year earlier. This means that debt has doubled during Jubilee administration's first term, having jumped by 98.94 per cent compared to Sh1.89 trillion the regime inherited in June 2013.The CBK data indicate that about 54.6 per cent of Kenya's national wealth, technically referred to as gross domestic product, was in debt compared to 45.8 per cent in the second quarter of 2015-16 fiscal year. Funds borrowed domestically increased 25.39 per cent year-on-year to Sh1.931 trillion in December 2016 from Sh1.540 trillion, while external debt grew by 13.45 per cent to Sh1.83 trillion from Sh1.62 trillion a year earlier. &ldquo;The December 2016 Debt sustainability update showed that Kenya faces a low risk of external debt distress. All the liquidity and solvency debt burden indicators were below the Country Policy and Institutional Assessment based thresholds,&rdquo; CBK states, adding: &ldquo;There is a temporary breach of debt service to exports ratio under standardised stress tests.&rdquo; Analysts at financial advisory firm StratLink foresee a rise in the government&rsquo;s appetite for debt in the coming months, characterised by potential challenges in revenue mobilisation due to a slowdown in business activities. &ldquo;Exploration of crowd funding to tap into relatively cheap credit from the general public through the M-Akiba platform promises to be one of the avenues through which the government meets shortfalls,&rdquo; StratLink says in its Kenya Market Update published yesterday. The report shows there is a general slowdown in business which is characteristic of the election year and weak recovery of commodity prices. This may hurt mobilisation of government&rsquo;s revenue target of Sh1.7 trillion. To ease pressure on external borrowing and mobilise funds for infrastructure development, the National Treasury plans to issue a Sh5 billion bond through the mobile-based platform, M-Akiba, in June after the Sh150 million pilot sale that was launched on March 23.However, the CBK data shows that should the primary deficit remain at the current levels, public debt will take an upward trajectory to way above the EAC convergence criterion.