Kenya Prisons&rsquo; women&rsquo;s volleyball team have an uphill task as they seek to confirm their place in the quarter-finals of the ongoing women&rsquo;s African club Championship in Monastir, Tunisia.For the team to sail through, they were supposed to win their match against Bejaia last night and seal the final preliminary round match against University of Zimbabwe tomorrow. The side, coached by David Lung&rsquo;aho, lost their opening Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; clash against record holders and champions Al Ahly on Friday night before making amends to wallop hosts Marsa 3-0 (25-12,25-15,26-24) on Saturday.However, Prisons coach David Lung&rsquo;aho remains confident that they will reach the quarters.He said: &ldquo;We started the Africa Club Championship on the wrong footing but I am glad we recovered to win our second match and we are very much on course. Unlike our clash against Al Ahly where they controlled most of the proceedings hence our back court defence was poor, we were more calm in the tie against Marsa. We covered up well in reception and got positive results. Going forward, we have to win our remaining ties to seal our spot in the quarter-finals.&rdquo;Prisons rest today before they take on University of Zimbabwe on Tuesday in their last group match.In the first set, Prisons&rsquo; attack was in a class of their own as they bombarded their opponents with powerful spikes. Unlike their opponents, the Kenyan girls had prolific of fast and persuasive attacking options, and were an endless danger throughout the first set. It took them an easy ride to complete the first set with a striking 25-12 points.Marsa got the second set underway but faded out along the way allowing the Kenyans, who were fighting to avoid second defeat, to seal their second set 25-15 for a 2-0 lead. Marsa returned for the third set with transformed persistence and Prisons almost fell in the set but their consistence and resilience saw them continue to dominate the opponents. However, they encountered difficulty from the Tunisians, who had their best set scoring 24 points.The other Kenya representatives, Kenya Pipeline rest today and will take on unpredictable Bafia of Cameroon tomorrow in the formality match having qualified for the quarter-finalsafgter two consecutive wins. Pipeline beat Army Patriotic Rwanda 3-0 (26-24, 25-14,25-12) in the opening match and went on to stop Sonatrach of Algeria with a simiular set margin of 26-24,25-23,25-16. With the two wins, the side coached by Japheth Munala, top Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; unbeaten with six points.