The only woman parliamentary aspirant in Tetu, Nyeri, Ann Kanyi was on Friday injured together with her driver.Hooded goons attacked her during her campaign trail at around 5pm.Kanyi was criss-crossing the constituency when the gang&rsquo;s vehicle blocked her way. They later escaped to Mbaaini village.She said the four men smashed her car windows, dragged her out and started assaulting her.The Jubilee Party aspirant was treated at Mathari Mission Hospital.Kanyi sustained back and leg injuries and a knee dislocation.The driver was injured on both legs during the attack at Mbaaini.The gang used a grey vehicle whose registration number plate was concealed.&ldquo;When the car blocked me, four masked armed men jumped out and came running. Within three minutes I had been terrorised enough,&rdquo; Kanyi said.&ldquo;It was like a movie. They dragged us out and forced us to lie down after smashing the back window with a metal bar.&rdquo;The assailants did not steal anything. They threatened to shoot her, demanding that she drops out of the race.She has recorded the matter at Gachatha police post. No arrests have been made.This comes barely a week after her meeting was disrupted at Gititu by her rivals&rsquo; supporters.The incident comes just seven days after local parliamentary aspirants signed peace agreements in a meeting which was snubbed by aspirant Gichuki Mwangi and incumbent Ndung&rsquo;u Gethenji. Kanyi said she has been harassed and intimidated by one male Jubilee Party front-runner.She feels insecure and has been the only woman in the crowded race of 10 aspirants.Tetu deputy county commissioner Herman Shambi was the first to arrive at the scene. He banned all night meetings and promised to accord her the necessary security. Shambi urged the aspirant to share her meeting schedule for provision of security officers in advance.Meanwhile, in February, Eunice Wambui, the actress known as Nyasuguta for her role in Vitimbi, started campaigning for the post of Embakasi South MP. Nyasuguta was attacked by four goons while headed to a women&rsquo;s group meeting in Mukuru Kwa Reuben.&ldquo;Three men attacked me as one of them kept watch. They punched my face and hit me with a wooden rod on my neck and back,&rdquo; she said.