There was tension at the Kibra constituency on Sunday after MP aspirant Eliud Owalo found his name missing in ODM's voter register.Owalo was told his name was not on the list shortly after he arrived to cast his vote at the Kibera Primary School polling centre at 10am.But Owalo said he was able to deal with the situation swiftly."I have sorted the issue out with the returning officers and I have cast my vote some minutes ago," Owalo told journalists at the premises.Owalo further claimed that there were some ballot boxes that were taken to Makadara constituency yet they were meant for Kibra."I have talked to the returning officer and called the NEB chair Judith Pareno on the issue. She has said they are addressing it," he said.But he noted that the voters had not yet received the papers since he made the call at around 9am."The voters have not seen ballot papers up to now ... the feeling on the ground is that it could be a system failure," he said."Pareno has assured me that she is addressing the issue. So let's wait," he added. Owalo will be fighting to unseat incumbent Ken Okoth in the nominations that kicked off on Sunday.He exuded confidence that he will win the seat and face it off with his rivals in August polls."I am confident of winning the seat and you can take it to the bank and earn interest. There is very big divide between me and my competitor and I am a change agent," Owalo said.Ruth Odinga dropped her bid for the seat, citing health concerns. ODM primaries kicked off in parts of Nairobi with voters complaining of missing names in the registers while others said the agents were slow."Nimekuja hapa asubuhi sana na sijapiga kura. Sijaweka hata kitu kwa tumbo (I came here very early in the morning and I am yet to vote. I haven't even had breakfast)," a Kibra resident said.Read: ODM primaries kicks off in Nairobi, names missing in registersOn Saturday, Pareno said all measures have been put in place to ensure the primaries are a success.Pareno said the primaries would be conducted only in centres earmarked by IEBC as polling stations."We have 320 centre gazetted by IEBC as polling stations. This is where we expect voters to cast their votes and not anywhere else," she said.She said results for MCAs and MPs will be announced by constituency returning officers while overall results for senator and woman rep announced at Nyayo national stadium by the county returning officer.More on this: ODM ready for Nairobi nominationsLast week, ODM disbanded the Nairobi polls following the destruction of the ballot papers.The party had said deputy leader Hassan Joho would preside over the polls.