The 2010 Constitution is our most progressive since Independence in addressing gender parity. Chapter 4, The Bill of Rights, and Part 2, Right and Fundamental Freedoms under Article 27 (3), states, &ldquo;Women and men have the right to equal treatment, including the right to equal opportunities in political, economic, cultural and social spheres&rdquo;.To operationalisation Article 27 (3), the Constitution further states under Article 27 (6), &ldquo;To give full effect to the realisation of the rights guaranteed under this Article, the State shall take legislative and other measures, including affirmative action programs and policies designed to redress any disadvantage suffered by individuals or groups because of past discrimination&rdquo;. The Constitution under Article 27 (8) goes further to state that, &ldquo;In addition to the measures contemplated in clause (6), the state shall take legislative and other measures to implement the principle that not more than two-thirds of the members of elective or appointive bodies shall be of the same gender.Simply put, the 2010 Constitution enshrined gender equality and directed the state to not only adopt affirmative action programmess and policies and further directed that &ldquo;no more than two-thirds of the members of an elective or appointive body shall be of the same gender&rdquo;. In order to adequately enforce the 2010 Constitution, 47 woman rep seats were created. However, this was not enough to guarantee gender parity and, hence extra provisions of Article 27 (6), (7) and (8). The 2010 Constitution went further under Chapter 8 &ndash; The Legislature, Part 2 &ndash; Composition and Membership of Parliament and under Article 100 - Promotion of representation of marginalised groups - to state, &ldquo;Parliament shall enact legislation to promote the representation in Parliament of&mdash; (a) Women; (b) Persons with disability; (c) Youth; (d) Ethnic and other minorities; and (e) Marginalised communities.In the Fifth Schedule, legislation to be enacted by Parliament, the time frame given to operationalise the gender equality laws was five years, expiring on August 27, 2015. Following the failure by Parliament to enact some laws as directed by the Fifth Schedule, a one-year extension was sought and granted. However, on April 28, 2016 and again on May 5, 2016, the National Assembly rejected the Constitution Amendment Bill (No 4) of 2015.Barely two-and-a-half years after the promulgation of the new Constitution, Kenya held a general election to give full effect to the provisions of the new law. According to the Independent, Electoral and Boundaries Commission, out of 1,908 aspirants for National Assembly seats, only 197 were women. And out of the 197 women, only 16 made it to Parliament to join the 47 woman representatives. At the county representative level, 623 women vied but only 85 were elected. In contrast, 1,365 men were elected out of 9,287 male contestants. No woman was elected as a senator or governor. Only one woman contested for the presidency out of seven men and she garnered less than three per cent of the vote. As it stands, both the National and the county assemblies are still below the one-third gender representation threshold, with less than 20 per cent women representation.The Fifth Schedule in the Constitution provided a time frame of five years within which the legislation on the representation of marginalised groups was to be passed. The five-year period expired on August 27, 2015.That provision was the basis upon which the majority leader of the National Assembly Aden Duale presented a Bill to amend the Constitution in July 2015. The Bill sought to have additional women in leadership if the election does not meet the required threshold of gender representation. If the threshold wasn't met, then the gap would be bridged by picking additional women as per party lists. Political parties would submit a list of members to be nominated. The Bill also targets to review the Elections Act, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commissions Act, the Political Parties Act, the County Governments Act and the National Gender and Equality Commissions Act.The proposed law would lapse 20 years after the date of the second general election held under the Constitution. The hope is that by that time, both genders will have been given a level playing field and will be able to compete on an equal plane.The struggle for women's empowerment seemed to be a realistic goal when majority leader Aden Duale's Bill came up for a second reading on April 26, 2016. The Members of Parliament had already been called upon by the President and the Opposition Leader to show up and vote for the landmark Bill. But when it came to voting, it could only garner 195 supporters, 38 less than the threshold set by Article 256 in the Constitution.Despite the setbacks suffered by the women, in the course of this journey, MPs &ndash; across the political divide must unite and pass the Gender Bill. Moreover, Kenyans must do their civic duty to hold the accountable as passing the Gender Bill not only makes political sense but serves to secure Kenya&rsquo;s economic future. In fact, numerous studies indicate that countries that provide avenues for women to participate in political decision-making tend to perform better economically, socially and politically.Achieving gender equality is, therefore, essential to the reduction of poverty and improvement of governance. Women&rsquo;s participation in politics can facilitate democracy, not only because it improves their civil rights and helps them articulate their interests, but also because women in positions of influence tend to make different policy choices that are beneficial to the distribution of public resources and development. Empowering women as political actors can change policy choices and make institutions more representative of a greater range of voices. Sicily Kariuki is the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs.