Girls&rsquo; basketball defending champions Kaya Tiwi booked an early semi-finals berth yesterday at the ongoing Brookside national secondary school games at State House Girls, Nairobi.The coastal side cruised to the semis after beating Loreto, Limuru 51-19 in their second preliminary match. The match threw off on a high note with the two outfits staging an entertaining give-and-take first quarter amid several steals and turnovers. The Limuru-based line-up gave the defending champs a run for their money in the opening quarter, tying 10-10. With the prospects of the title slipping off their hands imminent, Kaya Tiwi dominated the second period 22-01 to lead 32-11 as they went to the break. On resumption, the tempo of the game slowed down and the scoring went low too as Kaya Tiwi cut off Loreto Limuru&rsquo;s ball supplies, blocking them from accessing the rim. And although Loreto also tried to pin the holders down, Kaya Tiwi won the third quarter 10-03 and the fourth 9-05.Kaya Tiwi captain Winnie Akinyi was the game&rsquo;s top scorer with 19 with Bellin Khavere contributing 10. None of Loreto&rsquo;s players hit the double digits as their top shooter Diborah Chepkoech had eight. &ldquo;The game was not easy. Loreto ran riot on us in the first quarter so we had to put our acts together and bounce back to take charge of the game. We are taking each game at a time as we gear up to defend the trophy,&rdquo; said Akinyi, who picked a knock on his left knee on Tuesday.Kaya Tiwi&rsquo;s coach and 2016 Soya schools&rsquo; coach of the year, Phillip Onyango gave play time to all his players on the first two days of the championships. He said this will help him gauge them early enough in order to how to engage them at the crucial stages.In the second girls&rsquo; tie, Tigoi garnered their first win of 67-47 over Kirigara. Tigoi&rsquo;s Caroline Nduta notched 24 points while Elsy Imbuusi had 11. Kimberly Jahenda and Lydia Nyangweso scored 12 and 11 respectively for the losers. In the boys&rsquo; category, Laiser Hill have revived their quest to reclaim the national title by qualifying for the semis after they defeated Chavakali 73-28 and Nyeri Baptist 70-37. In their match against Nyeri Baptist yesterday, Laiser Hill led from toss to whistle&mdash; leading 12-10, 16-06, 18-08 and 22-13.Robert Tasire and Lou Ceasar scored 22 and 12 points respectively for Laiser Hill while Jasper Kibari and Lal Kuer Bull had eight each for Nyeri Baptist. On the other hand, Chavakali was buoyed by Ted Omondi&rsquo;s 28 and Bryan Mispre&rsquo;s 18 points to wallop Wajir Boys 113-28 to keep their hopes alive. Mohammed Abdullah and Mohammed Abdulrashid scored six each for Wajir Boys.Day 3 fixturesGirlsChief Ogle v St. Bridgit&rsquo;sNyamira v BuruburuTigoi v LoretoKaya Tiwi v KirigaraBoysWajir Boys v Laiser HillNyeri Baptist v ChavakaliKangaru v Upper HillKisumu Boys v Aga Khan