Seychelles will support various sectors to help Kenya grow its economy, a move meant to enhance the bilateral cooperation between the two countries, visiting President Danny Faure said yesterday.Faure said the bilateral agreement signed at State House, Nairobi, marks a new beginning for the two countries to increase trade, share skills and experience, by coming up with new marketing strategies.&ldquo;Time has come to to increase inter-trade. Seychelles is ready to work with Kenya to put in place a framework to improve the fisheries and defence sectors,&rdquo; Faure said at a joint press conference with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Faure added: &ldquo;Fisheries is going to be the next frontier for Kenya. We should partner to use the resources in the sector and help build new industries Kenya wants to set up in fisheries industry.&rdquo;He said respective ministerial officials of the two countries should sit between June and July this year to agree on the timeliness for implementing the signed bilateral agreements. The Seychelles President was accorded full-state honours complete with a 21-gun salute, and inspected a guard of honour mounted by the Kenya Defence Forces. Faure recognised economic benefits Kenya brings to his country, including deployment of teachers, and sought to have a Technical Collaboration Agreement signed to allow outsourcing of more professionals.&ldquo;There are about 400 Kenyans employed in the private sector in Seychelles. Kenya still has the best teachers and we would like to benefit more. We are prepared to transfer knowledge and skills without Kenya paying consultation fees,&rdquo; he said.Seychelles head of state assured that enhanced business cooperation will see his country import poultry and meat products from Kenya, instead of Brazil, to help lower his citizens&rsquo; cost of living.Uhuru said a signed agreement deepening cooperation is not a threat to fair competition, but rather it will mutually benefit the two countries.&ldquo;There will be exchange of intelligence and ideas to address the problem of terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking. And the bilateral cooperation is key in eliminating all evil trades across the Indian Ocean,&rdquo; Uhuru said.He said the agreement will see Kenya export its tourism products such as safari goods to Seychelles. Faure asked Kenyans to maintain an &ldquo;atmosphere of peace and stability&rdquo; during August 8 general election. &ldquo;Seychelles requires well-trained and skilled human capital for employment in various sectors of their economy,&rdquo; State House spokesman Manoa Esipisu said.