Numerous travellers around the world, myself included, have fallen victim to missed flights as a result of being stuck in traffic for too long or miscalculating how long it would actually take to get back to the airport during a layover in a new city. For these and many more reasons, The Lazizi Premiere, Nairobi&rsquo;s prime location only three minutes away from the terminals in the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, makes it the ideal place for business travellers, families, visitors in transit or airline crew. Hotel airport transfers don&rsquo;t get any shorter than this, guaranteeing a timeless transition to your next flight.WINE AND DINEThe hotel has three signature food and beverage outlets offering a superb range of options for the worldly traveller. During my short stay, I started off with a delectable buffet breakfast at the 24-hour dining coffee shop, Aroma. There was everything from the usual tempting English breakfast items coupled with fresh fruits, tea, coffee and pastries, but my favourite from the selection would have to be the savoury bhatura and spicy Indian chickpeas, which came highly recommended by the sous chef. Adjacent to Aroma is Kitchen 9, which serves up a mouthwatering array of global and local cuisine. Velocity Bar is a contemporary take on a traditional English pub and is great for exotic cocktails, draught beers and fine wines coupled with soothing background music. If the weather allows, sit out on the terrace overlooking the water fountain at the front of the hotel. My favourite spot for sundowners (and of the hotel in general) is the rooftop infinity pool, offering spectacular 180-degree views of the airport, complete with a mixologist on deck to whip up whatever tipple you desire from the house menu. SLEEP, WORK AND RELAXWith 144 rooms, this trendy hotel offers the cosmopolitan guest an array of luxurious, comfortable and aptly outfitted superior, deluxe, premium rooms and executive suites to choose from, all with the necessary amenities to suit the needs of the discerning traveller. The secluded Sky View Lounge on the fourth floor has spacious, ergonomic working areas with cosy, lavishly designed suites, interconnecting rooms, a business centre equipped with high-speed WiFi and a professional secretarial team at your beck and call. What&rsquo;s more, you don&rsquo;t need to miss your gym sessions simply because you are travelling, and the rejuvenating face and body treatments and massage therapies at Euphoria Spa should have you relaxed and ready to head out to your next destination.LOCATION:First Freight Lane, JKIACONTACTS:(+254 ) 709 222 444; reservations@thelazizihotels.comStar Rating: 4.3 stars