KCB Group is the most attractive bank to investors, an analysis of the industry performance in 2016 suggests. KCB has dislodged its main competitor Equity from the top position, the quarterly report by upstart Cytonn Investments shows. The report shows KCB moved a place up from second position in the third quarter of 2016 &ldquo;supported by a strong franchise value and intrinsic value score&rdquo;. Co-operative Bank has moved one step up to become the second most attractive stock with Equity going down to third. The survey, which analyses the business strength of the 11 banks listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange, ranks NIC Bank, Housing Finance Group and National Bank as the least attractive in both franchise and intrinsic value score. &ldquo;The report analysed the results of the listed banks in the past year so as to determine which banks are the most attractive and stable for investment from a franchise value and from a future growth opportunity perspective,&rdquo; Cytonn chief investment officer Elizabeth Nkukuu said. The underlying value (intrinsic) of a lender was assigned a weighting of 60 per cent of overall score, while opportunities for future growth (franchise) accounts for the reminder 40 per cent. Diamond Trust Bank has moved up one place to fourth position. Standard Chartered was the biggest mover, moving three positions up from eighth in quarter three 2016, to position five. The Cytonn analysts attributed this to the mid-tier's franchise value. This is further boosted by its high deposits per branch at Sh4.7 billion, which is above the industry average of Sh3.4 billion. DTB's also has a strong tangible common equity ratio of 17 per cent, which is also above the industry average of 14.2 per cent.I&amp;M Holdings dropped from fourth to position six in the latest survey. Barclays came in seventh, a drop from sixth while Stanbic Holdings also dropped to position eight from a previous seventh. NIC, Housing Finance and National bank maintained their positions at nine, 10 and 11 respectively. The banks&rsquo; loan growth was low as the private sector credit uptake recorded a 17-month decline to four per cent as banks adopted more prudent credit risk assessment frameworks to ensure healthy loan books, investment manager Maurice Oduor said. Consequently, non-performing loans ratio rose to 8.4 per cent from 6.1 per cent in 2015.