IT is a very long story.Initially, Raila Odinga met Musalia Mudavadi to talk about their working together, but the latter was very difficult and jittery, following the falling out in 2012.They organised one day to meet when they were going to the USA for the Democratic Institute convention. After that, Raila went to Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli in Kajiado and slept there for two days trying to get Atwoli to convince Mudavadi to come on board. Raila and Atwoli agreed and struck a deal that some public opinion poll be done to show Mudavadi as very popular.Later the poll was done and the coronation took place in Kakamega&rsquo;s Masinde Muliro Gardens.Raila and his team thought that Mudavadi was coming on board to support him for the presidency this year. However, the word and the picture they created out there was that Mudavadi would be the candidate, which was a lie, because at that time I was privy to those details and I told the fellows who were around Musalia that they had been duped but they never wanted to listen.So, when the time came and they got in, they believed that they were going to be given the ticket &ndash; and that is the lie they went around telling the community.Raila is not going to give in and Musalia has already told the community that he is going to be the candidate. So what happens? Will Raila leave the ticket to Mudavadi? No he won't. Does Mudavadi leave NASA? No, because if he leaves the Luyhas abandon him and say he is a weakling and has been cheated again.So what does he do? He is in a very awkward position because if he comes and tells the Luyhas that he has been cheated, he will be asked whether this is the first time he has been duped. They will tell him to his face that you told us you were the candidate and if you aren't then we have no business with you.It is a very difficult situation for them. If they don't agree, which is most likely, there will be a breakup, if there is a breakup then everybody runs on his own, thinking that there will be a runoff. But they will lose, the whole lot of them &ndash; and become irrelevant.