There is no outbreak of malaria in Kenya, the Ministry of Health said yesterday.The head of the National Malaria Control Programme Dr Waqo Ejersa said the spike in malaria cases reported in parts of the Rift Valley is normal during the rainy season. &ldquo;The last time we had an outbreak in Kenya was in 2003. We have not received official communication from the county, but we should be on the lookout. Any suspected case should be tested because the government has provided rapid diagnostic kits and microscopes across the country,&rdquo; Waqo said. Malaria transmission tends to be seasonal, but is more prevalent in the Lake Victoria and the Coast regions.The areas are characterised by rainfall, high temperatures and humidity, the perfect weather for the anopheles gambiae mosquitoes to thrive. &ldquo;We have worked hard in providing treated mosquito nets across the country. We advise people to sleep under them,&rdquo; Waqo told the Star. He was responding to reports of a malaria spike in Nandi county. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital boss Wilson Aruasa said they have treated more than 100 patients in the past month. The prevalence of malaria in Kenya has dropped from 11 per cent in 2010 to eight per cent in 2015, according to the Ministry of Health. The World Malaria Report 2016, released by the World Health Organisation, shows Kenya is among African countries where access to testing and medication has dramatically reduced prevalence. The government is also set to distribute 15 million long-lasting insecticide treated nets to 23 counties that are malaria-prone. The two-year programme will end in 2018. Insecticide lasts for three years.The government plans to have distributed 3.2 million nets in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Vihiga counties by end of this month. They will be followed by Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kericho, Kilifi, Kisii, Kwale, Lamu, Mombasa, Nandi, Narok, Nyamira, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot counties. Ejersa said the nets will be distributed based on the number of people in a household. &ldquo;One net is apportioned to two people and the government seeks to ensure that the campaign covers everyone in the target counties,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;So if you have 10 people in one household, that household will get five nets as we aim for universal coverage because of the high risk of contracting malaria in these counties. Due to the magnitude of the exercise, some nets will be distributed this year, the rest in 2018.&rdquo;