To be a Kenyan, one must learn to come to terms with the unfortunate fact that problems will always be a part of life. True, problems are everywhere, and they are vital if one is to grow as an individual, but some are just outright unnecessary.Consider crime. Why does it seem inextinguishable? Is it vital for the balance of life? Some philosophers have argued that delinquencies are a necessary part of any social organisation.The rationale is that society is as an organism, a system of parts, all of which serve a function for the overall continuance of the society itself. So apparently crime is one of those &lsquo;vital&rsquo; parts.The father of modern sociology, Robert K. Merton, viewed crime and deviance as a response to the inability to achieve social goals. When an individual cannot live an accomplished life, and realises that they cannot achieve success through the legitimate or institutionalised means, they see no other option but to turn to devious means.There is also the Marxist theory, which can easily be connected to the aforementioned presupposition. Marxism has always been tightly intertwined with deeply entrenched communism, but this theory of crime definitely sheds a bright light on the Kenyan situation.The theory is heavily based on the capitalist economic structure of a society. Kenya is big on capitalism, but our strong economy sadly does not reflect on the majority of proletarian Kenyans. Kenya&rsquo;s number of dollar millionaires is among the highest in Africa, and is guaranteed to rise. Most citizens, however, live on less than a dollar a day.Many couldn&rsquo;t get an education if they tried. Many are dying since they can&rsquo;t access the most basic commodity &mdash;food. Yet the Kenyan economy reigns supreme.Marxist theory defines crime as a natural outgrowth of capitalism and views society to be in constant change in response to social inequalities and social conflict.I personally have nothing against the private ownership of property for personal gain. I&rsquo;m actually more for it than socialism because it&rsquo;s the best motivator for hard work. Marxism depicts it as a crime but it&rsquo;s really not. It&rsquo;s just an efficient power source that needs to be carefully contained.If it&rsquo;s left to run wild, there comes a time when too much of it renders the poor completely handicapped. However hard they try to claw their way up, the might of the wealthy shoots them back down.What&rsquo;s going on in our country today is economic oppression and exploitation of the majority, which have in turn created a competitive space in which greed, violence and corruption have flourished. Therefore, we can assert that our legal and institutional frameworks have failed us and are benefitting just a few. Those few are manipulating the many for their own gain.Today, the law is nothing but a tool used to oppress the people. What happened in Eastleigh on March 31 was a clear indicator of how things really are.First, that the police summarily executed criminal suspects in broad daylight before a multitude of onlookers shows that there are those that live above the law, while others are humbled by it. Something&rsquo;s very wrong.Second, since it&rsquo;s arguably an unprecedented occurrence, it has given us a peek into the nature of the relationship between law enforcement and the criminal world. It is a nasty one. The only reason for that can only be that crime is at an all-time high.There are those that turn to crime simply because they don&rsquo;t want to go through the hard way to create wealth, but it is also a fact that many become perpetrators because the system is just simply not playing fair.When funds meant for the society are gormandised by self-centered custodians, many see no hope in the government, which is meant to take care of them.The bottom line is that most problems ordinary Kenyans face are a result of a failed regime. Misplaced priorities within government come at a cost, and that cost is for the lowly Kenyan to suffer.The law is really not law until it becomes supreme. It must be controlled by no one. Those we confer with power should also be worthy of that power. Greed is consuming us, and we need to act before we&rsquo;re obliterated.