Yesterday, sexy TV siren Lillian Muli finally unveiled the love of her life.She posted photos posing with city businessman and Shabana FC chairman Jared Nevaton and captioned them: "Bae". The photos went viral and Lillian Muli had no choice but to delete them. Well, for those who don't know, Lillian and Jared have been rumoured to be dating after they first appeared in public together in 2015. The pair were watching a Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League match between Shabana FC and Nakumatt FC at Machakos Stadium. Concerning his relationship with the Citizen TV news anchor, the proud chairman of the Division 1 side, said: "I don't want to talk about personal life. Lillian Muli and I have been friends for the longest time and I have never denied that. But I think personal life should remain private. Entertainment is not my line of business." Lillian Muli is a mother of one and recently, she has been sharing cryptic messages about relationships which many speculated were indirectly attacking her ex-husband. Lillian seems to be in a happy relationship with the city businessman. Many have questioned his source of wealth, but Jared has rubbished rumours that he deals with precious metals. "I worked for many corporates in the US and I have investments both abroad and here, and that doesn't translate to a flashy lifestyle as many say. I'm just a normal and hardworking Kenyan," he said. Jared, who is known for his flashy lifestyle, has been bankrolling Shabana FC. The city businessman, who owns a fleet of Mercedes-Benzes, prefers a low-key life. Jared is a cool man, according to his friends, and he hangs out in high-end places. The Shabana FC chairman is interested and sports. Asked what he thinks about the Kenyan football industry, he said: "Football is getting better but at the same time not growing at the pace it should, compared to our neighbouring countries. It's not profitable because there are no systems in place to collect revenue and a high level of corruption. The federation and the government need to do something to curb this."