The Kamba are grumbling while the Luhya appear to the biggest beneficiaries in the new NASA lineup.On Thursday a NASA rally in Uhuru Park unveiled Raila Odinga of ODM as its presidential candidate with Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper as his running mate.Raila has confirmed that he will only be remain for one term as president if elected.Raila will be a one term &ldquo;transitional&rdquo; president after he signed off an agreement that states, &ldquo;In the event of renewal of the Coalition Agreement as contemplated in paragraph (1) of this Article, the Coalition&rsquo;s Presidential candidate in the August 2017 elections shall not be eligible for nomination as a presidential candidate for the Coalition."Furthermore ODM will not produce NASA's candidate in 2022.&ldquo;The Coalition&rsquo;s Presidential candidate in the renewed Coalition shall be from a party other than the party of the candidate referred to in paragraph (2) of this (above) Article&rdquo;, the NASA agreement states.As Deputy President, Kalonzo would be first in line to take over in 2022. However Wiper leaders yesterday argued that the Kamba community got raw deal.Kitui West MP and National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze and Kitui Senator David Musila said all Kamba MPs must be consulted and assured that their community will benefit if Nasa wins in August.Nyenze said he led the Wiper negotiating team and Kalonzo was supposed to be the Nasa presidential candidate until Wednesday night.&ldquo;I was in the negotiation team and until the end Kalonzo was the flagbearer. We need to know how that changed. We need to consult because this came as a shocker. We can&rsquo;t pretend things are okay,&rdquo; Nyenze said at Parliament yesterday.Nyenze said they suspected foul play and that is why they did not attend the Uhuru Park rally.&ldquo;We protested yesterday by not attending the NASA rally. Even (Wiper luminary Johnstone ) Muthama was not there,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;All along he ( Kalonzo) told us he won&rsquo;t play second fiddle. People have been calling us asking what happened,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Kamba got a raw deal. It will be very difficult to ask Kambas to play second fiddle again yet they did so in 2013. There is a lot of bad feelings to say the truth and ashame the devil,&rdquo; he said.Despite being the party leader, Musila quit Wiper on Thursday after losing the Kitui governor's race to incumbent Julius Malombe. He said he was not sure whether he could still support Wiper.&ldquo;We are not passing judgement if we are supporting or not supporting the lineup,&rdquo; he said. He said Wiper MPs must be taken through the Nasa agreement.&ldquo;All our negotiators also seem not to know the context of the agreement,&rdquo; he said.Under the portfolio allocation the Luhya community is set to be the greatest beneficiary in NASA.NASA founder and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Senator Moses Wetangula represent the two main Luhya sub-clans. As two of the five NASA principals, they will each be able to appoint four Cabinet Secretaries. The long lost Luhya unity may have been recovered.&ldquo;The community hasn&rsquo;t had it this good since the days of Moi and Kibaki II when we were visible in government. We owe nobody an apology if we say we own NASA because it is our stepping stone to lost glory&rdquo;, says Vihiga Constituency MP and ANC governor nominee Yusuf Chanzu.Mudavadi takes the plum post, to be created, of Premier Cabinet Secretary and will wield immense powers as coordinator of government ministries and overseer of Cabinet.Mudavadi will also hold the powerful Interior ministry portfolio. Symbolically Mudavadi read the main speech at the NASA launch and announced the line-up to the rally.NASA has classified cabinet portfolios into Economic and Devolution clusters. Wetangula will be Deputy Premier Cabinet Secretary responsible for the Economic Affairs cluster and will have the Infrastructure ministry. Mudavadi will appoint the Food and Agriculture minister and Wetangula will appoint Energy.The five principals will nominate the rest of the cabinet on the basis of &ldquo;electoral performance determined by the votes cast for each party as a percentage of the votes cast for the coalition candidates in all elections&rdquo;, says the agreement deposited with RPP.&ldquo;When I formed NASA, I never had ME in mind. I had WE in mind. I had YOU in mind. I had US in mind. And finally I had KENYA in mind. The NASA I have in mind is the one that will nab mediocrity, dishonesty, and arrest thieves of public resources. I see a Nasa of good governance that will frown on impunity by leaders. It is a NASA that will restore decency and humility as social and governance virtues&rdquo;, Mudavadi said on Thursday.Together with Wetangula, Mudavadi controls the Luhya, the largest ethnic voting bloc in NASA with 2.6 million voters, second only to to the Kikuyu bloc. Mudavadi's role as kingmaker may lead to even greater things.&ldquo;People forget Uhuru leaned over backwards in 2007 to accommodate Kibaki but came back and rode to victory in 2013. Come 2022, Mudavadi will take his rightful place at the head of NASA. He will be unstoppable&rdquo;, said Wasai Nanjakululu, a political commentator. Wasai says it will be difficult to convince the Luhya to quit NASA for a mirage in the Jubilee stable that is locked up until 2032 if Deputy President William Ruto becomes President in 2022.&ldquo;There is nothing for the community in Jubilee which has waged economic warfare on them. The economy of the region has gone to the dogs since Jubilee took over. There was the PR at reviving Mumias which is now on its death bed. Then followed the con of reviving the Sh18 billion worth Pan Paper after selling it for only Sh900 million to a well-connected political family&rsquo;, adds Cleophas Malala, ANC Kakamega senatorial candidate.