This was the week that the Jubilee Administration presented
its fourth and final scorecard of its first term as a preliminary to seeking
reelection. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto
used the launch of the National Government Public Information Portal in Nairobi
on Monday to unveil a 12-point record of achievements that they hope will drive
their reelection. They used statistical data interspersed with narrative and
spin to fight the Opposition narrative that Jubilee Party has in barely 48
months saddled Kenyans with the biggest national debt in their history, the
worst runaway corruption and other superlatives of negativity. But ODM leader and National Super Alliance luminary Raila
Odinga promptly spat at the national government’s figures, dismissing them all
out of hand. While all this contention was going on, inside
NASA itself, the four principals – Raila, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC’s
Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Mose Wetang’ula – were still locked in the three-month-long
struggle to produce a presidential candidate flagbearer to run against
President Uhuru at the August 8 General Election.  FALSIFYING THE TRUTH Looking at both these scenarios unfolding in real time and
all dedicated to the presidential race in Kenya’s 12th General
Election, one is reminded powerfully of the phrase “post-truth politics”, the
Oxford Dictionaries’ Phrase of the Year of 2016. Wikipedia defines post-truth politics, “(also called
post-factual politics) as a political culture in which debate is framed largely
by appeals to emotion disconnected from the details of policy, and by the
repeated assertion of talking points to which factual rebuttals are ignored.
Post-truth differs from traditional contesting and falsifying of truth by
rendering it of ‘secondary’ importance. While this has been described as a
contemporary problem, there is a possibility that it has long been a part of
political life, but was less notable before the advent of the Internet. In the
novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, George Orwell cast a world in which the state
changes historic records daily to fit its propaganda goals of the day. “Political commentators have identified post-truth politics
as ascendant in Russian, Chinese, American, Australian, British, Indian,
Japanese and Turkish politics, as well as in other areas of debate, driven by a
combination of the 24-hour news cycle, false balance in news reporting, and the
increasing ubiquity of social media.” It became the Oxford Dictionaries’ Word of the Year in the
context of 2016’s Brexit referendum and US Presidential election. On Monday, President Uhuru beseeched Kenyans, “It is going
to take effort. Even a farmer must prepare the land, sow, fertilise, weed, and
ultimately tend that crop. I believe we have started. I ask for patience, time,
and support. We ask the people of Kenya to give us another opportunity to be
able to continue on this transformational journey.”  RAILA CALLS THE PDU A
SHAM On Tuesday, Raila, alone among the NASA principals, issued a
detailed nine-point rejoinder to JP’s one dozen points, huffing dismissively
that the government’s own tally did not add up. He told Kenyans that the PDU
launch was a sham wrapped in a bagful of lies. Raila accused the President of “clinging to lies to seek
reelection”. He termed “a big mystery” the government’s records on the
actual number of kilometres tarmacked in the last four years. “When these highways are completed, they will be only 100km
shy of Mombasa to Kisumu ( 830 ) plus Namanga to Moyale ( 970 ) plus Nairobi to
Mandera ( 800 ),” he said. “Which are the cities the highways are connecting? The
existing cities, towns and most municipalities for that matter are already
connected,” Raila taunted Jubilee. On electricity connectivity, Raila said the number of
households connected is “marked by the same confusion and contradictions being
peddled about roads”. “As of now, we have five wildly different numbers. The
President’s figure is 2.9 million, CS Treasury says it is 3.7 million, the
Energy CS says it is 5.5 million, and the Deputy Chief of Staff Nzioki Waita
says 5.8 million,” he said “Customers include business premises and institutions, not
just homes,” he said. To the Jubilee faithful, Raila’s prompt and rude response to
UhuRuto’s impressive self-assessment appeared to be not so much a case of
irresistible force meets immovable object as sheer bloody mindedness, the
age-old Odinga versus Kenyatta epic struggle that has blighted two generations
of Kenyan politics. Many Jubilee supporters who believe UhuRuto has truly
transformed the country since 2013 wondered out loud, including on social
media, whether, going forward, Kenya will be run on the basis of rhetorical
exchanges and a torrent of naysaying and insults from the Opposition. At the same time the JP brigades mercilessly scorned NASA’s
apparent inability to find a flagbearer to challenge Uhuru, referring to Odinga
as “Ojinga”, and gleefully predicting that he would impose himself on NASA and
go on to lose to Uhuru yet again. In-between all the spin, counter-spin, propaganda and
counterpropaganda, the ordinary Kenyan, who has never yet been allowed a
sustained issues-based national political discourse by his and her tribal
overlords, must be getting extremely confused. But the post-truth era is really nothing new in Africa. It begun long before the end of colonialism,
and incoming regimes such as Kwame Nkrumah’s in Ghana, Julius Nyerere’s in
Tanzania, Jomo Kenyatta’s in Kenya, and many, many others, entered office with
alternative views and histories about Africa’s historical encounters with the
West, the settlers and the colonial state, that were diametrically opposed to
the colonialist’s worldview. As George Ogola has pointed out, President Donald Trump’s
stunning victory over Hillary Clinton is one of the highest points of
post-truth politics, whose proponents claim objective facts are less
influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal
belief.  TRUTH REGIMES REMAIN
CONTESTED Writing in The Conversation on February 27, 2017, under the
headline “Africa has a long history of fake news after years of living with
non-truth”, Ogola observed, “The American experience and the debates it has
triggered on post-politics, post-truth, fake news and alternative facts are
relevant in Africa where truth regimes remain both loose and contested. “It is important to recognise that in Africa, the idea of a
post-truth era – which by implication presupposes the existence of an era in
which “truth” was self-evident – is folly”. For as long as most Kenyans can remember, there has always
been a Kenyatta and an opposing Odinga worldview, even when there was no Kenyatta
or Odinga in government – for instance during much of Daniel arap Moi’s
24-year-long tenure at State House. Whereas the political elite can afford the luxury of
“post-truth” postures, being highly educated, well-travelled and worldly wise,
their supporters in a highly ethnicised country, 65 per cent of whose capital
city’s population lives in informal settlements and slums, have no such luxury. Indeed, it can be argued that the participants in the Rwanda
Genocide of April-May 1994 had their own “post-truth” mindset and trance that
spun out of control of the educated elite. And so indeed did the combatants of
Kenya’s post-election violence crisis of December 2007 to January 2008. Things like Jubilee’s four-year first term scorecard of
course ought to be eminently, tangibly and qualitatively verifiable.  They are not abstract notions. Large public
infrastructure, community projects, healthcare and other services cannot all be
waved and wished away with the wave of a hand on the basis of so-called “emotive
politics”.  JUBILEE SCORECARD NOT
A CAR ACCIDENT Adversarial politics have always been a staple of Kenyan
electioneering, but as with the US Presidential campaign last year, they have
rarely if ever plumbed the depths (there are those who will say the heights,
and they are entirely within their rights to do so) of Raila’s savaging of the
JP scorecard. As for the seeming struggle inside NASA for a unified
standard bearer, that too appears to have its own “post-truth” factors, about
which more next week. A State of the Nation address or a Presidential
administration’s self-scorecard at the end of a first term is not a car
accident scenario. However, both require credible witnesses, the latter for a
successful insurance claim and the former for the all-important purposes of
reelection, or not. In car insurance, “third party” witnesses are essential and
their credibility is key. In Presidential self-scorecards, third party
witnesses come by multiple millions and they also include the electorate
nationwide, or they do not. Raila’s attempt to reduce Jubilee’s four-year
scorecard to a car crash at which only the drivers were present will not wash.
The last four years cannot possibly boil down to the word of one driver (the
President) and another (the Opposition leader). At this rate the “post-truth” posture could yet reach the
slums and the villages and be applied to actual General Election results – with
consequences we cannot begin to contemplate.       