If an ultimatum were all that was necessary to identify a presidential candidate for the National Super Alliance, the team would not have appointed a 12-member committee to settle the issue. Exemplary ability to throw tantrums, so to speak, would have been a cheaper and a shorter way of identifying an opposition presidential candidate.Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, the Wiper secretary general, a gentleman with a progressive disposition, is at the centre of the NASA hullabaloo. The irony is, the senator is not concealing his personal interests.Francis Nyenze, Minority Chief Whip and a Wiper representative in the alliance&rsquo;s presidential selection committee, is the face of these ultimatums, threats, and tantrums.Nyenze gave NASA seven days, ending today, to name Kalonzo Musyoka its presidential candidate. If this fails, Nyenze says, Wiper would quit to sponsor Kalonzo for a solo presidential run.Nyenze&rsquo;s outburst has been described as &lsquo;excitement&rsquo;. It could also be incitement or inducement. Steakholders may be behind Nyenze&rsquo;s threats. The outburst was disguised as hard tackle to secure the NASA presidential baton for the &lsquo;Kamba kingpin&rsquo;.Omar&rsquo;s rage, which underlies his ambition for a higher county elective office, contradicts the anticipated NASA consensus. Personal interests, sociologists know, often undermine compromises that could stabilise group interests.Each time Nyenze and Omar fish for excuses to foment a ruckus in NASA, they betray personal interests. This is unusual for Omar, but may be typical for the yet-to-be quantified Nyenze. The man, we are told, is excitable.Although Nyenze has been in elective politics longer than the senator, he is an unknown quality and quantity in standing for, and sustaining, the public interest. Omar may want a stronger NASA, but he is putting his personal ambition ahead of the interests of the super alliance. His rejection of a joint NASA nomination in Mombasa county is not for love of Wiper.Omar knows he is weaker, politically, compared to the rough riding Hassan Joho, the Mombasa governor. The senator fears Joho could tame his ambition too early if there were a single opposition candidate for Mombasa governor.Already, another aspirant for Mombasa governor has quit Wiper, thanks to Omar&rsquo;s intransigence. Nyali MP Hezron Awiti is yet to find his bearings in the race for Mombasa governor. Omar is spiking NASA to advance his ambition for governor.Nyenze&rsquo;s tantrums are suspicious. The minority whip is not looking for any office bigger than being an MP. He has not declared any such interest. But his jeers may have an external influence.Observers are asking, who has a stake in sponsoring a riot in NASA?The ruckus has been given a tribal hue. &ldquo;The Kambas have reached an edge and if it is not Kalonzo, Wiper will go it alone,&rdquo; Nyenze yelled, as if in a state of dementia.This is not the first time Nyenze is saying NASA would be dead unless Kalonzo is the opposition alliance presidential candidate. Nyenze, the opposition leader in the National Assembly, is inconsolable for lack of a Kamba president. Nyenze claims his views are Wiper&rsquo;s and represent Kalonzo&rsquo;s position on NASA leadership.When Nyenze blows hot, Kalonzo blows cold. It&rsquo;s the tack of mice nibbling at the sleeping prey. Nyenze claims he is speaking for Wiper, but it is also feared he could be rocking the NASA armada at the behest of steakholders.Nyenze&rsquo;s threats are hurting Kalonzo&rsquo;s image as a team player, a NASA principal, and a sometimes gentleman. Kalonzo has not said anything near Nyenze&rsquo;s hard talk, but he denies being the weak link in the opposition column.In the high-stake NASA presidential ticket, Nyenze may have found an opportunity to cash in on the fears of steakholders. The onus, then, is on Kalonzo to reassure his NASA allies, as he has done many times now, that Nyenze is a residual brat, who does not know NASA principals cannot support Kalonzo by force of threats.