I commend the ODM party leader for steering clear of the nomination process to let the people decide who will represent them. I&rsquo;m sure there are certain individuals he would have loved to see win who didn&rsquo;t and others he would have loved to see lose who won. That is the nature of politics. It is now time to turn our full attention to August 8. It is the liberation of Kenya that&rsquo;s at stake ... Our eye on the ball!&rdquo;This statement by aspiring politician and ODM diehard Sam Okello best captures what the party&rsquo;s rank and file think of their leader Raila Odinga, who was on Thursday named the NASA presidential candidate.For the first time in ODM history, Raila acted presidential, keeping way above the fray and the muck that marked most of that party&rsquo;s nomination exercise.An insider source well acquainted with the affairs of the party said, &rdquo;Most of the losers in the primaries rushed to Raila&rsquo;s offices on Capitol Hill. He would listen patiently as they lamented about how they had been rigged out. After they finish, he would quietly tell them to head to Orange House, the party headquarters, and sort the matter out with the National Elections Board.&rdquo;Perhaps the only place where many suspected Raila&rsquo;s hand was in his Bondo birthplace. Earlier Wednesday morning, there was backslapping and merrymaking as people celebrated the trouncing of Raila&rsquo;s elder brother Oburu Oginga by one Gordon Ochanda.Before the party could even get halfway, things took a different turn and Oburu was announced the winner. This one matter sparked protests with some wondering why Oburu&rsquo;s perennial whining ways see him behaving like Raila&rsquo;s son instead of an elder brother.With the bagging of the NASA ticket, many of his supporters are now looking forward to the possibility of another &lsquo;Mother of All Battles&rsquo; pitting Raila against President Uhuru Kenyatta.However, this selection for the ticket does not take away the fact that the ODM primaries were the most chaotic in the country. Raila may have done his best to keep away from the melee, but that does not hide the fact that a bunch of incompetents were allowed to run the elections.One of the most hilarious &mdash; if not outright idiotic &mdash; things I ever read was a Facebook post saying that Ochillo Ayacko deserved to lose in the ODM nominations because apparently, the former minister had some improper &lsquo;liaison&rsquo; with his friend&rsquo;s wife.Let me state from the outset that I am not campaigning for Ayacko. Far be it from me to do so, considering the fact that I do not even have a vote there. What I want to highlight is the depth of pettiness some people seemed to have sunk to during the ODM nominations, more so in its strongholds in the former Nyanza province.I am not saying that even Ayacko himself is a saint. That both he and incumbent Governor Okoth Obado later claimed to have been duly nominated to fly that party&rsquo;s flag at the August polls shows there was some level of deviousness involved. In short, a lot of Chinese accounting must have taken place.Many people have usually painted ODM as the party of chaos. Remember the Men in Black at Kasarani a few years back and the ejection of former Executive Director Magerer Lang&rsquo;at from Orange House? Well the party members might want to disagree with me, but the truth of the matter is that whenever ODM comes to town, people get scared.It is a fact that even the Jubilee nominations were marred by violence. However, the party&rsquo;s bigwigs later brought the apparatchiks to heel and things went well after that. In the ODM house, things started going south from day one and the ride never stopped.It is another fact that at the time of writing this, it is only in the ODM zones where a death has been reported. What of the new ingenious nomination method where opposing candidates both end up with a nomination certificate? The Migori comedy of errors would have made for a good laugh were it not for the fact that there was violence and people broke limbs.It was a tragi-comedy watching as both Ayacko and Obado brandished tickets with each claiming he was the bona fide candidate. This one saw another wag writing, tongue in cheek, &ldquo;Migori is too vast for one Governor. Congratulations to Okoth Obado and Ochillo Ayacko for both winning the ODM nominations. Obado can work during the day and Ayacko during the night in the spirit of the 24-hour economy.&rdquo;On a more serious note, I want to believe that the party headquarters will crack the whip and have the guilty party charged. The chaos cannot go unpunished in a party that has the word &lsquo;democratic&rsquo; in its name.This is how it was reported, &ldquo;Obado and his rival Ayacko were announced victors in parallel tallying exercises and each awarded a provisional ODM certificate. Consequently, the two were announced to have garnered approximately 110,000 votes in the corresponding exercises.&rdquo;Obado was the first to be declared the winner at the Migori Teachers&rsquo; College hall by returning officer Samson Olale. The governor garnered 110,142 votes.But one hour later, the chairman of the county election panel Tom Otike declared Ayacko the winner saying he was the legitimate party official who should declare the results. The officer said Ayako polled 110,000 votes against Obado&rsquo;s 68,000 votes.&rdquo;This sparked a round of protests. In the last elections, Obado felt ODM had rigged him out and hopped to the People&rsquo;s Democratic Party, on which he won to be governor. His supporters are upbeat, saying that if he is denied the ticket, he will repeat what he did in 2013 and win from another party other than ODM.In the neighbouring Homa Bay county, the drama was no less frenetic, as Governor Cyprian Awiti chose to cling to the seat by all means necessary. Mayhem started when the returning officer declared Awiti the winner with 46,343 votes, ahead of Oyugi Magwanga and Sam Wakiaga among others.It is sad to note that two people lost their lives here &mdash; one ran over by a car and the other one shot dead, most likely by the police.In Kisumu, the dispute between Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o and incumbent Governor Jack Ranguma saw the two gentlemen at one time both having nomination tickets. Here, again, the fact is one of the two gentlemen was lying &mdash; there is no way two people can win a contest.This, therefore, begs the question, what will be done to the incompetent returning officers whose recklessness led to mayhem and even death? It is my strong belief that ODM, as a party, owes Kenyans some action against these people.Letting them go scot-free &mdash; and this being Kenya, I am sure money changed hands leading to the shambolic polls &mdash; will only serve to embolden this lot that they can do whatever they want and get away with it.If the party is not ready to take action, I hope one spirited Kenyan will take up the matter. I believe somewhere in our statutes there must be something promising stern action against people whose recklessness leads to loss of life.Still on matters ODM, I want to extend warmest congratulations to my friend Senator James Orengo. This man will go down in history as the only contender who never campaigned (apart from one Friday when he told his supporters go out and vote), never printed a single T-shirt, never held noisy roadshows but still went ahead to win by a landslide. Now that is a brand.Finally, as the August 8 date with destiny beckons, I bet we will be seeing more and more drama from our ever-innovative politicians. Expect more stage-managed abductions, ears being shot at and name-calling.My only hope is that we will have the presence of mind to conduct mature campaigns, and as even calmer post-election period. Remember in all the seats there will be only one winner. Meaning we must have losers. It is time Kenyans realised that although very important, politics is not a matter of life and death.