DISCLOSURES that Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) has purchased the iconic 680 Hotel in Nairobi&rsquo;s city centre for a whopping Sh3 billion have left many tongues wagging. Some Rift Valley legislators were heard saying just how rich their boss has become. Many MPs from the region are looking at the DP with envy and believe that, with time, the man from Eldoret will join the super league of the super rich. COUNTY executive committee members are actively drumming up support for the reelection of their bosses. A Mt Kenya senator contesting the governor seat was heard lamenting and criticising the CECs in his county for traversing villages, campaigning for their boss. It is said the senator even accused the incumbent of &ldquo;forcing&rdquo; the CECs to intensify the campaigns until he retains the seat. AN MP from Upper Eastern was made fun of by some of his colleagues after he was asked what meetings his committee had last week. The man could not explain. According to his colleagues, the man never misses a meeting, but fellow members say he has never made a contribution or even asked questions. &ldquo;The man is only interested in the Sh5,000 per sitting and nothing else. I have never heard him utter a word other than his name,&rdquo; a fellow MP from Nyanza said. A senior Jubilee operative was overheard questioning why they should be defending the government against any criticism by the opposition. The officer, who frequents restaurants around Yaya Centre, is said to hold a dissenting opinion about defending the state, right or wrong, arguing they have a future in national politics and an image to protect. It is said he cited the disputed NASA parallel tallying centre as an example. ARE some Education ministry officials in the counties blackmailing guardians with bright students from needy families admitted to top performing high schools? Some officials in Western are forcing guardians to transfer their wards to lower secondary schools next term for them to receive the state&rsquo;s bursary funding. The guardians are wondering why the officials under the no-nonsense and tough-talking CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i have indefinitely changed their minds and are piling pressure on them. WORD has it that tension has gripped ODM lawmakers in the party&rsquo;s strongholds. Some have vowed to no longer attend House sessions if they lose in the primaries that kick off this Friday. Our mole tells Corridors the worried lawmakers said there will be no need to attend the sessions because they will no longer be MPs. Winning the ODM ticket is as good as retaining or taking a seat for the first time on August 8.