President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he was misquoted in reports about an endorsement for Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth. It was reported that the President appeared to endorse the former Gatanga MP as Jubilee flag bearer for the seat held by ODM's Evans Kidero. Senator Mike Sonko is also eyeing the ticket. More on this: Uhuru 'endorses' Peter Kenneth for Jubilee ticket in Nairobi governor race In an address to the media at State House on Thursday, Uhuru said in Kiswahili: "Sikuwaambia wamchague. Nilisema wamuombee. Hiyo si kupigia mtu debe. (I did not tell them to vote for him. I asked them to pray for him. That does not amount to an endorsement)." "Muombeeni...ubaya uko wapi? Hata naombea aspirants wote (Pray for him. Where is the problem? I am praying for all aspirants)." Uhuru added that he and his Jubilee Party do not have favourites for the August 8 general election. "I will work with the people chosen by the wananchi," he said. During the burial of former Gatanga MP David Murathe's father, Uhuru asked Murang'a residents to pray for Peter Kenneth to ensure he wins the Jubilee nominations on Friday. "I am calling on you, Kirwara residents, to pray for your son so that he can win the Jubilee ticket in Nairobi," he said. The President allowed Kenneth the chance to address the people. "I will fight to get the ticket and seat in Nairobi so that when I come to visit you I will be Nairobi governor. I urge you all to vote for the President in the general election to prove your love for him," he said. It has been said that Kenneth will shake up Nairobi politics. Kiharu MP Irungu Kang'ata cited his his experience and achievements in and out of Parliament, which he said will be a plus for Nairobi residents. Also in the race is former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. Read: Peter Kenneth will shake up Nairobi, politicians say on governor bid There were claims that Sonko had quit the race for Kenneth but the Senator dismissed it as "social media propaganda". The legislator has maintained that he will be on the ballot as leaders are chosen by people. Read more: I've not stepped down for Peter Kenneth in Nairobi governor race - Sonko