Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s reelection campaign team of six is shaping up.Four members - Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni), Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Said Abdalla (Nyali) - have already secured the ODM ticket.Two - Badi Twalib (Jomvu) and Goshi Ally (Changamwe) - are yet to know the results of voting. Nominations in their constituencies were marred by violence.Mombasa being an ODM stronghold, the ticket is almost a guarantee of victory on August 8. Ally, a football administrator, will focus on attracting the youth vote through sports.He will organise football tournaments.Mboko will appeal to women. She is said to be a good campaigner.Abdalla will also mobilise the youth, who form the largest vote bloc in the county. Bedzimba and Nassir will appeal to all groups to give Joho another term.Joho is aiming for the highest seat in the land in 2022. He wants to be the first President from the Coast.Until then, he is focussed on ensuring ODM leader Raila Odinga wins the August election, should he be chosen the NASA flagbearer.NASA is expected to name its candidate today at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. This is Raila&rsquo;s last attempt at the presidency.Joho&rsquo;s team is documenting his achievements on CDs that will be available for free to all residents.A video will also be posted on social media. An online team will be formed to manage information flow and counter-propaganda in real time.Joho&rsquo;s four-year track record will form the basis of the team&rsquo;s campaign strategy.Joho was among the seven ODM governors given a direct ticket early this month.Joho is known as an abrasive and no-nonsense leader with a huge following at the Coast.It is for this reason he has been incorporated in Raila&rsquo;s campaign team. Joho also has deep pockets.He has said he will spend very little time campaigning for himself in Mombasa.Joho said his focus has shifted to national politics.&ldquo;You are the people who will campaign for me here as I traverse the country supporting Baba [Raila],&rdquo; he said at Frere Town during a rally last month.Joho said the Coast ODM tours, which culminated in the announcement of the Pwani Declaration on March 26, were the beginning of his foray into national politics.&ldquo;We will go to every corner of this country telling people why they should vote out Jubilee. You, my supporters, will take charge here in Mombasa. I don&rsquo;t need to campaign here,&rdquo; he said.But Joho&rsquo;s absence might spell doom for his governor bid as opponents could use the opportunity to gain an edge.Other governor aspirants are Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Vibrant Democratic Party, Senator Hassan Omar of Wiper and Jubilee&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal.Awiti has said he can beat Joho. He has said the governor should not &ldquo;hang on Raila&rsquo;s coat to cover up for mismanaging the county&rdquo;.&ldquo;You should own up to your mistakes,&rdquo; Awiti said.Joho has been fighting allegations of forging his KCSE certificate to get admission to the University of Nairobi.He denied the claim. The governor has also had fierce exchanges with President Uhuru Kenyatta, and at one point the head of state told him to stop following him because &ldquo;I am not your wife.&rdquo;Omar has also attacked Joho, accusing him of poor leadership and forgery. &ldquo;Forgery is forgery,&rdquo; he said.