A chance to consolidate their lead atop the Kenyan Premier League standings is on hand for Gor Mahia when they clash with unpredictable Sony Sugar in the fifth round of the 34-match top flight campaign. Kogallo, with nine points, will be hoping to build on their narrow solitary goal win last weekend as will Sony, who won by a similar margin last time out. Sony will be hoping for inspiration from forward Amos Asembeka who has been rewarded with a call up to the home-based Harambee Stars squad that will play a friendly against Malawi next week.The forward has played a huge role in the millers two wins in four and they will need him to be on his game if Sony are to upset Gor.Kogallo themselves will be confident of taking all three points with Rwandese forward Medie Kagere likely to start ahead of Timothy Otieno.Holders Tusker, who are yet to show a consistent mettle of champions, have a difficult afternoon in their hands when they duel with unbeaten title contenders Ulinzi Stars.Though they have shown some element of revival after their torrid start to their title defense, the brewers are yet to fully convince. Tusker will be without influential duo of James Situma, who is suspended, and Noah Wafula, who is bereaved. Ulinzi, on the other hand, have looked like champions in waiting with seven points in three matches. They could also claim top spot with a victory. Samuel Onyango amd Enos Ochieng will lead a fearsome Ulinzi attack.Bandari will fancy their chances of clinching a third successive home win when they host Thika United tomorrow. The dockers have once again made home-form the foundation of their fighting for the title and another win today will only enhance Mbaraki as a fortress.Thika&rsquo;s form has been patchy and without experienced heads in their ranks, they are likely to struggle away from home. It&rsquo;s a conundrum coach James Nandwa must find a solution to if Thika are to compete at the top half of the table. AFC Leopards were brought down to earth with a loss in their match against one of the sugar-belt sides. Tomorrow, they host another, Muhoroni Youth, in the late kick off match hoping to snap their two match winless streak. Muhoroni, on other hand, will hope that the boardroom tiffs they had to grapple with are behind them and they can now concentrate on getting results on the pitch.New boys Zoo Kericho are the only side yet to pick any point in their maiden appearance in the top flight league. Tomorrow, they host Sofapaka hoping to end that sorry run. Inexperience in their ranks has undermined their debut season and it will be the likes of Andrew Ongwae, who will be looked upon to guide their teammates through the next few weeks.Since their stunning win in the opening day of the campaign, Nzoia Sugar have hit a rocky patch managing only a point out of a possible nine.They make the short trip to face Kakamega Homeboyz tomorrow looking to revert to their early season start and stem their slide down the eighteen team standings table.Western Stima will also be in action against Chemelil Sugar seeking to get another victory to add to the heady triumph over leaders Gor a fortnight ago.Kariobangi Sharks will also be looking to build up on their crucial first top flight win when they take on Nakumatt on Easter Monday. It was just a matter of time before William Muluya&rsquo;s men got their first PremierLeague win but the convincing manner they defeated Nzoia at their own backyard shows Sharks are first among the promoted sides.Nakumatt though will be keen to prove otherwise against their peers. Second-placed Posta Rangers and Mathare United bring the curtains down on a fully packed Easter weekend when they go toe to toe on Monday.