On March 31, a shocking clip of a fatal encounter between a subdued suspected gangster in the hands of a plainclothes police officer went viral on social media. A bullet riddled body of another young man lay lifeless on the tarmac. The two were said to be part of a gang that had earlier murdered a police officer. Social media was abuzz with messages praising and condemning the police. There was a clear stalemate of opinion between those who, in principle believe that due process, natural justice and human rights must prevail and those who felt that the killings were justified. They reiterated that victims, especially the police, have rights too.The matter in contention was not about whether the shooting was legal, but whether it was justified. One thing stood out from this debate: The fact that far too many Kenyans seem to have been victims of violent crime. As a survivor of a violent robbery by six thugs, who abducted, beat, robbed and almost killed me on May 19, 2010, I understand the temptation to wish violent death upon my assailants. Which begs the question, is there a criminal justice system to speak of? Who, amongst the actors, has failed, and why? Amnesty International&rsquo;s 2016 report indicates that out of 177 cases of enforced disappearances in African, Kenya had 70 per cent (122). In 2009, UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions Philip Alston concluded that police in Kenya frequently execute individuals and that a climate of impunity prevails. He noted that this approach never works, instead it perpetrates the notion that police are good at killing but not at law enforcement. The Constitution vests the Judiciary with the responsibility to decide on the guilt or innocence of accused persons. However, the Judiciary relies on the police to arrest suspects and conduct investigations, and the Director of Public Prosecutions to prosecute for a just verdict to be reached. The state, through the Kenya Prisons Service, is charged with rehabilitating those who have gone through due process and been found guilty. Any failure by any of the four major actors collapses the criminal justice system and breeds impunity because one institution cannot function without the other. In Kenya, one or all of the actors have, for one reason or another, failed in their mandate. Stakeholders, including the opposition, government and Parliament, have failed to propose solutions, mainly because they usually fall within the group that can afford &lsquo;justice&rsquo;. As such, guilt and punishment are determined by individuals instead of a judicial process. The lack of accountability, corruption, impunity and gaps in the system has made extrajudicial executions an expeditious way of dealing with the most hardened criminals. Kenyans must jealously guard the rule of law &mdash; without it, democracy cannot exist. A reason often cited by police, who put their lives in harm&rsquo;s way, against armed and dangerous criminals is that the Judiciary is often too eager to grant bail to arrested criminals. The reality, however, is the service takes the number one spot in systemic corruption. A corrupt police service cannot, and will never, be able to tackle crime because justice becomes the province of the moneyed and profiteering becomes the mission statement of the NPS. In any civilised society, every person accused of a crime should have their guilt or innocence determined by fair and effective legal processes. But the right to a fair trial is not just about protecting suspects and defendants. It also makes societies safer and stronger. Without fair trials, trust in justice and in government collapses. Part of the reason the National Youth Service was allocated billions of shillings under the Jubilee administration was the recognition that the youth, especially those in slums, needed to be empowered. However, this idea was bastardised by a few well-placed individuals who looted the money. How many young people could have been saved the dead end that is a life of crime if the money earmarked for their empowerment was not looted without consequence?If Kenyans want to take a nosedive into a failed state, perhaps we should start with individuals and government officials who deliberately steal from the youth, the sick, the marginalised and the poor and follow the Chinese example of placing them in front of firing squads. Instead, bigoted Kenyans are quick to justify the systematic murder of the poor. Remember, part of the Anglo Leasing contracts was supposed to set up a forensic lab that would enhance the ability of the police to arrest and prosecute criminals by collecting, analysing and preserving physical evidence. I find no distinction between economic gangsters &ndash; NYS, Anglo Leasing, Mafya House, Goldenberg thieves &ndash; and murderers, robbers and rapists. Both their actions ultimately lead to death, suffering, poverty and destruction. They should be prosecuted and jailed.