Busia has for a long period been profiled as an ODM zone, and it is not easy for any other political party make inroads in the county.However, political persuasion, persistent wrangles and confrontations within the party have given other parties an opportunity to set up political bases in the county, and this has negatively affected the party&rsquo;s popularity at the grassroots. Those that have established include Budalang&rsquo;i MP Anabu Namwamba&rsquo;s LPK, Jubilee, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s Ford Kenya and Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s ANC.Matters started falling apart for ODM the moment former secretary general and current LPK party leader leader Ababu left, citing frustrations and betrayal by Raila Odinga and his close allies. Despite ODM leaders in the county frantic attempts to repair the damage caused, and to maintain the party&rsquo;s political strength, not much has been achieved. In any case, more cracks are emerging. Admittedly, ODM is still the darling of most politicians in the county, but largely depends on the outcome of the ongoing primaries. It risks losing the losers to other parties.Leading up to the bungled governor nominations, there were persistent wrangles and confrontations among party leaders.For instance, the eagerly awaited ODM nominations that were scheduled for April 7 were later postponed to April 13, although various party aspirants had used a lot of resources in preparation for the same. The outcome of the governor primaries was cancelled due to massive irregularities. The re-run will be on April 25.That aside, ODM parliamentary aspirants especially those from Budalangi had engaged in politics of abuse and insults in public, further polarising the county politics.Supporters are of the view that party leader Raila should move in and restore order if ODM is to retain its influence in the county.One of persistent wrangles have been between Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, the ODM national vice chairman, differences that came intp national limelight on Friday.Residents say party leaders should iron out their political differences and work together for the common good of the people, instead of engaging in unending scuffles. They fear that unless the leaders drop their self-centeredness politics and unite to build the party image, then the county will continue lagging behind in terms of development.It is said bad politics lead to bad life. This is true, looking at Busia&rsquo;s poverty levels, currently standing at 68 per cent, despite having many resources.After the nominations on Thursday, Otuoma said he was confident that he had won in five constituencies, garnering 90 per cent of the votes. But ODM County Election Board secretary Innocent Oluku announced the incumbent as the winner. &ldquo;People who voted in Teso South are more than the number registered with IEBC,&rdquo; Otuoma said in protest.This led to a peaceful demo on Friday that brought business to a standstill.Otuoma has, however, ruled out participating in another nomination. The MP said he would not fall prey to plans by ODM to give the ticket to Ojaamong, adding that the date set for the primaries was suspect. While on a meet-the-people tour of Changara, Nambale, Butula, Omena Beach, Lunyofu and Port Victoria, Otuoma told his supporters he would not be subjected to another primary. &ldquo;The party is scheming to lock me out of the race. We won the nomination in daylight and what we want is our certificate,&rdquo; Otuoma said. The NEB is said to have scheduled fresh nomination for April 25. This has not been supported by a cross section of ODM supporters across the country that suggests the NEB should just rectify the anomalies detected during the nominations.The majority of the voters from the county&rsquo;s seven constituencies say the NEB should not repeat the nominations in Teso North and South constituencies. Otuoma&rsquo;s supporters chanted, &ldquo;No Otuoma, No Raila&rdquo; a signal that they wanted Funyula MP Paul Otuoma to be the next governor of Busia. They even hinted at throwing their weight behind President Uhuru Kenyatta for the presidential race instead of ODM leader Raila, if Otuoma is denied the ticket. This, evidently, risks splitting the party, and undermining the opposition&rsquo;s presidential vote