Jubilee Party gave a direct nomination to incumbent MPs and some preferred aspirants in Kisii and Nyamira counties, despite their having opponents.Aspirants cried foul and condemned the party for not conducting nominations as promised. In Nyamira, governor candidate Charles Mochama protested after learning that governor nomination papers were not delivered. Former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati was given a direct nomination.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what happened ... I&rsquo;m consulting,&rdquo; Mochama told the Star in an SMS.Initially, Mochama was told to step down for Nyambati. He declined even after he was promised nomination to the East African Legislative Assembly.Jubilee Party National Elections Board member Sam Nyangeso said, &ldquo;The party&rsquo;s NEC called the aspirants and interviewed them. Some were asked to step down while others were told to contest using JP affiliated parties.&rdquo;He went on, &ldquo;Dr Erneo Nyakiba agreed to move to the Party of Development while Mochama declined and went on to his campaigns. It is within the JP constitution to ask aspirants to reach consensus instead of going for nominations.&rdquo;In Kisii, some opponents were ready for primaries that were to be conducted on Wednesday.Senator Chris Obure, eyeing the governor seat, Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache North), Zebedeo Opore (Bonchari), Joel Onyancha (Bomachoge Borabu) and Simon Ogari (Bomachoge Chache) were all given direct nomination, despite having competitors.Others given direct tickets are Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti, Kennedy Nyairo (Nyaribari Masaba) and Leonard Mwamba of Kitutu Chache South.Alfred Nyangweso, who was to challenge Obure, faulted the party for not conducting nominations for the governor post.&ldquo;My supporters woke up eagerly waiting to send Obure home. I&rsquo;m surprised that governor ballot papers have not been delivered. I have appealed to the NEB, and I&rsquo;m waiting for communication,&rdquo; Nyangweso said.Former chief Mary Ratemo, who was to contest the JP ticket against Opore, said the party was trying to rig her out of the race.&ldquo;I have never received any communication from the party that nominations for the MP seat were not to be held today. I ask my supporters to remain calm as I wait for communication from Nairobi,&rdquo; Ratemo said at Botoro polling centre.Former Egesa FM presenter Doris Donya, the incumbent Mary Otara and Judith Miruka were fighting it out for the Kisii woman representative post.Rashid Miyonga and Vincent Marube were seeking the South Mugirango parliamentary ticket.In Nyamira, EALA member Joseph Kiangoi was also given direct nomination and his opponent Timothy Rioba cried foul. Borabu MP aspirant Patrick Osero also got a direct ticket.Former nominated MP Catherine Nyamato, Jerusha Momanyi, Josephine Nyarera and Ann Nyaera were on the ballot for the woman representative ticket.In West Mugirango constituency, advocate Charles Ongoto, Ken Achoki and Evans Menge were battling for the parliamentary ticket.Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi was to face Joseph Bogonko, Alfred Ndemo and Ibrahim Ndemo.In Bomachoge Borabu, area MP Joel Onyancha was to fight out with Adams Nyatangi as his Bomachoge Chache counterpart Simon Ogari was to battle it out with advocate Kennedy Nyamweya.