Residents of Kamae and Gathwariga villages in Lari have welcomed relocation of a dispensary from Kamae Forest to Gathwariga trading centre.MP Mburu Kahangara on Wednesday said people had to walk for three kilometers deep into the forest to reach the dispensary, from a flyover on Gatundu road.&ldquo;They risked attacks by wild animals and robbers. They would lose their valuables, cash and mobile phones,&rdquo; Kahangara said.He said expectant mothers had to walk in groups because they feared for their lives. Kahangara said residents also were unable to reach the facility during the rainy seasons because the footpath was unpassable.&ldquo;I was overwhelmed by the troubles residents faced while accessing the hospital. We agreed to relocate the dispensary from the forest and bring it near the residents,&rdquo; he said.The legislator spoke after opening and handing over the new Gathwariga dispensary to Kiambu county government. It was funded by the CDF.It is located at Kinale ward&rsquo;s Gathwariga Grounds, location of the Kamae chief&rsquo;s camp and county government offices. The forest facility was built by the British colonialists more than 70 years ago. It had a camp for forest rangers.After Independence, people were ordered out of the forests, but dispensary still operated.Kahangara said he had trouble building the new dispensary as health services are a county government function. He said the CDF Board at first refused to approve funds to finish the project. But his request was later approved as he started building the facility after he came into office.&ldquo;One year after we were sworn in, all the funds we had requested to do medical projects were not approved. We had to follow up for the projects we had started, like this. The funds were approved after a long time,&rdquo; Kahangara said. He urged residents to judge sitting and aspiring leaders based on their promises and track record.Resident Naomi Kinyua said the dispensary is a milestone in healthcare.&ldquo;These are rural areas. Those who could not travel sought help from private clinics. People feel private clinics are expensive, but we didn&rsquo;t have a choice when one would not access the facility inside the forest,&rdquo; she said. Another hospital built by colonialists is operating in Uplands Forest, Limuru. Residents have to walk for two kilometres for services. Like the one in Kamae Forest, the Uplands Forest Department dispensary is difficult to access. Patients risk being robbed along the way. The nearest bus station is Kwa Afande on the Githunguri-Nyambare road.