Hundred of Nyali residents protested against the decision by the ODM Election Tribunal that recommended a repeat of the Nyali MP nominations.On Wednesday, more than 300 residents converged outside the Mombasa County Assembly and accused ex-TV presenter Mohamed Ali and some top ODM officials in Nairobi of scheming to deny Said Abdalla his hard-earned victory.This followed a petition by Ali, who lost to Abdalla in the Saturday primary. Ali said the exercise was marred by irregularities.He accused Joho, the ODM deputy leader, of favouring Abdalla who is said to be his cousin, adding that the Mombasa governor wants to run the county as a family business by ensuring his relatives and close associates win elective positions on August 8.A five-member tribunal chaired by Willis Otieno on Wednesday said the Nyali poll did not meet the threshold of a free, fair and credible process as envisaged in the ODM constitution and rules. It directed the elections board to reconsider selecting a party candidate for the constituency in a manner consistent with the party rules.The protesters said Abdalla won fair and square and must be allowed to represent them in the National Assembly.Mkomani MCA Kizito Opeya said on Wednesday they will not allow a repeat of the Nyali nomination. &ldquo;The elections were free and fair. Ali should concede defeat or look for another party or go as an independent candidate,&rdquo; he said. Charles Kitula, the winner of the Frere Town ward ODM ticket against incumbent Amir Thoya, said Ali is a spoiler in Mombasa politics. &ldquo;He is just a spoiler in ODM. Abdalla has been campaigning for the past two years, whereas Ali came in just the other day and expects to win. Residents have spoken and their will should be respected,&rdquo; he said. The residents carried placards with harsh messages against Ali. Some described him as a &ldquo;fly-in&rdquo; MP who will be spending most of his time in Nairobi. They said Abdalla was born and raised in Kongowea, whereas Ali is from Nairobi. Other placards read, &lsquo;Hatutaki reporter, twataka kiongozi&rsquo; (We don&rsquo;t want a reporter, but a true leader.