Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked Raila Odinga's ODM party to withdraw its statement on the validity of the NASA flag bearer report. Agnes Zani, who is a Nominated Senator and ODM secretary general, said the report was erroneously leaked to the media but that it was valid. "The report was leaked in the form the media presented. A few aspects and figures were not those of the committee but the line-up presented had been agreed on," she said. More on this: NASA flag bearer report 'accurate', ODM says Also read: It's Raila-Kalonzo! NASA experts say But Kalonzo told journalists on Wednesday: "Zani has to withdraw the remarks publicly. Nothing is [final] until it is agreed upon. We do not have a flag bearer as of now." The Wiper boss said reports on the NASA principal who will take on President Uhuru Kenyatta were still being prepared and that a final decision will be made afterwards. "This (NASA flag bearer issue) will not persist for another month, I assure you. Reports are being prepared and we will take a decision later on the issue," he said. Kalonzo said he did not want to blame anybody but that the National Coordinating Committee should not have leaked the report. "We cannot afford to go that way...there was a tremendous leakage from the technical committee and if they cant guard their secret then they are not loyal." On Tuesday, Amani secretary general Geoffrey Otsotsi said ODM's declaration was "bad manners" and undermined the coalition's unity. Osotsi said Amani was not aware of a formal report authored by the committee for sharing with the four principals on matters flag bearer. "We are outraged - and Zani ought to know - that admission by ODM party that it is responsible for dirty propaganda leaks undermines the credibility and integrity of the NASA process," he said. More on this: Amani slams 'bad mannered' ODM over 'valid' NASA flag bearer report Part of the leaked proposal is to create the position of a chief minister, equivalent to the powerful position of Prime Minister, who will be a first among equals in the NASA Cabinet. The position, to be occupied by Mudavadi, will have sweeping powers to whip the Cabinet and will have an expanded mandate to supervise and coordinate government business. The creation of this position would however neutralise the current powerful position of the National Assembly Majority leader held by Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. The principals, however, have created the leeway to adopt the report the way it is, or introduce amendments that will inform the pre-election coalition agreement.