This Sunday marks the two-year anniversary of the Garissa University College terror attack. On the fateful morning, al-Shabab militants killed 147 people there, most of them students, going into history books as the deadliest terror attack after the 1998 US Embassy bombing in Nairobi, in which more than two hundred people were killed. Since Kenya started experiencing terror attacks of this magnitude, such as the Westgate attack, Mpeketoni, Garissa itself and several others in Northeastern, the government has heightened its preventive measures. Credit to the security forces &mdash; the National Intelligence service, the National Police Service and the Military&mdash; we have not had a major attack since Garissa. However, we continue losing security officers in ambushes and running over IEDs, both in Kenya and inside Somalia. We had the El Adde massacre of January 15 last year and the Kulbiyow attack of January 27. In the later, it is reported 68 soldiers died. Not much is known about the former. The question many ask is whether we have learnt from these tragic experiences.Security forces were severely criticised for their slow response in Garissa, as they were in the previous attacks. It took the Interior ministry, or the Kenya Police Service in this case, at least seven hours to get the specialised Recce Company to Garissa. Before their arrival, police and Military officers stood, cordoning the university, as the militants shot and slaughtered the students.The 18 Recce Squad officers took just 12 minutes to kill the five terrorists.This raised many questions about the level of training of our security forces, especially in the wake of increased terror threat.Ramadhan Rajab, a security writer for this paper, says we have not learnt much. First, since the Westgate attack, no audit or inquiry was done to evaluate how better the response would have been. This is the same case with attacks on Kenyan military camps in Somalia. The Kulbiyow attack was pretty much as El Adde.Speaking to VOA News last year, Interior ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka said deficiencies that were witnessed have been addressed. &ldquo;With the refurbishment of the helicopters and also the ones being bought, it means our paramilitary are able to move within the fastest time. For instance, the reaction time for Garissa University, everybody admits that we didn&rsquo;t move as fast as we should have. But if we had the equipment we have now, we could have been able to get troops there within an hour or else,&rdquo; he said.In terms of hardware, the government has done well. President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled 500 police vehicles, among them 25 Mine Resistant Personnel Carriers and 30 Armoured Personnel Carriers in January this year. In the 2017-18 Budget, Treasury CS Henry Rotich allocated Sh1.8 billion for leasing police vehicles, Sh24.8 billion for police and military modernisation and Sh12 billion for security operations. But war on terror is not just about hardware. Training, as shown in how Recce responded compared to other forces, is very important. We need smart officers who investigate before arresting, not the other way round, as Rajab says, if we are to win this war.Despite unveiling of the APCs, we continue loosing police officers when their Land Cruisers run over IEDs. This was the case on January 28, when two officers were killed when they responded to Kulbiyow attack across the Somali border. Four survived. It was also the case in Lamu, when a RDU lorry run over an IED on January 27, last year. Three officers died.But the resilience is there, and we must appreciate that Garissa University is up and running.