Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko beat Peter Kenneth to win the Nairobi governor race.But this was after spirited attempts to avoid the two going into nominations, and, instead, reach a consesus for Sonko to step down for Kenneth.Various offers, as reported by the media, were made. Sonko was unmoved. Kenneth was largely seen as the preferred candidate by the party officials and top brass in Jubilee for the ticket. He has been linked to 2022 succession politics. So what was the big deal in having Sonko step down for Kenneth?To understand this situation, there is need to delve into the cartelisation of party politics, not only in this country but across the world. In Kenya, we call them vehicles to power. Kanu belonged to President Daniel Moi, PNU belonged Mwai Kibaki, ODM belongs to Raila Odinga, Wiper belongs to Kalonzo Musyoka, TNA was Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s while URP was William Ruto&rsquo;s. These are political cartels that decide who runs and who doesn&rsquo;t, who wins and who loses.For instance, during the infamous Mlolongo queue system of voting in 1988, which the late Mark Too referred as open-air democracy, those with longer queues lost while those with shorter ones won! So bad was it that Kibaki called a press conference after he lost in the nominations and made the infamous jibe at Moi, &ldquo;Even rigging requires a modicum of intelligence.&rdquo;What we saw in the Nairobi primary race is influence from the government, which Richard Katz and Peter Mair explained in their &ldquo;The cartel party thesis: A Restatement&rdquo; research paper. It is a well-documented but then less-known practice of state subventions &mdash; The use of substantial amounts of public money and corporate and individual donations to fund parties.Politics is basically who gets what and how. It is, therefore, common for corporates, business moguls and those in the establishment to fund candidates, parties and their campaigns so that when they get to power, their interests are protected. This is what played out in Jubilee, and there was talk that Kenneth was the Mount Kenya Mafia&rsquo;s project, with plans to not only protect their interests in the city, but also to strategically position him for the 2022 succession.There are those, within the establishment, who felt their interests in property, tender deals and business, whether legal or illegal, were safe in Kenneth&rsquo;s hands. They also thought that even though they are buddies with Sonko, he doesn&rsquo;t have &ldquo;managerial skills&rdquo;. Others felt Sonko is the most popular in Nairobi and best placed to beat incumbent Governor Evans Kidero.It is these two cartels within Jubilee that were fighting each other. The denomination &ldquo;cartel&rdquo; here implies attention to inter-party or system-level dynamics, and, in particular, to a distinction between those players that are &ldquo;within&rdquo; the establishment and those that are excluded from it.To understand how these cartels realigned themselves, it is good to revisit some developments in the recent past. One is the passing of the electoral laws, which was hotly contested in Parliament. Such parties, through their parliamentary majorities, here popularly known as the Tyranny of Numbers, make the rules that favour their own structures and reelection. This was crowned by the muc-publicised dissolution of 12 parties to form the Jubilee Party in September last year.But the formation of what is effectively a cartel, in which participating parties serve their joint interest in providing for their own security and survival, comes with certain challenges. There is fear of competition escalating and breaking up the party. It happened in Narc ahead of the 2005 referendum and the splitting of the initial ODM Kenya soon thereafter. To manage this competition, parties are delegating to &ldquo;non-political&rdquo; agencies with technical and managerial expertise. In Jubilee we have the Secretariat; in NASA, we had the technical committee that recommend the best flagbearer, which happens to be Raila.But cartels face two potential threats. One is defection. Jubilee won&rsquo;t want that at this time. That&rsquo;s why President Uhuru on Thursday urged all those who lost in the primaries to support the party. Second is the ability to disempower party activists or supporters on the ground, who are the ones most likely to make demands inconsistent with the cartel(s). The people wanted Sonko. That was the baseline. Jubilee was where it was in 2013 when it was torn between Ferdinand Waitutu and Jimnah Mbaru. They chose popularity over &lsquo;managerial skills&rsquo;. They lost to Kidero.