Kiambu MP Ann Nyokabi on Tuesday evening was forced to flee furious residents in Juja after she failed to give them cash handouts.Her media adviser Duncan Ndotono said the MP had to escape from Witeithie estate because she feared for her life.Residents said the woman representative kept them waiting for eight hours without food in the hot sun. And then she did not give each of them money.They didn&rsquo;t care that she gave out Sh37 million cheques as loans. Such voter bribery &mdash; giving cash at meetings and rallies &mdash; is common in Kiambu and elsewhere. Those running for office have to give out cash to convince residents to vote for them.Yesterday Nyokabi dismissed the incident as inconsequential, saying she is firmly in control of her grassroots support.Residents had assembled near Witeithie Dam as early as 10am on hearing Nyokabi would give out money.She showed up at 5pm to a warm welcome and was wildly cheered as she spoke. Nyokabi then distributed cheques. The situation deteriorated when she finished and started to leave.Angry residents confronted her, demanding cash. Sensing danger, her guards and aides whisked her away into a waiting car.They sped off as furious residents chased, pounding on the vehicle.The residents condemned her &ldquo;for taking us for a ride&rdquo; and chanted praise of her main rival Gathoni wa Muchomba.&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll get nothing from here. All our votes belong to Gathoni. We want nothing from you. You abandoned us after we elected you even without knowing you,&rdquo; one of them shouted.A 75-year-old man had travelled from Nyacaba, 10km away. He said he regretted voting for Nyokabi in 2013. &ldquo;I came to see her for the first time. She&rsquo;s left us empty-handed. I don&rsquo;t know how I&rsquo;ll travel back home,&rdquo; he said.Resident Ann Wambui said Nyokabi should seek votes from the groups that got the cheques, not from them.Another resident mocked the MP, saying she should rest assured she will be reelected by her bodyguards.&ldquo;We are not thieves. We wonder why the MP left fleeing, instead of talking to us and listening to our grievances. We are now for wa Muchomba,&rdquo; he said. Juja subcounty assistant county commissioner Priscilla Kilitu, chief Muiruri Mucui and his assistants, Witeithie AP camp commandant John Kamau and four AP officers were unprepared for the drama and violence.Some youths jumped onto Kilitu&rsquo;s Land Cruiser. AP officers cocked their guns to scare them away and protect Kilitu. Earlier at the meeting, Kilitu had urged the residents to shun violence. She urged them to be tolerant and promote peace and harmony.