There was commotion at the three polling stations in Kongowea ward, Nyali constituency after the names of Jubilee aspirants were missing from the party register.Nyali MP aspirant Yasir Noor, whose name was missing at the Kongowea Social Hall where he had gone to vote, said he is a victim of some sinister moves by some unnamed party officials."This is not right. How can my name be missing yet we were told all is well? There is an ulterior motive in this" Noor, who resigned from KCC board to seek the post, said.Voting had not started by 12.30pm. It was to start at 7am.Kongowea MCA hopeful Hassan Mwachatama argues with Kongowea Social Hall presiding officer Mark Gwantai on Wednesday. /BRIAN OTIENOSureya Hersi, county elections board chair, on Tuesday said the party had made all the necessary arrangements for the polls.Voting delayed for more than three hours at the Methodist Church polling station after the church refused to let the party use its compound.The team manning the primaries changed the venue to a nearby football ground that lacked tents and chairs.Kongowea MCA hopeful Saad Abubakar at the Methodist Church polling station in Kongowea ward, Nyali constituency. /BRIAN OTIENOAspirants had to make arrangements to have desks brought from different places.Voting eventually started at around 10.30am but was stopped about 20 minutes later.Party members failed to agree on the registers to be used in identifying voters.Initially, they had agreed to use only ID cards to vote but some aspirants later complained it would open the system to rigging.Presiding officer Veronica Gathoni appeared overwhelmed by the matter.A poling clerk shows an empty ballot box to Jubilee members at the Kongowea Social Hall polling station in Kongwea ward, Nyali constituency. /BRIAN OTIENOShe said: "Voting materials had arrived as early as 8am but the venue stand-off had caused the delay."Kongowea MCA aspirants had to beg their supporters to stay at the three polling stations after they threatened to boycott the exercise.They said they had left their workplaces to nominate their preferred candidates only for the party officials to &lsquo;waste&rsquo; them through their &lsquo;incompetences&rsquo;."This is a joke. Jubilee is the government. Small issues like these should not be seen. This is what makes us want to go back to our wives and make good use of our time with them instead of voting," Maleyi Juma said.The angry aspirants, including Hassan Mwachatama and Saad Abubakar, accused the party of failing them."It is 10am and voting has not started. We are told the voting materials are yet to arrive. Our supporters are threatening to leave. This is what may bring problems," Mwachatama said at the Kongowea Social Hall polling station.Mwachatama and another aspirant Hussein Swaleh stirred unrest at the station after realising their names were missing in the register."What is this? What are they planning?"Jubilee members queue as they wait to vote at the Kongowea Social Hall polling station in Kongwea ward, Nyali constituency. /BRIAN OTIENOSwaleh threatened to boycott the primaries altogether.Saad told journalists he had to beg supporters to stay at the Methodist Church polling station."I am glad my supporters understand. Otherwise, they would have messed me up, these poor preparations," he said.Mark Gwantai, a presiding officer at Kongowea Social Hall, told all the 12 aspirants to be patient as they consulted with their seniors at the party headquarters.All the aspirants&rsquo; names were on the ballot papers but some were missing in the register.Noor said only his strongholds had such problems."Even if it were you, how would you have taken this issue? Isn&rsquo;t it rigging?" he asked.Jubilee&rsquo;s Mombasa coordinator Beatrice Gambo said she would resolve the issues raised by the aspirants.Read; Nyali MP hopeful wants law for nomination fee refunds to 'shortchanged' aspirants