ODM aspirants are keenly disappointed that influential Homa Bay politican Gladys Wanga is remaining neutral and will not campaign for them in primaries.Wanga was handed a direct ticket to defend the woman representative seat. And that could influence politics in the region. Primaries will be on April 19.Wanga has also been picked to join ODM leader and NASA principal Raila Odinga&rsquo;s presidential campaign team. She joins six governors, also on Raila&rsquo;s team, who received direct nominations on Monday.Wanga, playing a pivotal role in ODM national and county politics, is remaining neutral in Homa Bay politics before the primaries. Before getting the direct ticket, Wanga had promised she will be impartial. She said she would work with whoever was elected by ODM supporters. The woman rep is also Homa Bay ODM chairperson. In 2007, Wanga teamed up with Governor Cyprian Awiti and Senator Otieno Kajwang&rsquo; and they managed to clinch ODM tickets.Wanga became influential during Senate by-elections held after the death of Kajwang&rsquo;. Together with Awiti and Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, among other party loyalists, they pushed for Moses Kajwang&rsquo; to take over the seat from his brother.However, at the moment, it is believed she has fallen out with Awiti after the Homa Bay branch party elections were concluded.Wanga was competing with Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma for the ODM county chairperson&rsquo;s seat.Awiti and county executives supported Kaluma. Wanga joined Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga who was running against Deputy Governor Hammilton Orata for secretary. Team Wanga emerged the winner after flooring the Awiti-led team. It is believed that was the origin of their differences. Odinga, however, intervened and reconciled the two factions.Some candidates have already formed campaign teams. However, the absence of Wanga is being felt.But she is busy implementing various projects she initiated, especially those benefitting women.Governor Awiti has picked his deputy Orata as his running mate, while Samuel Wakiaga&rsquo;s will be Jeremiah Okoth. Orata and Okoth hail from Ndhiwa.Other governor aspirants yet to select running mates include Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Enosh Bolo and Cosmas Kanyadudi. Kajwang&rsquo; and Fred Rabongo are the only ODM Senate aspirants.Bunge la Wenyenchi speaker Walter Opiyo said Wanga&rsquo;s absence is a blow to whichever team she might have teamed up with.He says the woman representative enjoys massive support in the county, especially from women and youths due to many projects she has initiated.&ldquo;The person who could have teamed up with Wanga could have had an advantage over the aspiring candidates due to her popularity,&rdquo; Opiyo said.&ldquo;However, giving her a direct ticket is an advantage to Homa Bay people. Let all aspirants use their past achievements and manifestos to persuade voters. They should not take advantage of someone else&rsquo;s work to gain support,&rdquo; he said.Opiyo, however, said it will be hard for Awiti who had the support of Wanga and Magwanga in the last primaries. Magwanga has turned against Awiti.Awiti is supported by Karachunyo constituency while Magwanga commands a following in Kasipul and Kabondo Kasipul regions. Wakiaga has support in- Suba. The five aspirants will however scramble for votes in Homa Bay town, Rangwe and Ndhiwa. Opiyo said it will not be easy for Suba region to bag the governor and senate seats considering the regional balance.