GETTING THEREThere are various domestic flights to choose from so look around online and make your selection as desired. The hotel organised boat transfers for me and I was therefore greeted at Manda Airport by their steward who helped carry my luggage- a collection of luxury African dresses from www.ichyulu.com- to the speedboat, from where we took about 30 minutes to get to the property from the jetty.SLEEPThe resort is sprawled across three separate and spacious villas upon which 25 well appointed suites sit. I stayed in room number 4 which is located at the villa right next to the Pool Bar. The air conditioned room featured large windows to allow natural lighting, a comfortable canopy bed, work desk, large wooden cupboard with ornate carvings along the edges, a refrigerator, safe and more. I missed the sunrise (chalk that up to a super late night swim at the second pool in the resort and the aforementioned comfortable bed) but stepping out onto my spacious balcony at around 8:30am, I was treated to an incredible panoramic view of the pool area with its pretty bougainvillea flowers, and further beyond, fishermen&rsquo;s boats as they gently sailed along the azure blue bay bringing in the day&rsquo;s fresh catch to the chef. EATThe open plan restaurant with a traditional makuti roof features the finest in Italian and international cuisine including Swahili classics and fresh seafood, and is open to both residents and the public so you can still pop in for lunch regardless of where you are staying in Lamu. I love a breakfast with a view, and tucking into my a la carte classic English breakfast overlooking the gorgeous beach and Ras Kitau Bay was certainly an experience I relished. I absolutely love tuna and would therefore recommend the tuna tartar or smoked yellowfin tuna which I had for lunch with a side of roast potatoes coupled with the resort&rsquo;s excellent signature Majlis cocktail, enjoyed from the terrace on the first floor. If desired, dinner can be quite the romantic al fresco affair under a twinkling blanket of stars.ACTIVITIESThe Majlis Resort has a watersport center complete with the necessary equipment to suit a variety of watersports such as kitesurfing, fishing, snorkeling and windsurfing. There is also an outdoor gym and a secluded yoga center to ensure you don&rsquo;t miss your workouts just because you&rsquo;re on vacation. Being an avid lover of vinyasa, I called in an instructor from Shela to come and take me through a 1 hour power yoga session by the beach which is an excellent activity to consider.WEBSITE: WWW.THEMAJLISRESORTS.COMCALL: +254 773 777 066EMAIL: WELCOME@THEMAJLISRESORTS.COM