ODM is gearing up for primaries tomorrow in Nyamira county amid concerns the drive could be a repeat of the shambolic Busia primaries.Voting is for governor and West Mugirango MP.Governor John Nyagarama will face West Mugirango MP James Gesami and debutante John Kumenda. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want a repeat of what happened in Busia on Thursday. I hope the National Elections Board is ready for free and credible nominations,&rdquo; Gesami told the Star on Saturday.Gesami said, &ldquo;We have heard rumours the officials employed are allied to a certain candidate, but NEB knows the consequences of shambolic nomination.&rdquo;Gesami and Kumenda separately claimed the choice of polling stations was made to favour a particular aspirant and called for calm. &ldquo;Party leader Raila Odinga promised us the nominations will be free and fair and we expect nothing less,&rdquo; Kumenda said.Analysts say it&rsquo;s a a two-horse race between Gesami and Nyagarama.Nyagarama wants party members to conduct the nominations, while Gesami says the party should use universal suffrage, alleging the party membership list may be manipulated.The governor has been under fire over the use of civil servants in his campaigns.In West Mugirango, former Knut official Julius Matwere, Peter Omboga, Dennis Anyoka and Polycarp Orero are seeking the ODM ticket.The party issued tickets to unopposed aspirants Okong&rsquo;o Omogeni (Senate), Alice Chae (woman representative), Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Charles Geni (North Mugirango) and Nyandoro Kambi (Borabu). Geni and Bosire are incumbent MPs.On Saturday, Geni petitioned Raila to take charge of nominations to ensure unpopular candidates are not nominated through unfair means.He expressed concern shambolic nominations may cost the party in the August 8 polls.Geni claimed that some incumbent governors may bribe election officials to get the party tickets. &ldquo;Busia is a classic example, where the incumbent used his position to influence the outcome. I&rsquo;m warning that any effort to pull the Busia tricks here will be rejected. The NEB took a bold step to cancel the results. We don&rsquo;t want that to happen in Nyamira,&rdquo; the MP said.Geni backed the use of the IEBC register in the nominations. Nyamira county commissioner Joseph Kirui on Thursday met ODM aspirants and warned them against violence during the nominations. &ldquo;We have agreed they should conduct themselves peacefully before, during and after nominations,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The party&rsquo;s nominations rules and regulations are very clear and should be followed to the letter.&rdquo;