Some ODM enthusiasts are celebrating the attack on nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura (pictured). They are retaliating for an alleged verbal assault on their party boss by Mwaura, who has branded ODM the party of violence. Mwaura said he was shot at on Tuesday and his ear was injured. He also said his car was sprayed with bullets. Immediately his timeline on Facebook was awash with comments. Some consoled him but many ridiculed him for allegedly &ldquo;biting the finger that fed him&rdquo;. One of the comments read, &ldquo;At least I&rsquo;m sure in Jubilee it is by bullet, not ballot. If you survive the bullet, you lose an organ.&rdquo; Mwaura, nominated to Parliament by ODM after officially serving as adviser in Raila Odinga&rsquo;s office for five years, accuses the former PM of misusing the youth. Mwaura was partly blamed for triggering violence that disrupted the ODM party elections in 2014.***** Two General Service Unit officers manning the British High Commission on Lower Upper Hill Road have become a menace to motorists. The two officers from Nyanza region have turned the roadblock near the High Commission entrance into a cash cow. Motorists describe them as rogue and too dangerous. They say the officers stop motorists and accuse them of making wrong turns at the junction of Lower Upper Hill and Haile Selassie Avenue. Then they ask them to pay a fine of not less than Sh1,000 before they are released. The officers tell motorists who attempt to protest to report where they wish, as the boss is almost retiring and cannot do much.***** A senior officer at City Hall is the talk of town for having an insatiable appetite for women. According to our mole at City Hall, the officer has been spotted in various city hotels with new young beauties. The man, who heads a powerful docket, was last week seen entering a famous high-end brothel on Ngong Road.***** Still on matters City Hall, it is said that officers in the Parking department and Inspectorate department are on a harvesting spree. Sources say they are embezzling millions of shillings in the form of fake payment receipts for parking attendants on some streets, especially in down town. Several parking attendants, who are not part of the cartel, want the EACC to rein in the officers and stop the looting.