A tough battle awaits some Jubilee and NASA candidates - especially in swing vote areas - despite clinching party tickets in the nominations.Candidates in at least 10 battlegrounds of the two coalitions have a hurdle to secure the seats compared to their counterparts in Jubilee Party and NASA strongholds foreseeing unopposed win.Some candidates with NASA and JP tickets from their respective strongholds have a mountain to climb by challenging opponents in parties affiliated to their camps.Nairobi, Kajiado, Narok, Mandera, Garissa, Samburu, Marsabit, Isiolo and Trans Nzoia are battlegrounds President Uhuru Kenyatta and his rival Raila Odinga&rsquo;s camps have mapped to add more seats and votes to their solid strongholds.A fierce face-off is particularly expected in Nairobi because each camp is keen on taking control of the county government and having more than 10 seats of the 17 constituencies.Each coalition wants to dominate elective seats in the city to enjoy both political and economic influence.NASA flagbearer Raila (ODM), his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), two co-principals Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) have failed to strike a deal on fielding a joint candidate in some city constituencies to win more seats than JP.Raila in January said ODM managed to win only eight seats in 2013 against Uhuru&rsquo;s TNA that secured nine because Cord affiliate parties such as Wiper split votes by fielding candidates against each other.Constituencies Cord fielded separate aspirants include Kamukunji, Embakasi North, Embakasi West, Kasarani, Makadara and Starehe.&ldquo;This is a life-and-death battle. Nairobi is the thermometer of the country&rsquo;s politics. Since we won the governor seat, we must capitalise on that and get as many others as possible. Aspirants must be ready to support winners in the nominations,&rdquo; Raila told ODM aspirants at Nyayo Stadium.Wiper chairman Roy Kivusyu disclosed bureaucracy and supremacy wars among NASA parties have impeded talks to jointly select and field candidates.Kalonzo, however, insisted that, &ldquo;We are mapping where Wiper is strong to field candidates and agree with other NASA leaders. In 2013, we only managed two MCA seats, now we are targeting at least 20.&rdquo;Deputy President William Ruto also in January met Nairobi Jubilee lawmakers and aspirants and told them to consider a consensus for hotly contested seats in picking a preferrable candidate to defeat a NASA rival. He also asked them remain united after nominations for the party to clinch all seats. Stiff competition for the coveted Nairobi governor seat is between the incumbent Evans Kidero and Senator Mike Sonko who secured the JP ticket after trouncing his rival and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth in nominations. Sonko garnered 138,185 votes against Kenneth&rsquo;s 62,504.&ldquo;I am not surprised. All along we knew Sonko was going to be our competitor,&rdquo; Kidero said.ODM gave Kidero a direct ticket to defend his seat. The party will tomorrow conduct its nominations in Nairobi.