The Capital Markets Authority&rsquo;s plan to grow listed companies to 100 has suffered a setback after motor vehicle dealer Marshalls East Africa yesterday proposed to delist in June. The loss-making firm said its board has resolved to return the company&rsquo;s entire shareholding to private hands to help it return to profitability. The proposal is subject to shareholders&rsquo; approval at an extra-ordinary general meeting on May 8 and later by the CMA, the regulator. If successful, Marshalls will join three other firms which have stopped trading on the Nairobi Securities Exchange this decade in favour of private holding.The three are auto dealer CMC Holdings which was bought by Al Futtaim of Dubai in 2015, Access Kenya which was acquired by South Africa&rsquo;s Dimension Data in January 2014 and Rea Vipingo. &ldquo;The delisting will provide the company with the time and flexibility to reorganise its business effectively,&rdquo; Marshalls chair Fred Amayo said in a circular to investors. &ldquo;The company will also benefit from the reduced costs which are associated with maintaining a listing on the NSE.&rdquo; The company has struggled since 2007 when it lost the lucrative franchise deal for France car maker Peugeot. It subsequently lost the distributorship contract for India&rsquo;s Tata, leaving it only with Kia Motors &ndash; South Korea&rsquo;s second largest car maker. &ldquo;Over the past few years, Marshalls has experienced a deteriorating business environment due to the influx of second hand cars and increased competition,&rdquo; the company said. &ldquo;As a result, Marshalls has declared losses for a number years.&rdquo; Global Ltd, the majority shareholder in the company with a 13.9 per cent stake, has offered to buyout minority shareholders who hold about 16.86 per cent stake. Global Ltd is offering to buy the shares at Sh10.75 per unit, a price Marshalls said was a 25 per cent premium on average share price in six months to March 30. The delisting will be subject to at least 75 per cent approval by shareholders. The minority shareholders will have between May 10 and June 7 to accept or reject the offer from Global Ltd. The outcome of the offer will be submitted to the CMA on June 9, and made public three days later, according to the schedule Marshalls provided. This will result in delisting on June 19.