Possessed by grief, Abdul Hamid al-Yousef weeps uncontrollably over the graves of his dead wife and nine-month-old twin children. 'My children. My children. They were beautiful,' the widower screams in distressing footage of his visit to the makeshift burial site where his partner Dalal and children, Ahmed and Aya, were laid to rest.Abdul's friends have to hoist him to his feet and wipe his nose as he sobs over the dusty patch of land in the besieged town of Khan Sheikhoun, in the rebel-held Idlib province.His young family was torn apart by a suspected sarin chemical gas attack and subsequent bombing raids on the rural village, blamed on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, which killed more than 80 people including at least 30 children.Heartbreaking images showed him cradling his babies in the crook of his arm, stroking their heads as he whispered: 'Say goodbye, baby. Say goodbye.'Abdul has now revealed in explicit detail how his relatives' homes were flattened by a series of suspected Syrian airstrikes - and the agonising moment he discovered his wife and children had died from chemical poisoning. 'I didn't think to go back to see my children. I helped the people around me then got in the car and went to my parent's home.'The whole family was sleeping,' said Abdul, who lost 19 members of his family in the onslaught. 'I woke up to the sound of the first strike. 'It was next to my house. I got my children and my wife but we didn't know there was Sarin or any kind of gas at the time,' he revealed in an interview on YouTube.'Five minutes later there was a second strike. I looked and saw the it hit my parent's house. Another five minutes later and this time it hit our relatives, my uncle's house.''I didn't know what I was supposed to do. I gave my children to my wife and told them to go hide.'He noticed his wife and children were beginning to fall ill but, thinking nothing of it, the courageous father took them to a paramedic before scrambling from house to house to pull victims from the wreckage.As he and other rescuers dragged people from their homes, they noticed a strange odour and soon began to succumb to the effects of what is believed to be the deadly nerve agent sarin dropped from Syrian government jets.'This is when the sarin gas started taking effect,' he said. 'I put some cloth in my hand and started beathing through it.''As soon as I got there I saw my older brother, Yasser. He was dead. He was holding his son, his little one Amar. They were both dead. Right on top of each other.'