Analysing Kenya&rsquo;s election cycle from 2002, one can come up with a definite pattern. In 2002, the majority in this country joined hands for change. This is what brought Kenyans together to end President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s 24-year rule. Decades of the Kanu &lsquo;error&rsquo; had reduced the nation to a playground of the elites. An elite then was someone with unfettered access to the government machine. Stand-alone businesspeople and civic leaders had no chance in the years preceding 2002. One had to have clear links with state brokers. Anything contrary to the system would lead one into a losing battle with the political sharks, all using state resources to crush any opposition. You only need to scrutinise the rapid rise of Deputy William Ruto to understand this.Look at it this way: If someone stood on the Kanu ticket, that was an absolute win. The ruling party being on your side, a candidate had access to the state machine and resources such as chiefs as in your campaigns. The opponent, on the other hand, only claims victory based on ideologies. The state-backed will therefore easily floor the other aspirant. This is part of the reason why so many politicians were untouchables at that time. Add that to the vast personal wealth that enabled them to buyout all opinion leaders and see why change has taken decadess to be effected in this country. The citizenry was still in political hibernation, and very few understood the deep political theatrics.The 2007 General Election was purely about alignments. If you were in an ODM zone, work around nominations and win, and you had the seat. The same applied in PNU zones. It is in this election that politicians attached a very high premium on party nominations, and close association with the respective party presidential candidates. The Grand Coalition government happened and with it came high-value projects. The stakes were getting higher. In 2013, no one wanted to leave anything to chance. Still, the self-awareness of the voter is still at infancy level. The electorate was introduced to high-octane politics. It was ODM &mdash; with an incumbent Prime Minister, thus enjoying the state machine &mdash;on one end against TNA and URP&rsquo;s (Jubilee Coalition) pure flamboyance. Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto were not taking any chances, seeing that a loss meant unstable times due to their ICC cases. The highest-end branding techniques were unveiled, the buyout of politicians sustained and sponsorship of popular candidates initiated. The parties were ready to back up their candidates. Again, this unexpected ambush overwhelmed the voters, and many were elected only because they were in the &ldquo;right parties&rdquo;. Citizens did not take the slightest time in screening aspirants.The last four years, however, have served the most profound change on voters. One, the corruption in shocking proportions has made the common mwananchi lose hope in the incumbents. Many agree that all politicians are manufactured from the same cloth, and money coupled with flamboyance will not change the state of matters in this country. The electorate remembers the vote buyout of 2013, and is now confident that this is not the way to go. Busybodies masquerading as opinion leaders no longer hold sway beyond the confirmed members of their talk shops. Renting crowds is still a common feature. In fact, people mobilisation is turning out to be the most expensive exercise for politicians. Imagine organising a meeting of 500 voters, and each demands &lsquo;something&rsquo;? That is only a meeting. This strategy has worked in the past, and is the reason moneyed politicians thought they would carry the day. The voter has, however, profiled that tactic. They will take the money and vote where their mind is. Two, devolution has woken voters up on matters leadership in a strange but useful way. Everyone now knows how to spot or trace failure from leaders. This is the reason why many incumbents across they country, including the so-called political heavyweights, are going home. The health function, for example, rests with the governors, implying that when the mwananchi can&rsquo;t access or get quality services, they know the blame lies on the county officials, who technically live within that area. This way, if one has failed during their term, they will not have a conviction point to raise with their voters.Fellow citizens, let us now toast and make merry as we celebrate the sighting of the sun at 5am, and, hopefully, when the light is in at 7am, we will wake up to the sight of new things. For behold, the voter is reborn. It is no longer business as usual and politicians now know who is the boss.Mwangi comments on political issues