Jubilee Mombasa governor hopeful Suleiman Shahbal and his running mate, Ananiah Mwaboza, are missing in action, barely four months to the poll, while their opponents are covering ground.The two have not been seen campaigning or holding functions for about a month, after President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto left the coastal town.They only popped up in a low-key function on Sunday.The pair is often criticised for being active only a few days before Uhuru visits, then fizzling out.But analysts attribute lack of vigour in the JP campaigns to, supposedly, wider plans by Shahbal to get a CS post if Jubilee wins.For Mwaboza, it is said the public servant leash, which restraints him from campaigning before resigning, is chocking him.Political analysts say they are not active because they lack conviction and know winning will be a tall order.&ldquo;They often say if they don&rsquo;t get the seat, they will be appointed. NASA sees it as make or break thing and that&rsquo;s why they are all over,&rdquo; Philip Kaulu of the Technical University of Mombasa said on Sunday.Jubilee said it will reward losers with jobs and this is blamed for laxity in some regions, including Mombasa.Shahbal is said to be following Tourism CS Najib Balala&rsquo;s 2013 path, while using the governor contest as a smokescreen and stepping stone. Balala, under then-Republican Congress, run for senator and lost. He was appointed CS.Mwaboza is Ruto&rsquo;s legal advisor and it may be argued he can&rsquo;t engage in active politics until he tenders his resignation.However, this ground can be dismissed because CSs Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution), Eugene Wamalwa (Water) and Joseph Nkaissery (Interior) are among many public servants busy campaigning for Jubilee.&ldquo;People entrusted with Jubilee leadership at the entire Coast may not be sincere. They may not launch serious campaigns,&rdquo; Kaulu said.However, other observers attribute their approach to animosity and mistrust that runs deep in the JP team.Prior to their coming together, apparently midwifed by UhuRuto, Shahbal and Mwaboza did not see eye-to-eye. Their supporters traded barbs. Up to now, there are jitters between them.But Mwaboza on Sunday disputed their inaction, saying they do not enjoy media publicity. He said they are preoccupied with a secret, door-to-door tactic, and will take the opposition by surprise come August 8.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re deep into the people. We&rsquo;re not interested in flashy campaigns. We are from a townhall meeting in Jomvu right now. About 300 people attended,&rdquo; Mwaboza said on the phone.He said they will fire up once nominations are over and when they have a proper line-up.&ldquo;For now, we have many aspirants, not candidates. By April 21, we&rsquo;ll know whom we are working with. That is when we will have a clear roadmap and launch electric campaigns,&rdquo; the former Kisauni MP said.Unlike Jubilee, other parties intending to win or retain the governor seat, are aggressively campaigning, further narrowing JP&rsquo;s chances.Incumbent Hassan Joho of ODM has met many groups, including people living with disability. He has issued driving licences to youths trained by the county government.Joho wants their support. He recently held a mammoth rally in Tononoka Grounds dubbed the Pwani Declaration. It culminated into Coast ODM tours.Wiper&rsquo;s Hassan Omar has been holding press conferences blasting and bashing opponents. He is trying to set himself at vantage point by projecting himself as the county&rsquo;s saviour, saying he will account for every coin spent from public coffers.Another rough-riding hopeful is Nyali MP Hezron Awiti. He has holding activities and meetings almost daily. Awiti and his running mate, Hassan Mwamtoa, traverse the county, popularising Vibrant Democratic Party and their joint ticket.Meantime, Jubilee is nowhere to be seen, only being felt fighting itself and putting out self-lit fire. Its team is fighting over establishment of regional office. Shahbal and Mwaboza last addressed a press conference when they tried to justify Uhuru&rsquo;s claim that the county has received Sh40 billion from National Treasury. They put it at Sh43 billion.This backfired almost immediately. Records showed the county received about Sh21 billion. A few days later, Mwaboza dropped a bombshell, saying Joho forged KCSE certificate to gain admission to the University of Nairobi. Since then, residents hardly hear about them.