I came to Nanyuki in 2009 for internship at Sportsman&rsquo;s Arms Hotel, at the time, a second-year student in the university. After the three-month, internship I was lucky to be guaranteed part-time employment when I proceeded for holidays to work as a receptionist at the all-time busy haven situated at the base of the second highest mountain in Africa, Mt Kenya. I graduated from Kenyatta University with a Bachelor&rsquo;s degree in hospitality and tourism management in 2011 and was immediately promoted to supervise the front office operations.I left the hotel industry and joined the NGO world in 2012, when I was taken up by Mpala Research Centre, where I work to date as the logistics manager.I'm also enrolled for a Master's degree in tourism management at Kenyatta University and in my last year of study.6AMI wake up, pray, jog and shower. I do not take breakfast.7AMI catch the bus and psychologically prepare myself for the 43km journey to work, seldom driving myself. Halfway there, the tarmac road comes to an abrupt end, marking the start of murram and bushy environment. Phone signal fades away and ranches beautify this side of the country, sometimes the bus having to slow down to avoid running over a tortoise crossing the way. Most of time, the bus comes to a complete halt to give way to a herd of elephants, a matriarch leading the way and watching over to ensure the whole family is out of harm. Some photo taking marks these scenic encounters with the wildlife, smartphones play a big role here. We continue with the journey and get to our workplace after a close to one-and-a-half hour drive, a compulsory morning game drive, we call it.8AMI get to the Mpala, join the resident researchers and guests for breakfast as we chat on the progress of their work. We have a 30-minute briefing to establish what needs to be done for the day, after which I prepare my daily schedule and conduct my morning routine checks.10AMI take brunch then have client meetings, check and respond to emails. I mostly have lunch at our open, breezy dining area or have it on the go. It&rsquo;s usually local and international cuisines alternatively.2PMMy afternoon is characterised by facilities visit; the Ewaso Nyiro river camp and the Mpala Ranch house- an old farm house which still has its ancient setting and arctechtural embedded which is well marked with wooded cart wheel as windows. I get back to the office at 4pm and prepare to close the day.5PMThe bus hoots to signal that it is time to leave for home. The journey is as adventurous as the morning one this being an evening game drive. We get home around 6.30pm and prepare early dinner usually a light meal like rice and vegetables to be able to retire early, I watch the television to get a grip of what unfolded during the day, then check and reply emails and retire, tomorrow is another day.