Hosts Nairobi School succumbed to 31-0 defeat against Laiser Hill as the national secondary schools games entered Day 2 yesterday. The 2015 champions, under the tutelage of Kelvin Wambua, opened the scoring charts in the 24th minute with Gregory Simiyu breaking past the hosts&rsquo; defence to score the first try, which Johnstone Olindi failed to convert. However, Olindi redeemed himself with a try and successfully convert it in the 47th minute. Olindi was on the mark again with another try in the 50th minute and made no mistake with the conversion.A bad tackle from laiser Hill&rsquo;s Joel Yazusa in the 52nd minute was met with an ugly response from the hosts, prompting a two-minute physical exchange. However, after consultations the referee suspended Paul Okwemba of Nairobi School and his Laiser Hill counterpart Joel Yazusa for 10 minutes. Billy Kipchirchir cemented Laiser Hill&rsquo;s win in the 57th minute with a touch down before making a cool conversion.In another encounter, the 2013 national champions Kakamega High handed newcomers and Coast regional champs Galana a shocking 65-0 defeat; locking the Kilifi-based school out of the race. Brian Sifuna raced past the Odima Jerim&rsquo;s boys with only eight minutes on the clock to score a try which Timothy Omela duly converted. Derrick Ashiundu another try a minute later albeit he got the conversion wrong.Eugene Sifuna completed a try in the 21st minute and lost his conversion. Kakamega captain, Frankline Shiveka, scored a try in the dying minutes of the first half before Timothy Omela wasted the conversion. Upon resumption, Kelvin Imani extended Kakamega&rsquo;s win with a touch down and Ashiundu made no blunder with the conversion. Omela ensured his name was on the score-sheet with a 47th minute try with Ashiundu making the conversion.Six minutes later, Ashiundu scored another try for Kakamega but missed the conversion. Bramwel Sifuna ran past the opponents to complete his try in the 52nd minute and Ashiundu once again wasted the conversion kick. Ashiundu completed a double in the 58th and 62nd minute with Omela getting one conversion right. Galana are yet to score a point in this competition as they lost their opening match to Laiser 61-0.