When we hear nuclear, the first thing that comes to most Kenyans&rsquo; minds is a nuclear bomb and the nuclear warfare, which involves military conflict.The world&rsquo;s superpowers are renowned for equipping themselves with ballistic missiles as part of the nuclear warfare, a political strategy in which nuclear weaponry is used to inflict damage on the enemy.The latest incident to hit the headlines is the North Korea nuclear programme, which has rattled the US and China, forcing them to pledge cooperation amid what they term a &ldquo;North Korea threat&rdquo;.The destructive part of nuclear warfare has long been related to nuclear energy, so as the government mulls over constructing the first plant in the country by 2027, it sends chills down the spines of many Kenyans.However, nuclear energy is safe as opposed to nuclear bombs. Though the chain reactions process used in nuclear reactors and nuclear bombs both release a vast amount of energy, nuclear power plants are safe.A nuclear power plant or nuclear power station is a thermal power station in which the heat source is a nuclear reactor. As is typical in all conventional thermal power stations, the heat is used to generate steam, which drives a steam turbine connected to an electric generator that produces electricity.A nuclear reactor works by using the energy that is released when the nucleus of a heavy atom splits. That process is called fission.In a nuclear bomb there, is a nuclear device with massive destructive power coming from uncontrolled fusion and fission reactions. The fusion and fission processes generate a tremendous amount of energy.In reactors, fission occurs when uranium atoms are hit by slow-moving neutrons. Absorbing these excess neutrons sometimes causes the atoms to break apart. As the nucleus splits, it releases energy, in the form of heat. In a boiling water reactor, this heat becomes steam, which drives turbines to generate the electricity.&ldquo;The way the energy is controlled and utilised is different in both cases,&rdquo; Rosatom sub-Saharan Africa vice president Voktor Polikarpov says. &ldquo;In nuclear reactors, the reaction is moderated and controlled in a closely monitored procedure. In nuclear bombs, the reaction is uncontrolled.&rdquo;SAFETY CONCERNSThe Energy ministry has predicted that Kenya will require 30,000MW by 2030. The current generation capacity is 2,250 megawatts against a demand of 1,640MW. Kenya&rsquo;s installed capacity stands at 2,327MW. The country currently relies mainly on renewable energy.Latest data from Kenya Power shows the country&rsquo;s energy mix was made up of 41 per cent hydro, 13 per cent thermal and 40 per cent geothermal as at the end of December last year. Other sources are wind and solar.Vision 2030 pegs industrial growth on reliable and affordable energy. To achieve this, the country is eyeing a 1,000MW nuclear plant, expected to be commissioned in 2027.Energy CS Charles Keter said there is growing demand for electricity, which will not be sustained by the current renewable sources in the near future.&ldquo;We will require 30,000MW by 2030. The potential for geothermal will be 15,000MW, while thermal capacity will be 1,000MW. Together with other renewable energy sources, we will have 20,000 megawatts,&rdquo; Keter said at the recent Kenya Nuclear Energy Regional Conference in Nairobi.Questions linger around the safety of nuclear energy, while some Kenyans wonder if the country really needs a nuclear plant. Environmental lobby groups are giving mixed reactions as everyone tries to interpret the nuclear energy.However, the Kenya Nuclear Electricity Board is putting up measures to achieve the dream.Experts at the state corporation have argued that Kenya is not new to the nuclear component, saying the &ldquo;myths&rdquo; around nuclear should not create fear among Kenyans. Kenya has an existing legal and regulatory framework covering radiation sources in agriculture, medicine, industry and research, recognised by the International Atomic Energy Agency.Kneb board member Joseph Odhiambo says this framework makes it easier for the country to handle a nuclear energy plant.&ldquo;Nuclear power generation facilities are safe. There are a lot of myths, fears and misconceptions but these plants are safe. They are well protected in places where people live,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;A nuclear power plant is constructed with inherent safety and multiple barriers that curb radiation leakages.&rdquo;Kneb technical affairs acting director Winnie Ndubai says the country has managed nuclear activities around medical radiation and nuclear medicine.&ldquo;This should give Kenya confidence,&rdquo; she said.INFRASTRUCTURE REVIEWIn 2015, Kenya began an infrastructure review for the country&rsquo;s nuclear power plant.After Kenya announced its plans in September 2010, 11 experts, led by the International Atomic Energy Agency, visited the country on August 25, 2015, for a nine-day mission to determine viability of the project.In April 2016, the IAEA delivered the final report from its Integrated Nuclear Infrastructure Review (INIR) mission, to the government, recommending improvement in at least 15 areas.The report concluded that Kenya is &ldquo;making notable progress in developing the infrastructure needed to make a knowledgeable decision to embark on a nuclear power programme&rdquo;.In a meeting with Mining CS Dan Kazungu and other high-level government officials, IAEA deputy director general and head of the department of nuclear energy Mikhail Chudakov acknowledged Kenya&rsquo;s transparency and cooperation throughout the INIR mission&ldquo;A major task in the coming years will be to complete the establishment of key goals and requirements to guide the nuclear power programme,&rdquo; Chudakov said. This includes areas such as the nuclear fuel cycle, radioactive waste management, industrial involvement and nuclear power plant ownership and financing. &ldquo;The main recommendations in the INIR mission report point out that Kenya should further develop its legal and regulatory framework for the nuclear power programme,&rdquo; he said.According to IAEA, the country requires a bill to cover all nuclear regulatory matters and determine the approach for regulatory oversight of the nuclear power programme.This will pave way for further developing the safety, security and safeguards infrastructure, including identifying the potential senior leadership for regulatory oversight.LAWS AND CAPACITY BUILDINGThe Energy ministry, through Kneb, is finalising the Draft Nuclear Regulatory Bill 2016, which will help the country address issues associated with nuclear power use. Kneb, which is mandated with developing nuclear power plant infrastructure for the country, said it targets to have the bill ready by the end of this year to pave way for enactment early next year.This is ahead of 2022, when the ambitious construction of the country&rsquo;s first nuclear power plant is expected to begin. &ldquo;We are targeting to have a nuclear policy and legislations in place by next year. We will be conducting a feasibility study in the next two years which will give us a document that will guide us on building the plant,&rdquo; said Ndubai. The bill is expected to incorporate among others security, safety measures mainly in addressing radiation and management of NPP projects in country. Kneb is also coming up with a 15-year strategic plan with support from about 40 nuclear plant experts and stakeholders. On building local capacity, 19 Kenyan students have so far completed masters in nuclear programme in Korea and the US. In an agreement signed in September 2016 between Kneb and the Korea Electric Power Corp (Kepco) on cooperation in developing Kenya&rsquo;s nuclear plant, another 16 Kenya students were enrolled in Korea to pursue masters&rsquo; courses in Nuclear Power Engineering.Other students are in Russia and China.&ldquo;About 60 students in total have been sponsored on nuclear courses,&rdquo; Ndubai said.Kneb is also conducting awareness in learning institutions across the country, including universities and high schools. It is also mulling over the site of the plant.&ldquo;We want to go into full assessment to identify the potential site,&rdquo; she said. Though the possible site has remained a secret, it is likely to be close to the country&rsquo;s large water masses, thus Indian Ocean, lakes or one of the permanent rivers, noting that nuclear power plants use a lot of water in its cooling system.Cost estimates for the new nuclear power plant range between $4 billion (Sh410.4 billion) per unit to $9 billion (Sh923.4 billion).Russia&rsquo;s Rosatom, Korea Electric Power Corporation and the Chinese government have all expressed interest in building the plant.On May 30 last year, Kenya and Russia signed an MoU to promote nuclear solutions, assist in training personnel, create public awareness and design agriculture and medical solutions.Kneb acting chairman Stephen Karanja said it is worth taking up the project as the &ldquo;benefits outweighs the risks and costs&rdquo;.Energy PS Joseph Njoroge said there is need for continuous stakeholder engagement to help resolve &ldquo;widespread concerns&rdquo; of nuclear energy.&ldquo;The journey takes long in terms of certification and construction, but I am sure by 2027, we will be very ready to generate nuclear energy and integrate it into our grid,&rdquo; Njoroge said.Whether the project will take off or not will be known in four years&rsquo; time.