Debutantes Zoo Kericho are finding life in the top flight league is not a bed of roses. The humbling they suffered in their own Green Stadium backyard at the hands of Sofapaka goes a long way to show that Zoo might not have been ready to feature in the top flight league.The disputes over which teams to feature in this seasons Sportpesa Premier League dragged on for long, hampering their ability to make the necessary transfer deals befitting a top division team. While their fellow promoted sides have shown they can cope with the rigours of life among the elite, Zoo look increasingly out of their depth going by all the early season signals.For coach Sammy Okoth, the sooner the mid-season transfer window opens, the better for them. It&rsquo;s no surprise that Muhoroni Youth find themselves struggling in the bottom three with five points in as many matches. The club have lost most of their key players after the incessant tiffs with the management last season and that has shown in their recent results. A loss to AFC Leopards on Sunday was the Top 8 champions third and they are in danger of being sucked into a relegation dog-fight despite the season being at its infancy. Also finding it tough in their maiden season in the Premier League are one-time money bags, Nakumatt, who lost to fellow new boys Kariobangi Sharks to remain in the bottom three. And with the federation having said that two teams will be automatically relegated and the third forced into a relegation/promotion play off, Nakumatt must sort themselves out or they will be left feeling blue. The supermarket chain store giants have five points in as many matches.At the top of the table, the teams expected to challenge game for the title are showing their hands early on. Gor Mahia are still top with 12 points after picking up their fourth win of the campaign thanks to their 2-1 victory over Sony Sugar. Rwandan striker Meddie Kagere has continued to show his importance to K&rsquo;Ogallo&rsquo;s bid to reclaim the league title as he netted the winner over the weekend.Posta Rangers, one of a couple of teams yet to lose a match are second, a point behind K&rsquo;Ogallo after defeating Mathare United 1-0 over the weekend. Bandari&rsquo;s home form will be vital for their title challenge and they are grasping that fact. Saturday&rsquo;s 3-0 drubbing of Thika United was their third successive win in Mombasa and leaves them with ten points in third place.