&ldquo;My wife, Mary, was diagnosed with lung cancer two years ago. This was devastating news, more so as we had two young children who would now miss their mother&rsquo;s presence in their lives. While seeking treatment, it was recommended that we try Latvia for advanced therapy and true enough, we returned home with my wife cancer-free.In February 2017, the cancer returned and it was stage 4. My wife&rsquo;s condition deteriorated so fast that she was unable to travel back to Latvia. We had to seek alternatives. It was at this point that a friend mentioned an oncologist who was using one of the latest therapy modalities that was proving quite successful.We found the so-called oncologist &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; William Njuguna at Trinity Medical Centre in Ngong. After running a couple of tests, he recommended that my wife be admitted as he sourced for drugs from South Africa.He required Sh135,000 deposit.Then he asked if we could wire the money to his wife&rsquo;s account. That was our first red flag.The next day, he mentioned he had found a better offer: he would procure the complete regimen Mary would require from Mexico&hellip;for a one-time offer of SSh1.7 million. But he would require a Sh800,000 deposit.My wife lay in a hospital bed and with each passing day she appeared to be fading. &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; William guaranteed us that if we were to send the money by Wednesday that week; the drugs would be delivered by Sunday.In three days, we would have the complete regimen. We were suspicious but we were desperate.We transferred part of the initial deposit.That Sunday, the drugs had not arrived and &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; William claimed the Mexican company had sent him a notification that they were out of stock and would need a few days.However, as the delivery arrangements had been interrupted, he would have to make different arrangements and was in talks with a pilot friend of his regarding this. The friend would also require a facilitation fee.I requested to see bank transfer statements of the previous payment before proceeding. He was unable to provide this claiming he would have to track it.My wife still lay in a hospital bed.Meanwhile, we had received word from Latvia and they were willing to retry the previous regimen but would need to have a call with our consulting doctor&hellip; 'Dr' William.I sat in during the call...suffice it to say &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; William was clearly not a doctor as he was unable to respond to most of the questions raised.It was at this point that I recalled the dodgy doctor tool that helps users identify if a practitioner is licensed or not. I decided to run a quick search for &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; William. He was not registered.Upon confronting him, he abruptly discharged my wife claiming he couldn&rsquo;t deal with patients who questioned his qualifications.We requested that he at least have the courtesy to refund our money and he did. He still holds on to Sh310,000 but he stopped picking our calls and we had to file a police case.Trinity Medical Centre revoked his admission rights,but why was he able to by-pass the system in the first place?We found out none of his previous patients have survived.My wife received her therapy from Latvia. She had made a slight improvement but her condition remain unstable.This has pre-occupied our minds and time. We are yet to follow up the police case and have asked for assistance in reporting this to the medical board.&rdquo;Read: Dodgy doctor series: The quack milking patients with unproven cancer treatment