Jubilee&rsquo;s pointman Suleiman Shahbal and his team were on Monday evening locked up in a private meeting to discuss how to deal with post-nominations fallout.Hopefuls are expected to lock horns in the party&rsquo;s primaries, the first in the region.The exercise has attracted a large number of aspirants, in what is seen as an attempt by Jubilee Party to remove the notion the region is an opposition zone.Mombasa alone has 176 hopefuls seeking the posts of MCAs, senators and MPs on the JP ticket.The meeting came moments after Shabhal sent a statement saying there are no &lsquo;favourite&rsquo; Jubilee candidates or a line-up of preferred aspirants. He wished aspirants good luck. Shahbal is running for Mombasa governor.An insider told the Star: &ldquo;It was agreed in the meeting that in as much as the process will be free and fair, the party must only churn out strong candidates to face our rivals. So in that respect, no one will be favoured since we need only strong candidates that will make it to the ballot.&rdquo;Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate Ananiah Mwaboza and JP Mombasa branch chairman Matano Chengo among other leaders, attended the meeting.There was a consensus that if the process will be smooth, fallouts will be minimal and democracy will prevail.&ldquo;Most fallouts occur when some parties feel they have been rigged out or there was foul play. We want to avoid that at all costs, and want to have some strategy over how our members will remain united. We cannot afford to destroy what has taken us months to build,&rdquo; the source said.Yesterday, Shahbal said all preparations for the nominations are complete. &ldquo;Materials are all under armed police guard. Tomorrow [Tuesday] they will be released to the respective polling stations, again, under police guard. All agents for aspirants will be present to monitor the process,&rdquo; Shahbal said.He said voting will not start at any polling station without the agents, because their presence will ensure an open exercise.&ldquo;These elections will be absolutely transparent and free. All Jubilee candidates are my candidates and I support them all. I repeat again, there are no favourite candidates,&rdquo; Shahbal said.The meeting ended at 10.30pm.In the Jubilee line-up, some of the prominent aspirants include Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana, who is running for the Senate seat.In January, she defected from ODM, and was received by President Uhuru Kenyatta. This was seen as a major blow to Governor Hassan Joho, who is also the party&rsquo;s deputy leader.Katana will be battling it out with Abdul Salam, a first-time aspirant, for the JP ticket.Amina Abdallah will faceoff with Khadija Mursi for the position of Mombasa woman representative.In the Nyali parliamentary race, one of the most contested seats in the region, Ashraf Bayusuf, Sanjeev Agarwal and Yassin Noor are among the prominent names featuring in Jubilee&rsquo;s list.The winner may face Joho&rsquo;s cousin Abdallah Said, who beat journalist Mohammed Ali in the ODM primaries. Ali has since challenged the results.The Changamwe MP seat has attracted Abdi Daib and Dr Kibwana Abdallah who will square it out for the JP ticket. MCA Karisa Nzai will fight it off with Liban Hersi for the Jomvu MP seat, occupied by Badi Twalib who defected from ODM to Wiper. In Kisauni constituency, Tony Thuku will be against Francis Runya Lewa in their efforts to unseat ODM&rsquo;s Rashid Bedzimba. Bedzimba faces strong opposition from Wiper&rsquo;s Ali Mbogo.Masoud Mwahima is running unopposed for the Likoni MP seat, and will be at the ballot with ODM&rsquo;s Mishi Mboko, among other nominees.