NASA leaders have announced a meeting at Bomas of Kenya on Thursday, reigniting hopes for the naming of its flag bearer.Initially, members of the Opposition coalition were Raila Odinga (ODM), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper).Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto of Chama Cha Mashinani joined them on Tuesday while Kanu secretary general Nick Salat has been seen at some of their meetings.Rutto's entry is likely to change the Opposition's plans amid the flag bearer selection process. He said he&nbsp; struck a pre-election deal with the principals that will guide their political marriage into and after the general election. More on this:&nbsp; Isaac Rutto joins NASA as fifth principal, promises Jubilee hard time in pollsPressure has been mounting for the principals to name the person who will battle it out with President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 8.They have dismissed claims of infighting and a split, and said they will take their time to name the candidate.More on this: 'Desperate' Jubilee behind fake script naming Kalonzo Nasa flag bearer - ODMAlso read: NASA flag bearer choice rests with principals, not committee - KalonzoMachakos Senator Johnson Muthama said on Wednesday: "We have a flag bearer and very soon Kenyans will get to know where we are heading. We meet tomorrow at Bomas... you will hear a lot from us." Muthama told the media in Nairobi that they cannot let Kenyans down by failing to name the flag bearer on&nbsp;time. "Wote watazungumza pale Bomas (They will all speak at Bomas)...we have a flag bearer," he said.But he only spoke of four principals.Muthama continued:&nbsp;"Kenyans can sit and watch television, listen to radio and read the newspapers on Friday.&nbsp; Very soon&nbsp;Kenyans&nbsp;will get to know where we are heading." The Senator said &nbsp; Jubilee Party should not be worried about their choice. "Jubilee hail ali na wanawashwa na pili pili ambayo hawajala. Hatujawauliza Uhuru alichanguliwa lini in 2013. Lakini sisi kuku akitoa sauti kidogo tu wanaanza kuongea," he said.&nbsp; "Tuna mipango yetu yenye ni kamili na kamilifu." This loosely translates to: "Jubilee leaders are not at rest. They are agitated by pepper they have not eaten. We have not asked them for the point at which they settled for Uhuru in 2013 but they always have something to say whenever we take any step. We have solid serious plans." Muthama was with Siaya Senator James Orengo, &nbsp;chair of the 12-member steering committee working on the National Super Alliance plan. &nbsp;