The government may be forced to shut down electricity generation at its largest hydroelectric dam if the ongoing drought persists beyond a month, Energy PS Joseph Njoroge warned yesterday.He, however, ruled out power rationing in the unlikely event this happens. Njoroge said water levels at the dam are &ldquo;just about to get to minimum operating level&rdquo; which could see hydro-generation activities halted. &ldquo;Masinga dam may not generate its about 40 megawatt. Downstream will, however, continue generation,&rdquo; Njoroge said on the sideline of the ongoing Africa renewable energy leaders&rsquo; summit in Nairobi. &ldquo;We are hopeful, however, that according to the meteorologist, we should see some rains in the next three weeks or so.&rdquo; Masinga&rsquo;s minimum operating level is normally 1,037 metres . Water levels at the dam, which is the main reservoir of the Seven Forks hydro stations, had gone down to 1,048.31 metres in January and is said to have further sunk in the last two months. State-owned electricity producer, KenGen, will be forced to shut down its power plant if levels falls below 1,035.5 metres. &ldquo;If we get those rains I don&rsquo;t think we will have a lot of disruption, but if we don&rsquo;t get the rains by then, there will be quite some disruption,&rdquo; Njoroge said. The low water levels in Masinga are expected to reduce the hydropower contribution to the national grid by 27 per cent, Energy and Petroleum CS Charles Keter recently said. KenGen switched on diesel-run generators early this year to supplement hydro-electric power. This has pushed the fuel cost charge to above $2.85 cents (about Sh2.94 ) per kilowatt hour from $2.31 cents (Sh2.38 ) per kilowatt hour in December. The cost of power went up by about 5.5 per cent in February. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows households who consumed 50Kwh paid an average Sh588.20 up from Sh557.40 in January. Consumers of 200Kwh parted with Sh3,691.1 up from Sh3,568.1 in January, a 3.4 per cent jump. This, however, eased in March, the latest data shows, where consumers paid an average Sh569.61 and Sh3,616 respectively. &ldquo;It will have an effect on Fuel Cost Charge but so far we have managed,&rdquo; Njoroge said.