Confusion, rigging claims and malpractices marring ODM nominations have been blamed on the party&rsquo;s National Elections Board failure to disclose the criteria used to recruit officials overseeing the exercise.National Assembly deputy minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo yesterday questioned the integrity of party&rsquo;s NEB chaired by Judy Pareno and secretary Robert Arunga in setting up election panels in counties to preside over the nominations.Midiwo, also Gem MP, told the Star on the phone the process is compromised because most officials are allied to certain aspirants, including governors and influencing the outcome in favour of their bosses.&ldquo;We have asked NEB to tell us the process they used to recruit the election staff. They have refused and Pareno does not talk. What we are asking is the same thing facing everybody. NEB is an organ under us. It cannot act independently, be corrupt and we don&rsquo;t comment about it,&rdquo; he said.ODM political affairs director Opiyo Wandayi, however, disagrees on grounds members complaining against Pareno&rsquo;s board have either sensed defeat or have lost in primaries. He said NEB is an independent organ, which is not supposed to be directed by any person. Wandayi, also the Ugunja MP, said nominations are going on &ldquo;smoothly and satisfactorily&rdquo;.&ldquo;Aspirants would always want to control the election process to suit their interests. It is impossible for NEB while composing the election panels to satisfy the interests of every aspirant,&rdquo; Wandayi said.&ldquo;Complaints we are hearing are not by surprise. It has been noted that every politician, who is losing or has lost must always have an excuse on someone or something to blame.&rdquo;Yesterday, Pareno did not pick calls or respond to text messages. Midiwo claimed that election officials in Siaya are allied to Governor Cornel Rasanga and ODM leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s elder brother and nominated MP Oburu Odinga.He said Kisumu and Busia counties have the same problem, hence, making it hard to have free, fair and transparent nominations&ldquo;In Siaya, we don&rsquo;t know if the polling centres have been marked or not. In Busia, officials who lied and put the party into this rigging shame are all working for Governor Sospeter Ojaamong,&rdquo; Midiwo said.He raised concern that it would be &ldquo;stupid&rdquo; for the energy of a member who has worked hard for the party to go to waste after being short-changed through corruption.Midiwo said criminal charges should be instituted against Ojaamong and the election panel disqualified for conspiring to rig out Funyula MP Paul Otuoma in the Thursday Busia governor nominations.&ldquo;In my view, Otuoma won the election. What Pareno team has done to Otuoma is exactly what the Kivuitu team did to Raila in the disputed 2007 general election. The incident look like twins; mirror for mirror and it is unacceptable,&rdquo; he said. On Friday, Pareno nullified the results and called for fresh nominations on April 25.