Give him a break! Quit bashing him! You&rsquo;re only making him a martyr.That&rsquo;s what Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s rivals are telling the Jubilee Party and administration.It says the continuous assaults on the Coast kingpin are having the opposite effect. They are hurting those who want to defeat him &mdash; Senators Hassan Omar and Nyali MP Hezron Aiti say.They said on Sunday they are not happy with government tactics in its &ldquo;desperate&rdquo; attempt to bar Joho from defending his seat.They spoke at Akamba Handicrafts when Changamwe MP hopeful Daniel Muange officially launched his bid. &ldquo;We want that man with D-minus on the ballot. That tactic to bar him is counter productive. The guy is beatable. He has done nothing for the people of Mombasa,&rdquo; Omar said.The Jubilee Party and administration say there&rsquo;s nothing political going on, but concerns about the authenticity of Johos academic papers are real. And so are concerns about tax payment, they say.The senator&rsquo;s camp says Joho is capitalising on his political wars with President Uhuru Kenyatta to gain sympathy from Mombasa voters, which improves his ratings.However, Omar&rsquo;s team has a counter-narrative &mdash; Joho&rsquo;s administration has not performed in more than four yars in power.&ldquo;The senator feels his [Joho&rsquo;s] human rights are being infringed upon by senior people in the government who are trying to bring him down. But this is working for Joho instead,&rdquo; a close ally of Omar told the Star.Awiti has told his confidants Joho is taking advantage of his woes to increase his popularity. &ldquo;They are making him look much more than he really is,&rdquo; he told his campaign strategists two weeks ago at his private offices.However, Jubilee&rsquo;s Anania Mwaboza yesterday said it is wrong to conclude the government is deliberately frustrating Joho. He denied there is a plot to bar the governor from contesting on August 8.&ldquo;Which government is fighting Joho? If it is about his certificate, it is legitimate. The academic ratings of the University of Nairobi will be affected if it is ever known they admitted an unqualified person. It has nothing to do with the government,&rdquo; Mwaboza told the Star on the phone yesterday.He said he is acting in the best interest of Kenyans to show Joho&rsquo;s case is an isolated one, so that it does not hurt other university graduates. &ldquo;On KRA, the institution is only trying to ascertain whether the governor has been meeting his tax obligations. I am the one who raised these critical matters, not the government.&ldquo;Let him not say it is the government. If he has his wars with President Uhuru, it is his own problem. He should answer these pertinent questions that I am asking,&rdquo; Mwaboza said.Awiti&rsquo;s spokesman Ibrahim Kai yesterday said the government is applying the law selectively. Kai said Joho&rsquo;s camp is depicting the governor as the victim by saying he is being targeted, alleging of a plot to finish him politically. &ldquo;That is propaganda. The whole thing is being blown out of proportion. The IEBC has never said a word. It is only those who surround Joho who are imagining Joho won&rsquo;t be on the ballot,&rdquo; Kai said on the phone.He said only the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission can determine whether Joho can run.On Sunday, Awiti said Joho is beatable. &ldquo;Let Joho be on the ballot so that we beat him,&rdquo; a confident Omar said.