The newly crowned world all-women marathon record holder, Mary Keitany may not be keen to represent the country at the August&rsquo;s IAAF World athletics Championships despite posting exemplary performance in London 10 days ago.Keitany broke the all-women world record a week ago during the London Marathon, clocking 2:17.01 to smash the previous mark set by Briton&rsquo;s Paula Radcliffe in 2015 by 41 second. Radcliffe now holds the 2:15.25 record, which she set when she used male-pace setters.Keitany said considering that she has run the fastest time in women&rsquo;s marathon, four months may not be enough to recover fully and represent Kenya in the World Championships in August.&ldquo;You know I ran fastest time in London and I want to take time for recovery. I will see how my body responds though the time between now and August is very short,&rdquo; she added.She, however, hinted that she may compete at the New York City Marathon in November. &ldquo;For now, I can&rsquo;t tell which race I will compete next but I may run in New York Marathon. However, that decision will be made once I sit down with my manager,&rdquo; she said.Keitany has appeared at the New York City Marathon three times, winning on all the occassions. She made her debut in New York in 2014 and has ruled the roost since then.According to her, planning for a world record started long time through the encouragement of her husband Charles Koech. She said her knowledge of the London Marathon course, where she has run four times, made things even easier prio to her feat.&ldquo; I started thinking about the world record two years ago and I am glad my dream has been actualised,&rdquo; she noted.Keitany, also the 2009 World Half Marathon champion, improved her personal best over the distance to 1:05.13 at the Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon in February in an event where Peris Chepchirchir set the World Half Marathon record. The record has since been smashed by Kenya&rsquo;s Joycyline Jepkosgei.&ldquo;After running at the RAK half marathon, I could feel that I was in good shape and my conviction for the record became stronger. This is when I came home and discussed about it with my husband,&rdquo; she said.Keitany won the London Marathon titles in 2011, 2012 and 2017 and finished second and ninth in 2015 and 2016 respectively. At the 2011 RAK Half Marathon, she set a world record of 1:05.50 before setting Kenya&rsquo;s national record of 2:18.37 at the 2012 London Marathon.