NASA storm on who among the four co-principals should be flagbearer yesterday deepened after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi held private talks over the ticket.The meeting between Kalonzo and Mudavadi lasted one and a half hours at Wiper headquarters in Nairobi. They discussed the hotly contested ticket just a day after ANC and ODM traded barbs over the coalition&rsquo;s long-awaited flagbearer.ODM secretary general Agnes Zani on Tuesday confirmed media reports that NASA&rsquo;s 12-member National Coordinating Committee had settled on ODM leader Raila Odinga to fly the presidential ticket, with Musyoka as his deputy. But ANC secretary general Godfrey Osotsi hit back at Zani, dismissing the remarks. He accused ODM of being behind dirty propaganda leaks that undermined unity, credibility and integrity of the talks.&ldquo;If what was said by ODM secretary general is true, then she has to withdraw publicly. As of now, we have not agreed on the flag bearer and nothing is agreed until it is agreed,&rdquo; Musyoka said.The Wiper leader accused some &ldquo;disloyal&rdquo; individuals within the coalition, and external forces of jeopardising final talks to settle on a presidential candidate.&ldquo;There are agents of confusion within and without us. I have seen comments by ANC, and clearly we cannot afford to go that way. There were tremendous leakages on the work of national co-ordinating committee. If they cannot themselves guard their own secrets, then they are part of this confusion and lack loyalty. We are sounding them out,&rdquo; Musyoka said.Mudavadi criticised Raila for saying Monday demonstration in Kakamega to pile pressure on NASA co-principals to name ANC leader the flagbearer was the work of the National Intelligence Service.&ldquo;You cannot vilify people&rsquo;s freedom of expression and wishes,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.The protesters were expressing their dissatisfaction at the leaks that revealed ANC leader had been designated the chief minister position in the NASA line-up if it wins in the August 8 general election.Kalonzo (pictured) asked NASA supporters to remain patient as they finalise the talks.&ldquo;We should remain focused, with our eyes on the ball. The ball is not Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi or Wetang&rsquo;ula but the ball that will send Jubilee home,&rdquo; he said.Kalonzo had earlier met Wiper aspirants in Nairobi, where he assured them of free and fair nominations. He also said NASA co-principals are consulting to field joint candidates in some areas in the county.