It's do or die for key allies of opposition chief Raila Odinga as big names dominating Kenyan politics face off in primaries starting today.The seven-day, staggered ODM primaries will propel, hobble or extinguish careers. They could trigger many defections.The stakes are high in the secret-ballot vote.&ldquo;It will be a do-or-die duel, political analyst Barack Muluka yesterday told the Star in an interview. "It's a game of giants at a certain level and some will come down tumbling down like a house of cards."The battle for coveted ODM tickets is ferocious in traditional strongholds of Western, Nyanza and Coast where heavyweights are staring at political oblivion &mdash; at least five years in the cold.Aspirants holding direct tickets in these areas already have one foot in office before the August 8 polls.&ldquo;In some places, once you have that ticket you are actually home and dry. If you get the ticket in Siaya or anywhere in Kisumu, you're okay. Therefore, the stakes are extremely high and we expect vicious nominations,&rdquo; Muluka said. The IEBC allows primary losers to run as independents. This may trigger a wave of defections, especially if primaries are mismanaged.Primaries must end by April 26. Independent candidates should present their names by May 10.&ldquo;Most people losing primaries are still going to end up on the ballot as independents. Those who get the ticket in some regions have an advantage because the party comes in with a bit of support,&rdquo; political analyst Martin Andati said. Primaries start today in Busia, Bungoma and Machakos counties.The real battle is in Busia where Raila allies &mdash; Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma are contesting. Otuoma says his opponent influenced the appointment of county election officers. Signs are worrisome. Supporters of the two clashed last week, leaving one man seriously injured.Yesterday the ODM disciplinary committee said Ojaamong and Otuoma had been found guilty and reprimanded.&ldquo;They have been cautioned and should adhere to the code of conduct they both have sworn in their quest for the ticket,&rdquo; the committee said.Following complaints against County Elections committees and Constituency Election Panels, the party NEB clarified that their roles are limited to logistical and infrastructural arrangements.&ldquo;Party nominations is the responsibility of the Returning Officers, Presiding Officers and the Clerks,&rdquo; ODM national elections board chair Judy Pareno and secretary Robert Arunga announced yesterday.At the Coast, Raila has a tough task in Taita Taveta and Kilifi where primaries are on Tuesday and Wednesday next week, respectively.Kilifi woman representative Aisha Jumwa faces MP Willie Mtengo for the Malindi Parliamentary seat.Jumwa was among six legislators arrested and detained for hate speech last June. She has threatened to defect if rigged out. &ldquo;We need to watch this contest very keenly,&rdquo; Andati said. &ldquo;Aisha has been very close to Raila but she has been complaining people are determined to rig the nomination.&rdquo;National Assembly minority whip Thomas Mwadeghu and Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu are in a battle of titans for the county's top job. Both are key Raila point men at the Coast, especially after many leaders defected to Jubilee.In Nyamira, Governor John Nyagarama and West Mugirango MP James Gesami are in a tight contest.The epicenter of fierce and previously violent ODM primaries is likely to be Luo Nyanza.Trouble broke out on April 3 when supporters of Migori Governor Okoth Obado clashed with those of opponent Ochilo Ayacko. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's bodyguard was shot in the leg. The two are to reappear before the disciplinary team as Raila toils to tame violence in his backyard. That violence was blamed in part for his presidential loss in 2013.In Siaya, nominated MP Oburu Oginga, Governor Cornell Rasanga, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo are in a close fight.Oburu, Raila&rsquo;s elder brother, will do battle with Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda on April 24.Oburu has trounced Ochanda thrice, but Ochanda has asked Oburu to retire, saying he did nothing during 20 years as MP.Rasanga, on the other hand, will face Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, former PS Carey Orege and businessman William Oduol.Midiwo, deputy minority in the National Assembly and Raila's cousin, faces management consultant Elisha Odhiambo. Odhiambo, a perennial Midiwo rival, has previously complained of being rigged out by Orange House operatives. In 2013, he urged the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal to revoke Midiwo's nomination.Wandayi, ODM's political affairs secretary, faces a tough contest against Otieno Aluru.Another hotspot is Kisumu where Governor Jack Ranguma goes head-to-head with Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o. A career could end. Recent opinion polls strongly indicate Prof Nyong&rsquo;o&rsquo;s uninterrupted 25 years in Parliament are over. They put Ranguma at 58.7 per cent against 8.7 per cent for Nyong&rsquo;o. The professor, long-time member of Raila's kitchen cabinet, rubbished the poll as commercially driven.In Homa Bay, it's Governor Cyprian Awiti versus ex-NIS Finance Director Sam Wakiaga and Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga.This races is too close to call, with Magwanga flourishing his development record, having been named Kenya's best CDF manager.ODM national chairman John Mbadi is fighting to retain his Suba South Parliamentary seat. He confronts Raila's former chief of staff and owner of Orange House, Caroli Omondi.