Claustrophobia is an anxiety disorder characterised by extreme and irrational fear of confined spaces and having no escape. A typical claustrophobic will fear small rooms, locked rooms, cars, tunnels, airplanes, crowded areas and dark caves &mdash; though this last location probably applies to a lot of people, not just claustrophobics.Some claustrophobics fear restriction so much that sitting in a barber&rsquo;s chair, or even standing in line at a supermarket counter, is out of the question.It&rsquo;s not that claustrophobics fear small spaces per se, but rather they fear what could happen in this perceived small space, which in their minds is: air will run out and they will die of suffocation. Understandably, this fear leads to a panic attack, during which some claustrophobics have been known to remove all their clothing to relieve themselves of this imagined sensation of asphyxiation. Luckily for impressionable children who might be around during one of these panic attacks, most claustrophobics are adept at avoiding supermarket counters, elevators and any other tight spots you might think of. Also fortunate is that claustrophobia is not common. One study says that only 5&ndash;7 per cent of the human population suffers from the disorder. No doubt for someone suffering from claustrophobia, life can get complicated. I can only imagine what a claustrophobic&rsquo;s reaction is to being offered a lift in a small car. Come to think of it, how do claustrophobics get around?There is a type of claustrophobia, however, that we as society tolerate, and even accept, when we should instead fear it. And that is claustrophobia of the mind, what in everyday words we refer to as close-mindedness.I find that entirely too many people are content with being close-minded, they revel in it. Their biases, prejudices, intolerance to beliefs, opinions and ideas other than their own boggles the mind, and I often wonder, does it not get suffocating for close-minded people, this restricting the mind in a confined space?There are debates as to why people are close-minded. It could be that close-minded people intentionally steer clear of views contrary to their own. Or, it&rsquo;s a case that they&rsquo;re only exposed to ideas that confirm to their own. Whichever side of this debate you choose to lean towards, it still remains that an alarming number of people tend to have one-sided views, their own, about other tribes, races, cultures, and even what morals everyone must adhere to. What is even more unfortunate is that unlike claustrophobics, mind claustrophobics, or close-minded people, do not keep their condition to themselves. They are loud and abrasive in demanding that the world bend to their will, and society doesn&rsquo;t do much to discourage them.But, there&rsquo;s hope, a vaccine for mind claustrophobia, two pills that should be able to stop the spread of, and probably even cure close-mindedness. The pills: scepticism and cynicism.Of cynicism, George Bernard Shaw said: &lsquo;It is the power of accurate observation. It is called cynicism by those who haven&rsquo;t got it.&rsquo;As for scepticism, it is an inclination to question or doubt accepted opinions.In practical terms, imagine the lemming lives that would have been saved if several sceptical and cynical lemmings among the multitude had questioned and doubted the accepted practice of running towards a cliff&rsquo;s edge, and accurately observed that jumping off the cliff en masse was a bad idea.