President Donald Trump hit up a golf course on Sunday despite the looming threat of war following his decision to launch airstrikes in Syria.The 45th president was spotted at the Trump International Golf Course in West Palm Beach, Florida, for the second day in a row after the US launched cruise missiles at a Syrian air base on Thursday night during the Chinese President's visit to Mar-a-Lago.Trump retaliated against Syrian president Bashar Assad, who he said was responsible for unleashing a chemical weapons attack on his own people.But the military action enraged Syrian allies, and Russian and Iranian forces said Trump had crossed a 'red line' with his surprise missile bombardment on Assad&rsquo;s forces.'From now on we will respond with force to any breach of red lines and America knows our ability to respond well,' the military chiefs said in a joint statement with Hezbollah.The Russian Embassy in London also suggested there could be &lsquo;real war&rsquo; if Moscow is presented with an ultimatum over Syria.But Trump appeared unfazed as he hit the links for the second day in a row on Sunday. It marked his 16th visit to one of his own golf courses since he became president. While Trump repeatedly attacked Obama's golf trips and vacations for at least five years, the Donald is far outpacing his predecessor, who waited until April 26, 2009 for his first game. During the campaign, Trump said that as president, he would probably never see his own golf courses again because he'd be too busy working.He said: 'You know what - and I love golf - but if I were in the White House, I don't think I'd ever see Turnberry [in Scotland] again. I don't think I'd ever see Doral again -- I own Doral, in Miami. I don't think I'd ever see many of the places that I have.'I don't ever think that I'd see anything. I just wanna stay in the White House and work my ass off, make great deals, right? Who's gonna leave? I mean, who's gonna leave?' Trump has now spent his 10th consecutive weekend traveling to one of his properties in the 11 weeks he's been president.