A senior Kenya National Union of Teachers official, Agnes Kambua, has claimed Kitui gubernatorial seat hopeful senator David Musila belonged to the ilk of retired senior citizens on account of his age.Kambua said Musila&rsquo;s age could slow him from effectively performing the duties of a governor. She urged Kitui people to reject Musila on account of age in favour of the younger, agile and athletic incumbent Julius Malombe. The Kyuso Knut branch executive secretary who seats in the union NEC was addressing a political rally at Zombe stadium where she joined Malombe who was campaigning ahead of the Monday Wiper party Kitui gubernatorial seat primaries. Musila is taking on Malombe for the Wiper ticket.&ldquo;In 1959 Musila was my husband&rsquo;s teacher in standard one but my husband, John Musee (62), retired from public service in 2015 after attaining the age of 60 years. That tells your Musila is too advanced in age to deliver as our governor as he is already tired,&rdquo; said Kambua.She was echoed by MCAs Eunice Katheke (Zombe ward) and James Kinyala (Endau/Malalani ward) in calling on the Wiper supporters not to vote in Musila during the gubernatorial seat nomination. The leaders drummed for Malombe&rsquo;s re-elections as he had performed to residents&rsquo; expectations.&ldquo;Since at his advanced age Musila has refused to retire from leadership, it is now upon the electorate to put him where he belongs by rejecting him at the Wiper nominations. It is time he took a rest even if forcefully,&rdquo; said Kambua.Malombe urged the locals to back his re-election bid saying that he had done a lot to improve the lives of the people of Kitui. He said not only had the economy of Kitui improved through facilitative projects but the peoples lifestyles had changed for the better.He said better times await Kitui people if they re-elected him the governor. He said he his government would initiate a programme which would ensure each household in Kitui had sufficient food. &ldquo;It will be an operation to kick relief food out of Kitui county,&rdquo; said Malombe.