ODM primaries have kicked off in parts of Nairobi with voters complaining of missing names in the register."Niliigia hapa 5.30am (I got here at 5.30am) but after queuing here for long naambiwa jina langu haliko kwenye register (I was told my name is not in the register)," one resident from Makadara constituency said."Wanatafuta jina langu na hawapati ... nashindwa ni nini inaendelea. (They keep looking for my name but they can't find it and I'm wondering what's going on."Primaries at Kilimani primary school have also been marred with complaints that the party is using the 2013 register."Nimekuja like an hour ago. Nimekuja kuvote wakaniambia jina langu haliko. Ni kama wanatumia register ya 2013 (I came to vote but they said my name is not in the register ... they're using the 2013 register)," one said.Voters queue at Kilimani primary school ahead of ODM Nairobi nominations, April 30, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYUIn Makadara, party branch chair George Aladwa will be battling it out with former area MP Reuben Ndolo for the ODM ticket.In Kibra, NASA leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s former aide Eliud Owalo will be fighting to unseat incumbent Ken Okoth.A fierce battled is also expected in Embakasi East where University of Nairobi student leader Babu Owino will be facing incumbent John Ogutu.Businesslady-cum-politician Esther Passaris will be fighting for the party ticket with Mountain View MCA Beautrice Kwamboka.Dagoreteti North MP Simba Arati speaks at Kilimani primary after voting in the ODM primaries, April 30, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYUNational Elections Board chair Judith Pareno said all measures have been put in place to ensure the primaries are a success.Pareno said the primaries would be conducted only in centres earmarked by IEBC as polling stations."We have 320 centre gazetted by IEBC as polling stations. This is where we expect voters to cast their votes and not anywhere else," she said.She said results for MCAs and MPs will be announced by constituency returning officers while overall results for senator and woman rep announced at Nyayo national stadium by the county returning officer.More on this: ODM ready for Nairobi nominationsVoters wait outside Loreto school in Kangemi to participate in ODM Nairobi primaries, April 30, 2017. /ENOS TECHELast week, ODM disbanded the Nairobi polls following the destruction of the ballot papers.The party had said deputy leader Hassan Joho would preside over the polls.