AFC Leopards toppled rivals Gor Mahia on the Kenyan Premier League table, behind Posta Rangers, after running over 10-man Thika United 2-1 at Thika Stadium, yesterday.Posta leapfrogged K&rsquo;Ogalo at the summit, thanks to another narrow league victory over Kariobangi Sharks on Saturday.The victory saw Ingwe go level on points (13) with third placed K&rsquo;ogalo but with a better goal difference after Gor were held by Tusker on Saturday.Ghanaian import Gilbert Fiamenyo opened the scored in the 35th minute before his provider Wyvonne Isuza doubled the lead in the 60th minute.Salim Mzee pulled a goal back for the hosts in the injury time immediately after Christopher Oruchum was send off.Elsewhere, Ulinzi Stars humiliated Mathare United 5-1 in a SportPesa Premier League encounter played at Nakuru&rsquo;s Afraha Stadium yesterday. Stephen Waruru capitalised on Mathare United&rsquo;s poor defending to score a hat trick&mdash;the first hat-trick of 2017 season. This was also Ulinzi&rsquo;s second biggest score-line so far in the Premier League. Mathare withered in the absence of coach Francis Kimanzi who served the first of his six touch line bans following his altercation with match officials last year. Ulinzi Stars have drawn their last two back-to-back matches against AFC Leopards and Western Stima. Samuel Onyango opened the scores for the soldiers barely two minutes into the match after a powerful start.Waruru then doubled the scores for the soldiers three minutes later with a neat finish as Ulinzi ran riot. Ten minutes later, Waruru doubled his tally with an easy finish after dancing through Mathare United defence. Mathare forward Derek Onyango then pulled one back for the slum boys against the run of play as soldiers led 3-1 at the breather. Waruru completed his hat trick in the 74 minute with a neat kick from the spot. Enosh Ochieng was again on the mark in the 87th minute to finish the job for Ulinzi as they strolled to a 5-0 victory.Weekend results Thika United 1 Leopards 2Ulinzi Stars 5 Mathare 1Gor Mahia 0 Tusker 0Muhoroni 2 Sony 0Nakumatt 2 W. Stima 0Nzoia 1 Zoo Kericho 1Sofapaka 0 Homeboyz 0Rangers 1 Sharks 0Chemelil 1 Bandari 0