In the last few weeks Kenya has seen an increase in intra-party political violence, especially during the party primaries, which began on April 13. Nominated candidates are one step into the office they are seeking. In some cases, especially in cases where major parties are dominant, the candidates are as good as elected. The focus was initially on ODM, which was the first party to begin the nomination process. Since the start of their primaries chaos has continued to mar the process. In fact, there were clashes in Migori and Ruaraka between rival camps that led to injuries before the primaries started. Primaries in Busisa county, which were the first, ended in chaos. The primaries were characterised by palpable tension. A storm has also been gathering within the ruling Jubilee Party, which began its nominations on Friday last week. Its preparations have also been characterised by internal party tensions. Supporters of Kirinyaga Governor Joseph Ndathi and former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru, the Jubilee candidate for governor, clashed at a prayer rally of the Akorino denomination believers at Kirinyaga Stadium on Sunday. That must have been a foretaste of things to come because the first day of the Jubilee primaries was so disorganised that they had to cancel the nominations across the country. Elections laws require all political parties to undertake internal party primary elections or nominate their candidates. But it’s a requirement they’d rather not fulfill. The truth is that our political parties coalesce around individuals and ethnic communities rather than ideology. This has made the running of party primaries an arduous task as dejected aspirants often troop to rival political formations after losing in a primary. This means parties have to contend with the nightmare of shifting alliances close to the general election.  RIVALRY BEHIND THE CHAOS Party primary violence has been most intense in regions where the main political parties command a strong following. As aforementioned, those nominated in their party strongholds have a better chance of winning at the general election. This explains why the battles during the nominations are so fierce, and aspirants often resort to violence against their opponents. Despite having disciplinary mechanisms, the main political parties have failed to rein in on those instigating chaos. They usually impose fines on offenders instead of taking more more drastic measures such as a suspension or expulsion. The fact that most politicians can easily raise the fines has bred a culture of impunity. This has resulted in perennial acts of violence during election cycles. If this violence isn’t contained, it could be a harbinger of things to come when Kenyans go to the polls in August. And while the recent conflict has been a wake-up call, it has not come as a surprise, given our history of election violence. Since the return of multiparty politics, the country has repeatedly witnessed ethnic tension and violence around election time. Only the2002 and 2013 polls stand out as being relatively peaceful.  DEEPER ISSUES The violence during and around election time is an indicator of underlying socioeconomic and political issues such as land injustices, marginalisation and disenfranchisement. These issues were set out in the 2013 Truth Justice and Reconciliation Report, which was compiled in response to the post-election violence of 2007-08. Its recommendations have never been implemented. The 2007-08 trajectory of ethnic animosity — which led to 1,133 deaths and displaced more than 600, 000 people — underscores the use of disputed elections to bring underlying issues to the fore. Although the next election in 2013 was relatively peaceful, ethnic tensions have continued to build up across the country. The theatre for this vicious ethnic-driven political intolerance has mostly been on social media platforms which are dominated by young Kenyans. The flame that has been fanned on social media since the 2013 polls is growing into a fire as politicians hit the campaign trail. While leaders engage in polarising rhetoric, it’s the youth who become either perpetrators or victims of the political violence. There are more young people in Kenya than any other demographic. They are also the most disenfranchised, which makes them vulnerable to being recruited as perpetrators of violence. Widespread unemployment standing at 22 per cent is also a contributory factor to young people joining campaign teams as vigilantes, militias or agents.  THE MAKING OF A PEACEFUL ELECTION As the general election approaches, the US and UK governments have raised the alarm over the potential for violence. The National Democratic Institute has also warned about the likelihood of violence before, during, or after the elections. The institute is an international non-governmental organisation, whose primary task is to advance democratic principles and good governance. In Kenya, its work has mainly involved strengthening electoral and political processes. The institute also gave a raft of recommendations on how to avoid election-related violence. But in the end, only Kenyans can put a stop to ethno-political violence. In the medium to longer term, one way they could do this would be by implementing the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission Report. Another would be to build political parties rooted in ideology rather than ethnicity. In the short-term, the institutions mandated to ensure peaceful elections must actively discourage violence. For example, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, a statutory agency established against the backdrop of a reconciliation pact agreed after the 2007-2008 post–election violence, must fulfil its mandate. It needs to ensure sustainable peaceful coexistence among Kenyans. In addition, the IEBC has a crucial role in mitigating political violence by conducting free and fair elections. And although the commission is legally allowed to conduct primary elections for political parties, some stakeholders have opposed its involvement in party affairs, citing the principle of neutrality. In my opinion, the commission should play an advisory and logistical role to ensure free, fair, and peaceful primary elections in the run-up to the general election in August.  This article was first published in The Conversation