A section of Kenyans, probably the majority, agree that the hope for a better Kenya does not rest with either NASA or Jubilee. Everything associated with these two outfits represents the genesis of almost all our problems as a country. The leaders of these political outfits have, at one time or the other, been in government, and hence bear the face of recycled leaders who cannot make any meaningful change. This reality has birthed a qualified opinion that only a neutral group made of &lsquo;clean&rsquo; men and women can offer hope for this country.Effecting change in governance involves processes. It is not an event. The most significant and known one is voting. It is, therefore, a matter of mobilising numbers to one&rsquo;s side and when that is successfully done, the winning team gets the full mandate to control government institutions and drive their agenda.The unofficial campaign period has been on for months now. NASA and Jubilee are spending all the available resources to activate support to get votes. The argument is firmly centered on numbers. So, if the Third Force is not attracting support to equal NASA and Jubilee figures, where do they expect their mandate to come from?Paolo Freire, in his book Pedagogy of the Oppressed, notes that defeating the evils of oppression requires strategy and organisation far more than just selling sympathy. The political and administrative oppression currently taking place in Kenya is directly leading to the dehumanisation of her citizens. When one cannot afford the price of a 2kg packet of Unga and therefore providing food for themselves and their families becomes a daily struggle, isn&rsquo;t that dehumanising? As Freire observes, such an oppression cycle must be defeated at all costs. The oppressed must come together, identify the most effective tactics, organise themselves and work on overcoming the status quo.The Third Force presents an opportunity to turn around our fortunes. Truthfully, it is the only route that Kenyans have towards realising the correct reform path so much needed in this country. For as long as we allow the old folks, grown and bred in the same institutional vices of yesteryear, to have governmental influence over our affairs, we just get comfortable with the current ills afflicting our society.Everybody agrees that we desperately need some change. Even with this reality in mind, expecting voters used to old-fashioned campaign tactics to vote out the &lsquo;old guard&rsquo; is relying on fragile hope, unnecessarily. The average citizen in the rural areas is still awed by the campaign machine thrust upon them by the current political elite group. They still drool at the handouts given to them at the start of every election cycle. This, in ideal terms, is the epitome of political ignorance. It is, however, the reality and any group bearing the Third Force tag must find ways of turning around this unfortunate state of affairs.How then can the Third Force market itself to get the relevant voter numbers needed to gain a governance mandate?The first action point is to accept that massive resources are required to reach every corner of this country. We are yet, as a country, to get to the point where we financially support our candidates and their parties. Only corporates and rich businesspeople with interests do so. However, a well-run campaign can get the population to supporting such a noble cause. Kenyans are generous and such campaigns as Bring Zack Home, Kenyans for Kenyans and many others funding initiatives can substantiate this claim. In addition, Starehe MP aspirant and activist Boniface Mwangi raised Sh160,000 for campaigns from well wishers, a week after he launched his Ukweli Party. He said the contributions were by shoemakers, boda boda operaters and generally, the common mwananchi.The Third Force must craft a well-run initiative, aimed at raising awareness on why the group requires massive support from the public. Those willing to support the team but face challenges in terms of time and availability can chip in financially. Online platforms such as gofund.com have proved to be quite effective in supporting noble causes. In seeking resources, a win-win situation is achieved where the campaigners get to strengthen the brand of their messages.Those who contribute become key stakeholders with a say in the party.In the process of creating the necessary war chest needed to permeate every ward in this nation, the Third Force should bring together a well-coordinated team of volunteers. It is agreeable that managing to raise a batch of, let us say, 10,000 individuals working at no fee is a mirage in this country, but the drivers of this group must make a very aggressive attempt. One, how the secretariat would organise itself would dictate the success of such a venture. A well-run coordination centre can inject the necessary inspiration needed to activate like-minded Kenyans into this cause. Primarily, transparency and accountability must be visible, lest the exercise ends in absolute futility.Finally, a branding tactic running up to Election Day must be unveiled. Should the Third Force leader access sufficient resources, all advertising platforms must be exhausted. A multi-dimensional branding exercise should include signage advertising, enough branded items such as T-shirts and pamphlets, booklets bearing their manifesto, use of regional radio stations and seeking an audience with opinion leaders such as the Church.Granted, this sounds like an ideal campaign situation that can only take place in countries such as the US, Uruguay, Canada or Norway. But we must, by all means, try it even in the face of possible retaliation by the old forces. Pulling down billboards is expected, refusal by some radio stations to air such adverts and buying out of all opinion leaders are likely obstacles towards this cause. However, the trial is necessary and the lessons learned can serve as a benchmark for another attempt. Indeed, doing this is better than setting a small office in Nairobi and expecting voters to come looking for Third Way ideologies and agenda.The fight must be started in the most aggressive manner, and the proponents must be vicious and tenacious enough to face the sharks that currently straddle the Kenyan political sphere.The writer comments on current issues