Gor Mahia coach Ze Maria has lauded his players for the focus they have shown from the start of the campaign and urged them to maintain the momentum.Ze Maria, who was yesterday named the Fidelity Insurance/Sjak coach of the month of March for leading Gor to two wins reiterated that his side are determined to make up for the trophyless season they endured last month.&ldquo;The players deserve commendation for the good start we have had. It&rsquo;s important that we keep this up throughout the campaign. Our target as usual is to finish number one. Last year, I found the team in 12th place and we still managed to finish second and we reached the final of the KPL Top 8 and the semis of the GOtv Shield. These are performances we must try and improve on,&rdquo; Ze Maria remarked after receiving a cheque of Sh75,000 and a personalized plaque.K&rsquo;Ogallo are a point clear at the top of the Sportpesa Premier League table with 12 points but Ze Maria and his charges are keen to pick as many victories as possible. &ldquo;Every other team wants to beat Gor that is why we have to be fully focused in all our matches regardless of the history of our opponents&rdquo; said the Brazilian. His remarks were echoed by Musa Mohammed, who assumed the club captain&rsquo;s mantle following the retirement of long-serving Jerim Onyango.&ldquo;There is no easy game in the Premier League. Every game has its own challenges. We are happy with where we are in the league at the moment this is something we must try and keep up for the entire campaign,&rdquo; said the Kenyan international.Musa, as well as Ze Maria, also praised the new signings for improving the squad and making them capable of challenging for honors on all fronts.&ldquo;There is great competition in the squad as we have almost two good players in every position and that can only be good for the team. Everybody is working hard and performing consistently knowing that there is a player who is equally good and ready to take up his position should he relax,&rdquo; Musa explained.Rwandan midfielder Jean Baptiste Mugirizaneza, reigning KPL Player of the Year, Kenneth Muguna have become first team regulars among the more than half a dozen new signings with a goal each to their name.