I recently trained political party women leaders from across the country. This was an excellent initiative by the Registrar of Political Parties and UN Women to empower over 400 women. In Kenya&rsquo;s history, women and youth have always been shortchanged in party nominations and other appointments. Rwanda, as an example, introduced structures and processes designed to advance women&rsquo;s leadership at all levels of government. They consequently achieved 56 per cent representation in Parliament, just 14 years after the devastating 1994 genocide. The country&rsquo;s approach can and should be emulated by any nation seeking to improve on its governance.One of the roles of a political party is to facilitate governance through democracy. But democracy can&rsquo;t be effective without women. The government has, however, showed commitment to gender equality and women&rsquo;s empowerment by respecting the rights of women enshrined in the Constitution and the Political Parties Law, with further requirements to have women included in political parties&rsquo; nomination lists. But parties have a bigger role to play in the implementation of these laws. They must enhance women&rsquo;s participation and representation in Parliament, as well as in the broader public decision-making processes. Potential women candidates should be elected, and then their capacity and influence built. The Kenya Women Parliamentary Association has tried to fill this gap. This initiative should begin with political parties, as a commitment of good political will. Voter and civic education should be based on the value of women&rsquo;s leadership, and encourage them to voice their support for it. Money politics has long hindered women from participating in politics. Insufficient economic resources are some of the biggest obstacles. This factor is evident to parties that do not receive government funding. But how can women access money to expand their presence in the political realm? In typical campaign funding, money dominates politics, and, here, women lose out. For many reasons, women are disadvantaged because candidates normally finance their own campaigns: In most cases, they earn less. The financial demand &mdash; money politics &mdash; during campaigns becomes almost impossible for women to meet.A widely accepted assumption is that men are the main breadwinners. That women should only make a complementary income or receive money from their husbands. This is where the political system remains unresponsive and impenetrable to most women. Fully skilled and empowered on finance sourcing, our women can do wonders.Another outstanding challenge to women&rsquo;s participation in politics is cultural barriers, gender stereotypes and women&rsquo;s antipathy. Politics is considered a masculine area. There is a belief that women are supposed to be led but not to lead. In some counties, especially in northern Kenya, the tradition continues to emphasise women&rsquo;s primary roles as mothers and housewives, and to restrict them to those roles. They are nothing before men. Some of the countable elected women leaders are perceived as outcasts. The few stronger ones have extreme work-overload that leaves them with little time to nurture the next generation of women leaders. This social status inhibits women from making decisions at all levels. Masculinity has also been associated with leadership and femininity with weakness in these societies. Mentorship is the most powerful way to bring more women into political office.Recruitment by parties and internal primaries also have gendered effects. In most cases, the majority of party members are men. The election officers are men: Those who vote and fight in murky primaries are also men. Parties should, therefore strictly adhere to laws, codes of conduct, and procedures that promote gender equity. This will encourage women and girls to know about their role and place in these parties. Political parties don&rsquo;t have broad-based multi-party membership groups such as the league of women voters. At no any time have I seen a convention of all political parties women leaders. Women, as a result, remain underrepresented in decision-making positions. Kenyans must advocate these reforms. Communities need empowerment to push for demand-driven development plans through elected women. Ngala is the communications officer, Office of the Registrar of Political Parties