The standoff in the selection of Nairobi NASA candidates for the Senate, woman representative and MCA seats threatens to cost the alliance the positions as the affiliate parties maintain hardline stances.The NASA leadership, led by Governor Evans Kidero and Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke has rooted for joint primaries.But ODM gave a direct ticket to Senate aspirant Gabriel Bukachi. Wiper chairman Roy Kivusyu yesterday said they are likely to directly nominate businessman Ramesh Gorasia for the seat. ODM has arranged nominations to pick the woman rep nominee. Kivusyu said Wiper will likely pick Rahab Ndambuki for the seat in the nominations set for Sunday. "Raila [ODM party leader] and Kalonzo [Wiper] have agreed that we should not repeat the 2013 mistakes, but we are likely to. We will not achieve the 13 targeted parliamentary seats if the member parties field candidates separately," Kivusyu said. "Where NASA has 30,000 registered voters and Jubilee 23,000, Jubilee is likely to win if we field more than one candidate because that will split our votes while Jubilee's will be intact." In 2013 Cord fielded separate candidates, splitting its votes and gave the Jubilee coalition victory.Kivusyu said talks on joint selection failed due to bureaucracy and supremacy battles."The issue has been discussed from time to time but no conclusion has been made. We are supposed to have agreed on the candidates line-up by now but we haven't because of power wrangles," he said."We have earmarked six constituencies where we want to field our candidates because of our strength in those constituencies and we want NASA affiliate parties to support us." The constituencies are Embakasi East, Embakasi South, Embakasi West, Kamukunji, Lang'ata and Makadara.Three of the six constituencies are held by ODM MPs, which is causing political competition.Embakasi East, Embakasi South and Lang'ata are held by John Omondi, Irshad Sumra and Joash Olum respectively. Wiper is fielding Fred Musau in Embakasi East, Musili Mawathe in Embakasi South and nominated Senator Judith Sinjeny for Lang'ata.Makadara and Embakasi West are held by JP's Benson Muturi and George Theuri. Wiper wants NASA affiliate parties to support Joshua Kitivi and Kivusyu for the seats. Nairobi ODM chairman George Alandwa is also eying the Makadara MP seat. Wiper is yet to select a candidate for the Kamukunji seat held by JP's Yusuf Hassan but Alandwa said they will support a WIper candidate, and had proposed politician Ibrahim "Johnie" Ahmed for the seat.Alandwa said there was a proposal on joint nominations forwarded to the principals but it was not adopted leaving aspirants in a limbo.He said talks will resume after all the parties in NASA conclude their nominations on April 25, and before submitting the names to the IEBC."We are disappointed [by failure to agree on joint candidates] and we are hoping we will settle the matter after nominations so that we avoid fielding multiple candidates," Alandwa said. But Alandwa said Wiper should content with the deputy governor seat and allow other parties get a share or relinquish it for equality. He said the only constituencies they could settle on Wiper candidates are Embakasi South, Langata and Kamukunji constituencies.