What exactly is happening within NASA, and why are the principals playing their cards so close to their chests? Could chance, destiny, time and circumstance be colluding with an apparently ill fate to ensure ODM leader Raila Odinga never becomes the tenant of State House?The imminent departure of Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s Wiper from the opposition alliance is no longer a matter of conjecture. All indications ominously point to a pending acrimonious divorce, unless, of course, NASA hands him the presidential ticket.Can or will NASA hand him the ticket in the midst of all other competing interests? If so, where would that leave Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, Musalia Mudavadi and, more particularly, Raila? Is Baba prepared to sacrifice his last bullet to one of his partners or has the myth of Sisyphus come back to haunt him?In Greek mythology, the gods condemned Sisyphus to ceaselessly rolling a rock to the top of a mountain, whence the stone would fall back on its own weight. He was eternally condemned to futile and hopeless labour. Raila has run for President a record three times &ndash; 1997, 2007 and 2013.He appeared to be the first among equals in NASA to mount a fourth and, perhaps, final stab at the presidency this year. But that was before Kalonzo, like Shylock, demanded his &ldquo;pound of flesh&rdquo; by unequivocally asking Raila to honour a 2013 memorandum of understanding in which he was to be named presidential flagbearer.This has left Raila between the devil and the deep blue sea. It also has the potential of emboldening Mudavadi and Wetang&rsquo;ula to place their aces on the bargaining table. Indeed, Mudavadi appears set to throw his weight behind Raila, further complicating an already delicate situation.This could be the final straw for Kalonzo, who may leave NASA in a huff. This will, however, guarantee a Jubilee victory. The stone, therefore, appears set to roll back even before the election.The double-barrelled question is what is it that continuously seems to trip Raila every time he appears to be about to ascend to the highest office in the land? His most successful stab at the presidency was in 2007, when he assembled a formidable team under ODM. The closely contested and heavily disputed election led to violence, and, eventually a coalition government was formed in which he was appointed Prime Minister.The Kriegler Commission concluded that the winner was impossible to determine due to irregularities by all parties.During his term as PM he made the fatal political mistake of alienating and parting company with Pentagon members William Ruto, Mudavadi, Charity Ngilu, Najib Balala and Joseph Nyagah. His failure to maintain friendships, political alliances and engender loyalty came back to haunt him in 2013, when his former colleagues ran against him both collectively and individually.History appears to be about to repeat itself as his closest ally since 2013, Kalonzo, appears dead set to bolt if not given the presidential ticket. His departure would seriously jeopardise the math for a NASA victory. Is Kenya&rsquo;s most colourful politician jinxed?The Jubilee dynamic duo of President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto has maintained an impressive and respectable sense of unity. If there have been any differences they have been quietly and effectively ironed out.They must, therefore, be watching events at NASA closely. A parting of ways by even a single NASA member would be music to their ears as the election would fall into their bag. Baba must in the meantime decide on whether to renege on or honour the MoU. Choices have consequences.