Agriculture CS Willy Bett insists there is enough stock of milk powder to last until next month when rains are expected to stabilise farm milk production.Production of raw milk has declined by more than a third because of a prolonged drought, touching off a fierce battle among processors for the produce.New Kenya Co-operative Creameries raised the price of raw milk by Sh8 to Sh43 per litre last month, two days after market leader Brookside increased its prices by Sh5 to Sh42. &ldquo;The good news is that we had excess milk the last season and most of our processors converted it into powder milk. They are now reconstituting the powder milk and availing it to the market,&rdquo; Bett said. &ldquo;The milk which the processors have can last the country until end of the month. By that time, the rains will have come and the production of milk will pick again.&rdquo; The increased producer milk prices has resulted in at least Sh5 rise in retail prices. Nixon Sigey, the New KCC managing director, said there has been a 30 to 40 percent drop on milk production from farmers, but the gap has been filled by powder milk and will last until next month. &ldquo;For the first time in Kenya, the National Strategic Food Reserve which was mainly grains has now included milk, and we were able to convert milk to powdered milk when we had a glut last year,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;This has helped stabilise the supply of milk in the country unlike two or three years ago when consumers were restricted to buying two-packets of milk each whenever there was shortage.&rdquo; National Treasury CS Henry Rotich has allocated Sh1.3 billion for the Strategic Food Reserve in the budget for financial year 2017-18, adding to Sh500 million earlier allocated. Retailer Nakumatt has denied shortage of milk in some of its stores was because of delayed payments to suppliers, alluding it to the prevailing drought conditions. &ldquo;We are made to understand that the drought conditions have constrained production which ultimately limits deliveries to retailers from the processors. The situation has also affected value added products such as butter which is also in short supply,&rdquo; chief marketing officer Andrew Dixon said. &ldquo;The onset of the rains in several parts of the country is expected to normalise the situation in the coming weeks.&rdquo;