A group of Jubilee MCAs were heard asking themselves why President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero &ldquo;are in such a very good relationship.&rdquo; The MCAs say that the cordial relationship between the two leaders may jeopardise Jubilee&rsquo;s chances of winning the city governor position.POLICE in Kilimani, Nairobi, have been put on notice to crack down on a car parts theft syndicate. Residents complain that a local garage run by local youths is the place where car parts are being stolen and later sold. Those in the know say that a group of mechanics at the garage, which is outside Yaya Centre and on Tigoni Road &ndash; have perfected the art of removing crucial parts from clients' cars and replacing them with old ones. The parts are then sold onwards as secondhand. Several high-end cars have had crucial parts removed and when motorists complain, no action is taken by those in charge of the garage. Police have advised residents to shun the garage as they begin investigations.*****A governor aspirant from Bungoma County is a troubled man. The man recently started a WhatsApp group and added a good number of his friends. The WhatsApp group had a total of 80 people, but, two days, 65 people had left. Now he is left with only 15 people. His rivals were heard celebrating the many people that had left the group.*****A senior official at the National Treasury is a man under siege and it's only a matter of time before he is exposed. Our little bird whispers to Corridors that the man, in the rank of a director, may have been a beneficiary of the NYS loot. His juniors are said to be gathering more compelling evidence to nail him. The juniors are said to have stumbled on his account transactions which indicate that he received Sh13 million in 2015. One such deposit was an RTGS of Sh10 million from one of the money laundering suspects to his investment account and a cash deposit of Sh3 million from another suspect.The juniors say they may use other avenues to expose him after the EACC cleared him of complicity in the saga, in spite of overwhelming evidence.***** A senior administration officer at City Hall is under investigation by the EACC. The officer, who was recently busted in a WhatsApp group by Governor Evans Kidero's handlers over his "bad behaviour&rdquo;, is said to pocket Sh25,000 from each of the 85 ward administrators every Friday. It is said that he has been seeking sexual favours with junior female officers and those who reject him are promptly transferred. The officer has now turned to his tribesmen for help.*****