Treasury CS Henry Rotich has ordered the registration for M-Akiba bond to continue as the ministry targets three million registrations ahead of the June main sale.The Treasury plans to issue a Sh4.85 billion bond through the mobile-based platform in June, after successfully testing the waters with Sh150 million pilot sale that was launched on March 23.The d&eacute;but bond- the first of its kind in the world -was oversubscribed two days ahead of close of sale of the three-year paper. It was supposed to close today, but Treasury closed sales on Wednesday after hitting the target with Sh150,039,874.&ldquo;The CS has ordered registration of customers to continue. However, no buys are to be allowed,&rdquo; Treasury said in a statement yesterday.During the just concluded issue, Safaricom dominated in transactions with Sh142 million being transacted through its M-Pesa platform.Its bitter rival Airtel's-airtel Money handled a paltry Sh8 million.&ldquo;The last buy was Sh70,000 on April 5 at 2:04:25 pm from Safaricom. The Last registration was on April 5, 12:03:41pm from Safaricom,&rdquo; Treasury reported. The ministry yesterday said to have the main bond subscribed within the timelines, it requires at least three million registered investors.The initial bond attracted 102,632 investors who registered.&ldquo;You dial *889 and follow prompts. You will get a confirmation message once you have successfully registered. You follow the same procedure to buy.&rdquo; President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to launch the main mobile-based bond in June. The bond&rsquo;s minimum investment is Sh3,000, a move calculated at growing national savings and investments to a third of the gross domestic product as targeted in the Vision 2030 development blueprint. It has an average return of 10 per cent paid every six months.Treasury expects to use the mobile-based bond to mobilise funds for infrastructure development, easing pressure on external borrowing through crowd funding.&ldquo;We will channel these funds towards infrastructure development,&rdquo; Treasury CS Henry Rotich said during the launch, &ldquo;We call upon Kenyans to take up this opportunity and invest in government securities.&rdquo;Rotich however said the bond will not substitute high amounts (with a minimum of Sh 50,000) being done by banks, but will add up to the domestic borrowing. The bond offers a three percentage points advantage over banks, currently giving interest rates at seven per cent after the capping of interest rates on September last year.&ldquo;This product will dramatically change the savings culture and increase products available for saving,&rdquo; Central Bank of Kenya Governor Patrick Njoroge said.The average investment in M-Akiba in the just concluded bond was Sh20,000, the National Treasury's live monitoring unit reported.