Sofapaka and champions Tusker settled for a 2-2 draw in the Kenya Premier League match played at the Thika Municipal Stadium. Rejuvenated &lsquo;Batoto Ba Mungu&rsquo; were first on target, scoring the opener after barely two minute of play through Peter Wanok. The brewers, however drew level courtesy of a header from Michael Khamati before international striker Alan Wanga edged them ahead just before the break. Paul Odhiambo once again levelled the scores in the 53rd minute before Tusker skipper James Situma thwarted his side&rsquo;s chances of taking all three points as he was dismissed with just over an hour played.Geoffrey Kataka effort was enough to give Posta Rangers a narrow 1-0 win over Western Stima. New boys Kariobangi Sharks registered their first victory of the top flight league as they beat fellow promoted outfit, Nzoia United 2-0 at their Sudi Stadium backyard yesterday. Former Nzoia man Bolton Omwenga came back to haunt them as he set up Sharks&rsquo; en-route to victory with the first goal with barely five minutes on the clock.Sharks&rsquo; crowd favourite Patilah Omoto added the second early in the second half to confine Nzoia to their second loss on the trot and in the same breath, halted their three- match losing run. Meanwhile, in the wake of the termination of the broadcast deal between them and Supersports, the Kenyan Premier League have sought to set the record straight. &ldquo;The main reason cited by SuperSport is that &lsquo;the ruling by the Sports Disputes Tribunal subordinates your (KPL) authority to run the Kenyan Premier League to the Football Kenya Federation (FKF),&rdquo; read a statement from KPL CEO Jack Oguda. &ldquo;KPL understands and sympathises with SuperSport on that issue and even shares their concern. KPL has previously emphasised in it&rsquo;s public statements and court petitions that since the FKF elections in February 2016, the biggest problem and threat to stability in Kenyan football has been the repeated failures of the new FKF officials to respect the rule of law and previous agreements and, in particular, the 2015-19 FKF-KPL Agreement signed on September 24, 2015,&rdquo; he added. &ldquo;The main bone of contention was the populist political campaign promise of the new FKF President to unilaterally increase the KPL from 16 to 18 teams. But the real issue was not league size but who decides league size. The FKF president&rsquo;s determination to do so unilaterally was a blatant violation of the spirit and letter of the FKF-KPL Agreement,&rdquo; the statement further read. FKF President Nick Mwendwa has rebuffed the KPL claims and is set for meetings this week to try and see if the deal can be rescued.