Mikwa is a journalist by profession and a practising communications specialist.He has practised journalism as a reporter and also a teacher in various middle-level colleges and one of the public universities in the country.He is also a PhD student in communication studies.He has a tight schedule and a young family to tend to.4.30&ndash;6.30AM: I wake up and do my morning prayers. I then drink at least two glasses of warm water. This keeps me alert as I go through social media, both personal and university blogs, including the university website, to ensure all is okay.I love early morning showers, especially if warm. I grab a warm shower and take my breakfast, which normally comprises of fruits, milk, vegetables and Weetabix. I leave my house for work by latest 6.30am, and by 7am, I am already in the office.7-9.30AM: I read through the newspapers to get the news. I also check and respond to emails, work on any requests on my desk and make official calls.9.30AM-5PM: This is basically my work time. My day revolves around communications, both internal and externally. As a trained journalist, I also do lots of writing and attending university functions to ensure reporting of such is accurate and portrays the university in good light. With my job, I cannot avoid to ensure I am always getting updated on any breaking news, trending topics and news alerts.5-9PM: this is time for business meetings and evening functions, if any. I do lots of networking because of the nature of my job. You&rsquo;ve got to do proper networking and be a friend to almost everyone. At no point in time as a PR practitioner should you not know someone almost everywhere when the need arises. I must have reliable networks.When I don&rsquo;t have such meetings, I am indoors, either doing personal classwork assignments or reading. I spend this time to equally get through the evening with my family, especially my little daughter, who is almost three years now. For my supper, I love it when I do well-cooked githeri with green vegetables; I avoid meat as much as possible.WEEKENDS:I love spending the weekend with my family and travelling. This is especially when I have no corporate event to attend. My weekends can be a bit crazy, with lots of CSR activities to attend to.On Sundays, I attend mass with my family, any obligatory church meetings, and spend an afternoon out with them. I find lots of fun hanging out with my family over the weekends. It&rsquo;s so fulfilling and touching.I am mostly inspired by Immanuel Kant. I like going through his philosophical works, especially Critique of Practical Reason and Critique of Pure Reason. They are quite a challenge to reasoning.