Serena Williams is pregnant with her first baby.The tennis star, 35, made the announcement on Wednesday where she showed off her pregnant belly on Snapchat. Williams wore a yellow swimsuit and said she was 20 weeks along.The athlete is engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, 33. Serena had a small baby bump, which she showed in profile as she held up her phone to a mirror.The suit had two gold buttons and a cut out on the side with narrow straps.The beauty has been engaged to Alexis since December 2016. He proposed with a large diamond ring, which she showed off in January. They had been dating for only 15 months before he got down on one knee."It feels good,' she said of the engagement in January."I really haven&rsquo;t thought about it too much, because I wasn&rsquo;t even really gonna think about it until after the tournament."So, I just keep saying, 'February, I&rsquo;ll start looking at the bigger picture of my life.' But right now I&rsquo;m just so focused that this is all I can think about."She also spoke glowingly of her husband-to-be: "He&rsquo;s incredibly &mdash; a really nice person," she said. "I think he definitely treats everyone the same, which is really cool to see. Really, really nice to see."Williams, a 22-time Grand Slam champion, has been romantically linked in the past to Grigor Dimitrov, Patrick Mouratoglou, Amar'e Stoudemire, Hosea Chanchez, Jackie Long, Common, Colin Farrell, and Drake, among others.Williams is quite a catch for Alexis.She is one of the most recognized female athletes in the world: The Women's Tennis Association (WTA) has ranked her world No. 1 in singles on seven occasions, from 2002 to 2017.The Florida resident also holds the most major titles in singles, doubles, and mixed doubles combined amongst active players.The tennis ace is very wealth, too: according to Forbes, she is worth $150m.Williams was born in Saginaw, Michigan, to Richard Williams and Oracene Price, and is the youngest of Price's five daughters: half-sisters Yetunde, Lyndrea and Isha Price, and full sister Venus.She moved to LA's rough Compton neighborhood when she was still a toddler. When her career took off, the family moved to Florida.Serena has made tennis the focus of her career, even though she has appeared on several TV shows (The Bernie Mac Show, ER and Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit) and oversees a fashion line.But now the star will have to take time off from the game, which she has rarely done since she started competing as a child.