In every election, there are candidates who declare their candidacy for political seats yet all indications clearly show they don&rsquo;t stand any chance. Such candidates either push their faith or exaggerate their skills to get the seat. In the US presidential elections, the fringe candidates ranged from the Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein to the Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, who both hoped to supplant the existing and established juggernauts of Hillary Clinton, the Democrats nominee and the now US President, Donald Trump, who was the Republican challenger. In the last general election in Kenya, the fringe presidential candidates ranged from Peter Kenneth, Martha Karua, Abduba Dida, James ole Kiyiapi to Paul Muite. Their candidacy presented no formidable threat against the candidacies of Uhuru Kenyatta and or Raila Odinga, who both command a clout that runs in the millions and an impassioned and loyal support group countrywide. In the coming election, it seems the fringe candidates; this time will include former Director of Public Prosecutions Philip Murgor, former Committee of Experts member Dr Ekuru Aukot and the ever comical and philosophical Dida.There is an old African proverb that says, &ldquo;If you want to go fast, walk alone. And if you want to go far, walk with others.&rdquo; Unity of purpose against an existential threat has never failed in the quest for results. The late Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Prof Wangari Maathai once quipped how after the reintroduction of multiparty politics in Kenya in 1992, she was one of the reformers and activists who were adamant and keen on reigning on the opposition figures to field one presidential candidate to face President Daniel Moi, whose regime was autocratic and anti-progressive.As it turned out, the opposition figures were reluctant to field a joint candidate, leading to a smooth victory by President Moi, albeit rigging allegations. The same happened in 1997 when the celebrated intellectual and environmentalist was one of the activists who pressed upon the leading opposition figures to field one candidate to face Moi. Again, that idea was thrown out as the five leading opposition luminaries split the votes giving Moi another term.If the same trend were used in 2002, for sure Kanu&rsquo;s candidate Uhuru Kenyatta would have been the Third President, with Musalia Mudavadi as the vice president.The candidacies of Murgor, Aukot, et al are refreshing because they are strictly issue-based and informed by the social democratic ideology. These are ideologues, just like the candidacies of Kenneth, Karua, Kiyiapi and Dida in 2013. Imagine if the latter aforementioned group fronted a singular candidate that would have been a watershed in Kenya&rsquo;s political history. Obviously they would not have won but at least, they would have had a significant chunk of legislative seats or even governors. From that a groundswell of issue-based politics would have been sparked. The establishment would have been shaken and taken notice of the unfolding events.Given that it is obvious even to the dead and the unborn that the August 8 presidential race is going to be between Jubilee&rsquo;s Uhuru Kenyatta and the NASA candidate (likely to be Raila Odinga), what if the fringe candidates front one candidate to face the two leading political juggernauts? Their message and candidacy would be felt countrywide. They would have lit a fire of hope and progress in Kenya. As it is now, the country is shackled between choosing the scions of political dynasties, and this is partly attributed to the myopia and selfishness of the fringe candidates.