Kenya Investment Authority started the consultative process for the revised draft Kenya Investment Policy in a bid to grow domestic and trade flows. Through the proposed policy, the country is targeting to double private sector investment to 24 per cent of the gross domestic product and manufacturing to 20 per cent. Kenya's Foreign Direct Investments were valued at about Sh144 billion ($1.4 billion) in 2015, according to KenInvest data. Kenya's FDI inflows per capita are at Sh1,422 (US$13.8) is, however, lower than East Africa's average of Sh2,515 ($24.4) per capita.Tanzania&rsquo;s is almost three times Kenya&rsquo;s FDI per capita at Sh3,639 ($35.3), while Mozambique's is Sh19,135 ($185.6), KenInvest managing director Moses Ikiara said. The draft, presented to the private sector yesterday, seeks to consolidate various laws and regulations into one. The draft also seeks to address issues on local content, community participation in projects, regional integration , investor protection and set rules on how foreign firms will conduct their business in Kenya. It also touches on movement of labour, access to land, incentives and facilitation. It further pushes for conditional incentives for foreign firms based on the impact the investment will have on Kenya's economy, including job opportunities. &ldquo;For the first time, we are looking at investments in a holistic way. We want to look at all existing laws and realign them with the policy,&rdquo; Ikiara told the Star in an interview. He said the draft is expected to be transformed into a sessional paper before end of April for Cabinet adoption. &ldquo;If all goes well, by May we should be through with the process. We are meeting parliamentary committee on Finance, Trade and Investments and the Committee for Council of Governors tomorrow (today),&rdquo; Ikiara said. The draft also seeks to create a fair playing ground for both foreigners and locals, empowering domestic Small and Medium Enterprises and enhance community and county engagement on investments. &ldquo;The government shall periodically review, at least once every two years, existing incentives to evaluate their effectiveness against the following criteria:benefit to local communities, track record in attracting and retaining investors, impact on government revenues, impact on environment,&rdquo; the policy statement reads in part.The policy is crafted towards government&rsquo;s target of top 50 in the ease of doing business by 2020. Kenya is currently ranked 92nd globally in the latest World Bank report.In 2015, Kenya attracted $1.4 billion (about Sh144.41 billion) in foreign direct inflows.Last week, Treasury CS Henry Rotich in his budget speech announced a number of tax incentives aimed at attracting foreign investments.