Siaya county teachers, lead by Knut officials, have endorsed Governor Cornel Rasanga for a second term in office.Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said teachers will support individuals in the election, not in the primaries.He spoke during the signing of a deal between the county and early childhood education teachers in Siaya. Sossion appealed to the teachers to consider Rasanga in the August 8 polls. The secretary general said teachers are of sound character and have no time to waste in supporting parties when most of them are based on ethnic affiliations.&ldquo;As teachers, we support all governors, regardless of their political affiliation or party as long as they support teachers,&rdquo; said Sossion. The secretary general said he will mobilise all teachers to ensure ill-behaved politicians are taught a lesson for going against their grievances. He said Rasanga is one of the governors who has developed a healthy relationship with teachers and deserves a second chance to allow the proper transition of ECDE teachers he adopted. The Siaya county government has employed more than 300 ECDE teachers on a permanent and pensionable basis in a span of four years. Sossion said out of the 47 governors, only Bomet, Siaya and Kisii have shown a good working relationship with teachers.Last year Rasanga sponsored the Siaya Primary mock examination papers, which carried his image, putting him in an awkward situation with some education stakeholders.But on Friday, the Knut secretary general commended the move, urging the governor to sponsor another exam, but with a different title, not mock. He said there was nothing wrong in having Rasanga&rsquo;s photo on the exam papers. Sossion said teachers want to cement their working relationship with governors to see if the administration can increase allocation for ECDE centres and teachers. Siaya Knut secretary Clement Omollo assured Rasanga of their support at the August election.Omollo said his support for Rasanga intensified after he sponsored the county examinations, barely three years in office.He said teachers will only vote for leaders who supported them during their last strike. &ldquo;Not all elected leaders supported our strike. Those who were reluctant to support us will be treated the same way they treated the teachers,&rdquo; Omollo said. He urged the national government to convert CDF money to purely support education infrastructure and be placed under the county government.