A year ago, many considered Bandari to be real contenders for the Sportpesa Premier League title. The sea-siders had just won the GOtv Shield and had assembled what looked like a formidable squad on paper&mdash;capable of challenging for top honours.Far from it though, Bandari fell far short on their target and had to fend off real threat of relegation, culminating in the sacking of the coach Twahir Muhiddin. Now with no real pressure, they find themselves comfortably perched at the top of the league table with seven points from three matches and looking every inch as title dark horses.Dan Sserunkuma finally made an appearance on the score sheet this season, guiding home Noah Abich&rsquo;s delivery in the 32nd minute.Muhoroni fell further behind in the 60th minute when Bandari striker Shaaban Kenga&rsquo;s awkward shot bounced off Muhoroni&rsquo;s Jacob Faina into the net.Much traveled Musa Mudde then put the result beyond doubt late in the 87th minute after making the most of a goal keeping mishap by Salim Sowedi. Hot on the heels of the dockers are AFC Leopards, the only side with 100 percent record after a couple of matches. Ingwe beat Nzoia Sugar 2-1 to get their sixth point to their infant campaign.Striker Elvis Rupia handed electrifying Nzoia a fine start in the 12th minute after being put through by Masita Masuta. Gilbert Fiamenyo equalised for Ingwe in the 49th minute, beating goalkeeper Benson Mangala with a low shot, for his second goal of the season, after some good work by Duncan Otieno.Otieno was again provider in the 68th minute when he floated in a corner&mdash;connected home with aplomb by Allan Katerrega. It was a sweet weekend for Ingwe as their arch rivals Gor Mahia lost 2-1 to Western Stima despite taking the lead.Rwandan Jacques Tuyisenge converted his own penalty for Gor Mahia early in the first half after he had been brought down inside the danger area by his former team-mate Jackson Saleh to win a spot-kick award.Stima replied in the 67th minute with a penalty of their own, drilled home by Fredrick Shimonyo, who then rounded up a fine outing for himself and Stima, nodding in his match winning second goal. Sofapaka celebrated their new sponsorship with their second victory beating Mathare United 2-1. George Maelo headed in Charles Okwemba&rsquo;s free kick delivery midway through the first half. Former Bandari man Humphrey Okoti doubled the scores for the visiting team minutes into the second half. Sofapaka looked to be running away with the game but Tyson Otieno pulled a goal back for Mathare deep in the game. Sony Sugar too have six points after a late Amos Asembeka goal gave them a 1-0 win over Thika United.