In September of 2015, the United Nations unveiled the Sustainable Development Goals replacing the Millennium Development Goals. The successes and failures of the MDGs varied across different countries and the SDGs have given nations a second chance to correct their past shortcomings. When one looks at the new blueprint, it is clear that African countries stand to gain the most from its timely implementation, simply because our African and Asian countries house the largest number of people living in poverty. The SDGs need thorough digestion into units that policy makers and citizens will readily absorb. The Agricultural expert, the entrepreneur and the health worker must, for instance, appreciate the connection between the SDGs and their respective sectors. They must be able to see their work as a necessary component of the lofty goals and this is better pursued at this early stage of the SDGs implementation timetable. The primacy of health in the sustainable goals is noticeable; in fact all the seventeen goals have a health component either directly or indirectly. It is, however, the third sustainable goal that focuses on the need to promote good health and wellbeing for all at all ages. Part four of the same goal specifically talks about mental health. Mental health experts have celebrated these direct inclusions of mental health components in the SDGs that were missing in the MDGs.Strengthening focus on mental health Whereas health is often understood in everyday conversation to mean "physical" health, the drafters of the SDGs did well to avoid the pitfall by including "promotion of mental health and wellbeing" within the third sustainable goal. The goal further urges for national strategies that "strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol". The direct inclusion of mental health in the SDGs is of great importance because mental illness is only emerging from a past of severe stigmatisation. The journey towards inclusive prosperity must be accompanied by a renewed effort to end stigma against millions of patients afflicted by mental illnesses. There are many indicators to show that the future of mental health will be more dignified than the past. The World Health Organization seems to be keen on this future. The World health day commemorates the formation of WHO in 1948. The selected theme for 2017 is &lsquo;Depression, lets talk.&rsquo; This theme will certainly open a new front of interest in mental health in general and depression in particular. Preventing and treating mental illnesses such as depression results in accelerated development. A mentally healthy citizen is able to study, form relationships and engage in work that contributes towards economic growth of the community and nation. The direct consequence of economic growth at the individual and community level is poverty reduction.Relationship between mental and physical health A relationship exists between mental health and physical illnesses. A person who has diabetes with depression fares worse than one who has diabetes alone. Therefore by treating the depression in addition to the diabetes, life is not only prolonged but its quality is vastly improved. Research has shown that treating mental illness where there is co-morbidity with conditions such as cancer and HIV has tremendous impact on the quality of life for the patients ranging from improved adherence to medication to a stronger immunity. It is commendable that in the 2016 guidelines for prevention and treatment of HIV, NASCOP has included mental health components such as assessment and treatment of depression.This is the prime time to talk about depression. It is known that as many as two thirds of people with depression do not realise that they have a treatable illness and therefore do not seek professional help. This paucity of knowledge does not, however, protect those affected by depression from the severe consequences of the disease. The gravest outcome of depression is suicide, the leading cause of death in persons aged 15-29 years. Suicide accounts for 800,000 deaths every year globally. Three out of four of suicide deaths occur in low and middle income countries such as Kenya. The unfortunate misconception that mental illness has a spiritual origin either as a family curse, punishment for mistakes done or demon possession often leads to unnecessary delay in seeking the correct interventions. Patients are brought to hospital only as a last resort after many, fruitless visits to spiritual healers. However, scientific research has shown that the various modes of treatment that often encompass physical, psychological and social interventions do work. We must shatter the foggy myths and superstitions that hinder access to the highest attainable standard of mental health. It is clear that the economic returns of treating mental illnesses like depression are massive while the consequences of ignoring that reality are dire. The connection therefore between the promotion of mental health and the attainment of the sustainable development goals is obvious. In this regard, the choice of depression as the theme for the world health day 2017 is laudable. Dr Chitayi Murabula is a resident psychiatrist and mental health advocate