QUESTIONS abound over the low-profile Rachel Ruto (pictured), the wife of Deputy President William Ruto has taken. Rachel is known for a successful initiative &mdash; table banking &mdash; which she promoted across the country. She is hardly seen in public and her supporters are concerned. She was last seen in public at State House in February when she accompanied American Pentecostal Evangelist Dr Morris Cerullo. Not much has been coming from her press service. ***** IS President Uhuru Kenyatta sincere on directing his Jubilee brigades in the National Assembly to pass the contentious two-thirds gender rule Bill by next month? The question many are asking is why the President did not bulldoze his Jubilee MPs to pass the Bill in the last two attempts. He did the same last year when MPs vowed not to pass the 2016-17 Budget until they were assured of their Sh35 billion CDF money. Women organisations, including Kenya Women Parliamentary Association and the National Gender and Equality Commission, have accused Uhuru&rsquo;s administration of not showing political goodwill to have the law realised. They wonder why Jubilee&rsquo;s tyranny of numbers in both Houses has not been capitalised on to have more women in political leadership. ***** NASA principals&rsquo; failure to name the flag -bearer to face President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 8 has not only caused anxiety in the country, but also put the Bungoma governor contest into a disarray. Word has it that two NASA aspirants, Alfred Khang&rsquo;ati (ODM) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Ford Kenya), are keen on unseating Governor Kenneth Lusaka. They are in a fix and uncertain if they will use the coalition&rsquo;s ticket to send the JP incumbent home. It is said their hopes may be shuttered if Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula joins the governor race after the naming of NASA flag bearer. Wangamati and Khang&rsquo;ati are eager to know Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s next move so they can decide their political future.***** STILL on matters to do with NASA ,the process of picking a flag bearer continues to prove more difficult than earlier thought. Corridors is told the NASA principals have agreed on a high-flying team of four internationally eminent people to help the coalition navigate through this endless headache. The team of mediators will be chaired by former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo and will include Rebecca Garang, former German chancellor Gerhard Schroedder, British Liberal MP Nick Clegg and former US Ambassador Johnnie Carson. The Obasanjo team has been given 14 days to help NASA pick a Presidential candidate to face Uhuru Kenyatta in the August elections.