During the past few weeks, Kenyan news followers have been fed a steady diet of an on-going political drama that pits the Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and a number of autonomous and independent state institutions. The Kenya Revenue Authority, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and the Kenya National Examinations Council are all after Joho — at the same time. In sum, the governor’s businesses, finances, taxation and education records have all been the subject of scrutiny and investigations, coming hot on the heels of a recent warning to him by President Uhuru Kenyatta that “tutamuonyesha” (we will show him), for his unending criticisms of the Jubilee administration. One hardly fails to notice the consistency of the duel. On September 8, 2016, Uhuru announced the establishment of a new party, the Jubilee Party, whose ticket he will use to run for President on August 8. On the same day, ODM was celebrating its 10th anniversary in Mombasa, and the party hired 47 ODM-branded buses to transport party delegates from all over Kenya to the event. It is believed that Joho paid for the buses and the entire event. More significantly, ODM’s decision to celebrate its 10th birthday in Mombasa, and the announcement by Joho during the event that he will personally lead the presidential campaign for Raila Odinga, presents a watershed, given that coastal politicians (and the Coast region itself) have historically been distant from power, wealth and influence. This recent elevation of Joho within ODM, and of others such as Nominated Senator Agnes Zani (ODM secretary general) — including that of Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar as secretary general of the Wiper party — has not only firmly placed these politicians at the heart of the cog that will drive the wheel of opposition politics in this year’s election, but is also likely to excite local electoral participation on the Coast. During 2010 and 2011, a secessionist campaign led by the Mombasa Republican Council had dominated debates about coastal politics. As a vivid expression of coastal grievances, the call for secession evidently attracted a degree of sympathy. The sense that the Coast had lost out was widespread, and an opinion poll in 2013 by Ipsos Synovate showed that the Coast was the only one of the former provinces of Kenya in which a majority believed that they were worse off than in 2007. A striking feature of the 2012 and 2013 debates was the way in which the MRC became the central discursive thread through which ‘upcountry’ Kenya debated with and about ‘the Coast’, in a language which was often accusatory or recriminatory. Participants on both sides of that debate repeatedly invoked two contrasting images of Kenya: As the inclusive nation which embraces the Coast, and as a distinctive upcountry world which is culturally and politically remote. The secessionist demand by the MRC was the latest in a series of two strands of coastal opposition politics towards the Kenyan national project – one which is steeped in nativist politics and the other in politicised readings of Islam – both of which have origins before the mid-20th Century. Both strands have appealed to and sought to mobilise an alternative political community by presenting two contrasting images of ‘Coast’ and ‘upcountry’, and of contrasting ideas of modernity and backwardness, of Christianity and Islam, and of notions of inclusion and exclusion. In addition, the emergence of the MRC, and of reports of extremist recruitment for Somalia-based al Shabaab through a number of mosques in Mombasa, both came at a time when the Coast lacked a powerful (even symbolic) figurehead at the national political level – between the time of the death of Karisa Maitha in 2004, an influential former Kisauni MP and Cabinet minister, and the recent emergence of Joho as Raila’s deputy in ODM. In Kenya, the negotiation of ‘ethno-regionalism’ usually relates with everyday perceptions of how political representation and redistribution actually work. This means that the lack of a strong coastal political figurehead in national politics had served to instil a wide degree of political apathy and disillusionment with the promise of national politics. Maitha had arrived on the national political scene when NARC, the coalition led by Mwai Kibaki, came to power in 2002, replacing a 39-year-old regime under President Daniel arap Moi, at State House for 24 of those years. Within Narc, Maitha, and another coastal politician, Najib Balala, became the Coast’s point men, and went on to become important Cabinet ministers in Kibaki’s first council of ministers. In 2005, 80% of coastal voters rejected a proposed constitution supported by Kibaki’s faction of the NARC administration due to what was perceived as watered-down provisions on strong decentralization and localized control of minerals and ports. It was after 2005 that the emerging opposition to Kibaki, the Orange Democratic Movement, by Raila, decisively captured the then Coast Province. During the 2007 general election, all coastal politicians who had joined Kibaki’s government after the 2005 referendum lost their parliamentary seats, except for Ali Mwakwere whose election was successfully petitioned. This left Balala as the Coast’s most senior politician within ODM, a party that formed a grand coalition government with Kibaki’s Party of National Unity after the presidential election results of 2007 were violently disputed. The grand coalition’s Cabinet appointments illuminated the insignificance of coastal politicians within government. Both  Mwakwere and Balala were appointed to the Cabinet. And in addition to the appointments of Amason Kingi (then a coastal MP) and  Naomi Shaban (Taveta MP), the Coast region received only 10 per cent of the positions in the grand coalition Cabinet. In addition, there were wide perceptions on the Coast that these ministers, including Balala, owed most of their allegiance to their parties and to their appointing authorities rather than to their electorate, as was demonstrated by their constant inability to take unified stands on matters affecting coastal residents. As Coast MPs paid more attention to national political debates involving the Kibaki succession in Nairobi, the issues that had the greatest effect on those who consider themselves as indigenous to the reported persisted unabated.  DEVOLUTION AND THE RISE OF JOHO In 2013, political devolution, introduced in Kenya through the new Constitution of 2010, instilled a renewed sense of hope, and more coastal voters were attracted to the polls than had been the case since 1992. At the last election in 2013, which also brought into existence the first 47 county governments in Kenya, there was the first promise, at the local level, of real executive power, access to local government tenders, public sector jobs, more tarmacked roads, and more jobs at the Port of Mombasa where locals have competed with other Kenyans for access to employment, with locals claiming primacy.