The credibility of an election is determined not only by how free, fair and just it is, but also how it is perceived by the diverse stakeholders, most notably, the voters. Political competition in Kenya is rarely just. More often than not, it simply depends on who can cause the greatest mayhem, bribe the most, or execute one malpractice or another.Paraphrased, Kriegler&rsquo;s report on the 2007-08 post-election violence states, &lsquo;both sides rigged, what we may never know is who rigged more than the other&rsquo;.In my more than 30 years in elective politics, first as a student at the University of Nairobi in the early '80s, and more recently as a presidential running mate, I have gleaned at least 100 different ways to rig or unrig (stop rigging) elections. While there has been much talk around election credibility, I'm yet to see a scientific study on the major ways to contain election rigging.I believe the following are the five most impactful ways to rig, and, therefore, unrig elections, if we are to see truly credible, free and fair polls any day soon. They are given in order of significance, the first being the most critical:National IDs and citizenship: An election that deliberately and structurally disenfranchises 30 per cent of eligible voters cannot under any circumstance be free, fair and credible.I estimate that about 15 per cent (or two million) of Kenyans are excluded because they do not have the requisite nationality documents to register as voters. This group is made up of newly married women (often sent back to maiden homes to get parents documents), those who have applied for IDs but have not got them or collected them, those in border counties who face higher thresholds to acquire these documents, those displaced during the electoral period and therefore cannot register or vote (including prisoners or those hospitalised), those who have turned 18 between the time of voter registration and voting day, etc.The other 15 per cent are non-resident Kenyans aka diaspora, estimated at three million by government statistics. Of these, the bulk majority (roughly two million) are of voting age, including students. To improve on universal suffrage and credibility of elections, legislation is required for these two categories of citizens.Money and elections: Corruption has reached unprecedented levels. It is largely being fuelled by the role of money in politics, especially elections.It is clear that political office (both elected and appointed) has become a preserve of the nouveau riche. The days when poor or modestly endowed people were elected to Parliament are gone. So are when one was elected purely on ability to effectively represent constituents. Kenya&rsquo;s politics has become hopelessly commercialised.While some opine that most of the 47 governors will be voted out, I actually think not. Most have amassed such vast wealth that few simple mortals not in their league will be able to match them shilling for shilling. This not to mention the (mis)use of state or county resources for partisan purposes.Voter bribery too has become the norm. The Capping of Campaign Finance Law was a good start, even though the limits were abnormal. It is unfortunate that it has been shelved for now. Activating this law will solve most of our governance problems.Party primaries: In some areas (notably Central, Nyanza and parts of Rift Valley), party nominations are the actual election. Most rigging happens at this stage, yet hardly any attention is paid to it, especially by election observers.Of concern is the lack of fairness and transparency, particularly in the major parties. Political parties are funded by the taxpayer; do they ever declare how much money is collected &ndash; officially and otherwise, from aspirants? Worst are the parties that hawk certificates: An aspirant pays Sh5 million, issued with a certificate, but 10 minutes later a competitor comes with Sh10 million and carries the day. Not surprisingly, some parties are opposed to the IEBC conducting (or supervising) primaries, even when paid by the Exchequer. The Constitution allows for it, let&rsquo;s cleanse party primaries.Compliance and enforcement: All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. This is impunity at its best. A friend confided he (it&rsquo;s always a he) is certain to win because if anyone tries to rig him out, he will cause mayhem never seen before. Kenya has its untouchables. We have seen blatant premature campaigns, but does the IEBC really have the mettle to stop it? The easier route is the excuse &lsquo;they are mobilising voters to register&rsquo;.Really &ndash; even with billboards and other regalia donned all over? Suppose the two leading presidential contenders &ndash; the President and former Prime Minister &ndash; violated the Electoral Code, does the IEBC have the wherewithal to disqualify them? Fidelity to the law must be non-negotiable. Most worrying is the unexplained extrajudicial killings, which seem to be politically instigated; these must stop.Technology in elections: Ordinarily, the ICT sector should celebrate the unprecedented conversation around electoral technologies. After all, isn&rsquo;t that what they have advocated over the years? Manual or electronic backup has dominated the scene lately.But if we all aspire for &lsquo;digital&rsquo;, why not go the whole hog? Why only electronic (biometric) registration, identification and results transmission? Why not also electronic voting (after all doesn&rsquo;t M-Vote/M-Kura already exist), validation, tallying, verification, display and results declaration? Please don&rsquo;t ask which country has ever done this; which did before Kenya introduced mobile money?More importantly, how credible are our electoral systems? It isn&rsquo;t rocket science to hack a system or develop an algorithm to falsify results. Then there is the role of M-Pesa, social media, FM vernacular radios, and other communication technologies in elections. Though not entirely foolproof, electronic systems are less prone to rigging than their manual counterparts, particularly if entrusted to credible handlers.Dr Ochuodho is former Rangwe MP