Smallholder avocado farmers in Murang&rsquo;a plan to launch a co-operative society next week to help them market and export the produce directly to the European Union market. The move follows the intervention of the county government that last year started distributing free seedlings of the commercially viable Hass cultivar avocado, which has high demand in the European market. About 30,000 farmers are estimated to have benefitted from the scheme with the fist crop expected at the end of this year. &ldquo;We are sure avocado will overtake coffee as the most important cash crop in Murang&rsquo;a once we complete the whole cycle and start exporting to Europe,&rdquo; Murang&rsquo;a governor Mwangi wa Iria said. The new co-operative is expected to begin working to improve access to planting materials and technical services, including post-harvest and logistics support to ensure the delivery of high-quality produce. Studies by experts have shown that central Kenya is better placed to produce high-quality avocado, because the variety produced in the region has high concentration of oil and wax. Avocado production has been on the rise driven by demand from Europe and growing demand for the fruit in the local market. &ldquo;Avocado consumption in Kenya stands at between two to three kilogrammes annually per head , below the European average of 10 to 15 kilos per year,&rdquo; the governor said in an interview. &ldquo;Kenya produces about 115 metric tonnes of avocado annually, 70 percent of which is grown by small-scale farmers.&rdquo; Until four years ago, most of avocado produce was being sold in the local market and a small quantity exported to the Middle East. Farmers&rsquo; biggest complaint has been against brokers who buy the product cheaply but sell it expensively. Lameck Njoroge, who benefitted from the free avocado seedlings last year, said that the increased demand has convinced him to start transitioning from banana and coffee plants to more avocado trees. &ldquo;Avocados have given me extra income from the sales of the fruit to Kakuzi Limited and other companies that now buy at improved prices. This provides food for the family,&rdquo; he said. Njoroge has harvested 200 kilogrammes from his small plot in the past two years.