Wiper&rsquo;s Mombasa primaries were called off yesterday because of violence, confusion and police gunfire to break up an unruly crowd.Police and GSU officers were in patrol.Turnout was low.Voters were outraged over a series of problems, included the disputed party register.Irregularities and missing names gave rise to allegations the nominations were designed to fail, allowing officials to handpick their favourites.Police fired in the air to disperse youths at Ziwa La Ng&rsquo;ombe, where chaos erupted over claims the list had been manipulated.Many Wiper supporters found their names missing from the new party register. Because of this, anyone with a Wiper card and a national ID was allowed to vote.They expressed fears that some party cards used were fake and asked why cards were distributed in large numbers.Returning officers registered unlisted members manually and issued them with ballot papers &mdash; calling the credibility of the process into question.It was difficult to distinguish genuine members from intruders trying to influence the outcome of the primaries, to favour some hopefuls or other parties.Poll clerks did not counter-check or corroborate particulars of those whose names were not in the party list. Nonetheless, they ended up voting.Some members complained the party used its 2011-12 list, instead of the current one.New cards have new serial numbers. The old cards were trashed, once new ones were issued.However, the register had no details of the new cards. It had serial numbers of Wiper cards used in the 2012-13 nominations, indicating the register was not current.For instance, Wiper Mombasa coordinator Afya Rahma&rsquo;s card used in the 2012-13 nomination bore serial number 0K6622. The serial number of his current card is 0239962. The list used had the 2013 serial number.It appeared the register was not updated. Party supporters were outraged.Secretary general Hassan Omar had assured that the party list made available to the Registrar of Political Parties would be used.But some election officials could not confirm this.Mvita returning officer Jackson Kimami said he was not sure which list was in use.&ldquo;The register distributed nationwide contains anomalies,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;A manually written list will be attached to the genuine one and handed over to the board.&rdquo;At the centre of all these controversies was Wiper National Elections Board vice chairman Halfan Shikeli.Rahma alleged he was being hosted at Omar&rsquo;s private office and might have been compromised.The Star sought Shikeli&rsquo;s comment but numerous calls went unanswered. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s supposed to be in a neutral office. How will those feuding with Omar access him?&rdquo; Rahma asked.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ll not accept glaring theft,&rdquo; Mac Ouma, a Nyali MP aspirant, said.&ldquo;NEB was supposed to issue an updated list Saturday. They failed. This fiasco could have been avoided. There is no nomination at Ziwa La Ng&rsquo;ombe.&rdquo;Similar confusion and anger were witnessed at other polling stations. Many hopefuls did not know where tallying would take place.Some hopefuls blamed party officials for the mess and said money might have exchanged hands.The confusion and mistrust over the nominations worsened on Monday, when Omar said he favoured nomination of those who have been campaigning for him.Omar also said aspirants taking part in or planning chaos would be automatically disqualified, not fined.