The NASA Technical Committee settled on ODM leader Raila Odinga as the presidential candidate and Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate.But it is now up to the four NASA principals &mdash; Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula &mdash; to decide on the final line up through concesus, in the wake of Kalonzo&rsquo;s insistence he has to be on the ballot..But many political analysts are feigning ignorance as to why the Wiper hardman is playing hard ball on his NASA counterparts.Based on party political and voting landscape, the answer is as clear as the blue sky.You need to take a tally of the voting patterns and political leanings in 2013 to understand this.As Raila&rsquo;s running mate, he was tasked with the role of locking out Jubillee from the increasingly populous Ukambani vote basket and Coast, whose inhabitants are 40 per cent Kamba.His report card in 2013 showed an almost 100 per cent delivery.The Kamba nation voting pattern indicates Kalonzo was and is still the darling of his community. In Makueni, Raila received 99.1 per cent, bagging 250,048 votes. In Machakos, he got 367, 238, a percentage return of 98.7 per cent. The cumulative vote from Ukambani delivered by Kalonzo was 96 per cent. Raila, the Cord presidential candidate, delivered around the same figures in his Nyanza backyard, if not less.Given that Kalonzo signed an MoU with the ODM leader, committing the latter to one-term Presidential attempt, the Tseikuru man has a cutting edge in his fight for the NASA ticket against Raila.Although Mudavadi is also fighting for the same seat, the odds are heavily against him mainly because he appears to get active politically just around the polls. The fact that Mudavadi has exhibited traits of indecision when faced with critical political head winds also work against his claim for the NASA ticket. For the first time ever, Kalonzo appears to have launched a credible crusade to galvanise the Ukambani vote bloc around him.He has lately covered fresh grounds in the national politics despite heavy bickering for down-ballot in the three counties of Ukambani.A spot check last week confirmed that the Wiper leader&rsquo;s bid to occupy State House has the support of the community. But he has to clinch the NASA ticket or go it alone for the community to fully rally behind him.Part of the reason why Raila got 99.9 per cent of votes cast in Lower Eastern was because the Kamba nation felt slighted by President Mwai Kibaki.Make no mistake about this. Kambas see 2017 as a crunch year politically and will take decisions that make sense to the community&rsquo;s well being.The narrative last week in surveyed areas of Wote, Kitui, Mbooni, Mwingi and Kitui is that the community is tired of being treated as political touts: It&rsquo;s spoiling for a fight. Minority leader Francis Nyenze has emerged as the political anchor for Kalonzo&rsquo;s NASA bid.Nyenze reminded Raila variously that he signed an irrevocable MoU with Kalonzo, which he must now honour.The Minority leader also reminded close allies of Raila that he hosted the late Jaramongi Oginga in his house in 1992 and supported him, and now wants the same accorded to Kalonzo by the Odingas. Incidentally, Nyenze holds the distinction of being the first politician to host a sitting head of state after former President Daniel Moi spent a night at his house in 1997.He has told close friends that he could repeat the feat by hosting Kalonzo should NASA nominate the Wiper supremo.Of course, Raila supporters are not daft. They have drawn a counter strategy and are currently spreading propaganda that Jubilee had planted foreign objects in Kalonzo&rsquo;s head to confuse him. They sensationally claim money has been poured to destabilise NASA with a view of splitting it.No prize for guessing why the Raila think tank are pursuing this line. But suffice is to say that no one denies the famous deal Raila supposedly signed with Kalonzo.And bearing in mind that Raila fell out with Kibaki over the 2002 deal, his supporters are worried that he has finally met his match in the Mwingi hardman.So although the NASA Technical Committee settled on a Raila-Kalonzo ticket, it is still early to speculate on whether the alliance will maintain its momentum. All the principals mentioned herein have assembled fuel for eventual fire that will burn this juggernaut.As this shapes up, Jubilee has a candidate in President Uhuru Kenyatta and a politically suave Deputy President William Ruto of the pata Potea fame. Those who live and work in this country must have noticed Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has gone mute in a bid to ensure Uhuru returns his numbers in the Rift Valley.