When the gods wish to punish us, said Oscar Wilde, they first answer our prayers. There is a way in which the gods are getting ready to punish Kenyans in this nominations season. They will answer our prayers by giving us the leaders we want, then, in turn those same leaders will &lsquo;punish&rsquo; us on behalf of the gods by giving us what we don&rsquo;t want. I have heard a thousand times how Kenyans have cried, even moaned that so-and-so is such a bad leader &mdash; why did we elect him? Those tears are the punishment of the gods. But we will never learn. Returning to the polls, Kenyans will be going to &lsquo;punish&rsquo; the leaders that they have a bone to pick with. Sure enough, we are the ones who get punished in the end and are doomed to repeat the cycle endlessly. The gods are punishing us. DP RUTO PRAYERSOne person with his own set of prayers, is Deputy President William Ruto. He is praying that the elections will give him the kind of people he can work with in the run-up to 2022. If the gods answer his prayers, they will be propping him up to punish him. There is a way that the DP has attracted controversy from the leaders who should in reality be his best supporters. This is in sharp contrast to President Uhuru Kenyatta who basically commands undiminished, near sycophantic support from his friends. It is different for Ruto. Some say this is because his base has not quite defined their strategic interest in the presidency, otherwise, they would not want to rock the boat ere it reaches the shores of Canaan. If indeed Ruto gets the leaders he wants (and indications strongly show he will), he may be starting with a fresh and quieter team. However, those who will feel slighted by his hand in deposing them, will work powerfully against his interests in 2022. They will be the hands of the gods.WHAT NOMINATIONS MEAN FOR RUTOPerhaps more than he cares to admit, Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 bid for the presidency largely depends on the outcome of the ongoing Jubilee nominations across all its strongholds. Whoever emerges, will play key parts in his strategic positioning ahead of that crucial upcoming poll. It will determine many things including the kind of support he will receive, the financing and the geographical reach on the ground and the vibrancy of his campaigns going into 2022. Although he has vowed not to support anyone for a seat, his silent hand can be seen in the preference of candidates. While it is true that some of his biggest detractors today had once been his closest comrades-at-arms, there is something that turns his best friends against him. They find it in themselves to fight him.SILLY SEASON AGAINThe battleground regions in the nominations are where the Jubilee and NASA principals come from. In the North Rift, it will be a bruising battle for the Jubilee ticket, as it will be in Central Kenya. These are the homes of the Jubilee principals and indeed winning the ticket will be tantamount to winning the election. In fact, the chasing of one ticket by so many is a barometer of how the people are likely to vote. In Kajiado, for instance, there are about six candidates chasing the Jubilee or Jubilee-affiliated tickets, while the incumbent has no material opponent in NASA.That is a bad sign for him. Indeed, the decision by the ODM to award a direct nomination to its most loyal lieutenants has been described as anti-democratic and retrogressive, however, there is a way in which the decision is informed by emerging realities after the elections. EDGY INCUMBENTSThere will be tremors in the aftermath of the Jubilee nominations. The chaos of the elections in some areas will see many incumbent leaders cry foul after they have been &lsquo;rigged&rsquo; out (perfect excuse as always) and there will be some serious political falling out and realignments. This could return to hurt Ruto&rsquo;s bid. The Rift Valley will see some of the most bruising battles ever. They could make or break the party going forward. What is perhaps of greater concern is the nature of the outcome in the light of DP Ruto&rsquo;s candidacy in 2022. It could greatly change the landscape, as the trees that will fall from the hurricane will place serious barriers in the DP Ruto&rsquo;s way. Some of the sitting governors who are very edgy are Uasin Gishu's Jackson Mandago who is feeling the heat from Zedekiah Bundotich, better known as Buzeki. Mandago had used every bit of his energy to support the DP and doesn&rsquo;t understand why the party, or Ruto for that matter, could not reward such loyalty by slowing down his rivals. There is a corner of his heart that is disappointed and he could take a negative attitude toward the DP, if he wins the nomination. Should he win, for instance, he could pay back the DP by become aloof to Ruto's bid in 2022, since he has nothing to lose in his second term. MANDAGO'S PITY PARTY But the second term is not so certain anymore. A few days ago, he hosted Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi to what amounted to a pity-party campaign, blaming their woes on a 'preferred list&rsquo; of candidates allegedly issued by the DPs office that excludes them. This defeatist mindset has sent the wrong message to the electorate and may have just been the right ploy by their opponents to get them out of the way. Others feeling the heat include Nandi Governor Cleophas Lagat, who is in a tight race with Senator Stephen Sang and former Cabinet Minister Henry Kosgey. Things so hotly contested against this incumbent that he has also started blaming his woes on the ghost &lsquo;list&rsquo; from the DP's office. Senator Sang&rsquo;s campaign gained some last-minute mojo and he is giving incumbent Lagat sleepless nights. He has also practically disillusioned the erstwhile front runner Felix Kosgey. Indeed Lagat's administration had received much flak for being unresponsive to the development needs of Nandi. Sang&rsquo;s strategy was to identify himself with the historical injustices faced by scores of Nandis and he is exploiting what his opponent Lagat had ignored. He is also working strongly on the issue of the vast land holdings by multi-nationals whose leases are coming up for renewal.Henry Kosgey's the albatross is the fact that he himself is a great landholder as well as an investor in multinationals, when Nandi has so many landless people displaced by the Europeans. In Kericho, Governor Professor Paul Chepkwony is feeling the heat from Richard K Langat popularly known as RK. Chepkwony will be banking on his development record and relatively scandal-free administration. He has done very well with the fight to rectify the historical injustices against the Kipsigis, even bringing a case against the British for their footprint in Kericho, which can still be felt to this day. RK is, however, said to enjoy the patronage of DP Ruto and CS Charles Keter with whom Chepkwony had not bothered to align himself.SMOKE-FILLED ROOMIn Bomet, Governor Isaac Rutto has bolted from Jubilee and is now a NASA co-principal. Incidentally, the smoke created in Bomet has pushed him out of the house, and the seat is left to be purely a Jubilee race. Rutto is creating a soft landing for himself come August 9 when the newspaper front pages will be carrying the story of his defeat. The problem with his move to NASA is that many who had trooped to his Mashinani party had been banking on the fact that he was (quietly) in the neutral zone and had even told the people that they could vote for Jubilee at the presidency level and a lower levels they should vote for his party. For many, it was like being an independent candidate. Their fortunes have now been tied to whomever NASA picks, but either way, they stand no chance in Jubilee strongholds. Their goose, like Rutto&rsquo;s, is now largely cooked. REMOVING GOVERNOR KIDERORuto&rsquo;s 2022 bid is also strongly tied to the outcome of Nairobi governor race. Jubilee&rsquo;s man to face incumbent Governor Evans Kidero will still face the uphill task of removing him. Kidero came to office after approaching the power brokers and the city fathers who gave him their blessing. This blessing may not be there this time round, as it has (I highly suspect) gone to Jubilee candidate Peter Kenneth. Kenneth, on the other hand, was seen as Ruto&rsquo;s biggest threat in 2022 and so it was in Ruto&rsquo;s best interest to have him governor of Nairobi, thus removing him from contention in 2022. However, the rambunctious Senator Mike Sonko connects very well with the poor majority in the city and therefore he has an edge over Kenneth for his practical approach to politics. A friend lost a relative who was undergoing treatment in the city last week. As they waited to plan how to transport the body, someone approached the Sonko Rescue Team and the body was immediately transported to Kericho, cutting great costs for the family ahead of the funeral. Sonko must get the seat, otherwise, he is capable of working vigourously against Ruto&rsquo;s future interests. THE HAND OF THE GODSIn the end, it is perhaps in Ruto&rsquo;s best interest to carefully evaluate the meaning of the outcome of the Jubilee nominations. Perhaps of greater importance is to be careful what he prays for. It might just lead to a different set of tears come 2022.