Nairobi&rsquo;s emerging affluent may grow their savings by half by moving their cash to low-risk wealth management vehicles from basic savings instruments, a report by Standard Chartered Bank has recommended. The Emerging Affluent Report, titled the Race to Save, suggests that about 79 per cent of emerging affluent in the country prefer savings as means of achieving their priorities. The priorities are educating their children ( 23 per cent ) and buying a home ( 18 per cent). About 74 per cent of the emerging affluent savers &ndash; consumers with a minimum of Sh100,000 gross income &ndash; however prefer to put their money in savings accounts. Another 35 per cent save through time deposits (cash in bank which cannot be withdrawn before a set date or where withdrawal notice is required).Savings through investments in equities and mutual funds is still low at six per cent apiece, while that through company pension funds and fixed-income securities is at five and two per cent, respectively. &ldquo;The investment markets in Kenya ...are less mature, but even here emerging affluent savers could reach their goals sooner, just by moving one step up from their preference of basic savings accounts or cash to time deposits,&rdquo; StanChart researchers say in the global report released in Singapore yesterday. &ldquo;By doing this they could be earning 25 per cent and 82 per cent more over 10 years, respectively.&rdquo; StanChart said its findings were based on responses on a 1,000 emerging affluent consumers in Nairobi between November and December 2016. Kenya&rsquo;s was the only African country that participated in the annual survey. Other countries surveyed are China, India, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Pakistan. StanChart hired global research consultancy GlobeScan to conduct the study which sampled 1,000 respondents in each of the eight countries. The survey found that only two per cent of Kenyan emerging affluent millenial ( 25-34 years) prefer to save for their priorities by keeping cash under their mattresses. This was below an average of 11 per cent in the eight countries surveyed, with more than half of respondents in Pakistan at 51 per cent preferring to save under the mattress. &ldquo;The preference for keeping cash at home could stem from a number of factors, such as the desire to be able to access savings at short notice, wanting to avoid risk, or lacking investing experience,&rdquo; the report says. &ldquo;However, this would need to be considered against the risk of saving money as cash, such as theft, loss and the absence of interest.&rdquo; The study shows Kenyan millenial are saving for a home as a priority, while children&rsquo;s education is the priority for those in the 35-44 and 45-55 age groups. &ldquo;It is no surprise that property is so high on the agenda for the emerging affluent,&rdquo; the bank&rsquo;s head of global lending Meghan Connolly said. &ldquo;Aside from the strong emotional value of owning your own home, buying property is typically viewed as a great form of investment.&rdquo;