We were visiting friends who recently acquired a second dog the other day. The dog a female Pit Bull terrier who is less than a year old and already has the strength of a much bigger dog, but is very gentle and loving, had the somewhat incongruous name, Lady Sophia.The name made me cringe as my mother&rsquo;s carer is also called Sophia and I would more than cringe with embarrassment if ever the two happened to be in the same place and someone was calling the dog and the human responded.Thinking about this immediately had me wishing for the past and looking through rose tinted glasses when dog names were so much simpler. For instance my first dog, Power, was named by one of my aunts, either from, and it all depends on who was telling the tale, the old revolutionary catchphrase, &ldquo;power to the people&rdquo; or from the advertising slogan, &ldquo;Guinness for power.&rdquo;Other more conventional names for dogs in my youth were Simba (probably still the number one dog name in Kenya) and as far as the books and comics I read as a child, were concerned, other common dog names included Fido, King, Rover, Spot, Rocky, Princess Lassie, Chui, Snowy and Snoopy. Though to be honest, in my nearly half-century on this planet I have yet to meet a Fido or a Spot.Then of course there was Timmy, the dog from Enid Blyton&rsquo;s Famous Five series. That said, I thought Timmy was a one off and that most people wouldn&rsquo;t give their dogs names that on another day they might give to their children, but life would prove me quite wrong.By the time I was in my early 20s I had a nephew whose dog was called Lucy (or was it Esther?) and I have since heard of all sorts of weird and wonderful names such as Pushkin, Einstein.Speaking of the weird, back in 1998, a report from the Reuters news agency in Tanzania declared: &ldquo;A dog sentenced to death by a Tanzanian court for having an offensive name has been executed, local newspapers reported on Tuesday. The dog, named "Immigration" by its owner John Kachela, was sentenced to hang by a judge in Rukwa province last week because its name was deemed insulting. It was spared the noose, but newspapers reported that police shot the one-year-old mongrel on Friday after an appeal was rejected. The dog's plight attracted the attention of animal rights activists.&rdquo;Back to the present and perhaps there is a puppy called Mrs Thatcher or a dog named Trump or even Putin out there somewhere, but I wonder if anyone would dare naming their dog Mugabe, Zuma, Buhari, Magufuli, or dare I even think it, Uhuru or Raila? Probably not or we&rsquo;d have heard of the dog owner&rsquo;s persecution by now.You can already see the problems in Uganda where someone called the president an arse, so you can well imagine that even if your dog was as brave as a warrior or as intelligent as a rocket scientist, naming it after an African leader would be the fastest way to land yourself in serious trouble. Or would it?