FEW political careers will be on the line in the August elections like that of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. A loss for Kalonzo in the race for NASA flagbearer will be all but the end of his political career. A victory, on the other hand, will be the cherry on the cake of an unassuming political career that will be testament to the clich&eacute; saying that hard work and perseverance pay.Kalonzo would be the kid who rose from management trainee to CEO over a 30-year career in the same company rather than the whizz-kid remarkable for a spectacular app that turned around an industry. He would be more of a Warren Buffet than a Bill Gates, politically speaking.A victory for Kalonzo would mean one of three things: An outright win as NASA flagbearer against Uhuru Kenyatta, a loss to Uhuru Kenyatta as Nasa flagbearer or a loss as Wiper party flagbearer. What cuts across all three scenarios is that, come what may, Kalonzo must run for President in August in whichever political formation. This is because the biggest threat to Kalonzo&rsquo;s career is neither Raila Odinga nor Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo&rsquo;s greatest threat is right back at home within his Ukambani base.Should Alfred Mutua, Charity Ngilu, Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and Kivutha Kibwana win and Kalonzo does not have credible ground on which to anchor his next political move as is currently his situation, the scramble back home heading to 2022 will ensure he&rsquo;s left holding on to little he could bargain with.The only way he can contain these marauding talents is to secure himself and his political base a stake in the political outcome of the August election. An outright win would be the biggest stake. An outcome of Leader of the Opposition and the government in waiting would be considerable too, while a meaningful finish under his Wiper Party would give him huge stakes to negotiate for a considerable entry into whatever national government that is formed. The loss of the position of Kamba kingpin come 2022 would be Kalonzo&rsquo;s greatest loss. Kalonzo can only use August to assert his dominance over his home turf and his opposition opponents. Should he be subdued nationally once again, he welcomes the same threat at home.The words of the National Assembly Minority leader Francis Nyenze, &ldquo;No Kalonzo, No NASA&rdquo;, should indeed be true for their entire political formation. Should Kalonzo capitulate to his own words that he has played second fiddleto Raila and he can do so once again, he not only relinquishes the ticket to an arrangement that has lost before but relinquishes his next five years to playing second fiddle all over again. It presents his home turf with a depressing sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu and makes them amenable to other alternatives. He can also not play second fiddle to Musalia Mudavadi, a man who is politically worth half Kalonzo&rsquo;s weight. It would incite the imagery of the biblical elder Esau, who gave up his birthright for a mess of potash to Jacob &ndash; though Mudavadi is no Jacob himself. KALONZO NEEDS TO BREAK HIS RAILA YOKEA Kalonzo on the NASA ticket in any political outcome would mean that he has finally broken Raila&rsquo;s dominance over him. It would also mean putting Raila&rsquo;s political career to rest and opening a new chapter for Kalonzo as either the Fifth President should they win or opposition supremo should they lose. Since 2002, when Kalonzo joined LDP to breakaway from Kanu, his career has been subject to Raila&rsquo;s at every turn. It is Raila who has dragged Kalonzo under the whim of his own political expediency rather than Kalonzo determining his own path. The 2007 split, if anything, re-established Raila&rsquo;s dominance over Kalonzo as the outcomes led a Vice President to deputise a Prime Minister at the 2013 election. Kalonzo has flourished when he has listened to his own people, rather than to Raila and the former PM&rsquo;s proxies within his camp. This is a yoke he must break.In the event that Kalonzo has to play Number Two within NASA, he brings no new political goods to his camp and opens the prospect of another five years out in the cold. For a camp that has hitherto not experienced political alienation from the centre, the dire absence of political goods has hit NASA and Kalonzo himself hard. The sinecures of power absent, Kalonzo has been forlorn and a fish out of water.The only way Kalonzo should agree to playing second fiddle is in the absolute prospect of a NASA win. In such a situation, Kalonzo would also be a victor. This prospect is increasingly looking unattainable as the current stalemate and crisis over the flagbearer is happening within crucial timelines that should be in use crafting general election winning strategies rather than finding a candidate. It is a task that will only get more complicated and may very well be a mission impossible as positions harden and compromises are seen as weakness. His own camp has been hardening positions as the ODM camp is slowly starting to define him as the problem &ndash; a situation he is all too familiar with from 2007.There has been a gradual shift from Kalonzo the diplomat to a Kalonzo who is more polarising and uncompromising. He has also increasingly made a shift from the moderate to an extreme politician within the latest opposition alliance. This means he now finds himself at the other end of Raila, the quintessential hardliner, with Mudavadi at the centre. This situation leaves Kalonzo in a precarious position, with the very possibility that should the opposition alliance flagbearer selection prove impossible, Mudavadi would likely become the compromise candidate. The outcome of such a situation would hurt Kalonzo&rsquo;s ambitions and stake for he would now play third, since Mudavadi would lead the ticket as Raila leads the formation. This would all but ensure Kalonzo would never get to the top, as he would have both Raila and Mudavadi&rsquo;s time at the top to plough through.AFTER AUGUST 8, KALONZO BEGINS TO AGEAugust would also be the last election where Kalonzo would go through without his age being an issue. As the country goes through a young presidency and the prospect of even younger more attuned governors rising to presidential politics beckons, Kalonzo is running out of time. His colleague Raila is already facing this and has to spend substantial capital on sidestepping the issue.Raila&rsquo;s recent medical issue of food poisoning is exactly the kind of vulnerability an ageing politician doesn&rsquo;t want to have. The recent visit to South Africa then the United States immediately after the Karen Hospital episode sent political tongues wagging. The 2010 episode of the surgery he underwent to ease pressure in his cranium has been rekindled and is going to be political fodder heading to August. The juxtaposition with Nigerian President Buhari&rsquo;s health crisis is bound to be made.Kalonzo should be paying attention because, come 2022, these are bound to be concerns he will be dealing with against a most likely robust 55-year-old William Ruto and a host of younger pretenders to his throne at home. At 68, Kalonzo will have his final shot at the top. He must arrive at 2022 from a position of victory, not loss.It is prudent for Kalonzo strategists to work out the options for him going forward, with a NASA defeat and a 2022 last-time opportunity in mind. A Jubilee win looks more than likely and the polls, which Kalonzo detests, say as much. Jubilee approaches the election as the most organized and better funded outfit. Uhuru Kenyatta looks ready to go and is keen to increase his vote tally within the swing and opposition counties. A favourable mass voter registration amplified the tyranny of numbers narrative. Incumbency with both its legitimate and illegitimate advantages also almost guarantees Jubilee will not lose. Denying this reality means going into an election where the margin of victory would be slim, but in Jubilee&rsquo;s favour and any contestation thereafter would be with an incumbent who, as our own history has shown, would not budge from the seat. These are hard truths Kalonzo&rsquo;s team must face.It therefore is incumbent upon the former vice president to approach August with this reality in mind. A close-call election isn&rsquo;t something to go against an incumbent with, especially an incumbent so entrenched and anchored. It even becomes more complicated if the close call happens with NASA as a whole. In such a situation, whatever stakes that may be available may have Kalonzo not as the first to bargain but probably the second and possibly third. Were Jubilee to win with a razor-thin margin or be forced to a second round, circumstances would force them to buffer their numbers with a new partner.However, 2022 provides an empty slate election. It will be a transition poll and even as Jubilee plans its own succession, it will hardly be unanimous and possibly fractious. For Kalonzo, the aim should be to approach it as the first in the class and in some way as the incumbent in the same way Raila approached 2013. It means that Kalonzo must strategize to arrive at 2022 as the only uncontested presidential candidate, having disposed of Raila Odinga and subdued Musalia Mudavadi.Even more important, he should have completely annihilated any pretenders within Ukambani and ensured his own leadership and political formation are undisputed. TIME KALONZO STAMPS AUTHORITY ON BOTH UKAMBANI AND THE OPPOSITIONThe current scenario where he has to negotiate with parties within his own region is unfathomable for a man who would be king. The very prospect that all three Ukambani counties would have governors winning on parties other than Wiper is an indictment of his leadership and lends his ODM competitors the ammunition they fight him with on a daily basis. Dams do not collapse from a onetime crack but from the little crevices that emerge in time.The reality for Kalonzo is that 2017 isn&rsquo;t the year for him at the national level; it is the year he establishes his dominance at home and over the opposition. Circumstances have conspired to ensure that out of five scenarios, only one, and a very improbable one, will see him as an out-and-out victor. It is the scenario where he gets the NASA ticket and then goes on to win the election. That scenario is manna from heaven and, as it is, manna could not be more welcome. Other scenarios however provide him with a variety of options that ensure he does not lose everything and, most importantly, he consolidates his numbers and position for 2022. From what position he does this should not be dependent on outcomes of an election he is not certain about. He should go into the election with an outcome he is certain about and each of the options point to him on the presidential ballot, either on NASA or Wiper, nothing less!