First of all, primaries generally are an exercise in electoral mockery of sorts. Primaries in Kenya are never democratic at all, not even among political parties that carry the tag of democracy such as ODM.It is a game of favourites. There are always favourites, and this preferment might be people who are close to the party leader, who is also the party owner, or even wealthy friends who fund party activities.In our context, the Party Owner owns the party like I own a pair of shoes. I can decide what to do with my pair of shoes. I can decide to give it to my great uncle, I can sell it or I can just decide that I want to put it on only when I am going to the shamba.The Party Owner owns both the party and the party ticket in that manner and therefore he has those favorites who could be relatives, who could be staunch supporters or just rich guys around him. Political party primaries are an electoral fiction where people just go out thinking that they are putting people through primaries but that doesn't happen.The matter of primaries is also complicated by the fact that almost anybody can participate in the primaries. You hear party leaders and political leaders are saying that only eligible members will participate in the primaries, but yet they lack a way of determining who is a member and who is not, especially now that the primaries are staggered.This situation is risky, because you are likely to witness the so-called members voting in the primaries in a given place, and, in a few weeks&rsquo; time, moving to vote in different areas in Jubilee primaries, Wiper primaries and even ANC primaries. In some places once you have got that ticket you are actually home and dry. If you actually get the ODM ticket in Siaya, or anywhere in Kisumu, you are okay. Because of this, the stakes are extremely high and we expect vicious nominations. It will be a-do-or-die duel. It is a game of giants at a certain level and some will come tumbling down like a house of cards.The nation must get prepared for terrible days ahead I think, basically because there are no rules of the game as such. Into the future, the political parties need to rethink or reinvent party primaries.Muluka is a political analyst