Should drug addicts be arrested or should they be taken to rehabilitation centers? Healthcare providers and human rights organisations argue that drug and substance abuse is not a criminal offence but an addiction that needs to be addressed.However, drug addicts in Mombasa do not have an option of choosing the type of treatment they should get from the state should they be arrested. It is worse when they are found in possession of drugs. When they are finally arrested and locked up in cells, their recovery process of trying to get them back on their feet is shattered in the four-corner walls that rarely offer any sign of hope.The move to arrest &ldquo;small fish&rdquo; in the drug menace has been praised by many as the &ldquo;best way&rdquo; to win the war against drugs. Is it the right way, though?Withdrawal symptoms Abila Lugard, the campaign manager at Reachout Centre Trust in Mombasa, has faulted the government&rsquo;s move of arresting drug addicts.&ldquo;The state has two faces; it can either show it's caring or violent side to its citizens. It is wrong to treat people who abuse drugs violently because all they need is help, not to be locked up in prison,&rdquo; Lugard says.Drug addicts are not criminals but victims of the psychotropic substances, and they need help to recover.Drug addiction is a chronic disease characterised by compulsive, or uncontrollable, drug seeking and use, despite harmful consequences and changes in the brain, which can be long-lasting and can lead to harmful behaviours.When drug addicts are arrested, they do not get any special treatment in prisons, which makes the road to recovery a difficult one as a result of the withdrawal symptoms they experience in prisons with no one to help them. These include: diarrheoa, hallucinations, joint pains, headaches, frequent vomiting, shivering and catching a cold. &ldquo;Apart from the withdrawal symptoms the addicts go through in prison, those who are HIV-positive and had not disclosed their status when they were arrested, they default on their treatment. Because of the fear posed by the criminality of drugs, some of them try to run away and in that process they get injured,&rdquo; Lugard says.Fines and jail termsThe Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act states that a person who has a narcotic drug or any psychotropic substance is guilty of an offence. The penalty for the offence is a Sh1 million fine or a fine three times the market value of the narcotic drug or a 20-year jail term.Section five of the same act also states that, a person who smokes or uses any narcotic or psychotropic substance is liable to a Sh250,000 fine or a 10-year jail-term.It is these provisions in the act that human rights defenders and healthcare providers want repealed as they are not helping in the fight against drug abuse. This is because the suppliers of these illegal substances rarely get arrested.Lugard adds that policy makers need to understand that using the criminal justice system is not the best way to tackle this issue. It is wrong to use violence in this circumstance. Care is what is required if governments are to achieve the outcomes that they and their citizens want.&ldquo;Being tough is mainly a posture to demonstrate power. Caring requires governments to recognise that drug use is an issue that needs a health and human rights-based approach that can genuinely engage with the problem at hand,&rdquo; he says.Drug addiction can be treated but because victims need to have a good support system around them that will enable them recover faster, the recovery process takes time. Most patients need long-term or repeated care to stop using drugs completely and recover their lives.