In various societies, God is the most important factor in leadership. Some communities have proverbs that epitomise the supremacy of human leadership, which also exhibits itself in the animal kingdom. Among the Gikuyu, the proverb that best explains how important human leadership is says, &ldquo;When the leader sheep limps, the flock does not reach the pasture.&rdquo;Leadership is, however, not uniform in all human societies because some men and women are better than others. Some societies are also better than others. Accordingly, we have dictators, who are normally bad leaders and democratic leaders, who in many occasions are good leaders. In other cases, we have socialist leaders, who are good distributors of wealth, and conservative and rich leaders, who exploit other people by grabbing whatever wealth there is.Every five years, we go to the polls where we elect the kind of leaders we want. Now that we are approaching that period, what sort of leaders will we have in Nakuru and Kenya in general?Unfortunately, our society is divided into the minority of meat-eaters and the majority of grass-eaters. During elections, the meat-eaters will elect their fellow meat-eaters as leaders. By choosing a leadership of meat-eaters, they guarantee that their carnivorism will continue and remain protected forever.On the other hand, the majority of grass-eaters, who understand their interests, will elect fellow grass-eaters to lead all animals and protect themselves against exploitation and carnivorism.In Nakuru county, people want leaders who will ensure equal distribution of public resources to all, whether rich or poor, weak or strong. Otherwise, it will be a tragedy to have greedy leaders, who want elective seats to grab public resources for themselves. For starters, a good distributor of wealth is what a good President and governor should be. The other good leader that the people of Nakuru should elect is a good protector of county funds from corrupt leaders, whose only purpose of seeking election or reelection is to steal from the public coffers.Here, we must point out that far from what many people think, elections are not a fun game that people engage in for entertainment. This is serious business, whose mismanagement and misuse can condemn us to a tragic future and horrible destiny. In Kenya, and Nakuru in particular, there are two types of leaders. The first type are those who seek leadership to get wealth, comfort and luxury. During campaigns, they wear expensive suits, ties and dresses that don&rsquo;t, in any way, resonate with work and sweat, contrary to the now trending billboard in which I am clad in blue overalls.The other emerging leader is one who is not greedy, not there to seek wealth, a servant of the people and portrays simple living. He exhibits himself in simple, blue working clothes and armed with a broom, with which to sweep away and burn evils of poverty, corruption, theft and negative ethnicity, with which no society can survive or develop.It tells what kind of leaders Nakuru will have, when aspirants publicise themselves on billboards expensively and smartly dressed in London-designer suits. They are committed to nothing but self-enrichment, to maintain the status quo, ideologically evasive or seeking leadership because they are poor and leadership will make them rich.Our elections are not issue-based and are propelled by money and negative ethnicity. The sources of this cash that oils the engine of this election are never explained. They could be corruption, devil worshiping, Masonic, drugs or crime.The evidence that we will have bad leaders is avoidance of debate on issues such as water shortage, poor healthcare, unemployment, poverty, corruption, poor governance and ethnic hostilities.Nakuru should have leaders who are committed to change. To have change, we must redefine leadership to mean people who are ready to sweat and work, and not seek self-aggrandisement. For elections to transform and develop, they must propel forward leaders who are not greedy and driven by desire for self-enrichment. The writer isa political activist and Nakuru senator aspirant