Provisional governor’s ticket winner Thomas Mwadeghu yesterday opposed ODM’s decision to call a vote in five Taveta polling stations where voting did not take place. The Wundanyi MP said his rival Governor John Mruttu is to blame for the delays that occurred. A group of people affiliated with his camp disrupted preparations at Mwatate on Monday evening. Provisional results showed Mwadeghu garnered 17,567 votes against Mruttu’s 14,817 to clinch the ticket. Returning officer Lawrence Sampele announced the totals on Wednesday but no breakdown. Mwadeghu wants Mruttu barred from contesting, saying he incited his supporters to cause havoc. After the announcement of the results in Mwatate, he said his votes had been reduced at the county tallying centre. “The results announced here in the morning are different from what has been announced by the county returning officer. My votes have been reduced,” Mruttu said. On Wednesday, Sampele issued Mwadeghu with a provisional certificate at the Mwatate CDF hall county tallying centre. A press release from the National Elections Baord at Orange House said final results would be issued once the five polling stations in Taveta that did not take part in the nominations hold the elections tomorrow. The five polling stations are Jipe Primary School, Chala Primary, Mahandakini Primary, St Joseph Kivuko Primary and Chala Njukini Primary. The release further said the results of the exercise in the entire county have been put on hold until after voting in the five polling stations is completed and votes counted. During the announcement of the results, Mruttu was absent. He was represented by Deputy Governor Mary Ndigha. Mruttu told the press at Voi on Wednesday that a lot of irregularities marred the ODM nominations and that they were not free and fair. He said there are plans to rig him out in favour of Mwadeghu because the majority of the election officials sided with him. Mruttu said some of the officials met with Mwadeghu at his home. He said he launched a complaint and tabled his evidence to Orange House but no action has been taken. “These elections were marred by a lot of irregularities. I did not participate in the exercise myself,” Mruttu said.