The Roast by Carnivore is an upmarket nyama choma restaurant situated at The Hub Karen Mall in Karen. Serving barbequed meats prepared in a quick-service style, the outlet is run by the Carnivore Restaurant &mdash; part of the Tamarind Group of restaurants and hotels.Guests can sit outside, overlooking the open-air courtyard, or inside at the booth or open-table seating. A long bar takes up one side of the brick walls that are hung with chalkboard art.From the menu, the meat platter is a traditional nyama choma sampler of pork ribs, grilled lamb chops, barbeque chicken and sausage. The platters vary in size from 300g to 1.2kg and area accompanied by kachumbari. The pork and beef ribs also come in different sizes and served with kachumbari.The sandwich options are slow-cooked pulled beef, pork and chicken stuffed into pitta bread, baguette or tortilla. A popular item is the roast flame-grilled burger with chips or potato crisps. On Wednesdays, they feature rib rumble, an all-you-can-eat offer of beef ribs. All the meat items come with a selection of Tamarind&rsquo;s signature sauces.This is a meat lover's restaurant. Vegetarian options consist of a herbivore salad, a veggivore sandwich made from vegetable cutlets, and side dishes, such as ugali fritters, tortilla chips or gourmet potato crips.The juices are all freshly squeezed, but you can also wash down your meal with a cool lager. The drinks menu features spirits, a couple of house wines and different cocktails, including the famous dawa cocktail.The meals are served on cast-iron plates or in tin pots, which add to the trendy feel of the place alongside the waiters dressed in T-shirts and long black aprons.The quick service style means The Roast is suitable for weekday lunches, yet the casual ambience lends itself to long, leisurely meals. There is also a home delivery service that caters to residents and offices in the Karen and Langata areas.The motto of the Roast restaurant is Spread the Fire, and the Tamarind plans to open other nyama choma eateries around Nairobi.Location: The Hub Karen Mall, NairobiContacts: +254 701 715373Star rating: 4/5