The Jubilee Party has rolled out a vigorous campaign strategy to win the Mombasa governor seat in the perceived opposition stronghold.Aspirant Suleiman Shahbal yesterday said the party will hold rallies in Mombasa every Saturday and Sunday after primaries on April 21. The rallies will continue until the polls on August 8.&ldquo;It will be a marathon,&rdquo; Shahbal said. He and his running mate Ananiah Mwaboza have been missing in action lately.Shahbal said JP has been conducting door-to-door campaigns.He said JP will bring change to Mombasa. He spoke on the sidelines of a three-day training of aspirants at Coast International College.One hundred sixty MP, senator, woman representative and MCA aspirants were trained in leadership skills and integrity. Mwaboza expressed confidence the weekend rallies will guarentee JP victory.&ldquo;We have put in place a winning strategy. We will take over Mombasa in August,&rdquo; he said.On Wednesday, Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said he is the best candidate for governor.He dismissed Shahbal, incumbent Hassan Joho and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, saying they cannot match his leadership qualifications.Omar said Shahbal is a qualified banker who should be at the Central Bank of Kenya.&ldquo;I advise him to be the Governor of the Central Bank and not Mombasa county,&rdquo; he said. Omar spoke after launching the Citizen Manifesto Iniatitive. Shahbal resigned as chairmanf at the Gulf African Bank on Tuesday to concentrate on politics.Shahbal said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad Senator Omar has acknowledged I can be the governor of the Central Bank. The CBK job needs intergrity, qualifications and connections. He has never in his lifetime run a kiosk. Why does he think he can be a govenor of a Sh10 billion city?&rdquo; Shahbal said Omar has been an activist all his life and failed in his oversight mandate as a senator.Omar said Joho, Awiti and Shahbal put together cannot match his skills.&ldquo;If you take my brother Awiti, mix him with Joho, add Shahbal and blend them together, they cannot match me,&rdquo; he said.Shahbal said, &ldquo;Omar was Joho&rsquo;s dancing partner for three years. He only woke up after declaring interest in the governor&rsquo;s seat.&rdquo;He said Jubilee will win many seats.Last week, Joho said his competitors are committing political suicide and will be out of work in August.Omar said he will reduce rates for small-scale traders, especially at the Kongowea open-air market.He said overtaxation has impoverished residents.&ldquo;The main problem is citizens are not consulted on anything,&rdquo; Omar said. Joho has faced opposition over his academic papers. However, Tom Mboya Primary School in Mombasa told the EACC Joho was their student and sat his KCPE exam there in 1988.Detectives from the anti-graft agency had visited the school as part of their investigation into the governor&rsquo;s academic background.Awiti, who defected from Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s Wiper, was received by Vibrant Democratic Party.The legislator ditched Wiper, citing frustration by an unnamed person trying to deny him the tparty&rsquo;s ticket.&ldquo;Many talks were held with a view to finding a candidate. But it seems Wiper was not serious and was only keen on a cats and dogs game,&rdquo; he said.Awiti said Kalonzo organised 600 delegates to chose between him and Omar. He said 100 delegates from each of the six Mombasa sub-counties were to take part in the primaries.A date was set but the exercise was cancelled without his knowledge.