Governor Okoth Obado, who won the seat on the Peoples Democratic Partyticket in 2013, but has since defected to ODM. He is the favourite to retain the seat, but faces stiff competition from former Cabinet minister Ochillo Ayacko. Governor Obado bolted from ODM after the bungled 2013 party nominations. On the chaotic Monday, the governor stormed a meeting attended by top ODM leaders, among them deputy leader and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. It was expected that Joho would endorse Obado&rsquo;s main rival, Ayacko. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed,one of the strongest critics of Governor Obado, was also at the meeting. Obado has managed to get the baking of Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, Ayacko&rsquo;s political nemesis. Other legislators who support his reelection are are Jared Kopiyo (Awendo), Joseph Ndiege (Suna West) and Mathias Robi (Kuria West). Uriri MP John Kobado, who hails from Obado&rsquo;s home turf, had declared his support for the governor but is reported to have pulled out two weeks ago.Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga, whose wife Anne is on the governor ticket, is out of the equation.Shadrack Manga of Kuria East, has retired from active politics and will not participate in the August polls, including endorsements.Former Sony managing director Paul Odola and newcomer George Oywer are also in the governor race.. The battle for the seat is largely seen as a two horse race between the incumbent and Ayacko. Leading up to Monday, their supporters have clashed on several occasions leaving some youths dead and scores of supporters injured.On August 22 last year, police and some armed civilians fired live bullets in the air to disperse a rowdy crowd of youths, some armed with crude weapons, including machetes, after clashes erupted between Obado&rsquo;s allies and Ayacko's followers, in Kameji, Rongo. Scores of mourners were injured.In November, they clashed again at Manyatta Secondary School, injuring five people.Obado has been acccused of running a corrupt and incompetent government. Issues of nepotism have also been raised by his rivals and civil society groups. In a damning report tabled on February 23 by the Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee chaired by Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, Obado was one of the seven governors recommended for prosecution over misuse of public funds. He however denied claims of corruption saying no money was lost as indicated in the report. &ldquo;The people of Migori have not enjoyed the fruits of devolution,&rdquo; Anne says. Yesterday, Obado accused some ODM leaders of interfering with party rules, a move that might "lead to shambolic nominations as was witnessed in 2013". Obado also dismissed claims that he is in Jubilee, saying those are claims propagated by a group of politicians out to split ODM. &ldquo;How can you describe me a Jubilee mole? Because I said no to intimidations? What we want is a free and fair nominations and we must reject anything that is likely to interfere with the party primaries,&rdquo; he said. He further accused his Mombasa counterpart and his team of misusing powers bestowed on them by the party. He told off Senator Nyong&rsquo;o over biased political remarks when he endorsed a Migori governor aspirant at an event organised in Migori town. &ldquo;I felt provoked when Nyong&rsquo;o went public and endorsed Ayacko. This move is not only aimed at spoiling for Obado, but is also likely to cause bungled nominations as was the case in 2013.This will also ruin Raila's ambition,&rdquo; he said.Following the clashes in Migori, a section of opinion leaders, professionals, clergy and youths have urged the Orange party to consider giving the ticket to an alternative leader in case of more violence, to bring sanity in the primaries. &ldquo;We have seen enough bloodshed in the county and the Monday chaos is a precursor of what will happened in the primaries. We need sanity and alternative leadership in the county,&rdquo; Peter Oloo, the chaplain Migori county assembly said.Kevin Oketch, an activist from Uriri, wrote to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, calling for barring of violent politicians from participating in the August polls.Odola and Anne have resorted to campaigning on a platform of peace, and presented themselves as an alternative leadership.During the chaos on Monday, Joho's bodyguard and a supporter were shot and injured. Tension started weeks ahead of the rally. It was not clear whether the function was to open the ODM party office or a campaign launch for Mohamed's reelection. On Saturday, youths led by David Nyangweso under the Suna East Youth's Forum for Change said the rally was planned to endorse Mohamed and Ayacko, and warned organisers not to sideline other leaders for the sake of peace. Migori ODM county chairman Philip Makabong&rsquo;o said they had invited Joho in his capacity as deputy party leader to open the Migori office, and two others in Uriri and Kuria West subcounties. He said the county office was involved in other functions as endorsing Mohamed for reelection.The earlier venue of the meeting, Migori county stadium, was blocked by the county government, forcing organisers to move the function to Migori Posta Grounds, which is 200m away.Attempts by Joho and his entourage to open the new office ended in front Migori County Stadium, where supporters from each side started pelting stones at each other. Obado was pushed back to his office and denied entry to the new ODM county office, while Joho and his team were barricaded back to Posta Grounds.&ldquo;Let them know I will not tolerate this level of provocation and incitement. We will sit here (in the new party office) and prevent them from opening it. If they move to a new venue, we will follow them,&rdquo; Obado told his supporters.Some of governor supporters invaded the office, removed party officials before smashing window panes, crushing doors and vandalising property.Earlier on Sunday night, unknown arsonists threw a petrol bomb at the office, sparking the first wave of demonstrations and standoff..&ldquo;Those people who are coming outside Migori with a view of endorsing, or with hope of creating disturbance, we are saying a big no to you,&rdquo; Obado told his supporters.He angrily that Joho as the deputy party leader should never take sides at all wondering &ldquo;how my colleague comes to the county and I am completely kept out of the picture through Junet, that is provocation.&rdquo;He said the treatment of other aspirants on Monday, was a big sign of how the forthcoming ODM primaries may not be free and fair opening wounds of last chaotic polls which saw him leave ODM to be elected on a PDP ticket.&ldquo;It is unfortunate that Junet who was defeated in primaries by Pesa in Suna East has been an headache ahead of forthcoming polls. I saw Pesa cry when we were locked out together, I went to another party out people&rsquo;s mandate,&rdquo; he said.His fears were allied when speakers at Posta grounds went ahead to drum up support for Junet and Ayacko which forced Obado to enter the venue from back stage when Kisumu senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o was speaking.&ldquo;I have come here today to support Junet as an MP and Hon Ayacko as the governor, because ODM politics is peaceful and righteous&hellip;.&rdquo; Nyong&rsquo;o said before Obado, walked to the podium and interrupted him.The angry crowd threw stones, shoes and water bottles at Obado on the podium forcing his guards to fire in the air. Bodyguards trying to shield their bosses and anti-riot police officers also fired in the air bring the rally into abrupt end.Migori three ODM offices, the proceeded the chaos.On March 2, the Migori county ODM party acquired the a new office to bring to an a prolonged political standoff over ownership of their old office at Migori county stadium with governor Obado.Officials had rejected a new office donated by the governor worth millions within Migori town and on a letter dated February 26, they informed Obado of their new office to avoid confusion.Because of renovation at the Migori county stadium at a cost of Sh29million, the first office was locked out from members which built the bad blood which played on October 5 in front of ODM leader Raila Odinga when youths heckled the governor and stopped attempts by Obado to have the office donation officially opened.The Monday chaos was a chance by Obado supporters to payback on October chaos which they blamed on his rivals especially Ayacko as the two leaders have accused each other of fueling violence in the county after past cases.Obado said his main rival, Ayacko has been behind a brand of violence politics during his decade tenure as Rongo MP which he had transferred to county politics with supporters of two clashing violently with so far at least two people reported dead.On December 17 their supporters clashed violently at Ngege village while on August 22 mourners at a funeral in Siala Primary School, Rongo subcounty during the burial of North Kamagambo MCA Richard Solo&rsquo;s father Daudi scampered to safety as police, police and private gun holders had to fire severally in the air to separate fighting supporters of the two.Speaking in previous functions, Ayacko has distanced himself from the violent brand of politics accusing Obado of using it to cover up for his poor development record and fear of being a one term governor.&ldquo;Let him say when a man with panga stood on his way when he was supposed to bring medicine and equipment at Rongo Hospital, or water and electricity at Rongo market. This is propaganda because he can&rsquo;t run on any truck record and can&rsquo;t point at any development project despite handling billions of devolution money,&rdquo; Ayacko said in Rongo town.Ends