Investors have shunned industrial zones of Nairobi and other major cities because the structures are outdated and of poor quality thus reducing property value, an annual industry report suggests.According to the survey by property manager Knight Frank, industrial areas of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu also suffer from heavy traffic congestion. &ldquo;Modern well configured logistics space is currently scarce in spite of growing demand for high specification facilities, and this has led to some occupiers developing their own space,&rdquo; the consultancy says in Africa report 2017. The rising demand in this sector has prompted the emergence of several master-planned industrial parks, particularly on the outskirts of Nairobi, where developers are taking advantage of new infrastructure developments.These include the Eastern, Southern and Northern bypasses which are meant to decongest Nairobi. Upcoming modern industrial parks include Tatu City, Tilisi in Limuru, Infinity private industrial park off the Eastern Bypass and the Mackakos Leather Park. &ldquo;Industrial rents have risen as a result of a move by developers into the high-end logistics market,&rdquo; Knight Frank managing director Ben Woodhams said. Nairobi, however, remains the preferred location for global corporates eyeing East Africa. About 300,000 square metres of commercial office space was delivered to the Nairobi market in 2016, up from 150,000 square metres in 2015. &ldquo;The high level of new supply has negatively affected rental levels and occupancy rates. This situation has been exacerbated further by external events that have caused some multinationals , particularly in the oil industry , to downsize their operations in Kenya,&rdquo; The uptake of new prime offices in Nairobi however remains steady, the survey indicates. In the retail market, approximately 100,000 square metres of formal retail space was delivered to the market in 2016, up from about 50,000 square metres in 2015. Multinationals are taking a growing interest in Kenya, the report suggests, with the most recent market entrant being French supermarket chain Carrefour. The residential market remained stable in 2016 &ldquo;due to steady macroeconomic conditions and minimal impact from external shocks.&rdquo; Luxury home sales prices increased marginally, but prime rental prices declined as a result of a slight over supply. The annual housing shortage is more than 200,000 units. In the current financial year, Treasury CS Henry Rotich reduced corporate tax from 30 per cent to 20 per cent for developers who construct at least 400 units per year. &ldquo;I call upon investors to take up this incentive and construct the much needed houses for our people,&rdquo; Rotich said in his 2017-18 budget speech on March 30.