Tension is building and ODM nominations for Mombasa MP next Wednesday are expected to be hard fought.The chaos in Busia on Thursday was a bad sign, but ODM&rsquo;s Mombasa election coordinator David Odada said on Friday the exercise will be free and fair.Security will be tight as the party has already made arrangements with regional commanders.&ldquo;It won&rsquo;t be like Busia. Everything is under control,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.The number of polling stations has been increased to facilitate voting.It will be a do-or-die contest for some aspirants with strong relationships with party leader Raila Odinga and Governor Hassan Joho.However, those sensing defeat have their plan B, running as independents.Jomvu, Nyali and Changamwe constituencies will witness stiff competition, in contrast with Kisauni, Likoni and Changamwe.Jomvu MP Badi Twalib will compete with Knut Kilindini chairperson Dan Aloo.Teachers typically support their colleagues and they have been pillars during the polls. Twalib ditched Wiper.Even so, Aloo has alleged he joined the party after the &ldquo;deadline&rdquo;.He said while in Wiper, Twalib opposed Raila&rsquo;s presidential bid in favour of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Twalib was Wiper&rsquo;s deputy organising secretary, obliged to support his boss.&ldquo;He has never been honest and loyal to ODM. When the SGR was launched, he said he will work with President Uhuru Kenyatta,&rdquo; Aloo said.Three calls to Twalib went unanswered. Texts were not answered.The constituency has about 15,000 ODM delegates, who will take part in primaries across 10 polling stations.Nyali constituency will see Governor Joho&rsquo;s cousin, Said Salim, face Raila&rsquo;s buddy Mohamed Ali.Analysts say Nyali will be a two-horse race pitting an ODM-backed candidate against one fronted by area MP Hezron Awiti, who will run for governor.Some have said it will be Joho&rsquo;s man against Awiti&rsquo;s favoured candidate.Simon Adalla, who is running for Nyali seat on the ANC ticket, is seen as Awiti&rsquo;s choice.Many fear Nyali ODM primaries might be chaotic, based on past events.When ODM held a rally at Tononoka Grounds to present the Pwani Declaration, Salim and Ali supporters clashed. Two people were injured. The two aspirants argued over whether Raila should raise Ali&rsquo;s hand as sign of endorsement.Tension has been building.Salim has often predicted rigging.In Changamwe, Joho&rsquo;s right-hand man and football boss Ali Goshi will face incumbent Omar Mwinyi.The last time Raila held rally in the area, the two camps clashed. Raila&rsquo;s speech was disrupted.Unlike other ODM MPs, save for Likoni&rsquo;s Masoud Mwahima and Mwinyi, the rest have cordial relationships with Joho.Mwinyi at one point faulted Joho for failing to solve land problems in constituency. But Joho&rsquo;s apparent persecutions by Jubilee seemed to have reunited the two.There will be no primaries in Kisauni and Mvita because incumbent Rashid Bedzimba and Abdulswamad Nassir, respectively, got direct tickets. they were unopposed. Odada said National Election Board has increased the number of polling stations based on distance and number of voters.