The government is conducting continuous situation analyses in areas predisposed to pre- and post-election violence. Factors include politicians' character. Measures are in place and every situation is reviewed continuously. Police commanders are trained on joint operations planning so they work in unison towards the same goal.We have encouraged officers to do a lot of close liaison with politicians. Operatives on the ground have been advised not to exploit the section of the population posing threat of violence. Our message to citizens is there is no physical violence hotspot. Violence caused by breaking law and order is only likely to happen where it is tolerated. Violence does not occur by itself, instead, politicians are its agents. We are monitoring all politicians' conduct so when somebody instigates violence, they are dealt with as individuals. We are in constant communication with political parties to tame internal violence.These measures are succeeding. We shall continue strengthening them and intensifying the message to citizens to avoid violence. We had not considered party primaries' violence and the incidents witnessed are very useful to us. They very clearly indicate the form violence might take and prefigure consequences of inaction.Political careers of a number of politicians are under threat. Several have been flying around and staying in five-star hotels, conscious this (privileges) might not happen again. In the past, some enjoyed these privileges but have been out in the cold. For them, these elections are a matter of life and death.Some say they cannot stay out in the cold for another five years. Of course, in the long term we must look for a way to review both our Constitution and other laws so our current lucrative politics does not look distinctly better than other careers.You cannot have people going to work at 9am on Tuesday, breaking on Thursday and earning Sh1 million monthly. This creates social imbalance and is a major cause of instability. In the short-term, we are telling citizens if you are a mason, matatu driver, conductor, construction worker or farmer, you career and life are not under threat.However, the lives of aspirants for MCA, governor or MP are under serious threat, which is why they exploit low-income earners and jobless youths to cause violence. The collective ambition of the Kenyan people is to live an affordable and secure life &mdash; one threatened by politicians.