President Uhuru Kenyatta has said there will be no direct nominations for Jubilee aspirants, saying citizens will decide the leaders they want.He said Jubilee is a party that upholds democracy and will ensure that the choice of the people carries day on&nbsp;April 21&nbsp;during the primaries. &ldquo;The nomination exercise will be free and fair. No one will be accorded a direct ticket because the people are the ones who will decide those to run on the party&rsquo;s ticket in the August polls." &nbsp;He added: &ldquo;No one seeking our party&rsquo;s ticket &ndash; from MCA to president &ndash; will be given a direct ticket until after the nominations are held and the electorate have picked their choice.&rdquo; Uhuru &ndash; who was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto &ndash; spoke when he toured parts of Kiambu and Nairobi counties to thank residents for registering in large numbers in readiness for the August polls. He slammed Opposition leaders for concentrating on sharing positions at the expense of focusing on serving the electorate. &ldquo;No one who believes in democracy hands out direct tickets even before nominations,&rdquo; Uhuru said. Read: Kimilili MP aspirant rejects direct ODM nomination, says firmly in Jubilee He said unlike his sdministration which has assured that in the last four years projects have been implemented in all sectors of development across the country including tarmacking 7000 kilometres of roads, installing specialised medical equipment in two hospitals in every county and increasing electricity connectivity, the Opposition have nothing to show apart from jostling to share positions. &ldquo;As Jubilee, we know we have fulfilled the promise on development and we are focused on implementing projects that will continue to lift the lives of Kenyans. But our opponents have nothing to show for the many years they were in government holding senior positions,&rdquo; Uhuru said. Read: Shots fired after Ongoro supporters turn rowdy, ODM denies unfair nominations claim The President urged Kenyans to support the Jubilee leadership, saying it has proved its commitment to taking the country to higher levels in development by laying the foundation to move Kenya from a third to a first world country. &ldquo;Please do not engage a reverse gear by electing the Opposition who will drag the country backward,&rdquo; President Kenyatta appealed to Kenyans. Ruto censured the Opposition for claiming that they will set up a parallel tallying centre, saying there are not shortcuts for winning the elections other than going to the people. More on this: Raila announces parallel tallying centre for Nasa, gives details of how it will work Also read: NASA right on parallel tallying centre plan, says Kibwana He said no one will win the elections through establishing parallel tallying centres and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is the only institution allowed by law to announce the winners of the elections. &ldquo;We are telling our competitors that the die is cast and we are going for elections in August. This election will be contested on the basis of one&rsquo;s track record not setting parallel tallying centres. Let the opposition tell us what they did for the country for all the years they were in Government,&rdquo; the Deputy President said. He asked the Opposition to concentrate on getting a flag bearer for the August elections instead of focusing on sideshows.