Nyali MP Hezron Awiti&rsquo;s jump to the neutral Vibrant Democratic Party in order to run for Mombasa governor has sent shock waves through Wiper and ODM.VDP chairman Paul Ngei received Awiti from Wiper yesterday.Before decamping, Awiti and his supporters pledged to support Senator Hassan Omar if he was defeated during nominations. Wiper has suffered a blow.Awiti is appealing to fellow Luos and other communities to vote for him. The Mijikenda account for about 30 per cent of the 500,000 registered voters in Mombasa.Awiti&rsquo;s running mate is Hassan Mwamtoa, a Mijikenda.VDP&rsquo;s structure has made it possible for it to appeal to the Kamba community with Ngei as a member.Awiti said VDP neither supports Jubilee nor NASA. This announcement could help it attract undecided voters.Awiti has depicted Wiper as an undemocratic party. He said he was frustrated as he tried to be the party&rsquo;s flagbearer in Mombasa.The MP seems to be riding on a victim narrative, a strategy that has proved effective in Kenyan politics.Political commentator Hassan Mwadiga said, &ldquo;The sizeable number of votes a NASA candidate would have received if a joint nomination becomes reality, is now in limbo after the MP&rsquo;s defection,&rdquo; He said Awiti&rsquo;s move will divide opposition votes, helping Jubilee clinch the seat. Mwadia said, however, Jubilee will have a hard time winning the governor&rsquo;s seatas the region is considered an opposition stronghold.Jubilee will front Suleiman Shahbal with Annaniah Mwaboza as his running mate.Awiti said he is open to talks with any political outfit. Mwadiga said the MP is trying to drain votes from Jubilee, Wiper and ODM.Wiper, ODM and Jubilee candidates have not announced any partnerships. Consolidations of votes through alliances has become an effective strategy.Awiti said his party is mostly composed of people in the business community. This is crucial during resource mobilisation.Awiti is keen to win over the 10,000-plus Kongowea market voters.All aspirants will not go through nominations.In the next 14 days, VDP will ratify decisions to make Awiti its party leader and candidate for governor.The Nyali MP is driving home the message Mombasa is not conducive for business and has promised to make major changes to attract investors.Awiti said he will set up a car plant.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka had tried unsuccessfully to prevent Awiti from leaving his party.&ldquo;Many talks were held with a view of finding a candidate. But it seems Wiper was not serious and was only keen on a cat-and-mouse game,&rdquo; he said.Awiti said Musyoka brought together 600 delegates to chose between him and Omar. He said 100 delegates from each of the six Mombasa subcounties were to take part in the primaries but the exercise to be canceled without his knowledge. &ldquo;Later, reports emerged some people had endorsed the other guy,&rdquo; Awiti said.He said Omar had initially agreed seek reelection, but changed his mind.But Omar, through several tweets, denied this. Awiti said he had no option but to leave as there was mistrust. &ldquo;I could not wait for the same fate that befell me when I was in ODM back in 2013 to happen to me again,&rdquo; he said.