Thousands
of refugees fleeing fighting between the army and armed groups
in the central Democratic Republic of Congo have sought refuge
in overcrowded villages across the border in Angola, the United
Nations said on Friday. More than 11,000 refugees have fled Kasai-Central province
amid clashes between local militias and Congolese forces that
started last August, with some 9,000 arriving since the start of
this month, the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) said. Refugees, about half of whom are children, are arriving in
Angola in desperate conditions, many of them malnourished, sick
and fearful for their lives amid reports of civilians being
targeted, UNHCR said. "Refugees are arriving in desperate conditions, without
access to clean water, food or shelter," the agency's spokesman,
Babar Baloch, told reporters in Geneva. Refugees reported fleeing attacks from militia groups, who
are targeting police, military officials and civilians who they
believe are supporting or representing the government, Baloch
said. Some of the refugees have had to hide in the forest for days
in their bid to reach safety in Angola, Congo's southern
neighbor, UNHCR said. The latest violence in the central African country, a tinder
box of conflicts over land, ethnicity and minerals, has worsened
since security forces killed the leader of the Kamuina Nsapu
militia. The killing has sparked a rebellion against security forces
in the impoverished Kasai region. Fighting in Kasai has resulted in more than 400 deaths and
displaced more than one million, with the United Nations
identifying 40 mass graves. Angolan authorities said on Wednesday they were reinforcing
security patrols along the border with Congo in order to keep
the militias from infiltrating their territory, local media
reported. The refugees would be treated humanely, police chief
Ambrósio de Lemos was quoted as saying. For those still caught between warring parties, the
suffering endured by children was particularly worrying, the
UN's children (UNICEF) agency said. Some 2,000 children in Kasai had been enrolled by the
militias as child soldiers and another 300 had been seriously
injured, it said. "They should be safe in their homes ... not forced to fight
on the battle field and killed or injured in violence," UNICEF
representative Tajudeen Oyewale told reporters. Late last month, the United Nations renewed its peacekeeping
mission in the country, which currently counts nearly 17,000
soldiers deployed on the ground. Still, analysts fear growing violence could spark a repeat
of the conflicts between 1996-2003, mostly in the east, in which
millions died, mainly from hunger and disease. President Joseph Kabila's failure to step down when his
two-term mandate expired in December has further destabilized
the loosely governed country.