Kenya Cup champions KCB will face the winner between Blak Blad and Mwamba in the Enterprise Cup quarter-finals on May 6.During the draws, which were done over the weekend, last year&rsquo;s runners-up Kabras face the winner between Mean Machine and Nondies in the last eight. Impala await winner of the Quins and Nakuru RFC match with the winner between Western Bulls and Homeboyz facing Strathmore Leos. The pre-quarters are slated for April 29 with the quarters set for May 6. Semifinals will take place on May 13 with the final scheduled for May 20.In the second tier Mwamba Cup, Moi University take on South Coast Pirates, University of Eldoret face Mombasa Sports Club, Bungoma Sharks meet JKUAT as Thika confront Kenya Methodist University.In the Mwamba II category, Nondies II face Western Bulls II, Mean Machine II meet Homeboyz II, Strathmore II battle Mwamba II as Blak Blad II face KCB II.KCB skipper Curtis Lilako expressed confidence that the side can clinch the trophy. &ldquo;The boys are going all out to win the Enterprise Cup. We won last year and we can win for the third time with the momentum gained by winning the Kenya Cup over the weekend,&rdquo; he said.Lilako said the boys will celebrate winning the trophy and resume training later in the week with an eye on the Enterprise Cup. &ldquo;It won&rsquo;t be easy. Every other team we face will want to beat us but the boys have shown character and played intelligent rugby and I know we can win,&rdquo; he added.Elsewhere, the Kenya under-20 team lost 66-24 to a rampant Namibia side in the Africa under-20 final on Sunday in Antananarivo. Three days after stunning Zimbabwe 34-24, the side known as Chipu were brought crashing to earth with the champions scoring 10 tries&mdash;eight of which were converted.The Kenyans were 26-12 at the interval but they were simply out-muscled in the collisions. Chipu&rsquo;s tries were scored by Stanley Isogol, Vincent Matiko, James Simiyu and Charles Meshack with Henry Ayah adding two conversions.