In the world of creative writing, there are different kinds of writers. There are those who travel to different, sometimes exotic destinations, where they explore and then write about the place. And then there are writers who lean towards self expression, who dig deep inside of themselves to gain access to emotions, which they then pour out onto the page with flowery prose, using words many people have never even heard of.I am none of these writers. I hate packing and I am not emotional, at least not when I write. This leaves me being the kind of writer who writes stories about people.Now all writers do research before they write, so in much the same way a travel writer explores places and a literary writer examines feelings, I watch people. Now as creepy as that sounds, it&rsquo;s really not. I don&rsquo;t hide behind bushes to watch people, or use binoculars to spy or anything like that. No, all the people watching I do is done out in the open, while sitting at a park bench, or in a restaurant, and even when I&rsquo;m stuck in traffic.Perhaps a better and more accurate way to say that I watch people, less alarming even, is to put it thus: I observe and notice people, it&rsquo;s part of my work process. And after I watch, I try and imagine who these people are, what they do for a living, where they are going, and I wonder, what are they thinking? It is from this observing and imagining that I then mould fictional characters. What you then end up with is imaginary characters that feel real because to a certain extent, they&rsquo;re based on real people. On the few occasions I&rsquo;ve pulled it off, someone will ask me after reading a story I&rsquo;ve written, &lsquo;Did that really happen?&rsquo; And I say, &lsquo;No, I made it all up.&rsquo; To which they say, &lsquo;It felt real.&rsquo;The reason it feels real, the reason that protagonists and antagonists in stories come across as people in real life, is that we can identify with them, for in each one of us is a little bit of the other. How I am able to make up characters that are not far removed in thought and deed from the people I observe and notice can best be described by the following sentence (I can&rsquo;t remember where I read it though).See yourself in everyone, read your mind and that way you read a little bit of theirs.I watch people and I see myself in them. A little bit of their cares, hopes, and joys are mine as well, which I then imbue into my fictional characters. I&rsquo;ve learnt from watching people that we&rsquo;re the same. Social status aside, at the core, we&rsquo;re human beings.You can imagine then how confused I get when I see the level of tribal hate on display on social media, especially during this time of election fervour. I am baffled, left wondering how one goes from being human to hateful creature. There&rsquo;s really not much one can say that hasn&rsquo;t already been said about hatemongers in our country, other than to add we hope they get the professional help they need.I can tell you though that from watching people, I&rsquo;ve noticed that there are more people who show kindness, care and love in Kenya than there are those who hate. We&rsquo;re not powerless in the face of hate, let&rsquo;s stare it down.