My dream of NASA wasn&rsquo;t about ME but about this team here, YOU here, and YOU out there listening on radio and watching television at home and abroad.My dream is about Kenya. For this reason, I invite YOU, my fellow countrymen, and urge YOU to join me in realising NASA for yourselves and the unborn generations to come.This team is not about who had the ball first. It does not matter I had the ball, but I have passed it to a team member at a vantage point to score. We do have a date with destiny and therefore let us all brace ourselves for celebration after August 8. Upon formation of NASA, we set out in the agreement to pursue; a) National reconciliation and healing; b) Resolving all historical injustices; c) Strengthening devolved governance, including transfer of more functions and resources to the county governments; d) Transforming government from master to servant of the people; e) Realising the equality principles and goals entrenched in Article 27 of the Constitution, through programmes to achieve equal treatment of women, youth, and persons with disability, marginalised communities and groups in the political, economic, cultural and social spheres; f) Realising social and economic rights as enshrined in Article 43 of the Constitution; g) Eradicating poverty and unemployment.It is NASA that will create an attractive investment environment that creates jobs for our youth. It is NASA that will modernise our education system, and provide technological and scientific solutions to our quests. A NASA that invests in research so that Kenyans can conquer the skies and oceans.We did not form NASA for specific persons to ascend to power. NASA carries the aspirations of Kenyans to live in peace and unity. We intend to build a just and prosperous country. Our vow has been to put Kenya first ahead of our personal, political, party or ethnic interests.Main story: I will lead you to the promised land &ndash; RailaOur motto has been &lsquo;Kenya Kwanza&rsquo;. We must all give meaning to Kenya Kwanza.We therefore have sacrificed personal ambitions for the sake of NASA unity and the liberation of this country. This is what we mean by transforming government from master to servant of the people. Every face of the Kenyan people shall be reflected in a NASA government.I am confident in my team players. Victory is in sight. Join me in cheering our team as I take my strategic position in the field to ensure victory.Mudavadi is the ANC party leader