JUBILEE Party secretary general Raphael Tuju is said to be under intense pressure. First, some political operatives close tothe presidency are said to have preferred candidates. Second, the interest in tendering has grown overnight, putting the formerRarieda MP (pictured) in a tight corner.Third, some people seem to be working at the party and reporting somewhere else above. The number of plainclothes security officers stationed at the Jubilee building raisesquestions on exactly what is going on at the headquarters. So the man from Siaya may havea difficult time delivering. The Jubilee primaries, for instance, were a spectacular failure.*****HAS Funyula MP Paul Otuoma set himself up for trouble by quitting ODM before a repeat of the Busia governor nomination? Well, some ODM enthusiasts were heard saying the former Fisheries minister has set himself up for propaganda that he is a Jubilee mole. This is especially so because together with Budalang&rsquo;i MP Ababu Namwamba, he attempted to ditch ODM and resigned as party vice chairman. They said the window for running as an independent candidate is still open until May 8 and Otuoma should not to have rushed totender his resignation letter. According to the Orange Party insiders, the ODM machinery will now throw its weight fully behind his competitor Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and crush him.*****THE responsibility of ensuring the safety of Nairobians should be diversified since the Nairobi county government has failed. Tenantsat Ufundi Cooperative Plaza will hold a meeting next week to decide on how they will repair, service and manage the building after a woman miscarried because of its unserviced lifts. The building is next to Jeevanjee on Moi Avenue and Moktar Daddar street. The lifts frequently break down, putting the lives of hundreds of residents at risk everyday. The building houses many companies, a college and a union. It is dirty, stinks, and has hanging cables. It was given to Ufundi Sacco by the US after the bombing of Cooperative House in 1998.*****IT seems Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero will not heed President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga directive to pay doctors. Our mole at County Hall whispers that the doctors were pleading with Kidero to pay their 100-day salaries. They reminded Kidero his title is &lsquo;Dr&rsquo; so he should listen to his fellow doctors.