The Judiciary will this week be on the receiving end as MPs criticise and propose ways to end court orders stopping House committees from probing sacking petitions against public officers.National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale yesterday told the Star on the phone the courts are setting a bad precedence and denying Kenyans their constitutional right to hold state officers to account by interfering with Parliament&rsquo;s independence. He said the orders pose a serious threat to committee members&rsquo; freedom of debate provided in Article 117 of the Constitution. Duale warned the Judiciary could plunge the country into anarchy. &ldquo;I think we are heading toward what is happening in Venezuela now. There have been demonstrations in the last two days because the Supreme Court is usurping the powers of the legislature. It looks like the Kenyan Judiciary ultimately would usurp powers of Parliament as an independent institution,&rdquo; he said.The High Court issued orders stopping two parliamentary committees from investigating petitions seeking the removal of Auditor General Edward Ouko and National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri from office.The two have questioned the committee proceedings, saying the petitions were malicious.Ouko obtained orders barring the National Assembly Finance Committee, chaired by Benjamin Lang&rsquo;at (Ainamoi), from probing him after being mentioned in the purchase of a controversial Sh100 million audit vault software, believed to cost Sh18 million. Swazuri last Wednesday obtained orders barring the Lands Committee, chaired by Alex Mwiru (Tharaka), from grilling him over allegations he received a Sh1 million bribe from petitioner Mugo Njeru to be compensated in the Standard Gauge Railway project. The government acquired Njeru&rsquo;s plot on Mombasa Road.&ldquo;The speaker, as the head of the House, and legislators will deal with this matter when we discuss a motion on this issue this week. The Constitution and Standing Orders are very clear on the procedure for the removal of any public officer through a petition,&rdquo; Duale said. He said committees only listen to matters raised in a petition and recommend its dismissal or that the President set up a tribunal to investigate the officer if enough evidence is given. &ldquo;Courts interfering and deciding to protect an individual against the concerns of citizens is a matter Kenyans need to discuss,&rdquo; Duale said.