For 20 years, Joseph Kabochi led a miserable life. He indulged in any cheap substance he would come across. He lost hope and joined criminal gangs and owned a gun at 17. Today he is changed. He has done theology and is a registered pastor. He is a living hope for hundreds of addicts still trapped in drug dens.Joseph lost his mother when he was 11 years. He was the only child born of a single mother. His extended family deserted him soon after his mother&rsquo;s burial. &ldquo;My grandmother would often tell me that it was my mum who belonged to them and not me. Mum had introduced me to church, which took over the responsibility of paying my Sh400 rent, bought me food and paid my school fees,&rdquo; Kabochi says.It&rsquo;s at this crucial age that a child requires parental guidance, and since he had no one watching over him, he ended up experimenting on anything and everything he found. &ldquo;You can imagine a child of 11 years staying alone in a ghetto.&rdquo;Out of sadness and lack of sense of belonging, Kabochi become rebellious and vulnerable. &ldquo;Before I knew it, at a young age, I was hooked to drugs and joined gangs.&rdquo;Seeing people smoke made him think it was fun. &ldquo;I thought it was cool to billow smoke from the nose,&rdquo; Kabochi says. Since he did not have money to buy cigarettes, Kabochi would make his own by crashing dry leaves and rolling them in a piece of newspapers. &ldquo;This started at a very young age, I must have been 12,&rdquo; he remembers. What started as experimental drug use lasted for 20 years.GRADUATION TO BHANGIn class six, he started doing casual jobs, where he would be paid Sh5, and he could now afford to buy cigarettes. By the time he got to class eight, Kabochi had graduated to smoking bhang. &ldquo;This is when you experience all sorts of things. You are suicidal today, you are sad tomorrow.&rdquo;&ldquo;I did KCPE and failed terribly.&rdquo; Despite his poor performance, he still had the urge to continue with education. He approached the church and requested for transport to go and look for his relatives in Nakuru, where his mother was born. &ldquo;I went and demanded to be taken to secondary school after learning that my mum had left some money for my education.&rdquo; He was enrolled at Nakuru High School but could not stay long since he was still on bhang and the school got wind of it.His uncle transferred him to Afraha High School, where he cleared form four amid several suspensions. His street life began when he came back to Nairobi after finishing KCSE. &ldquo;I went to Kawangware, where I started petty crimes like stealing to sustain my substance abuse.&rdquo; He mugged and snatched handbags and phones and would steal from loners at night. &ldquo;Street life is not easy. You have to be very strategic to survive,&rdquo; Kabochi said.For several years, Kabochi was in and out of prison but he is grateful that he would get arrested, since most of his friends were either shot by police or killed by a mob after a stealing deal went bad.At 17 years, Kabochi owned a gun. The reformed drug addict-turned-pastor got the gun after a gang who had gone on a stealing spree was killed, leaving him with it. &ldquo;I had not gone with them on this day and since I knew where they had hidden it, I picked and made it mine.&rdquo;He hid the gun at a stalled construction site in Kawangware. He sold it after the second gang he belonged to was wiped out, leaving him alone. &ldquo;Luck was always on my side. Every time my friends were ambushed, I was not with them.&rdquo;The gun fetched him Sh30,000, which he spent within two days. &ldquo;Drug life is slavery. One would rather buy stock of the substance than food. The only important things I bought with that money was a trouser that cost me Sh100, shoes for Sh200 and a shirt for Sh100.&rdquo;It was after this that he started getting the urge to stop drugs. &ldquo;With addiction, you know you want out but you don&rsquo;t know how. It was tough,&rdquo; remembers Kabochi.TURNING POINTHe met a well-wisher who asked him if he would like a job. &ldquo;On that day I had been beaten by a mob after I snatched a phone. He found me in a trench and asked me if i would be willing to get employed. He took me to a construction site, where he kept checking on me.&rdquo; He was later taken to Teen Challenge programme, a one-year discipleship rehabilitation programme. &ldquo;It was a strange place for me in the beginning since they kept talking about God, who at that time had become my enemy. Why had he let me go through so much suffering?&rdquo;Three days into the programme, Kabochi had given up and was ready to go back to the streets but the officials talked and counselled him, convincing him to stay. &ldquo;Looking back, that was the best decision I ever made.&rdquo;His dreadlocks were cut and he would have a meal and a shower on a daily basis. While in the streets Kabochi had forgotten the freshness that came with taking a shower. &ldquo;I was stinking and I knew it. I would see people hold their nostrils every time I passed by but I did not care then.&rdquo;Three months into the programme, Kabochi got saved, a decision which changed his life completely. &ldquo;I completed the rehab successfully but without clear direction on where to go but my spirit was renewed.&rdquo;He would later be sponsored to join a Bible school, and after three years, he graduated with advance diploma in Bible Studies and Theology. By this time, he knew he wanted to reach out to addicts and bring them back to life. Today, the 33-year-old Kabochi spends his days in drug dens, convincing addicts to change. &ldquo;I bring addicted youth from the streets into the rehab and even get them sponsored,&rdquo; said the licensed pastor with Kenya Assemblies of God and the assistant pastor at Zimmerman New Beginnings Church.He said nowadays, drug peddlers call him when they come across an addict who is willing to stop the abuse. &ldquo;There are many people who want to stop the addiction but they don&rsquo;t know how to do it.&rdquo; Kabochi hopes that such people would get to him. &ldquo;I have been there and I know the pain. Let anyone who knows an addict who has the urge to drop the addiction bring such a person to me.&rdquo; He urged families to accept those from rehab without discrimination. &ldquo;Life is already tough for them, don&rsquo;t make it worse. All they need is love.&rdquo;