Since Independence, the leadership of the Somalis in Kenya has resided in Garissa county. This has been a product of complex interactions of population, proximity to Nairobi and individual political talents. More interesting, is the happenstance that a single family has managed to produce a preponderance of successful political leaders in succession.Either by marriage or clan consanguinity, General (Rtd) Mohamoud Mohamed&rsquo;s family is without doubt the Kennedys of Garissa, and by extension, the Somalis of Kenya. From the top respected army general who played a historical role that ensured Kenya never suffered the scourge of rule by junta, the humble long-serving Cabinet minister Yusuf Haji to the current Majority leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale, the family seems to have more than its share of political talents.In the wings, we have Ali Korane, who is waiting to wrest the governor seat from incumbent Nathif Jama. But given the intricacy of clan arithmetic and the performance of Jama, it is hard to call this race, yet. Korane has the advantage of novelty, public service experience and connection with the royalty of Garissa. But ironically, his clan identity may work against his campaign.On the other hand, Nathif has the advantage and disadvantage of incumbency, and prospects of benefitting from negotiated democracy, especially given the presence of Duale and Haji in the positions of MP and Senator respectively. But given the teething problems facing governors across the country, his baggage may be too heavy to be accepted by the voters as innocent mishaps.I am not suggesting here that the family has a complete stranglehold on the county, but rather their presence in all the post-Jomo Kenyatta administrations confirms the family&rsquo;s ability to adapt to the changing political environment and keep themselves at the top, irrespective of the prevailing political dispensation. They have had their share of setbacks but this may be due to the intricate clan balancing processes that operate in NEP and are perfected by the Garre in Mandera.Garissa has also produced Haji, who seems to defy all political waves. This is a man with a wealth of experience in public administration and government like no other figure in the entire NEP region. He worked his way up the provincial administration to become a confidant of President Daniel Moi. He survived very grave moments of land clashes in the Rift Valley as the provincial commissioner. He was at the helm of the national security edifice as the Defence minister at the dark moment of terror attacks by al Shabab that almost brought the NEP region to its knees. It was a hard time that forced Kenya to take the fight against the terror militants inside Somalia.Unlike the usual loud ramblings of politicians in the country, Haji is not at all verbose. He prefers the tested strategy of doing things behind the glare. He doesn&rsquo;t just say things. He does them,as an administrator par excellence. His strength emanates from his simplicity. Under the slim structure, there is a steel framework that can withstand political upheavals. His political challengers always underestimate him, but, as Farah Maalim would testify, you can bank on his ability to remain relevant in Garissa politics for as long as he is interested.On the other end of the spectrum is Maalim. He is the lone voices of the opposition in the entire NEP. A sharp debater with a brilliant brain that refuses to accept the status quo &mdash; the closest to Raila Odinga we have in the NEP. Maalim enjoys the respect and support of Somalis as far offshore as Somaliland and Djibouti.His brief stint as Deputy Speaker was the closest he came to a position with executive functions. His abilities and parliamentary contributions to the political advancement of NEP are widely acknowledged but sadly, his penchant for opposition politics will not allow us to see his managerial or rather executive, potential, unless NASA pulls the red carped from under Jubilee.At the moment, Garissa has the vibrant go-getter in Duale. His ranking in Jubilee and the government at large had made Garissa take command of the NEP, and Somalis, at large a notch higher. To cap this, he is from the Kennedys of the NEP through marriage and clan consanguinity.Duale, however, is not the silver spoon-in-mouth type. He has established a close and visible relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto through sheer hard work. His record as the Majority leader speaks for itself. His work with Muslims at large is unsurpassed in our recent history. It takes a very clannish or anti-Jubilee diehard to refuse what Duale has achieved in his brief tenure as Garissa Town MP.Ironically, what endears Duale to the Somalis is his unflinching bravery, his warrior demeanour. His disdain for political correctness may irritate some but his supporters within Jubilee and the Somali community see a non-nonsense defender of Jubilee who is more than ready to tussle with NASA heavyweights.The road from curfews, emergency laws and alien cards to number three in political power has not been easy for NEP and Somalis at large. In Duale, Garissa is at the heart of political power in Kenya, effectively making Uhuru and Ruto the leaders who have brought the Somalis to the decision table. The political fate of the Somalis is thus in the hands of the voters of Garissa Township. They may either fall into the intricate clan arithmetic or decide to protect their successful MP.The August 8 polls are thus very interesting for the county&rsquo;s political prospects. Will the voters of Garissa Town opt to swap a full partner in Jubilee with Maalim in NASA? Will they faithfully choose to accept promises made in notorious opposition memorandums over the tangible position of leader of Majority? Or will they fall for the machinations of clan loyalty and forget the bigger picture at the national level?Substantial numbers of voters in the NEP and across the country love the intellectual discourse of Maalim and respect his vision, but if political realism reigns in Garissa, residents need to make a serious audit of their collective interests beyond the county and look at the national picture. Without discounting Maalim&rsquo;s abilities and vision, it will be political retardation if the county sacrifices Duale on the clan altar. The writer is a political commentator