Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye has criticised county elected leaders for boycotting a Wednesday event marking four years of devolution.The event was at the St Luke&rsquo;s Catholic Church in Loitokitok town, Kajiado South subcounty. The county government took stock of its achievements and problems. Anger about the boycott prompted the governor to spend much of his time lashing out at Jubilee leaders.Only Magadi MCA Peter Pariken of ODM was present. The rest, including Senator Peter Mositet and MPs Mary Seneta and Katoo ole Metito, snubbed it.Nkedianye said the leaders let him down. He urged residents to send them into political oblivion come August 8.&ldquo;May they all fail to come back after the next general election because they do not deserve to be your true leaders,&rdquo; the governor told more than 2,000 people who attended.Nkedianye said he invited all leaders three weeks ago. He singled out assembly speaker Johnson Osoi, whom he accused of barring MCAs from attending.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s bad manners of the highest order for elected leaders to shun issues of development,&rdquo; Nkedianye said.He blamed it on party politics. The governor is a member of ODM, a NASA affiliate. The majority of elected leaders belong to Jubilee.&ldquo;Out of 41 MCAs in the county assembly, only three came from my party. I thank God because we stood firm without their support,&rdquo; Nkedianye said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s through God&rsquo;s mercies that I have brought this county to this point in development.&rdquo;He said development has no political party and leaders must come together for the benefit of residents, regardless of their party affiliation.Seats reserved for the leaders remained empty until the end of the function.&ldquo;Voters are our bosses. They are not happy. May the hand that made them win deny them leadership at the upcoming poll,&rdquo; Nkedianye said, adding that the leaders are &ldquo;wayward and don&rsquo;t know the direction they are heading&rdquo;.He urged residents to reelect him for his development record and commitment to war on corruption.