Governor Evans Kidero has warned aspirants against causing violence during ODM party primaries.He said the party will not tolerate violence and will take decisive action against the offenders. &ldquo;Violence will not be tolerated, not only in ODM and NASA, but also the other side [Jubilee],&rdquo; Kidero, also the ODM point man and head of the party campaigns in Nairobi, said.He urged Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery to be alert and not to apply double standards in dealing with violent politicians.&ldquo;When problems break out on our side, he is swift in taking action but if it is the other side, then he is slow to act. We are still waiting for action to be taken against those who drew 23 guns in Dagoretti,&rdquo; Kidero said.&ldquo;We are still waiting for action to be taken against those who went to Eastleigh with guns. And we are still waiting for action to be taken against those who caused violence at Bomas.&rdquo;Kidero spoke after attending a service at the Nairobi West Prison SDA Church on Saturday.Yesterday, he said he will convene a meeting of all candidates after the nominations to commit to peaceful campaigns. &ldquo;Nairobi is the epicentre of the Kenyan politics. All communities are here and it is the seat of power. It must be peaceful and I&rsquo;m leading by example,&rdquo; Kidero said.ODM primaries have in the past been marred by chaos. Last month, one person died in Mathare when supporters of Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang&rsquo; and Senator Elizabeth Ongoro clashed. The two are eyeing the Ruaraka MP seat.Last week, Ongoro&rsquo;s supporters caused chaos at Orange House, when she stormed the party headquarters, claiming there were plans to lock her out of the Ruaraka parliamentary seat.On Thursday, one person was killed after supporters of Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma clashed. The two will face off in the nominations for the ODM governor ticket.Kidero said ODM is ready for the nominations and assured participants the exercise will be free and fair.He urged those who will lose in the primaries to remain in the party and support those who will win so that they can send the Jubilee Party home. &ldquo;We should support each other after the primaries. Our aim is to ensure that Jubilee goes home. And we are confident they will go home,&rdquo; Kidero said. The governor is among eight sitting ODM governors who last week received direct nominations.He faces a fierce battle from the Jubilee Party. Hopefuls Peter Kenneth, Margaret Wanjiru and Senator Mike Sonko are all eyeing to unseat him through the Jubilee ticket.The governor will, however, have to wait until the Jubilee Party conducts its nominations later this month, to know his opponent.