The national government yesterday rolled out a Sh200 million programme to check the armyworm threat in 11 counties.Agriculture CS Willy Bett urged the county governments to cooperate with the national government to fight the pest that has become a big threat to national food security.&ldquo;We want the county governments of the affected areas to be proactive and educate farmers on the pest,&rdquo; he said.Bett spoke when he launched the programme in Kiminini constituency, Trans Nzoia county. Other counties affected by the Fall armyworm are Baringo, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kericho, Nakuru, Nandi, Narok, Siaya and Uasin Gishu.The CS said they have decided to start the programme in Trans Nzoia since it is the bread basket of the country.&ldquo;This is where the seed is produced and from here we can easily save future crops,&rdquo; Bett said.A week ago, the Trans Nzoia government announced it has set aside an emergency fund of Sh45 million to fight armyworm.Governor Patrick Khaemba said more than 500 hectares of land under maize have been attacked by the pest. &ldquo;The Fall armyworm is new in Africa and it attacks maize in all stages and spreads very fast,&rdquo; he said.Khaemba said the pest is not noticeable to farmers, unlike the traditional armyworm. &ldquo;It comes either in the form of a stalk borer or a cutworm and a farmer may not be aware that the farm is infested,&rdquo; he said. Khaemba said that one moth lays close to 2,000 eggs and it has a lifespan of 30 days.He said the current humid weather condition is conducive for multiplication of the Fall armyworm. Khaemba said the armyworm can wipe out almost 100 per cent of the entire food crop.He said the pesticides in the market are ineffective. &ldquo;The chemicals that kill them are so costly that one litre costs about Sh20,000. You can spend a lot of money and end up failing to control the pest if you use the wrong chemicals,&rdquo; Khaemba said. &ldquo;We require a lot of support since the best approach to manage the pest is through aerial spray.&rdquo; Trans Nzoia Agriculture chief officer Mary Nzomo said most farmers are unaware the pest has affected their fields.She said the challenge they face is identifying the right chemicals to deal with the pest. Nzomo urged farmers to do regular scouting.