There was confusion and anxiety at the Kitui Multipurpose Hall yesterday, where results for the Wiper governor and senator primaries were to be tallied after election officials made a no-show.Candidates and their supporters were stranded, not knowing what to make of the disappearance of returning officer Joseph Mutinda. Mutinda had on Tuesday promised he would release the results by yesterday morning.Disillusioned supporters of Governor Julius Malombe who was contesting against Senator David Musila urged Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to intervene and ensure the results are released.Led by the Kitui county KNCCI chairman Duncan Singi, they called a press conference and said they were worried the delay might mean the results were being doctored.&ldquo;The people of Kitui have gone to the polls and have made their decision. We want Kalonzo to ensure the results announced reflect the residents wish,&rdquo; Singi said.Provisional results from Malombe&rsquo;s agents that were posted on social media, indicated the governor had garnered 85,781 votes, while Musila had 72, 778.Malombe&rsquo;s supporters said he had beaten Musila by 13,003 votes. Wiper Senate aspirant Enoch Wambua, a former editor at the Standard, also expressed discontent on the delay in the releasing of the results.He alleged he had won the primaries. He said he garnered 99,694, while his opponent Paul Mutisya got 38,548 votes.Wambua said he made the decision to announce his own results, because of the delay by the Wiper election officials. &ldquo;Your guess is as good as mine. Why have the Wiper election officials delayed to release the results. There is something fishy going on,&rdquo; he said.Wambua said he is confident the results he announced were the true reflection of how people voted. He said he will not accept any other result.Police and journalists camped at the tallying centre.It was reported that constituency returning officers for Kitui East, Kitui South, Kitui West also disappeared with the results.The returning officer for Mwingi Central arrived at the county tallying hall yesterday at dawn, but he did not hand over the results as there was nobody to receive them.Speaking to the media on Tuesday evening, Mutinda said he would first validate the results before making the announcement.He said returning officers at the constituency level had delayed delivering the results.&ldquo;The elections board is operating on a shoestring budget, resulting in logistical challenges. I want to assure you that results will be announced to the public once they are delivered. There will be no alterations,&rdquo; Mutinda said.