ODM is prepared to conduct nominations in its four Nyanza stronghold counties, National Elections Board secretary Bob Arunga has said. Yesterday he said all election materials have been arranged and he expects the party elections to run smoothly.ODM will conduct its nominations in Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya today.Arunga said the materials were dispatched to reach their destinations on time so voting begins early.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve put all necessary measures to ensure the exercise runs without hitches in all the four counties,&rdquo; he said. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Arunga and Nyanza regional police commander Willy Lugusa said they are ready for a peaceful exercise.Arunga said they will be on the ground to observe the process. He urged supporters and aspirants to trust them, saying they will deliver credible nominations. &ldquo;Some party NEB officials like me will be actually the observers of the exercise. We will be on the ground and our presence goes in tandem with discharging our mandate, which is to make is a free, fair and credible exercise,&rdquo; he said.ODM draws much support from the region and any dubious nomination is likely to cause a fallout, which will not go down well with the party.Arunga dismissed reports that the process is already flawed following claims the party has preferred candidates.The secretary also distanced the NEB from claims of ballot papers allegedly already marked in favour of the preferred candidates.&ldquo;I assure supporters and aspirants that there are no preferred persons in the exercise. The purported leaked ballot papers do not belong to ODM. Our ballot papers have security mark on them. We shouldn&rsquo;t buy such rumours,&rdquo; Arunga said. Lugusa said the majority of aspirants have assured the security team of keeping the peace. &ldquo;We hope politicians are going to keep their promise of maintaining peace throughout election process, otherwise they stand being arrested,&rdquo; he said. The police boss said they have deployed enough security officers to guard against possible violence. Lugusa urged the parties to maintain peace. &ldquo;Let everybody be an ambassador of peace. Politicians and residents should let us know any awkward behavior aimed at perpetuating violence for quick response,&rdquo; he said.