The political wars between the ODM establishment and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria appear to continue unabated. Last week, ODM dispatched its Kiambu county chair CN Mbugua to join a door-to-door campaign for Kuria&rsquo;s opponent Joyce Ngugi. The dual assault by the county ODM chair and former MP Moses Mwihia is said to be giving the outspoken MP sleepless nights. The incumbent will face a titanic battle in defending his seat.***** A storm is brewing at the Meru County Assembly after the HR department was last week instructed to write and deliver an appointment letter in the middle of the night to a candidate who ranked third in an interview for Deputy Clerk of the Assembly conducted barely three days earlier. A senior County Assembly boss is said to have overturned the decision of the County Assembly&rsquo;s Service Board and ordered the appointment of a candidate with no proven experience in parliamentary procedure as required. Some MCAs have now written to the anti-graft agency, seeking a probe into the matter. They have also sworn to take up the matter on the floor of the House. The position was one of several vacancies announced mid-last year, but was hurriedly cancelled after several MCAs raised issues with the process.***** A group of MPs from Kisii has disparaged as nonsense a certain pollster which they argue is contracted by incumbent governors to sway public opinion. The bitter lawmakers accuse the firm of cooking the polls to project sitting governors as too popular to lose at the August 8 polls. The MPs have threatened to move to court to block the company from releasing any further results, claiming it is biased and engaged in unethical practices. The MPs also claim that one of them was overheard to remark at Parliament Buildings, &ldquo;This is nonsense, does this company have enough personnel to be releasing poll results on a weekly basis?&rdquo;***** A cartel based at Orange House has been accused of running parallel systems, including management of finances, to the detriment of the party&rsquo;s operations. The cartel, led by a youthful former aide to party leader Raila Odinga, has been reportedly collecting millions from governors in the name of enabling the party to facilitate its rallies. At some event at the Coast recently, the gang leader is said to have pocketed over Sh1 million from Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to meet hotel expenditures for some party members who flew from Nairobi. Unfortunately, the flamboyant operative vanished into thin air with the money, an incident that saw a number of party officials and party bloggers detained at a high-end hotel over accrued hotel bills.