A Court of Appeal in Juba has ordered the retrial of four Kenyans who had been jailed for 72 years.They were among 16 people who in June last year were imprisoned over allegations of forgery and money laundering, resulting in the loss of $14 million (Sh1.8 billion) from President Salva Kiir&rsquo;s office.They were held at a military detention facility for nine months. Then they went on trial for five months and were subjected to what many legal experts call a further miscarriage of justice.The four worked for Click Technologies Company, with Ravi Ghaghda serving as a Business Development manager, Boniface Muriuki as Sales and Development manager, while Anthony Keya and Anthony Mwadime were employees. Their families have lobbied to have them provided with legal aid through the Kenyan embassy in Juba and the Foreign Affairs ministry to get a fair trial.They even asked that the four be brought back to stand trial in Kenya. These efforts failed as Foreign Affairs officials often ignored them and at times gave false promises. The ruling on Tuesday provides hope not only to the convicts but also their families. In March the families held a vigil in Nairobi&rsquo;s Intercontinental hotel to demand their release. The Appeals court, in an 80-page ruling, quashed the imprisonment and directed that the accused remain in Juba Central Prison as the retrial is heard and determined. &ldquo;To us as families, the ruling comes as [the] biggest relief, a new day, and we sincerely hope the Kenyan government this time round will help with [the much-] needed legal aid so as they can undergo a fair trail,&rdquo; Tejal Ghaghda, Ravi&rsquo;s youngest sister, said. The four were detained and investigated for about one year and tried without lawyers before they were sentenced.Last month the Foreign Affairs ministry denied the Kenyan government had abandoned the four. Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed told Parliament she would follow up the matter but the families of the four said no action had been taken.Via Twitter, the ministry said, &ldquo;It is not true that the [South Sudan four] have been ignored.&rdquo; It said it was following the proceedings keenly but &ldquo;cannot prosecute the case in public at the risk of jeopardising negotiations&rdquo;.