In July 2016: The Star exclusively reported that Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi was reaching out to ODM leader Raila Odinga, Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang'ula and Wiper chief Kalonzo Musyoka for the formation of a supper alliance to face Jubilee. October 10: Star reported that talks between Mudavadi, Raila, Wetang'ula and Kalonzo were making progress for the formation of the alliance. October 20: Star reported that Raila, Kalonzo, Wetang'ula and Mudavadi were preparing to sign a pre-election agreement. Star reported that Raila was scheduled to meet several close allies to discuss the super alliance. January: Star reported that NASA leaders were discussing the framework for the registration of NASA as a coalition. February 8: Star reported how NASA was planning to share power, revealing that the coalition had agreed to work within the Constitution and will not, as suggested earlier, create positions of Prime Minister and two deputies . April 6: The Star reported that NASA technical committee had settled on Raila as the presidential candidate and Kalonzo as running mate. April 13: Star reported how Kalonzo and Mudavadi held a one-and-a-half hour private meeting amid a storm on who will be NASA flagbearer. April 14: Star reported that naming of Raila as NASA flagbearer was causing more heat in the coalition after it emerged that the former premier had late last year reportedly promised Mudavadi the NASA presidential ticket. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka would be the running mate and Raila would be Prime Minister. April 17: the Star reported that Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang'ula had joined forced against Raila. Star reported that NASA’s Coastal retreat to name the presidential flag bearer had collapsed in disarray after the three complained that the said selection was biased in favour of Raila. April 24: the Star reported that Kalonzo was pushing Raila hard for the NASA ticket and Mudavadi as running mate. April 27: the Star reported on how NASA principals had finally agreed that it will be Raila as NASA flagbearer, Kalonzo as deputy and the posts the other three will get. This structure was unveiled yesterday. 