Bandari FC are set to lose Danny Sserenkuma and David King&rsquo;atua ahead of the SportPesa Premier League season next week.Sserenkuma is headed for trials in South Africa while King&rsquo;atua is set to try his luck in Sweden. Bandari FC secretary, Edward Oduor, yesterday said they have off-loaded 12 players and brought in eight as coach Paul Nkata finally linked up with the team ahead of the league kick-off next week.According to Oduor, Gor Mahia duo of Jacob Kelly and Enock Agwanda lead the list of the new arrivals which also include Michael Luvutsi (Thika United), Timothy Owino (Nakumatt), Noah Abich (Sofapaka), Fred Nkata (Tusker), Wilberforce Juma (Shanzu United) and John Avira formerly of Passenga High School in Aberdares region.Oduor said the new Players have gelled well with the rest of the squad and expressed optimism that the team will make an impression.&ldquo;We have carefully done our homework and recruited well right from the technical bench to the playing unit. I therefore believe sky is the limit,&rdquo; Oduor said.Apart from Sserenkuma and Kingatua, who have gone for trials, the other big names that have left the dockers include long serving left full back Abdulatif Omar, Goerge Abege, Anthony Kimani, David Gateri, Victor Ndinya and Abbass Muhidin. Odour said other youthful players have been loaned to different premier league and local clubs where they can gain more playing time.Elsewhere, newly promoted National Super League side, Isibania FC have recruited 13 players to bolster the team ahead of this season. Team manager, David Chacha, said the players were picked from the 68 who turned up for rigorous trials at their Isibania base.Coach Daniel Musa and his assistant Fred Kibe conducted the trials. &ldquo;We lost three players who went to Tanzania and called for trials. We signed 13 new players and retained 17 others. We have already started the process of registering them with the federation,&rdquo; said Chacha.Tanzanian trio of Jafari Maneno, Michael Bosco and goalkeeper Jackson Wandwi were signed from Mwanza-based Pampa FC. The club also signed Moses Mbisiri, Nelson Mandela, Feliz Ouma, Collins Oiwe, Victor Oketch, Samson Osinera, George Otieno, Alex Juma, Hillary Ojwang and Raymond Otieno.&ldquo;We signed a mixture of youthful and experienced players. I&rsquo;m confident they will blend well with the players we retained before the league starts,&rdquo; said Chacha.He at the same time announced that the club will play their home matches at Sony&rsquo;s Awendo Green Stadium due to the unavailability of their Kenya Revenue Authority Customs grounds and Migori Stadium.&ldquo;We have been forced to use Awendo Stadium because our stadium will not be ready on time while Migori Stadium has not been handed over by the contractor to the county government,&rdquo; Chacha said. He noted that it will be expensive for them to play home matches away from their base, saying club will pay Sh10,000 to use the Sony facility besides paying security, ball boys and ambulance.