Growing up, my parents always taught me to be mindful of other people. They also taught me and my siblings to love our neighbours as we love ourselves. This is a lesson I have held dearly in my life since my days as a student at Mwaginyungu Primary School in Wundanyi county. Right now, I am a deejay in Mai Mahiu town and also an entrepreneur running several businesses.WEEKDAY5AM-6AMI usually wake up at 5am every day. The first thing I do is pray. This is a lesson I got from my parents since I was a child. It&rsquo;s also important to renew and strengthen your relationship with God daily. I have a shower then head to prepare my breakfast. It is always a simple meal, and quickly made. Mostly it comprises of some Weetabix or tea and cakes. I am a businessman and deejay. On weekdays I diligently run my business in Mai Mahiu town.6AM-7AMI visit the Kubamba DJ Kampus at Nanak House in Nairobi. This is where I practise the art of deejaying with the ultimate hope of being the best at what I do. Here I also get to learn from those who have already set roots in the industry and know what is required of me to reach my goals.9AM-10AMI then visit my business in Nairobiwhere I print custom-made T-shirts. I also meet my clients who place their orders and I always make sure I live up to their demands.10AM-8PMMy shop is open throughout the day, many at times until 8pm. There are customers busy coming in and out while selecting goods they want to buy throughout the day. You have to have a lot of patience in this business as sometimes you may have low sales during the day only for it to pick up in the evening when many people are coming from work. WEEKENDSMy Saturdays are normally dedicated to my deejaying activities. I also sometimes attend weddings, where I provide music and sound equipment. On other days, its providing entertainment during graduation ceremonies. Making people happy and seeing them dance is what makes me happy. This is one of the greatest satisfactions I get as a deejay. A quote that I love is by Victor Hugo that says &ldquo;music expresses that which cannot be said and on which it is impossible to be silent&rdquo;.