Sportpesa Premier League side, Mathare United have signed six more players in a bid to beef up the squad ahead of the season next month.Among the new faces are midfielder Ahmed Bossi Abdalla, who was promoted from the Under-20 junior side after emerging top scorer with five goals during the 2016 KPL U20 tournament. The youngster helped the slum boys become the first side to retain the KPL U-20 title last month.Bossi will be joined by five others, who impressed during the trials held at the Goan Institute. They are goalkeeper Mark Kioko, defenders Moses Mburu, Haroun Junior and midfielders Moses Gitau and Elijah Mwanzia, formerly of third tier side, Coast Stima.Despite not disclosing the duration of their contracts, coach Francis Kimanzi said they are delighted to have completed the signings of the players, as they eye better results this season. &ldquo;We have zeroed in on talented players below the age of 23 and a few experienced ones from the KPL, whom we can incorporate in our system to ensure we have a great team for the future,&rdquo; Kimanzi added.The 2008 KPL champions, who have already started the pre-season training, have now signed a total of 11 players and are still eyeing five more before the season kicks off next month. Earlier on, defensive midfielders Abubakar Mohammed and Kennedy Ayako joined from Liberty Academy and NSL side Wazito respectively. Others are midfielder Roy Okal (Ushuru), striker Chris Ochieng (Nairobi Stima) and goalkeeper Levis Opiyo, formerly of Western Stima.Mathare United media liaison officer, Samuel Gacharira, also confirmed they will drop three players before the season kicks off as they eye a strong team of 30. The new players, he said will fight to replace regulars like midfielder Dennis Orenge, who has joined KCB, goalkeeper Robert Mboya and Duke Abuya, who signed for new boys Kariobangi Sharks.Others are defender Robinson Kamura and Wyvonne Issuza, who are headed to AFC Leopards, and Kenyan international midfielder, Eric Johanna who is set to join Swedish Division One side, Vasalund IF. Meanwhile, Mathare United have also been boosted with the return of midfielder Edward Seda, after undergoing a successful ankle surgery last season. Seda is currently undergoing light training. Another midfielder, Roy Siamba may be out for around six months as he has to undergo another knee surgery after he developed complications with the first surgery last year. United finished seventh in the SportsPesa League last season and are eyeing a top four finish this season.