The 2010 Constitution demands actions and interventions to address the disadvantaged and vulnerable position of women and girls caused by historical marginalisation and subjugation. It is therefore shocking that the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill 2016 in its inexplicable &lsquo;wisdom&rsquo; seeks to amend the Sexual Offences Act 2006 to lower the minimum age of consent to sex from 18 to 16 years.Proponents argue the amendment seeks to shield teenage boys who have &lsquo;consensual&rsquo; sex with their teenage girlfriends from prosecution. Granted, there have been a few such cases and these cannot be ignored,the Act cannot be solely to blame for this. Our society&rsquo;s conception of the place of the girl shares that blame. It neither listens to the girl nor allows her to speak for herself. We have appropriated her voice and become her self-appointed spokespersons. Despite the girl being the &lsquo;victim&rsquo; here, it is the boy or the girl&rsquo;s parents whose voices are heard and their narratives become the girl&rsquo;s story. Were the girl to tell her story, her boyfriend would possibly not be punished as a sex offender. As a first genuine step towards addressing such legal absurdities, the courts should be given discretion to accord a higher premium to the girl&rsquo;s testimony, where both subject and victim are children.Lowering the age of consent presents a number of problems. First, the proposal is downright unconstitutional. A child is defined by the Constitution as an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years. Everyone falling within this bracket is entitled to all the special rights of children in the Bill of Rights, particularly protection from abuse, harmful practices and violence. Lowering the age of consent exposes children entitled to the above constitutional protections to the possibility of sexual abuse, violence and exploitation. This is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution.Second, sex predators would gleefully have sex with 16 or 17-year-old children with the full protection of the law because these children would now be considered legally capable of consenting. The unfortunate statistical reality that appears lost to proponents of this monstrosity is that an overwhelming majority of defilement cases feature adults (mostly male) defiling children (mostly female). While there are teenagers having &lsquo;consensual&rsquo; sex with fellow teenagers (some of them have been charged with defilement) these pale in comparison. Those who stand to benefit from this proposal are male adults with depraved sexual appetites, not so much the boy.But as #JusticeForLiz sadly reminded us, the boy is also capable of as much gruesome sexual depravity as adults, if not worse. The proposal, therefore, seeks to take away one of the few legal protections available to the vulnerable girl and create open season for sexual predators. There can be no more outrageous a display of the thoughtlessness, recklessness and spite with which we approach the rights of women and girls.Third, the misogynistic contempt and patriarchal agenda of this proposal are annoyingly glaring. Once again, we are prescribing what we think is good for the girl and ignoring her voice, wishes, choices and autonomy. We have already decided on her behalf that she has a boyfriend; that she wants to have sex with this boyfriend; and that she needs us to amend the law to protect this boy&hellip;for her! In reality, we are not prescribing what is good for the girl, but rather what is good for the man and the boy. It is an attempt to divert attention from our collective failure to sustainably empower the girl and address entrenched misogyny that encourages and celebrates male sexual aggression. This is a deliberately and deftly crafted &lsquo;failure&rsquo; to ensure the perpetual societal subjugation of the girl and maintain the egg-shell status society accords the boy. In our typical pretentious nature, we have conveniently ignored the fact that,very recently, the National Assembly confirmed its misogynistic leanings by failing to pass the &lsquo;Gender Bill&rsquo;. So soon after, we are cheerleading for the anti-feminism bandwagon and handing the same National Assembly another nail to drive into the coffin of gender equality and equity.Recent Demographic and Health Survey, cases of teenage pregnancies in some counties exceed 25 per cent. Consequently, many girls drop out of school. It is therefore infuriating that we are adding to the woes of the girl under the pretext of protecting the boy. In recent years, we have made some progress against retrogressive laws and harmful practices and attitudes that confine the girl to a footnote in our country&rsquo;s story. However, we still have a long way to go. We therefore have a moral and legal obligation to resist any attempts at rolling back the few gains we have made and shutting the door on common sense.