Marriage is considered one of the most idealistic, &ldquo;sacred&rdquo; and vital unions in society. Earlier, a marriage could only take place between a man and woman. Over the generations, this notion has changed, and many other possibilities have surfaced with their own repercussions.Preconceived notions over gender had it that men are expected to earn, work, get married at whatever age they see fit; women to mend the household and get married at a certain age, so they wouldn&rsquo;t be considered &ldquo;leftovers&rdquo;. Perspectives are changing, societal norms are undergoing evolution, but at an extremely slow pace. Hence, in today&rsquo;s day and age, we still hear of incidents where women are forced into marriage against their will.Working women are frowned upon, and if they work, they are also expected to uphold the functioning of the household. Amongst the world&rsquo;s environs, a place that stands out and demonstrates this is China. One of the fastest growing economies in the world is still bound with shackles of the outdated thought process for the girl child. Recently, a short documentary piece was broadcasted worldwide, entitled &ldquo;China&rsquo;s Fake Boyfriends&rdquo;.The film paints the struggle of a 27-year-old working Chinese woman. Her parents puts immense pressure on her to get married, due to her growing age. Her traditional family still believes in the thought of the man being the breadwinner; he is the one to take care of her and secure her future. She works away from home, it&rsquo;s the Chinese New Year, she is to visit her parents and celebrate the festival with family.The pressure to marry is too much. She decides to go on an extremely popular website, and decides to rent a boyfriend for the holiday, just so her parents don&rsquo;t bother her. The existence and popularity of this website and many alike, proves this is a pressing issue. The family immediately figured out the facts. Amongst the negative backlash from her family, one positive did come out of this, they refrained from putting any marriage pressure on her, because they thought, she might repeat the act of bringing a complete stranger home again.The mindset towards this particular union needs to change.