Patricia Kihoro is a singer, actress, radio presenter, improv comedian and sporadic blogger from Nairobi, Kenya. She loves coffee, laughter, books, photography, African music, Kitenge fabric, her phone and smugly cruising past frustrated motorists stuck in traffic, while on her scooter. Patricia has dabbled in just about everything in the entertainment sphere.Soon after completing her Psychology degree in 2008, she joined a reggae band, and then participated in a regional televised singing competition where she emerged a finalist. She has since acted in numerous musical stage productions, as well as in a few TV series and a couple of award winning films. She has written articles for magazines and websites, emceed at events, released a couple of radio singles, been in a few of her friends music videos, hosted a popular radio show, participated in a Nigerian reality series, anchored the news on radio, (and very authoritatively at that), and shared a stage with musical artists such as Just A Band, Aaron Rimbui, Harry Kimani as well as American Jazz great, Gerald Albright.She has also been on tour in Europe, singing and dancing on stage 6 days a weeks for 3 months. Her biggest achievement so far has been writing, producing, directing and performing her own stage show, &ldquo;Life In The Single Lane&rdquo;, which was a surprising success, and sold out all six times she put it up. She may have a bit of an attention deficit problem, and is a self-confessed over thinker, but she seems to handle it all right.She currently is part of an improv comedy group, Because You Said So, that puts up a show every two months at Nairobi's popular Carnivore Restaurant. She is also a keen evangeliser of Kenyan and African artists and brands, something she does with enthusiasm with her weekly radio show, Afrocentral, where she showcases and highlights non mainstream African artists and personalities. She&rsquo;s not done yet, however, as she still has some albums to work on, a TV series to create, a book of short stories to write, and 12 children to bear. She will however, never go sky diving. Ever!Don't miss the premier of #TheSearch showing on Kiss TV this Sunday from 8PM.You can also catch the Livestream on Kiss TV's facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/KeepItKiss) on Sunday