Nairobi is the only city in the world with such an amazing national park, why do we want to destroy this legacy? International visitors who come to Nairobi and visit the Nairobi National Park are astonished by the sight of lions, giraffes, leopards, baboons and cheetahs among other wildlife roaming around the scenic open grass plains with a backdrop of the city&rsquo;s skyscrapers. This is a sight to behold. A legacy to be proud of and protect. It makes citizens of other countries across the world, which can only boast of cathedrals and rivers as tourist attractions, drool with envy. Since its creation in the 1940s, the park has withstood many threats through the city&rsquo;s development, under the colonial and post-colonial regimes. But the current concerted efforts to have the standard gauge railway pass through the park might be the straw that breaks the camel&rsquo;s back.It is clear from various conservationists that development of the SGR through the park will cause irreversible habitat fragmentation, degradation and loss, leading to a loss of wildlife in the park. The dangers posed to the park by the railway have resulted in a protracted tussle amongst different players, with some even going to court. Those advising the government to go ahead with the railway argue it is possible to mitigate habitat fragmentation in similar ways as was done in the Tsavo National Park. But the Nairobi National Park is only 117.21 km2 , compared to Tsavo, whose combined area of both Tsavo East and Tsavo West is over 22,000 km2. The NPP is simply too small and its fragile flora and fauna cannot withstand the onslaught of massive construction and the imposition of the railway and the busy traffic it will generate. The SGR will also likely bring other threats to the park in it&rsquo;s wake such as pollution and land grabbing.Development has been at loggerheads with conservation the world over and, sadly, conservation tends to lose out because the immediate economic gains from mega projects such as the SGR tend to overshadow the social, cultural and economic gains derived from conservation. It takes committed citizens and leaders to realise that the loss of protected areas such as the NPP can never be reversed. That means if we let this happen, we will deprive our children of their heritage and the thrill of seeing a lion in the vicinity of Nairobi. Will they ever forgive us? The fact that Nema has rubber-stamped the SGR comes as no surprise. They have done the same for construction of buildings on river beds and other riparian areas within and outside the city. They also failed to uphold residential area housing densities, amongst many other cop outs to corporate interests. It is sad that this institution, which is paid for by taxpayer money to provide leadership in protection of our environment, has so often failed to uphold the public interest, and yet no action is taken to reform it. Environment CS Judy Wakhungu recently shared some great developments on her Facebook page: &ldquo;Kenya has signed the Paris Agreement on climate change. Signing this agreement shows that Kenya is committed to reversing the effects of climate change through mitigation efforts, while supporting its citizens and the environment in adaptation. Signing also commits countries to refrain from acts that would defeat the purpose of the agreement&rdquo;.What a paradox then that Kenya is achieving so much at the global level, but failing on its domestic actions to protect the environment and wildlife? The effects of climate change, which include prolonged droughts, will exacerbate the negative impacts of the SGR on the national park and its flora and fauna. On the positive side, the railway is likely to reduce greenhouse gases from freight, but it can do so without causing damage to the park. Is it not the duty of the relevant agencies, led by the CS, to go back to the drawing board and re-evaluate the impacts of their actions and omissions on the park? Remember, we can rubber-stamp undesirable actions and make them legal, but this does not make them moral. History never forgets and we will be judged by current and future generations for what we were prepared to stand up for. Let us pressure the government to re-route the SGR out of the park.