Kenyans have joined Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura and his wife in celebrations after she gave birth to triplets.Mukami Mwaura bore two boys and one girl on Thursday."Feeling grateful!!! Mukami and I have been blessed with triplets. This is the best day of our life. Our God is truly faithful," Mwaura said on Facebook."Akiahidi, atatenda (When he promises, he delivers) ...We truly thank God!"The couple was congratulated friends and relatives, in the post that had at least 850 comments and was shared more than 90 times."You are a genius. While we take six years to get that, you just accomplish it once," Omai Kevin Judson said.Leonard Sambu said "Waaaaaa! triplets for the first offspring. so sharp, man [sic]."Kahoro Kaibii wrote: "Wow ... Mwaura ata wewe hautaki ujinga kusema kweli (you do not joke around)... Wow ... eti wangapi (How many was that again)? Congratulations." Fortune Quinton said: "Wow!! An indicator of triplet victory as MP Ruiru. Those opposing Hon Mwaura, get the message clear. This is your year of prosperity, congrats Mheshimiwa [sic]."Faith Harry said: "Congratulations on the birth of your triplets. God is awesome. May the children grown in favour with God and men. Your family is blessed."Lorna Waithera said: "Exactly! God's promises are fulfilled if you believe. This year we are blessed."The coupletied the knot in a colourful church wedding at Citam PAC University, Thika Road, in 2015.Mukami is a senior programme officer with the Centre for Public Health and Development.The invite-only ceremony saw prominent personalities from political and business circles swarm the venue with state of the art cars, as others flew in from as far as Kampala, Arusha and Kigali.Mwaura has been in the limelight for defecting from ODM to Jubilee. He told a rally in Taita Taveta that Raila Odinga's party will not win the presidency as it lacks respect.The MP criticised ODM party for "forcefully" removing his name from the party's register.ODM wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties on the expulsion of Mwaura and nine other rebels, saying their names needed to be removed from the members register.Read: ODM writes to parties registrar on expulsion of rebel members