At the crack of dawn, Muli Kimende, 24, emerges from a makeshift temporary bedroom under a tree near Sosoma Primary School in Mwingi East subcounty, Kitui county, to make breakfast for her three children sleeping in the cold. She looks around herself and collects a heap of twigs, which she uses to light a fire. Hers is one of about 100 families that have fled their homes and are living in the bush around Sosoma, as marauding Somali bandits escalate attacks. The man of the family, Kimende Madefu, does not join them for the night, as he is part of the community vigilante who have taken up bows and arrows to protect the displaced families. As the children and their mothers sleep the men keep vigil all night ready to repulse the enemy. During a visit to Sosoma on last Sunday, the Star has a first-hand experience of the degrading, sordid and the dehumanising conditions the fleeing families live in at the makeshift camp in the bush. The lucky ones have found refuge at the classrooms at Sosoma Primary School and Sosoma AIC church. &ldquo;We would rather die of cold than be found in our homes and be killed in cold blood by the merciless Somali bandits. Although we risk attacks from snakes and other wild animals like hyenas, we feel much safer here in the bush than at our homes or shambas,&rdquo; said Kimende. She said since November last year, when banditry attacks heightened, they have been living in this makeshift camp but the government does not appear to do anything to help them out. In the same camp, we found Makau Voya having returned from the nightlong surveillance task to join his family in their makeshift abode. &ldquo;We live a dog&rsquo;s life here. Our children no longer attend school, food is hard to come by and worse still, my family, just like the rest of the people here, sleep out in the cold,&rdquo; said Voya. Displaying his bow and a quiver full of arrows, he said it was the only weapon to keep his family safe, although it was inferior to the automatic rifles used by the bandits. &ldquo;In the event the bandits strike in the night, I can manage to dodge a bullet but I can assure you that a bandit cannot duck my poisoned arrow,&rdquo; says Voya. Mueni Mutuku, whom we found preparing sour milk for her children on Sunday morning, said her family fled their home in Mbembani subvillage two months ago. &ldquo;The Somali herders who graze their camels armed with guns and are ready to kill drove their camels into my farm and all crop was destroyed,&rdquo; said Mutuku, a mother of five. Cumulatively, about 2,000 families have fled their homes and shambas in Kathungu, Kitungati, Ngooni, Tumbili, Ndiuni, Usungeni, Katangini and Mbembani village sub-units in the larger Sosoma ward in Mwingi, as the Somali bandits reign terror in the area. Families fleeing the murderous and gun-wielding bandits sleep out in the open under trees and have to persevere the biting night cold. Many are the times the families have to forego meals as they now live away from their shambas. They depend on food assistance from big-hearted donors to survive. Sosoma village administrator Beatrice Mbithe said that since last December the displaced persons have received food donations from Parliamentary aspirant Gedion Mulyungi, area MCA Nelson Kitema and businessman Nzomo Munyithya. Sosoma AIC church pastor Jacob Musyoki, who has hosted some of the IDPs, accused the government of lethargy in dealing with the banditry, yet their hideout is an &ldquo;open secret&rdquo;. &ldquo;Why can&rsquo;t the security apparatus overrun the illegal manyattas at Mwanzele along the Garissa Road, which are a known hideout for the bandits? Why can&rsquo;t the government mop up the deadly arsenal hidden at Mwanzele by the herders and bring this banditry menace to a stop,&rdquo; he asked. He attributed the mayhem and the disruption of life in Sosoma area and Ukasi at large to Mwanzele, an illegal settlement that the outlandish pastoralist community has set up inside Kitui land. &ldquo;Not only should the government disarm the criminals at Mwanzele but the entire illegal settlement should be dismantled,&rdquo; Musyoki said. He said living among people who have been turned into refugees in their own land as the government looked the other way. &ldquo;I have seen many who form part of my congregation, wear away economically, socially and emotionally,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The economy of the local has gone to the drain. Since they are always on the run and have no time to engage in any gainful economic activities and have also been forced out of their farms, they suffer serious food deficiency.&rdquo; The pastor said that emotionally, the social family fabric has been violated, disrupted and eroded. &ldquo;It is a really sorry state of affairs, where parents are forced to share a sleeping place with their children. This scenario is pathetic as some of the children have come of age and are mature,&rdquo; said Musyoki. The pastor further pointed out that his church had also received a beating from the banditry menace. &ldquo;Since about 2,000 people have been displaced and have fled, are a good chunk of those who come to church, the number of churchgoers has drastically gone down,&rdquo; he added. Last Sunday morning, tension ran high in Sosoma market as word filtered in that the Somali bandits had at around 6pm the previous day shot dead a herdsman, Kilungu Misyili, at Kitungati sub-village, hardly four kilometres away. The killing sparked off a spontaneous exodus from Kitungati as villagers fled from danger. Mbithe collapsed after receiving the news on phone. She was talking to journalists when she received the sad news. However, after she calmed down, she spoke to the media.&ldquo;For how long will we continue being killed like flies by these heartless bandits? Is the government seeing all this? What sin have we committed to face this kind of persecution on our own land?&rdquo; Mbithe asked. She said the IDPs want the government to offer a permanent solution to the banditry menace. &ldquo;People want to live in peace in their own land so they can freely go about their economic and social activities. They want the government to restore peace and assure them of their security,&rdquo; said the village administrator. Mbithe said in the meantime, the government should provide relief food and medical supplies to the displaced residents. &ldquo;Even with the escalation of banditry since late November, with residents fleeing from their homes and farms, the national government appears indifferent,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Because of sleeping outside in the cold, many children and the aged have suffered opportunistic maladies. People here need medicine, and since they do not have food, they also the need relief food,&rdquo; she said. Florence Mwende, a community volunteer, said the government should act fast to restore security. She criticised the government for in action as people continue to be killed and others being rendered homeless by the bandits. &ldquo;It is not a laughing matter but want to tell you for a fact that the women-folk have really suffered. This disruption of our social life has made our husbands unavailable,&rdquo; said Mwende. She said the residents hope that the government will restore normalcy. Mwende later on Sunday morning led the residents of Sosoma in blocking the police officers from collecting the body of Musyili when they arrived nearly 18 hours after he had been shot dead by the bandits. When the police arrived at the scene at 11 am last Sunday, Mwende told the Ukasi OCS Jacob Karisa the residents would not allow the body to be taken away, demanding the police first tracked down the killers before coming back to pick the dead body. &ldquo;Your interest is to collect dead bodies and not guaranteeing our security. We have said you are not going to take away the body of Kilungu before you pursue the killers and brought them to book,&rdquo; Mwende said. The police heeded to the demands by the residents. Although they traced the bandits&rsquo; footprints to Kitivoni dam, they were unable to catch up with them. They later came back and were allowed to collect the body for preservation. Even as the Ukasi area continues to bear the brunt of the bloody banditry activities, the neighbouring Ngomeni ward in Mwingi North sucounty has also not been spared the vagaries of the menace. Residents on Yumba Ndei, Inyanzae, Ikime and Kasiluni have not known peace for a long time. During a last Monday visit to Inyanzae area, where two people were shot dead in cold blood on Boxing Day, tension was still high as some residents were spotted carrying some personal effects as they fled their homes. Although not in large numbers, the Inyanzae residents were running away as they felt insecure that three gun-brandishing Somali bandits had the previous day ( last Sunday) opened fire at Kalunda Mulei, whom they found harvesting cowpeas in her farm. Mulei, a mother of 15 who escaped during the 11am incident, was not available for an interview as she had fled the area the same day after escaping death. Residents of Inyanzae said they have since last August been leaving in fear when two of their own were gunned down by the bandits. The bandits raid and attack the marginal areas of Ngomeni and Ukasi wards in Kitui often leaving a trail of blood. The two areas have borne the brunt of the banditry because of their proximity to Kitui-Tana River common border. Pastor Musyoki said pastoralist communities from without Kitui county have invaded the marginal areas of Kitui with over 2,500 camels. He said the herders, who are always armed with automatic rifles, have resorted to attacking and killing the locals to scare them away. &ldquo;Once the local Kambas abandon the farms for fear of being attacked by the gun wielding bandits who pose as herders, then the latter have always had a field day grazing their livestock in the fields that have been left behind,&rdquo; said the clergyman. Both Mwingi North MP John Munuve and the Ukasi MCA Nelson Kitema view the recurrent attacks and killings as an &ldquo;expansionist scheme&rdquo; by the pastoralist community. &ldquo;It is a move to expand their territory. They want to uproot the Kambas from their land and take it over. However, in my area, I am doing everything possible to sabotage their heinous scheme. At our level we have finalised plans for the locals to be given guns as homeguards by the government,&rdquo; said Munuve. Munuve, who was elected MP on Wiper ticket but has since switched camp to the ruling Jubilee, claimed last August that more than 13 people in his turf have been killed by the bandits. Since then, three more persons from Mwingi North were killed in Ukasi area in last December and January as they grazed cattle. &ldquo;It is not the ordinary banditry and cattle rustling we have been accustomed to since time immemorial. It is an overt move by the pastoralist community to ensure they overrun our land and make it theirs. Through the numerous attacks and killings, they want to instil fear among the locals until they permanently abandon their land,&rdquo; said Kitema. The MCA accused the government, especially the security arm, of doing little to protect his residents. &ldquo;Since 2013, at least 14 people have been killed in my area by the bandits, who pose as herders but being armed with powerful and automatic weapons, which they use to cause bloodshed,&rdquo; said MCA. Kitui Governor Julius Malombe last week expressed displeasure that the national government has been unable to guarantee the residents of Ukasi, Ngomeni and other peripheral areas of Kitui East and south of their security. He lamented that the residents have been left to their own devices in the wake of repeated banditry attacks. &ldquo;The first and foremost constitutional responsibility of the national government is to guarantee its citizens security of their lives and property,&rdquo; said Malombe. The governor was addressing a press conference in his office. He suggested the setting up of a GSU camp at the Katumba area of Kitui along the border with Tana River to ward off intrusion by the armed herders. He added that the national government should deploy surveyors to clearly define the actual common boundary between Kitui and Tana River counties. Speaking at the launch of mass voter registration in Kitui county last week, county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said the government is addressing insecurity in Sosoma and other marginal areas. Although he denied any people have fled their homes, Cherutich said security officers would accompany the voter registration officers to give them full protection. He said the government would not allow incidents of insecurity to compromise the voter registration.