Interpol yesterday said Aharubi Khatri &mdash; the man at the centre of the latest controversy between Governor Hassan Joho and the government &mdash; is not on their wanted list.Khatri was arrested on Friday in Mombasa in connection with alleged drugs trade and illegal possession of weapons.He is said to be related to the governor.There have been social media reports and allegations by MP Moses Kuria Khatri was wanted by Interpol.However, Nairobi Bureau Interpol head Julius Martin said the suspect, who was arrested by police in Mombasa over alleged drug trade and possession of weapons, is not in their database.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re not aware if he is among those wanted as per the latest Interpol Criminal Information System record. He&rsquo;s not appearing anywhere,&rdquo; he said yesterday.On Friday, Joho, accompanied by other politicians, protested against Khatri&rsquo;s arrest. Marwa said Joho tried to obstruct justice. Questions have arisen about why Khatri was arrested as a &ldquo;most wanted&rdquo; suspect and then released on Sh20,000 cash bail &mdash; without being charged. Joho says he was arrested when he protested Khatri&rsquo;s arrest. Police said he was not arrested.Kenya has obtained crucial information from Interpol in its war on drugs trafficking and organised crime. Last year, it posted information on 20 Kenyans wanted for crimes committed locally and abroad.Meanwhile, Khatri was interrogated further yesterday by the DCI at the regional police headquarters.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s unclear if the state will press any charges against him at this stage,&rdquo; said a senior officer leading the probe.At the weekend, IG Joseph Boinnet said they are probing Khatri for alleged smuggling of luxury vehicles from the UK in a syndicate. Khatri&rsquo;s bank accounts are being investigated.Senior officers confided Khatri is licensed to own guns, hence, it is not illegal for him to own more than three firearms, as alleged by Marwa. According to the Kenya Firearms Act, there is no limit to the number of firearms a may own. It says misconduct by a firearms holder can lead to revocation of his licences, even if they were not involved in an incident. Social media was abuzz with pictures of the man and claims there was a bounty on his head.