The secret of change is to focus all of your energy, not on fighting the old, but on building the new,&rdquo; Socrates, one of the greatest philosophers, said.Jubilee has been riding on that mantra ever since it won in the 2013 general election. It has now revolutionised Kenya&rsquo;s electronic system with initiatives such as setting up the Huduma Centres, a one stop shop where one can easily access government services and even from ones comfort at home through a mobile phone. The founders of the party have endeared themselves to the youth on digital platforms.Now, I understand, the Jubilee Party is set to go digital in its membership registration and in its primaries ahead of the general election.The party is set to introduce electronic membership cards that capture a member&rsquo;s details, including the name, the national ID card number and phone number on the card&rsquo;s unique barcode which when swiped through a card reader, reveals the details of the holder.The system is meant to ensure free, fair and transparent nominations in the context of one man one vote. This card will be the first of its kind in Kenya&rsquo;s political history.With the Jubilee Party going electronic in this registration, history will be on their side for transforming party nominations in this country, which have not only caused destruction of property in the past, but also deaths.It is debatable whether there has been a positive development in nominations since the infamous Kanu mlolongo or queue system of 1988. It involved party members lining up behind photographs of their preferred candidates. These elections were actually part of a larger plot to rig.The idea behind this seemingly bad joke was that, ideally, the candidate with the longest queue won the election. Kanu, under President Daniel Moi, had perfected the art. The system made sure that whoever it preferred was the winner &ndash; a longer queue or a shorter one, it didn&rsquo;t matter. However, as today&rsquo;s political parties boast doing things in a better manner, compared to the Kanu days, we still see chaotic nominations amid claims of rigging and favouritism.As usual and with the stakes high in both the opposition and the ruling party, the primaries will play a key role in the image and unity of the parties ahead of the polls. They will actually be a make-or-break moment.With the introduction of the smartcard, the question is, will that system help the party to save itself from what some claim is imminent post-nominations chaos?The other key question is how Jubilee&rsquo;s electronic membership card fits in the ongoing electoral laws standoff, with the opposition claiming Jubilee is returning the country to a manual electoral system though they claim to be digital. Will there be a manual backup system in the Jubilee membership registration? This could be a timely opportunity for the party to cclarify on the reasoning behind the call for backup systems, where technology is employed and why the nation should not take things for granted, come the August polls.If the card ensures clean nominations, Jubilee will have scored big in branding itself as a democratic party. It will fly with that momentum into the August polls.It is no secret that big parties have often suffered mass defections by leaders who miss out on tickets to other parties. The primaries are often marred by chaos and violence for lack of transparency.Many political parties are often on the receiving end of strong criticism for their failure to conduct party elections fairly or properly. The presence of ghost voters on electoral rolls and fake voting are common problems during party nominations.In these nominations, JP is likely to have the most transparent register of members among all parties.President Uhuru Kenyatta has told aspiring candidates, &lsquo;you are on your own.&rsquo; He is understood to have instructed party organs to enforce fairness.