The competition for Kericho governor has narrowed down to a three-horse race.The incumbent Paul Chepkwony will battle it out with two entrants &mdash; Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat and former National Social Security Fund managing trustee Richard Langat for the Jubilee Party ticket.Chepkwony is banking on his development scorecard and his now good relationship with Deputy President William Ruto for his reelection .He has delivered most of his 2013 election pledges, among them the building of roads in all the six subcounties.What is also likely to complicate things for the new comers is that he has won broad support, especially among the older generation, for his efforts to have tea farmers compensated by the British government for land they allegedly lost through forcible acquisition for tea plantations in the colonial era among other historical injustices.Apart from building numerous early education centres, Cheruiyot has also initiated farmer support projects such as free Artificial Insemination services as well as installation of cooler plants for milk farmers. Kericho is largely a farming county . CHEPKWONY IMPEACHMENTIn June 2014, Chepkwony survived impeachment after the Senate cleared him of all the charges made against him by the MCAs. They had accused him of gross violation of the Public Private Partnerships Act, 2013, gross violation of the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and County Governments Act. The Senate dismissed the accusations, saying they had not been substantiated as required by the law governing impeachment of governors. But Benjamin is promising heaven on earth, listing his development record as Ainamoi MP for two terms. He, also a close ally of the Deputy President, has accused Chepkwony also known as Timbilwet, of failing to use the county&rsquo;s resources effeciently.Being among the senior-most politicians from the county, the Ainamoi MP is also banking on his good network of influential businessmen, elders, professionals and the clergy to support his candidature.Richard, who is making his political debut in August, has promised to change how county affairs are managed. He argues that his expertise in finance management is what Kericho county needs to develop. He accuses Chepkwony of a dismal performance in the four years he has been in office .Political analyst and Maseno University lecturer Kimutai Soi says despite Chepkwony having performed well, he is likely to face stiff competition for the Jubilee ticket. The political and public administration lecturer says the governor&rsquo;s popularity in 2013 soared because he was among the witnesses of former radio broadcaster Joshua Sang and Deputy President William Ruto at the International Criminal Court. On Benjamin&rsquo;s chances of winning, Soi says he stands at zero as his support in Ainamoi is waning .&ldquo;Chepkwony will have to triple his energies if he wants to win. He has the wrong people as his political advisers. The ICC cases are now over. He also comes from the same constituency as Benjamin and they are likely to divide the votes during the Jubilee primaries,&rdquo; he said.In regards to Richard&rsquo;s candidature, Soi says he has a good chance if he plays his cards well. He has put up a good campaign team with competent campaigners. &ldquo;He comes from Buret subcounty, and is the only candidate from that area. Kipkelion East subcounty is also likely to support him,&rdquo; Soi says. SHARING OF SEATSKericho is a cosmopolitan county and a Jubilee stronghold. This means whoever clinches the Jubilee ticket will be halfway to the seat of governor. The six county seats &mdash; governor, deputy governor, senator, woman rep and assembly speaker &mdash; were shared among the six subcounties in 2013.Governor Chepkwony is from Ainamoi subcounty, Deputy Governor Susan Kikwai is from the larger Kipkelion (East and West), Senator Aaron Cheruiyot is from Belgut, while woman rep Hellen Chepkwony and county assembly speaker Japhet Mutai are both from Buret. Soin/Sigowet subcounty did not benefit. With the entry of Winny Keter,the wife of Energy CS Charles Keter, the political equation is expected to change.RACE FOR OTHER COUNTY SEATSWinny is eying the woman rep seat. She hails from Belgut constituency, Kabianga ward, the same home area as Senator Cheruiyot. If Winny clinches the Jubilee ticket in the nominations, chances of Cheruiyot seeking reelection will be slim and vice versa .Other bigwigs eying the Senate position include Franklin Bett who once served as State House Comptroller between 1994-96 and was Kenya&rsquo;s High Commissioner to Australia.He was a two term MP &mdash; one as a nominated member and the second term as Bureti MP. He also served as a Roads minister in the Grand Coalition government between 2009-13. Bett has since defected to JP from ODM.Former National Housing Corporation chairman Sammy Chepkwony, famously known as Motiriot, is also among the top candidates for the Senate seat. He was a 2013 hopeful for governor but lost in the primaries to Chepkwony. He also lost to Cheruyiot during JAP nomination for the Senate by-elections in March last year. He is considered a Jubilee favourite, having stuck with the party since his 2013 loss. He hails from Kipkelion. Kanu on the other hand is likely to retain Paul Sang as its Senate candidate. Sang lost to Cheruyiot last year.Former ODM executive director Magerer Lang&rsquo;at is making a come back and is eying to unseat Kipkelion West MP Jackson Rop. Magerer entered the national political arena in 2007 after beating the then Kipkelion MP Sammy Ruto at the ODM primaries. He served as Energy assistant minister in 2010 after the suspension of the current Energy CS.He also unsuccessfully attempted to succeed Keter during the by-elections.