Yet millions of people die from drought, not because it is ordained to be so by God, but because of bad leaders that do not know how to save people from lack of rain and water. When the pharaoh of Egypt dreamt of seven fat cows being eaten by seven lean cows, a prisoner called Joseph interpreted King&rsquo;s nightmare to mean that there would be seven years of rich harvests that would be eaten up by another seven years of severe drought and starvation that would kill millions of people unless vagaries of drought were properly countered. When the King listened to Joseph, whom he appointed as the minister of agriculture, rich harvests were preserved to save the country from the starvation of drought. Today, kings do not need dreams to know when drought and starvation are coming. Internal and external meteorologists will read data and information from satellite weather stations to know when drought is likely and consequently plan how to save the country from possible starvation. Such plans to save country from drought would include, storing and preserving food from areas with rich harvests. Government would subsequently ban business people from buying maize and wheat cheaply from the state and export them expensively for profit. Fortunately President Uhuru has already banned exports of maize abroad. And if there is still a shortage between food that is stored and food that is needed, government would import maize from abroad to ensure internal supplies of food are adequate. But to ensure there is enough money to import adequate maize, government would need to save money by reducing internal consumption of luxury foods that rich citizens should be encouraged to avoid when their fellow citizens are dying of starvation elsewhere. After all, when you have plenty to eat, don&rsquo;t display your full stomach. Prices of essential foods should also be controlled and kept at affordable levels otherwise high prices of food will create and exacerbate artificial drought in the poor and slum areas of the country. If drought is not in the whole country and there are good harvests in some areas, government should buy and transport surplus food to starving drought stricken areas. To increase our capacity to grow food, all areas of good rain, should be bought by government and distributed to Kenyans who have neither work nor land to grow food. With knowledge of coming drought, it is criminal to have areas that are not cultivated or irrigated with maize and other food crops. But if measures to end hunger during drought were understood more than 2000 years, how come a country like Kenya takes so long to implement them? Drought and starvation are not problems of the rich and leaders but of the poor and the marginalized in dry areas. Indeed, it is because neither the rich, leaders nor their children face drought and starvation that we have not seen leaders sparing time to go to drought stricken areas to empathize or reassure the starving that they are neither alone nor forgotten. It is indeed scandalous to see both government and opposition leaders crisscrossing the entire length and breath of the country begging people to register as voters and vote for them come elections in August, which is in itself not evil but sparing not even an hour to visit with starving folks who are facing imminent death from drought. The hungry of Kenya require more solidarity from their leaders than they are now getting. It is impossible to believe that leaders cannot deal with the crisis of life threatening drought and starvation with equal concern they are dealing with the apathy of many citizens that are not registering as voters and whose lack of votes will disqualify them from voting them back to power. From leaders&rsquo; less than full concern to deal with drought and starvation, one must believe the poor and marginalized are the only ones who may have adequate interest to resolve the crisis of drought and starvation. Contradictory as it may seem, victims of drought and starvation and those citizens that sympathize with them, must if they can, register as voters and come out strongly to vote for those leaders who have the ideological capacity to eradicate the vagaries of drought once and for all.