Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed has made major changes in her ministry, days before she faces an African Union vote on her future. Mohamed posted a record 118 staff to embassies abroad in what may be her last major assignment if she gets the job as chair of the AU Commission secretariat. The cadre of staff posted ranged from ministers, who are the senior most diplomats after deputy ambassadors in any Kenyan mission, to attaches, who are considered junior. Among those moved include the late Vice President Kijana Wamalwa’s widow Yvonne, who has been posted to Dar es Salaam as the minister. Yvonne has been serving as a senior officer in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Nairobi headquarters. Others who were moved include Lawrence Waweru who will be the Minister in Gaborone, Botswana, Joshua Mugondo, Minister Counsellor 1 in Abuja, Nigeria, and Washington Oloo, who would be Minister Counsellor 1 in Beijing, China. Others are Rosemary Owino who was posted to Kenya’s Mission to the UN office in New York as Counsellor 1 alongside Joseph Masila in the same station as Minister-Counsellor II. In the memo dated January 20 and sent to all heads of missions as well as ministry directorates, Mohamed said the officers should report to their new duty stations by March 1. “The officers will serve strictly for a maximum term of 48 months. The 48 months will also include the period already served on cross transfers from one mission to another,” Mohamed said in the memo. “You are reminded that foreign service is a temporary assignment with specific time-bound responsibilities and duties. The tour can therefore be varied depending on performance, demands of duty and prevailing service regulations such as the retirement age while on posting or indiscipline.” Tens of Kenyan missions abroad have no substantive ambassadors or consuls and there is speculation President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have failed to agree on the lists. In many embassies, ambassadors have stayed beyond term limits.