Her mother was on the receiving end of umprintable insults from male aspirants while contesting for Kilungu civic seat in Makueni in the late 1980s.And that is when Adelina Mwau started wishing to hold a position of power to change the political environment for women. &ldquo;My mother&rsquo;s competitors used obscene language against her to; ridicule, demoralize and scuttle her campaign. They told the electorate that she was likely to go back to her parents with their seat,&rdquo; Mwau said.&ldquo;I hated that disgusting language. It challenged me into getting to a position where I could start challenging the myths that people were perpetuating against women during my mother&rsquo;s campaign.&rdquo; But the Makueni deputy governor was a greenhorn in politics having had started teaching in a primary school after graduating from Machakos Teachers Training college with a P1 certificate.Therefore the idea of contesting for that position lingered into her mind for years until 1997, when she vied for the Kilome parliamentary seat.Mwau had by then done a Masters degree in gender issues and development where she was introduced to feminist theories and ways of feminism.&ldquo;I was also going through the history of the women&rsquo;s movement in the Western world and compared it with women&rsquo;s movements in Kenya and that radicalised me as a woman. I started asking hard questions about women and leadership and about women in positions of power,&rdquo; said Mwau who has set her eyes on Makueni senate seat in 2022.Mwau had also joined civil society forces emerging among the fierce critics of retired president Daniel Moi and the KANU regime.This activism enabled her rub shoulders with the then powerful women including Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, Wanjiru Kabira, Phoebe Asiyo and former Lands cabinet secretary Charity Ngilu.Mwau was also in Ngilu&rsquo;s campaign team for the Kitui Central parliamentary seat that enabled her trounce the incumbent George Ndoto in 1992 &ldquo;I joined politics during Moi&rsquo;s time challenging a man he trusted. Being single, young and with no money was not easy for me,&rdquo; she recalled. She garnered 9, 000 votes losing to Ndambuki who bagged 11, 000 votes. But she was then nominated to parliament by Narc in 2003 to 2007.Kibwana and Mwau would later team up in 2012 where they campaigned for governor and deputy governor clinching the office against Philip Kaloki of the influential Wiper Democratic Movement, in the highly contested polls. C.VAugust 1,1952: Born in Nunguni, Makueni County1972 &ndash; 1974: Machakos Teachers Training College Primary One Teacher Training Certificate. 1974 &ndash; 1982-Teachers Service Commission, teacher Thomeandu Boys Primary School.1978 &ndash; 1982 National Adult Education Consultant with Catholic Dioceses of Kenya 1988 &ndash; 1994: Gender Programme Officer, Oxfam Kenya1997 &ndash; 2003: Executive Director-Gender, Governance and Development Consultant, WRC Development Institute, Nairobi &ndash; Kenya.2003 &ndash; 2007: Nominated Member of Parliament.2004 &ndash; 2005: Member of Public Accounts Committee, 9th parliament.2005 &ndash; 2007: Assistant Minister &ndash; Ministry of Labour &amp;Human Resource Development.2013: Deputy Governor &ndash; Makueni CountyQuotes&ldquo;The Kenyan women are also experiencing a new dawn and a new beginning. The new beginning is that we have seen women appointed to positions of power, like in police force where a woman is the second in command and we have also seen a woman appointed commissioner of lands. I know this is not the end but the beginning,&rdquo; &ldquo;A nominated MP should have a national outlook and identify a constituency and issues she can address. There must be something you have contributed to in your area of expertise, be it the gender platform, youth or trade unionism,&rdquo; &ldquo;It is important that the Ministry finds out what is happening at the district and divisional levels. I want to talk about the water policy with regard to water harvesting at all levels. This is also done through collection of water from house roofs when it is raining. This water is sometimes left to flow to Lake Victoria leaving us with no water at all,&rdquo;