Just what informed the withdrawal of the police bodyguards attached to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi? Though the withdrawal has been blamed on their perceived political positions and the recent remarks against the Jubilee administration, this may not be the real reason at all - at least according to insiders at Vigilance House (National Police Service HQ). Corridors has it that the authorities took the decision because the security officers withdrawn have not been giving NIS enough information on the two governors to make proper decisions, including preemptive actions. For instance, President Uhuru Kenyatta did not expect to be told off by Governor Joho over the particular project he was inaugurating in Mombasa last week, and the reaction generated from the crowd. The trick was therefore to create a crisis by recalling the bodyguards and have others who are willing to play ball replace them. *****An administrator in Nambale, Busia county, is a man under siege after residents demanded the production of a young man arrested on his instructions only to disappear without trace. Word has it that the administrator, who is linked to the the dispossession of many families who have lost their land, has a gang of criminals who do his bidding whenever his victims protest. He has now sent his cronies into hiding after residents threatened to take the law into their own hands. Despite repeated complaints to police and his seniors, no action has been taken against him and he continues terrorizing his &ldquo;subjects&rdquo;. *****Two Mt Kenya Jubilee MPs are a worried lot. Reason? They are worried about the growing influence of some candidates eying the Nairobi woman representative position. Word has it that they singled out the influence aspirant Millicent Omanga is wielding to clinch the seat in August against other aspirants from their own tribe. It is said one legislator faulted her colleague for trying to oppose Omanga&rsquo;s candidature on the Jubilee ticket because she does not hail from Mt Kenya. The MP even criticized her for maligning Omanga with all sorts of allegations to ensure she does not get the ticket in the nominations. It is said the MP told her they would better support Omanga for Jubilee to secure the seat than back &ldquo;our own&rdquo; to lose - and then Cord wins almost all three key Nairobi county seats. *****Who is advising the State on how to deal with fiery Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi? Well, some Jubilee leaders were heard whispering that the apparent crackdown on the two leaders is counterproductive for President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s charm offensive at the Coast.