The Luo community in Mombasa has met Cord leader Raila Odinga and expressed frustration over what they called mistreatment, exclusion and and sidelining by Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s government.The meeting on Tuesday evening came a week after three MCAs from the community and another two were expelled from county assembly committees for allegedly being disloyal.Deputy speaker Rashid Mswabaha said ODM reached the agreement, saying the five are rebel MCAs and have been questioning Joho&rsquo;s leadership and county laws.Raila met the community members in Jubilee Hall. They included MCAs, the Luo Council of Elders, business people and professionals. The sessionwas organised by outgoing Mombasa Luo elders chairman Obara Kings and his successor Manoah Obat. The community said it deserves a bigger stake in county government because members overwhelmingly voted for Joho in 2013. &ldquo;We had an agreement that we would have a big stake in government because of our vote strength,&rdquo; Mikindani MCA Duncan Onyango said.In 2013, the Luo community in Mombasa commanded 59,018 votes, second only to the Mijikenda community, which had 130,484 votes.The majority of these live in Likoni, Nyali and Jomvu constituencies, where their vote bloc virtually guarantees their candidate will win.About 95 per cent of Luos voted for Joho, ODM&rsquo;s deputy leader. They say they were rewarded with plum county jobs, which were later taken away. But those still supporting Joho dismissed this, saying the governor has been loyal to the Luos. They told Raila those complaining are interested in personal gain, not the community&rsquo;s best interests. &ldquo;Joho has stood by us through thick and thin,&rdquo; said a supporter identified as Rambo.However, Onyango cited members of the community who he said were hounded out of office.&ldquo;Tubmun Otieno, Thaddeus Rajwayi, Joab Tumbo, Alome Achayo, Christine Atego, Walter Oselu, Martin Odhiambo, Charles Suji, among others, were all sacked for no good reason,&rdquo; he said.Otieno was the county assembly clerk. He was replaced by Salim Juma. Rajwayi is the assembly speaker. He was hounded out of his office but got a reprieve after he rushed to court. Rajwayi has, however, not been active in his duties. Deputy speaker Rashid Mswabaha does much of the work.Achayo was the Mombasa Water and Sanitation Company MD. He was replaced by Rajab Kombo in 2014. Kombo was later replaced by Peter Kimathi. Atego was head of procurement, Odhiambo the chief valuer, Suji the planning director, while Oselu was the chief finance officer. Onyango said others axed from since 2014 are Meshack otieno, James Sadimba and Zablon Okeyo.Onyango said the community is now divided into three groups supporting Joho, and governor hopefuls Hezron Awiti (Nyali MP) and Hassan Omar (Senator).They assured Raila of their support for the presidency but said they will not be forced into voting for governor, senator, MP and MCAs.Raila urged the community to remain focused on registering as voters and removing Jubilee on August 8. Minor disagreements should be resolved amicably, he said.&ldquo;The Swahili say the fight of grasshoppers is the joy of the crow,&rdquo; Raila said as he urged the community to remain united. &ldquo;Unity is strength. The Luo community has been united for more than 100 years. It is not only the Luo who are tired. All Kenyans countrywide are tired.&rdquo;He said Cord is a big homestead with small houses in it called ODM, Wiper and Ford Kenya. &ldquo;In the homestead, children from different houses play together in the compound but in the evening they all go back to their different houses,&rdquo; Raila said.Reacting to the allegations, county director of communications Richard Chacha yesterday said the county has no policy to sideline anyone and everyone has been given equal opportunity based on merit. &ldquo;The Luo are big stakeholders in this county. They have been with us and we carry them along as we move on,&rdquo; he said.Chacha said the removal of the MCAs was not a county affair.He said the governor&rsquo;s office is open to all residents and ready to solve their grievances.