Swansea Vs Arsenal, Today 6pm,My Prediction: Swans ..1 Gunners...3The reverse of this fixture was fiery and the same is expected this time round, particularly because the Swans find themselves in the relegation zone and we&rsquo;re into the second half of the season. The first leg saw Granit Xhaka get a red card with 20 minutes still to play. The final score was 3-2 in favour of the Gunners with Theo Walcott starring with two goals on the day. But conceding two was a worry as it exposed our leaky defence. But even though Swansea need to work to survive the drop, Arsenal know that we can&rsquo;t lose pace with the top four teams. League leaders Chelsea are 8 points ahead of us but just one point separates us with Man City and Tottenham who sit in 4th and 3rd respectively. If we lose today, we might as well forget about the title this term. But Arsene Wenger has a good side and great players to choose from. Not only do we have fully fit players, we saw moments of brilliance from the returning Danny Welbeck in our FA Cup outing last weekend even though his appearance was short. This game shouldn&rsquo;t trouble us if we are focused.Leicester City Vs Chelsea, Today 830pm,My Prediction: Leicester...1 Blues....1Defending Champions versus the league leaders or rather Claudio Raniera versus his old club. This should be very interesting! Last season, Ranieri got one over his old side by beating Chelsea 2-1 in the first leg of the 2015/16 season while the second leg match ended in a draw. But this season has been different with Antonio Conte breathing new life into a talented Blues outfit. Leicester stood no chance against the Blues at Stamford Bridge but Ranieri is fired up to fight back. Things haven&rsquo;t been going his way this term and it has a lot to do with losing Ngolo Kante to Chelsea of all sides. The Leicester midfield is confused while the stress on the front line is evident. Jamie Vardy&rsquo;s recent red card was a result of a player, who is frustrated that things aren&rsquo;t going as smooth as they did last term. On the flip side, while the Blues have conceded two goals in each of their last two league matches, their attack is unrivalled. With Diego Costa on fire and literally all attacking players in good form, they are proving difficult to beat. But I must say Tottenham taught them a lesson in their last outing and proved that they are beatable. This is going to be a tough one but I think Ranieri can come out with a draw particularly with the amazing Leicester fans behind him.Man United Vs Liverpool, Tomorrow 7pm,My Prediction: Red Devils....2 Reds....2I have an opportunity here to boast and so I shall. I watched the reverse of this fixture live at Anfield courtesy of Guinness. I got a VIP experience, business class flight and top class hotel accommodation not to mention I spent time in the Bill Shankly suite at Anfield&rsquo;s VIP section. And then I watched the more boring game on the planet. Haha&hellip; If Liverpool fans weren&rsquo;t so entertaining, then it would have been a frustrating day out, thanks to Jose Mourinho. He came into the game ready to defend and leave with a point. I have never seen Man United park a buss so well. Infact City Hopper should have hired Mourinho after that weekend as he could have taught their drivers a lot. With attacking players like Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Wayne Rooney, it is so frustrating when the Portuguese tactician insists on a defensive match. Anyway, he was having a bad time at United and couldn&rsquo;t afford to open up the game and allow Liverpool to score so I guess he got what he wanted. But Jurgen Klopp isn&rsquo;t the type of manager to go to Old Trafford with the same thoughts in mind. The Reds will attack in this game as they need three points to stay as close as possible to Chelsea. I foresee many goals but given the bragging rights that are at stake, I see them stay neck and neck.