Campaigns for most, if not all, elective posts in Murang&rsquo;a are expected to be intensive ahead of the August polls.The most competitive one is the race for governor, pitting the incumbent Mwangi Wairia against Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau. So bitter is the rivalry between the two that Wairia dumped 110 tonnes of manure across three venues - Murang'a University Grounds, Ihura Stadium and Mumbi Grounds, where Kamau was due to launch his manifesto in November last year.Nevertheless, the event went on with five of the eight MPs in the county, including Senator Kembi Gitura attending, and pledged to support him. Wairia is deputised by Gakure Monyo.Apart from Kamau, the other MPs are Humphrey Njuguna (Gatanga), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Tiras Ngahu (Kangema), Sabina Chege (Woman Rep), Irungu Kang&rsquo;ata (Kiharu), Peter Mwangi (Maragua) and Clement Wambugu (Mathioya).It is the home county of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Although Jomo Kenyatta was from Kiambu, it is the people of Murang&rsquo;a who gave him an opportunity to get to Parliament. The then MP for Kigumo, Kariuki Njiiri, resigned to give way for him. ASPIRANTSIn total, the governor seat has attracted three hopefuls. Wairia was managing director New Kenya Co-operative Creameries before he ran for office in 2013. A two-term Kigumo MP, Kamau is seen as the biggest threat to Wairia&rsquo;s reelection.The 2013 polls runner-up in the governor race, Dr Moses Mwangi, is the newest entrant also seeking to unseat the incumbent. He is currently the CEO Equatorial Nut Processors. Dr Mwangi is, however, said to have joined the race too late because Kamau and Wairia have been on the &lsquo;campaign trail&rsquo; for close to two years now.Kamau and Wairia are keen on being governor after 2017 to ensure they have bargaining power with the end of President Uhuru&rsquo;s tenure, should he be reelected this year. THE AGENDAAccording to their manifestos, the aspirants are keen to restore Murang&rsquo;a&rsquo;s lost glory in the economy, education and social sectors.The county&rsquo;s economy is rooted in agriculture.&ldquo;I only have ideological differences with the governor. My candidacy is to spread my leadership skills across the county and get the priorities right,&rdquo; says Jamleck. He is said to be close to President Uhuru.Farming is practised on small landholdings. Over 60 per cent of small-scale farmers grow cash crops such as tea and coffee. Residents also engage in small-scale livestock keeping.There are six tea factories &mdash; Githambo, Gatunguru, Kanyenya-ini and Kiru. The coffee factories in the area are Kanyenyaini, Mihuti, Gathima and Kiharu among others. Residents also farm macadamia and the main farms are Farmnut Macadamia in Murang&rsquo;a and Maragua town.Dairy farming is popular, with milk-processing plants situated across various towns. The governor has been credited with boosting farmers&rsquo; incomes in milk sales.Wairia, an ally of Deputy President William Ruto, has also gravelled most rural roads in the county.&ldquo;All our wards, villages must be accessible, this is key for our people both economically and even socially. The needs of the people should be met,&rdquo; Wairia says.He was, however, impeached for alleged misappropriation of county funds. The Senate did not approve the impeachment, saying the accusations did not meet the threshold.Kamau on the other hand is credited with boosting education standards in his constituency. It has been the best performing for the past two years in a row.&ldquo;In the past few years, Kigumo results have helped boost our county average score. These are some of the things we want our people to enjoy,&rdquo; Jamleck says.The MP, who also served as Nairobi Metropolitan minister in President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s government, is also credited for installing surveillance cameras in the city. SENATE RACEThere are also three contestants in the Senate race. These are the incumbent Gitura, Kiharu MP Kang&rsquo;ata and Peter Njangi. Gitura, a lawyer and former ambassador to Belgium and European Union, has previously served as Kiharu MP and is largely credited with exposing a number of misuse of funds cases in Wairia&rsquo;s administration. He is currently the deputy speaker in the Senate. Gitura has previously served as assistant Minister for Agriculture in 2006 and assistant Minister for Foreign Affairs between 2006-07. He was opposed to Northern Water Collector Tunnel, which raised a political storm in the county last year.Kang&rsquo;ata, a lawyer by profession, is credited with changing the lives of his constituents and was in 2015 awarded by the Central Kenya Forum for Peace for best management of CDF and investing in water projects. He is strongly opposed to the LGBT community rights. He was recently featured as one of the MPs in the country who lead a modest lifestyle. Kang&rsquo;ata personally runs most of his errands and owns modest resources, which he says that are &ldquo;resources he obtained when he worked as a lawyer, and purely as back-up contingency assets for my family.&rdquo;&ldquo;You should always be wary of people who give too much. It should raise your eyebrows that they may be stealing to sustain their giving habits. But I do not advocate leaders be selfish,&rdquo; Kang&rsquo;ata says.His projects in Kiharu include provision of water to residents and bringing health services closer to the people through medical camps across the constituency from CDF, his finances and donations. He has also tarmacked close to 60km of roads in the area. Njangi is a former Principal of Njiris High School.The Woman Rep race is also competitive having attracted three aspirants to dislodge incumbent Sabina Chege. These are Irene Njeri, radio presenter and TV host Waithira Muithirania and Catherine Munyiri, popularly known as Mama Sacco.In all the constituencies, about 50 aspirants have declared their interest.