The meeting of Nairobi aspirants at Deputy President William Ruto’s residence this week revealed the mischief of one of the city’s female politicians. She had collected money from one of the aspirants for governor with the promise that she would deliver the party nomination. She then called several other governor aspirants to say President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed that they step down from the race in favour of her benefactor. However, things turned against her when the DP told the aspirants that he and the President have no preferred candidates and all seats are open for competition. “There is nothing like that”, the DP said when asked about the directive for some to step down. ***** Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar’s prolonged attacks and supporting the withdrawal of Governor Ali Joho’s security detail are upsetting ODM MPs in the county. Our mole tells Corridors some ODM legislators are questioning Omar’s political stand ahead of the August polls and even term him a “Jubilee mole” celebrating the intrigues against Joho. It is said the MPs are plotting to approach their party leader Raila Odinga and Joho to field their own strong Senate aspirant to end Omar’s political career. The MPs were heard saying Omar should perform his key oversight role on county spending, not celebrate when the national government uses its machine to oppress Joho. ***** Three powerful individuals are behind the grabbing of prime land whose leases started expiring in 2009 in Parklands and nearby areas. The trio, who include a top government official, a top Nairobi county official and a top National Lands Commission official, have conspired to dispossess landowners whose leases have expired and allocate land to themselves and their cronies. Most victims are of Asian origin and have been intimidated into silence as the plunder continues. While the colonial administration gave permanent leases to areas inhabited by Whites, including Lavington, Kileleshwa and Loresho, Asian-inhabited areas were awarded 99-year leaseholds. ***** Word has it that a controversial news anchor at a leading local TV station has left many wondering where she got the fortune to acquire a state-of-the-art salon along Lenana Road for Sh20 million. The anchor, rumoured to be close to a vocal politician, is said to have poached the best hairdressers in top salons. She also bought each of the hairdressers a car, an offer that cannot be countered by her rivals. Some of her customers and rivals in the beauty industry were overheard questioning the source of the money. It’s just a matter of time before the taxman comes knocking.