Keep your guards, I do not need them, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho yesterday told the state, adding that he is not afraid of death.&ldquo;As a Muslim, if I die at noon, I will be buried by 1pm, but my standing and ideas will remain,&rdquo; he said.Joho drove himself to the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, for an opposition meeting. He said he will no longer use police officers seconded to him by the national government.On Saturday the state withdrew Joho&rsquo;s bodyguards after he criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta last week for taking credit for county and donor-funded projects.On Tuesday the state backed down and reinstated his bodyguards. Police explained that they were moved in a routine organisation.Why the heavy security? Four hours before Joho addressed reporters, Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa criticised him for having heavily armed private guards.Addressing the press in Mombasa, Marwa said Joho is not special and he will only be allowed five bodyguards like other governors. He said the state has started a crackdown to seize all illegally acquired guns.Without mentioning names, Marwa said the state will revoke licences of those misusing weapons to protect their &ldquo;illicit drug empire&rdquo;. He asked why some people are heavily protected.On Tuesday Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said Joho is &ldquo;literally walking around with a police station and armoury judging by the number of firearms and bullets in his escort&rdquo;.He said 35 of Joho&rsquo;s guards have at least two guns and 15 bullets each, and can bring down even the Deputy President&rsquo;s entourage.Marwa said most of the private guards were dismissed from the military and are masquerading as inspectorate officers.&ldquo;Such officers are not on the payroll and it is difficult to trace any form of transaction they have with the county,&rdquo; he said. Marwa said intelligence reports indicate the private security detail attached to a certain politician are guarding narcotics.Protecting drugs? He said the clique facilitated the air travel of an Ivorian woman arrested at the Moi International Airport on Saturday with 10kg of heroine. &ldquo;Are you protecting heroin and cocaine? If you are not dealing with drugs why are you worried?&rdquo; Marwa asked.Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and speaker Jimmy Kahindi&rsquo;s security was also withdrawn. Kingi attacked Jubilee over coastal projects.Speaking at Bomas, Joho took a swipe at the Jubilee administration, claiming it has been stealing from Kenyans. &ldquo;Nimechoka kuibiwa na serikali ya Jubilee hadi mchana. Mwizi ni Mwizi na hana jina lingine [I&rsquo;m tired of being robbed by the Jubilee administration. A thief is a thief],&rdquo; he said.Joho said he will not apologise for his remarks that Uhuru has been launching projects initiated by the previous regime.He said the Mombasa Storm Water Drainage Improvement Project Phase 2 in Bamburi, which Uhuru commissioned last Thursday, was launched by Raila Odinga when he was the Prime Minister.Joho told Jubilee leaders to pont out the projects initiated during Uhuru&rsquo;s tenure. On Sunday State House listed billions of shillings of projects it initiated in Coast counties over four years.Mombasa director of communication Richard Chacha called Omar a Jubilee mouthpiece and dismissed the excess weapons claim.&nbsp;