Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet (pictured) seems to be living in a world of his own - convinced his police force is spotless and to be defended at all costs. Corridors wonders why Boinnet is yet to discover that his boys in blue create artificial traffic jams on major highways in the city, including the Thika Superhighway, to inconvenience, harass and extort money from road users. Our mole tells Corridors the most notorious and rogue Traffic police officers engage in criminal acts every day during morning rush hour between Pangani and Guru Nanak. It is said a team of officers dressed both in Traffic police uniforms and civilian clothes stop vehicles, especially matatus, and order drivers into a waiting car without revealing any offence committed. Officers in civilian clothes are alleged to be Rhino Unit police.***** The activities of an office located on the 12th floor of the city&rsquo;s Bruce House building will soon be unmasked as the dealings continue to attract the interest of keen observers. However, Corridors is reliably informed that is the den where some big shots in the political, business and legal fraternity meet on selected evenings to craft shady dealings that involve millions of shillings. Corridors also has it that this is where plans are hatched to cleanse those linked to corruption activities in various government projects. Some of the key individuals who meet at the place include a prominent politician who is also a senator, an official in one of the constitutional commissions and a host of other individuals - among them foreigners. ***** So the war between ODM chairman John Mbadi and Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga is over? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that the two met in the presence of some ODM leaders and buried the hatchet. Anyanga, known for his generosity and strong financial war chest, has previously accused Mbadi of imposing some leaders on the people. Mbadi, the Suba MP, has denied the claims. Word has it that on Monday, a senator from Nyanza was heard saying the war is over and the focus will now be on making Raila Odinga President in 2017. Anyanga&rsquo;s wife is among a few women candidates gunning for the coveted governor position in Migori. ***** Membes of a civil society organisation linked to the disclosure that former EACC chairman Philip Kinisu&rsquo;s family company Esaki Ltd was a beneficiary of millions of shillings fraudulently paid by the NYS are drafting a petition to challenge the selection of a member of the IEBC. The activists claim the nominee reached out to them and offered a bribe for them to withdraw their petition against the former EACC chairman.