The Nairobi government failed to provide relevant information to enable a law firm associated with IEBC chairperson nominee Wafula Chebukati to file a defence in a suit in which taxpayers will have to pay Sh325 million.Court documents show Cootow and Associates Advocates representatives were present during every hearing and mention of the case. Judge Mary Gitumbi said the county failed to provide documents and information.Read: IEBC selection panel meets as integrity queries hit nomineesPresident Uhuru Kenyatta nominated Chebukati to head the IEBC on December 22 last year. The IEBC commissioner nominees are Consolata Nkatha, Boya Molu, Roselyne Kwamboka, Kibiwott Kurgat, Margaret Mwachanya and Abdi Guliye.Gitumbi said the county started investigations to find out who is &ldquo;concealing information with the aim of punishing the culprit&rdquo;. The law firm sent letters but they never reached the legal department.In a story the Star published on Tuesday, it was reported that the law firm was to blame for failing to defend the suit. The firm has stated that no complaint had been filed against it, nor is there a dispute for professional negligence against the firm at the Law Society of Kenya.In the case between Salima Enterprises against the Nairobi government, the court noted that Cootow filed a memo of appearance, but did not file any defence.A judgement was entered in default and matter set for formal proof. The county attempted to set aside the judgement, but the case was dismissed by Gitumbi. Although the judge expressed disappointment taxpayers were set to lose money, internal issues or problems cannot be used as an excuse to set aside the decision.Salima later went back to court and successfully obtained orders compelling the county to pay them Sh325 million, plus costs of Sh6.7 million and interest. City Hall has moved to the Court of Appeal to overturn the decision.It says it has a strong defence and sufficient documentary evidence to support its case.In a paid advert yesterday, the IEBC selection panel said it did not receive any memoranda against Chebukati, including from State agencies. &ldquo;The selection panel wishes to state that regarding Mr Wafula Chebukati, the only memorandum received was one recommending him for appointment. Chebukati was also cleared by by the various agencies in the reports received by the selection panel,&rdquo;the panel stated.