Seventeen Mombasa MCAs yesterday threatened to hold street demonstrations if the government does not reinstate Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s security detail in one week.Speaking at the county assembly, they said recalling their security is a scheme to further marginalise regions that oppose the ruling regime.The government withdrew bodyguards for Joho and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi at 2pm on Saturday, without a clear explanation. Both are outspoken ODM supporters and critics of Jubilee.Sources told the Star the withdrawal might be punishment because the two dressed down President Uhuru Kenyatta last week over projects he launched during his tour of the Coast. They said he was taking credit for their projects and those funded by the World Bank and other donors. It was a major embarrassment for Uhuru.Insiders at Vigilance House told the Star the recalled security officers failed to give NIS enough information on the governors&rsquo; plan to criticise the President. State House operatives were unable to take preemptive action.The trick was, therefore, to create a crisis by recalling the bodyguards and replace them with those willing to play ball, sources said.The MCAs issued the protest threat after it emerged Kilifi speaker Jimmy Kahindi&rsquo;s security was also withdrawn on Sunday evening. Kahindi said his security officer was called at 4pm, ordered to surrender his firearm at Malindi and await further orders.He said the officer was with him at his Mariakani home when he received the order. The MCAs said residents will join protests to express frustration over the continual undermining of their leaders by the Jubilee government.Meanwhile, Joho has directed county inspectorate officers not to leave the streets, following an order from the National Police Service. Nyali police station base commander told senior inspectorate officers it was a &ldquo;directive from above.&rdquo; Joho is still in Ghana, where he attended the swearing in of President Nana Akufo-Addo. He said the directive is politically instigated, following last week&rsquo;s spat with Uhuru. Some 105 inspectorate officers, who for years have controlled traffic, were withdrawn.Region marginalisedThe MCAs criticised the government for not bailing out ailing industries at the Coast, while dishing out billions of shillings to those in its strongholds.Led by majority leader Musa Mwidani, they said the state has failed to provide resources to the Coast and has jeopardised the security of two of its leaders. &ldquo;It is unacceptable and will not be condoned,&rdquo; he said.They said Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and Meru&rsquo;s Peter Munya still have their security, despite criticising the government. This proves the presidency has sinister plans against opposition leaders, especially in opposition strongholds, the MCAs said.However, Port Reitz MCA Fadhili Mwalimu dismissed claims the officers were withdrawn over their failure to spy. &ldquo;Joho and Kingi are being punished because of their political stand. That we know for a fact,&rdquo; he said. IG Joseph Boinnet says the withdrawal was purely coincidental and taken by the Coast regional commander. He said governors enjoy police protection based on existing policy, which most of them abide by.On Sunday State House denied the withdrawal was politically motivated. Spokesman Manoah Esipisu said it was part of the reorganisation of the regional command structure. He said reorganisations happen all the time countrywide and are routine.&ldquo;Local commands make local decisions. We must not always jump to the fact that this or that must have happened to make that happen,&rdquo; Esipisu said.