Though many are not ready to admit it or say it out loud, the Jubilee Party is actually facing a crisis in its backyards of Central and Rift Valley. Thanks to the new law that banned party hopping by losers in the primaries, the Jubilee Party is set to find itself between a rock and a hard place.The anti-party hopping Act means candidates who lose in the nominations will not have the option of moving to other parties and stand for election. This can spell disaster for Jubilee because the supporters of the candidates that lose will not feel compelled to vote on Election Day, consequently denying President Uhuru Kenyatta votes.This calls for JP to relook at its strategy for the presidential poll and find ways of incorporating everyone. The party may need to sit down with other parties in Central and Rift Valley that may accommodate candidates who feel they cannot compete fairly in the party&rsquo;s primaries.It may be prudent for Jubilee to start working with PNU, Kanu and Chama Cha Mashinani to ensure the presidential vote is secure, regardless of which party other supporters of Uhuru decide to vie on in 2017.In fact, this cooperation will not only help in the presidential vote but also ease the formation of a majority in Parliament after the election, in case the Jubilee Party does not get majority seats. The world over, presidents who have had a minority in parliament have always struggled to push through some of their policies and laws.Lack of a majority in Parliament can cripple the presidency, however popular it is. A stronger opposition makes it hard for the government MPs to deliver even on the best policies aimed for the benefit of the nation.One thing is clear. PNU, Kanu and CCM are not opposed to the Jubilee Party presidential candidate &mdash; President Uhuru Kenyatta. They just want to be respected as distinct parties that should be allowed to field their own candidates in positions other than the presidency, which they have no candidates for.If you look at Meru county, Peter Munya and Senator Kiraitu Murungi are all running for governor. If they both go for the JP nominations, there can only be one winner with the loser and his supporters feeling disenfranchised.Even looking at the 2013 general election, although the people of Nyeri county were fully behind President Uhuru, they made a different choice for governor by voting for Nderitu Gacagua, who was in GNU and not TNA. There are other examples in the Rift Valley where many supported TNA and URP at the top but gave other positions to Kanu candidates such as Baringo Senator Gideon Moi.As an incumbent, the President needs every vote from his support base and, therefore, the Jubilee Party should not treat Kanu, CCM and PNU as enemies but more as partners. Supporters of rival candidates among Jubilee, PNU, Kanu and CCM should feel that they are obligated to vote for Uhuru, even when they have a choice in other elective posts.Nominations are a tricky bit of any election for any political party and though Jubilee is focussed on a free and fair process, there will always be disgruntled aspirants and supporters.So to avoid the mechanical voter apathy that results from the nominations, I suggest that Jubilee, PNU, CCM and Kanu, which are all willing to support Uhuru, sit down together and work on how to secure a clear win for the President. The four parties can agree on competing against each other at the other levels and working together after the elections.