Britain has donated Sh1.5 billion to support IEBC operations.High Commissioner Nic Hailey yesterday said they are impressed with how the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has started the voter registration drive in most parts of the country.He said the support to the IEBC follows a request by the Kenyan government, adding that they will also support the civic education programmes through the IEBC.The envoy said Britain is interested in ensuring that the August 8 general election will be credible, free and fair. &ldquo;We are not playing Kenyans politics, but helping to build the capacity of the IEBC as it prepares for the election. It&rsquo;s exciting to witness Kenyans democracy in action and we are pleased with the progess,&rdquo; he said. Hailey also visited parts of the Rift Valley to assess voter registration and general preparedness for the election.Hundreds of people turned up at registration centres, as the one-month drive started. The turnout was higher in parts of Eldoret town.&ldquo;Many people are turning up, although we have a few hiccups, especially for those who want to change their polling stations. This is because they are being told to wait,&rdquo; Huruma MCA Peter Chomba said.He and Muslim Imams and Preachers chairman Abubakar Bini urged Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and register as voters.&ldquo;As Kenyans, we are used to complaining when things go wrong. This is the time to register so that we have an opportunity in August to elect the leaders we want,&rdquo; Bini said.Hailey visited the IEBC offices in Eldoret and separately met Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir, Governor Jackson Mandago and Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan.He later visited the MV Patel Hall, Eldoret, where the registration was going on. Hailey will later head to Kakamega and Kisumu counties for the same exercise. Supporters of the Jubilee Party and those of NASA say they have started mobilising residents to turn up and register.ANC official in the North Rift Cornelius Saina said they are educating the public on the importance of registering.Hassan said security has been increased in all areas and they are working with the IEBC to ensure that the registration goes on smoothly.&ldquo;Our aim is to ensure safety for all so that no one misses out to register as voter as we head for the elections,&rdquo; Hassan said. He said security will be increased during campaigns.