Five Kenyan champions Tapio Laukkanen, Baldev Singh Chager, Jassi Chatthe, Ian Duncan and Carl &ldquo;Flash&rdquo; Tundo are among the 36 drivers enlisted for this Saturday&rsquo;s season opening Mombasa Cement Rally.The foursome top the Premier class which is a composition of the fastest 11 drivers in the Kenya National Rally Championship.Duncan, who won the WRC Safari Rally in 1994, hopes to get back in the groove driving a Mitsubishi Evolution 10 and navigated by Anwar Slatch.The season opener will nevertheless be about catching the Flying Finn Tapio Laukkanen, who has proven a hard nut to crack over the past two seasons.Tapio, who is the defending KNRC title, returns to the coast with his championship winning Subaru Impreza GBB13 which is an R4.Others listed in the star-studded line-up include the reigning Group &lsquo;S&rsquo; champion Chandrakhant &lsquo;Chandu&rsquo; Devji who hopes to hit his stride on KNRC 1 as confirmations near 40. Kisumu-based Chandu will be back in his championship winning Subaru GC8. Sam Karangatha, one of the newest drivers currently, has entered a Subaru Leon in the 2WD category . He said: &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll be preparing our vehicle and we really hope to make it to the first round in Mombasa. We are definitely working towards it and If everything works out as planned, we plan to survive the demanding course.&rdquo;Outgoing Division Two champion Mahesh Halai of Shamba Boyz said: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a new season and going into Division 1 is a higher notch of competition. We hope to drive sensibly to avoid breaking the car and picking up punctures.&rdquo;Meanwhile, former world rally champion and reigning Safari Classic Rally winner, Stig Blomqvist, will return to Africa with Tuthill Porsche to defend his Safari crown in 2017. Starting in Mombasa, Kenya on November 23, Blomqvist will tackle the ten-day Safari Classic Rally on a new route covering thousands of kilometres in a classic Tuthill Porsche Safari car, built to the same specification as the one in which he claimed victory in 2015.&ldquo;When a former world champion endorses our team to supply a potential rally-winning car, that is always a very proud moment,&rdquo; said team principal, Richard Tuthill. &ldquo;East Africa remains an amazing place to compete and Safari still delivers the most challenging historic motorsport on offer. Nothing tests man or machine like this ten-day rally through the African bush. A hugely important factor is the enormously sociable atmosphere across the event. We adore this place and the people, and always want to do well in what has become our home away from home.&rdquo;Blomqvist echoed this sentiment, adding: &ldquo;I had thought that my first Safari win in 2015 would satisfy my hunger for historic rallying at the top level, but that is not how things have turned out. Classic Safari is still the best event of this kind and finally winning the rally has given me a new energy to keep going flat out. As long as I feel like that, why would I stop?&rdquo;Stig&rsquo;s co-driver is yet to be confirmed but WRC stalwart and Blomqvist&rsquo;s partner in 2015, St&eacute;phane Pr&eacute;vot, is top on the wish list. &ldquo;Stig and Stephane instantly clicked on the last Safari Classic,&rdquo; notes Richard. &ldquo;Their combined experience is pretty unique and, when added to their love of the Safari Rally, it&rsquo;s potentially unbeatable. It would be wonderful to reunite that partnership for this year&rsquo;s event.&rdquo;