Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba&rsquo;s political links with Deputy President William Ruto have landed him in trouble &ndash; Ford Kenya officials have suspended him.Khaemba may lose support from party leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula if the row is not resolved. The governor has rubbished the officials&rsquo; decision to suspend him.He says the party has structures and procedures to follow in case a member is to be kicked out. &ldquo;I am a faithful and loyal member of the party and its members should not think I am in office to serve them alone. As governor, I have to serve all the residents of Trans Nzoia county,&rdquo; Khaemba said.He was disowned by his party officials, who claimed he does not respect Wetang&rsquo;ula. They accuse him of having closer links with Ruto than with Wetang&rsquo;ula.But Khaemba says he only relates with the DP on official matters in their respective capacities, just like all the other governors.Two interim party officials, Edward Munabi and James Wambisi, said Khaemba has failed to adhere to the party policies and ideologies.They hit out at the county boss, accusing him of being inactive in the party, which sponsored him for election in 2013. NO TAKING CHANCES&ldquo;He has not been participating in party matters and has made very little contribution. We have allowed him to join any other movement as we head to the election because Ford Kenya will not take chances with him again,&rdquo; Munabi said.Wanabisi said Khaemba has refused to meet party members and listen to their issues, yet he gives priority to members of other parties in the same region.The row puts Khaemba in a complex situation as the August 8 election approaches. He faces stiff competition from within the party and Jubilee.Within Ford Kenya, secondary school principal Cosmas Nabungolo leads the pack of those who want to unseat the governor. From the Jubilee side, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and former United Nations employee Kakai Bisau are a serious threat to Khaemba&rsquo;s reelection. The governor has said he deserves to be reelected because of his work. He said he will defend his seat on the Ford Kenya ticket.