HAS one faction of the Jubilee brigade in the capital city struck a power-sharing deal among aspirants for various elective seats? Well, we are informed that the faction mainly being championed by Senator Mike Sonko and nominated MP Johnson Sakaja is towing on a proposal that the senator retains his seat while the former TNA chairman goes for governor with former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru as his running mate. Dagoretti MP Dennis Waweru, also in this faction, has been offered Speaker of the Nairobi County position while Rachel Shebesh has been asked to retain her woman rep position. Shebesh however was yesterday seen with the second faction that is now working round the clock to ensure former Presidential Candidate Peter Kenneth clinches the Jubilee ticket. The second faction enjoys the support of the majority of the city's Jubilee MPs.*****Is Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero set to overhaul his communication team? Well, anxiety has gripped City Hall following speculation that Kidero might send home his Director of Communication Walter Mong&rsquo;are, alias Nyambane, after alleged disagreements. It is reported that the former radio personality and comedian has had in-runs with his boss, following protracted differences that saw Nyambane sacked early last year before he was reinstated. Our mole alleges the Director carted away all communications equipment used for public address from City Hall to his home in a pick-up for unknown reasons. The disagreement between the two grows by the day. On Tuesday, Kidero did not have the equipment to address Mathare residents after an inferno and he had to shout extra loud to be heard during a construction project in Dagoretti.*****A wealthy aspirant linked to a senior Jubilee politician whose signature in land grabbing has startled the country is eyeing the Lang&rsquo;ata parliamentary seat. Critics have interpreted the political scheme to be a decoy by some powerful operatives to perpetuate the culture of land grabbing in the constituency. The declaration by the political appendage, whose decision for the political seat was neither independent nor personal motivation, has sparked fears among landowners. They fear that their plots will be illegally seized by powerful forces if the aspirant wins the seat. The residents allege the said aspirant has grabbed two public parcels of lands in the city and that his close ties with powerful individuals will ruin their future. The aspirant is loaded and remains influential in the government. The residents are now plotting to build a consensus among themselves to field a formidable candidate to challenge the broker.