Some MPs in Nyanza and Western plan to send governors home in the August 8 general election.Some MPs have declared their intention to unseat the governors, while others support their colleagues.MPs who have declared their intention to run for governor are Manson Nyamweya (Kisii), James Gesami (Nyamira), Nicholas Gumbo (Siaya), Wilbur Otichillo and Yusuf Chanzu (Vihiga) and Paul Otuoma (Busia).Senators who want to run for the county top seat are Boni Khalwale (Kakamega), James Orengo (Siaya), Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o (Kisumu) and Chris Obure (Kisii).Political analyst Edward Begi, however, said MPs may not have a big say on who becomes governor. &ldquo;About three-quarters of elected leaders are normally sent home during elections. During campaigns, they will retreat to their constituencies to seek votes,&rdquo; he told the Star yesterday.In Nyamira, MPs Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Charles Geni (North Mugirango) and Alice Chae (woman representative) support their West Mugirango counterpart Gesami in his bid to unseat Governor John Nyagarama.Gesami and Nyagarama will square it out in the ODM primaries.The MPs have accused Nyagarama&rsquo;s administration of corruption, nepotism and failing to implement &lsquo;meaningful&rsquo; development. But Nyagarama has termed the claims &ldquo;baseless&rdquo;.In Kisumu, MPs are divided between incumbent Governor Jack Ranguma and Nyong&rsquo;o.Nyando MP Fred Outa supports Nyong&rsquo;o. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo, however, said the Kano clan should not sacrifice the governor seat for the Senate seat. Kisumu East&rsquo;s Shakeel Shabbir has openly declared his support for Ranguma.In Kisii, most MPs allied to Jubilee support Obure. The senator ditched ODM for Jubilee and declared his intentions to run against Governor James Ongwae. Ongwae enjoys the support of nominated Senator Janet Ong&rsquo;era, woman representative Mary Otara and Ambassador Sam Ongeri.In Migori, Governor Okoth Obado enjoys the support of Jared K&rsquo;Opiyo (Awendo), John Kobado (Uriri), Joseph Ndiege (Suna West) and Kuria West&rsquo;s Robi. In Siaya, MPs, led by Gem&rsquo;s Jakoyo Midiwo, have opposed Governor Cornel Rasanga. Midiwo recently endorsed his Rarieda counterpart Nicholas Gumbo and businessman William Oduol, Rasanga&rsquo;s main opponents alongside Senator James Orengo. It is, however, unclear whether Orengo applied for governor nomination. Nominated MP Oburu Oginga supports Rasanga. In Kakamega, the only MP who opposes Wycliffe Oparanya is Washiali of Mumias East.Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti&rsquo;s reelection bid has drawn mixed reactions. Kabondo Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga opposes Awiti. But Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma and his Suba counterpart John Mbadi want Awiti reelected.