It was a very busy Christmas for our leaders with the general election fast approaching and the two leading political outfits jostling for power.In the Rift Valley, there was no respite in the continued multiplication of political rifts, thanks to politicians bent on cutting their nemeses to size at the ballot. So the cajoling went a notch higher as courtesy calls became the order of the day at the Sugoi home of Deputy President William Ruto.A keen eye could see the visits were not as innocent as they appeared to be. They had a political angle to it. Jubilee has lost considerable ground in the region since last year owing to cutthroat political competition. From Kajiado to West Pokot, the region is experiencing political disturbances of seismic proportions. The ground is forever shifting, leaving friend and foe perplexed.West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo knows he shouldn&rsquo;t be sitting on his laurels this year. He is fighting tooth and nail to deliver the vote to Kanu.The Jogoo party suffered political haemorrhage last year after some of its reliable politicians, including West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin, disembarked from the MV Kanu midstream and jumped ship to the Jubilee Party, each of them giving a wide range of excuses &mdash; typical of Kenyan politicians. Kachapin&rsquo;s claim that he ditched Kanu because it is &lsquo;a tribal outfit&rsquo; is ridiculous. The county boss is now stepping up sustained campaigns against his sponsoring party as he spews unbelievable accusations against it, whose ticket he sought by hook and crook in 2013.It is amazing how none of the defectors has ever confessed that they are changing parties because their bank balances have tripled after being bought to defect. As elected leaders continue to rock the boat from within, Lonyangapuo is no longer at ease. On January 1, he said he will soon be calling a meeting of the community to discuss its political future. He spoke at a football match event in Murkit Primary School in his county.The Professor of Mathematics is the only hope of Kanu in West Pokot. The rest of the politicians, who Kanu chairperson and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi financially sponsored, have become turncoats, and are now fighting to mute the Jogoo&rsquo;s crows in the county.West Pokot has four constituencies, two of which belong to URP. The other two are shared between Kanu and ANC.To Jubilee, West Pokot is almost a done deal. The problem now is Baringo county, where Kanu reigns supreme following defections by a number of MCAs. Residents are embracing the Mama na Baba party like never before, leaving a trail of broken hearts in Jubilee suitors.This is where DP Ruto&rsquo;s charm is needed. Throughout the Christmas and the New Year periods, he literally pitched tent in his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu, which is the modern day Kabarak, and received one large delegation after the other.A delegation from Baringo county was the first to arrive. Those privy to the meeting disclosed that the main agenda was how to dislodge Senator Moi. The Kanu chairman and DP Ruto have been fighting for political supremacy in the region for the better part of last year, with Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto throwing a spanner in the works making the DP lose sleep over his slipping stranglehold of the region.The man anointed in Sugoi to cut Moi down to size is one Simon Chelugui. The former director of the CDF Board has been angling to vie for Bomet governor but after the Sugoi meeting, his political ambitions changed. A section of Baringo residents are up in arms following these developments. They argue that they should be left to choose their leaders without nterference. Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi will face off with Stanley Kiptis among others. But who will grab JP&rsquo;s ticket?There are interesting times ahead in Baringo. The battle will be fierce but the war will be brutal. Who will be left standing?