A member of the US Army Honor Guard dramatically passed out and fell to the floor in front of Barack Obama during the president's farewell speech to the armed services. The guard member was pictured lying crumpled on the floor next to the feet his fellow service members in Arlington, Virginia on Wednesday. The guard is believed to have fainted as Obama addressed the armed services at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall where he was giving his final salute before he leaves office. It is not clear what happened to the guard.Obama had earlier thanked the military personnel for their service and sacrifice. He said there is "no greater privilege and no greater honor" than serving as commander in chief. "As I reflect on the challenges we have faced together and on those to come, I believe that one of the greatest tasks before our armed forces is to retain the high confidence that the American people rightly place in you," he said. "We must never hesitate to act when necessary to defend our nation, but we must also never rush into war because sending you into harm's way should be a last and not first resort." Obama also called for a smooth handover of control of the US military to incoming commander in chief Donald Trump. "We've got to make sure that during this transition period that there is a seamless passing of the baton, that there's continuity," the outgoing president said. Obama said it was critical to ensure that "we are doing everything we can to make sure that the next president will benefit from the same kinds of outstanding advice and service that these people around the table have provided me". He was also honored at the ceremony with the Medal of Distinguished Public Service for his eight years service as commander in chief. His comments come amid concerns in military and diplomatic circles about how Trump may handle national security challenges. Over the last few days, Trump has disputed the US intelligence community's assessments about Russian hacking, insisted without explanation that North Korea won't develop a nuclear weapon that could hit the US and questioned the worth of the United Nations. Obama pointed to a handful of conflicts that Trump will inherit when he takes office, including the fight against the Islamic State group in Syria and in the Iraqi city of Mosul.He also noted that the conflict in Afghanistan "is still active".