The reason I believe NASA will work is that we have seen the concept work before.You may recall the creation of the National Rainbow Coalition &ndash; NARC &ndash; wave back in 2002.This was the coming together of the Opposition parties of the day. And this is what we are working on now, in the knowledge that, once all the Opposition parties come together, they will carry with them a much larger part of the country than that which may be likely to vote for Jubilee.Indeed, once the Opposition is united, Jubilee has no chance at all.And that is why some people are trying to throw spanners in the works. They are hoping very much that Opposition unity will not happen. It is only to be expected, then, that they will disparage any efforts made to bring about Opposition unity.But the country is ready for change. Indeed, it has been ready for change for a long time now. Just look at the kind of corruption that has been going on: It is an unmitigated disaster.We are therefore getting together on tomorrow to work towards crafting a message that can resonate with the ordinary mwananchi &ndash; so that all Kenyans can see where their economic problems arise from.The cost of living has gone way beyond the reach of ordinary Kenyans. They cannot seem to pinpoint where the problem is: It is our responsibility as the Opposition to make it clear, where this problem emanates from.Unemployment is also going up, whereas if we had a growing economy, unemployment should be going down. People are languishing in the informal sector, and the government tries to argue that it is creating employment.This is nothing but propaganda. And, to give them their due, this is a government that is very good at propaganda. So, we need to explain the real state of affairs to the Kenyan voters.The government&rsquo;s claims the SGR is a major step forward for the nation, but it&rsquo;s actually the biggest rip-off. The Kibaki-Raila-Kalonzo coalition government tendered for this SGR at under Shs300 billion. The Jubilee government then came in, did away with the existing tender and then, using the very same company, they raised the price to Shs350 billion.To the Jubilee government all infrastructure development projects are just a conduit to &ldquo;kula nyama&rdquo;.