Spinner Jadavji &lsquo;Malindi&rsquo; picked up five wickets as Swamibapa skittled Ruaraka Sports Club for 30 runs in the ongoing 2017 NPCA Twenty20 tournament on Sunday.Chasing a daunting task of 205 runs to win, Ruaraka were all out for the lowest score in the event in 11 overs, thanks to Malindi&rsquo;s five-wickets haul and Emmanuel Bundi&rsquo;s four at Nairobi Jaffery. Hitesh Varsani was the only batsman in the Ruaraka team to have gotten into the double digits with 10 runs.The opening pair put on 11 runs and after Bundi broke the stand in the fourth over, it was walk in the park for the hosts. Bundi and &lsquo;Malindi ran through the batting order with no much sweat.None of the stands posted more than five runs. &lsquo;Malindi&rsquo; removed Varsani (10), Tushar Vagwani (0), Mehul Asani (2), Chandresh Hirani (1) and Rohit Halai (0) to end with 5 for 12 in four overs.Bundi went on to pick three more wickets to end with 4 for only eight runs. Meanwhile, Maurice Ouma and Alex Obanda played the innings of the day with a knock of 58 and 54 respectively. Saumil Patel (45) and Naman Patel (25) also contributed to the hosts&rsquo; healthy total. At Sikh Union, Stray Lions won their third straight match with a 36-run win over the hosts. Defending 194 for 3, left-arm spinner Shem Obado was the star for the league champions with a four-wicket haul as they bowled out for 158.Sikh Union opening pair of Nadeem Ahmed and Hamu Kayondo put on 47 in 4.4 overs before Jay Chandarana provided the breakthrough by removing Ahmed.Two balls later, the home team were two wickets down when Chandarana had Kayondo caught.Arthur Kyobe and Gurdeep Singh got them to 105 after 10 overs when Obado came into action removing Kyobe on 24 runs. He got his second wicket, probably the match winning breakthrough, when he had Gurdeep caught on four runs off half a century with the board on 120 after 12.2 overs.Obado got his third by bowling out Frank Nsubuga before Collins Obuya trapped Zaheed Abbas to leave the hosts on 145 for 6 after 15.4 overs.Stray Lions inning began on a sound note with openers Jay Mehta and Roger Mukasa putting on 66 in nine overs. Obuya emerged the top scorer of the inning with 80 off 33 balls which included three boundaries and same number of sixes.At Eastleigh High School, Rakep Patel scored half a century to lead Kanbis to a nine-wicket win over Gymkhana while Kongonis beat Cutchi Leva by seven wickets.