Democracy is like a baby, it doesn&rsquo;t just pop out on the blowing of a candle and making a wish with closed eyes. Conception has to happen between two consenting adults who share a common vision. Then there is the lengthy nine-month wait of uncertainties and finally the labour phase: The pain that paves way to so much gain. And just when you thought you are done, you learn you are just beginning the hard part of nurturing a baby to be a functional human being capable of making planet earth a better place.Back to the Jubilee Party grassroots elections, well played out in the theatre that is democracy. The push and pull, the war of wits and sometimes words, the fierce display of passion, the sacrifice of time, energy and resources can only mean one thing &mdash; love. That citizens of this great nation are so in love with their country, they are willing to do so much to see to it that its leadership is better defined. The struggle is symbolic of a &ldquo;coming to birth&rdquo; &mdash; as the legendary writer Marjorie Oludhe Macgoye would put it &mdash; of better days to come. True there was some physical tug of war, true there were accusations of unfairness of sorts, there were also allegations of multiple lists generated. We as a party take cognisance of the dynamics that shaped the grassroots elections and lessons learnt only help us grow to be better.We are proud that, finally, Kenyans have demystified the lie that politics is a reserve of the rich and famous, that through the Jubilee Party, women, people with disabilities, youth and minorities have been afforded a level playing field with veteran politicians and tycoons alike. Already, these special categories of people are paying only half of the requisite fee needed for registration as an aspirant. The grassroots elections were undisputed evidence that more Kenyans are not just aware of but are also very active in defending their political rights as provided for in both the country&rsquo;s and the party&rsquo;s constitutions.More importantly, the grassroots elections should be viewed as an honest manifestation of Jubilee Party&rsquo;s policy of non-interference. We as a party do not have &ldquo;favorable&rdquo; candidates neither during this exercise nor during the nominations to come. It is our continued advice to aspirants to sell their agendas and themselves best to the electorates and we shall respect the voice of the people.So to those who doubted President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s ability to conceive this party many years back, to those prophets of doom who anticipated a miscarriage and later on a stillbirth and to those still in doubt of the undoubtable, it is time to write a congratulatory card well coated with messages of encouragement and prayers for the continued prosperity of the new kid on the block &mdash; JP. Our will and desire to see a more prosperous and united Kenya is much stronger than the challenges we face or anticipate. I end with the Kiswahili words of wisdom, &ldquo;Chema cha jiuza kibaya cha jitembeza.&rdquo;