An outspoken opposition lawmaker is sorry for former ACK Archbishop Eliud Wabukala (pictured) for taking up the EACC chairman&rsquo;s job. The MP, also a member of the parliamentary committee that vetted Wabukala, is believed to have said the Archbishop&rsquo;s reputation will be soiled by some untouchable officers at the commission. The MP singled out a handful of people known to orchestrate the removal of chairpersons who don&rsquo;t &ldquo;cooperate&rdquo; in investigations and reports. The MP has told Wabukala to prepare for a rough time and even dismissal if he does not play ball with key opertives. The legislator said the much-trumpeted war on graft is just a circus and that the EACC is not keen to fight graft. Just who is this stalking Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli? Corridors is told that unfamiliar vehicles have been trailing the fiery trade unionist. It is said the vehicles are even parked just outside his Nairobi and Kakamega homes. Interestingly, this is happening just after Atwoli installed ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi as Luhya spokesman on December 31 in Kakamega. Whether those behind the scheme want to eliminate or silence him is for the police to investigate. Urgent action is needed. The government and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet must increase security for Atwoli because the lives of key personalities have been cut short after similar reports of intimidation. A section of Embakasi East residents are frustrated and took to social media to castigate one of the aspirants for the MP seat, Babu Owino. The UoN student leader posted, &ldquo;I will be the next Embakasi East MP by ballot or by bullet.Tibim!&rdquo; Some of them asked the police to probe Owino, whom they said is a firearms holder. They say he is dangerous and determined to remain unchallenged. Some brought up the unsolved murder of of ODM youth leader and aspirant last year. Owino&rsquo;s critics have posted that this is not the time to be bragging about bullets. Word has it that a land dispute in Karen, Nairobi, is intensifying to the point that UK High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey is getting involved. It is said a party involved in the protracted land tussle plans to file an application in court. This would demand the production of a member of family based in the UK to confirm the authenticity of a signature in dispute.The parties, therefore, want Hailey&rsquo;s office to help them trace the man, said to be a brother of the deceased previous owner, who can help resolve the issue.