Western leaders are divided over the value of Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s evangelising visits to the opposition zone.The DP has been marketing the Jubilee Party as he urges residents to register to vote.Some are resentful, saying his visits have no impact on established political allegiance and he should stay away.Others say he has the right to visit and talk to Kenyans anywhere.Ruto&rsquo;s tours of Bungoma and Trans- Nzoia early this week encountered resistance. He was heckled by supporters of the opposition&rsquo;s soon-to-be-launched National Super Alliance, NASA.In Bungoma, youth chanting NASA and Cord slogans barricaded the road to block the DP from addressing a rally at the bus park. This forced his entourage to change route. Ruto was again heckled a day later in Kiminini in Trans Nzoia after he tried to sell the Jubilee agenda during a voter registration rally. While Trans Nzoia is geographically in Rift Valley, its residents identify with Western as they are largely Luhyas.Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has said the DP does not seem to learn.&ldquo;Since I clashed with him in December 2015 and told him to stop using junior politicians to gain access to Western, he has continued to come to the region. This despite his visits having no impact,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;The advice that I gave him to engage senior politicians from the region &mdash; which he ignored &mdash; is what is now metamorphosing into the hostilities he is facing.&rdquo; Khalwale told the DP to leave the Luhya nation to its own leaders and stop wasting everyone&rsquo;s time.Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said the DP&rsquo;s efforts to convert the region to Jubilee have no impact because residents have made up their minds.&ldquo;Much as we respect him as a national leader, Trans Nzoia and Bungoma, which he visits, are areas solidly in opposition under Ford Kenya,&rdquo; he said.But Jubilee&rsquo;s pointman in Western and Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said the DP&rsquo;s visits are two-pronged.&ldquo;He comes here to push for registration at two levels. He is pushing for both registration of voters and Jubilee membership, because you only become useful to the party if you are a registered voter,&rdquo; he said yesterday.While in Mumias West on Monday, the DP urged more than 3,000 delegates to convince at least 10 people to register as voters and Jubilee members. Washiali said the Bungoma incident was caused by youth who had been left behind by the vehicles that ferried Jubilee delegates to Mumias.&ldquo;They were quarreling amongst themselves,&rdquo; he added. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe said the DP is within his constitutional rights to talk to people anywhere about national issues. &ldquo;When Ruto speaks in Mumias it does not mean he is addressing the Luhya, but the nation,&rdquo; he said.Mahiakalo MCA in Kakamega and Senate aspirant Cleophas Malala said the DP&rsquo;s visits are cosmetic.