Cord leader Raila Odinga begins his two-day tour of the Coast today, as part of his countrywide voter registration campaign.He is expected to land in Mombasa at 10am and head straight to Mtwapa, Kilifi county, where he will mobilise residents to register as voters. Raila will visit Mtomondia, Magarini, Malindi and Kaloleni. The schedule is, however, yet to be finalised.Raila will be in Mombasa tomorrow, before ending his tour in Kwale county. He has lately focused his Coast tours in Kilifi and Kwale counties, where his support base has been threatened by the defection Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro and Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya to the Jubilee Party.In December last year, the ODM leader toured Kilifi, where he distributed relief food to starving residents in Ganze, Kaloleni and Magarini.Nicholas Zani, ODM Coast regional coordinator and Kwale governor hopeful, told the Star Raila&rsquo;s mission is two-fold.&ldquo;Voter registration is the most important first. That&rsquo;s why he is coming to ensure many of our supporters register in numbers so large that rigging would be impossible,&rdquo; he said yesterday on the phone.Zani said Raila&rsquo;s focus after the registration will be voter turnout. On March 4, 2013, voter turnout in the Coastal counties averaged about 70 per cent, which was lower than 90 per cent in the Jubilee strongholds.game of numbersIn the last elections, Coast had 1,164,984 registered voters. Some 817,209 turned out on Election Day. The IEBC targets 573,227 more voters in the Coast in the current mass registration. Coast coordinator Albert Gogo yesterday told the Star the commission targets 343,569 from the South Coast and 229,658 from the North Coast. Cord has, however, set itself a target of 800,000 voters.&ldquo;We are putting in place measures to ensure we get about 25 per cent more voter turnout on August 8 than it was in 2013,&rdquo; Zani said.Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho are Raila&rsquo;s strongest allies. They have been giving Jubilee sleepless nights.Political analyst Mwakuja Mrombo from Mwatate, Taita Taveta county, says Raila&rsquo;s undoing at the Coast has been his inability to solve delicate matters regarding ODM candidates.For instance, in Kilifi, Raila has to deal with the growing rivalry between Malindi MP Willy Mtengo and his strong ally Aisha Jumwa, the county woman representative.Both are seeking the Malindi MP seat. The matter has created a wedge between the two.&ldquo;Raila&rsquo;s soft spot for particular candidates in some areas is what hurts his support base in some instances,&rdquo; Mrombo said.&ldquo;In Malindi, he seems to have left the matter to his point man Joho, who has [shown] preference to Jumwa. This in turn speaks volumes about Raila&rsquo;s preference.&rdquo;Observers say Joho has gained so much power in ODM that he is said to control the Coast ODM politics.&ldquo;There has been fear among aspirants that Joho has his preferred candidates and will pull the strings to ensure they win ODM nomination tickets,&rdquo; Mrombo said.Joho has, however, denied this, saying ODM primaries will be free and fair. His sentiments have been echoed by Raila on many occasions.In Taita Taveta county, Senator Dan Mwazo has drifted apart from the ODM leader, after sensing he prefers Governor John Mruttu.Land, which Raila has been riding on at the Coast, will feature prominently in his tours. Land disputes and bloody evictions continue to damage the government&rsquo;s image. &ldquo;Raila fought to ensure we got the new Constitution, which created the National Land Commission to address land matters. We now have an opportunity to solve our own land issues through the county governments. The ball is on the governors&rsquo; court,&rdquo; Zani said.