Another rhino has been killed at the Lake Nakuru National Park, after two others were killed on New Year&rsquo;s eve in Ngulia Rhino Sanctuary.The killing of a rhino in Lake Nakuru on Thursday, slaughter of two others in Ngulia Rhino Sanctuary-Tsavo West on December 31, points to the dispirited war on poaching, sources told the Star.The sources said there have been numerous attempts of poaching in Lake Nakuru National Park, Solio Ranch, and the Meru National Park, with the latest attempts recorded last week in Ruma National Park, Homa Bay.&ldquo;If nothing radical is done, to change how the KWS is being managed, we are at risk of losing all our gem. This Nakuru incident is just a tip of the iceberg,&rdquo; a source said.The last spate of rhino killings for trophies was in 2013, and the creeping back of poaching is as a result of difficulties staff are encountering in carrying out their duty, a source said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s depressing, but it doesn&rsquo;t come as a surprise. As we speak, rangers and staff are demotivated, since the facilitation that was there before to enable them collect intelligence, respond to incidences and carry out daily operation, is no longer there,&rdquo; a source told the Star on Wednesday.A field officer said all operations have stalled and they blame it on the headquarters. He said, &ldquo;Today, almost all field cars have broken down. Our choppers aren&rsquo;t operational. Sometimes for the love of our heritage, we use our own cash to hire motorbikes or beg for lifts from tourists to respond to incidents. If nothing is done, the spike in poaching will be back, because poachers know our weakness.&rdquo;KWS director general Kitili Mbathi confirmed the killings, but denied knowledge of poaching cases in other parks. He said the agency is always vigilant to preempt constant threats. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s fair to say we have a financial crunch, thus we cant buy new cars. For the choppers one has been grounded for routine servicing and the other has a small problem and will be out for a while,&rdquo; Mbathi said. On allowances and per diem blamed for bogging down the morale of staff, he said they have introduced tight financial controls and consolidated bank accounts at the headquarters.