Internationally, 2016 was a particularly bad year. Here in Kenya we had our share of tragedy and triumphs. One event that combined both was the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.Our athletes performed the best ever in our Olympic history, while those in charge &mdash; the Olympics committee &mdash; performed the worst. There is a major lesson we can draw from this one event in 2016.Usually, the highlight of the Summer Olympics Opening Ceremony is the pageantry and splendour that is the Parade of Nations. This is where participating countries walk down the track, proudly displaying their flag, and national colours. It is a once-every-four-years chance to show-off culture, heritage and national pride on a truly international stage.For reasons Sports CS Hassan Wario and his gang know best, we will not discuss Kenya&rsquo;s appearance in the Parade of Nations. But let us take a moment to look west at Nigeria.Nigeria leads the pack in Africa&rsquo;s most vibrant cultures. But on this auspicious day in Rio last year, they walked the parade in plain looking tracksuits, not resplendent &lsquo;kitenges&rsquo; and spectacular headgear as would befit the pomp of the opening ceremony.As it turns out, the reason for their lacklustre representation was not that their committee squandered the money on an extravagant entourage to Brazil like Kenya&rsquo;s &mdash; the problem was very &lsquo;African&rsquo; ; the tailors did not finish making the ceremonial clothes in time.Most Africans can resonate with this situation. The tardiness of &lsquo;fundis&rsquo; is a natural phenomenon here. It stands at legendary proportions.Which Kenyan doesn&rsquo;t know of a wedding where garments are being completed just in the nick of time? Maybe even on the morning of?Now, Nigeria has participated in all the Summer Olympics Games since 1952, except the African boycott of the Montreal edition in 1976.So for four years, they knew that they needed to prepare. Last year, they sent 77 athletes. This means that, had they began preparing in 2012, and only had one single tailor in the whole of Nigeria making the ceremonial garments, she/he would have had plenty of time, up to 19 days to make one single outfit. And if they had just five tailors, they would have three full months each to complete just one garment.Although in the end Nigeria&rsquo;s level of &lsquo;Olympic unpreparedness&rsquo; was baffling, it is hardly a matter of life and death.In the matter of dress, national pride can be easily restored. And anyway, Nigeria went on to perform well in the Rio Olympics. The tragedy of this African unpreparedness however, happens when this mediocrity is applied to other cyclical events like elections, where it actually can be a matter of life and death.In Kenya, we have had almost five years now to prepare since the last elections. But we appear to be in a suspicious state of unpreparedness. We are in an eleventh hour scramble to alter electoral legislation, put commissioners in place and debate over operational matters.It is as if the elections have sneaked up on us. This points to two things: Either chronic incompetence or plain monkey business.The opposition on the one hand is angling for a constitutional crisis and logistical lapses so they can wiggle and &lsquo;mass-action&rsquo; their way into governance, and the government is angling for the status-quo so they can retain governance.Like the Nigerian fundis and the Olympics, the Kenyan elections may catch the country flat footed. A botched election as a result of sub-optimal action will be totally unforgivable. For the Kenyan people, this will be an Olympic-sized cock-up.