As President Obama and his family left Washington, DC for his farewell address Monday, it was clear to the crowds watching the outgoing First Family that Malia - more than anyone there - will leave the White House transformed.Just six months ago the 18-year-old appeared to be in the middle of a fierce rebellion, being filmed twerking, apparently smoking marijuana and partying alongside a massive bong.That in itself was a vast change from how she first appeared in public in 2008 - the confident, precocious young girl happily waving to the crowds as her father accepted his historic nomination into the Oval Office.Smile! Malia looks confident on camera as her mom hugs her at an election night gathering in 2008. AGENCIES But on Monday she had changed again: Gone were the denim cut-offs and midriff-baring T-shirts of summer, replaced by a chic wool coat and smart black boots.And as the 6'1' young woman strode beside her parents, she looked as much a glamorous, mature, political mover-and-shaker as either of them. This was the Malia that Barack Obama paid tribute to on Monday, as he spoke to ABC about seeing his daughters grow up in the White House, and the fears he had that they might 'develop an attitude'.'All I can say is they have turned out to be terrific young women,' the proud father said. 'They are sweet, kind, funny, smart, respectful people, and they treat everybody with respect.'You know, we feel pretty good when... they go to other folks' houses and when the parents say, "Oh, you know, Malia, she's just so sweet,"' he said. Stepping out: Malia (seen here in 2015 visiting Downing Street, the home of the British Prime Minister) blossomed into almost as much of an ambassador as her mom, joining the family on official visits abroad. AGENCIES Malia was 10 when the family moved into the White House; Sasha just seven. But both of the girls adapted quickly to growing up in a very unusual environment.'They complained about Secret Service as they became teenagers,' Obama said. 'But as you might imagine, if you're a teenager having a couple of people with microphones and guns always following you around, that could grate on them. But they've handled it with grace, and I give Michelle most of the credit for how well they've done.'But it wasn't just the world inside the White House they had to worry about - it was the world outside, and the glares of crowds and flashes of cameras that came with it. In their earliest appearances in public, Malia, always seemed the more confident of the two. Almost as tall as her mom - even at the age of just ten - she was always happy to give the cameras the sparkling smile she inherited from her dad.In her clothing, though, she toed the party line, looking to her mom for style cues - such as the coordinated red numbers they wore for their father's election day, or the adorable pink dress she wore for the 2008 Democratic National Convention.Away from the limelight, though, Malia cut a more relaxed figure in those early years, wearing flat sandals and jeans in a tomboy look.She also came out from under her mom's shadow at formal events, dropping straight-laced looks for flowing dresses in colorful hues. In 2010 Malia - at that point almost as tall as her father - suffered like so many other teens when she had braces fitted. That came as a relief to Barack Obama - or so he told the Associated Press.'Even though she's 5'9" now, she's still my baby,' he said. 'And she just got braces, which is good, because she looks like a kid and she was getting ... she's starting to look too old for me.'Malia still followed her mom's trends as she grew older - aided, no doubt, by the rows of designers eager to give the Obamas their clothes.But as their father entered his second term in office, she started to get into the swing of her teenage years - and began to push her way out of the nest.In 2014, designer Gregory Parkinson announced that 'the torch has been passed' from Michelle to Malia - then 14 - after he spotted her in a string of stylish ensembles.Lucky magazine's executive fashion director, Alexis Bryan Morgan, agreed, telling USA Today: 'I'm hard pressed to think of anyone, period, who had such great style potential at 14.'She has all the elements that make a great fashionista. It's really exceptional.'Morgan added: 'She's smart in that she seems to be aware so many eyes are on her. [But] her style seems very genuine. ... She's adding her own twist and having fun. You can't really have style unless you're being true to yourself.' The long limbs she inherited from her father stood her in good stead as she donned everything from flowing ballgowns to effortlessly chic jeans-and-jackets combos. And while Barack Obama had admitted to ABC News in 2012 that seeing his daughter looking grown-up unnerved him, he said he didn't expect things to get too messy as Malia continued into her teenage years.'I'm not anticipating complete mayhem for the next four, five years,' he said. 'But I understand teenagehood is complicated. I should also point out that I have men with guns that surround them often.'As it turned out, his prediction of complications was right on the money.