US President-elect elect Donald Trump has indicated his intention to adopt a different foreign policy posture towards Africa. In a questionnaire sent to the US State Department by the transition team, Trump has raised concerns regarding America&rsquo;s support towards Africa on a panoply of issues including trade, terrorism, health, energy and corruption.On terrorism, Trump wonders why despite the support over the years, al Shabaab still remains a threat. He also raised queries on the commitment to defeat Boko Haram in West Africa.The President-elect has also questioned the veracity of the Africa Growth Opportunity Act, a preferential trade pact that has allowed African exports to the US with tax exemptions. In particular, Trump is cagey about proceeds of Agoa benefitting corrupt regimes in oil producing countries.Even more disturbing is the fact that in his consultation, Trump was more worried about stopping the next Ebola outbreak from hitting the US, and not leading a global mechanism to stop the outbreak in the first place. Moreover, his tone regarding President's Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief has thrown optimists and beneficiaries into the pool&rsquo;s deep end.The incoming President has equally raised concerns over the influence of China in Africa compared to America's. &ldquo;How do US businesses compete with other countries in Africa? Are we losing out to the Chinese?&rdquo; he asks.While the move to seek information on US foreign support by an incoming President is legitimate and procedural, it is the attitude inherent in the consultations that has raised eyebrows across Africa.If Trump happened to America with his election, he is waiting to happen to Africa upon inauguration on January 20. Having risen to the highest political office in the US, even without having held a public job there before, Trump is wielding along a business sense to the White House. Unfortunately, it may not be business as usual with Africa.Considered more transactional than an alliance builder, Trump is approaching the presidency with a "What is in it for us" attitude &mdash; the same approach he used to whip up support for his presidential bid.Under Trump, soft power projection around the world will not be for its own sake. It must rake in tangible returns for the American people commensurate to the investment. Time for free giveaways seems to be up.If the President-elect translates his current posture into concrete policies, it will be a mixed bag for Africa. While strengthening accountability will ensure rogue regimes do not pilfer public resources, to the benefit of citizens, cutting off assistance to health and energy sectors across Africa will certainly be counterproductive.Africa&rsquo;s fight against terrorism will also be negatively affected should the US hold back that support. Just as in the fight against ISIS, the war against Africa-based terror groups such as Boko Haram and al Shabaab must be confronted by all, including the US. Pulling back the lever will only allow them to regenerate and pose even a greater threat.In addition, a tough stance by Trump on key US values such as democracy and human rights will push Africa&rsquo;s reneged regimes firmly into the grips of Beijing, something he is already worried about.China has raved up efforts to provide an alternative socioeconomic and political worldview to Africa, with commendable results. Chinese state-sponsored firms are undertaking massive infrastructural projects in Africa, to the consternation of the West.Beijing&rsquo;s silence on internal governance dynamics in Africa as well as a push for fair treatment of Africa by global institutions such as the ICC has also appealed to African leaders. On the flipside, given his business sense, Africa has a chance to work up a win-win economic partnerships with Trump. The continent has huge bases of natural and human resources that it could leverage on to consolidate the shift from aid to trade. This could spur Africa&rsquo;s socioeconomic transformation as espoused in Agenda 2063.