The Kenya Wildlife Service has intensified its anti-poaching operations across all conservation areas to tame &ldquo;increased organised crime, especially wildlife crime&rdquo; in the past 19 days.This comes shortly after four rhinos and three elephants were killed for their trophies in less than a month. Contrary to reports that another rhino had been killed last Thursday in Lake Nakuru, KWS officials said it was a poacher who was gunned down as he attempted to kill a rhino.&ldquo;Efforts to track down suspected poachers are underway in several parts of the country,&rdquo; KWS said in an official statement.According to incidence reports from KWS, four poachers intruded Ruma National Park in Homa Bay county on December 20 last year at around 9pm, where they shot and killed a Black Rhino and its three-month old calf.In response, KWS launched aerial, foot and vehicle patrols, raided and searched homes of four suspects linked to the incident.&ldquo;One notorious suspected poacher was arrested and booked at Ndhiwa police station. He was in possession of a cable snare (winch) and a rhino hoof. A crackdown is underway to arrest the other suspects,&rdquo; the statement said.On December 22 at around 9pm, three suspected poachers were intercepted by KWS patrol teams in the Taita Ranches. Several ambushes were mounted and one suspect was gunned down. Two elephant tusks recovered.&ldquo;Unfortunately, the suspects had already killed an elephant in the area two weeks earlier. They had only gone to collect the tusks that they had hidden,&rdquo; the statement read in part. The report also said that on December 31 at 5.15pm, a burst of fire was reported by patrol teams within Ngulia Sanctuary in Tsavo West National Park and on responding, the KWS team recovered two rhino carcasses (A mother and a calf) 33 metres apart.One poacher was shot dead as another escaped with a serious bullet wounds after engaging KWS officers. Two others were intercepted as they tried to kill a rhino at River Njoro in Lake Nakuru National Park on Thursday. &ldquo;On the same day, another poacher was arrested at Tsavo East National Park. He had just killed an elephant at the Chakama area of Kulalu Ranch. Two poisoned arrows, one elephant tusk, and a bow were recovered. The suspect was booked at Bamba police station,&rdquo; the statement said.The statement that was issued by KWS on Friday further said Maasai elders around Tsavo West National Park surrendered two elephant tusks. This is as a result of sustained pressure and outreach efforts by KWS teams following the killing of an elephant in the area two weeks ago. The increased poaching cases have been blamed on halting of operations at KWS due to lack of vehicles and equipment.