Twenty-seventeen! Some of us will have resolved to simply go with the manifestly and reputably crooked flow. This is the flow that was framed and styled the &ldquo;kula nyama&rdquo; by hook-or-by-crook flow. They will, hence, be aspiring to be the next Anne Waiguru&rsquo;s, Josephine Kabura&rsquo;s and Ben Gethi&rsquo;s. No surprises there: this is Kenya and we have elite bellies that need stuffing and egos that need stroking through ill-gotten proceeds. Apparently, the politics of &ldquo;kumeza mate&rdquo; is a choice made by the politically gullible, confused and indolent among us. As Jomo Kenyatta was to excoriate his critic Bildad Kaggia: Kaggia, we were together with Paul Ngei in jail: if you go to Ngei&rsquo;s farm, he has planted a lot of coffee and other crops. What have you done for yourself? If you go to (Fred) Kubai&rsquo;s, he has a big house and a nice shamba. Kaggia, what have you done for yourself? We were with Kung&rsquo;u Karumba in jail, now he is running his own buses. What have you done for yourself?Kaggia&rsquo;s response:I was not elected to parliament to acquire a large farm, a big house or a transport business. My constituents sleep in mud houses. They have no shambas [farms] and have no businesses. So, I am not ashamed to be associated with them. By the time they have these things I will also be able to have them by myself.Kaggia died in impecunious destitution. Jomo, on the other hand, amassed legendary wealth. And now we have in Kenya, to stretch by a bit the late JM Kariuki&rsquo;s statement, 40 billionaires and 40 million paupers. The triumph of the full-belly discourse of Jomo Kenyatta may have seemingly vindicated his position but it also has left the very vast majority of us deleteriously impoverished. At the start of 2017, hence, we need to reflect on the foolishness of continuing to journey down this ruinous, opportunistic and individualistic path of full-belly politics. Our National Anthem provides ample material to inspire and illuminate upon such introspection, reflection and resolution.Ee Mungu nguvu yetu/O God of all creation: Kenya believes in God. The preamble of the Constitution of Kenya states, &ldquo;ACKNOWLEDGING the supremacy of the Almighty God of all creation.&rdquo; Kenya&rsquo;s belief in God is, however, not an imposition that every Kenyan must believe in God. The belief of the nation in a notion or idea, as opposed to a value or ethos, is not a command to the one or the few to supplicate to that notion or idea; it is simply to articulate the centrality of that notion/idea to the common belief system. To proclaim the nation&rsquo;s belief in the metaphysical, therefore, does not impose a concomitant dialectical obligation on the citizen to embrace such a belief.Ilete baraka kwetu/Bless this our land and nation: We are truly blessed with a wonderfully and bountifully endowed geographical territory. But have we been responsible guardians and trustees of these endowments? Have we, for example, been faithful to the constitutional decree to keep at least 10% of our land surface under tree cover? Have we exercised environmentally sound and sustainable practices as we have gone about our mining, extracting and infrastructural development? Have we been zealous game wardens to our wildlife?Are we a nation? Are we also not a comity of nations of 40-something tribes? Are these mutually exclusive identities that are hazardous to one another? Can I be Kikuyu and Kenyan at the same time: does my tribal affiliation have to undermine/impair the project of nationhood? Can multiple identities, especially racial, ethnic and religious, not coexist in healthy tension? If so, what conditions must obtain to sustain both the health of the nation and manage that tension between the sub-nations? What is my obligation in ensuring that this arrangement works?Haki iwe ngao na mlinzi/Justice be our shield and defender: Justice above all else to protect all from one and one from all! So in 2017, will our public affairs be just? Will our policies and laws be just? Will our acts and omissions be just? Will the elections be just? Natukae na undugu/May we dwell in unity: Does a true sister or brother kill, maim, loot, violate, gag, exclude or marginalize? Or, in the context of 2017, steal or rig elections?Amani na uhuru/Peace and liberty: Peace is not only the absence of conflict but also the presence of justice, fraternity and liberty. Raha tupate na ustawi/Plenty be found within our borders: We have plenty. Yet still some continue to die from, for example, hunger while we nonchalantly waste, discard and throw away. Do we not own and occupy with so much to spare while some squat or sleep on the streets? Are we not afflicted by ulcers from the plenteousness of excessive digestion while others are plagued by the ulcers of nothing to digest? Amkeni ndugu zetu. Let one and all arise! Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.