Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu is facing the wrath of his constituents for asking them to boycott the August 8 vote, should a road not be constructed. Waititu, during a voter registration campaign at the weekend, said the people should not vote if Wangige-Ngecha-Rironi road is not revamped.&nbsp; He was captured on video saying the people should make their demand when&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta tours the region from Friday, as expected. &ldquo;Everyone who has been elected must refurbish this road if they want to be re-elected," he said. "When Uhuru alights here, he too must be told to repair this road before the elections are held. This time round we are not excusing anyone. We will not mollify a donkey on a slope."Thika Town MP Alice Ng'ang'a, who was also captured in the video, echoed Waititu's remarks.&ldquo;When the President comes, the first issue he should address before seeking votes or telling us to collect IDs and voters cards, is this road,&rdquo; she said. Residents of Kiambu, which Waititu wants to lead as governor, said his remarks amounted to censuring&nbsp; the President. Ng'ang'a was described as hampering efforts by Uhuru for more people to register to vote.[VIDEO] Don&rsquo;t be spectators in voter registration, Uhuru tells youths as he visits MeruRead: Uhuru, Raila battle shifts to mass registrationLocals who spoke to the Star&nbsp; said the two MPs were " killing the morale the President ignited among locals" to massively register as voters.&nbsp; They said the utterances did not motivate them. &ldquo;It was wrong for the two MPs to turn residents against Uhuru in his backyard. The road in question is not the only one in dire state," said John Ndiguitha from Ruiru. " There are other roads worse than it but residents want to get the votes first so that we can re-elect our President. They should withdraw their remarks and urge residents to participate in the elections." Resident Peter Mburu said MPs should be urging their constituents to vote as the Jubilee government has initiated many&nbsp;development projects in Kiambu. &ldquo;The MPs claim they want the President re-elected. But how will he be re-elected if they are telling their followers not to participate in the elections?""Waititu has been in [MP George] Kabete since Muchai died. He should have raised the matter earlier if he cared about his people. This is a critical time for Jubilee supporters to utter such words." A Juja-based leader who requested anonymity said the MPs' remarks were ill-timed and misplaced.&nbsp; &nbsp;&ldquo;We understand the suffering of residents due to the poor state of the road. But if all locals in Kiambu, who come from places with impassable roads vow not to vote in the August poll, Kiambu will lead in failing the re-election of Uhuru and DP William Ruto. Leaders must be cautious with their words this campaign season,&rdquo;said the leader.The President is expected to mobilise Kiambu residents to vote during his tour of Kiambu, as has been the case at the other places he has visited.Waititu will vie for the Kimabu county chief seat against incumbent William Kabogo, real estate mogul David Kariuki (Gakuyo) and James Nyoro. Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a, who is fighting to retain her parliamentary seat, will battle it out with businessmen Patrick Wainaina and Morris Mburu.