Butali Sugar Warriors beat Ghana Police 3-1 to revive their chances of qualifying for the semi-finals in the ongoing Africa Cup of Club Championship at Nairobi&rsquo;s City Park Stadium yesterday.The sugar men had lost 2-0 to Sharkia of Egypt in the opening Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; match over the weekend and needed to win against the West Africans to revamp their hopes of qualifying for the semis. Ghana Police had won their opener 5-2 against Niger Flickers of Nigeria on Sunday evening. The home team dominated the early proceedings with quick runs and their efforts paid off barely three minutes into play when Bryan Musasia sounded the boards. Butali got better as the match proceeded with players displaying confidence and character. This earned them a number of penalty corners, which they, however, failed to convert. New signing Rijksen Joost from Netherlands made up for the earlier missed chances to convert in the 15th minute through a penalty corner for Butali&rsquo;s 2-0 lead. In the last 20 minutes of the game, Police changed the tide and threatened to pull one back but poor finishing ensured Butali went into the break two up.On resumption, Police showed resurgence as they made in-roads in the Kenyans&rsquo; defence but Butali goalkeeper Akbar Salman denied them.Musasia then scored his second goal in the 50th minutes as home team extended lead to 3-0. Richard Adjei scored a consolation goal for the visitors in the 66 minute through a field goal. Butali have a rest day today and will come up against Niger Flickers tomorrow.In a post match interview, Butali stand-in coach Meshack Senge welcomed the win but was quick to warn that they are not off the hook just yet.&ldquo;It was a tough match but we are happy we won. Our next match against Sharkia is important and we hope to win as that will put us at a better place going forward,&rdquo; he added. His opposite number Emmanuel Oblitey conceded defeat but decried the poor distribution of fixtures. &ldquo;We are in a tough pool and we haven&rsquo;t had the time to rest. Tomorrow (today), we have another tough match. In future, we hope the matter of fixtures will be looked into,&rdquo; observed Oblitey.Meanwhile, Kenya Police have a tough tie against continental champions Eastern Company in their second Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; match today. The law enforcers begun their title hunt with a 4-2 win against Wananchi of Uganda on Sunday night. A win for the law enforcers will increase their chances of securing a semi-final slot.Police opponents , Eastern Company begun their title defence win a 14-0 rout of Uganda&rsquo;s Weatherhead. Commending on the tie, Police coach Kenneth Kaunda said the encounter will be tough and took note of their opponents lethal forward.He said, &ldquo;After watching them play, our defence has to be vigil and restrict them from their circle. However, whoever wins the tie has higher chances of topping the pool,&rdquo; he added. In another Group A tie, Wananchi face Ugandans Weatherhead.