Jane Wangechi&rsquo;s water bill has never gone beyond Sh1, 000 a month since she started living in Buru Buru estate more than 15 years ago.But since water rationing began two weeks ago, she has spent Sh3,000 in buying the resource from water hawkers.&ldquo;On average, I use five 20-litre containers every day because I have children who must bathe and I have to wash their clothes,&rdquo; Wangechi, a mother of four, says.Hiked pricesShe buys water from the hawkers, who sell a 20-litre water drum for Sh50. &ldquo;I must buy because I have no option,&rdquo; she says.Wangechi&rsquo;s story is similar to Janet Mundia&rsquo;s, who lives in Umoja 1. Mundia pays Sh40 for a 20-litre container, up from the Sh20 she used to pay for the same capacity last year.&ldquo;Water comes here two times a week. And when it comes, we have to collect and store enough for the entire week. But because I have children, I cannot store enough water. So I have to buy,&rdquo; she says.When asked about the quality of water she buys, Mundia says, &ldquo;I have never thought about that. But really there is nothing we can do. We cannot do without water.&rdquo;John Omondi, a Mathare resident, says water vendors in the area have increased prices to Sh50 from the &lsquo;usual&rsquo; Sh10 for a 20-litre drum.&ldquo;Living in Nairobi is becoming harder. I am a casual labourer, and I have a wife and two children. I need to pay their fees and feed them,&rdquo; he says.Wangechi, Mundia and Otieno are among the thousands of city residents feeling the pinch of the water rationing that started two weeks ago.A spot check by the Star in several parts of the city found that more than 10 estates, mostly in Eastlands, have been hit severely by the water shortage.These include Bahati, Donholm, Jericho, Mathare, Shauri Moyo, Umoja II and III estates.Saulo Ambani, a water hawker in Jericho, says business has been booming the last three weeks and they have been forced to increase prices because of the high demand.&ldquo;Yes, we have increased the prices from Sh20 to between Sh50 and Sh80, depending on the distance between where we get the water and where the customers are,&rdquo; he says.He says that unlike last year when he used to sell only 15 20-litre containers a day, he is now selling 150.Most severe rationingThe rationing, which started on January 1, has been caused by the drastic drop in water level at the Ndakaini dam, which supplies 85 per cent of the city&rsquo;s water.Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company managing director Philip Gichuki says the 70 million cubic metre capacity dam is only 40 per cent full.He says this was caused by a prolonged dry spell in Kikuyu, Aberdares and Mt Kenya areas and noted that the water rationing will continue until the long rains begin in March or April.The MD says Ndakaini has only received 250mm of rain against the 1,000mm usually received at this time.&ldquo;We have been forced to reduce distribution. If an estate was receiving water for four days, we have reduced it to three and those who were receiving for five days are now getting water for four,&rdquo; Gichuki says.Though water rationing has been going on in the city for years, it has never been so severe. Figures from the NCWSC show that on normal days, Ndakaini dam supplies 540,000 cubic metres of water a day to the city. This is against the demand of 740,000 cubic metres.But since the new rationing programme began, only 462,000 cubic metres of water are being supplied each day, stretching the demand gap to 278,000 cubic metres, up from 200,000 cubic metres.Water quality fearsNCWSC corporate affairs manager Mbaruku Vyakweli says it is not easy for the vendors to sell contaminated water to the residents as they (vendors) buy from the company.He says the vendors are licensed by the water agency and are buying the resource at established water selling points.&ldquo;We know some unauthorised people may be sneaking in because of the situation, but we are on high alert. Only clean, treated water should be sold to the residents, however bad the situation may be,&rdquo; he says.However, with the shortage, most vending points have been closed and the number of vendors reduced.Health executive Bernard Muia says residents cannot be absolutely sure of the quality of water they buy from the hawkers, as nobody knows its source. He urged city dwellers to either treat or boil the water before using it.He said although the county has enough stock of chlorine tablets, it cannot distribute it without proper plans to ascertain how many households are in dire need.Water executive Peter Kimori says the situation is &ldquo;worrying&rdquo; and may worsen in the coming days if it doesn&rsquo;t rain.&ldquo;We are in trouble if it doesn&rsquo;t rain in the near future. The situation is bad and is worsening. Nairobians should use water sparingly,&rdquo; he said.He urged residents to use recycled water in toilets, gardens and washing cars.&ldquo;I am very happy with what some of the five-star hotels in our city are doing. They are using recycled water in toilets, and this should be encouraged, even at home,&rdquo; he says.Kimori says if the situation worsens as is expected, they will be forced to ration further. However, hospitals, airports and other establishments that cannot run without water will be prioritised.The executive says City Hall has already made a deal with the national government to sink 40 boreholes in various estates for Sh200 million to reduce the shortage.Cartels not to blameSome residents blame cartels for the water problem. They claim some officers at the NCWSC are working in cahoots with cartels to perpetuate the problem and extort money from residents.But Vyaweli and Kimori rubbished the claims, terming them unfounded. &ldquo;That is not true. I don&rsquo;t think someone can do such a thing,&rdquo; Kimori said.Late last year, the government and Red Cross announced that over 1.3 million Kenyans were in dire need of relief food and water because of the prolonged drought.Last December, the UN&rsquo;s Food and Agriculture Organisation warned that the country would experience &lsquo;worsening&rsquo; drought this year.