Short, Nasty and Brutish! Does this sum up your experience on our roads? Thomas Hobbes might aptly describe it so.Like me, am certain you have childhood memories. Mine is about Kahonoki&rsquo;s. A tea kiosk (kiothe) that we frequented. Kahonoki&rsquo;s served the tastiest bun called kamuhya. The purposeful cutting of kamuhya in quarters, showing several layers of margarine, was intended to make us salivate. And it always worked. Sadly, I never enjoyed the tea as much. I still don&rsquo;t understand why they served it in a glass; poured from an aluminum kettle that was perpetually &lsquo;sitting&rsquo; on hot makaa. It was impossible to hold that glass, let alone sip the tea. Take note, none of this was charitable. We paid for it.What do you suppose would have happened, if every time we pledged our loyalty at Kahonoki&rsquo;s, one of us got sick from food poisoning? You guessed right. We would vote with our feet and wallets, by patronizing another kiothe and consuming a different product. Our &lsquo;votes&rsquo; would force Kahonoki&rsquo;s to instantaneously correct their &lsquo;market failure&rsquo;. You see, the market has an automatic reward and penalty system. It penalizes those that are inefficient and greedy, and rewards those that allocate their resources prudently and productively. This is the beauty of competition.Sounds like a no brainer. Right? I think so too. So, who corrects &lsquo;government failure&rsquo;? Allow me to pry a little. Do you have any relation to the annual NTSA statistics? Perhaps you do. So, what I am about to tell you may sound heartless. But as definite as death and taxes, given the trends (2,607 in 2016; 3,057 in 2015 and 2,907 in 2014;), this situation will obtain again next year.As you let this grim realty sink in, did you know that NTSA blames your high fertility rates and productivity as some of the factors for our road fatalities? Now you are frowning with confusion. I will let NTSA clarify it for you. Their report (Road Safety Status, 2015), states that the more we are and the more well-endowed with cars we are, the higher the likelihood of us being involved in a crash, injury or fatality. Not to mention your love of a nocturnal lifestyle, particularly from Friday to Sunday, exacerbated by high speeds due to an increase in the number of paved roads, poor visibility and your inebriated state.Now, visualize the proprietor of Kahonoki&rsquo;s inviting you for a breakfast meeting. And without missing a beat, he deftly admits that your food poisoning was caused by unhygienic food handling. However, his resources are constrained to &lsquo;police&rsquo; every employee&rsquo;s sanitary practices; and that his supervisor has been &lsquo;corrupted&rsquo; so as not to enforce the sanitary code of conduct. Finally, he asks you to continue with your patronage so that he can educate his customers on the dangers of food poisoning. Sounds absurd? Actually not. As Walter Block would argue, the absurdity is your indulgence when NTSA mislabels proximate causes as factors of road fatalities; when they blame your inadequate road safety awareness; your nocturnal lifestyle, your fertility and productivity rates; your paved roads; your low supply of and &lsquo;corrupted&rsquo; enforcement labor; and to crown it all, your tolerance of their plea for additional funding up from Kshs 1.7 billion annually, only for them to lose Kshs 300 billion annually through road fatalities (NTSA Road Safety Status, 2015). Now, that&rsquo;s absurd.Do you hold to account the guy who pulled the trigger or the bullet itself?Recall when a building recently collapsed in Huruma. You laid the blame squarely on the proprietor. You argued that he did not undertake due diligence in ensuring the safety of his tenants. So, why are you rational with your money and arguments on private, but not on public goods?I enquired from you earlier, who corrects government failure? Each time there is a fatal accident, your public outcry is that the government should do &lsquo;something&rsquo;. REALLY? The &lsquo;homicides&rsquo; are not enough?But what can I do?You took too long to ask, but am glad you did. How about we try a different service provider? How about we privatize our roads? After all, we have a repository of examples where private sector has excelled in sectors that government performed dismally. One case in point, your &lsquo;electronic leash&rsquo;, aka mobile phone.&lsquo;Impossible!!!&rsquo;, you say. Privatize a &lsquo;public good&rsquo;? But hold on. Are you posing this question because you believe it cannot be done, or because you are limiting your imagination on the possible alternatives? Do you know why entrepreneurs start private enterprises? They are inspired by praxeology and motivated by the prospects of profit (Mises: Human Action). In pursuit of profit, they satisfy your wants through solutions that meet your needs. A voluntary exchange then occurs because you value their solution more than its cost.If you were to pursue this conversation over coffee with Gabriel Roth, he would remind you that road space, as with all other goods, is also a scarce resource. Scarcity inevitably creates competition. And as Joseph Schumpeter would tell you, competition in turn births innovation and efficiency, all in a bid to satisfy your desires which translates into profits for the entrepreneur.As a road entrepreneur, your approach would be no different. As Walter Block rightly observes your inspiration would be to satisfy your road consumers with safety. Your motivation would drive you to innovate efficient ways to construct durable roads, improve visibility, ensure security, reduce congestion and accidents, weed out drunken and other irresponsible drivers, and un-roadworthy vehicles. Conversely, your inefficiency and greed would penalize you through compensation of accident victims, compensation for man hours lost in traffic jams, prosecution for you and your staff, and ultimately repossession of &lsquo;your&rsquo; road enterprise.I see that I have persuaded you so far. But I still see that unspoken objection of the amount of time you would spend paying at each entrepreneur&rsquo;s toll station. Well, let me allay your anxiety. You see your bank card? Ever wondered how it works across different ATMs and points of sales? Now you smile. I am sure there is a young techie out there who can whip out in a flash, an App or a platform to facilitate this.But I see you dismissing this as a pipe dream. So I invite you to visit Red Hill Road. Even the lawless matatus have been tamed to comply with the rules enforced by the private proprietor of the buildings fronting this section. On this section of this public road, they do not pick up or drop off passengers, they do not idle or honk loudly; they do not overlap; they comply with these normative rules. Could we scale this up?Visualize the deaths you would avert; the technology you would unleash; the innovations you would birth; the drop in the pump price due to elimination of taxes and levies to government; the infrastructure you would beautify; and the massive direct and indirect employment you would generate. This would be a 24/7 economy. Is this not a win-win?If I have managed to sway you so far, then we can agree that the awarding of which road to who, how much of it and what at what cost, becomes a detail. I enquire once again, should your road experiences continue to be Short, Nasty and Brutish?Susan Mugwe, Political Economistsmugwe@gmail.com