Elgeyo Marakwet is one of the smallest counties both in terms of population and allocation from Treasury.Although it is often in the news because of banditry attacks in the Kerio Valley, the county is equally a hotbed of politics. It is largely occupied by two Kalenjin subtribes &mdash; the Keiyos and the Marakwets.It&rsquo;s these two subtribes that determine the choice of political leaders in the county. The race for governor is heating up with the two communities battling over the top seat amidst an on-and-off talk about negotiated democracy to share political positions.GOVERNOR ASPIRANTSSo far, the position has attracted five aspirants, including the incumbent Governor Alex Tolgos, who will defend his seat on the Jubilee Party ticket.He will face off with auditor and former director of the Kenya Airports Authority Benard Chepkulei, Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui, businessman Livingstone Talel and tea estate manager Samson Changwony.Analysts say all aspirants have almost equal strength and popularity. However, factors such as the subtribes, clan politics, personality, parties and influence from other key players such as Deputy President William Ruto and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, and insecurity in the Kerio Valley will determine who wins.Tolgos the youngest governor in the country at 37, is known to be non-controversial, humble and a calm politician. He previously worked for firms associated with former powerful Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott.&ldquo;Since I took over, we have moved this county to another level of development, with better infrastructure, healthcare, access to water and increased agriculture production. I will seek reelection to complete what I have initiated,&rdquo; Tolgos says.Independent surveys, including one done by Infotrak Research and Consulting Ltd, ranked Tolgos among the best governors at position six.The county was rated highly in health, education and agriculture. Elgeyo Marakwet was rated the best county in the North Rift region.TOLGO&rsquo;S ACHIEVEMENTSTolgos has expanded the Iten County Referral Hospital at a cost of Sh400 million, renovated and equipped 25 rural dispensaries with adequate drugs and purchased five ambulances. The county has also hired additional medical staff. The governor has been on the forefront in helping farmers diversify from maize to other crops such as avocados, coffee and tea. There are plans to put up a Mango factory in the Kerio Valley. More than 4,000 hectares have been put under irrigation, and livestock farmers have benefitted from 45 cattle dips and a new milk processing plant, which the county has built.On infrastructure, Tolgos says they have bought road construction equipment and have awarded 45 contracts, through which more than 250km of rural roads have been gravelled.Tolgos says they have increased revenue generation from Sh75 million a year to Sh130 million.&ldquo;We have also initiated 116 water projects to ensure residents have access to water,&rdquo; he says. In education, 112 ECD centres have been put up and 443 ECD teachers hired. Vocational training centres have been expanded, increasing enrollment by 36 per cent &mdash; from 925 students to 1,260. He has also been instrumental in pushing for lasting peace in the Kerio Valley.WHAT RESIDENTS SAY&ldquo;There may be challenges because devolution is still new in this country. But as residents, we have seen some changes. There are nurses and drugs in local health centres unlike in the past,&rdquo; Leah Chelimo, a resident of Kaptarakwa in Keiyo South, said.NGOs council chairman Stephen Kapchila, a resident, says devolution has to an extent moved services and development closer to the people. He, however, says there is need for better management. Critics accuse Tolgos of skewed hiring in his government and exorbitant spending on priority projects.A border dispute between Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet over the ownership of the multi-million Chebororwa Farmers Training College may also complicate Tolgo&rsquo;s chances after he publicly said the college belongs to Uasin Gishu. Residents and county leaders insist it&rsquo;s Elgeyo Marakwet&rsquo;s. An official governor&rsquo;s residence at Kamariny at Sh500 million has residents and local activists question his judgement and priorities .&ldquo;Our people are very poor and do not need a palace in the midst of grass-thatched houses,&rdquo; Jane Kibet, a Kamariny resident, said. Tolgos and Tallel are from Marakwet while Kiptanui, Chepkulei and Changwony are from Keiyo. There is talk among the Keiyo that they should take one of the county elective seats unlike in 2013 when both the governor and the Senate position went to the Marakwets.Kiptanui is a two-time MP. He prides himself as having been rated as one of the best MPs in the use of CDF.&ldquo;I am an experienced leader and I have the capacity to fix the problems we face in terms of infrastructure, education, water and insecurity,&rdquo; Kiptanui said. He denies claims he is being fronted by Murkomen. Murkomen says he has no capacity to impose a governor on the people. &ldquo;Kiptani is my friend just like other leaders in this region, but he is in the race on his own and within his own rights,&rdquo; Murkomen says.Chepkulei has the elders&rsquo; blessings. He is a person living with disability but says his experience in auditing and in government puts him a at a better position to manage the county.&ldquo;Like in 2013, the people will look at one&rsquo;s capability as a leader and not the subtribe. I will do better as governor because of my qualifications not because of my clan,&rdquo; Chepkulei says.Changwony unsuccessfully vied for governor in 2013 on a Kanu ticket and lost by about 20,000 votes. Kanu official in the region Paul Kibet says Kanu will cause a major shift in the region&rsquo;s politics by unveiling its candidate in March. He admits the Keiyo, Marakwet subtribes will be a major factor. &ldquo;In that case, the Keiyos are shooting themselves in the foot by fielding many aspirants who will divide the votes. They will consequently allow someone from the Marakawet side, most probably Tolgos, to win in the nominations,&rdquo;Kibet said.Eldoret Bishop Cornelius Korir says political leaders in the region should be committed to finding a lasting solution to the banditry problem, which has destroyed many lives.A section of leaders from the Marakwet community says locals may even opt to vote for opposition candidates because the Jubilee government has been unable to end banditry. Opposition chiefs Musalia Mudavadi and Raila Odinga may, as sources say, back Kanu aspirants in the region. Kanu has been making inroads.DP Ruto may also play a key role in deciding who wins because of the political influence he wields. Having 134,568 registered voters in 2013 and a population of about 369,998, Elgeyo Marakwet can&rsquo;t be rated as a complete Jubilee zone. There are chances the opposition will infiltrate and influence the voters, especially in Marakwet.