Chelsea matches are so boring to predict because they are beating everyone everwhereLiverpool Vs Swansea Today 3.30pmMy Prediction: The Reds 3-1 The SwansLiverpool haven&rsquo;t lost a league game since the 4th of December. Wow I hope they are proud of themselves. Infact midweek they managed to beat Plymouth Argyle 1-0 in the FA Cup to advance to the next round so well done to them. Yes I&rsquo;m being sarcastic because they are still only just one point ahead of the Gunners. The Reds will be missing the crucial services of Sadio Mane who is doing national duty for Senegal at the African Cup of Nations and that might hurt them. Although Swansea aren&rsquo;t much competition for anyone right now. They are fresh from their 4-0 drubbing by Arsenal and have lost six of their last seven matches in all competitions. They also have a very poor record at Anfield having never won a league game there. I just think with Jurgen Klopp&rsquo;s desire to keep chasing Chelsea who sit pretty at the top, they won&rsquo;t slip against a side who are bottom of the league.Stoke Vs Manchester United Today 6pmMy Prediction: Stoke 1-3 The Red DevilsStoke City are fresh from wins over Watford and Sunderland so their confidence is high but they haven&rsquo;t been performing well against big sides. They conceded four goals each against Liverpool and Chelsea and with United running all over the small sides, I won&rsquo;t be surprised if manager Tony Pulis&rsquo; side concede four more in this game. As much as I respect Stoke, they only have 7 wins in their 21 matches played this season while Man United are on a roll! As much as we troll them about being 6th; this could be the weekend that they begin to climb the standings; particularly since 5th place Man City play Spurs tonight. Even though they came from behind to draw 1-1 with Liverpool last Sunday Jose Mourinho&rsquo;s boys are looking good and grinding out much needed results. Zlatan Ibrahimovich has challenge players like Paul Pogba to use criticism to spur them on and get three points each week. The quality is undoubted and their form is good; so it&rsquo;s their attitude that needs to catch up! And something tells them; they&rsquo;ll be in the right place mentally today.Arsenal Vs BurnleyMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-0 BurnleyArsenal are so blowing hot and cold this season and I just wish we could be consistently hot. After a good run we stumbled somewhat in December with two consecutive losses to Everton and Man City. We recovered somewhat to beat West Brom and Palace but then embarrassingly allowed Bournemouth to take points away from us. Yes it was a great comeback; but a team like Arsenal shouldn&rsquo;t put itself in a position to have to mount a comeback against a team like Bournemouth. We responded well though last weekend with that 4-0 drubbing of Swansea and I just hope our confidence is still high as we face Burnley. These &ldquo;small&rdquo; teams can be a headache to play in the second half of the season and Burnley has taken points off teams we struggled to beat; like Liverpool and Bournemouth. Last weekend they beat Southampton 1-0 and that&rsquo;s another team Arsenal struggles with. We just managed a 1-0 victory over them in October and I hope Manager Arsene Wenger has prepared his boys mentally to mince them this weekend. We certainly have the pedigree to show them who&rsquo;s boss! Chelsea Vs Hull CityMy Prediction: The Blues 2-0 HullChelsea matches are so boring to predict because they&rsquo;re beating everyone everywhere. The FA should disqualify them for being disrespectful to grown men with wives and children! Okay let me be serious. As much as Diego Costa has received a lot of the applause this season Antonio Conte proved last weekend that even without him, they are still &ldquo;champions-in-waiting.&rdquo; On the flipside Hull have been rubbish! They got rid of their manager Mike Phelan early this month and new boss Marco Silva has started on a high, beating Bournemouth 3-1 in his first league game in charge. The new boss syndrome you might add. Reality however will dawn on them at Stamford Bridge where Conte&rsquo;s boys are taking no prisoners. I feel sorry for Silva and I ask that he not be judged by the result of this game.