Representatives of public and private organisations yesterday opposed the use of manual backup for voting and transmission of election results at the August 8 election. But AG Githu Muigai supported it.They include the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Council of Governors, Human Rights Commission on Human Rights, Law Society of Kenya and Media Owners&rsquo; Association. Their representatives told a joint Senate committee the IEBC should only be allowed to use manual backup on special cases, such as with people living with disability.MOA chairman SK Macharia told the Legal Affairs and ICT committees the electoral agency should purchase standby backup equipment. He said &ldquo;transmission of results is neither here nor there,&rdquo; adding the voting is always manual. The committees collected views on the controversial changes made to the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill by the National Assembly. It is expected to present a report to the House today.&ldquo;Voters can be verified as long as the register is correct. As far as transmission is concerned, you can use satellite phones where there is no network. They are very cheap. There is no issue of electricity or network. They are powered by batteries,&rdquo; Macharia said.The joint committee was co-chaired by Busia Senator Amos Wako and Nyeri&rsquo;s Mutahi Kagwe and sat at Parliament Buildings.&ldquo;You can have a printout of the register, but it&rsquo;ll not contain fingerprints or facial identity. There is no big deal, there should be standby equipment.&rdquo;KNCCI chairman Kiprono Kittony, the KNCHR, CoG and LSK expressed similar sentiments. But Muigai said a purely electronic system can easily fail, noting that Kenya has a manual system only supported by electronic components.&ldquo;Failure of electronic identity is almost guaranteed and that is the nature of electronics. The credibility of an election is so critical to the political stability of the nation,&rdquo; he said. Muigai urged all players to listen to the IEBC, which proposed the amendments.&ldquo;When we make a law, we should listen to the people who apply it. They know what&rsquo;s happened in the past and what&rsquo;s about to happen,&rdquo; he said.