On July 7, 1969, just days after Tom Mboya had been shot dead, a riotous mob descended on a Kikuyu man who was trading at Sondu market baying for his blood. News of the death of Tom Mboya had just hit country plunging the nation into grief. The Luo however, were still engulfed by their unremitting anger at the Kikuyu over the ouster of Oginga Odinga in the 1966 Kanu purge and the political intrigues that characterized the months that followed. The trader, pursuing his private commercial interests, found himself at the wrong side of the political divide and he became the face of the sins of his kith and kin hundreds of miles away. If it had not been for quick action by the police, the trader was definitely a goner. The two communities had had a long and profitable political history, working together for many things including the fight for independence and even forming the first Government. Their political Anschluss lasted only lasted three years after independence and the fallout created major fault lines that needed only the slightest provocation to fissure. The game of numbersWe have just kicked off a major voter registration drive that targets at least two thirds of the nine million unregistered Kenyans who are eligible to vote. The month-long window is possibly the only way politicians will know how they will fare in August. Increasingly, politicians are falling back to &lsquo;numbers&rsquo; to secure themselves and are moving away from policies, ideologies or development programs. So high are the stakes that nothing is being left to chance. The voter registration has suddenly quietened the political field and all focus is on numbers. Door to door campaigns for registration mobilization is being carried out to urge prospective voters to register. New methods such as itinerant registration is being urged, particularly for nomadic communities. Before the exercise began, we are just shy of 16 million enlisted voters. This is set to rise to a potential 25 million or at least 22 million if the IEBC gets what it is targeting. The next president is therefore targeting at least 12 million votes to be comfortable. The big question is where the numbers are coming from. Analysts have pulled out their calculators and are working overtime to churn out possible voter patterns and scenarios particularly in perceived &lsquo;strongholds&rsquo;. Forget the track records, political or moral philosophies, democratic ideals or lack thereof. Come February 14 when the exercise comes to a close, they will have a working roadmap to State House ahead of August 8. Simply put, we have reduced ourselves to &lsquo;numbers&rsquo;. Voter registration and the politics of intoleranceThe underlying factor in this high-stakes numbers game is driven by just one word &ndash; political intolerance. Political intolerance is the inability to accept the political views, opinions and ideologies of another even if they have something reasonable to say. It is characterized by a strong feeling that one&rsquo;s own ideas and opinions or ways of doing things are better than the other and so we must do everything we can to stop the other. The stalwarts are telling their voters what should expect the worst if this or that community accesses or remains in power. They base their arguments on stale propositions laced with ethnic stereotypes to craft perceptions that fit their own goals. We are possibly one of the most ethnically intolerant societies in the entire globe.We have brought ourselves to consider our electoral politics to be the means of liberating us from dominance by another community. The spirit behind the current voter mobilization is just that. It is aimed at ending the political hegemony of one community or to end the persistent clamour of power by another &ndash; depending on how you see it. Forget those democratic ideals such as inclusivity, equitability or even patriotism. Big empty words! Forget all those manifestos that are about to hit your face. Nobody reads them nor do they even care to know what they contain. This is why nobody is taking Jubilee to task over past electoral promises. Their eyes and ears were elsewhere. They only want to vote their man and that is it. Just like Joseph Kamotho once put it - even a dog could have been elected if it was in the right political party. Tribal warfareThe political principals are saying that the election will be won (or lost) come February 14 &ndash; the day the registration ends. That will be the actual Election day. The other day August 8 is simply the &lsquo;mobilization day&rsquo; just to legally confirm what February 14 has declared. The ongoing voter registration will allow the decision to be much easier. After seeing the distribution of votes, the political class can either breath easy or work out other strategies to beat the system. This voter mobilization exercise is nothing but tribal warfare and the warlords have sounded the war horns saying &lsquo;come all, we must do all we can to defend ourselves against that community&rsquo;. Everyone who is above eighteen has been ordered to come and register to ensure there will be enough soldiers to face the &lsquo;enemy&rsquo;. The voter registration is, therefore, just a form of (compulsory) conscription. Ethnic mobilization and voter registrationIn May 1963, the African political class mobilized Kenyans to believe that the election was a vote to send away the Europeans. For many years, the Europeans never wanted to extend universal suffrage to the Africans fearing that they would vote &lsquo;against&rsquo; them. Next after that was the by-elections held in June 1966 which was dubbed the &lsquo;mini-General election&rsquo; precipitated by the mass walkout from Kanu. For the Kanu side it, was a vote against Odinga&rsquo;s KPU and by extension the Luo people who were perceived to be rebellious to the rule of Jomo Kenyatta. The Socialist ideologies of Oginga Odinga were never on the ballot, nobody understood those things. It was the first time we saw ethnic profiling take part in our political scene and Tom Mboya the senior-most Luo leader, was put in a very uncomfortable position. The ruling class told the voters that every vote was needed to guarantee that the community they had identified as a threat to their leadership, should not win any seat. The KPU performed very poorly outside Nyanza winning only one seat in the Lower House out of twenty seats it was contesting. In all, they won only 7 Lower House seats. Six of these were in Luo Nyanza and the other being Machakos East. Politics of intolerance after independenceIn the same election, highly respected Independence hero Bildad Kaggia lost his Kandara seat not because he was short of ideas to develop his beloved Kenya after spending years in jail for it &ndash; it was just that he was standing with a community that was identified to be at odds with the aspirations of the ruling class. Of course cultural prejudices against the Luo was a very big part of that election. After the elections, severe restrictions were visited upon the KPU with its handful MPs not being allowed to address any public gatherings and one even complained that Parliament was about the only place they could freely speak. Nowhere else. On March 20, 1968 Vice President Moi ordered the cancellation of Opposition chief Oginga Odinga&rsquo;s passport as he was scheduled to travel to the US on a lecture tour. He even pulled him out of a plane on the runway as he was set to visit Tanzania as an honoured guest of President Nyerere.Later in August 1968 during the Local Government elections, a large majority of KPU candidates were disqualified on very flimsy grounds and could not take part in the elections. Of the 1900 electoral contests around the country, KPU candidates were nearly all disqualified with Kanu receiving a challenge in only 70 Wards nationally. In Nairobi for instance, all the 40 KPU candidates were disqualified by returning officer Bill Martin (then a Provincial Commissioner) thereby allowing the Kanu candidates to be elected unopposed. A bitter Oginga Odinga wondered why &ldquo;&hellip;so many KPU papers were incorrect while all Kanu were spotless.&rdquo; The Government also abruptly increased the deposits from &pound;5 to &pound;10 effectively locking out countless KPU candidates. What worsened the 1968 elections was the move by Attorney General Njonjo to bar any Independent candidates from contesting. The seeds of politics of intolerance were germinating and growing properly watered by impunity and grand standing.The effects of political intolerance This is the year of political intolerance. Political intolerance is perpetuated by our leaders intent on galvanizing and consolidate their own support particularly when their hold on power or access to it seems under threat. They become impervious to the opinions of the other severely marking their own territories. Faced with the possibility of loss, both sides of the political divide raise the stakes to astronomically high levels and utilize propaganda to &lsquo;insulate&rsquo; their base. Where the propaganda fails to work, violence or the threat of violence is the next alternative. People will be incited to burn houses of their fellows of different political or tribal identity. Zoning of areas and pockets of influence are identified and protected sometimes by vigilantes who prevent the &lsquo;enemy&rsquo; from campaigning among them let alone setting up a billboard. Violence is the inescapable reality of political intolerance. In areas of multi-ethnic occupation, we draw lines marking our ethnic boundaries and unscrupulous politicians will depend on one community hating another in order to fuse together their support base. They will propagate negative attributes against them either in public or better still in secret. This sets on a systematic dehumanization program whose end is outright violence. Political intolerance also fuels voter apathy infusing the losing side with the &lsquo;Sour grapes&rsquo; attitude of &lsquo;the election will be rigged anyway&hellip;&rsquo; It destroys faith in democratic institutions and also leads to gerrymandering with voters being imported or threatened with violence so that they could vote elsewhere. We are perhaps the one nation where voters travel long distances to vote. Despite living in the city, many residents will go to their upcountry origins to elect &lsquo;one of our own&rsquo;. Voting for or againstSince the advent of multi-partyism, we don&rsquo;t actually vote for our favourite candidate. We vote &lsquo;against&rsquo; his rival, lest he rule us. We vote for someone passionately or against his rival with uncontrollable obsession. In short, we vote for what our candidate represents to us but in so doing we are driven by the passion against another who represents everything we have been conditioned at the campaigns to disdain. Vote marshals, mostly unpaid volunteers, have already been deployed to the 24,613 registration centres countrywide to ensure that those who are eligible, will vote. It is also noteworthy that the person who appealed to you to register, will most likely be the one who gets your vote. Meanwhile, gerrymanders are busy changing their polling centres. Already, warning signs of gerrymandering are clear and the hotspots of voter importation can be seen even at a casual glance.Ethnocentrism in our politicsI have consistently argued that Kenya elections are not an &lsquo;ethnic census&rsquo; but an &lsquo;interests census&rsquo;. Communities which have a convergence of interests will be voting on the same side. However, propagandists on both sides of the political divide tend to fall into ethnocentrism and a &lsquo;siege mentality&rsquo; as they try to secure their voter base. Ethnocentrism is simply the negative evaluation of another ethnic community solely by the standards or values of one&rsquo;s own ethnic group. Ethnocentrism is identified as a form of &lsquo;structural violence&rsquo; - a term which John Galtung uses to refer to &lsquo;structures&rsquo; or constructs of society which prevent people from meeting their aspirations. Perhaps the one politician who has suffered the most out of this form of violence is Raila Odinga. Every evaluation of him by his political detractors is steeped with cultural prejudices accumulated over the years particularly when they feel him as a threat to their hold on power. His father before him suffered as such and I want to salute those communities or individuals who support him despite being fed with ethnic prejudices and similar trash. If we are to democratize this nation, we must look beyond such &lsquo;below belt&rsquo; thinking and focus on leadership. The politics of cowardsGerman philosopher Goethe said &ldquo;a coward only threatens when he feels secure&rdquo;. Once the leaders feel secure within their tribal enclaves, then they throw the salvos at the other tribes. The root of it all this is political intolerance. We must reverse this trend by actively working against. In a society with many ethnic identities, integrative politics are the only way forward. Since this cannot be legislated, we must write it in our hearts and in those of our children. Whatever the case, it is very important to reverse the reasons behind political intolerance.