Days after six Nzoia Sugar Company managers were arrested and charged with embezzling funds, farmers want former MD Saul Wasilwa prosecuted as well.The farmers yesterday said the EACC should dig deeper to expose the rot at the factory and prosecute more managers. They spoke at Bukembe, led by Moses Wekesa.&ldquo;That was just a tip of the iceberg. A lot of money has been stolen at the factory, leaving farmers, who toil everyday, poor. [It] is [more than] the Sh11 million in question,&rdquo; Wekesa said.Managing director Godfrey Wanyonyi and six other senior managers from the finance department were charged on Friday in a Bungoma court with the loss of Sh11.2 million. They were released on Sh3 million bond each, with a surety of a similar amount, or Sh1 million bail.The six are Ben Wakhungu (supervisor, finance department), John Wekesa (chief cashier), Juliet Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a (clerk), Kennedy Wanjala (superintendent in general administration), Kenneth Omwango (cashier) and Robert Juma (accountant).They face 10 counts of economic crimes, including abuse of office, fraudulent acquisition of public property, forgery and violation of the public finance law and regulations.Wekesa said since the current MD has been charged for offences he allegedly committed when he was the finance manager, his then boss Wasilwa should also be arrested and charged.Wasilwa&rsquo;s contract was terminated by the board of directors in June 2015. Wanyonyi replaced him on May 17 last year.&ldquo;[The] EACC should carry out a proper lifestyle audit of all workers at the firm and very many things will be exposed,&rdquo; Wekesa saidThe court heard that Wanyonyi, while serving as a finance manager between 2014 and 2015, failed to comply with laws on managing public funds, leading to the loss of Sh11,212,711. He was accused of using various vote books to swindle the company.Wanyonyi was arrested in Nairobi on Thursday by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for interrogation before he was driven to the Bungoma police station.The other six managers were arrested at the company premises. They denied the charges.Principal magistrate Steven Mogute set the hearing for April 4 and 5. Last year three sugarcane farmers sued to block Wanyonyi&rsquo;s appointment as acting MD, citing conflict of interest. They said Wanyonyi sits on the board that selected him and single-sourced the firm that recruited him. They said he does not have the required minimum qualifications, including finance training.