Ulinzi Stars&rsquo; preliminary round of the CAF Confederations Cup first leg match against Libya&rsquo;s Al Ahli Benghazi will be played in Cairo, Egypt on February 10, and not in Tripoli, Libya. The clash will be hosted at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium, behind closed doors, the club vice chair Joe Birgen said .&ldquo;We received a letter from CAF on the same effect that the game will be in Cairo. We are planning to travel on February 6 for the match,&rdquo; l Birgen said. The Safaricom Stadium in Kasarani will host the return leg fixture eight days later . Birgen further exuded confidence that the Kenyan representatives will give a good account for themselves on the return to continental football for the first time since 2011.&ldquo;The team is working very hard and from the management level, we are giving them the best of support. I am confident that we will do well,&rdquo; Major Birgen added on the statement on the clubs official website .The soldiers are in the final leg of their Preparations for their return to continental football and have two more friendly matches set for this week after last week&rsquo;s 1-1 draw with Mathare United, where new recruit Baron Okecth scored. In their third pre-season friendly match on Saturday in Machakos, Ulinzi will take on Western Stima and Muhoroni Youth in Kisumu this coming week as the team builds on towards the new season.At the same time, the club confirmed that Birgen was yesterday headed for Germany on a week-long management tour.&ldquo;It is a great opportunity to learn from some of the best clubs in the world. We are at a point where we need to run our clubs professionally as it is done elsewhere in the world and this is one example we would want to emulate,&rdquo; Birgen said. &ldquo;I would love to go and pick the best lessons from there to make our team greater than it is right now and hopefully, we get to the top.&rdquo;This, it was revealed is part of a learning tour for the Kenyan Premier League management committee, which will see club secretaries and Chief Executive Officers learn from the German Bundesliga on how to run their clubs as well as the league in general. &mdash;additional reports from Ulinzi website.