The Jubilee Party in Mombasa has split into three factions for governor, reducing JPs chances of winning the seat against a united opposition.One faction has thrown its weight behind governor hopeful and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Wiper.The faction is mostly composed of businessmen who have working behind the scenes to promote the party. It is headed by Gema Mombasa spokesperson Chrispinus Waithaka.The other two groups are supporting banker Suleiman Shahbal and former MP Annaniah Mwaboza for governor. Analysts say Jubilee&rsquo;s division will make it difficult to win in an opposition stronghold. At the same time, Somalis living in Mombasa have accused the county government of discriminating against them. They said they will vote for a business-oriented governor. Community spokesman Abdub Boru said Awiti fits the bill.The community says running business in Mombasa has been very difficult because its members are always referred to as foreigners.&ldquo;Joho has not fulfilled the business promises he made in 2013 and we are now approaching the general election,&rdquo; Boru said at a meeting in Changamwe hall on Sunday. Economists say investors will have confidence in a candidate whose manifesto focuses on improving businesses and reducing high unemployment.youth NEED JOBSYouth unemployment has been a problem in the county. Awiti banks on the faction, which mainly comprises the Kikuyus and Merus.The two tribes have a significant number of voters, with Waithaka estimating their strength at 25,000 to 30,000 voters. Boru said they have more than 16,000 registered voters.Awiti also counts on the support of the Mijikenda, Kamba and Luos. Governor Hassan Joho faces a tough race to recapture his seat. Most of his allies, including Deputy Governor Hazel Katana, are uneasy and have volted over what they call frustration and disrespect.Waithaka said he will rally fellow tribesmen, the business community and other voters to campaign for Awiti. The businessman, who owns numerous logistics, companies has been advocating better trade laws. &ldquo;High unemployment cannot be tackled if companies are closing down due to punitive legislation,&rdquo; Waithaka said.He said other Jubilee governor hopefuls and Joho are not keen to streamline the business sector, whic has &ldquo;significantly deteriorated&rdquo;.IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTIONWaithaka was speaking in Changamwe during voter registration on Friday. Awiti said the contribution of the Somali community in Mombasa&rsquo;s economy cannot be underestimated.He said only a fellow businessmen will understand the pain caused by a declining economy caused by &ldquo;avoidable decisions&rdquo;. Gema and the business community have accused Joho&rsquo;s administration of increasing levies, hurting businesses. Some have complained of being denied permits.&ldquo;For Mombasa governor, there is nothing like Jubilee or Cord, only in the presidency. We want our businesses, which face unnecessary threats, to be protected,&rdquo; Waithaka said.