The rift between Deputy President William Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi played out in public at the funeral of former nominated MP Mark Too in Eldoret yesterday.The two, who spoke mostly in the Kalenjin dialect, clashed in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who in his address urged elderly Kalenjin politicians to emulate Too and help unite residents.Gideon sparked off the clash when he urged politicians who lose at the Jubilee Party nominations to be ready to join Kanu. This drew sharp responses from Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale, who are Ruto&rsquo;s close allies.The Baringo senator, who represented retired President Daniel Moi, said all politicians have the right to seek leadership. &ldquo;If I go looking for leadership and I succeed, all of you will be happy, just like if someone else succeeds,&rdquo; Gideon, who has hinted at vying for presidency in 2022, said.He recently urged Uhuru to directly seek support from the Kalenjin community, instead of relying on Ruto.Don&rsquo;t advise usIn his speech, Ruto said, &ldquo;Some of these people who were not with us last time are now telling Uhuru to come and talk to Kalenjins directly. He knows how we won last time and we will do the same this time. It is not them to advise us.&rdquo;&ldquo;It will not be possible for those thinking they will divide us this time.&rdquo; Ruto said in the Kalenjin community, once a decision has been made on the direction to take, it is not possible to change course.He said if Moi had not been tough, he could not have ascended to power and united Kalenjins. The DP said he is ready to fight his way in politics.Ruto said all Kenyans should ensure elections are free and fair, so the country can prosper thereafter. Duale and Mandago urged Gideon to help Ruto succeed Uhuru, instead of undermining him.&ldquo;I am a friend of the Kalenjin community and I want to urge you not to gamble in politics. The person who is close to power is Ruto. Do not go looking for governors, senators or MCAs because they have a long way to go,&rdquo; Duale said.He said other people, including his father-in-law, who was an army chief, helped Moi during the 1982 coup. &ldquo;It is now your time Gideon to help Ruto, not undermine him.&rdquo;Duale said Jubilee is prepared to ensure its nominations will be free and fair. He said Gideon and Kanu should not expect to reap from any fallout in the region.&ldquo;We will conduct free and fair nominations. So Gideon, you have no chance there. Kanu will not get any seat and may be you will survive. We pray for you,&rdquo; Duale said.Mandago said Uhuru and Ruto are performing well and there is no way the Kalenjin community will think of changing its political course.Closer to power&ldquo;If someone offers you to select between a cow that is about to give birth and a calf, you will definitely go for the one that is about to give birth,&rdquo; he said.Mandago said Ruto is closer to power than any other politician in the region so he deserves support from the community. Duale said those undermining the DP are envious of his success.Uhuru said leaders should use such forums to unite Kenyans, instead of causing divisions. &ldquo;I am sure if Mark Too were present, he would have looked for Gideon or Ruto and any others to ensure they talk and bring people together,&rdquo; he said.Senior politicians from the region, including former ministers Nicholas Biwott, Henry Kosgey and Jackson Kibor, urged the community to back Jubilee and Uhuru.