A goal in either half by Jaqueline Mwangi and Terry Juma helped Orange Telkom defeat Ghana Revenue Authority 2-0 to retain the title as the curtain came down on the Africa Cup for Club Championship at City Park Stadium yesterday.It was a sweet victory for the home team in the week-long event, having won with the same margin in last edition held in Zimbabwe.And with yesterday win, Orange Telkom have defended the annual event five times in a row and won it a record nine times overall. In a slow match played under scorching sun, Orange started the match on attacking note but failed to utilise their early chances with Mwangi, Audrey Omaido and Betsy Ommala as the main culprits. Mwangi could have put the home team in the lead barely seven minutes into the match after being fed by Omaido but shot wide. She returned to make amends after 12 minutes with the first goal from a well taken penalty corner by Omaido.Both teams gathered momentum with Ghanian forwards piling pressure and their efforts almost paid off when the home team conceded a penalty corner, but Vivian Narkour efforts were thwarted by Orange keeper Cynthia Onyango. The ever-tormenting Elizabeth Opoku would have equalised for the visitors in the 24th minute but her individual efforts were denied by the mean Orange defence. The game was open in the last 11 minutes of the first half but the status quo remained. On resumption, Orange showed early signs of extending the lead when they were awarded a penalty corner in the 38th minutes but Lilian Aura shot off target.In the 44th minute, defender Terry Juma increased the tally for the home team with a well taken penalty corner by Omaido. Ghanian&rsquo;s Narkour would have pulled one back for the visitors in the 57th minute but Orange Keeper Onyango denied her as the visitors continued to trail 13 minutes to end of match.The last 10 minutes saw Orange defence stand firm despite the visitors creating a number of dangerous chances.In a post match interview, Orange coach Jos Openda admitted the match was tough but was happy that their tactics had worked.&ldquo;We dedicate the win to God. Going into the match, we agreed to lock out Ghanian number 10 player, Elizabeth Opoku, who was dangerous whenever she touched the ball and we are glad things worked. We are happy we retained the title and our focus now shifts to this year&rsquo;s event,&rdquo; he said.Meanwhile, Kada Queens of Nigeria beat counterparts Heartlands 4-2 to settle for third position. Moogiate Aghalelosa (28th),Roseline Ovoh (41st), Beauty Irame (42nd) and Bomiegha Ikiriko (66th) scored for the winners while Obianuju Onyedum scored a brace for the losers in the 4th and 16th minutes respectively.