THE Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission yesterday released the first official data of the ongoing final nationwide mass voter registration. There is something about this process &ndash; for the first time, political leaders have expended huge resources to lure the people, especially the younger generation, to registration centres to acquire the vote.Much as there is determination by the political elite to get the people to register, there is a problem somewhere. A sense of apathy has gripped the country because we ask people to vote and they end up never seeing the benefits of the vote. There is a feeling in the populace that the value of the vote has not translated into tangible benefits for the country and the citizenry. The value of the vote is manifested through good governance, sustainable development and accountable leadership.Looking at the political environment, the country is far from realising these issues. Registering as a voter and casting a ballot is considered a ritualistic exercise; a process that hardly adds value, for instance, by way of making the cost of living bearable for the general public.In fact, confidence levels in both the elections and the IEBC are at their lowest ebb. The electoral process has been hugely politicised. Maybe the timing of this final registration was wrong. The exit of the former commissioners, the credibility of elections, the question of ID cards, have provided fodder for hot debate in the last few months. There are more questions than answers in the air about the electoral process. There are many clouds hanging around the IEBC, which has left many Kenyans confused and negates the desire of the people going out to register as voters.It is even a bad sign that listing is being pushed by politicians. The political elite are expending a lot of resources to lure the people to the registration centres. Some politicians are even taking unlawful actions to maximise voter turnout in their areas. There have been concerns around the NYS being used to register some youths without their knowledge; the order by the Ministry of Interior on chiefs to help mobilise voters and threats to sack chiefs in opposition strongholds who assist in mobilising voters. Such decrees tilt the playing field in favour of the incumbentSome regions that enjoy political patronage have recorded higher figures than others. Alingo is the Executive Director of the Institute for Education in Democracy