We live in an imperfect democracy. In fact many African countries with multi party political systems which hold regular elections are imperfect democracies. The elections may not necessarily be held to institutionalise democracy but simply to legitimise autocracy. I will tell you why and what we should do about it especially as we approach the August elections this year.Let us of course agree that there are no such things as perfect democracies but there are imperfect democracies. That may sound a contradiction in terms but it is not. Imperfect democracies are notorious for proclaiming democratic principles and then proceeding to abuse democratic institutions and to ignore democratic rules of day to day governance as well as the important task of choosing legitimate authority. Other democracies, though not necessarily perfect, do not do that. Botswana and Mauritius are good examples. As we approach the 2017 elections let us keep this in mind and take necessary steps which I will hereby discuss. The 2010 Constitution, whatever its shortcomings, has laid down very good framework for building a democratic society. It has a robust Bill of Rights respecting both individual and peoples rights. It has good provisions for democratic institutions and for establishing legitimate authority. The structure of the state, if fortified by enabling laws, allows for proper separation of powers, democratic governance and popular sovereignty. As the Americans are fond of saying: their constitution provided them with a framework for building a perfect Union; any amendment to it would only be necessary for achieving a more perfect Union. Likewise, our constitution has laid a framework for building a perfect democracy; any amendment to it should be with the aim of building a more perfect democracy. We have, however, since 2013, been involved in some amendments to the constitution which do not aim at building a more perfect democracy but creating a more imperfect democracy. As I have always said, the constitution is simply a body of principles, values and frameworks meant to create institutions, processes and procedures for democratic governance. Parliament is there to establish the laws for democratic governance and the judiciary is there to interpret these laws and safeguard against their abuse.Three incidents now stand out as glaring actions by the executive to create a more imperfect democracy. One was the bad security laws that the judiciary threw out after the executive used its parliamentary supremacy to force them on the Kenyan people. The second is the recent amendments to the election laws which are still contentious. We have discussed both in previous articles. But the third, which I am mentioning today, is the administrative strangulation of devolution by doing nothing about the Transition and Consequential clause number 17 in the constitution which requires that the creature which is called "the Provincial Administration" should be progressively transformed to be consistent with devolution. ignoring the implementation of this constitutional provision will continue to undermine democratic governance at the very foundation of devolution.Devolution "cannot be felt by the people" precisely because the Provincial Administration is still the institutionalized form of government at the village level. The sovereign power of the people cannot be exercised through the provincial administration; it is the force of occupation through which the authoritarian regimes have always exercised state power at the grassroots. Unfortunately county governments have done nothing to establish popular sovereignty at the village level by creating the Village Councils. You may not believe it but these councils would have been very useful in mobilizing voter registration, keeping check on buying of voter cards and displacing the provincial administration hegemony even if the chiefs are still there physically. An institutionalised provincial administration continues to be antithetical to institutionalising popular sovereignty as envisaged in the constitution. It will be an albatross around the neck of the opposition in the coming elections. A clear strategy needs to be developed on how to deal with it. The Jubilee regime is already implementing its strategy, linked very closely to the powers of discretion given to the IEBC in the recent contentious amendments in the election laws.In the meantime let us note that were we to be governed strictly along the principles and values laid down in our constitution the idea of political parties getting involved in mobilizing people to get IDs and voting cards would not be there. The constitution says that "the people are sovereign". They therefore cannot be sovereign if they are not recognized as citizens (hence the ID) or as choosers of their legitimate government (hence the voting card). The provision of these two documents is the responsibility of the government if indeed it is a government of the people, for the people and by the people. As we are today we live in an imperfect democracy by dint of the fact that the government has abdicated this responsibility to other entities, including political parties. When the government gets involved it does so partially in certain areas just to ensure the discriminative access to both the ID and voting cards.The announcement by the opposition at Bomas of Kenya this week that it will mobilize its members for a massive voter registration exercise reminds one of the Civil Rights movement in the US and the mobilization by the NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) to register African Americans to vote after the passing of the Civil Rights Acts in the mid 1960s. While the law was already on the side of the African Americans to exercise their full rights as citizens, the US government did very little to provide the enabling environment for these rights to be enjoyed. The enjoyment was still subject to a struggle by the African Americans, and this struggle continues to this very day.I do not therefore expect the Jubilee government to create a favourable environment for free and fair elections. The article by Mutahi Ngunyi in the Standard this past week already "officially" let the cat out of the bag, either deliberately or inadvertently. But it simply demonstrates the fact that in an imperfect democracy the tendency for regimes to undermine democratic institutions and processes is very high. We assume, for example, that the armed forces should not in any way be involved in, or interfere with, the electoral process. We also know that people in the armed forces, like ordinary Kenyans, have the right to vote. But have we ever asked ourselves how voting is carried out in the barracks? Where do the men and women in uniform usually register to vote? In the event that they actually vote in the barracks, how do candidates and political parties monitor the voting? In a neighbouring country voting in the barracks has been a major source of vote rigging. This issue needs to be clearly ventilated and not glossed over.I was surprised when I was part of the Commonwealth Observation Team during the elections in Nigeria last year that there was very little military presence in Ibadan where I was. The police went around as usual keeping a keen eye on matters of security in readiness for any problem. In our case, however, the deployment of the military to certain areas can easily create panic among voters and lead to fears of not turning out to vote. During the last election the sudden so called outburst of the MRC at the Coast was regarded as a deliberate contrivance by the state to scare opposition supporters from turning out to vote. In an imperfect democracy like ours, the people need contingency plans against such things. I have no way whatsoever to believe that such may not be repeated again elsewhere in the coming elections. This time it may not be the MRC; most likely the scare of Al Shabaab may be invoked.The opposition needs to be aware of this at all times and not to be provoked into actions and activities that will provide the regime with "excuses" to interfere with legitimate laws and democratic processes. It was a wonderful strategy not to discuss the mass action issue at Bomas of Kenya. The script, as written by Jubilee, will have to be revised. And Mutahi Ngunyi may need to go back to his alchemist's laboratory to concoct a witch's brew to intoxicate the public with yet another piece of political voodoo.I hope you understand what I mean.A Luta Continua. A Victoria E Certa.