Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu and Thika's Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a are in trouble with Kiambu residents after they were caught on camera urging his constituents not to vote if a road is not repaired.In the video clip, Waititu urges residents to register as voters but not turn out on August 8 if Wangigi-Ngecha-Rironi road is not repaired.&ldquo;Everyone who has been elected must first repair this road if they want to be reelected. When Uhuru alights here he too [should] be told to repair this road before the elections are held,&rdquo; he says. "This time round we are not pacifying anyone. There won&rsquo;t be mollifying a donkey on a slope."Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a says, &ldquo;When the President comes, the first issue he should address before seeking votes or telling us to collect IDs and voter's cards, is this road.&rdquo; They made the remarks at the weekend.But residents have criticised them for censuring President Uhuru Kenyatta. They accused them of demoralising locals and setting Uhuru back after he has worked so hard to encourage them to register as voters.&ldquo;It was wrong for the two MPs to turn residents against President Uhuru in his own backyard. The road in question is not the only road that&rsquo;s in dire state. There are other roads worse than it but residents want to first get the voter's card so that we can reelect our President,&rdquo; John Ndiguitha from Ruiru said."They should withdraw their remarks and urge residents to participate in the elections."A leader from Juja said, &ldquo;We understand the suffering of residents due to the poor state of the road, but if all locals in Kiambu who come from places with impassable roads vow not to vote in the August polls, then Kiambu will lead in failing the re-election of Uhuru and Ruto."Peter Mburu said Uhuru's administration has initiated many projects in Kiambu. &ldquo;The MPs claim that they want the President reelected, but how will he be reelected if they are telling their followers not to participate in the elections," he said. "Waititu has been in Kabete since the late Muchai passed on, he should have raised the matter earlier if he cared about his people.&rdquo;Uhuru is expected to start his tour of Kiambu tomorrow to mobilise residents to register. Waititu is eyeing the governor seat, currently held by William Kabogo.