An editorial appearing in the Business Daily put the spotlight on the Government&rsquo;s Equalization Fund by claiming that counties will not benefit from the fund as expected and as prescribed in the constitution.The newspaper claims that the Equalization Fund, which awards extra funds to poor counties to hasten their development and bring them to par with other counties, has been scrapped after the lapse of the three years timeline provided by the constitution. The newspaper insists that together with the revised formula for revenue allocation among counties, poor counties are losing out from cash meant to correct years of marginalization.Based on these claims, we therefore ask, are poor counties further at risk of marginalization due to the lapse of the Equalization Fund as provided by the constitution?PesaCheck, in partnership with the International Budget Partnership-Kenya fact checked the issue and we conclude that this claim is FALSE.Article 204 of the constitution of Kenya, provides for the establishment of the Equalization Fund to improve access to basic services including roads, water and health services to marginalized communities. The Fund aims to bring about parity in quality of services in these communities similar to those enjoyed by citizens in other counties. The constitution further stipulates that this article will lapse after a period of 20 years if Parliament does not enact legislation to extend the term of the Equalization Fund.Therefore, a claim that the fund will now cease to exist due to the lapse of a three-year timeline is NOT TRUE.The fund faced challenges in implementation because, for the last three years, there were no structures in place to legally disburse these funds to the counties. However, as at the last budget reading, the government had allocated KSh12.4 billion to the fund.Further, the National Treasury published a list of projects across the 14 marginalized counties earmarked to be impacted by these funds, providing evidence that the fund is very much active. During the month of December, Treasury also put out calls in local dailies for public participation from local leaders and citizens to ensure the projects submitted to be funded by the Equalization fund are in line with the priorities detailed in annual county development plans and meet citizen needs. This indicates that these counties are expected to still benefit from the Equalization Fund in future.Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Write to us on any of the contacts below, and we&rsquo;ll help ensure you&rsquo;re not getting bamboozled. This report was written by PesaCheck Fellow Leo Mutuku, who is co-founder and chief executive at a data-science consultancy in Nairobi. The infographics are by PesaCheck Fellow Brian Wachanga, who is a Kenyan civic technologist interested in data visualisation. The report was edited by veteran investigative editor and PesaCheck co-founder Catherine Gicheru, with fact-checking by IBP-Kenya country lead Dr Jason Lakin.PesaCheck is East Africa&rsquo;s first fact-checking initiative. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government&rsquo;s delivery of so-called &lsquo;Sustainable Development Goals&rsquo; or SDG public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water / sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org,PesaCheck is a joint initiative of Code for Africa, through its local Code for Kenya chapter, and the International Budget Partnership (Kenya), in partnership with a coalition of local media organisations, with additional support from the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ).