Last week, I had the honour of attending the celebration of the remarkable life of Henry Kinyua, a legend and titan of the coffee industry and a founder member of the cooperatives sector in Kenya. Born on April 20 1936, he had his primary schooling in Meru county before proceeding to Kagumo High School, Nyeri, and then to the Royal College in Nairobi &mdash; now the University of Nairobi.He later joined the prestigious Makerere University (then a constituent of the University of London) in 1958, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree. In 1961, he married Mary Mukomuthamia. They were blessed with three children; Joy, Peter and George.Kinyua was headhunted from Makerere by the giant Meru African Coffee Cooperative Union as its first African general manager in 1962 to replace a Briton. A highly efficient and focussed strategic thinker, he left MACCU for greener pastures at the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union in 1964 and was replaced by his lifelong friend Jason Kimbui. He moved swiftly through the ranks to the position of managing director until his retirement in 1988.He is credited with pushing coffee production to a peak of 130,000 tonnes per annum, a record that is unsurpassed to date. He was a long-serving director of the Coffee Board of Kenya, the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Cooperative Insurance Services (now CIC Group), and the Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives. He also served as chairman of the Federation of Kenya Employers, member of the University Council of the University of Nairobi and as Commissioner of the Nairobi City Commission.Kinyua&rsquo;s departure from KPCU was as acrimonious as it was controversial. KPCU was viewed by certain politicians then in power as the financier of Central and Mount Kenya East opposition politics. A deliberate attempt was made to sabotage coffee production, management and financing. Kinyua and Kimbui (then CEO of Cooperative Bank of Kenya) became immediate targets. The then commissioner of cooperatives, the late Alfrick Birgen, was instructed to get rid of both men by hook or crook. Kinyua resented the interference by the government in a private limited liability company and told Birgen to keep off KPCU affairs. A narrative was then quickly concocted to the effect that Kinyua was earning a larger salary than President Daniel Moi. In reality, however, Kinyua had been the highest paid Kenyan since 1964 when he was employed at KPCU on a salary of Sh24, 000. The matter went to Parliament where the minister for Cooperatives confirmed that Kinyua was earning Sh130, 000, making him the highest paid Kenyan. The government plan was to cause coffee farmers to resent and reject Kinyua and then lobby for his removal. Njenga Karume, an MP and prominent coffee farmer, however defused the situation by stating Kinyua actually deserved more than double his salary, based on the profitability of KPCU. Not to be outsmarted, the government, in a draconian move, reduced the age of retirement to 55 years, forcing Kinyua and Kimbui out in one fell swoop. Within the short space of one year, the giant KPCU was brought to its knees and is currently in receivership.The history of the coffee and cooperative sub-sectors in Kenya cannot be complete without mention of Henry Kinyua. A courageous, firm and determined man, he was forthright as he never wavered even in the face of extreme injustice. Though often self-effacing, he was the power behind the cooperatives throne. Several cooperative organisations were created on his watch and direction, including the saccos that currently own large swathes of Nairobi. In his departure, a mighty oak has fallen in the forest that is Kenya. Fare thee well.