As three bulls were grazing in a meadow, a lion closely watched as he longed to capture and eat them. But there was a problem. He was no match because the three stuck together all along. Whenever he came near them, they turned in a manner that he was always met by the horns.He thought he was smart. He began whispering to distract them. This worked so well that at last, the bulls became cold against each other. They finally separated and each of them grazed by himself. The lion attacked and ate them one by one.On January 11, four political bulls in the opposition gathered at the Bomas of Kenya and announced that they would announce their presidential candidate in 60 days. This was not what their supporters had expected because they had indicated that they were ready to replicate what Narc did in 2002. At Bomas of Kenya, the four &mdash; former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula &mdash; put up a show of unity and were even joined by Kanu secretary general Nick Salat. He was seen to be representing a fifth bull &mdash; Kanu chairman Gideon Moi.But even before the sun set, Kanu issued a statement distancing itself from Salat&rsquo;s presence and declaration at the meeting. The following day, Wetang&rsquo;ula disowned the NASA movement, despite rooting for a united opposition. This was followed by Kalonzo, who also insisted that the only opposition outfit his party recognised was Cord, led by Raila.Each of the opposition &ldquo;bulls&rdquo; imagine and believe that they are capable of being the joint flagbearer to face off with President Uhuru Kenyatta. They are all angling for this pole position, despite the fact that they have all, except Wetang&rsquo;ula, tried before and failed.And even for Wetang&rsquo;ula, being the flagbearer would mean that Mudavadi shelves his ambitions as a way of consolidating their Western vote bloc. Mudavadi and Kalonzo have each come in a distant third when they stood for President in 2013 and 2007 respectively.For Raila, he has unsuccessfully run for President thrice, coming in second in 2007 and 2013. He remains the most popular opposition leader and will most likely be the August poll candidate &mdash; that is if they decide to remain united.But Raila being the candidate, with his colleagues feeling he has tried it enough times, may actually be the beginning of the end of this unity. Chances of either Mudavadi or Kalonzo bolting are extremely high if he runs. However, unlike them, Raila is the only person in the opposition who has a fanatical following across the country. His not being on the ballot may cause apathy among his supporters. In the two immediate past elections &mdash; 2007 and 2013 &mdash; Luo Nyanza counties had more than 90 per cent voter turnout. This is compared to the 55 per cent in the Nyanza when he proclaimed &ldquo;Kibaki Tosha&rdquo; in 2002.A &ldquo;Mudavadi Tosha&rdquo; by Raila is likely to elicit the same response from the ODM leader&rsquo;s support base. This would also deal a blow to Kalonzo and his supporters in Lower Eastern, who have been in the opposition for the first time. If Raila supports Kalonzo&rsquo;s candidacy, the Western vote bloc will most likely rebel. This is why Raila is the only viable candidate for the opposition. His fanatic following gives him more clout inasmuch as it does not guarantee him support from his colleagues. And just like the three bulls that went separate ways and gave the lion space to pounce, he will lose to Uhuru, again.