The rising use of Ugandan and Tanzanian-registered cars at border towns has been largely linked to higher taxation and age limits on car imports into the country, dealers have said. Dealers and individuals have resorted to importing units through neighbouring countries, especially land-locked Uganda, due a lower taxation regime, Car Importers Association of Kenya said yesterday. The growing trend is denying the government revenue. Cars with foreign plates, especially Uganda's and Tanzania's, are on the rise at border towns of Malaba and Busia, and major towns of Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa and Eldoret. &ldquo;The taxes in Kenya are so high. Some people have realised they can get the same vehicle in Kampala with lower prices than Kenya,&rdquo; CIAK chairman Peter Otieno told the Star. This coupled with the eight-year rule from the date of manufacture on car imports into the country have made units cleared at the Port of Mombasa more expensive than in neighbouring countries, the importers have argued. The National Transport and Safety Authority said it is aware of the high number of foreign vehicles. &ldquo;It would be a concern, but that would be best addressed by the director in charge of registration and licensing,&rdquo; NTSA motor vehicle inspection director Gerald Wangai told the Star. NTSA director for registration and licensing Jacqueline Githinji is out of the country. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s talk on Monday,&rdquo; Githinji said in a text message. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, through the Kenya Bureau of Standards, has put a ceiling on the age of motor vehicles being imported in Kenya where units more than eight years old, from the year they were manufactured, are not locked out. Consequently, units manufactured up to 2009 have been blocked. Uganda and Tanzania do not, however, have age limits hence one can import older cars at cheaper prices, while enjoying simpler tax regimes. &ldquo;Uganda only tax the CIF (Cost,Insurance and Freight) but in Kenya we have a compound tax regime which is making imports expensive,&rdquo; Otieno said. Taxes in Kenya include 25 per cent (duty), 20 per cent (excise duty) and 16 (VAT). Importers also pay 2.25 per cent (Import declaration fee) motor vehicles registration fee and Railway Development Levy. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich amended the Excise Duty Act 2015, introducing an ad valorem 20 per cent tax, based on the value of the vehicle, repealing the blanket duty of taxes between 150,000 and Sh200,000 based on year of first registration.Car imports to Kenya are mainly from Japan, the UAE, UK, Singapore and South Africa. Japan dominates the Kenyan market with more than 80 per cent share. Uganda remains the leading transit destination for imports through the port of Mombasa accounting for 87 per cent off all transit cargo, with cars among the top imports.