Cord leaders Raila Odinga and Moses Wetang'ula have maintained that they will not accept anything short of an electronic voting system in the August elections.The two leaders, who met on Wednesday at Wetang'ula's Karen home, maintained that only an electronic system of voting will deliver credible results.Kalonzo Musyoka did not attend the meeting as he was said to have been engaged elsewhere. "The two leaders talked on a wide range of issues among them the Senate proceedings on the Electoral Laws (Amendment) Bill passed by the National Assembly. They agreed that only the electronic system will ensure transparency," an aide of one of the leaders told the Star in confidence. The Elections Laws (Amendments) Act 2016 seeks to provide for manual back up for identification of voters and also the transmission of election results. This is despite the parent law recognising a backup system that is electronically enhanced. However, Cord claims the push by Jubilee is a plan to rig the elections in favor of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The council of governors, civil society, the business community and a section of religious leaders have also opposed the move saying it will be a recipe for chaos. The Cord leaders' remarks comes as the Senate Legal and Human Rights committee retreated to write its report after conducting public participation on the laws. The report is expected to be tabled during the special sitting of the House scheduled for Thursday. The Bill was passed in the National Assembly after two special sittings on December 20 and December 22, 2016. Cord MPs led by Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo stormed out of the chamber protesting that the Bill did not go through public participation as required by the law.The group said that they did not want to be part of a process to rig the August 8 general election.As the Cord MPs left the chambers, their Jubilee colleagues hurriedly adopted it before assembling for a song and dance within the August House's precincts. Read: Cord moves to court, wants planned election laws debate suspended