Waithera, or Ythera, as she likes it written, must have been an introvert back in her childhood years. So reserved was she that she could not sing the national anthem loud enough in school, as she feared that her voice would be heard.She says that her family didn't know Ythera could sing until she was in high school (Moi Girls Nairobi) where she joined the school choir in Form Two.&ldquo;I fell in love with music very early. I have fond memories singing Alto harmonies to devotion songs, and the national anthem during my primary school morning parade, but never loud enough for anyone to hear,&rdquo; she reveals.&ldquo;It was in the choir that I gained confidence to sing in front of an audience, especially when we participated in the music festivals. I loved the feeling I got as I performed before an audience and seeing the joy it brought them;whether it be excitement, nervousness, anticipation, I loved it! It was during my high school choir days that I experienced the amazing power of music to move people, and it was a feeling that I wanted to hold on to.&rdquo;She would proceed to study journalism at United States International University-Africa, right in Nairobi.In her second year, Ythera would join the school choir and also got enrolled in a year-long artist development program known as Sauti Academy.She acknowledges that it was at Sauti Academy where she interacted with amazing musicians, getting a chance to cultivate her song writing skills and get a hold of her voice, as she says, got to know her voice better.&ldquo;The academy taught me band dynamics, live singing and quite a number of intricacies in music and the music business, propelling me to dive into music as a career. During my last year of campus I released my first single and have been doing music since. Here I am, ready to leave my mark in the world.&rdquo;She is full of admiration for musician Eric Wainaina, an artist she describes as an enigmatic performer and wordsmith.&ldquo;His songs have the ability to make you feel, dance and relate to what he sings about. I think he also curved a path for a lot of Kenyan musicians who do music that is not necessarily considered mainstream..&rdquo; She also likes to listen to Beyonce, the American musician who she says has amazing work ethic and professionalism .Beyonce is also an entrepreneur, a great influencer of pop culture, an electrifying performer and has managed to cut across musical genres.And indeed, she is ready for the million shilling prize, and promises that she will share some of it with her parents.&ldquo;I will give some of it to parents and probably treat them to something really nice because they really, really, deserve it. There's no amount of money that can ever repay my parents for supporting me throughout my music and life but it would be my way of showing gratitude. I'll also invest it back into my music. I have quite a number of songs that I want to record for my debut album and some videos as well to some songs that I've already released and some yet to be released. I would also like to invest some money in sound equipment for live gigs that I can use and hire out and open up a rehearsal space.&rdquo;So there you have it! Ythera could be the solution to our Kenyan music, that she dreams of more diversity, creativity and freedom in our industry; where there is a space for every kind of artist imaginable. Watch her Sunday night on Kiss TV from 8pm M on #TheSearch&nbsp;&nbsp;