Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has defended himself against accusations that he unfairly attacked President Uhuru Kenyatta over Coast projects development.On Friday Joho said he never attacked Uhuru as a person, but rather told off the Jubilee government for failing to initiate new projects.&ldquo;I did not mention Uhuru in my speech. I did not tell him as a person. I said the Jubilee government should show us what projects they have done for Mombasa since they came into power,&rdquo; the ODM deputy party leader said.On Thursday, during the commissioning of storm water project in Bamburi by Uhuru, Joho said the projects, which Jubilee government is bragging about, were actually funded by the World Bank and other international donors.&ldquo;We know the history of this project. It was started in 2010, under the Kenya Municipal Programme, when Jubilee was not in government. So we want to see projects that have been done by the Jubilee administration,&rdquo; he said, as Uhuru looked on.Joho said he expected backlash from the Jubilee side. He was right.The President, Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro and businessman Suleiman Shahbal responded by saying Joho was engaging in cheap propaganda to look for political mileage.&ldquo;I will only engage in development politics. Those cheap politics of how you can fill your stomach, I will leave them to Joho,&rdquo; Uhuru responded.The President added, &ldquo;We will do our bit as the national government. If the county does not want to support us, they can do their own project as we concentrate on ours.&rdquo;Shahbal said, &ldquo;We will not continue engaging in cheap politics. We will strive to ensure our people are empowered economically.&rdquo;Yesterday during a breakfast show on a Mombasa radio station, Joho said he was only speaking on behalf of the millions of Mombasa residents. Joho says he was misunderstood and he was only advocating more projects for Mombasa, not old projects that were initiated more than five years ago.He said working with government does not mean supporting Jubilee.&ldquo;I do not have any hatred for any person. I am looking for my votes as Cord and Jubilee should also campaign on their own. That is democracy,&rdquo; said Joho. The governor went on: &ldquo;The Constitution is clear on the roles of the national and the county governments. They should complement each other.&rdquo;&ldquo;When I say we will work together, it does not mean that I support the Jubilee government. Working together means you do your bit as the national government as I work on my part.&rdquo;He said he will not shy away speaking the truth that Mombasa has never benefitted from the national government funding compared to other regions.&ldquo;They [Jubilee] went to Western region and gave out billions of shillings. They went to Central and farmers were given billions of shillings for their debts. Why can&rsquo;t Mombasa get the same treatment?&rdquo; he said.Joho, a bitter critic of the Jubilee administration, last year clashed with Deputy President William Ruto over the establishment of the dry port in Naivasha.Ruto called Joho &ldquo;an academic dwarf, who does not understand port matters&rdquo;. In response, Joho said Ruto should stick to issues to do with agricultural practices and leave port matters to Mombasa residents.