On April 6, 2009, Prime Minister Raila Odinga bitterly complained that he had been given a lousy reception in Mombasa. Addressing the public, he ranted about how there was no provincial administration official to receive him, no toilet for him to use and and only &ldquo;nusu mkeka&rdquo; (half a carpet) was spread.The &ldquo;nusu mkeka&rdquo; phrase would later be used by his opponents and their supporters to mock him for the rest of the Grand Coalition government&rsquo;s stay in office. President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s diehards termed it a focus on meaningless trappings of office by someone who should be focussed on serving wananchi.On the other hand, Raila&rsquo;s supporters were angry about this and felt, justifiably, that even if you did not like the ODM leader, he was the Prime Minister and deserved to be treated as such. His most vocal supporters expected that he be treated as an equal to Kibaki since the compromise government was based on a power-sharing arrangement. Today, Kenyans are treated to all manner of theatrics by supporters of opponents of President Uhuru Kenyatta in quite a similar manner as Raila. There is an emerging trend with Raila&rsquo;s supporters, especially elected leaders, disrespecting the President publicly.Deputy President William Ruto has not been spared either in this growing disrespect for the presidency, which has more often than not shown how low some of these leaders are willing to stoop to be recognised. While I advocate the freedom of speech for all Kenyans, respect and decorum are mandatory when addressing the President. You do not have to like the occupier of the seat, but you must respect the institution of the presidency. The presidency is not just about the person but a symbol of our unity and democracy, whether we voted for the person occupying it or not.Last week, we saw Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho blatantly lying to residents that the Jubilee administration had not done anything for them, standing next to President Uhuru. Joho tried to paint Uhuru as insincere, one who was just walking around launching projects he had not initiated at the Coast. A few weeks ago, Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo went on a rant throwing all manner of obscene words at the President, in what some have said was a way of catching the attention of her party leader. If Millie believed she was doing the right thing, you wonder why she has rushed to court seeking protection from possible arrest.She was among those who made the President and Kenyans wait for almost an hour to deliver last year&rsquo;s State of the Nation Address. Millie and her colleagues who included Suba MP John Mbadi, Ruaraka&rsquo;s Tom Kajwang&rsquo;, Homa Bay&rsquo;s Gladys Wanga and Ugunja&rsquo;s Opiyo Wandayi, spent this time blowing whistles so that Uhuru could not make his address. In 2014, some leaders allied to the opposition were said to have hired youths to cause chaos as the President addressed a rally in Migori.Many a time, the President has brushed off or laughed off some of the antics by the opposition as they clearly deserve no response. But the DP in a couple of instances responded to them but maintained the dignity of his office, and continues to welcome them to unite Kenyans instead of dividing the people. What these opposition politicians forget is that while their antics at first seemed amusing, they are now boring and tiresome. No one is interested in leaders who instead of showing the way for young people on how leaders should lead, are involved in insults and unnecessary drama.Cord should not mistake the humility of President Uhuru for weakness. The reason they are in the opposition is for the same arrogance and recklessness that Kenyans despise.