Kenya has banned import of birds and all poultry products from Uganda following an outbreak of deadly avian flu near Kampala.Director of veterinary services Dr Kisa Juma said this is a stopgap measure to prevent possible importation of the disease to Kenya.Veterinarians say the highly pathogenic avian influenza, commonly referred to as avian flu or avian influenza, can kill both humans and animals.&ldquo;We have temporarily stopped importation of eggs, birds and any poultry products from the country. I have also sent a surveillance team to the border,&rdquo; Juma told the Star.He also advised Kenyans living near the Ugandan border not to eat wild birds or touch dead chicken or animals. &ldquo;They should report such deaths and unusual behaviour in chickens to the nearest veterinary authorities,&rdquo; he said. Juma spoke after meeting officials from the Vet department, experts from the University of Nairobi and the Food and Agricultural Authority to find a way to stop the spread.Kenya Veterinary Association chairman Dr Samuel Kahariri urged border counties to hold a crisis meeting to stop any outbreak in Kenya. &ldquo;The ministries in charge of veterinary services bordering Uganda must hold emergency meetings and lay uout strategies on how to prevent passage of the disease through the common border,&rdquo; he said.Millions of birds have been culled in Europe and Asia to stop the spread of the H5N1 strain, which can be transmitted to humans. It is responsible for the deaths of several hundred people since 2003.On Sunday Uganda said the disease was brought by migratory birds from Europe. Agriculture minister Christopher Kibazanga said fishermen witnessed mass deaths of wild birds.They were found on Lutembe beach on the shores of Lake Victoria near Entebbe and in Masaka district, about 120km west of Kampala. Kahariri advised the government to stop movement of chickens between Kenya and Uganda. &ldquo;There has been a lot of illegal movement of poultry and poultry products into the country from Uganda,&rdquo; he said. Last year, 51 countries declared the outbreak of one of the virulent H5 and H7 strains of bird flu, according to the World Organisation for Animal Health.