There is no ambiguity that the youth vote will influence the political fortunes of the 2017 presidential candidates.In previous elections, party manifestos have been used as instruments to canvass the support of the youth.While they have managed to convince the youth, they have hardly offered demonstrable pathways to tackling socioeconomic issues that still plague young Kenyans.But there is nothing more disempowering for the youth than the belief that the systems only serve a privileged few whose philosophy is material.The disillusionment this creates can only imagined.People prefer remembering to imagining. So, remember anecdotes of how the mismatch between youth aspirations and their fulfillment has led to discontent and its offspring &mdash; apathy. Needless to say, youth resilience has been fighting back and we see many excel in sports, education, innovation, business and in the arts.In the forthcoming elections, therefore, we need an alteration in the substance of the youth discourse that transcends what the current reductionist political taxonomy calls it &mdash; just another precious voting bloc.It is time for a youth-specific manifesto.The fact that the youth manifesto could bring to bear the total sum of youth intelligence on how to move the country forward is not the only reason why the next President of Kenya should have one. It is a good reason nonetheless. Of course, getting the youth out of the lowest rungs of economic development will neither be a thesis of only youth-led proposals nor the antithesis to the next government&rsquo;s interventions, but a synthesis that reconciles both. Huge resources have been funnelled into youth programmes and statistics adduced to show progress. But as it turns out, youth empowerment is not only a matter of mathematics and geometry. It is time to do a subjective inquiry into the status of the Kenyan youth, demystify the averages and give every young person a location, a social affiliation and a gender.The many resolutions produced for youth during rallies have not successfully prevented them from floundering in unemployment, drug abuse or disease. It is evident that the present youth engagement environment is unfit for purpose, and must be totally changed. On their part, the youth must demand a functioning system because the guardians of the status quo are always on hand with oxygen tents to keep it breathing.A youth-specific manifesto will push through the reforms required to get the economy working for the greatest number of youths.Going into elections without clear structural remedies for youth inequality will only delay their their demographic dividend. There is no gainsaying that for many youths. They need opportunities now, not 10 years from now. Soon, the tribe card will be at its most primal, obscuring debate on real issues.&ldquo;Ethnicity is one of those false friends,&rdquo; asserts the Lebanese-French writer Amin Maalouf. I agree with him. Beyond identity, a youth manifesto would be rooted in a new compact that strengthens the ability of young people to set the terms and timetable for their dreams, and the next government&rsquo;s ability to be accountable to its youth. Young people have been victims of far too many broken promises. A youth manifesto will go beyond superficial remedies to youth issues and grapple with their underlying causes.The beginning of the true wealth of nations is in the productivity of its youth.