THE seemingly sober intervention by the Senate on the electoral laws amendments has earned senators great praise. Their approach may be a result of having come to the issue after the disappointing performance of the National Assembly on the same matter.There is also the factor that there are a number of members of the Senate who are pretty experienced parliamentarians. But it was not necessarily the less experienced MPs who were behind the events in the National Assembly.Perhaps senators are a little less divided on party lines than the National Assembly members. One might even hypothesise that a smaller body (the 68-member Senate) can develop a greater sense of collegiality than the bigger National Assembly (with 350). The greater impartiality and maturity of the Senate Speaker compared with his National Assembly counterpart may have a good deal to do with it.However, the Senate only has a role if the counties are affected. So only a minority of Bills going through Parliament come before the Senate.And they have not always been such a positive influence. They seem to have sometimes been more concerned with their own position (or lack of powers as they see it). And some legislation they have pushed has amounted to attempting to interfere with the working of the counties. Again, their attempts to get extra funding to enable them to &ldquo;oversee&rdquo; the work of the counties smack more of self-aggrandisement than senior statesmanship.That takes us to why the Senate was created. The CKRC and Bomas envisaged a second chamber participating in all law making, and perhaps putting a bit of a brake on the impetuosity of the National Assembly. But the Committee of Experts reduced the Senate&rsquo;s role to mainly representing the interests of the counties. In this they have not been so much of a success. Perhaps they would have performed that role better if they had more resembled the South African National Council of Provinces. Our senators have no necessary connection with the county governments. Indeed, there has been some animosity between Senators and Governors.It is too early to assess whether their apparent sober wisdom in seeking public views that the National Assembly so contemptuously ignored will translate into a wise outcome for legislation. A Senate that is keen to protect the rule of law would especially be a critical breath of fresh air in an election year.