4K is the next big leap in televisions. We started with standard definition resolutions, before 10 years ago high-definition took over. After HD we now have 4K is the next big thing in televisions currently.Late last year, LG introduced their 4K TV technology into the Kenyan market. So how different is a 4K TV from a normal HD TV? We start by defining 4K.What is 4K?In simple terms, 4K means a clearer picture. It is more pixels (8,294,400 to be exact) on the screen at once that creates images that are crispier and capable of showing more detail than standard HD. This gives viewers incredibly lifelike and detailed images, even at screen sizes in excess of 50-inches. In terms of resolutions, 4K resolution, at least the way most TV manufacturing companies define it, is 3840 x 2160 or 2160p.To put that into perspective, a full HD 1080p image is only a 1920x1080 resolution. 4K screens have about 8 million pixels, which is around four times what your current 1080p set can display.Think of your TV like a matrix, with rows and columns. A full HD 1080p image is 1080 rows high and 1920 columns wide.A 4K image approximately doubles the numbers in both directions, yielding approximately four times as many pixels total. To put it another way, you could fit every pixel from your 1080p set onto a quarter of a 4K screen.&ldquo;With our 4K OLED TVs, we tend to describe them as screen on glass. The glass itself is black so images being displayed are a billion rich in colour, producing bright, vibrant images that make everything else fade to grey bringing out accurate color,&rdquo; said Moses Marji, General Manager Marketing, LG Electronics.The history of TV in LG started off way back with the black and white TV, that was followed by colored TV, then LCD, to LED, UHD and Super UHD and the latest model product the OLED TV that comes in both curved and straight TV.&ldquo;OLED 4K TV is a much more superior type of OLED TV, which supports HDR technology as well as Dolby Vision; a demonstration of our commitment to continuous innovation in order to deliver unparalleled at home viewing experience," Marji said.At the end of the day, it might not be the raw resolution of 4K that tempts you into your next TV purchase, but the inclusion of other cool technologies like High-Dynamic Range, Quantum Dot and OLED panels. &ldquo;Our best ever LED picture, Innovative Quantum, Display &amp; Colour Prime Plus technology generate a higher range of color so what you are watching is brighter, better and simply super,&rdquo; Marji said.Just recently at CES 2017, LG announced a 77&rdquo; OLED TV that is thinner than an iPhone. Figure that out now!