The Ministry of Mining is keen to have a system for licensing small-scale miners before dissolution of Parliament in the run-up to the August general election, Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu has said. He said the ministry will partner with the 47 counties to issue licences this year.The process is expected to start once the National Assembly approves regulations to operationalise the Mining Act 2016. The law, assented to in May last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta, recognises small-scale mining.The CS said the plan is to create county licensing committees which will facilitate faster processing of mining licences. &ldquo;We are in the process of operationalising the Mining Act of 2016. The regulations are in Parliament and we are hoping they will be approved once the house resumes in January,&rdquo; the CS said on Tuesday at a media briefing in Nairobi.The creation of the committees was formulated under the new law. The people who will serve on the artisanal committees include a representative of a county governor who will be the chair, a representative of the director of mines who will be the secretary, and three persons who will be elected by the Association of Artisanal Miners. The committees will also have a representative from the inspection division of the Mining ministry, one from the National Environment Management Authority and another from the County Lands Board.An artisanal miner or small-scale miner is someone not officially employed by a mining company, but rather, works independently, mining or panning for minerals using their own resources. It is estimated that about 100,000 people are directly engaged in artisanal mining in Kenya. These include areas such as Mbeere and Tharaka Nithi where gemstone and industrial mining occurs. Industry data indicate artisanal mining accounts for more than 60 per cent of annual gemstone production in Kenya.However, the management of extractive industries has remained one of the most critical challenges for the sector. This is coupled by harassment from state officials, poor working environment, lack of proper protective and mining tools.