The East African Community's secretariat has asked member states to provide last year's tax and trade input data to enable the bloc decide whether it will sign a trade deal with the European Union. In a January 13 letter to the region&rsquo;s ministries responsible for EAC Affairs and revenue authorities, the secretariat wants the five countries to provide data with description of products they are trading in, value of the imports, source of the products (exporting country) and the tax rates. The letter was addressed to Principal (or Permanent) Secretaries in charge of EAC affairs in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. &ldquo;(The EAC)...request you to liaise with your respective revenue authorities , bureau of statistics to urgently provide the EAC secretariat with the trade input data for 2006-2015 by January 18, 2017,&rdquo; the letter, signed by deputy secretary general (finance and administration ) Jesca Eriyo, reads. The data will help establish the impact the Economic Partnership Agreement will have on the EAC, a win for Tanzania which has been pushing for this before it ratifies the long-standing deal. The latest development adds up to an ongoing impasse on EAC-EU duty and quota-free deal, which is likely to further delay. The trade deal stalled last year after Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi failed to sign. This comes ahead of the EAC dedicated session on the EAC-EU EPA this weekend (January 27-28) in Nairobi, to be attended by all the five member states-Kenya,Uganda,Tanzania, Rwanda, and Burundi. During an EAC meeting held on December 19-22, 2016 in Nairobi, to explore the way forward on implementing the heads of states directives of September 8, 2016, experts recommended that the secretariat undertakes an analysis on the concerns raised by partner states. Among them is Tanzania which has declined to sign the pact twice &ndash; in 2014 and 2016 &ndash; saying it will hurt the growth of her industries. Kenya and Rwanda have signed and ratified the EPA deal. A comprehensive report on the impact of the EAC-EU EPA on EAC industrialization and the impact on the EAC tax revenue is however yet to be compiled. &ldquo;This is because the consultant is still considering the impact on industry while the impact on tax revenues still requires partner states to provide tax data for the previous ten years (2006-2016) to facilitate this analysis,&rdquo; Eriyo said. Industry, Trade and Cooperatives Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo yesterday said: &ldquo;we are preparing for a meeting in early February but what I can say is that we don&rsquo;t want EPA to break us away. We are hoping to carry on board Tanzania, Burundi and Uganda&rdquo;. A special committee on trade facilitation and integration is scheduled to seat on January 30- February 3, to finalise the process before heads of states meet.