Retired ACK Archbishop Eliud Wabukala has abused office by "baptising, wedding and burying thieves" petitioners against his EACC chairman appointment have said.The four - Reverend John Mbugua, Gilbert Mukabane, Eric Abu and Jeramba Munuhe - said Wabukala failed during his tenure as Archbishop.They further said in their memorandum to Parliament on Thursday that: "His work at the Steering Committee on Anti-Corruption is invisible despite receiving a budget amounting to millions of shillings."But Wabukala dismissed the allegations saying: "Church leaders are proud to associate with sinners to bring them to God."&ldquo;I have no government interest. I have never takena tender in government. I only do a lot of charity work in supporting school-going kids,&rdquo; he said.Wabukala said the committee, which he has been chairing since 2009, has done good work and is established in 22 counties."We had a limited budget to create awareness and education on graft... Once the secretariat stabilises, all plans will be achieved," he said.The 65-year old cleric told the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee vetting panel today that he will ensure corruption is eradicated if he clinches the seat.He said some of his friends were planning to smear him with mud but that he will not be deterred, as even Jesus underwent this."I will ensure action is taken on corruption but politics and tribalism are challenges in the fight against corruption," noted the former Archbishop."We should not lose hope in the fight against corruption. We are speaking with so much despair," he said.Wabukala said he will liaise with other organisations in his fight against the vice."You cannot fight corruption alone as a chair. I will be seeking partnership from all departments, Parliament, media and the Judiciary," he said.&ldquo;Let us not look at corruption as if it something 'up there'. It is us. I don't want to say like others that I will do this after 100 days, but I have ideas."Read: I am ready for EACC chairman job, Wabukala saysWabukala's approval will be historic as he will be the first cleric to head the commission. Five candidates were shortlisted by the Public Service Commission. The cleric beat William Kirwa, Philemon Mwaisaka, Peter Ondieki, Rose Osoro and Erastus Iguna and was nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta.On Wednesday, Speaker Justin Muturi said Parliament will reconvene on January 17 for a special sitting to discuss nominees for the EACC and IEBC.The committee chaired by Ainabkoi MP Samuel Chepkonga is to draft a report and table it in Parliament on that date for approval.