The Nod. You nod in agreement; in understanding or when signaling. It&rsquo;s just that. A Nod. Or so you think.If you happen to visit a country where there are not many of your color, and you encounter another of your kind, there is a robotic head movement that involuntarily kicks in. You imperceptibly raise and lower your head slightly and briefly when you make eye contact. Invariably, the other person reciprocates. All this is done without missing a step as you both continue in your separate ways.Unlike the &lsquo;normal&rsquo; nod, this Nod is not a sign of agreement; nor is it signaling or displaying understanding. It&rsquo;s not enshrined in any instrument of governance; nor is it birthed from some grand ethnic declaration. It&rsquo;s not taught in any formal or informal setting; nor is it an acquired talent. Rather, The Nod is a significant statement of ethnic solidarity. It&rsquo;s an unspoken acknowledgement that you share a kindred spirit. It&rsquo;s a subtle display of a fraternity. It&rsquo;s a testimonial that you have a connection and a bond. It&rsquo;s an unwritten show of support. It&rsquo;s an unwritten rule of respect. It&rsquo;s a cultural phenomenon that defies simple explanation. That my friend, is the real Nod.In political circles, the Nod has been equated to acquisition of the National ID and the Voter&rsquo;s Card. Your political engineers expect you and your kind to give them the Nod. The stakes are so high, or so they make you think, that they even threaten you with sanctions should you decline to Nod. In Migori, your bodaboda operators have been threatened with suspension if they do not give the &lsquo;Nod&rsquo;; in Muranga, your uncle cannot enjoy his favorite brown bottle without the Nod; in Vihiga, your grandmother will not receive County services without the Nod; and in Busia, your cousin is receiving four kilos of maize in exchange for the Nod. There are instruments of sovereignty that accord you the freedom to give the Nod. But what happens after you have given the Nod? Do you also have the freedom of choice or freedom from choice?Unequivocally, in today&rsquo;s Kenya, you have the freedom from choice. Hence the conditional threats above. What do you do when your neighborhood duka has run out of your favorite bag of unga? Like many of us, before you accept the alternative available, you will first try to source your favorite brand from another duka. In fact, your shopkeeper will willingly enquire on your behalf which of them has it in stock, and direct you to where you can find it. He will then proceed to apologize profusely for not satisfying your expectation. He will go further to promise you that he will have it in stock as soon as possible. Do you know why he goes to all this length of trouble? Because you have the freedom to choose whether to buy the unga from his duka or from his competitor. His primary concern is to ensure that he meets your needs to secure your loyalty that in turn guarantees him profits. Ultimately, you both win. So who wins when you are whipped to give the political Nod and vote for a prescribed individual?You see, with The Nod, there is no coercion. There are no incentives. There are no tyrannical edicts. There are no conditional threats. There is no ostracization. It&rsquo;s just that. A Nod. Unlike The Nod, which is free to be undertaken by all, whenever, wherever and to whoever of your kind, voter registration aka the political Nod is embodied in a straitjacket. It&rsquo;s highly regulated. Not just anyone can give the political Nod. Only those that have attained a certain age, and are labelled as subjects of a certain nation can give the Nod. The regulation extends to the jurisdiction where the Nod is deemed valid, and the timing spelled out by the regulator. And only then, after you exhibit certain permissible instruments of identification.By extension, the political Nod is then coercively extracted from you. Resultantly, undue influence diminishes your freedom and responsibility. This is a violation of your much acclaimed rights. However, do not be too quick to point a finger at the coercer. As R. Nozick will inform you, coercion is explicitly dependent on the coercee&rsquo;s choice to take or not to take a specific action in light of the coercer&rsquo;s proposal. You, the coercee, should be more concerned on how you are or will be affected by this political Nod coercion, rather than what the coercer does. And what he (coercer) requires for him to coerce you successfully. That is your willingness.The conditional threats may make you feel like you have no choice. However, in your moments of sanity, you need to have an honest conference with yourself and interrogate whether it actually means that you are literally unable to choose, or opting otherwise would be contrary to practical reason (Fowler). You will be reminded many times over that your country is a decentralized economy and a democracy. In essence, what they are telling you is that no group of people should centrally plan your needs and desires for you, or impose their political inclination on you. If they did, then that would be socialism.To a large extent, you make personal choices every day. What to eat, what to wear, where to go and who to love. Whether you liberally make these choices, or you are on auto-pilot responding to mis-engineered stimuli, is a discussion we will have another day. So, if you will not advocate for central planning in your private daily choices, why do you feel you have no choice in your political options?They may have succeeded for now in coercing you to give the political Nod. But will you also allow them to coerce you on your ballot choice? Which do you choose this day, freedom of choice or freedom from choice?Ms. Susan MugwePolitical Economistsmugwe@gmail.com