Jubilee leaders have criticised the opposition for plotting to resume mass action calls in protest over the controversial amendments of election laws.The leaders urged Kenyans to avoid falling prey to Cord leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s schemes, which, they said, might lead to a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence that left more than 1,000 Kenyans dead and hundreds of thousands displaced.They spoke on Friday in Wamwangi Primary School, Gatundu South, during the funeral service of MP Moses Kuria&rsquo;s elder brother Charles Regeru. Led by Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, the leaders said Kenya deserves a peaceful election as was the case in 2013.&ldquo;We fought against mass action in 2013 and chose consultation and compromise. We all know calls for mass action lead to tension, confrontation and conflict, which lead to deaths. We should, therefore, focus on mass voter registration, instead,&rdquo; Wamalwa said.Kiambu woman representative Annah Nyokabi said digital systems can&rsquo;t exist without a manual backup because they are likely to fail.Her sentiments were echoed by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungw&rsquo;a and Thika Town MP Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a. Other leaders present included Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu, Ruiru MP Esther Gathogo and Ol Jororok MP JM Waiganjo.Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo rubbished Opposition claims that Jubilee is amending the election laws to rig the August 8 poll. He said the changes are meant to provide an alternative mechanism to ensure a smooth election. &ldquo;We are confident of winning with a landslide. Our calls for changes are only meant to provide an alternative mechanism to ensure politics proceed well. We do not need extra favours as we have God&rsquo;s favour,&rdquo; he said. Energy PS Joseph Njoroge said as an engineer, he knows technology can fail and those saying otherwise are lying. Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a urged Kenyans to pray for Raila, saying instead of commemorating the death of his eldest son Fidel Odinga, the former PM is planning mass action. She accused Raila of lacking focus. Kuria said Raila&rsquo;s words are mere rhetoric which shall not translate into action. &ldquo;I talked with him recently. He said he is just issuing empty threats,&rdquo; he said.