I was actually at this event. It was entertaining, although there was an element of rowdiness among some youths, mainly in the car park. Some party groups were more exuberant than others.But that should not take away the more important point: Which is that it was a good exercise, insofar as it was the first step toward a very diffident goal &ndash; Opposition unity.Of course there were those who had hoped to see the single Presidential candidate of the joint Opposition announced. This did not happen. Indeed, that was not the objective of the meeting. The intention was just to agree on the way forward and give the impression that the Opposition leaders were united without committing anyone to anything. There was no intention of coming to a binding agreement on the candidate.Still, there were indications of what the contest will eventually boil down to: It is likely to be a contest between former VP Kalonzo Musyoka and former PM Raila Odinga.Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi was of course very happy, as this was his idea &ndash; the creation of NASA. The fact that this meeting was taking place under the umbrella of NASA is a credit to Musalia.And it seems that what he is really doing is building a base for the 2022 election. He seriously does not expect to be the flagbearer this year.Moses Wetag&rsquo;ula, the Ford-K leader, looks as though he was using the occasion to make a &ldquo;polite concession&rdquo; to Musalia&rsquo;s leadership in Western Kenya. If so, then he did a pretty good job. That is the way it appeared.Musalia is the one who spoke first, maybe because the event was his. en he was followed by Wetang&rsquo;ula. Now these two have been struggling for influence in the Western vote region. So, for Wetang&rsquo;ula to be present in what was essentially a Mudavadi event really means that he is willing to concede.Nick Salat, the Kanu secretary general, was there to represent Gideon Moi, because the Senator from Baringo could not appear in person. His presence would have been considered to reflect his father&rsquo;s stand.Gideon and his father have no problem with President Uhuru Kenyatta: Their beef is with William Ruto, the Deputy President.The Jubilee government was widely portrayed as a thieving entity.This is something JP ought to consider responding to at their big event at Kasarani tomorrow. Munene teaches International Relations at USIU