There are those who want to supplant Evans Kidero because the Nairobi governor perch is among the most prestigious elected positions in Kenya. That is the glory part of it.In general, being governor is very powerful nowadays. And Nairobi is the richest and most powerful county in Kenya. So being governor of Nairobi is not a small job.There are those who want Nairobi to be a proving ground for higher things. And it is in this category that I would put Peter Kenneth. He desires to be governor of Nairobi in order to prove his mettle.The idea here is to do a pretty good job of this, so that if in future people look for &ldquo;presidential timber&rdquo;, they can look at you and say, &ldquo;Yes. We have seen what this person can do.&rdquo;This would explain why Kenneth would prefer to be governor of Nairobi and not somewhere else. Nairobi would be a far better stepping stone for someone who has already shown presidential ambitions. If he can successfully handle the management of Nairobi county, then he can handle the running of Kenya.Now I know there are those who say that Kenyan voting is so tribal that how well you have performed in a previous office may not matter at all: But in my view that is not entirely true.There is a large aspect of ethnic affiliation and ethnic identity in all Kenyan elections. People do consider that when they vote.But candidates do not win elections purely on account of their ethnic affiliation. They win because they appeal to as many people as possible &ndash; a broad spectrum of voters. That is how Uhuru Kenyatta won. That is how Mwai Kibaki won. And that is how Kanu won in 1961 and in 1963.If that were not the case, then there is no reason why Kanu should have won. Because their rivals in Kadu were supposedly representative of &ldquo;everybody else&rdquo;, and Kanu was supposedly just Kikuyus and Luos. And given the demographics of the time, if you combined all Luos and all Kikuyus, they could hardly add up to 30% of the population. And as such there is no way they could have won.So the voters actually do consider what kind of person they are voting for, and what this person can deliver &ndash; not just what tribe the candidate belongs to.