Walk up to any Kenyan adult on the street, ask what they think about entertainment comic books, and you&rsquo;ll probably get one of the following responses: comic books are for children, comic books are a foreign concept, or comic books are about superheroes who don&rsquo;t exist. These views, though widely held, are not entirely true.A comic book, also referred to as a graphic novel, is a medium in the same way books are, and film. As such, there are comics for adult readers, comics for children, and comics for all other ages in between. Comics also come in varying art styles, covering a variety of genres, from crime, fantasy, romance, science fiction, horror, the list goes on. And thus, comics aren&rsquo;t just for children, and they&rsquo;re not only about superheroes.As for comics being foreign, it is true a large number of the titles you&rsquo;ll find sold in Kenya are foreign, but there are also a number of local entertainment comics created and published by local artists and writers. But before we go local, let&rsquo;s take a quick worldwide view of the comic book industry; the higher status they enjoy outside our borders, and the reason for their continuing growth in popularity. ART MEETS LITERATUREIn Europe, comics are considered both an art form and a literary style. You&rsquo;ll find them in libraries and book shops. In Japan, where they&rsquo;re known as Manga, everyone, regardless of age or gender, reads comics. And in America, comic books are, and have been, a source of story material for movies and television, which in turn has given rise to multibillion dollar industries that include video games and merchandise.The growth in comic books elsewhere in the world is not an indulgence. Comics are increasingly moving into the mainstream because images and pictures, rather than text only, are becoming the most effective way to tell a story in a digital world saturated with information. In today&rsquo;s world, people want a whole story, but in a harried world chock-full of news, messages and data, attention is spread thin, and there isn&rsquo;t enough time to read a novel.This development in the way the world communicates, and the worldwide explosion of interest in comic books, has slowly stretched to our own shores and seen a growth in interest for Kenyan entertainment comic books. One pointer to this growing interest is the emergence of comic book conventions right here in Kenya. Between 2014 and August 2016, for instance, there have been six such expos in Nairobi, where local comic book creators exhibited their work. More than 8,000 people from across all ages attended these conventions. Not only is interest in Kenyan entertainment comics growing, ours is a burgeoning comic book industry well-placed to take advantage of a visual medium far cheaper to produce at high quality than film. We already have the workforce in the comic book artist already creating their own content, and in the large talent pool of potential comic book artists whose urban artwork we see on matatus, walls and online.We also have stories. Combine this with the accessibility of comic books as a medium and an opportunity arises to tell plot-driven stories from Kenya to a worldwide audience. DIGITAL PUBLISHINGA big challenge facing Kenyan comics, however, is the absence of local publishers for entertainment comics. This has led to comic book creators having to dig into their own pockets to publish and distribute. But with limited resources, their reach into a wider Kenyan mass market can only extend so far. To overcome this challenge, some comic book creators have turned to online platforms to publish. The only problem here is that even though 65 per cent of Kenyans use the internet, according to The Connected Consumer Survey, 2016, hardly anyone uses it to buy e-books. Overall, Kenyan entertainment comics, both in the past and in the present, continue to have considerable difficulty gaining a foothold in the Kenyan mainstream book market. This, however, hasn&rsquo;t stopped comic book creators from creating and putting their work out on display. And supported by an avid Kenyan comic book readership, they&rsquo;re steadily drawing attention to Kenyan entertainment comic books.But there is a lingering question.As the world increasingly turns to comic books for stories, an industry that contributes billions of dollars in creative economies elsewhere in the world, are we in Kenya missing the potential in entertainment comics?Is an opportunity being squandered to get Kenyan entertainment stories out to the world?