IS Governor Evans Kidero&rsquo;s Communications Director Walter Mong&rsquo;are sabotaging his work ahead of the August polls? Word has it that Mong&rsquo;are, alias Nyambane, has become a &ldquo;Jubilee mole&rdquo; working very hard to disrupt his boss&rsquo;s activities. Corridors has been told that Mong&rsquo;are, the custodian of Kidero&rsquo;s public address and media coverage equipment, last Saturday locked the equipment in his own house and went missing. Kidero was supposed to use the equipment at a public function and his communication team was forced to hire other equipment. The team was also forced to borrow clips of Kidero&rsquo;s address from freelancers. It is said Nyambane was later in the afternoon spotted sharing a drink with State House Digital Communications Director Dennis Itumbi at G-Port, Yaya Centre. ***** A commissioner of the National Land Commission has become the centre of the latest network of corruption at Ardhi House. The individual is alleged to be receiving millions of shillings in bribes to award fresh leases to new applicants as opposed to renewing expired leases of the previous owners. The commissioner has been linked to the recent cases of cruel demolition of houses and eviction of previous owners whose attempts to renew their leases have been frustrated by the commission. Victims of these heinous schemes are now threatening to report the commissioner&rsquo;s dealings to the anti- corruption commission. They also threaten to expose the man&rsquo;s underhand dealings after he failed to deliver on some of the promises he made. Corridors has it that it is just a matter of time before this Lord of Corruption at the NLC is exposed. ***** Only hours after the sons of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha and businessman Ali Punjani and Indian national Vijaygiri Goswami fought at a club in Nyali, Mombasa, on New Year&rsquo;s day, something extraordinary happened. One of the parties involved in the fight is said to have met a senior government official and an adviser to a top Jubilee operative at a popular club in Mombasa. Corridors has it that money changed hands to seek protection from the state. However, the meeting has left many concerned security agents wondering what the officials were discussing with men accused of drug trafficking. &ldquo;We are shocked because this shows some government officials are protecting these people,&rdquo; an officer was heard lamenting.