Micro and small-sized enterprises may be struggling to secure funds from commercial banks following rate caps slapped on loans last September, the Kenya Bankers Association has said. The Banking (Amendment) Act 2016, enforced on September 14 last year, requires banks to charge a maximum of four percentage points above the prevailing 10 per cent Central Bank Rate (14 per cent). The minimum interest on fixed-term deposits was fixed at 70 per cent of the CBR (seven per cent), further eating into profit margins of the lenders. &ldquo;We have noted that the interest rates controls may have had an adverse impact on micro and small businesses in terms of loan approvals and disbursements," KBA director for marketing and communications Nuru Mugambi said via an email. Banks had on August 10 pledged to set aside at least a percentage of their total loan portfolios for lending to the micro and small businesses at preferential rates under an industry-led programme, Inuka. KBA CEO Habil Olaka had insisted the implementation of the programme, which included a Sh100 million capacity building kitty, will go on even in the rate cap regime. The technical assistance programme was to, among others, help the targeted firms build bankable business proposals for funding. &ldquo;In light of the capping of interest rates, the Inuka SME programme objective of enabling access to cheaper loans will now focus on capacity building to enable access to finance,&rdquo; Mugambi said. &ldquo;We are considering how best the Inuka SME programme will support this market segment in this new environment.&rdquo; Analysts have projected the economy will expand at a slower pace this year than an estimated 5.9 per cent last year, largely due to a slower growth in loans to the private sector, which is dominated by the micro and small-sized enterprises. &ldquo;Although Parliament passed laws capping interest rates, the expected benefits have not trickled down to the public and businesses,&rdquo; Mentoria Consulting's chief economist Ken Gichinga said in an outlook report on January 10. &ldquo;The inability by businesses to have access to traditional credit from banks sets the stage for a dramatic shift to alternative sources of funding such as private equity.&rdquo; Latest data from the Central Bank of Kenya indicate credit to the private sector grew by 4.8 per cent year-on-year in October last sector &ndash; the lowest since June 2008 when investments were still recovering from 2007-08 post-election violence. The uptake of loans has been declining since December 2015 when it was at 19.7 per cent.