Kanu&rsquo;s flip-flopping has raised concerns the party might back President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection.The party has been sending mixed signals about its link with the opposition in the proposed National Super Alliance, NASA.Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has been campaigning vigorously in parts of the Rift Valley against the reelection of Jubilee, indicating his possible willingness to work with NASA.However, last week, Moi joined Jubilee senators to pass controversial election laws, which Cord says will be used to rig the polls.Moi&rsquo;s crossover on that vote shocked the opposition, which suffered a major blow as it had sought to block the legislation. The vote came shortly after the senator condemned the laws, telling the Senate plenary to &ldquo;watch my vote.&rdquo;Analysts say Uhuru and Moi are buddies. They say the son of the Kenya&rsquo;s second President has long-term ambitions to succeed Uhuru &mdash; not to block his reelection in August.Moi&rsquo;s family is planning to counter Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s run for the presidency in 2022.&ldquo;What Moi is doing is preparing the ground to succeed Uhuru as President in 2022. His ambitions have set him against Ruto, who harbours the same dreams,&rdquo; political analyst Richard Bukea said.West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo, who voted against the Bill on the Second Reading but supported it on Third Reading, said Kanu is playing the role of a mediator in stabilising the country.&ldquo;Kanu is the stone the builders Jubilee and Cord rejected, which has now become the cornerstone,&rdquo; he said. Lonyangapuo said the independence party does not align itself with either Jubilee or Cord.&ldquo;Kanu is working for peace, love and unity. We help stick the nation together, when political temperatures go high,&rdquo; he said.Asked whether Kanu will attend Wednesday&rsquo;s Cord meeting at the Bomas of Kenya, Lonyangapuo said it is too early for the party to forge an alliance with any coalition.&ldquo;We wish those attending well. [But] if we attend, we would lose our mediating role. We are neutral for now,&rdquo; he said.Last December, the Star reported Uhuru phoned Moi and urged him to stay away from NASA. A broad and united opposition could pose a serious threat to Uhuru at the polls. Moi apparently agreed to keep his distance.