MPs have overwhelmingly approved the nomination of former ACK archbishop Eliud Wabukala as new EACC chairman.The legislators said on Tuesday that they will pray for Wabukala, whom they noted would set good examples and pray during crises."Wabukala will use his wisdom as the EACC chairman and even start his meetings with prayers," said National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale.But Duale said at Parliament buildings that the former Archbishop should not treat the EACC as a religious organisation."He is going to fight corruption... I hope he will not make us have another motion to approve his conduct," he said.Minority leader Francis Nyenze said Wabukala should not be ignored as he is a man of God who will work hard to fight corruption."Let us not doubt whether Wabukala is going to do a good job. Let us pray and stand with him," he said.Kimilili MP Suleiman Murunga said the ex-Archbishop would put his life at risk by fighting for Kenyans at the EACC."We are watching out for the drug barons. I know Wabukala will pray for them and that they will repent their sins," he said, adding Wabukala was his man of choice.Read: State closing in on drug-dealer politicians, Kiraithe warnsNandi MP Zipporah Kering said "sleeps, wakes up and eats with the Bible"."Wabukala is allergic to corruption. He has seen a lot and he is going to clean that sector. From the records, i stand to support and say that his report is straight and clean," she said.Read: MPs endorse Chebukati, Wabukala for top IEBC, EACC jobsUgunja MP Opiyo Wandayi supported Wabukala but he might be influenced negatively."I agree that Wabukala is equal to the task and can perform the job. What I do not agree with is that Wabukala will not be any better than his predecessor," he said.Wandayi said the predecessors were men of good stature but failed over lack of demonstrated political will."We want 'leadership from the front' starting with the President. He must deal with corrupt elements in the ministries. It must also be understood that the EACC is independent," he said.Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo said the MPs should not lie to Wabukala about praying for him to win the war on corruption."We will never fight corruption unless we dissolve the secretariat of the EACC. That is where the problem is," he said. "We cannot tell Wabukala to go and pray. We must help him."Noting that Jubilee is "enjoying and swimming in corruption", Midiwo said commission CEO Halakhe Waqo and deputy Michael Mubea must be sacked."Present a law that will kick the EACC secretariat out," he said.The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee earlier endorsed Wabukala's nomination saying he was qualified and sufficiently experienced to lead the anti-graft commission.Members said he exhibited impressive knowledge of topical issues and an understanding of administration and management principles.Wabukala now awaits swearing-in.Read: Eliud Wabukala among six shortlisted for EACC chairpersonAlso read: Tough job awaits Wabukala in handling high-profile cases