Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett yesterday said two million Kenyans could be facing hunger by July, up from the current 1.5 million. He said the ministry is spending Sh5.4 billion in the second phase of the drought intervention programme to feed hungry citizens.&#8203; The CS said, however, the situation has not reached an alarming level.&ldquo;The third phase, which begins from May to July, will cost Sh7 billion. The first phase started in November until January and cost Sh5.4 billion,&rdquo; Bett said.He spoke in Mombasa yesterday while flagging off the distribution of subsidised fertiliser at the Export Trading Group premises. Bett said the government has put in place a raft of measures to curb massive theft of fertiliser. He said the fertiliser has significantly reduced the cost of production. The CS said previously, the commodity was diverted to unintended persons en-route to the National Cereals and Produce Board depots. Bett said most of it ended up in the stores of middlemen, who in turn inflated the retail prices.He said tracking devices have been fitted on all fertiliser bags. Bett said the bags will have special security features that cannot be tampered with.The CS said ministry officials, NCPB and suppliers will have passwords of the tracking devices to avoid diversion of goods. &ldquo;Last year, we handled three isolated cases in Nakuru, Meru and Nandi. The government did not lose. Documentation indicated the fertiliser was received elsewhere,&rdquo; he said.This meant there was the possibility that the fertiliser was sold to a middleman, who in turn inflated prices, further hurting farmers.The CS said fertiliser will no longer be packaged at the Port of Mombasa. &ldquo;The government will only take ownership of the commodity once it has bee&#8203;n&#8203; packaged at the warehouse of the supplier. This will have considerably reduced the cost incurred at the port,&rdquo; he said.Bett said by Friday, the ministry will decide whether to import maize or not. He said data shows many farmers and businessmen are hoarding maize in anticipation.The CS said maize prices have gone up as a result. He said an inter-agency team has been formed to monitor the retail prices of maize. &ldquo;We have set a standard price of Sh3,000 for a bag of maize. We are informed some retailers are selling it for up to Sh3,400,&rdquo; Bett said. Two kilos of maize flour will not go beyond Sh120, he said.