ODM is banking on promising youthful leaders to deliver seats in Kisii county following the defection of ex-stalwarts. National treasurer Timothy Bosire said the party is pleasantly overwhelmed by the number of aspirants seeking the ticket for various seats.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m impressed that several youthful leaders have also applied and I wish to encourage more to take up leadership positions. It is time tainted leaders gave way,&rdquo; the Kitutu Masaba MP said.Some of the leaders who have defected include Kisii Senator Chris Obure, Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi.&ldquo;The move is insignificant. It will only cause temporary disturbance because voters are more informed and will make the right decisions in August,&rdquo; Bosire said.Youthful Kitutu Chache North parliamentary aspirant Anthony Kibagendi said, &ldquo;Gusii region is witnessing a generational revolution. We shall take over and transform the region.&rdquo;Kibagendi will compete for the ODM ticket with newcomer Andrew Maubi, the incumbent Richard Onyonka and former Kisii Mayor Samuel Omwando.In neighbouring Kitutu Chache North constituency, ODM will bank on Elijah Kombo, Migosi Ogamba, Stephen Nyarangi and Timothy Arege to wrest the seat from Jimmy Angwenyi.In Bomachoge Borabu, ODM is likely to field Nairobi Environment executive Peter Kimori to face off with Jubilee&rsquo;s Joel Onyancha.Sylvanus Osoro is another serious contender from South Mugirango. The constituency will have a new MP as the incumbent Manson Nyamweya seeks the governor&rsquo;s seat.The entry of Jeremiah Matoke in the Bomachoge Chache race will complicate matters for MP Simon Ogari. Matoke is seen as one of the favourites to clinch the ODM ticket.&ldquo;Bomachoge Chache remains one of the poorest constituencies in Kisii because of poor leadership. I&rsquo;m confident of winning the ODM ticket and eventually the parliamentary seat. We need change,&rdquo; Matoke said.On Sunday, former Bonchari MP Charles Onyancha and some aspirants quit the Orange party and joined the Kenya National Congress.Others who defected were Bobasi parliamentary aspirant Samuel Mogusu and Bernard Moseti, who will run for the Nyaribari Masaba seat. They were received by party leader South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya.&ldquo;I believe that KNC genuinely represents the interests of the county&rsquo;s residents and will be going all out to market and popularise itself throughout the region,&rdquo; Bernard Moseti said.Nyamweya said, &ldquo;With these new members, the party is growing from strength to strength. We are steadily growing into a powerful movement that will change the face of regional politics.&rdquo;