The ban on Ugandan chickens and eggs could be lifted this week, Agriculture ministry officials have said.Agriculture CS Willy Bett did not confirm when the ban will be lifted, but some officials claimed it could be as early as this week. Kenya imposed the ban two weeks ago after a highly infectious strain of bird flu was reported in Uganda. Uganda says it has contained the outbreak, adding that most farms that export eggs to Kenya are located more than 10km from the quarantined area. Bett said a team of experts from Kenya and Uganda are doing a risk assessment to determine the chances of the disease spreading. The team will table its report this week. &ldquo;Any further decision will therefore be based on the team&rsquo;s report. I am happy both parties acknowledged the danger posed by the disease and the need to work closely in arresting its spread,&rdquo; Bett said. The CS led a team from the ministry to Uganda last Saturday and met President Yoweri Museveni. Bett was joined by Livestock PS Andrew Tuimur and Kenya&rsquo;s High commissioner to Uganda Geoffrey Okanga.&ldquo;We visited one of the largest poultry farms in the Matugga area in Uganda to inspect the measures being put in place by Uganda to deal with the disease,&rdquo; Bett said. Kenya, Rwanda and some European countries imposed a temporary ban on poultry imports &mdash; live chickens, chicks, eggs and meat &mdash; from Uganda to reduce the possibility of the disease spreading. Ugandan Agriculture minister Vincent Ssempijja urged Kenya and other neighboring countries not to worry about bird flu, saying it was under control. &ldquo;Fortunately, these farms are located far away from the 10km quarantine radius, and can produce safe poultry and poultry products for local and export markets,&rdquo; he said. Ssempijja said the disease was confirmed in seven wild migratory birds, five domestic ducks and one chicken. &ldquo;Wakiso district has reported no cases in domestic birds, but the Uganda Wildlife Authority estimates about 950 white winged black tern migratory birds have died in the district so far,&rdquo; Ssempijja said.