Police in Bungoma yesterday summoned leaders of the touts and taxi operators of the Bungoma bus stage to question them on why they blocked Deputy President William Ruto from addressing his rally. Speaking to the Star at the Bungoma police station, Osman Simiyu, the touts’ chairman, said they were summoned by the police. “Letters were sent to eight of us who comprise the leadership of the bus park, followed by a phone call from the OCPD to appear without fail,” Simiyu said. He said on questioning why they were summoned, the touts were told it was a security meeting to address the unfortunate incident on Monday when Ruto toured Bungoma. The DP, who was scheduled to hold a series of rallies on voter sensitisation, was forced to cancel a rally scheduled at the Bungoma bus spark and use an alternative route after the youth blocked the road and chanting anti-Jubilee songs. By press time, the bus park leaders were still meeting the county security team chaired by deputy county commissioner George Lugo, who told journalists to leave the room. Sources told the Star the commissioner read the youth leaders the riot act, saying they will deal with any person involved in political violence and anarchy. “This should be the last time we hear about such un unfortunate incident. Every politician should be allowed to sell his manifesto,” Lugo is reported to have said. The commissioner is said to have instructed the youth leaders to provide the names of all members together with their personal details. Meanwhile, sources close to Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka told the Star Ruto will be returning to Bungoma tomorrow. “We are planning to have him back to commission two roads that have been funded by the county,” the source said. Lusaka said the DP did not meet any resistance in Bungoma, adding that Ruto is popular in Bungoma town. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Lusaka said the youth who were shouting at the Bungoma bus stage had done so after realising the DP was not coming to address them. “The youth have, in fact, told me the reason they caused all that drama is because they were looking forward to meeting him,” he said. The governor said nobody will be intimidated or apprehended because of the incident, while at the same time calling on youth to exercise political tolerance. “We are headed towards an election and typical of our nature, we will be welcoming every political side to sell its manifesto,” Lusaka said. Bungoma ODM secretary Majimbo Okumu said as a coalition they abhor violence and political intolerance. “We are calling upon our youth not to fight anybody but wait to exercise their power on the day of voting,” he said.