KIAMBU Governor William Kabogo seems to have scored a big one for what politicians from the county are describing as his mature behaviour during the Jubilee smart card launch by President Uhuru Kenyatta. While his main rival Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu decided to bring Kiambu politics to the venue, Kabogo played it cool and clearly kept off Kiambu politics. This has seen even some of the politicians who have in the past opposed him in Kiambu praise him. One of them described Kabogo as a sober and mature politician while Waititu has been accused of playing village politics.  ****** BEING an election year, it seems everyone who is trying to make ends meet can easily get away with many things. For instance, apart from hawkers crowding the streets of Nairobi, they have also blocked the Ngara flyover. The pedestrians find it hard accessing either side of the road. Criminals have also taken advantage of the crowded bridge. Worse, the bridge is partly closed by a metal fence that separates the bus terminus and highway, which in case of an emergency would result in a stampede. The matatus have also taken advantage of the chaotic situation to block the bridge while waiting for customers.  ****** WHO is instructing DCI officers at the Lang'ata police station to harass and extort money from a Briton with Kenyan origins? Although the man is not directly linked to any wrongdoing, the DCI detectives from Lang'ata have twice arrested and detained him at the station. All the accusations are linked to companies not registered in his name. The detectives have ignored evidence that the accuser has been paid and continuously demand money menaces from the the frightened Briton, who is scared witless. The Briton now wants Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and DCI boss Muhoro Ndegwa to rein in their too greedy juniors.  ****** IS Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa planning to join the Jubilee Party? We are told that the vocal Ford Kenya MP joined Deputy President William Ruto’s convoy when the DP toured the area as he urged Trans Nzoia county residents to register to vote. Wamalwa, a critic of the Jubilee administration, was allowed to address residents, and when he spoke he praised Jubilee, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto for developing the area.  