Something odd is taking place in the Mt Kenya region, otherwise a strong Jubilee zone. A silent rebellion is festering beneath the surface. There are strong undercurrents of dissatisfaction. Curiously, it is not limited to a particular county. There are murmurs in Kirinyaga, Embu, Murang&rsquo;a, Meru, Nyeri, Nyandarua and parts of Kiambu.Jubilee point men have drawn political swords against each another in what could lead to an unprecedented implosion. Kiraitu Murungi and Peter Munya are involved in the most destructive political duel ever witnessed in the history of Meru politics. They divided the people of Meru down the middle by creating fierce divisions amongst the Imenti, Tigania and Igembe sub-tribes. The intriguing thing is that all this is being propagated by senior members of the Jubilee Party, the Senator, against the incumbent governor. The reelection of these two leaders in their current positions was almost a done deal.This duel flies in the face of an MoU among the three Ameru sub-tribes, whereupon it was agreed a Senator be elected from the Imenti (Kiraitu) and the Governor (Munya) and Deputy (Muriungi) from the Tigania and Igembe sub-tribes respectively. The arrangement worked very well until now. The senator in opposing the governor, which goes against the letter and spirit of the MoU. This betrayal is causing bitterness and bad blood amongst the clans of the Ameru. It goes without saying that both men have an inalienable constitutional right to seek any political office in the country. However, reneging on a community MoU has some adverse consequences.Similar scenarios are playing out in Embu where Senator Lenny Kivuti is determined to oust Governor Martin Wambora. In Murang&rsquo;a, Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau is opposing fellow Jubilee member Governor Mwangi wa Iria. Former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Kimemia is preparing to run against Nyandarua Governor Daniel Waithaka whilst in Kiambu, Jubilee MP Ferdinand Waititu of Kabete and presidential advisor James Nyoro have their political guns trained on Governor William Kabogo. In Kirinyaga, Governor James Ndathi is under siege from a combined force of female leaders Anne Waiguru and Martha Karua. Tharaka Nithi Governor Samuel Ragwa is fighting the battle of his political life with Chuka Igamba Ng&rsquo;ombe MP Muthomi Njuki.In a nutshell, all Jubilee governors in Central face stiff internal opposition. Is this part of the Jubilee Party strategy or a sign of poor management? Does it not strengthen their opponents from other parties when their own divide the vote almost equally? Why did the party not whip its members into one line? Even advanced democracies in Europe and America are careful to avoid wholesale internal division. What does it portend for the future of the party, and what will be its final effect on the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta? Who is asleep on the job within the Jubilee Secretariat? One doesn&rsquo;t have to be a prophet or fortune teller to foretell what awaits the Jubilee Party in August, unless they swiftly alter course. There are already ominous signs of major internal political fallout after nominations. Elections are a highly emotive issue and if supporters of a particular candidate sense injustice, partiality or iniquity they will decline to campaign or vote for the nominated candidate, leading to voter apathy of at least 33 per cent of the registered voters at the lower scale or 50 per cent at the higher scale. The biggest loser in this unnecessary political fiasco, I state with trepidation, will be President Uhuru.