Singer Charles Njagua Kanyi aka Jaguar has resigned from his post as a director at the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse.He tendered his resignation earlier this morning citing that he did so due to personal issues.Jaguar and Mututho 'declined Sh100 million bribe' &ldquo;I would like to tender my resignation as a Board Member of the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (NACADA) effective immediately due to personal reasons. Serving as a NACADA Board Member has been a fulfilling learning experience and deeply appreciate all the cooperation from the Board, management and staff in the campaign against alcohol and drug abuse. Thank you for the privilege to serve Kenyans,&rdquo; he wrote.The Kigeugeu hit maker, a close ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta, was appointed as a board member at the drug-fighting agency in April 2015 and immediately sparked speculations that he was warming up to join politics.Sonko endorses Jaguar for Starehe parliamentary seatIn the recent past, he has been traversing the city, especially the slums, doing lots of charity work. This has only fired up speculations that the singer has been setting himself up to contest for the Nairobi&rsquo;s Starehe Constituency parliamentary seat on a Jubilee ticket. If this is so, he will have to upstage the incumbent and powerful city politician, Maina Kamanda, at the Jubilee Party primaries. Flamboyant city businessman Steve Mbogo is also eyeing the seat on an ODM ticket. There have been unconfirmed rumours that Jaguar has been proposed to become President Uhuru&rsquo;s chief campaigner for the youth.When reached for comment, however, Jaguar chose not to reveal his next move. &ldquo;Yes I resigned today so as to attend to other matters. Just know that for now,&rdquo; he said on phone.Jaguar bails out woman with heart conditionLast week, a poster doing rounds on social media depicted the artiste as an aspirant for the said seat. He, however, denied that he was indeed running for the political post. He said, &ldquo;I am not the one who made those posters. Please do not put them up. I am a director. Do not include me in political issues.&rdquo; Well, all we can do is wait and see.[PHOTOS] This is how Jaguar spent his Jubilee Party launch performance fee