In May 2008, I found myself in the summer heat of Washington DC. This was after the disputed 2007 polls, in which I had been a youthful and na&iuml;ve player in the North Rift. This was my second sojourn in the US, following my previous stay as an undergraduate student in Pennsylvania, on a fellowship at a conservative think-tank. This was during President George W Bush administration.In classrooms, field trips, public testimonies and media appearances, I saw first-hand the contested nature of the American life, and how its varied notions of public policy often takes shape. At about that time, a young Barack Obama was taking the US with a storm. Whereas my Republican friends were pushing for for linear government, ordered liberty, a bullish foreign policy and traditional family values, the Kenyan-American was seeking a bigger government, a restrained foreign policy and a more nuanced vision of the family. His speech on race relations in Philadelphia, following incendiary remarks from Jeremiah Wright &mdash; his pastor &mdash; might, just perhaps, belong to the ages. In the cadence of an African-American preacher, Obama moved the nation with soaring rhetoric, before crashing the Hillary Clinton machinery in the Democratic Party and, in that historic November, the Republican Party. Minorities of all shades found immense inspiration in his victory, with some pundits celebrating the prophetic vision of a post-racial presidency in both the movie Head of State and Aaron Sorkin&rsquo;s much-storied television series, The West Wing. To have been in Washingiton during the campaigns, Election Night that November and the inauguration in January 2009 felt historic. Although the last two events found me on fellowship at two other conservative think-tanks, the all-American feeling was considerably widespread, perhaps only comparable to our own euphoric moment when Mwai Kibaki won in 2002. The one thing I remember the most from the early months of the first Obama administration was how it grappled with the 2008-09 financial crisis. I shudder to imagine how I would have pulled through that season without the bi-weekly cheques of gracious employers, and the generous support of friends. Wall Street was in shambles, but the milk of human kindness kept me going, and my trips to the Bank of America more hopeful. Apart from our post-election violence in 2007-08, perhaps no other major event has had a more personal impact on my worldview. One story will particularly remain etched on my mind. Two weeks after the elections, during which he had dominated the media with speculations about his association with United States President-elect Barack Obama, Weather Underground veteran Bill Ayers took to the lecture circuit. Obama allegedly launched his 2004 campaign for the US Senate in Ayers&rsquo; living room, and had served on education boards with him in Chicago. At Georgetown Law one evening, the University of Illinois professor of education revisited his radical past, suggesting that his behaviour and actions in the 1960s may have been &ldquo;illegal and extreme&rdquo; but not terrorist. What he had billed to be a talk about wrongful convictions and their place in conversations on social justice turned into a post-mortem on his politics and association with Obama. &ldquo;I would love to be remembered as a good father, a good grandfather. The Associated Press should write that if it is here,&rdquo; he said, while responding to questions from nearly 50 students of law, whom he asked to help bring closure to debate about the 1960s. As a journalist, it was priceless watching these aftershocks of the election. It would be equally priceless to later cover Obama as he addressed the Kenyan nation at the Safaricom International Stadium in Kasarani, Nairobi, on his visit last year. Of such moments, is the rough draft of history made. In the new Donald Trump era, we can only wait to see what the next four &mdash; if not eight years &mdash; might bring. The writer is Nyandarua county&rsquo;s director of communication and public relations. The views expressed here are his own. (@JesseMasai)