Kiambu Governor William Kabogo on Sunday led top Central Kenya leaders to DP William Ruto&rsquo;s home in Sugoi, Eldoret. They pledged that the Kikuyu community will back Ruto to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022.Kabogo, accompanied by several MPs, MCAs and other leaders, assured Ruto of the Kikuyu community&rsquo;s support in his 2022 presidential bid.&ldquo;2022 election will be a walkover. It&rsquo;s clear in our minds we&rsquo;ll vote for you because of your steadfast support to the President. Don&rsquo;t be worried over that. We will stand with you,&rdquo; he told the DP.Kabogo said Ruto stood his ground in 2012 and insisted that they unite when leaders met to negotiate an alliance in the runup to the March 4, 2013, general election. &ldquo;DP Ruto worked for our unity and we&rsquo;ll ensure we remain united until he wins the 2022 poll,&rdquo; he said. The delegation included Kieni MP Kanini Kega, Nairobi woman MP Rachel Shebesh and Martha Wangari.Shebesh said Uhuru will lead campaigns to have Ruto ascend to power. &ldquo;President Kenyatta himself, with our support, will campaign to ensure Ruto is elected because it&rsquo;s Ruto who worked hard to have Jubilee win in 2013,&rdquo; she said. Shebesh urged Rift Valley residents to support JP at the August 8 election, adding the party has implemented key economic reforms for the benefit of all. Kabogo said he will be at the forefront campaigning for Jubilee in 2022. A few months ago, he caused a storm when he said Ruto should not assume that Central Kenya will automatically back him, and told him to convince the community.Kabogo was roundly condemned by Ruto&rsquo;s allies, led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi. The DP later met Kabogo and said they had been long-time buddies.Ruto welcomed the delegation and said he will continue to push for the unity of Kenyans through the Jubilee Party. He said the Jubilee administration has made several strides in all sectors of the economy since it assumed office.