The veteran Star columnist and longtime Coast resident Wycliffe Muga, in his recent assessment of the life and times of the late tycoon Twahir Sheik Said (TSS), made a particularly cogent point. This is that in coastal politics you need both the Mijikenda communities and the Swahili/Arab communities to attain success.Muga&rsquo;s argument was that the Mijikemda have the numbers when it comes to voting and the Swahili/Arabs (the community to which TSS belongs) have the money. You need both money and many votes to win.While I broadly agree with Muga&rsquo;s assessment, there is one thing he failed to emphasise &ndash; that what really counts is the numbers factor. For if money mattered all that much, some of us would never have seen the inside of Parliament.Let me give you a brief history of Mijikenda politics. In the 1950s and the 1960s and very early &rsquo;70s, the Mijikenda&rsquo;s most prominent political leader was Ronald Ngala. He was elevated to this position not because he had a lot of money but because of his focus on "majimbo" government, which we have all recently come to appreciate the virtues of with the arrivial of devolution under the new constitution.After Ngala was assassinated in late 1972, despite having several Cabinet ministers from the Coast in subsequent governments, we did not again have a truly preeminent unifying political figure.But in time we got a leader even greater than Ronald Ngala, our "Mugogo" Emmanuel Karisa Maitha (now deceased) in the early 2000s. In 2002 after a long and painful political journey, Maitha rose to serve in President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s first Cabinet.Through all this, Maitha remained what he had always been, a man of modest education and modest wealth, but famously generous and willing to share what he had with his people. And Maitha was opposed every step of the way by the big money interests at the Coast; but because he had the confidence of the Mijikenda people; because he had the numbers, he emerged victorious. And won acclamation as the "Mugogo" of the entire coastal region.So the lesson here is that leading the Coast may require money but far more important is that you need to have the indigenous communities&rsquo; confidence. The use of big money may help you squeeze in once or twice, but in the end you will lose.I know this because when Maitha tragically and mysteriously died while on official government business in Germany as Tourism and Wildlife minister in August 2004, the top contenders to replace him as MP for Kisauni were myself and a newcomer to politics, one Ali Hassan Joho.In that election Joho and his family spent unbelievable sums of money. But I had something far more important and valuable than money: I had the confidence of the local Kisauni voters, many of whom while not indigenous to the Coast have lived there for more than one generation and indeed do not speak the mother tongue of their parents and grandparents.Ever since he became governor, Joho has been incredibly arrogant in his attitude towards the great majority of potential voters in Mombasa County. His arrogance towards President Uhuru Kenyatta shows you how fundamentally conceited and egotistic the man is, decidedly non-coastal traits. Power has clearly gone to his head.I have received many complaints about Joho&rsquo;s unbearable pride and vanity, with requests that I enter the race for Governor of Mombasa and restore sanity, humility, respect and the spirit of serving the indigenous communities. Joho&rsquo;s ridiculous pride and his prejudiced view of the Mijikenda will be his undoing on August 8 when I teach him a lesson that no amount of big money can buy.That is why I can say with full confidence that just as I beat Joho in the 2005 by-election for the Maitha succession in Parliament, so too in the same way will I win the race for governor. Not even all his money and what he has accumulated since 2013 can save him this time. He will lose even more badly than in 2005.