London 2012 Olympics 10,000m champion, Sally Kipyego has shifted allegiance to United States of America.Kipyego made the disclosure on her Twitter handle yesterday, saying: &ldquo;It has been 12 years and 8 days since I first landed in America. Today I became a US citizen!&rdquo;The former Kenyan, who doubled at the London Olympic Games, placed in 5,000m won by Ethiopian Meseret Defar with Kenya&rsquo;s Vivian Cheruiyot settling for silver and Tirunesh Dibaba taking bronze. Kipyego had won silver in 10,000m the previous year during the World Championships in Daegu, South Korea. The last time she competed for Kenya at a championship in 2015, Kipyego placed fifth in 10,000m at the World Championships in Beijing. She represented Kenya for the first time as a junior at the 2001 World Cross Country Championships.Elsewhere, Athletics Kenya (AK) have launched a one-month ordinary member registration in all their 16 affiliates.The national athletics governing body currently boosts of 4,120 members but are targeting 36,000. The drive started yesterday and shall end on February 28 with the final list of the associations&rsquo; members set for an end-of-March completion.Registration sub-committee chairman, Dimi Kisalu, said registration will be done at the lowest cadre of the affiliates. &ldquo;As per the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission, Kenya has 1450 wards which we will use in this registration drive,&rdquo; said Kisalu. At the regions, members will be registered at the ward level while stations will serve as the AK National Police registration centres. At AK Prisons, registration will be done at the county level while AK Universities will utilize campuses.To align themselves with the Sports Act 2013, AK president Jackson Tuwei said they will also be shifting to the ward, sub-county, county, regional and national level system going forward.Eligibility to seek membership will require one to be a Kenyan citizen, over 18 years and not convicted of misdemeanor and sentenced to imprisonment without the option of a fine. A member of another sports association is also ineligible. In addition, an individual must be free of fraud, corruption or any related offences, sexual harassment, abuse of office or any other offense touching on integrity.Registration will be a Sh500 receipted fee as well as a copy of the applicants national identity card. &ldquo;These regulations will enhance uniformity from the national office down to the wards as indicated in the national constitution 2010 and the Sports Act 2013,&rdquo; said Tuwei. &ldquo;Registration will be done on all days of the week, including weekends between 8am and 5pm.&rdquo;After the applications, the AK executive will peruse the papers and approve or decline, with those who will have made double submissions knocked out altogether.As per the guidelines, individuals who will have their applications turned down will be required to forward their appeals to the AK Arbitration Panel and if not satisfied by their decision, move to the Sports Disputes Tribunal.