Kenya Sevens rugby team and 2016 Kenyan Premier League champions headline the list of nominees for this year&rsquo;s Safaricom Sports personality of the Year Awards men&rsquo;s Team of the Year category.Shujaa won the Singapore leg of the International Rugby Board series, a first for Kenya since their debut in the world event in 1999. They stunned Fiji 30-7 to win the historic Cup final. It was also a year that saw them make the semi-finals in the Cape Town leg, quarter-finals in Hong Kong and also the last eight in the Sydney leg.They will face stiff competition from Tusker, who wrestled the Kenyan Premier League title from Gor Mahia. Apart from bagging the KPL crown, Tusker also won the GOtv Shield, for the first since 1993. It was also the first time that the Ruaraka-based side won the domestic double. The brewers beat Ulinzi Stars in the final to win the GOtv Shield.Nzoia Sugar are also in the hunt for the honours after registering the longest unbeaten run of 32 wins in the National Super League on their way to gaining promotion to the KPL. Their rise to the top started in the 2013 FKF Division One league, where they finished third in the league&rsquo;s Zone B, Group 1 to earn promotion to NSL and now have secured a place among the big boys in the KPL.The national 15s rugby team throws the spanner into the trio&rsquo;s works, having registered a sterling show in 2016. The Simbas scaled to their best ever placing in the World Rugby ranking following their comprehensive 34-10 victory over Hong Kong Dragons on August 27 at the RFUEA grounds. The Jerome Paawater&rsquo;s charges improved two places to reach a new high of 22nd.They also rallied to edge out hosts Brazil 18-17 to win the &lsquo;Cup of the Hemispheres&rsquo; duel at Est&aacute;dioOl&iacute;mpicoZer&atilde;o in Amapa on June 17. In addition, they beat regional rivals Uganda 48-10 in Kampala and 45-24 in Nairobi to reclaim Elgon Cup as well as beating Zimbabwe 61-15 and Uganda 45-24 to finish second in the Africa Cup Group 1A tournament after losing to Namibia 21-56. Butali Warriors, who lost the Kenya Hockey Premier League title to Strathmore completes the list of top five sides yearning for the coveted title.