&ldquo;HAPPY holidays fellow countrymen&hellip;next year you MUST decide which direction your country must take&hellip;let not PEACE be the guiding principle (sic)," KTN's crime reporter Dennis Onsarigo tweeted on Christmas Day.His colleague Mohammed Ali, popularly known as Moha Jicho Pevu, followed up with this post, "We are not going to the ballot to elect PEACE again. The country has peace. Whoever will want to be reelected to bring peace will be a liar. We want FREE, FAIR, CREDIBLE, VERIFIABLE and TRANSPARENT poll" (sic).These two posts resulted in a backlash on social media, with some users accusing the two of propagating violence. But there is nothing but the truth in these two posts, and, of course, not many like hearing the truth: The way it is. Louis Farrakhan famously said, &ldquo;There can be no justice without truth. And there can be no truth, unless someone rises up to tell you the truth". It is now either we deal with the truth or verify these two messengers, and later suffer the consequences.Welcoming the Rwanda Tribunal's Genocide judgment as a landmark in international law on September 2, 1998, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said, &ldquo;For there can be no healing without peace; there can be no peace without justice; and there can be no justice without respect for human rights and the rule of law&rdquo;.Unfortunately, in as much as some politicians and clerics are urging Kenyans to maintain the peace, they are not explaining what ought to be done to ensure peace is not being undone. In any case, the opposite &mdash; to breed grounds for violence in the guise of preaching peace &mdash; is what is being done.Close to a decade now, victims of the 2007-08 post-election violence are yet to get justice. Instead, the merger by William Ruto's URP and Uhuru Kenyatta's TNA to form the Jubilee Coalition blinded people to believe that the differences between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin communities were fixed, and, with that, the victims had healed. With 2022 succession politics, this appears not to be the case. We swept the dirt under the carpet to benefit the selected two.The cases at the ICC collapsed for lack of evidence due to massive interference.In fact, Presiding Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji declared a mistrial in the cases when he abandoned Deputy President William Ruto's case, saying, &ldquo;It cannot be discounted that the weaknesses in the Prosecution case might be explained by the demonstrated incidence of tainting of the trial process by way of witness interference and political meddling&rdquo;.Explaining why the Kenya cases collapsed, including Ruto's, ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said, &ldquo;We regret that due to deliberate and concerted efforts to derail this case through witness interference, the judges have been prevented from determining the guilt or innocence of the accused on the full merits of the case. What is also troubling is that the onslaught against this case has &mdash; for now &mdash; denied the victims of the 2007-08 PEV the justice they so rightly deserve&rdquo;.Established in the aftermath of the PEV, the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission was tasked with inquiring into gross violations of human rights and historical injustices that occurred in this country between Independence in 1963 and the National Accord signed in February 2008. Despite receiving the report on May 23, 2013, shortly after he assumed office, President Uhuru Kenyatta is yet to make it public, let alone implement it. At some point, Kituo Cha Sheria urged him to implement it, &ldquo;In the interest of pursuing peace, promoting access to justice and enabling reconciliation&rdquo;. That is yet to be done.This is also the case with the Ndung'u Land Commission Report that looked into land grabbing across the decades, handed over to President Mwai Kibaki in his second year in office in June 2004.The TJRC Report acknowledged lack of political will as a key challenge to reconciliation and national unity.Even after disregarding all these issues, those in power are pushing for electoral amendments that those across the political divide feel are meant to rig the 2017 elections.I am saying it for the umpteenth time. An electoral process is an alternative to violence and a means of achieving governance. Disregarding it results in violence.Electoral conflicts emerge when elections are perceived to be elitist, exclusive, unfair, unresponsive or rigged.