Kenyan schools have long worked according to the same systems and structures that were developed ages ago. The process teaches children educational necessities but somehow, has been unable to foster students with leadership skills and the know-how to not only to survive in society but prosper in the &lsquo;big bad world&rsquo; we live in. This calls for a rethink of the vision of an ideal school and a &lsquo;re-design&rsquo; of the whole structure. It needs a shift in mindset as well as execution, and here is where Franklin Covey&rsquo;s The Leader in Me Programme, recently launched in Kenya, comes in.Based on Dr Stephen Covey&rsquo;s popular book, &ldquo;7 Habits of Highly Effective People&rdquo;, the programme is premised on the notion that every child can be a leader. &ldquo;Our schools are focused on preparing our children academically that life skills have been put on the back burner. This programme offers life skills that teach our children on how to be independent and become self-sufficient,&rdquo; Raiser Resource Group CEO Ian Ng&rsquo;ethe said.What it EntailsThe programme is a whole school transformation initiative that aims to teach 21st century leadership skills. In an era where millennials receive handouts from their parents at every turn, Ian said they &ldquo;Need to be given a challenge and space to increase their own self confidence and worth.&rdquo; According to Ian, &ldquo;All potential leaders need to be proactive, inspirational, have a belief in others and a caring attitude.&rdquo; His own style of leadership embodies these factors and involves connecting, understanding and communicating with people on a deeper level.Some of these attributes are clearly lacking in the 8-4-4 syllabus, leading to workplace corruption and unethical business practices. True, we cannot turn back time, but we can shape the future to avoid a vicious cycle.The programme was created in the US by Muriel Summers, Principal of AB Combs Leadership Magnet Elementary School. In response to her community&rsquo;s experience, she approached Franklin Covey to design, develop and implement a leadership model for her school. Based on the 7 Habits as well as the Baldridge quality tools among others, the school underwent a complete turnaround, something Raiser Group hopes to achieve in Kenya.The Leader in Me programme is aligned to numerous academic standards, inclusive of a process where students are taught the necessary skills for academic success in all settings. These include critical thinking, listening, goal setting and the ability to work in group. How it worksThe prevailing notion that only a few children have unique gifts is replaced by believing that everyone has a &lsquo;genius&rsquo;, meaning, all kids are gifted in their own way and thus require proper nurturing and assistance to fully achieve their potential. Instead of pushing for just academic excellence, The Leader In Me program aims to develop the whole self, resulting in well-rounded individuals. Educators are also encouraged to empower students to take charge of their own learning process.The 8-4-4 syllabus, which replaced the 7-4-2-3 system, may be applauded for making students more employable, but it has not been very successful in creating proficient leaders and innovators. Granted, Kenya as a whole has produced some inspiring figures and innovations, but these are the exception. The 8-4-4 system has been widely criticised for being too tasking on students and placing excessive pressure on academic performance. That being said, the Leader in Me programme does not intend to change the status-quo, but rather improve on it. According to Ian, good leaders are &ldquo;effective, proficient evaluators and they also learn to discover the leaders among them.&rdquo;Using the paradigm that all children can be leaders and achievers, Raiser Group, using the 7 Habits, can realise this goal and drastically change the outcome of a student&rsquo;s time in school.