Opposition chief Raila Odinga yesterday urged women in Nyanza not to be seduced by men who do not have voters cards. &ldquo;Even these beautiful ladies here, men should not seduce them if they do not have IDs and register as voters. Women should also ensure men register as voters,&rdquo; Raila said. Raila urged boda boda operators to mobilise residents to register in large numbers. He said the August 8 election is no joke, and the opposition is leaving nothing to chance. &ldquo;We are out to win and form the next government,&rdquo; Raila said.Speaking in Kenyatta Stadium, Kisumu, he said the National Super Alliance will sent the Jubilee administration home, whether it likes it or not. Raila, however, said this will only be possible if all eligible voters register.The ODM leader, who described NASA as the River Nile, said the journey to liberate Kenyans from poor governance and massive corruption is unstoppable. He said Jubilee has sensed defeat and urged Cord supporters and Kenyans yearning for change to seal President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s fate through massive registration.&ldquo;If we all register as voters, then NASA will sweep away Jubilee Party. It is therefore crucial for Kenyans to take a bold step and enlist as voters,&rdquo; Raila said. The opposition faces stiff competition, especially in Kisii and Nyamira after the defections to Jubilee of Kisii Senator Chris Obure, Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. This intensified the scramble for the Gusii votes. Opposition strongholds have the highest number of unregistered voters, according to statistics from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Raila is leading the push in enrolment of voters across the country.The former premier and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi were in Western on Tuesday. Raila toured Vihiga and Kakamega counties. He held a rally at Shamakhokho market in Hamisi constituency and another in Kakamega town. Mudavadi will be in Busia and Bungoma counties on Saturday. Their visit underscores the importance the opposition attaches to the region.In Nyanza, 1,274,894 people with IDs are unregistered, while Western has 1,007,524 unregistered voters. Raila camped in Busia, Kisumu and Siaya counties yesterday.He will tour Nyamira, Kisii, Homa Bay and Migori counties today, where he will monitor registration and address roadside rallies to encourage residents to enlist.