&ldquo;Drinking was always part of our family life. We did not need a reason to do it. We drank, whether or not there was a celebration. I think that is why I didn&rsquo;t realise I had become an alcoholic,&rdquo; says Sheila.Sheila Nkirote*, 32, says she struggled with alcoholism for more than a decade before finally seeking rehabilitation. She has been sober for three years now.She recounts what led her down the path of alcoholism, and how she got out of the abyss.Losing her parents&ldquo;Both my parents died due to alcohol. My father when I was six years old and mum three years later. Life became very hard for us after our relatives took me and my two siblings &ndash; brother and sister &ndash; in.&rdquo;Sheila says she has never really gotten along with her siblings. &ldquo;You would think that since my sister and I are only two years apart, we would have a lot in common. But no, my sister and I have never clicked. And my brother has struggled with schizophrenia for a long time, so I was the one supporting him.&rdquo;Sheila says the stress of sibling rivalry, grieving the loss of her parents, and feeling like a burden to her relatives made her turn to alcohol at the age of 16.Love for vodka&ldquo;I went straight into drinking the hard stuff. I had seen my parents drink away their problems, so I followed in their footsteps. I drank vodka and I found myself temporarily forgetting my problems.&rdquo;Sheila said she was expelled from school on many occasions and her relatives gave up on her. &ldquo;They labelled me a drunk beyond help.&rdquo;When Sheila turned 24, the management of the assets left by her parents was transferred to her since she is the eldest child.&ldquo;This caused further divisions between me and my sister. She felt entitled to more assets than the rest of us because she is a single mother. My brother is a laidback person and didn&rsquo;t interfere. All he asked for was his share.&rdquo;Although she could survive on the proceeds of the investments, Sheila still took up a job in marketing to keep her busy. &ldquo;I was good at my job, and was still able to perform under the influence, even though I always had a bottle of vodka in my desk.&rdquo;Busted with alcoholSheila says one day, her colleague noticed she had alcohol and reported her to the human resource manager. &ldquo;I was summoned and I admitted to drinking, but said it would stop.&rdquo;Problems arose when Sheila&rsquo;s work performance began to deteriorate because she was drinking too much. &ldquo;I would go out the whole weekend and come to the office on Monday reeking of alcohol and I became a nuisance and poor performer.&rdquo;Sheila was fired. &ldquo;After that, I drowned myself in alcohol and since I had income coming in from our family&rsquo;s investments, I didn&rsquo;t put too much effort into looking for another job.&rdquo;Sheila says her relatives would visit her and try to convince her to get her life in order, but most times she would not answer the door.&ldquo;The lights would be on, so my relatives knew I was in the house but I just didn&rsquo;t want to see anyone. I was depressed at how my life was spiralling out of control.&rdquo;During her regular visits to the bar, Sheila met a man she started a relationship with. &ldquo;But he was also an alcoholic and two alcoholics cannot help each other.&rdquo;Gold-digger boyfriendOn realising Sheila had &ldquo;free&rdquo; money at her disposal, the man convinced her to get into business with him. They started a taxi business, but it did not make any profit, and in fact, Sheila&rsquo;s boyfriend turned the vehicle into his personal car.&ldquo;My relatives told me to get rid of the man. They said I was an alcoholic, and now wanted to add being a man&rsquo;s provider to the picture. I realised they had a point because the man would constantly ask for money for ventures that never seemed to take off. I was running broke because I would give him the little cash I received from investments.&rdquo;After a couple of months of dating, Sheila dumped the man and went back to drowning her sorrows in alcohol. &ldquo;I felt alone in the world and tried to rekindle my relationship with my siblings, but everyone had their own problems. My sister was going through the struggles of being a young, single mother, and my brother&rsquo;s schizophrenia was getting worse by the day,&rdquo; she says.Suicidal thoughtsIn 2013, after a weekend drinking spree, Sheila woke up with a throbbing headache and suicidal thoughts.This is when she said enough was enough and checked herself into a rehabilitation centre.&ldquo;I had had enough of living in misery and watching the days go by. I threw out all my alcohol, took a shower and went to a rehab centre in Nyeri.&rdquo;Turning pointWhile she was there, Sheila says she faced discrimination from the caregivers.&ldquo;The nurses would give us sedatives on a regular basis and would treat us like outcasts. I remember there was this one time I was seated in the lounge and overheard the nurses gossiping about us. They said we were headed nowhere in life and we would die. I couldn&rsquo;t believe they were saying such things, yet we were very normal people, just battling addiction.&rdquo;Sheila says this made her decide to change her life.The next encounter that made Sheila stop drinking was when she had a chat with another patient at the rehabilitation centre.&ldquo;The man was in his 60s. He told me he was shocked to see such a young woman at the centre. He told me he didn&rsquo;t mind if he died, or was unable to fully recover from alcoholism because he had already lived his life,&rdquo; she says.&ldquo;He told me I had my whole life ahead of me and was just flushing it down the toilet. He said he didn&rsquo;t know my problems, but that I could get through them and make something out of myself.&rdquo;Slowly, Sheila started changing her outlook. &ldquo;I decided not to let my past determine the course of my life,&rdquo; she said.After completing the rehabilitation programme in late 2013, Sheila decided to change her life and did not touch alcohol thereafter. It has been three years since she drank alcohol.Rejection from relativesSheila says she reached out to her relatives, telling them she was sober, but they had already written her off as an &ldquo;unreformable alcoholic&rdquo;.&ldquo;That time was tough for me. To hear my relatives speak horrible things about me behind my back and to my face hurt a lot. But I was determined to stay the course and prove to them I was a new person.&rdquo;After years of not touching alcohol, Sheila says some of her relatives still view her as an alcoholic and judge her.&ldquo;It hurts, but I don&rsquo;t think too much about it. My sister has told me the nasty things they say, but I choose to not to focus on that.&rdquo;Looking for a jobSheila says she is now focused on looking for a job.She says she has experienced a lot of judgement because of her battle with alcoholism.&ldquo;My former friend would call me up, almost expecting to hear I had relapsed. It&rsquo;s frustrating that many people cannot let your past be your past.&rdquo; She adds: &ldquo;I just cut them off. I would like to reach out to other people struggling with alcoholism, but I&rsquo;d rather do it in private, a one-on-one kind of scenario, because most people are good at judging. Especially now that I am back in the job market. I just want a fresh start with no one knowing my past.&rdquo;It is for this reason she requests that she remain anonymous.Sheila concludes by saying, &ldquo;There is hope for everyone. I was able to reform, yet I drank for more than a decade.&rdquo;*Name changed to protect interviewee&rsquo;s privacy.