Cheese is essentially milk fermented with the aid of a coagulant. It can be made from the milk of cows, goats, sheep and even water buffalo.Brown&rsquo;s have their own herd of cows but most of their milk comes from farmers. The company produces more than a dozen varieties of cheese, including cheddar, gouda, feta, Parmesan, brie, Camembert, halloumi and mozzarella.Cheese production begins with fresh milk being pasteurised at high temperatures to destroy harmful microbes. A culture containing good bacteria is added to the warm milk to kick-start fermentation. The cultures vary according the type of cheese being produced.After some time, rennet is introduced to stimulate coagulation of the milk. Rennet is an enzyme-containing extract traditionally obtained from the stomach of young cows or other domestic animals. But today, rennet is also produced from plant sources and lab-engineered micro-organisms.However, certain cheese types must be made from animal rennet, such as Parmigiano Reggiano, gorgonzola and Grana Padano. Ricotta and paneer cheeses usually have lemon juice or vinegar added to the milk to aid in coagulation.The solid milk curd that separates from the whey is what is used to make cheese. The proteins-rich whey is not discarded but can be used in the manufacture of products such as infant formula, body-building supplements and animal feeds, and is also used in commercial baking.From the initial batch of curds, different types of cheese are produced through various levels of water extraction, aging and flavour enhancements.Cheese is shaped in moulds of different shapes and sizes that have a long tradition. The moulded cheese is further pressed with weights to extract more water.Once it sets, the cheese is removed from the moulds and placed inside chilled storage caves or cold rooms. Here it is left to age in careful controlled environments of humidity and low temperatures.Depending on the variety, cheese will age for a few weeks or up to several months. Huge wheels of Parmesan are left to mature for up to two years. The cheese is turned over regularly to ensure an even shape.