Is opposition chief Raila Odinga (pictured) planning a dressing-down of the ruling Jubilee Party with yet another corruption scandal in the coming few weeks? Well, Corridors has established that the Cord co-principal, with the help of his economic advisers, is piecing together evidence of what they will claim is another Eurobond-like scandal. This, Raila hopes, will trigger a shift in voting pattern countrywide. Those in the know say that the dossier will be released immediately the ongoing voter listing exercise is concluded. A close confidant of the ex-Prime Minister was overheard bragging at a high-end hotel in Nairobi that the magnitude of the scandal will rock the very nerve centre of the Jubilee administration and its aftershocks will be felt all the way to August 8. ***** That campaigns for the general election are here is not in doubt. Politicians will now deploy all manner of resources to outwit each other and endear themselves to voters. However, one such campaign tool that comes in handy at this time is the tendency by politicians to splash loads of cash and promising voters all manner of pledges. But for those MPs who never saved enough to oil their campaigns, these are their days of reckoning as they face cut-throat competition from flashy newcomers who want to spend to the last man to get elected. One such lawmaker known not to be running any formal business that buttress finances was overheard complaining in Parliament that he may not have enough to mount a formidable campaign against his opponent. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what to do given that my wife is not supportive of my reelection. God may work miracles before we hit the road,&rdquo; the distraught MP told his colleague in Parliament. The lawmaker from Central Kenya is facing the battle of his life to defend his position as he fights to secure pension in his second term. ***** Did opposition chief Raila Odinga have a telephone conversation with a new IEBC commissioner last week? We are aware that the former Prime Minister called the commissioner and congratulated him on his appointment. A mole close to the Cord co-principal told Corridors that the commissioner,who was wondering how Raila got his number, was too excited after the call and immediately rang his colleagues to inform them of the goodwill message from the key opposition chief. Raila is said to have asked the commissioner to work diligently and make sure the commission holds a free, fair and credible general election. The opposition chief is also said to have raised an issue with the lack of enough BVR kits in the ongoing mass voter registration.