Cord leader Raila Odinga has assured their supporters that the coalition will not allow the August 8 general election to be rigged.Raila said in Bungoma that that they have sealed all loopholes that can be used by their competitors to influence the poll's outcome.He said the coalition has gathered enough experience from Ghana, which they will use in the scheduled election to avert foul play."Don't panic about elections being stolen anymore. We have learned from an elaborate scheme of manning all polling stations the way Ghana did," Raila said."What we only need from you is to register as voters. The winner will be determined at the end of the mass listing," the Opposition leader told the gathering at Posta Grounds.Raila said they will invest heavily towards the safety of the cast ballots to ensure that none of them are stolen. "The result of this battle will be known at the end of voter registration. As my blood brothers, you have no option but to help me," Raila said. Read: We won&rsquo;t take another &lsquo;rigged&rsquo; election lying down, says RailaAlso read: Raila a perennial loser whose only tactics are violence, lies - Duale Raila called on residents to shun behaviours of asking for handouts before registering as voters, saying such practices will give jubilee an easy win. He termed Jubilee leaders as a bunch of liars who have only ruined the economy of the country during their helm in power. "This is a government of liars...where are the laptops...where is Jacob Juma?," he asked, further warning Kenyans against risking another five years under Jubilee.He said Kenyans should elect experienced leaders like himself so as to steer the country forward to greater heights of development."We have enough experience to redeem this country. Both Uhuru and Ruto worked under me. I tried to teach them in vain," Raila said.Cord principal Moses Wetang'ula, who was with Raila, said the country is tired of the jubilee government.He said Ruto and Uhuru have plunged the country into a sorry state, adding that Cord leaders are ready to sacrifice their political ambitions to send the two home."These boys are unable to run this country and the best thing is to send them home," Wetang'ula said.