From what has been happening in Baringo County in the last one week or so, it is now apparent that Jubilee Party will have it rough in August 8 when Kenyans throng election stations to cast their votes. The Swahili people have a saying: Mwiba wa kujidunga hauna pole (Everyone should be responsible for their actions). Indeed the people of this county of my maternal uncles have been taken for granted since Jubilee Government ascended to power in 2013.If there is a county in Rift Valley that Jubilee looked and treated with utter disdain, it is Baringo County. In spite of voting for JP en-masse four years ago, this county has been eating the leftovers but many times it only swallowed saliva as other counties enjoyed acres of marinated steak.As if that was enough, JP top leaders launched unprecedented attacks on some of its leaders particularly area Senator Gideon Moi. They isolated him and derided him over and over. They even &ldquo;stole&rdquo; one of his MPs, Hellen Saambili just for the sake of hitting out at Moi for &lsquo;not toeing JP&rsquo;s line.&rdquo;Projects that JP honchos promised the residents in the run-up to the elections have been totally ignored and the people left to their own devices. All the road networks in the county from Nakuru to Kabarnet all the way to Kipsaraman and from Kabarnet to Iten were done during Retired President Daniel arap Moi&rsquo;s tenure. Not an inch has been built by JP. Even the schools that dot the area are there thanks to Kanu&rsquo;s regime.The residents have been watching the unfolding scenario with concern. The Tugens are not a people quick to anger. They never make rushed decisions. That they are patient does not mean that patience never runs out. They have a tipping point. My uncles have flipped the coin. Their wait and see position has turned to time to take action and tell off their tormentor. Time for sugar-coating the situation they find themselves in is no longer tolerable. Like my favorite Country Musician Kenny Rogers sings, they picked the time to leave JP just as elections are around the corner. This is not the time to lose allies. If anything, it is that time when JP should be filling its fruit baskets with harvests from all corners of the country. Unfortunately, like the proverbial monkey, all tree branches are becoming slippery for party that once upon a time ruled the roose. The summer nights are over for JP in Baringo County. If you don&rsquo;t believe me ask County Woman Rep Grace Kiptui, Baringo Central MP Sammy Mwaita and his Baringo North counterpart William Cheptumo among other JP politicians in the county who have been driving roughshod on the poor residents thinking they would never dream for a better future for themselves.And so it happened that residents and their leaders booed JP MPs telling them to leave them alone.Some leaders who have since defected from JP to Kanu lamented over the burden placed on their shoulders to market the UhuRuto party in the county. &ldquo;It is impossible to tell the people to rally behind jubilee because of the unfulfilled promises and blatant arrogance among its rank and file when dealing with their elected leaders. The leaders had to cut short their meet-the people and vanish into the thick night. By trying to fix people to remove some leaders in August, JP shot itself on the foot. The December Sugoi delegations have come to haunt the ruling party when it needs Baringo more.The on-going insecurity in swathes of the county has added to JP ever mounting tribulations. The famine ravaging the people is also not painting a good picture or the party. Dozens of schools are yet to open for first term as the rest of the country moves on as if nothing is happening. As Baringo residents in Taity, Nginyang&rsquo; and the wider Marigat among other places boil wild fruits, leaves and roots, JP should be giving them food not asking for their votes. Where is JP&rsquo;s humanity?