Meghan Markle is "very much in love" with Prince Harry and has already introduced him to her father, it was reported last night.The young royal first met the actress&rsquo;s father &ndash; who approves of the relationship &ndash; about six months ago, according to her half-brother.Thomas Markle Junior said: "My dad knew about [the relationship] from the start. He first met Prince Harry out in Toronto."He&rsquo;s pretty happy about Harry and he&rsquo;s extremely proud of her. They [Meghan and her father] have an amazing relationship &ndash; they&rsquo;re very close and they always have been."Markle Junior said of his sister, who is currently based in Toronto, and the prince: "They&rsquo;re extremely happy together, they look great together and she&rsquo;s done good. She&rsquo;s very much in love. I wish them all the best. I couldn&rsquo;t be happier for her. She&rsquo;s always been fun and easy going &ndash; she&rsquo;s a good girl. A very good girl. Prince Harry is lucky."Harry, 32, and 35-year-old divorcee Meghan, who stars in US drama Suits, were introduced by mutual friends in July. Since then, their relationship has gone from strength to strength. It is believed the pair are on holiday together after spending Christmas with their respective families.Harry was in Sandringham with the Royal Family and Meghan was with her 60-year-old mother, who now works as a yoga teacher and social worker.Thomas Markle Junior, 50, has the same father as Meghan &ndash; Thomas Markle Senior, 72. His mother was the former lighting director&rsquo;s first wife, Roslyn. Meghan was born as a result of a second marriage to Doria Ragland, whom Markle Senior met on the set of the soap opera General Hospital, where she was a make-up artist. Read: Prince Harry defends girlfriend, 'Suits' actress Meghan Markle, after 'wave of abuse'Both Markle Junior and his sister, Samantha, lived with their father and step-mother for several years in Los Angeles.He described Meghan as a "lovely" young girl who was well-behaved, academic and accomplished &ndash; and clearly destined for great things. "She used to go and hang out with my dad all the time when he was working. She would run around the studio on the set of General Hospital and I think that&rsquo;s when she decided she wanted to be an actress," her brother told DailyMail.com in the US.Meghan, who is mixed-race, has also frequently spoken of how supportive her father was at boosting her confidence when she became conscious of her joint heritage.Last night Markle Junior&rsquo;s claims that Harry had met his father were dismissed by his sister, Samantha Grant, who is estranged from both himself and Meghan.She claimed on Twitter that she had just spoken to her father who told her that he had not met Harry and had not spoken to his son, Thomas Markle Junior, for some time.When news of the actress&rsquo;s relationship with the prince broke, Samantha launched an extraordinary attack on her half-sister, describing her as a pushy social climber, claims which were derided by the rest of her family. Both Meghan&rsquo;s US publicist and Kensington Palace declined to comment on the claims.