Four officers at the Lands ministry have been suspended for alleged fraud and attempts to siphon public funds.But the Star has established CS Jacob Kaimenyi spared two senior officials implicated in the scandal. They are Peter Kahuho, the third-ranking officer after the CS and PS, and principal land administration officer Silas Mburugu.The six are being investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for, among other things, issuing fake title deeds. Last week EACC investigators searched their homes and offices.The Star has established that the four officers went on compulsory leave after getting orders from Kaimenyi last week. They are principal land administrator Enock Ogeto, senior land administration officer Faith Wambua, deputy director of surveys John Maina and survey officer Caleb Ogare.&ldquo;It has been reported that the EACC is investigating you for ... more specifically the allegations on fraudulent subdivision of land and issuance of fake title [deeds] at the ministry,&rdquo; reads a letter to one of the officers, signed by JW Gitu on behalf of Kaimenyi.Kaimenyi said the EACC only recommended action against the four, though this runs the risk of the other two compromising investigations. &ldquo;This is an EACC matter and we only act on instructions from the commission,&rdquo; he said on Friday.The law provides that &ldquo;a state officer may be suspended from office pending the investigation and determination of the allegations against the officer where the suspension is considered necessary.&rdquo;Though the officials are public officers, the Constitution stipulates that the provisions shall apply as if they were state officers. The suspended officers will receive half pay until the investigations conclude. On January 17, the High Court declared more than three million title deeds issued since 2013 to be illegal as they were irregularly processed. The ministry says they are not illegal. Parliament is yet to pass regulations to conform with the Land Registration Act.