These were the reported scores of the nine candidates interviewing: 77.39, 76.33, 72.22, 71.83, 71.78, 69.72, 66.33, 63.17, and 63.11. Who do you think got the job? Well, it&rsquo;s the one with 63.17!In another interview process, the top 3 candidates reportedly scored 84%, 74% and 72%. In this instance the candidate reported to have scored 84% is offered the job. That&rsquo;s great, you would think. How were these scores arrived at? How was this ranking determined? How did each interviewer score the respective candidates on each criterion set out? No response. Blank! Zip! Nada! On these questions, one encounters a stone cold wall. Why, are we still in the age of sirikali (state secrets) where even newspapers that were purchased by the government would be issued with the stamp of the Official Secrets Act?&ldquo;We further wish to inform you that the said student was discontinued on Academic Grounds in his third year of study (for failing 50% or more of all the Credit Factors taken in the ordinary examinations of one academic year) by Senate on 26th August 2010.&rdquo; This is a letter from the Registrar of Academic Affairs of a public university regarding a prominent public servant. Obviously barring mistaken identity, how did the &ldquo;said student&rdquo; enter the public service? Moreover, why is he still a public servant when he is clearly, obviously and manifestly academically unqualified?The constitution of Kenya is operating in a parallel universe. It has been overthrown and replaced by our bad, dreadful, smelly old habits. For of what use are such provisions: &ldquo;The values and principles of public service include fair competition and merit as the basis of appointments and promotions&rdquo;; &ldquo;The values and principles of public service include &ldquo;transparency and provision to the public of timely, accurate information&rdquo;; &ldquo;Every person has the right to administrative action that is&hellip;reasonable and procedurally fair&rdquo;?Forget meritocracy; we are sipping and supping from the poisoned chalice of mediocrity. The real tragedy is that, in addition, we really collectively feel nothing about it. It does not seem to bother our collective conscience that a high school graduate will earn more than a medical doctor by exclusive reason that the former is tagged &ldquo;mjumbe&rdquo; or &ldquo;mheshimiwa&rdquo; (public representative). We are similarly collectively unbothered that a hairdresser can, self-admittedly, cart away in sacks public money to the tune of Ksh60 million.It is no wonder then that, despite our vast wealth and riches in talent, skills and technical wherewithal, our public service and its delivery of services remains in such a parlous state. This has been the defining narrative of the state of the Kenyan commons: because it simultaneously belongs to everyone and no one (as so eloquently captured by the term &ldquo;mali ya umma&rdquo; &ndash; public property), we care not an iota about it and demand nary an accounting for it.For those with disposable income, that is those who do not belong to the class of naomba serikali (&ldquo;I beg the government&rdquo;), this has meant that what we do is seek private solutions to public problems: our roads have potholes, well, buy a 4x4 SUV. Or, if you are buzzing with financial testosterone, purchase a helicopter. Our public hospitals are ill-equipped, unsanitary, oversubscribed and, especially now, without doctors; well, take out personal medical insurance and access private healthcare. Or fly the sick abroad for treatment. Worse, it is not just our past and present that we have decimated so deleteriously; we are also busy cannibalizing our future. Our mediocrity has patently affected, infected and afflicted our youth with moral equivalence and ambivalence.Not only have we been satisfied to daily rob of healthy and productive spaces and opportunities to advance themselves them through our mediocrity, incompetence, lopsided morality and lack of progressive social ethos, we have proceeded to rob them of the moral foundations and infrastructure to properly self-locate in the extremely arid, turbulent and perilous universe which are bequeathing them.Here is what the executive summary of The Kenya Youth Survey Report released by the Aga Khan University in January 2016 observed, among other things:The stated desire for entrepreneurship&hellip;is not compatible with what appears to be a high tolerance for corruption, tax evasion and a desire to make money by any means possible. Similarly, a young and corruptible electorate could undermine democracy by making it difficult for candidates who lack significant financial resources to compete for votes. Moreover, the youth&rsquo;s concern about a future that will be short of ethics and plagued with corruption demands urgent and collective attention.The situation is clearly not irretrievable, irreversible or irrevocable. It calls for our collective resolution: indeed, 2017 offers another opportunity to rally together, ask the right questions and eventually cast our votes for leaders rather than dealers.But alas! Don&rsquo;t hold your breath: this is Kenya, where the hustler is king! And also extremely proud to shout, brag and bellow about it. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.