A section of ODM governors and MPs are among aspirants who are yet to submit their nomination applications to the party ahead of the Monday deadline.The applications are required for the party to prepare for the primaries next month where candidates will be selected to run in the August 8 polls.ODM chairJohn Mbadi has already hinted that the deadline will not be extended after previous extensions from the original deadline of November 30, 2016.&ldquo;The national executive committee agreed not to extend it further,&rdquo; Mbadi said on Saturday.More on this: ODM outlines strict rules for aspirants before nominations[VIDEO] ODM to stagger 2017 nomination, Raila party to hold strategy meeting todayAccording to the party's election plan for 2017, aspirants seeking the presidential nomination are required to pay a nonrefundable fee of Sh1 million.Ggovernors are expected to pay Sh500,000, while MPs, who include Senators and members of the National Assembly, pay Sh250,000. MCA aspirants are required to pay Sh25,000 to be cleared for the nomination exercise, while those classified in special interest groups such as women, youth and the disabled, pay Sh15,000.Read: Brace for tough by-elections, ODM tells expelled politiciansBut aspirants in areas where ODM enjoys fanatical following have questioned the &ldquo;huge&rdquo; fees, saying it may not make sense paying the amount if the nomination process is not transparent. &ldquo;Some of us are worried that we may not be subjected to a fair nomination process which makes it even more difficult to part with the monies required,&rdquo; a governor from Nyanza who sought anonymity told the Star. &ldquo;It is this assurance that we want from the party because losing the money and the nomination through a &ldquo;fraudulent process&rdquo; amounts to double jeopardy,&rdquo; an MP from a Siaya county, who equally did not want to be quoted, told the Star.&ldquo;It is reason that some of us may find our way to other entities but within the Cord family because the party has not addressed it,&rdquo; the MP said. But Mbadi reiterated that the nomination process will be free and fair. &ldquo;I can tell you that despite the position I hold in the party, I cannot say that my nomination is guaranteed. I have to work just like any other aspirant and this is the reason I have been camping on the ground!&rdquo; he said. On January 2, the party extended the application process by 10 more days so as not to lock out individuals who had traveled for festivities. ODM national elections board chair Judy Pareno said that the final decision as whether to extend or not, will be made once the deadline comes to an end on Monday. &ldquo;We will pronounce ourselves on this day but so far the response has been amazing,&rdquo; she said .She also said full information regarding the number and the positions applied for by the individuals will be made on the day.