2017 is starting off fresh and most of us are trying to make big plans and make it &ldquo;our year.&rdquo; You probably want to make your family proud of you by achieving something big or make a major move in life, like marriage or starting a company.In an exclusive interview I had with Vivek Group - Managing Director Mr. Chintan Thacker, he gave deep, actionable pointers that you can use to achieve your goals this year. The 35-year-old award-winning business executive runs successfully a group of companies with an impressive portfolio, ranging from Manufacturing &ndash; FMCG to Retail &amp; Trade, Precious Stones &amp; Metals, Real Estate and much more.&ldquo;Simple things can change your life within weeks, if you develop them as habits, ending up taking problems away, seeing you achieve far more, and bringing success into your life,&rdquo; he says. Here are some of his favorite pointers that you can use to become the best you&rsquo;ve ever imagined in your life.1. Become a fixerFrom today, whenever something goes wrong, look at how it happened, and what made it into a problem. This is not a blame game. This is about changing the way things are done by learning from what doesn&rsquo;t work or fails. If two people were both waiting on each other and nothing happening with either of them, put one of them in charge of checking progress no matter whose step is the next. If there was no spare when something ran out, buy spares and put someone in charge of keeping count and keeping spares. Everyday problems have myriad causes, but you will find if you start digging into what went wrong and, every time, fixing it permanently, the days that get taken from you &ldquo;fire-fighting&rdquo; diminish rapidly &ndash; and you start to get your time back for building, creating and growing. So make the time to be a fixer, and steadily remove the number of things being done the wrong way by seeing how to do them better, and doing it.2. Run a &ldquo;To Do&rdquo; listKeep it in your phone, and check it regularly. Add things as you remember them, delete items as you complete them. You&rsquo;ll find you get more than twice as much done, and in some cases, I have seen a simple list of things to be done shift someone&rsquo;s level of achievements by 5 or 6-fold. Lists make more difference than you can possibly imagine3. Give yourself planning timeSomething that can take hours to pull off often takes a fraction of the time, if you only plan it out beforehand. Work out when your planning time is. Do you have time to wake in the morning and take a quiet cup of tea as you think and plan, can you think and plan in the shower, can you make time to sit in the park to or from work and just reflect on how best to execute what&rsquo;s on your agenda today? Shift your way of working to add extra planning before every task and you will go faster, not slower: a counter-intuitive truth, but a fact. A little more planning saves a lot of time and energy.4. Communicate moreNotice the things that hold you back most and frustrate or infuriate you the most, and you will find that most of them can be improved through some extra communication. Make an extra few minutes in everything you do to communicate. And just watch the difference it makes!5. Do something differentThis last change is my own top favourite: every week, do at least one thing that you have never done before. Go for a run, or try a new coffee, plan your project on Excel for the first time, or call a potential partner to meet about a new business idea. If, every week, you add something different, progressively your life changes, in the direction you want it to: the secret is only to begin, wherever you want, with whatever you want. Your new rule is only to do something different every week: your heart and intuition are safe guides as you pick your changes and start to change your own life.There you have it, have a successful 2017!