Some Rift Valley leaders yesterday told National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale to apologise to former President Daniel Moi over allege demeaning remarks he made during the burial of former nominated MP Mark Too in Eldoret.Former Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott and Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter criticised Duale for saying Moi was saved from the bush during the 1982 attempted coup.&ldquo;Moi was then in Kabarak and at no time was he in the bush. Duale should not use his cheap politics to abuse the retired President. Duale should know he is not in the same class as Moi,&rdquo; Biwott said.During the burial on Monday last week, Duale told Baringo Senator Gideon Moi that the pastoralist community "carried retired President Moi on their backs for many years". He said he married the daughter of former army chief general Mahmoud Mohammed, whom he claimed saved Moi from the bush during the attempted coup.He demanded that Gideon support Deputy President William Ruto in return.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s is disrespectful for Duale to joke around with Moi&rsquo;s name. We demand that he apologise publicly over his irresponsible remarks,&rdquo; Keter said. Biwott and Keter said although it was the duty of the military to protect the head of state at that time, they did not do so because of politics. The two spoke to journalists in Eldoret town.Former envoy Stephen Tarus and Kanu leaders have also said Duale&rsquo;s remarks were disrespectful Moi and Kalenjins.&ldquo;Even if Duale knew what happened to Moi in the 1982 attempted coup that was a security issue that did not concern or involve him. It was too irresponsible for him to talk about it in public and he has to withdraw the remarks,&rdquo; Tarus said.Kanu leaders Benjamin Leting, David Chepsiror, Jonathan Bii and Paul Kibet said Duale should keep away from the region. He only spews insults when he visits, upsetting residents, they said. Mahmoud's family, through his brother Hussein Maalim, have asked Duale to stop dragging them into "careless politics". They disassociated themselves with Duale&rsquo;s remarks.Tarus said Duale embarrassed two respectable families. At the funeral Governor Jackson Mandago had cautioned Duale to watch his words, but he went ahead to disparage Moi.Biwott said by then, Moi was safe in Kabarak and there is no way he would have gone to hide in the bush.He said it is disrespectful for Duale to allude that Moi was a coward in his own government.