The Jubilee Party is getting off to a flying start to the year beginning on Friday January 13, 2017, with the introduction of Africa&rsquo;s first political party membership smartcard. The card will cost only Sh20 and members will apply via SMS, inputting information about their names, ID numbers, mobile and card numbers. The launch was initially set for Monday January 9 at Jubilee House, Pangani, Nairobi. It was postponed yesterday due to the Mark Too funeral on Monday and the State visit to India on Tuesday.The unique individual membership numbers will be sent to the Registrar of Political Parties. JP is looking at recruiting more than 5 million members and increasing its voter base.This massive recruitment drive will make JP Kenya&rsquo;s first political party to have such a comprehensively documented and verifiable membership digital database, no other political formation comes near.Lately, there has been talk of apathy in the JP heartlands. But organizationally, JP will become a wonder of political mobilization. The party had already inaugurated 47 county officials &ndash; six nominated by elected officials, six by aspirants, six by MCAs and one each by the Governor and Senator.The same formula is being used for the 290 constituencies and 1,450 wards. The numbers are 893 for the counties, 5,510 for the constituencies and 27,550 for the wards. Effectively, these cadres are Jubilee&rsquo;s political mobilisers and they are barred from being candidates. They will manage JP affairs until August 8. Their main mission is to combat apathy by creating such a JP wave that it fills the vacuum left by the ICC sympathy vote wave of 2013, following the collapse of the UhuRuto cases. The launch of the smartcard with a readable barcode that captures all of a JP member&rsquo;s information is well timed. It will be used for a mammoth membership recruitment during the 60 to 45-day nominations window. THE END OF PARTY HOPPINGThe issuing of the cards and the deployment of the interim officials is calculated to set off a bushfire in Jubilee&rsquo;s vote-rich strongholds. Unlike ODM&rsquo;s &ldquo;vote ambassadors&rdquo;, who work for a fee, JP&rsquo;s interim officials are volunteers and thoroughly political animals.The genius of the anti-party-hopping law will kick in during the key period prescribed by the law when members of all parties, including independents, must choose their party &ndash; 90 days before August 8. All party nominations take place across a 45-60 days period. And this holds true too for such &ldquo;getaway car&rdquo; parties as Meru Governor Peter Munya&rsquo;s Party of National Unity, Joseph Munyao&rsquo;s the Democratic Party, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi&rsquo;s Kanu, Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto&rsquo;s Chama Cha Mashinani and others have to nominate within these timelines.All candidates, including independents, must gazette their names with the IEBC 45 days before internal party nominations. They cannot thereafter change parties, even after nominations. If you want to go from JP to PNU, move before your name is gazetted for the nominations. Party hopping is out. THE DEATH OF APATHYIn JP&rsquo;s Mt Kenya strongholds, Tiers 1, 2 and 3 candidates will vote JP. There being no hopping, Tiers 4, 5 and below candidates will already be inside PNU, Narc K and DP, but vote for Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection.In JP&rsquo;s Rift Valley strongholds, Kanu and CCM will account for Tiers 3, 4, 5 and below, and still vote Uhuru for President. There really is no room for voter apathy. On the other side of the political divide, the Opposition has been singularly unable to sell the unity theme, whether as Cord or the proposed National Super Alliance. Inside Cord-Nasa, all they are selling are their own individual fragmenting parties. Mombasa is a case study, particularly Governor Hassan Joho in ODM, Senator Hassan Omar in Wiper and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti in Wiper, but apparently outward-bound for Ford-K.The August 8 poll will turn on turnout. How can Cord hope to inspire turnout by being internally fragmented? The secret of the JP strongholds continues to be that all its major and most substantive candidates and aspirants are constantly talking about one party &ndash; JP. This matters a great deal on Election Day, indeed there is no better limbering up for a focused turnout than a unity themed workout months ahead of The Big Day.THE BIGGEST CHALLENGESMeanwhile, as far as his reelection bid goes, President Kenyatta&rsquo;s biggest test will be whether JP can rope in at least one vote bloc that did not vote for him in 2013. The key factors at play here are that UhuRuto had the element of complete surprise in 2013 against the opposition Cord, which was an over-confident and ill-prepared outfit. While Uhuru and Raila entered the race with what the pollsters reckoned was a 46 percent chance for each man, the younger man had a far better turnout machine. Although he still insists he has won all his Presidential races with the possible exception of 1997, Raila has gone insane for 2017 in terms of whipping up turnout, going so far as to order that youths in his Luo Nyanza redoubt who fail to register for both ID and vote cards in preparation for August 8 be caned in public. He clearly knows he was deficient in turnout in 2013.For UhuRuto, the only sure path to undisputed victory is to bring in an entire bloc &ndash; or for Cord to lose one. The President and DP no longer have the element of complete surprise or the sympathy vote factor of the ICC crimes-against-humanity cases against them. Instead, they have the track record of a first term in power and the baggage of all that went wrong on their initial watch. Jubilee has assiduously courted Kisii and Coast searching for that essential extra bloc that brings in not less than a million votes. An UhuRuto duo with all of the advantages of incumbency could still prove to be formidable indeed.Positing his &ldquo;Tyranny of Numbers&rdquo; hypothesis in 2013, Mutahi Ngunyi concluded that Raila lost to Uhuru the moment voter registration ended on December 18, 2012. Uhuru won and Jubilee got the Majority in both Houses.