Kenyans aspire to enhanced national development and improved personal socioeconomic status. This aspiration is, however, often confused with Western civilisation that can be traced to the colonial period when the latter systematically demonised African culture and values.Following the advent of western civilisation, Kenya&rsquo;s traditional social support systems and social etiquette were severely eroded as people adopted the western culture and society became characterised by poor parenting, appallingly low levels of social etiquette, focus on materialism and conspicuous consumption. Progressively, society took to glorifying the acquisition of wealth by any means, including the abuse of human rights, theft of public funds, drug trafficking, corruption and the plunder of national resources. This resulted in the emergence of a small clique of an increasingly wealthy and powerful elite in the midst of runaway poverty. This group sought political power as a means of protecting its wealth and interests through impunity.Prior to the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, Kenyans were faced with serious political economy challenges. Periodic surveys showed a large number of Kenyans live in poverty. Other concerns included the skewed access to and distribution of resources and opportunities that were deemed as inequitable and also, the low quality of education and labour productivity among other factors. There was an increasingly restless and growing pool of unemployed youth with a poor grasp of the interpersonal and ethical skills required for one to succeed in life. In addition, there was a worrying increase in drug abuse, crime and insecurity not to mention the politically instigated inter-ethnic competition and rivalry that periodically resulted in violence. The acute feeling of marginalisation in some regions, and a weak sense of national identity exhibited by some Kenyans is not in consonance with a stable and progressive nation. Almost needless to say, this undermines the timely achievement of the Vision 2030 goals.As the country grapples with the aforementioned socioeconomic and political challenges, diverse opinions have been given in regard to the role of National Values and Principles of Governance in addressing them.Unknown to many, the government has made tremendous efforts in promoting and implementing the National Values and Principles of Governance espoused in Article 10 of the Constitution. A key milestone is the development of Sessional Paper No 8 of 2013, which was approved by Parliament in December, 2015.The Policy was developed through a highly consultative process in 2011 under the then Ministry of Justice, National Cohesion and Constitutional Affairs. Its mission is to provide a platform for inculcation and promotion of national values and principles of governance for the achievement of socio-cultural, economic and political transformation. The broad objective of the policy is to operationalise and institutionalise the National Values and Principles of Governance enshrined in the Constitution.The policy provides four broad strategies for its implementation which include associative approach, recruiting and mobilising change agents, mainstreaming values for behaviour change in all spheres and affirming national values and their champions.Successful implementation of a shared national value system requires the concerted efforts of various players. As the events of the post-election violence of 2007 and 2008 demonstrated, a breakdown of law and order adversely affects the rights and interests of everyone.