The National Irrigation Board on Friday invited bids from international firms to construct the proposed Sh200 billion High Grand Falls Dam after the project was suspended over corruption allegations. This is the third time the Jubilee administration is trying to implement the venture. Deputy President William Ruto stopped the project in August 2013, saying its cost had been exaggerated. The Tana River Development Authority and China State Construction Engineering Corporation later signed a deal to build the dam on May 28, 2014, in the presence of the visiting Chinese premier Li Keying and President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi. It was to be funded by the Export-Import Bank of China under a public-private partnership.The irrigation board has asked firms to submit Expression of Interest documents to fund, build, own or operate the proposed mega fresh water dam by February 17. The project will be later transferred to the state after the investor recoups his investment. On completion, the dam will be the second-largest in Africa after Egypt&rsquo;s Aswan High Dam on the River Nile.&ldquo;A firm may associate with other firms to enhance their qualification, value and quality of their works. The association may take the form of a development venture/consortium &hellip; or subcontracting,&rdquo; the state corporation said. &ldquo;If a firm(s) intends to associate with other firms, it should clearly state in the EOI the composition and form of association.&rdquo;The successful firm or consortium, with similar experience in the last 10 years, will be required to mobilise $2 billion (about Sh207.76 billion), and should complete the project in five years. The credit terms for the funds should be &ldquo;within the limits acceptable&rdquo; by the National Treasury, with disclosures on interest rate, payment period and grant element, the NIB said in the EOI document. The proposed High Grand Falls Dam will have a 500 to 700-megawatt hydroelectric power plant, an irrigation infrastructure targeting 250,000 acres, and fresh water supply system to the proposed Lamu resort city and port. The project &ndash; part of the dragging Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport corridor &ndash; is tipped to improve food security in Kitui, Tana River and Garissa counties.The dam, to be at the junction of River Tana and Mutonga, is expected to hold about 5.6 billion cubic metres of water in the flood-prone Tana Delta. &ldquo;The dam is supposed to harness the waters of both rivers (Tana and Mutonga) to spur socio-economic development activities in the semi-arid areas,&rdquo; the board said.