About 5,000 clinical officers working in public hospitals could go on strike next week on Monday, their union officials have said.The officers suspended their strike for 45 days last month to give the government time to consider their demands, but they claim it has sidelined them in favour of nurses and doctors.National secretary general of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers George Gibore said the Health ministry has a memorandum outlining their demands. &ldquo;When the 45 days end on January 22 with no solution, we will stop working. The main issues are harmonisation of salaries. We don&rsquo;t even earn call allowances. Our interns work for one year with no salaries, yet doctors are paid nearly Sh200,000 a month during internship,&rdquo; Gibore says. Clinical officers are mid-level workers often described as the &ldquo;backbone&rdquo; of healthcare. They run all dispensaries and health centres and nearly all outpatient services in public hospitals. Although COs were initially trained to alleviate the shortage of doctors, they have become a more permanent strategy, with their benefits being reduced training and employment costs and better retention. Kuco deputy secretary general Austin Otieno said their roles now include many medical and surgical tasks usually carried out by doctors, such as dialysis, caesarean section, anaesthesia, diagnosis, treatment and prescription. &ldquo;We do 90 per cent of healthcare work, but they are ignoring us. On average, a clinical officer with a degree or diploma earns Sh40,000 a month,&rdquo; he said. Diploma training takes three years and a one-year internship, while a bachelor of Science in Clinical Medicine takes four years and one-year internship. The COs did not benefit from the Sh20,000 salary increase the government offered nurses last month and will not benefit from the salary and allowances demanded by doctors. &ldquo;We are the quiet but most disgruntled people. We&rsquo;re paid peanuts,&rdquo; Gibore said. Kenya has about 20,000 clinical officers but only 5,000 work in public hospitals. Health PS Nicholas Muraguri met the officials last week and assured them the government would improve their welfare and most of their demands would be met. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re optimistic the government will call for a round table with us as they promised,&rdquo; Gibore said.