Cricketers in Nakuru have been given a ray of hope with the formation of a new cricket club in the area. Pirates Cricket Club, which was formed early this week through a partnership between Rift Valley Development coaches and other well-wishers from England, will cater for the budding talent which has been going to waste in Nakuru.Announcing the development yesterday after receiving the first bunch of uniform, Cricket Kenya (CK) Rift Valley Head of Elite, Peter Ongondo, said the new club will cater for the surplus players who are unable to join the few clubs in the region. &ldquo;The birth of Pirates is good news for cricket in this region. For years, our work has been going to waste because only few clubs have been able to accommodate the players we churn out through development programs in schools,&rdquo; the former national team bowler said.Through Cricket Without Boundaries (CWB), member Ana Stopes, said Pirates will be receiving kit and uniform from Goatacre Cricket Club, a charitable Africa organization based in England.&ldquo;We are delighted with this initiative and I am confident it will help in nurturing talent in the region. We believe the club will provide enduring benefits to the players, their parents and will also act as feeder programme to our national junior side,&rdquo; Ongondo added. Players playing for the club will also benefit from school fees for secondary school students and free lunch and uniform for primary school pupils.&ldquo;The support we have received and what we expect is really good and we can&rsquo;t wait to see the impact. I am sure we will have many kids taking up cricket and those who had stopped playing will return,&rdquo; he said. Currently, Nakuru players forms half of the women&rsquo;s national cricket team. Some of the products from Nakuru are&mdash;Daisy Wairimu, Mary Wambui, Ouinta Aoko and Edith Waithaka. Ongondo said they will enter a team in the Rift Valley Cricket Association league, where they will play alongside girls before forming women&rsquo;s team before the end of the year.