WORD has it that Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka (pictured) may find himself the only candidate defending his seat on the Jubilee Party ticket in the county. It is said MPs and MCAs are plotting to ditch the party for NASA, because &ldquo;selling Jubilee is becoming very difficult&rdquo;, especially if Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi stick together. It is also said the move by Water CS Eugene Wamalwa to run for Trans-Nzoia governor has dealt MCAs allied to his dissolved New Ford Kenya party a body blow. They say Wamalwa will not have time to traverse Bungoma for them to ride on his campaign trail. ***** A senior official at the IEBC was recently heard complaining to one of his friends about how the commission has been held hostage by outside forces. The official pointed an accusing finger at a key state agency as the source of the problems the commission is facing. As this went on, Corridors was reliably informed the state agency in question has infiltrated the commission&rsquo;s systems and is behind the cases where some individuals&rsquo; ID card numbers are secretly being used to register other voters. It is said the agency is keen on raising more than 2 million double-registered voters - the purpose of which, well, your guess is as good as Corridors&rsquo;. ***** SOME supporters of Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi are a worried lot. Rumours that he could be ODM leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s running-mate in NASA are not sitting well with them - at all. Three MPs (one in the Senate) from Western Kenya were heard on Sunday night at a restaurant on Ngong Road, Nairobi, saying they would rather woo their supporters to support Jubilee if Mudavadi decided not to run for President. The Senator said Western Kenya is being treated better than most areas, despite not having voted for Jubilee in 2013, and was not sure if Raila would beat President Uhuru Kenyatta.***** JUST what is the purpose of the attempted recall of all the retired former district commissioners? Interestingly though, quite a number of the retired DCs turned down the offer. Their recall coincides with the disappearance of more than 500,000 blank plastic identity cards at a government-owned building. Whether this is a cause for worry remains to be seen, as is how Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery handles it. Corridors has it in some regions, some Kenyans, who have not attained the mandatory age of 18 years required to hold a national ID card, are being urged to take ID cards - and register to vote. However, the sinister rider is that they should discard the cards immediately they are done with the voting.