The Kalenjin-Kikuyu alliance is the bedrock of the Uhuruto political enterprise. It was a most unlikely alliance that baffled many as it brought together two traditionally opposed communities in the run-up to the elections of 2013. Going into 2017, the big question is whether they are still able to pull the feat of 2013 now as the initial glue that cemented them together (the ICC) is not there. Pundits are questioning how their alliance will deliver the victory which they must have particularly with the Opposition creating a super alliance. The question is, which other communities can Jubilee rope into their arithmetic if they intend to win? While we don&rsquo;t have all the answers, one thing is for sure, Uhuruto will not rely on their base if they are to counter the united opposition. In the first place, the Opposition is desperately trying to break apart this alliance knowing that in so doing, they have weakened them. They had rubbished the pact in 2013 as unworkable and did not envision the two traditional foes voting on the same side. But it happened proving wrong many observers and showed that the Kikuyu-Kalenjin differences were actually artificial. You will be surprised that the historical bonds between the two communities were deep and that they had been victims of &lsquo;artificial&rsquo; hatred that had no substance save only for narrow political interests.The prophecy of ManyeiDuring the Independence celebrations of 1963, at the insistence of Jomo Kenyatta, a middle aged Kalenjin man Barsirian araap Manyei was asked to say a blessing over Kenya and over the new leader Kenyatta. Manyei, the son of slain freedom fighter and Orkoiyot Koitalel Samoei, had been incarcerated and exiled by the British nearly four decades (1923-1961) and lived modestly and in quietude in Nandi where a vehicle had been sent to pick him. It is said that Manyei told Kenyatta that &lsquo;this seat is yours today and ours tomorrow&hellip;&rsquo; It is not clear exactly what he meant by &lsquo;ours&rsquo; or even by &lsquo;yours&rsquo; but those who embrace his words, state that Moi&rsquo;s accession to power was the fulfilment of Manyei&rsquo;s prophecy. Manyei however died a decade later a poor and broken man and like many, he never benefited from the fruits of Independence despite giving two thirds of his life for it. More importantly, he did not see the fulfilment of his own prophecy. An artificial hatredIn the few years after independence, the Kikuyu and Kalenjins were deeply at odds with each other particularly after the massive migration of the former into the traditional homelands of the latter. By 1969, only 73% of the 2.2 million Kikuyus lived in Central province and 9% in nearby Nairobi. A total of 15% had settled in the Rift Valley predominantly in Nakuru and more were moving into Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia. In fact there were twice as many Kikuyus living in Rift Valley as were the Maasai and this was just five years into Independence. Vice President Moi was seen acquiescing over the situation which left many Kalenjins flustered and bewildered. They railed at him for being a sell-out to the community and termed his appointment as a poisoned chalice. However, soon after Moi became VP, a group of Kikuyu hardliners (later identified as Kiambu Mafia) tried to prevent him from succeeding Kenyatta. They held meetings all over trying to prevent power leaving the hypothetical &lsquo;House of Mumbi&rsquo;. It turned out however, that Jomo Kenyatta had all along been behind the &lsquo;Change the Constitution&rsquo; movement which was aimed at barring Moi from (automatically) taking over from him. Having been numerously humiliated and feeling betrayed, Moi was convinced that he would never be friends with the Kikuyu. When he became president, he cracked down on Kikuyu closing their banks and the financial institutions that held their wealth. He also purged them from the Civil service and destroyed the institutions that supported agricultural and other produce in what turned out to be a stolid bastardization of the economy. In the end, a once vibrant economy was brought to its knees because of feeling insecure. The Kikuyu hated Moi desperately but that wasn&rsquo;t for no reason, he had actually fixed them real good. Then came the clamour for pluralism which was largely driven by Kikuyu &lsquo;dissidents&rsquo; and so Moi feeling threatened, turned to his community for &lsquo;protection&rsquo; perpetuating an artificial hatred that would have disastrous consequences especially with election related violence. A most unlikely allianceFast track to 2013 and the Kikuyu and Kalenjin pulled a most unlikely political pact that saw two of their principles romp into power as a joint team. It suddenly dawned to them that they probably had more in common than they cared to admit. Trying to find the genesis of their differences, it turned out that they had been political pawns in a game of power which benefited them little. It was far better to work together than to fight each other. After the elections, a friend of mine quipped that he knew Kenya had 42 tribes only that the &lsquo;4&rsquo; was silent. Of course his preferred candidate had lost and he profusely blamed the Kalenjin for it. While indeed there was more than just the Kalenjin and the Kikuyu in the equation, it seemed like it was so because they had always been at odds with each other. Their win was a massive reversal of what Koigi wa Wamwere terms as &lsquo;negative ethnicity&rsquo; and the pact delivered a quiet and largely peaceful election. The Kikuyus and Kalenjins over the yearsIn the years before the coming of the Colonialists, the Kikuyu and Kalenjins were very close. They shared common cultural practices such as multi-gender circumcision which facilitated intermarriage. In fact the shared rite of circumcision is said to have been carried out on the Kikuyu by the Maina, Nyongi and Korongoro age-groups among the Kalenjins (the Kikuyu counterparts being Maina, Mwangi and Mu-Irungu respectively and in that order). The evidence of name sharing between the two communities is without dispute (and yes, the name &lsquo;Maina&rsquo; is Kalenjin in origin as is &lsquo;Mwangi&rsquo; and &lsquo;Irungu&rsquo;). (See &lsquo;Routledge &amp; Routledge&rsquo; (1968) and other anthropological literature on the Kikuyu).The uneasy relationship between the Kikuyu and Kalenjins started in the few years just before independence as the settlers began to feel the heat of the Mau Mau war. The settlers were keen to separate the two communities so that they do not ally themselves in the fight against Colonial rule. Rift Valley-based Kikuyus mainly squatters and migrant labourers were profiled, documented and monitored in the effort to contain the spread of the Mau Mau. It did not always work. The Kalenjin and Kikuyu worked ever so closely in the fight for Independence.The Kikuyu-Kalenjin alliance in the fight for IndependenceAfter returning from England in September 1946, Jomo Kenyatta immediately began working with a number of Kalenjin leaders to rally the community to join the fight to end colonial rule. In April 1947 just six months after arriving in Kenya, Kenyatta visited Kericho where he met with Solomon araap Mateget the founder of the first Kalenjin political party &ndash; the Kipsigis Central Association. Mateget was born in 1905 in Kericho and between 1919 and 1925 lived in Nanyuki where his parents had moved to as squatters. Here, he obtained an education and learnt the Kikuyu language and culture. He returned to Kericho in 1925 where he established an independent school affiliated with the Kikuyu Karinga Education Association. Naturally, he fell out with the authorities and was under constant monitoring for subversion. Mateget sent two of his sons and another 23 Kipsigis youth to Githunguri Teachers College to train as teachers paying the princely sum of &pound;150 in fees. The institution was at that time by managed by Mbiyu Koinange and Jomo Kenyatta. In the days that followed Kenyatta&rsquo;s visit to Kericho, Mateget founded an animistic African sect known as &lsquo;Dinit-ab Mbochet&rsquo; where he advocated for a return to African cultural practices and strongly denounced colonial rule. Mateget adopted Kikuyu oathing rituals and also incorporated a number of Kipsigis rites in his sect in what was clearly designed to align the Kalenjins to the soon-to-start Mau Mau war. He was assisted by another Kipsigis man named araap Marusin who had lived in Kiambu and like him, spoke fluent Kikuyu. Kenyatta and the KalenjinsIn May 1947, a Kikuyu postal worker in Kericho named Stephen Gaitho held a meeting in his house attended by Njoroge Kagunda the Kikuyu Central Association operative in Kericho and Nyanza. Kagunda clandestinely created important linkages for the banned KCA among the Kalenjins, the Abagusii and Luo at this time. The meeting at Gaitho&rsquo;s house was attended by Solomon araap Mateget and a close ally known as araap Cheklelich. It was here that Gaitho and Kagunda helped Mateget formulate the policies of the Kipsigis Central Association and trained his agenda for the fight for land rights and to make the call for an end to colonial rule. Cheklelich like Mateget and Marusin spoke fluent Kikuyu having lived in Kiambu for a number of years. The party was then launched just one month after Jomo Kenyatta had toured Kericho. Authorities noted Kenyatta&rsquo;s influence in the formation of the party and in the oathing practices it was carrying out. In fact Kenyatta wrote numerous letters to Mateget which were discovered after a police raid on Mateget. The letters contained incriminating evidence which would later be used when Kenyatta was incarcerated. Shortly after the raid, the colonial authorities arrested Mateget and banned his &lsquo;Dinit-ab Mbochet&rsquo; as well as the Kipsigis Central Association.It was clear from the letters discovered that Kenyatta had hoped to use the populous Kipsigis to rally the entire Kalenjin nation to join the fight for independence. Mateget was banished from Kericho by then DC Anthony Swann in 1948. He was detained in Nanyuki for a while before being exiled to Tanganyika in 1955 where he died some time later. Separating the Kikuyu and KalenjinsThe narrative of the Kikuyu as the common enemy of every Kenyan was part of the anti-Mau Mau propaganda through much of the 1950s. They were portrayed by the Colonials as dangerous, untrustworthy and prone to crime and being land/money hungry. Bloody events associated with them were displayed as evidence never mind that only a small portion of their populace was responsible. Kalenjins and other Kenyans were told to be wary and on the lookout for them. There are however many stories of how the Kalenjins secretly joined the ranks of the Mau Mau and supported the organization materially. In fact the rise of Moi was directly linked to the fight against Mau Mau activities in the Rift Valley. Moi&rsquo;s predecessor in the Legco John ole Tameno was forced to resign after a Kalenjin linkman George araap Katam whom he had entrusted with funds supposedly meant for the Mau Mau, was arrested and spilled the beans. It cost Tameno his job and Moi replaced him in 1955 an action that substantially changed the course of Kenya&rsquo;s history.The future of the Kikuyu-Kalenjin allianceThe Uhuruto pair have been criticized for dualizing the leadership of Kenya between two communities. Both represent the only two communities that have led the country since independence. According to Uhuruto, Kenyan&rsquo;s must wait until 2032 when the last of them has left power. They have not mentioned what will happen after that but your guess is as good as mine. According to statistical growth of Kenya&rsquo;s population, Kikuyus and Kalenjins will be the two largest communities by numbers at that time with the Kalenjins poised to be the largest by 2040. This means that their duopoly could still continue through a sheer &lsquo;tyranny of numbers&rsquo; so to speak. Keeping power in a small circle almost always distorts the methods used by those who are seeking power. If you read history, it is the stuff that coups or revolutions or assassinations are made of. Being that these are not too far away in our history, keeping power too long may just lead to open rebellion and possible disintegration.It would perhaps be much better to expand the base and incorporate more communities in their association. Critics of this approach state that you must raise tribal chiefs who will be the &lsquo;spokesmen&rsquo; of their communities and this therefore negates the whole idea of nationhood or considering oneself first as a Kenyan and then a member of an ethnic community next. It reverses the order. Kenya is ruled through interests not tribal arithmetic. In 2013, the Kikuyu and Kalenjin interests merged and was glued together by the ICC. Despite the absence of the indictment this time round, they are likely to still remain together now that they have defined their strategic interests in the presidency. There has been effort to have a rotational presidency which has been criticized as being diametrically opposed to democracy. All said, perhaps we should remind ourselves of a Ghanaian proverb which says that a bird that sits too long on a tree, is inviting a stone.