Hassan Joho drove four security officers out of his Mombasa home on Thursday, making good on his declaration that he did not need Jubilee's protection. The county boss said he was not sorry if lecturing President Uhuru Kenyatta on development projects is what caused the withdrawal of his security last Friday. More on this: I do not need your security, Joho tells Jubilee at charged Bomas rally The officers were&nbsp; freshly deployed to guard the Governor's home in Nyali but he kicked them out and locked his gate. The four, who were&nbsp;deployed on Monday night, had reported on Tuesday morning that they were not wanted at the residence. &ldquo;One of the brothers told us we were not needed,&rdquo; said one of the AP officers. But Richard Chacha, Joho's&nbsp;communications&nbsp;director, said the officers were sent to the wrong house. Chacha said his boss moved a day after his security was withdrawn under unclear circumstances."Let them knock and ask who the new occupants are," he said, adding Joho had already hired another team for his new home.The AP officers were spotted guarding the residence from outside but they later sat down, seemingly stranded. They noted they did not have access to washrooms and the other privileges they are entitled to.But they said they were just following orders as their seniors had told them to remain at Joho's home.In quick rejoinder, government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe said they might consider withdrawing the security. &ldquo;If a VIP does not want to be protected, we cannot force it. So the government might consider redeploying the officers to protect Kenyans who are in dire need of security," he said.Joho's&nbsp; bodyguards were taken away last Friday as he left with Cord leader Raila Odinga to Ghana for the inauguration of President Nana Akufo-Addo. He&nbsp;wrote a protest letter&nbsp;to IG Joseph Boinnet&nbsp;on Tuesday&nbsp;demanding the reinstatement of his bodyguards, denying reports that they had returned.Joho told the opposition's charged rally yesterday that his people will protect him. " I want to put a stop to this conversation about security. I have asked that they (Jubilee) should not give me security," he said. "I want to tell Jubilee... We do not need your security. We are people who believe in God," he also said. Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa issued an address on the security drama earlier on Wednesday, saying only drug dealers wanted more weapons. He said Joho should stop complaining as security operations affect all governors, who will now have five officers in their detail.More on this:&nbsp;[AUDIO] Only drug dealers want many guns, says Marwa&nbsp;Read:&nbsp; Joho, Kingi security withdrawal 'purely coincidental', says Boinnet&nbsp;