KUDOS!!! You finally have a Luhya nation spokesman. Am curious, were you consulted? Did you really need one? Was your choice considered? Has your &lsquo;psychic income&rsquo; been attained? To be fair, I hear a survey to determine the spokesman was done. Some transparency there. But R. Simmons will tell you something about surveys. They only show you how many people have a certain preference, but not the intensity of their preference. This is why it is possible that 49% of people may strongly oppose something, but are defeated by 51% who weakly oppose it. Votes do not measure intensity of political preference. I pose the above questions, not only to you, but to all the other 41 nations. In your nation, does a clique aka Council of Elders (CoE) exist? In the development discourse, they are referred to as &lsquo;gate keepers&rsquo;. Their Terms of Reference (TOR), have traditionally been to mediate disputes, resolve conflicts and shape opinions. They are guided by normative rather than codified law. Organically, a new TOR has emerged. That of being your nation&rsquo;s &lsquo;regulator&rsquo;. They &lsquo;regulate&rsquo; who will be your nation&rsquo;s spokesman or kingpin. This is camouflaged as your nation&rsquo;s unity. Any dissenting views are labeled &lsquo;enemies and detractors&rsquo; of your nation. But is it really unifying? If it is, then I would like to suggest it&rsquo;s a very slippery notion. Do you really need to rally behind one guy to unify your nation? Could the equilibrium sought after be reached through the invisible hand (A. Smith) of several mutually interdependent leaders and followers? Let me rehash your memory on a couple of hashtags that expressed your rage over the dominance of telecommunication, air travel and lighting service providers. You argued that it was a high time they got competition. You lamented that their dominance provided no incentive to improve the quality of their services or keep their prices down. You were indignant that as a consumer, you had no alternative but to continue paying patronage to them. A brilliant guy called M. Rothbard, would have been impressed with your hashtag discourse on monopoly. You see, he posits, as does Prof. Hutt, that you possess sovereignty. And that your supremacy ensures production of only those goods most demanded by you and your kind. Ultimately, you as the consumer and the producer mutually benefit from the resulting voluntary exchanges. I&rsquo;ll let L. Reed unpack monopoly further for you. One is coercive and the other efficiency. The former is birthed when a regulator grants it exclusive privilege. In doing so, he favors one side. This creates a barrier of entry for others. A coercive monopoly firm could harm consumers with no consequences accruing to it.By contrast, an efficiency monopoly is conceived by reaping as a reward, a large share of the consumers market. Not by favors from regulators, but by doing the best job. In this monopoly space, any firm is free to enter and compete. Resultantly, production is unrestricted, prices are lower, quality is improved and innovation increases. Your nation&rsquo;s &lsquo;regulator&rsquo; (CoE), grants that exclusive privilege to a single spokesman, thus making him a coercive monopoly. It therefore becomes very difficult, costly or impossible for your personal choice to enter the fray, no matter how convinced you are, that they would provide better alternative leadership. Despite promises, if your spokesman fails to deliver, you do not censure him. Instead, you condone his failure by rationalizing that it is orchestrated by outsiders. Do you know why your nation&rsquo;s kingpin has been able to extract a monopoly value of himself? Why he offers himself as the only option of taking you to Canaan? Because you have abdicated your sovereignty. You have made his value inelastic. This means that even when he decreases his productivity and quality of service (legislation and representation), he is still able to increase the price of his service (salaries), and you continue paying him (taxes). Through his coercively acquired monopoly, your nation&rsquo;s kingpin tacitly owns your sovereignty (will). He &lsquo;proceeds to the national stage to trade with other kingpins&rsquo; (W. Kipruto). He determines your collective value and sells you to the highest bidder. This is not in exchange for your needs, but in exchange for his wants. He uses your fiat (vote) to bargain for his and his cronies positions at the governing table. He dictates to you who to support and you buy his horse and sparrow theory; that if you feed the horse enough oats, the sparrow benefits from the horse shit. You are that sparrow.You puzzle me. On one hand, you demonize the emerging &lsquo;e-casinos&rsquo; (betting companies) and the inevitable youth entropy. You consider their actions immoral, and have unreservedly called them conmen. You have demanded that your representative (MP) enquires into their activities with regards to &ldquo;&hellip;.. benefits to the society&rdquo;. On the other hand, don&rsquo;t you realize that when your nation&rsquo;s kingpin trades with other kingpins, he is placing a &lsquo;bet&rsquo; and playing pata potea with your vote? But astonishingly, you seem okay with this horse trading, but not with the betting companies. The speeches at political rallies, funerals and houses of worship by your nation&rsquo;s politicians, are disguised as a rallying call. The reality however, is that they are intended to lull you into a lethargy, where you view competition as the antithesis of cooperation (L. Reed). This may seem counterintuitive but sadly, you have accepted otherism. You have supplanted your kingpins preferences over your own. Is it possible, you ask, to pivot this inelastic demand? Absolutely! Recall I told you that you have sovereignty. All it would require, is for you to get &lsquo;angry&rsquo; enough at yourself for being proselytized into these monopolistic actions. So, tell me, is it a case of multiple personality disorder or rational ignorance? That what you abhor about firms dominance, you accept, embrace and defend with political coercive monopolies?Hear me. It&rsquo;s neither. It&rsquo;s a case of cognitive mapping. But more on that another time. Am I right, or am I right? Susan Mugwe is a Political Economist smugwe@gmail.com