Aharubi Khatri, the man arrested by police on reports he is involved in illicit trade, now wants to sue Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa for defamation.Through lawyer Mohamed Balala, Khatri wants Marwa to apologise in the media and cease from making defamatory statements about him and interfering with the legal mandate of the National Police Service.Khatri was arrested on Friday in Mombasa in connection with alleged drugs trade and illegal possession of weapons.&ldquo;Note that this demand is personal to you and not in your capacity as a regional commissioner as such acts of defamation are clearly not within your legal mandate,&rdquo; reads a letter from Khatri.Balala told the Star Marwa has been served with the demand notice, a claim the Star could not independently verify. But Marwa said he was not aware of the letter or any defamation suit. &ldquo;Where is the letter? I&rsquo;ve not seen it. I&rsquo;m attending a meeting in Nairobi,&rdquo; Marwa said.On Friday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, accompanied by other politicians, protested against Khatri&rsquo;s arrest. Marwa accused Joho of trying to obstruct justice. The governor is said to be related to Khatri. &ldquo;Why must he [Joho] mobilise everybody to come rescue a potential drug baron who is wanted by everyone with several armouries in his house? Why was the governor so determined to rescue a drug baron who was in possession of more than three guns? What was the big agenda?&rdquo; Marwa said.Not under our watchMeanwhile, the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit has also distanced itself from Khatri&rsquo;s arrest. Senior ATPU detectives in Nairobi and Mombasa yesterday said they were not involved in investigating Khatri over any possible links to terrorism. Interpol Nairobi Bureau head Julius Martin also clarified on Sunday that Khatri is not on their wanted list. An intelligence website, claimed Kharti has been on the intelligence services radar for financing the activities of Harakat Al-Shabaab Mujahideen Movement arm of the Jaysh terror organisation behind past terrorist attacks in Kenya. But the ATPU officers said Kharti is not on their radar.&ldquo;He&rsquo;s not under our watch. We&rsquo;re yet to receive any intelligence reports linking him to terrorism. The DCI was behind his arrest,&rsquo; one ATPU officer said.On Monday, Joho warned that if any Mombasa resident is shot dead by police, they will demand justice. There has been a controversy over whether Joho was arrested and detained by police as he protested against Khatri&rsquo;s arrest. The county chief has maintained he, in the company of other politicians, was detained for several hours.At the weekend, IG Joseph Boinnet said they are probing Khatri for alleged smuggling of luxury vehicles from the UK in a syndicate. Khatri&rsquo;s bank accounts are being investigated.On Monday, senior officers confided Khatri is licensed to own guns, hence, it is not illegal for him to own more than three firearms, as alleged by Marwa.The Kenya Firearms Act sets no limit to the number of firearms one may own. It says misconduct by a firearms holder can lead to revocation of his licences, even if they were not involved in an incident.Questions have arisen about why Khatri was arrested as a &ldquo;most wanted&rdquo; suspect and then released on a Sh20,000 cash bail &mdash; without being charged.