Former Cabinet ministers and MPs are among the old guard planning to make a comeback in the August 8 general election, after years out in the cold.Some are going for governor and senator, while others will run for Parliament in constituencies they did not represent earlier. The positions are lucrative.In Nyanza former Rongo MP and Energy minister Ochilo Ayacko has declared his interest in running for Migori governor against incumbent Okoth Obado. He has said he has the experience and skills required to lift the county to &ldquo;greater heights&rdquo;.Ayacko has accused Obado of inaction and worse, saying he cannot account for billions of shillings in devolved funds, while residents are languishing in poverty.Former Education assistant minister in the Grand Coalition government Ayiecho Olweny says he will run for Muhoroni MP against Onyango Koyoo. Olweny was Muhoroni MP for two terms from 2002 to 2013.new partyFormer South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara wants to run for senator against incumbent Chris Obure.Former Kisumu Town West MP Ken Nyagudi will compete with Ken Obura for the Kisumu Central parliamentary seat. Nyagudi was elected Kisumu Town West MP in April 2004, after the death of MP Job Owino.Another politician who has switched constituencies is former Rangwe MP Otieno Ogindo, who will run for Homa Bay Town MP on the Green Congress of Kenya party ticket. He was Rangwe MP from 2008 to 2013. Last month Ogindo was sacked as Nairobi county economic planning, finance and strategy adviser &mdash; a day after launching his party.Governor Evans Kidero said Ogindo was in &ldquo;gross violation of his contract ... by involving himself in politics as opposed to professionally advising the county&rdquo;.sacked by countyOgindo wrote to Kidero, thanking him &ldquo;for the opportunity to serve&rdquo; and saying, I take full responsibility for my actions.&rdquo; He will run against Peter Kaluma, who defeated him in the 2013 polls. Ogindo has accused Kaluma of not developing the constituency. He said most of the projects he initiated as MP have stalled. &ldquo;Vote for me as your MP ... Through your support, I promise our opponents that we will defeat them,&rdquo; he said at the launch of his party in Homa Bay town.Former Migori MP Owino Likowa will run for senator against incumbent Wilfred Machage. He was defeated in 2007 by John Pesa and in 2013 by Junet Mohamed in Suna East. Also eyeing a comeback is former minister Mutua Katuku from Ukambani. He was Water and Irrigation minister, but lost his Mwala MP seat in 2007.