Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year 2016 schools category nominations have been announced.A total of 26 institutions (boys and girls) have been nominated in preliminary round of the awards, which are also being co-sponsored by NSSF, Communications Authority of Kenya, NHIF, Kenya Tourism Board, Kenya Pipeline and SuperSport/MultiChoice Kenya. Performance and diversity were key factors in selecting nominees in the schools category.In the girls&rsquo; category, Both Sinyolo (hockey), AIC Kosirai (volleyball), Tigoi Girls (hockey) and debutants Nairobi&rsquo;s Soweto Academy (volleyball) are among those nominated in the preliminary round. Others are Kerugoya (hockey, Kaya Tiwi (basketball) Moi Girls Kamusinga (handball), St. John&rsquo;s Kaloleni, Wiyeta (both football), Buruburu (basketball), Nyakach (football), Lugulu and Sega (both volleyball).Both Sinyolo hockey and AIC Kosirai volleyball had a successful year, bagging the national and East Africa top gongs in their respective disciplines. Sinyolo won both titles unbeaten despite minimal success in basketball and volleyball. They also produced Melda Awuor as the Most Valuable Player, both at the national and regional games. AIC Kosirai&rsquo;s setter Nelly Jepchumba was also voted the MVP at the nationals.Tigoi (hockey) and debutants Nairobi&rsquo;s Soweto Academy (volleyball) settled for silver both at the nationals and regional competitions, only losing to the champions. Kerugoya won bronze medals at both the nationals and East Africa games, and also had a dimmed presence in volleyball and basketball in Aberdare region.Making their maiden appearance at the schools&rsquo; extravaganza, Kaya Tiwi basketball won the national title unbeaten from the sub-county level, and went on to grab the East Africa trophy. The school&rsquo;s netball team too won the nationals, but crushed out in the group stages of the regional.The boys&rsquo; shortlist include Friends School Kamusinga (hockey), Upper Hill (basketball), Barding Boys (football), Friends School Bukembe (football) and Laiser Hill (football &amp; rugby). Others are Malava Boys (volleyball), Kapenguria (basketball), St. Luke&rsquo;s Kimilili (handball), Cheptil (volleyball), Kakamega (rugby 15s) and St. Peter&rsquo;s Mumias (rugby 7s), Moi High School Sirgoi (rugby) and St. Peter&rsquo;s Chesirikwa (handball).Kamusinga won the national and East Africa hockey title while Upper Hill&rsquo;s diversity saw the school field four teams (basketball, hockey and rugby 15s and sevens) at the nationals. Upper Hill won the national basketball trophy and settled for bronze at the regionals. They finished second in rugby Sevens nationally and third in East Africa as hockey team finished in positions three and four respectively.East Africa football holders, Barding Boys were placed second at the nationals as little known Friends School Bukembe defied form book, upsetting former champions&mdash;St. Anthony&rsquo;s Kitale and Kakamega High&mdash;at the Nzoia region and went on to finish fourth at the nationals and FEASSSA games. 2015&rsquo;s School of the Year winner and the national football and rugby sevens champions Laiser Hill also made it to the nominees. Their basketball team side narrowly lost to Upper Hill at the Metropolitan games and were locked out of the nationals.Schools player of the year attracted 20 players&mdash;10 girls and 10 boys drawn from both team and individual sports. In the girls category, Melda Awuor, Nelly Jepchumba, Judy Nkatha, Hadassa Gichovi, Mwanahalima Adams, Kelly Antrobus, Judith Musimbi, Heti Viharia, Lilian Odero and Jacinta Leli made to the preliminary list.The boys class saw Justine Ng&rsquo;etich, Eliphas Makuto, Wiseman Aganya, Mark Kang&rsquo;ethe, Lawrence Okong&rsquo;o Allan Singar, Said Abdala, Derick Akwona, John Odinga and Isaac Kololi make the cut. The battle for &lsquo;Coach of the Year&rsquo; drew Alloys Owino,Rose Anyango, Richard Soi, Phillip Onyango, Emmanuel Sanya, Shadrack Tovoko, Eric Chebutala, David Kalamu, Arnold Sitati and Edward Butala.