Striking doctors have less than 24 hours to resume work or be sacked, governors have said. Medics who do not resume work tomorrow will receive disciplinary letters, asking them to state why they should not be sacked. The medics will have just one week to respond to those letters, after which they may be sacked and their positions advertised immediately. &ldquo;County public service boards have been instructed to apply the relevant processes to commence the dismissal process and to recover any money that may have been paid to any doctors that has not been working,&rdquo; Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya said. He spoke yesterday after a five-hour meeting attended by most governors at the council's offices in Nairobi. Munya said the Sh4 billion offer made by President Uhuru Kenyatta last week was reasonable and final. He urged the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists' Union to sign recognition agreements with the 47 counties and negotiate a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. KMPDU said the threat to fire medics was regrettable. "It's unfortunate that the county governments solution to ending this 36-day strike is by firing doctors. Highly regrettable," officials tweeted yesterday.Labour Court judge Monica Mbaru last October ruled that the 2013 CBA signed by doctors and the Ministry of Health is obsolete because it lacked the input of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and county governments, who employ 80 per cent of all doctors. She directed KMPDU to negotiate a new CBA within 90 days so it can be registered in court. However, the union called a strike barely two months after the ruling demanding that the government implements the old CBA, which gives them a 300 per cent pay rise. KMPDU officials are expected in court today for sentencing after Justice Hellen Wasilwa found them guilty of continuing an illegal strike. The doctors rejected a 40 per cent salary hike offered by the President last week, which raised the monthly pay of an intern from Sh126,000 to Sh196,000. The government had also offered Sh5 million car loans, Sh20 million mortgage and a pot of Sh11 million for doctors' training. &ldquo;Despite the efforts made by both the national and county governments, the doctors' union has rejected the government offers. However, CoG still remains committed to resolving this stalemate,&rdquo; Munya said. About 3,500 doctors are on strike, which now enters day 37. Health CS Cleopa Mailu joined governors for the press briefing yesterday. &ldquo;We have already met 90 per cent of demands in the CBA and the only contention is the salaries and allowances,&rdquo; he said.The strike has not affected Marsabit, Bomet, Nakuru, Lamu, Garissa and Tana River counties, where most doctors are still working.