President Uhuru Kenyatta will tour the Coast next week to mobilise residents to register as voters. He spent the last week of last year and the first week of this year at the Coast, launching projects, despite criticism from some opposition leaders. Uhuru will also drum up support for his Jubilee Party, which on Friday launched a membership smart card. The President will also inspect the Lamu Port and the Malindi Airport.Jubilee leaders at the Coast yesterday said they will leave nothing to chance. They said they have a strategy to dislodge the opposition. Coast is an opposition stronghold. The strategy includes capitalising on projects implemented by Jubilee, ensuring voters register in large numbers, forming committees, replacing anti-government heads of Nyumba Kumi, conducting free and fair primaries and deploying security officers at polling centres during the election.How Jubilee will replace the heads of Nyumba Kumi with their loyalists is a closely guarded secret.Hands downKilifi North MP Gideon Munga&rsquo;ro, the Jubilee point man, said they will beat Cord hands down. &ldquo;We are planning to win big this time. Our message is simple, voters should just make a comparison of what Cord, under its leader Raila Odinga, has done and what the President has done,&rdquo; he said.Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s legal adviser Anania Mwaboza said Jubilee is mostly concerned with free and fair nominations.The opposition has called the shots at the Coast since Independence, but the Jubilee government is assembling its machinery to turn the tables.But Mung&rsquo;aro said historically, Coast was allied to Kanu, before it shifted allegiance to Narc and then ODM. &ldquo;Coast people were not meant to be in the opposition when they were born. It is not written in their birth certificates that they should die in the opposition. I believe time is ripe for them to leave Cord for Jubilee,&rdquo; he said. Ward committeesThe ward committees, the leaders said, are critical because they have direct contact with voters. Mwaboza said the committees will be made up of primaries&rsquo; losers and opinion leaders. They will be formed immediately after the nominations. Each will have a maximum of 20 members. Mwaboza said the outcome of the nominations will determine if the government scoops additional seats and votes at the Coast than it got in 2013. Uhuru got 158,083 votes against Raila&rsquo;s 612,057 votes.Munga&rsquo;ro said foot soldiers will list the projects undertaken by the Jubilee administration and let the voters decide. &ldquo;Sometimes I wonder when people say they haven&rsquo;t seen any projects. We have the Mariakani, Malindi, Taveta, Mwatate and Kaloleni roads that are completed. The government has spent Sh100 billion on roads alone,&rdquo; he said.