Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has moved from his palatial home in Nyali, days after the government withdrew his security. Joho told an opposition rally on Wednesday that he did not need Jubilee's security and that his people would protect him.The seemingly fearless Governor noted he drove himself to the meeting at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi.[VIDEO] Joho chases freshly deployed security from Nyali homeThere were reports that AP officers deployed to his home, which is a few metres from Nyali police station, were chased away. Administration Police officers outside Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's home in Nyali. /ELKANA JACOBFour officers were seen outside the home&nbsp;while inside, a new occupant who identified himself as Mohammed Khamisi said frequent police visits surprised him. "I moved in six days ago when Governor Joho shifted. I do not need any guards since I have my own private guards from a security firm," he said. "I am Joho's distant relative and I am the new tenant. I now occupy this house. I do not plan to take any action but ask whoever is responsible for the security to [tell them] I am not in need." Mohammed Khamis, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's relative, who says he has moved into his home in Nyali. /ELKANA JACOBJoho's close confidants said he found a new home as he felt he could no longer live in the Nyali house. After his security was withdrawn, the county boss wrote a protest letter to IG Joseph Boinnet demanding their return. Richard Chacha, his communications director, said the security was deployed to the wrong house."The AP guards went to the wrong house and that is where they have been since Monday night. The Governor shifted some days back," he said. The entrance to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's home in Nyali. /ELKANA JACOBJoho had lived in the house for the last six years. Unconfirmed reports indicated he moved without his valuables.[VIDEO] Joho chases freshly deployed security from Nyali homeRead: I do not need your security, Joho tells Jubilee at charged Bomas rally