Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko has accused a Nairobi politician of&nbsp;trying to wreck his marriage and letting residents down in the race for governor. Sonko excited a crowd in Kariokor in a campaign address about "mama mmoja ambaye milimchagua afanyie wamama kazi (a woman you chose to represent other women)".&nbsp; He said the politician did not fulfill the mandate of representing other women and spent her time in office snatching husbands."Hata&nbsp;mimi nakumbuka siku moja karibu avunje nyumba yangu (She almost ruined my marriage)," he said, without naming her. "Saa hiii amechukua MCA mwingine kule.. amemnyanganya MCA bibi yake. Sisi&nbsp;ni watu tunamcha Mungu sana, tunaogopa Mungu.. Wamama wengine waheshimiwe," he continued.(She has now snatched an MCA's wife... We are godly people... We fear God... All women should be respected.)Sonko said in the Monday address that the politician should have focused on the promises she made members of the public during campaigns before the 2013 general election.The Senator further said the MP and her colleagues have been paid millions to back some Jubilee candidates. He said she decided not to vie since she realised she will not get the support of women, but has opted to back another candidate. "Ni&nbsp;kama amejua kuwa wamama wa Nairobi wamemkasirikia&nbsp;(It seems she knows Nairobi women are not happy)," he said.Read: Peter Kenneth makes Nairobi governor bid official as cliques draw battle linesSonko, an aspirant for the Nairobi governor seat, said he would not "sell" city residents and would accept a defeat in the poll. "Nairobi ni kubwa kunishinda (Nairobi is greater than I am)," he said, adding that he will not let the citizens down, like the woman MP did. Sonko has also criticised former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, saying he is a "foreigner" who should not be allowed to join the race.He also said the politician from Murang'a county should apologise to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the country, over the ICC case.Read: 'Foreigners' not welcome to Nairobi governor race - SonkoAlso read: Peter Kenneth wanted Uhuru jailed at ICC, must apologise to Kenyans - Sonko