World Sevens Series top try scorer Collins Injera and experienced forward Oscar Ouma have been recalled to the Kenya Sevens squad for the Wellington and Sydney tournaments later this month.Making the announcement yesterday, Kenya Sevens head coach, Innocent Simiyu, said the players experience will be key in navigating a tricky Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; that also has top seeds England, Argentina and Papua New Guinea.&ldquo;They have trained well for the past three weeks and they are in better shape than they were before. We went to Dubai and Cape Town without them and we hope their inclusion will give us a lift in the two tournaments,&rdquo; added Simiyu. Homeboyz utility back Bush Mwale also makes return after missing the two opening tournaments as the technical bench favoured the bigger and versatile KCB forward Martin Owila last time. Quins&rsquo; play-maker Eden Agero is also in the mix for the first time this season with his last tournament coming a year ago at the in New Zealand and Australia legs while Impala&rsquo;s Sammy Oliech makes the cut after passing a fitness test on his knee recently. Simiyu said the 12-man squad is a blend of youth and experience. &ldquo;We have very formidable squad and I expect us to gain more points and look at moving up the table,&rdquo; he added. The tactician expects a physical Argentina and England to offer stern test to his Shujaa outfit. &ldquo;Argentina are coming from playing a tournament in their own country and their brand of rugby is forwards driven and so we must be smart on how we play them. England won the last leg in Cape Town and will be tough to beat and Papua New Guinea are unknown quantity. Our tactics will vary from game to game to keep the opposition guessing,&rdquo; added Simiyu. On the issue of kickoff, reception and converting for points, Simiyu said the team has worked extra hard on that. &ldquo;The players involved have had extra sessions on kicking and the kickoff reception and so we should be able to improve on those areas in Wellington and Sydney,&rdquo; he added. Captain Andrew Amonde said the team is on an upward curve after getting 12 point in Cape Town in the last tournament. &ldquo;We are improving and with the return of Injera and Ouma in the squad, we should be able to go even further in Wellington and do the country proud,&rdquo; added Amonde.It is expected that the players will sign their contracts when they come back from Sydney in two weeks time. The team leaves on Sunday.Squad: Andrew Amonde (KCB), Willy Ambaka (Quins), Oscar Ouma (Nakuru), Dan Sikuta (Kabras), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Brian Tanga (Kabras), Leonard Mugaisi (Homeboyz), Eden Agero (Quins), Augustine Lugonzo (Homeboyz), Sammy Oliech (Impala), Billy Odhiambo, Collins Injera (Mwamba), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Management: Innocent Simiyu (head coach), Ian Gibbons( strength and conditioning), Lameck Bogonko (physio) and Erick Ogweno (team manager).