An Eldoret lawyer has dismissed former MP Mark Too's autopsy results and made a new claim about a plot to kill his first wife.A postmortem confirmed Too died from a heart problem shortly after lawyer Simon Lilan alleged said&nbsp;he may have been poisoned. Lilan said he will push for an independent investigation into the former Nominated MP's death, and the claim that there was a plan to assassinate his widow Mary after he died on December 31.The lawyer said he found Mary suffering breathing problems and high blood pressure when he visited their home immediately after Too's demise.Lilan,&nbsp;a relative who represented the ex-MP in several cases, &nbsp;said a woman who was at the home was stopped from pouring cold water on Mary.&ldquo;She would have collapsed and died if the water had been poured on her. I asked that she be taken to hospital and put her in my car but some of those present transferred her to another car which was driven at terrible speed to hospital," he said on Wednesday. He said Mary was taken to&nbsp;Mediheal Hospital in Eldoret town, from where she reportedly told him she was lucky to be alive. The lawyer claimed the woman said the reckless driving could have resulted in her death. Lilan first claimed that Too may have been give a poison that killed him slowly, over political matters and his wealth which includes 25,000 acres of land. The family warned him through spokesman and burial committee&nbsp; chairman&nbsp; Jacob Yego. Too's second wife Sophie has also called for an end to speculation&nbsp;surrounding&nbsp;the death. Yego, who was accompanied by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, issued a second warning asking the lawyer to stop frustrating the family, when the postmortem results were announced on Tuesday. Too's family members have said the results of the exam carried out at Lee Funeral Home by chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor were satisfactory. &ldquo;Let him report to police if he has information that will prove what he is claiming," said Sudi. &nbsp;Lilan said he would write to DPP Keriako Tobiko concerning an independent probe into the former MP's death.&ldquo;I know what I am saying and you can identify a killer when you look at one. With time the truth will come out. Some of Too&rsquo;s property has already been transferred but we will follow up to ensure it is safe," he said.The lawyer said all of the MP's property belongs to his first wife. He claimed Too acquired all his assets by working for Mary's family &nbsp;but revealed he did not know about a will.Too collapsed at his home and was rushed to the St Lukes Hospital in Eldoret where he was pronounced dead. His body was later transferred to Nairobi, the family saying this was to make it easier for his family and friends to view his body.But Lilan said the transfer was part of a plot to cover up his murder.&nbsp;The lawyer insisted on a separate investigation but said his intention is not to block Too's burial which has been set for Monday at his farm next to Eldoret International Airport. [AUDIO] Blood vein rupture killed Mark Too, exam shows after lawyer's poisoning claim