When one walks around Nakuru County in all the eleven parliamentary constituencies, popular opinion is that all current leaders must go. But why would so many people be unanimous that all the current leaders ought to go. The Kikuyu have a proverb that says, &ldquo;when the lead sheep limps, the flock does not reach pastures.&rdquo; The consequence of people not reaching development is a demand by them that all the incumbent and guilty leaders must go and be replaced by others who are healthy, non-limping and will take people to greener pastures. This then is the genesis of the popular opinion in Nakuru County that all the current leaders must go. But has Kinuthia Mbugua, the governor of Nakuru County, failed to actualize development in Nakuru County? Despite having a minimum of 45 billion shillings for the last five years, the kind of money Nakuru people have never seen, before and after independence, the truth is that there is very little development to show for the money. But where is evidence of this failure of development in Nakuru County? For those of us who live in Nakuru County and remember how lack of development looked five years ago before the establishment of the current county government, when we look everywhere, trading centers, towns and rural villages look today exactly what they looked five years ago or worse. Had Kinuthia government developed Nakuru County, there would be evidence of that development in big schools, a new industry in every constituency, new hospitals, better tarmac roads people, water projects and more advanced agriculture everywhere. As it is, none of this evidence of development is available anywhere in Nakuru County. Only same poverty is visible everywhere. Instead of evidence of collective development and increased individual prosperity for common people, only private development of individual leaders is available in land they have bought, storied high buildings for renting, hotels and commercial buildings they now own far from home for concealment. Despite county government having billions of money and Constituency Development Fund having far lesser money than county government, the only projects one sees around are CDF not County government. Total failure of the Nakuru elected Senator is the other reason people desire total removal of the current county leadership. Despite wisdom of the proverb that &ldquo;the silent one loses his homestead, long before the one who speaks out&rdquo;, Nakuru Senator never says a word in the Senate in defense or representation of the Nakuru people. Indeed the most audible silence of Nakuru Senator has denied Nakuru people a voice and representation in the Senate and elsewhere. And because the elected Senator has chosen silence over speech &ldquo;he is like a watchdog that does not bark &ndash; he only lies about and dreams. How he loves to sleep!&rdquo; Because the Senator does not speak in protection of people&rsquo;s money in the county government, it is all eaten by greedy leaders and Nakuru people are left in abject poverty. Indeed the Senator is like a dog that does not bark. He does not protect our money or chase away dogs. Other than letting our money be stolen, the elected Senator has also taken away our voice in the Senate and begrudged us our democratic right of representation in the Senate that we fought so hard for. For no other reason, our elected Senator must lose his job as Senator of Nakuru County. To clean the stables of Nakuru county government, people must also vote out Speaker and MCAs for their extraordinary greed, eating the loot, incredible misuse of county funds through wasteful travels abroad. Initially, there was a lot of infighting and instability in the county between the governor and Speaker because county government and county assembly could not agree on how to share the loot. Later there was peace when County Executive, Speaker and MCAs in the Assembly agreed on how to eat county funds. Of course agreement on how to share the loot was made possible by the connivance or total inaction of the elected Senator who has the responsibility to oversight the use of county funds. Having eaten together, the guilt of robbing county funds must be shared by governor, county government, Senator, Speaker and MCAs who should all be voted out if there will be a stoppage of robbery, cleaning the county stables and a new government that will serve the people and develop the county. Whoever has eaten from the pot of Nakuru county funds is guilty of robbing people and should neither be elected nor re-elected. Without the governor, the Senator, Speaker or MCAs protecting county funds, the people of Nakuru County have no protectors. The MPs who would have been their alternative protectors are now accused by the Controller and Auditor General of losing 48 million, 33 million, 74 million and 20 million that should all have gone to help the people. This then is the logic behind people&rsquo;s demand that all leaders in Nakuru County should be replaced with a slate of cleaner leaders whose understanding of leadership is not opportunity to rob but a privilege to serve and protect the people.