THE first multiparty General Election in Kenya since the 1960s was held on Tuesday December 29, 1992, following the huge clamour for the restoration of political pluralism.It was the first multiparty poll since the Independence General Election of Tuesday May 18 and Sunday May 26, 1963. The 1992 race was also the first time Kenyans saw a Presidential ballot paper and a race for State House.That first poll of the multiparty era was remarkable for featuring two strong Kikuyu candidates ranged against Kanu&rsquo;s President Daniel arap Moi &ndash; former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba and former Vice President Mwai Kibaki. Also in the race was a titan of Kenya politics, the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, the founding Vice President.A hopelessly divided Opposition gave Moi a minority win. The President garnered 1,354,645 votes, only 36.6 per cent of the vote. Matiba and Kibaki got 1,354,856 and 1,035,507, or 25.1 per cent and 19.6 per cent respectively. Combined Matiba and Kibaki accounted for 45.3 per cent of the vote. If Odinga Snr&rsquo;s tally of 903,886 (or 17.1 per cent) were added to Matiba and Kibaki&rsquo;s, the Opposition had a whopping 3,294,249 votes or a smashing 62.4 per cent of the vote. It would take Kibaki&rsquo;s defeat of Uhuru Kenyatta at the 2002 General Election for a winning candidate in a Kenyan Presidential race to score above 60 per cent.The lessons of disunity and minority victoriesPresident Moi gave the Opposition an object lesson in lack of unity: Divided they fell flat on their faces.It was a lesson that would take years to sink in, for he beat the Opposition again in the 1997 race, his last as a contender. By that time, Odinga Snr was dead and Matiba was no longer a contender. Moi cruised into a 40.40 per cent victory, garnering 2,500,865 votes against Kibaki&rsquo;s 1,911,742, or 30.89 per cent.When Kenya finally held its first Presidential transition multiparty poll in 2002, the lessons of disunity and minority victories had finally sunk in, with a vengeance. The outgoing President Moi made a son of the first President, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, his preferred successor &ndash; Uhuru. Moi&rsquo;s choice rent Independence party Kanu well and truly asunder. Hundreds of key members joined an exodus out of Kanu spearheaded by the then immediate former Vice President George Saitoti, former Secretary General Joseph Kamotho and former Foreign Affairs minister Kalonzo Musyoka. Also at the head of this headlong stampede was Raila Odinga, at that time the leader of the National Development Party.President Moi&rsquo;s &ldquo;Project Uhuru&rdquo;The National Rainbow Alliance was formed expressly to prevent President Moi&rsquo;s &ldquo;Project Uhuru&rdquo; from succeeding him. Narc was the first time the Kenyan Opposition came up with a formula for what is known in the United States as the Big Tent party. The Democratic Party of the USA is a Big Tent organization that houses the interests of Blacks, Latinos, women, LGBT and many, many other special interests. And Narc worked wonders. On a registered voter basis of 10,451,150 and a turnout of 57 per cent, Kibaki of the National Rainbow Coalition garnered 3,646,277votes, or 61.3 per cent, burying Uhuru of the Kenya African National Union, who got 1,835,890 votes, or 30.2 per cent, and Simeon Nyachae of Ford&ndash;People, who received only 345,152 votes, or 5.9 per cent and never stood again. James Orengo of the Social Democratic Party managed only 24,524 votes, or 0.4 per cent.The National Super Alliance &ndash; or NASA &ndash; the brainchild of Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, a one-time Vice-President of Kenya and Deputy Prime Minister, is the closest to the Narc juggernaut that the Opposition has come to for 15 years. Until NASA, the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy was a mostly dysfunctional three-party group. The Orange Democratic Movement, the Wiper Party and the Ford Kenya party did not constitute a Big Tent organization, a supporter had to find his or her way into one of the three.NASA comprises 16 parties. Based on this, Cord was not a fully inclusive political organization. But its loose ends have been absorbed into NASA, a truly Big Tent organization on the American model. In contrast to this, even with all their razzmatazz and their digital smartcard and this and that, the fact still remains that the ruling Jubilee Party and its 11 constituent parties are a monolithic organization on the moribund Soviet or the inflexible Chinese Communist Party model. Not the traditional coalition of political partiesIt should be noted that there are some fundamental differences between today&rsquo;s NASA, and the NARC of 2002.First, NARC was a last-minute affair; a coming together of political leaders whose sole objective was to prevent Uhuru Kenyatta from succeeding President Daniel Moi. NASA is not the traditional coalition of political parties. NASA (or the Muungano Maalum, in Kiswahili) according to its own confidential &ldquo;white paper&rdquo; is defined as &ldquo;a vehicle of building partnerships among communities/regions, political parties and other organized, and informal groups including trade unions, business community and employers, civil society, self-help groups of communities, women and youth organizations, Chamas, transport associations, religious organizations, and student organizations". And as for objectives, NASA &ldquo;seeks to reclaim the country from Jubilee misrule and abdication of responsibility and collusion in overbearing runaway corruption, and dwindling state of Kenya&rsquo;s economy&rdquo; but is also a &ldquo;partnership that seeks to provide democratic, transparent and inclusive governance that is accountable in the management of the economy and delivery of social services in accordance with the tenets of the devolution system of governance embedded in the Constitution of Kenya 2010 through accountable, responsible and responsive leadership&rdquo;Jubilee is in power, yes, and enjoys some of the benefits of incumbency, but its format of &ldquo;you are either with us or against us&rdquo; increasingly reads more like a fatal flaw than a pillar of strength. As for JP&rsquo;s generational change of leadership transition model, whereby Uhuru serves a full 10-year two terms followed by Ruto also for a decade, accounting for 20 uninterrupted years of Kenyans&rsquo; time, that too is a non-starter, given the genius of NASA&rsquo;s proposed inclusivity and passing of the baton. Jubilee&rsquo;s monolithic, inflexible and exclusivist stances smack of Kanu&rsquo;s 39-year-long hold on power, which Kenyans were so thoroughly sick and tired with that they could not stomach the very idea of Moi perpetuating himself through Uhuru, hence Narc&rsquo;s huge and unambiguous victory.Fundamental weakness of monolithic behaviorJubilee&rsquo;s idea of inclusiveness is still intolerably exclusionary. President Uhuru has said very plainly that whoever does not get the ticket will still get a job &ndash; in the bureaucracy and the state corporation sector. This is still the Chinese Communist Party style. A fundamental weakness of such monolithic behavior is that it shuts out the vast majority in the country, and yet democratic election outcomes are based on the majoritarian principle.In the gathering of the Presidential votes for the March 4 2013 General Election, the unprecedented voter turnout was motivated by a strong reaction to the threat of the Kenyan cases at the International Criminal Court and the perception that imperialistic foreigners were interfering unduly in Kenyan politics and that Uhuru&rsquo;s archrival Raila had been preselected by said foreigners. However, on August 8, 2017, there is no ICC factor and local politics and issues will dominate, particularly the veritable plague of corruption on JP&rsquo;s watch. A monolithic party tutored mostly by the Chinese Communist Party will actually dampen rather than enervate turnout in its so-called strongholds.Even fiercely pro-Jubilee political analysts who use their own brains can see the danger in this. Ngunjiri Wambugu &ndash; who corresponds regularly for The Star newspaper and puts across the JP case cogently &ndash; has taken to urging that the ruling party not force every Kikuyu and every Kalenjin to join it; that there should be room for smaller parties, particularly given Kenya&rsquo;s history of party primaries rigging.Second, third and fourth most popular candidates in Jubilee strongholdsWriting in The Star on September 5, 2016, under the headline &ldquo;No party-hopping negatively affects Uhuru's 2017 vote&rdquo;, Ngunjiri averred, &ldquo;Jubilee and Cord MPs have passed a bill that will stop aspirants from changing parties should they lose nomination. This law is meant to instill party discipline. However it will negatively affect President Kenyatta's presidential vote mobilization in 2017&hellip;the President&rsquo;s team should be more interested in the fact that what the bill does is essentially force the second, third and fourth most popular candidates in Jubilee strongholds, to stop active grass-root campaigns.Even if they all accept the nomination results and commit to support the winning candidate they will disband their campaigns and voter mobilization networks. Some of their key supporters will also not bother turning up at the main election, especially close friends and relatives who travelled far to register in the respective constituencies in a bid to support these candidates.&rdquo;Whereas the only potential splintering in NASA is at the elite level, JP is virtually guaranteed to splinter at the grassroots, where the votes are cast. If Western Kenya leaders like Mudavadi and Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula were to fall out, they still have their parties intact with which to pursue their political ambitions; however upset they are, they will still likely back NASA&rsquo;s Presidential candidate. Jubilee has left itself no room for such flexibility or manoeuvre. In JP, you are either in or out, and once having dissolved your party and merged it with the ruling monolith you have absolutely no fallback position, given the new rules that apply to party hoppers. &ldquo;The greater unifier&rdquo;It was therefore a major coup and a stroke of genius and good timing for ANC leader Mudavadi to have brought together 16 political parties who retain their individual identities even after the Bomas meeting and who have a common objective that can be summarized in just three key points:One, to demonize JP as the party of corruption and non-inclusivity that is taking Kenya back 20 years to the darkest days of the Moi era, and its minority victories redundancy.Two, to present NASA as the most viable option of a group led by leaders who played a key role in the Grand Coalition Government that brought about the most widespread prosperity yet among Kenyans. In that administration, Raila was Prime Minister, Kalonzo the 10th and last Vice President and Mudavadi one of two DPMs.Three, to take this message all over the country and to use it as the fulcrum with which to generate the most spectacular voter registration ever undertaken in the history of Kenyan electioneering. And then turnout the vote on August 8 in such a way that minority Presidential election outcomes projected as wins become things of the past. In all this, the great winner as of this point is no doubt the former Deputy Prime Minster, Musalia Mudavadi.His role in the creation of NASA, is that of &ldquo;the greater unifier&rdquo; &ndash; the man who helped find a way to bring all those who seek a change of government into one really big tent.Whether he is finally chosen as the opposition coalition&rsquo;s single presidential candidate or not, he still stands to reap immense political capital, as the man who came up with the right idea, at the right time.