Nelson Marwa has claimed only those who deal in drugs require many guns to protect their trade.During a press briefing on Wednesday, the&nbsp;visibly agitated Coast regional coordinator asked residents to report to him if they "see somebody carrying two guns". "Are they protecting heroin, cocaine? Kwani bunduki ni za nini?&nbsp;Si ni kuprotect heroin na cocaine ((What are the guns for?&nbsp;It is to protect heroin and cocaine)...if you see someone carrying two guns you should know that is an international dangerous criminal," he said."That is a very dangerous individual and he must be dealing in drugs ... We are&nbsp;cracking down on drugs. Guns are used to protect drug barons," he continued.He noted the only people they were arresting were drug&nbsp;barons, suppliers and brokers. Read: Joho, his family have over 19 guns - OmarMarwa said Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was not special and accused him &nbsp;of playing victim in&nbsp;his security withdrawal saga. He&nbsp; said Joho has employed tactics in his own favour yet all governors have been affected by security changes. "W hat is so special about Joho?&nbsp; ... ni mwananchi ... na siwezi kukuambia ni nani &nbsp;(He is just a citizen... I cannot tell you who he is)," he said. Marwa added that the Governor should not be complaining as al l governors will be allocated only five officers. "If you are not&nbsp;dealing&nbsp;in drugs&nbsp;na hujawahi iba sadaka ... wasi wasi yako itakuwa wapi (If you are not&nbsp;dealing&nbsp;in drugs&nbsp;in drugs and have never stolen church offering, why all the worry)?" he asked. The regional coordinator said Kenya will step into the August 8 general election&nbsp;while law and order are being maintained.&nbsp; "Anybody who wants to challenge me&nbsp;[can even go to the ICC]. I will&nbsp;shock you guys ... You have never seen me&nbsp;drunk and I am very&nbsp; sober," he &nbsp;said,. Joho said in February last year that he was a law-abiding citizen who has never cut corners to earn his wealth.He dismissed as political propaganda claims that he engages in the illicit drug trade, saying &ldquo;those behind the dirty politics aimed at mudslinging my name will never succeed&rdquo;.More on this:&nbsp;My business is clean, says JohoAlso read:&nbsp;Joho: The man with nine livesMarwa's remarks came shortly after Senator Hassan Omar&nbsp; demanded an audit&nbsp;of Joho's firearms. Omar called for Joho's security detail to be reduced according to the guidelines issued by the office of the IG."What is Joho afraid of? Joho has 15 guards, plus his cronies in the convoy who each have a gun. During public rallies they move around and are always trying to intimidate the public by showing off their guns," he said on Tuesday."The guns each have 15 bullets, which is about 450 bullets in Joho's convoy ... that is an armoury... not for security," he added.Joho&nbsp;wrote a protest letter&nbsp;to IG Joseph Boinnet demanding the reinstatement of his bodyguards.Through his lawyer, Joho told Boinnet on Tuesday that he had 24 hours to act on the matter, failure to which he would be sued for taking away the security detail.In the letter by Dennis Mosota, the governor demands that the government gives an equivocal written assurance that it will take responsibility in case anything happens to him.The governor's bodyguards were pulled out on Friday, some hours after he left with Cord leader Raila Odinga to Ghana for the inauguration of President Nana Akufo-Addo. Media reports indicated that those of Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and Kilifi speaker Jimmy Kahindi&nbsp;were also withdrawn.This emerged amid reports that Vigilance House had reinstated Joho's security; information that Mombasa Director of Communications Richard Chacha disputed.Joho's lawyer also dismissed reports that the governor's security detail had been reinstated, adding it was just an impression the government wanted to create.Read: Just Who Is Nelson Marwa?