One of the most talked about and loved up couples of 2016, Prezzo and Michelle Yola broke up, something that came as a shock to their fans since they were hardly together for a year after he proposed. Prezzo - real name - Jackson Makini went down on one knee in May 2016 to ask the love of his life, Michelle Yola to marry him and of course, she said yes, but that wasn't a guarantee that she was going to marry him eventually, right? Just a promise. The two are also reality stars on Kenya's most dramatic reality show, Nairobi Diaries and have been showing off their romance on TV seemingly happy until December 2016 when Miss Yola took to her social media to declare herself; "single and ready to mingle". Michelle Yola then went on a rampage, revealing that Prezzo had cheated on her and even shared screenshots of the said lass. She also shared more screenshots of Prezzo apologizing and begging her to forgive him and give the rapper one last chance. But his pleas seem to have fallen on deaf ears, because this time round, Michelle Yola has moved on for good. The two recently celebrated their birthdays and they sent each other warm wishes on social media.   The two recently had a live brawl on Nairobi Diaries as Michelle accused Prezzo of cheating on her, with the lad insulting her and stripping on camera to flaunt his manhood. So, what are some of the things that could have made Michelle Yola break off her engagement to his rapcellency? Here are a few reasons that we came up with; 1. CheatingOf course, this had to be the number one reason, something that Michelle Yola has actually admitted to, and not just with one woman. In the past, Prezzo has been with so many women who also accused him of cheating, including his ex-wife Daisy Kiplagat who also labeled him a deadbeat. 2. IrresponsibilityWell, a dude who abandons his kid more so a daughter, must be equally terrible when it comes to relationships. So, it's possible that Michelle Yola felt unappreciated by Prezzo. Though they engaged in a lot of PDA, it doesn't mean that he always cuddled her and made her feel special off camera.  3. Too Much LimelightWhen celebrity couples are in the limelight, they tend to put up a united front for their fans and even when thing are bad, they continue pretending to be happy, but behind closed doors, they might not even be sleeping on the same bed. I guess Michelle had put up with so much crap for so long and decided it times to slam the door on his face! 4. Too Many ChancesFrom the way Prezzo was asking for forgiveness it looks like this was not the first time that he had messed up and trust me, a girl can only take so much. You know what they say when a woman is fed up. This is possibly what might have happened to Michelle Yola and Prezzo and this time she decided she's done for good. Well, let's hope so. 5. Once a Bad Boy...We all know Prezzo has a bad boy image, and this is not just speculation since he has proved it several times. In an interview back in 2015, Michelle Yola was asked why she is dating Prezzo despite knowing his history with women, and she said she thinks she can change him. But I guess she came to realize that you can't cage a wild animal. 