Stray Lions&rsquo; new skipper Maurice Odumbe was in red-hot form yesterday bagging 4 for 9 to guide his team to a third consecutive win over rivals Swamibapa at Peponi School.Electing to bat, the home team were all out for 133 with eight balls to play and the defending champions fell by 16 runs to succumb to their second loss in five matches. Despite an awful batting display from the top order, Alex Obanda stood tall for the champions with 48 runs.After recovering from 4 for 2 and then 39 for 4, Swamibapa were comfortably edging towards another win at 77 for 7 but when Odumbe bowled Emmanuel Bundi with his first wicket in the 14th over, Swamibapa chase crumbled.,Odumbe went on to remove Obanda with the board on 98 before trapping Onyango lbw with the very next ball. He got his fourth when he also had Nehemiah Odhiambo trapped lbw. Elijah Otieno&rsquo;s unbeaten 10 was not enough to save his side from falling on their return to Peponi.Neil Narvekar led the way with the bat for Stray Lions, scoring 46 from 33 balls while opener Jay Mehta contributed 27 as Stray Lions inning crumbled. The home side had a good start with Mehta and Roger Mukasa, putting on 16 in the first over. However the stand ended when Lameck Onyango&rsquo;s bouncer crashed Mukasa&rsquo;s helmet forcing him to retire hurt.Mehta and Abraham Vadada moved the scores to 41 before Saumil Patel got the breakthrough with the first wicket by having Vadada caught behind on 10.Mehta followed four balls later when he was bowled by Onyango. Collins Obuya didn&rsquo;t offer Swamibapa&rsquo;s bowlers much to do for his wicket as he was brilliantly run out after answering to Narvekar&rsquo;s call for a single. They were three wickets down for 52 and four down for 54 when Wilkin Mota (17) and Harrison Ambani were dismissed in quick succession. However, Narvekar and Charles Waiswa put on an eighth wicket stand of 73 that gave them a platform towards what looked like an attainable total of 133.Waiswa scored 17 before being dismissed in the 17th over. Odumbe described it as &lsquo;a pleasing victory&rsquo;.&ldquo;It was a good effort by our bowlers in that heat to restrict what was a pretty good batting team to 117,&rdquo; he said.