More than one million vulnerable children will finally be vaccinated against polio next week.The inoculation drive was cancelled in December last year due to the 14-day strike by nurses. Trained health workers are to take part because Kenya now administers the injectable polio vaccine.Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko yesterday said in a statement the exercise will run from January 18-22. The Health ministry has called all concerned health officials to a meeting on Thursday to plan the vaccination.&ldquo;We need to ensure it&rsquo;s a success and capture all the children under the age of five,&rdquo; he said in a letter. Vaccination is considered urgent because the virus reappeared in Nigeria three months ago and there is a high risk of it reaching Kenya.Kenya has been free of polio since 2006. But it has experienced several importations of wild polio virus, causing outbreaks in 2009, 2011 and 2013. Some of the targeted children were vaccinated in the nationwide drive in April last year. Receiving booster jabs is encouraged. Targeted counties include Nairobi, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit, Turkana, Lamu, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu, West Pokot, Uasin Gishu, Busia, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia. Last October Kenya introduced the injectable vaccine known as the Inactivated Polio Vaccine. It is injected in the arm or leg.The IPV is five times more expensive than the oral polio vaccine and administration requires trained health workers and sterile injection equipment and procedures.Polio is a highly infectious viral disease, which mainly affects young children. The virus must be swallowed to cause infection. It then multiplies in the intestine, from where it can invade the nervous system to cause paralysis. Most infected people may develop mild symptoms or none at all. The symptoms include fever, fatigue, headache, sore throat, nausea and vomiting. Some people develop muscle paralysis and die if the respiratory muscles are attacked.Kenya is working with Somalia to ensure communities on the border are vaccinated.&ldquo;The polio virus does not respect geographical borders and communities,&rdquo; Core Group Polio Project director Jitendra Awal said.