President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday described a more united and energised opposition as an outfit led by mad men, as he rallied his troops to mobilise supporters to register and vote.The President said the opposition has no agenda and told Jubilee supporters not to lose focus but concentrate on multiplying numbers when month-long mass registration begins on Monday. Turnout could determine outcome of the August polls.He also told JP members from many merged parties to stop squabbling and infighting because that could bring down the united outfit."If you fight internally until we all fail, what will be the benefit to you?" Uhuru asked."When you start running around the market with a mad man, no one will know the difference between the two of you. So let the mad man display his nakedness as you focus on what is important," Uhuru said.He was addressing the Jubilee Party National Governing Council meeting at Kasarani indoor stadium where he launched the membership smartcard.Uhuru said he was disappointed by the opposition meeting on Wednesday at the Bomas of Kenya where he said they claimed Jubilee has done nothing.At that meeting, opposition leaders pledged they were united and would field a single presidential candidate against Uhuru.Analysts say truly united opposition poses a serious threat to Jubilee."I am surprised there are people in this country who are clueless about what is going on. Let us not be distracted by those who have no agenda. Let us not be distracted by those who thirst for power. Let us be focused on transforming the country," Uhuru said.Kenyatta went on to outline his administration's achievements, saying the opposition has been peddling lies."I waited to hear them tell us what their unity was to bring us. But instead, I only heard they were united to insult others, united to peddle lies that we have not delivered anything for Kenyans. Those who have nothing to show just thrive on insults," Uhuru said.Uhuru said when Jubilee took over, Kenya had only 34 dialysis machines, in Nairobi and Eldoret, now there are 174 countrywide."In 2013, we had only 37 ICU beds. Today, we have over 60. We had no digital X-ray machines, now we have 94. And some people can claim we have not delivered," he said.The President also praised the Huduma Centres for bringing services closer to the people.One of his government's main achievements has been expansion of Mombasa Port that now handles 1.4 million container a year, he said."When we took over in 2013, 2.2 million customers were connected to electricity. Today more than five million are connected. And someone can dare say we have no delivered," Uhuru said.Deputy President William Ruto cited several reasons the 2017 election will be different for Jubilee seeking a second term."In 2013, we went to Kenyans with promises and pledges. In 2017, we go with a scorecard and a track record of what we have delivered, and which we are proud of," Ruto said.He said he and the President were weighed down by ICC baggage in 2013, but the cases were dropped."In 2013, we faced a formidable opponent with a sitting prime minister, a sitting vice president and half of government, but we now face a clueless, rudderless, disorganised and leaderless opposition. And you do not need to look further than the meeting at Bomas," Ruto said.He said in 2013, the election was about tribes, regions and divisions but this election is about issues that matter."We are actually proud the opposition is now speaking about projects and not just about tribes. They are always talking about development projects, even when they claim they were started by other governments," Ruto said.The fact that Jubilee is going into the election as a single party of merged affiliates shows people believe it's the only party that can unite Kenyans, he said."In 2013, it was 50 per cent plus one. Defections from that other side to Jubilee show this election is about 70 per cent plus one. This 2017 is different. They [the [opposition] don't know that things have changed," Ruto said.JP is experiencing infighting and disquiet over whether nominations will be fair and whether leaders will play favourites and lock out worthy candidates.Uhuru and Ruto tried to allay their fears."Today, we leave this place as equal Jubilee aspirants going out to recruit members for the party and we'll ensure they vote," Uhuru said.They also played down the Presidential Campaign team because many JP leaders members say its membership reflects favouritism.Now everybody's supposed to feel they are on the team."We have listened to your cries. If you came not part of the presidential campaign, know that from today, you're now part of the presidential campaign," Ruto said.Kiambu Governor William Kabogo warned that some people were likely to take advantage of their campaign secretariat positions to rig out opponents."Mr President, some people in charge of your campaigns are aspirants. We want to tell you people who manage county nominations should be from another county," he said.