I often tell people that we knew President Uhuru Kenyatta won the 2013 elections at the end of the last mass voter registration in 2012. At the time, it was clear that our candidate, as TNA, would most likely team up with URP&rsquo;s William Ruto to form what came to be known as the Dynamic Duo.By December of 2012, it was clear Uhuru would win the election by at least 52 per cent of the votes cast just by looking at the numbers. But this was because the TNA team, where I was the director of communications, was focused on the mass registration of voters.During that time, Cord had barely settled on its candidate and running mate, let alone kicking off its campaigns. On the other hand, TNA was working overtime and at full-speed during the registration period. We even had a youth registration campaign, which ensured that anyone with an ID registered.Every vote for us counted. In some cases, going to some burials, weddings and parties, you had to show your voters card. TNA mobilised everything, all manner of resources, including vehicles, and everyone during the voter registration period.We had TNA caravans across the country urging our supporters to take advantage of the voters&rsquo; registration and ensure that they were listed as voters. For weeks, we did nothing else but focus on registering people.It was a voter registration movement run by the Jubilee masses. This is what we must replicate. The process was run and owned by the people which we, as Jubilee, must replicate on January 16, when the mass voter registration exercise starts.The nature of our politics is that each political grouping has a clear stronghold, with the Jubilee Party drawing majority of its support from Central, Rift Valley and Upper Eastern. The opposition has registered the highest number of voters in its strongholds of Western, Nyanza and Coast.In fact, the last election was won after the registration of voters and the final decision was only confirmed by the turnout in both Jubilee and Cord strongholds. Even with the disputes by Cord, it was clear from the voter register that numbers don&rsquo;t lie.Jubilee thus just needed a pocket of votes from other regions such as Nairobi, where Uhuru and Cord leader Raila Odinga shared the 1.3 million votes down the middle. So in actual sense, the 2017 election will kick off on January 16 when the voter registration exercise starts.As it stands today, Cord perceived areas have more unregistered voters than Jubilee and can only increase this by taking advantage of the mass voter registration. Jubilee on the other hand has to enhance its numbers in ensuring that its populous strongholds of Mt Kenya and Rift Valley are fully registered to a man and woman.Jubilee leaders have a huge task of ensuring that all qualified Kenyans in their strongholds, as well as where we have made inroads in the opposition areas, are registered as voters. Let&rsquo;s get the sick in hospital, youths, the elderly and everyone with an ID in Jubilee strongholds to register, and not to wait for the last minute to do so.It will be our fault if the opposition wins in 2017 and possibly undoes all the good work that the Jubilee administration, led by the President, has done over the past four years.There are very many reasons that one could give why every eligible citizen of any country cannot afford to skip their patriotic duty to vote. As Deputy President William Ruto asked the other day, &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t register as a voter, then how will you participate in choosing the right leaders to govern this country?&rdquo;