This year is a significant one for tobacco control and public health in Kenya. In 2017, we mark 10 years since the enactment of the Tobacco Control Act, which was assented into law on September 27, 2007 and commenced on October 8, 2007. This achievement did not come easy, but was a result of years of struggle against heavy interference by the Tobacco Industry (TI). ree years before that, on June 25, 2004, Kenya became one of fi rst countries to sign and ratify the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on TobaccoControl (WHO- FCTC) - the first public health treaty under the auspices of the WHO - on the same day! This was a great show of commitment by our government tothe protection of public health.Studies show that over six million people die from tobacco use every year, the majority of them in their most productive years; and in low and middle-income countries.Tobacco use is a major risk factor for noncommunicable diseases, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic lung disease and diabetes, as well as someinfectious diseases like tuberculosis and lower respiratory infections.It is for this reason that the implementation of the WHO-FCTC is included in the sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015. In fact, it is recognised as one of the &ldquo;means of implementation&rdquo; to reach the overall health goal (SDG 3 ) and a target on non-communicable diseases.Beyond health, tobacco touches, in one way or another, all the other 16 goals, and reducing its use is critical to achieving the SDGs. Tobacco control should therefore form part of the agenda of SDG implementation in Kenya. Kenya has done tremendously well in tobacco control. Enforcement of smoke-free environments has ensured that, to a large extent, smoking is happening only in designated areas, thereby protecting non-smokers from exposure to tobacco smoke.Large text warnings on cigarette packets have provided the necessary information on the harmful effects of tobacco use. A comprehensive ban on Tobacco Advertising Promotion and Sponsorship (Taps) has protected our young ones from misleading portrayal of tobacco products and reduced marketing avenues for the industry.The country has also over the last five years streamlined tobacco tax policies with the ultimate goal of strengthening tax administration and reducing the affordability of tobacco products, especially to the youth and poor.Additionally, the Kenya Revenue Authority has also put in place an elaborate &ldquo;track and trace&rdquo; system through its Excisable Goods Management System, which will reduce cases of illicit trade in tobacco products. The implementation of the Tobacco Control Act is a fulfilment of the constitution under amongst others, Articles 42 which guarantees that, &ldquo;Every person has the right to a clean and healthy environment&hellip;&rdquo; and 43( 1 ) (a) which provides that, &ldquo;Every person has the right to the highest attainable standard of health.&rdquo; However, the full benefits of these provisions will only be enjoyed through the enactment and implementation of strong regulations. Kenyans are yearning for the effective implementation of the law &mdash; for themselves, their brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, children, other relatives and friends. Members of the public want the government to do more.The state can only do more under an enabling policy and legislative framework. Again, 10 years after the enactment of the Act, Kenyans are still waiting for regulations.