&ldquo;True education means more than the perusal of a certain course of study. It means more than a preparation for the life that now is. It has to do with the whole being and with the whole period of existence possible to man. It is the harmonious development of the physical, the mental, and the spiritual powers. It prepares the student for the joy of service in this world and for the higher joy of wider service in the world to come.&rdquo; Ellen Gould White (1827-1916)According to Sessional Paper No.10 (39-40:111) of 1965 on Education, Training and Experiences; it said: &ldquo;At Kenya&rsquo;s stage of development, education is much more an economic than a social service.&rdquo; The paper continued to expound &ldquo;it is a principle means for relieving the shortage of domestic skilled manpower and equalizing economic opportunities among all citizens.&rdquo; It is not surprising to discover that more than five decades ago the paper had called for expansion of school facilities in preparation for free primary education and had defined the road map for the country&rsquo;s education sector.The paper did not shy away from calling for the establishment of more tertiary and middle level institutions to train high and middle level manpower respectively. But where have we gone wrong as a nation? There is urgent need to do thorough national soul searching in regard to our entire education system instead of tethering on the borders of procrastination and brinkmanship! When the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary (KCSE) examination results were released in early and late December 2016 respectively, many parents and candidates sighed with relief and applauded the humble but no- nonsense Cabinet Secretary (CS) for Education. The CS had superseded the expectations and imaginations of Kenyans by releasing the results in a record time never witnessed before in the history of education. The God- fearing minister and his hard working and able team managed to outwit exam cartels and brokers in one swoop. But wait! The release of last year&rsquo;s eagerly awaited national examination results for both primary and secondary schools elicited excitement and disappointment in equal measure. Schools that have hitherto not been among the top achievers suddenly were thrust into national limelight thus the palpable excitement. However, academic giants who have dominated the top ten positions in the national ranking for the past decade found themselves in the receiving end. These prestigious schools and academic giants were shockingly jerked into reality by the new austerity measures put in place by the straight-shooting and hawk-eyed CS.Unlike in the past when the examination results were released with gusto, pomp and color, last year&rsquo;s function at Shimo La Tewa High School was low-keyed. This could &ndash; perhaps- be a pointer to the controversy the entire examination process would court among its major stakeholders. For the last three years, the retired president and distinguished professional teacher before joining the murky world of politics; has consistently and persistently criticized the Ministry of Education for unpopular decisions and policies it has imposed on Kenyans without due regard for wider consultations among key stakeholders. What irked Mzee Moi from Sacho and Kenyans in general is the abandon recklessness in the management of national examinations.As Kenyans, education experts, teachers, stakeholders and candidates come to terms with shocking impact of poor performance of schools and candidates in the just recently released national examination results; there is disquiet about their validity and reliability. Why? There are 141 straight As compared to 33399 Es. This negates the principles of normal curve distribution. What the CS and Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) deliberately ignored in their haste to release the results; is the process of moderation. The results were not moderated at all. Period!According to Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) and supported by its nemesis the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET), there is urgent and must need to do remarking of the scripts and establish national inquiry into unprecedented mass failure in 2016 KCSE.The fiery and hard hitting KNUT Secretary General &ndash; Mr. Wilson Sossion- lamented that: &ldquo;we were shocked at the curve. It is not a normal curve. So we launched investigations as a union and we have consulted widely, even inside government, and the narrative is the same &ndash; that these results are not a true reflection of the candidates&rsquo; performance.&rdquo; The official was extensively quoted by the mainstream media warning that: &ldquo;teachers are not happy, children are not happy and parents are not happy. No one wants free marks. But we insist on right process that is fair and transparent. We cannot celebrate an individual yet a generation is buried. We will seek alternative ways if we cannot be listened to.&rdquo;For the 437,440 candidates who scored a C plain and below, their careers hang in the balance given the few available vacancies in the middle level colleges. There will be cut-throat competition never witnessed before in the history of education for popular and highly marketable courses offered in medical and technical institutions. The government has abolished pre-university program. And with that, this unlucky lot of C plain and below, will have to travel a long path in search of elusive university degree. They will have to acquire a diploma first before being considered for a degree course in any public or private university. It will be expensive for parents.Since the government has guaranteed admission of all 88,929 candidates who attained A and C plus, private universities and parallel programs in public universities have literarily been &ldquo;killed&rdquo; with zero option. The majority of these students have to reconsider their career options in the light of this new development. It is an acknowledged fact that ranking in national examinations has positive impact on candidates and parents. It promotes spirit of healthy competition among candidates, institutions and inspires parents to work closely with teachers. And competition without doubt is an integral part of Kenyan spirit be it in sports, politics or business. Ranking in exams is paramount if it is strictly designed to promote national values and encourage candidates to perform. Anything short of the aforementioned will automatically kill the spirit and objectives of competition thereby promoting national mediocrity. The consequences of this move are too dire to contemplate. The CS has assured Kenyans that ranking will be unbanned once legislation is put place by parliament. He confirmed that the Act of Parliament addressing administration and management of national examinations is nearing completion.Although parents, teachers, pupils and major stakeholders in the sector have alleged persistent bias over form one selection criteria for many years, last year&rsquo;s intake was fair. It represented the face of Kenya unlike before where candidates who score more than 400 marks from private schools were denied the opportunity to join national schools of their choice. Yet a candidate from public institution who scored less than 300 marks is offered the same chance in the national schools category. What a paradox! The proprietor of Muhoya Academy in Nyeri County was unequivocal in his call for both public and private institutions to forge for concerted efforts in securing high quality, relevant, accessible, equitable and timely education. Mr. Joseph Muhoya Mathenge the former Principal of Kenyatta High School, Mahiga passionately urged the government not to discriminate against private schools when issuing laptops. &ldquo;Whether in private or public schools, these children will serve this nation eventually at whatever station and capacity,&rdquo; concluded the amiable but strict disciplinarian whose charges are faithfully serving this nation. That our education system is crumbling before our very own eyes is not in doubt. The never ending Lecturers&rsquo;, tutors&rsquo; and teachers&rsquo; pay circus and sagas does not augur well for our education sector. The frequency and magnitude of strikes occasioned by pay disputes and government hard stand on the same is dangerously spiraling to a halt with heavy casualties being quality of education and frequent closures of learning institutions.Recent incidences where students have been arrested while on drinking sprees in bars and engaging in illicit affairs attest to social decadence that is fast taking root in our society. While teachers are on strike, pupils and students idle and roam about in the villages. To kill boredom, these innocent souls do engage in social vices that may have long time effect and ruin their lives forever.In view of prolonged strikes, students, teachers and parents feel that the syllabus has not been adequately covered. This therefore breeds ground for grand cheating in national examinations.The rampant cheating in form four examinations has ashamedly been exported to higher learning institutions. Universities and colleges have been severally accused of selling certificates, diplomas and degrees to students and persons who never stepped inside a classroom or lecture hall leave alone sitting for written examinations! What is the import of the above scenario? Education experts argue and fear that with all these reported evidences of examination cheating, our students and graduates will face hurdles securing admission and employment in foreign universities respectively. Universities and colleges are supposed to train the best brains yet what we are witnessing at the moment is just total confusion and fiasco in the ailing education sector.Even more worrying is the fact that most universities are rapidly losing direction by concentrating on teaching instead of focusing on research. They are busy killing creativity, innovation and critical thinking at expense of notes and handouts. I need not belabor the obvious fact that investing in research and technology is paramount in achieving Kenya&rsquo;s development goals.The raging debate on whether to change the much-maligned 8-4-4 system of education which was introduced in 1985 is adding more confusion to the already volatile education sector. Instead of improving and streamlining it to be education for capability, we are busy attempting to overhaul the whole system through untested 2-6-3-3-4 which could be costly to implement and sustain.True leaders accept positive criticism. I urge the CS in his commendable efforts to restructure the education sector to instill confidence but not fear among key players in the sector who include principals and head teachers of secondary and primary schools respectively. To address the appalling standards of education in this beautiful country of ours called Kenya, there is need to structure it within the confines of the Ominde (1964), Mackay (1981), Mungai (1987), Appleton (1995), Angwenyi (1995), Lloyd &amp; Blane (1996) and Koech (1999) Reports. All these reports have clearly defined road map for the growth and sustainability of our education sector since Independence! Fredrick Araap Ng&rsquo;eeno is a Social Researcher and commentator on topical issues.