Speakers echoed the call for peaceful elections at politician Mark Too's memorial service in Nairobi on Friday.Water CS Eugene Wamalwa touched on the disputed election laws saying the decision made must be respected and peace pursued, as Too wanted."Too was a friend of my family. He left a mark of peace in our lives. We should have a peaceful election; this is the greatest tribute we can pay him," said Eugene."Decisions have been made, and there are people who would want to challenge then and those who would want to go to court, but this is where Mark comes in."The Senate passed contentious amendments to the election laws on Thursday night, allowing manual voter verification in the August election.Jubilee senators outvoted their Cord counterparts 24 to 19 after heated debated that extended past 8pm to pass the amendments through the second reading.Cord leaders accused Speaker Ekwee Ethuro of helping the ruling coalition to rig the vote.Read: Senate backs controversial vote methodAlso read: Wetang'ula now accuses Ethuro of rigging poll laws vote for JubileeEugene noted that Too visited leaders across the political divide including him- President Uhuru Kenyatta (Jubilee), Raila Odinga (Cord), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper).He said the late former Nominated MP spoke to the politicians directly, explaining the need for peace in Kenya.Members of the public and their leaders should take actions that will benefit the county, not Jubilee or Cord, he added.Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said he knew Too for more than 26 years. He said the former legislator introduced him to so many people and that they were good friends."I have lost a friend. Mark left his name for us and that is the mark that he left," he told mourners at AIC Milimani, adding the man was humble and peaceful.Kipsang said his friend appreciated his ministry's good work and phoned to congratulate he and CS Fred Matiang'i upon the release of KCSE examination results."Mark appreciated that which was good for the country," he said.Read: Mark Too respected the rich and poor, daughters say at massKipronoKittony, chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said Too was remarkable and contributed immensely to Kenya's growth."He was a remarkable and exceptional person. The contribution he made will forever be missed. His contribution was immense, " he said.Kittony further said Too believed everything was possible and that "nothing was hard for him.""We need to find consensus between now and the August election so as to pay him tribute for the work he did," he said.Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said he did not know the politician for long but that he advised him on political matters.Boinnet said all politicians must ensure peace is the common denominator for the general election."We need peace. I stand here to confirm that he loved peace. He loved when communities stayed together. He insisted on humility," he said. "We truly had a great man."Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said Too was a close friend who loved Kenya."He loved this country and he loved us. He loved inclusion and it pained him to see people not talking to each other," he said.Kuria said he used to refer to Too as 'encyclopedia' as he knew about everything he was asked."He gave me answers and I was astonished," he said.Too, 64, died after a short illness at St Lukes Hospital in Eldoret on December 31. He will be buried on Monday.Among the dignitaries who attended the service were Mudavadi and Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero.Read: Uhuru mourns 'jovial, easy-going' Mark Too[AUDIO] Blood vein rupture killed Mark Too, exam shows after lawyer's poisoning claim