Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura has accused his opponents of attacking him on Wednesday in Kondele during voter registration campaigns.He said police should swiftly investigate and arrest those who organised the violence. Obura said youths who attacked him were hired by rivals, whom he did not name.He said his rivals have been sabotaging his vote registration campaign. The MP said he wants to increase the number of voters in his constituency from 98,000 to 150,000. Obura has been accused of supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee Party.The MP is seeking reelection on the ODM ticket, despite having been branded a mole. He has denied the claims, saying he cannot betray the party that sponsored him to Parliament. &ldquo;Those claiming that I will defect are dreaming. I am in ODM to stay,&rdquo; Obura said. On Wednesday, youths smashed his car windows, accusing him of &ldquo;going to bed&rdquo; with Jubilee. The rear and side windows were smashed. He cut short his speech and fled. Other vehicles in the convoy were also damaged.The youths heckled him as he made his way through Kondele from Obunga slums, where he had attended the registration drive.Obura, an ODM-sponsored and first time MP, was also chased away at Kibuye market and Obunga slums.He said political intolerance is unhealthy for Cord and ODM leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s presidency. &ldquo;Youths should stop being misused by selfish politicians. We must end backwards and unlawful acts,&rdquo; Obura said.Boda boda operators wearing reflector jackets bearing Obura&rsquo;s name had to remove them for fear of attacks. &ldquo;I will not relent on the mass voter registration campaign,&rdquo; he said.Obura has been facing hostility from residents and ODM officials accusing him of sabotaging party activities and propagating Jubilee agenda.&ldquo;He has abandoned a party which sponsored him to the National Assembly. He is rarely in the constituency to listen to our problems,&rdquo; a resident, who did not want to be named, said. &ldquo;You are a traitor and you only come to push your own agenda.&rdquo;Kisumu Central ODM chairman Seth Ochieng and treasurer Edward Ogolla said the party is unhappy with Obura for leaning towards Jubilee.Last year, Obura and Karachuonyo MP James Rege were among ODM leaders who attended the Jubilee prayer rally in Nakuru. Siaya MCA Fred Ouda, former Kisumu mayor Sam Okello and Margaret Ouma want to unseat him.