Majority leader Aden Duale is a criminal who should not be walking free, former Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim has said.&nbsp; The Garrisa township MP aspirant said Duale should be&nbsp;arrested and arraigned in court over incitement remarks. Farah said that two days after a clip in which Duale is heard inciting local youths against members of the Kamba community surfaced on social media, two members of the community were beaten up and injured in Garissa "Duale is a criminal who should not be walking free. If the Government is serious about taming violence, President Uhuru should instruct the Inspector General of Police to arrest Duale today and he be charged in court. He should be committed to jail and its immoral for him to roam around after inciting people to violence," Maalim said.Duale has dismissed as outrageous the audio clip widely circulated on social media, and which resulted in a call for his arrested under Twitter hash tag #ArrestDuale.The Garissa Town MP denied that the voice was his and demanded confirmation of the venue, who the youths being addressed were and any other evidence."In my opinion it is concocted propaganda," he told the Star by phone on Thursday, adding the clip was "corrupted".Read:&nbsp;[AUDIO] Duale dismisses audio of incitement against Kamba voters as concocted propaganda&nbsp;Speaking outside the CID headquarters on Kiambu road, Farah said he had visited the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to explain to them why Duale should be arrested and charged. "Duale has incited Garissa locals against the Kambas. He is heard very clearly in the clip doing rounds on social media asking locals to resent Kambas. Now two people have been injured as we speak. He belongs to jail and should have been arrested," Farah said. On Friday, the national cohesion team said it has launched investigations to unravel the voice in the incitement audio. The speaker in the recording is heard asking youths not to allow Kamba's to register as voters in the August 8 general election, and to prevent their movement to poll centres in Garissa.NCIC chairman Francis ole Kaparo told the Star on phone on Friday that the commission's probe will be centred on establishing the veracity of the two-minute clip.Read:&nbsp; NCIC opens probe on incitement audio clip linked to DualeFarah asked the police to arrest Duale for incitement just like they did when Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Busia women rep Florence Mutua, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria were arrested and charged in court. He said Duale's actions are a recipe for another post election violence in 2017.In April 2014, Duale was also captured on TV asking those throwing grenades in Eastleigh to go do so in Machakos so that Eastleigh residents are not harassed in police swoops. The video showed Duale asking those behind the terror attacks in Eastleigh to stop doing so as they were hurting the interests of local traders. Speaking in vernacular, Duale said: &ldquo;We Somalis of Kenya... We invested our money in Eastleigh. This is where our economy is based.&rdquo;He added : &ldquo;Eastleigh is our umbilical cord. You must arrest anyone who is spoiling Eastleigh &mdash; even if he is Adan Barre&rsquo;s brother. Those who are detonating explosives in Eastleigh should do it elsewhere. Had the one who is detonating explosives here done that in Machakos, do you think the people of Eastleigh would have been harassed?&rdquo;Duale latter denied the claims and told the media that he meant the explosives should be thrown in Somali.