A section of Nairobi Luhya leaders yesterday warned that those opposed to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s appointment as the Luhya spokesperson risk attracting a curse.Led by city MCAs and aspirants, they asked all the Luhyas to support Mudavadi or &ldquo;face the consequences&rdquo;.&ldquo;You risk attracting a curse and being political outcasts, since you are going against Luhya the elders wish,&rdquo; Johnson Mukabwa, the Harambee MCA seat aspirant, said.&ldquo;In 2013, we were labelled demons by some Jubilee leaders. It&rsquo;s disrespectful to call a Luhya leader a demon. We have come together to support Mudavadi and a few selfish politicians are opposed to it. The community has chosen and no one is allowed to go against the decision,&rdquo; Mukabwa said.Nairobi County Liquor Licensing Board chairman Vincent Shimoli said it is wrong for leaders such as Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale to reject Mudavadi&rsquo;s new role.He said the time has come for Western leaders to unite. &ldquo;We urge Mudavadi to roll out a major campaign to bring on board all politicians and opinion leaders in our community. We have faith in Mudavadi&rsquo;s diplomatic and networking skills,&rdquo; Shimoli said.Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok said Mudavadi is a leader of all Western people, not just the Luhyas. &ldquo;The Tesos and others living in Western support his appointment. He is our leader,&rdquo; he said.Mudavadi was named the Luhya community spokesperson on December 31 last year, in an event held in Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega.Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli organised the event. &ldquo;I am asking Musalia to sit down with the other leaders to lay issues bare and resolve the tension,&rdquo; Atwoli said.Mudavadi emerged the most popular Luhya leader in Western, ahead of Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Wetang&rsquo;ula. The Amani leader was rated to have 38 per cent, followed by Oparanya and Wetang&rsquo;ula, who scored 30 per cent each. The event followed a survey conducted by the University of Nairobi Economics Department to identify the strongest and most popular leader in the region sponsored by Atwoli.The research was done between July and October 2016. Some 2,600 respondents were interviewed.Last week, Bungoma &lsquo;Mr Moneybags&rsquo; Moses Nandalwe urged Wetang&rsquo;ula to accept Mudavadi&rsquo;s appointment.He said Mudavadi&rsquo;s selection did not require confirmation by research as he is the most popular presidential candidate in Western. Nandalwe said Wetangula&rsquo;s failure to accept the community&rsquo;s decision is putting his political future at risk. &ldquo;Mudavadi is popular based on the number of MPs, senators and governors behind him. Anyone opposing this decision is putting his political future at risk,&rdquo; he said.