World champion Peris Chepchirchir hopes to improve her current personal best of 1:06.39 when she returns to Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon in United Arab Emirates on February 10.Last year she placed fourth in a race won by compatriot Cynthia Limo. &ldquo;Last year I competed at the RAK half marathon and I came fourth after fierce battle. This year, I will be seeking to improve my performance,&rdquo; she said. The athlete, who trains at Kapsabet in Nandi County, will be use the race as build up for her marathon debut in April.&ldquo;I think my performance in Ras Al Khaimah will help me gauge myself before my debut in marathon this April,&rdquo; she added. Chepchirchir, who won Valencia 15km in October, said RAK is a faster course and exuded confidence of doing well. This is the same course where Mary Keitany clocked 1:05.50 world half marathon record in 2011 before Florence Kiplagat set a new mark of 1:05.09 at the 2015 Barcelona Half Marathon.&ldquo;I set my personal best in Ras Al Khaimah and with the preparations I have had, I am hopeful that I will not only run a better time but will also finish on the podium,&rdquo; she said. Chepchirchir will be up against Keitany and world marathon silver medallist Helah Kiprop among other top athletes. &ldquo;The line-up is very tough but I normally take it is as a challenge to make me fight better. They are not new to me as I have competed against them in other road races,&rdquo; She said.Chepchirchir set Usti nad Labem half marathon course record of 1:07.17 in 2015 before earning Kenya gold at the IAAF World Half Marathon Championships in Cardiff.She went ahead to set a world leading time of 30:55 in 10km in Prague and won the Family Bank Half Marathon in Eldoret.Meanwhile, a team of athletes from Kericho selected a fortnight ago to represent the county in the South Rift Region cross country championships this weekend in Kajiado are likely to skip the event due to financial constraints. According to Sigowet Athletics Training Club coach Japheth Kemei, about 30 athletes may not travel to Kajiado to represent the county, owing to lack of funds for transport, accommodation and others logistics.Speaking on phone yesterday, Kemei said the matter is of grave concern and requires urgent attention from the county administration and well-wishers to enable the team travel to Kajiado this weekend.&ldquo;If the team doesn&rsquo;t get any financial assistance before Friday, It will be difficult to compete in the championships. We are appealing to the department of Sports in the county to avail funds as a matter of urgency so that the team can honour the Kericho County in the championships,&rdquo; Kemei said.He said if the assistance will not come as soon as possible, they will have no choice but release the athletes to travel on their own.Two weeks ago, the county picked about 30 athletes at Kiptere Primary School ground after the county championships. Top athletes included Lilian Kasait, Loice Chemunung, Davis Kiplangat, David Kiprotich Bett and Eva Cherono among others. Six counties &mdash;Kericho, Nakuru, hosts Kajiado, Narok, Bomet and Laikipia&mdash; will compete in the event.