State House has made a fresh pledge to support loss-making Kenya Airways&rsquo; restructuring programme to enable the national carrier compete favourably in the global aviation space. President Uhuru Kenyatta maintains the airline &ldquo;is key to government&rsquo;s efforts in making Nairobi an African aviation hub&rdquo;. He gave the reassurance on Wednesday when he met KQ board chairman Michael Joseph. A dispatch from the Presidential Strategic Communications Unit said Joseph briefed the President on the latest initiatives aimed at bringing the national carrier back to profitability. They include the ongoing process of recruiting a new chief executive among others. Joseph is leading the recruitment of a chief executive to replace CEO Mbuvi Ngunze. The board announced on November 24 that Ngunze will be leaving in the first quarter of 2017, bringing to an end his five-year tenure at the airline. He exited after mounting pressure from the Kenya Airline Pilots Association, which last year called for an overhaul of KQ&rsquo;s management, failing which pilots would strike. The threat resulted in the resignation of former chairman Dennis Awori who left on October 26, creating room for Joseph. Kenya Airways, which posted a record tax loss of Sh26.2 billion for the year that ended March 31, up from Sh25.7 billion previously, has been implementing a turnaround strategy. It includes retrenchment of staff which started in May 2016. In July, 80 employees were sent home under the first phase. The airline has also reduced the size of its fleet and has been selling non-core assets like land to recover from the losses. KQ says it requires a fresh capital of Sh70 billion.The carrier signed a codeshare agreement with Hong Kong Airlines on plying the Bangkok&ndash;Hong Kong route, in its latest expansion plans, in a bid to improve connectivity to Asia. The agreement will see Hong Kong Airlines load Kenya Airways flight code on the Asian carrier&rsquo;s seven daily flights. It will also enable Hong Kong Airlines passengers to book direct tickets to Nairobi, and the rest of KQ destinations, especially in Africa. Kalpa, the pilots&rsquo; lobby, wants an expatriate to lead the airline. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t think we have someone with the kind of experience in Kenya or Africa,&rdquo; secretary general Paul Gichinga told the Star in an interview on December 7.