Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has denied that his security has been reinstated saying he drove himself to Bomas of Kenya for an opposition rally.Joho said he was not sorry if lecturing President Uhuru Kenyatta is what caused the withdrawal of his security."If telling the truth is being disrespectful, I have nothing to say to Jubilee. I have no apology to make," Joho said on Wednesday."I want to put a stop to this conversation about security. I have asked that they (Jubilee) should not give me security," he added.He addressed opposition members and aspirants who met to chart the way forward on election laws signed by the President.Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa issued an address on the security drama earlier on Wednesday, saying only drug dealers wanted more weapons.He said Joho should stop complaining as security operations affect all governors, who will now have five officers in their detail.More on this: [AUDIO] Only drug dealers want many guns, says MarwaJoho noted this was the first time he had moved without security but said his people will protect him."I want to tell Jubilee... We do not need your security. We are people who believe in God," he said.He added that he would rather have nothing yet associate himself with a government that cares about the people.The Governor's bodyguards were taken away last Friday as he left with Cord leader Raila Odinga to Ghana for the inauguration of President Nana Akufo-Addo.Joho wrote a protest letter to IG Joseph Boinnet on Tuesday demanding the reinstatement of his bodyguards.His lawyer told Boinnet that he had 24 hours to act on the matter, failure to which he would be sued for taking away the security detail.Read: Joho, Kingi security withdrawal 'purely coincidental', says BoinnetLast Thursday, Joho dismissed reports that the government pumped a lot of money into the Buxton foot bridge. Uhuru, who officially opened the bridge last week boasted about his government's allocation of large amounts of money to Coast counties.Joho who spoke in Bamburi while Uhuru watched, said the money for the bridge was donated by World Bank.He told a charged crowd today, without mentioning names, that thieves must be referred to as thieves.The Governor referred to jokes by members of the public about Uhuru's launch of projects, in saying they should not get tired.Kenyans on Twitter took up what they termed the Uhuru Challenge, is comical criticism of the President's launch of projects whose impact is not felt."I want to challenge Jubilee to show the projects they have done using taxpayers' money," Joho said."Tumepita the Uhuru challenge.. analauch mavuli..... msichoke (We have passed the Uhuru challenge. He launches umbrellas... do not get tired)."He said the people have no choice but to stick together as what belongs to them has been stolen for too long.Joho said he has given his life to the mission to get the Jubilee administration out of power. He asked members of the public to register as voters and help them achieve this goal.[VIDEO] Joho lectures Uhuru on hijacking Mombasa projectsThe Governor said he will vie for re-election in the August 8 election."I have made my position clear. I will run for governor. We are going to have a very strong, united opposition this time round," he said.