Bloomberg News co-founder Matthew Winkler spoke to PATRICK KARIUKI in his van in the parking lot of the Standard Media Group on Mombasa Road, Nairobi, in November. Winkler had just come from an interview on KTN.What was your first job?I started working when I was 11 years old. My first job was as a newspaper delivery boy. In college, which you would call university, I was editor of my college newspaper for two years. I also worked for my local newspaper while still in college. Not too long after college, I went to work for Dow Jones and The Wall Street Journal, which at the time was the largest newspaper in the United States. I spent 10 years in New York and London, covering international markets, finance, the economy, stock markets and banking. I also covered Bloomberg International while it was a young company in its infancy.You are often mentioned as a cofounder of Bloomberg. Is this true?I started Bloomberg News. Bloomberg was a company for eight years before I showed up, but it did not have its own news division. Mike Bloomberg, who was the chief executive and founder of Bloomberg, called me while I was at The Wall Street Journal and said, &ldquo;What would it take to get in the news business?&rdquo; And we had a conversation and he said, &ldquo;You are gonna do it for me. When can we start?&rdquo;Just like that?Just like that.Had Bloomberg heard of you before?Yes. He knew me because I was already a fairly well-known reporter for The Wall Street Journal and if you were Michael Bloomberg or anyone in the Wall Street community, you read The Wall Street Journal, and so you probably knew what I wrote. And he did, and he said, &ldquo;I want you to do this for me.&rdquo; And I did. We started Bloomberg News in February 1990 and the first Bloomberg News story was published on June 14, 1990. I was the editor-in-chief and first employee. It did get a lot better than that, though. Later, we grew to 2,600 employees in four continents (North America, Europe, Asia and South America).In an era where the news market was dominated by names like CNN, Reuters and BBC, what did Bloomberg News bring to the table? What did you bring to the table?The Bloomberg organisation, before I arrived, was already focussed on amassing and collecting enormous amounts of data about the financial industry, and, because of that data, it was making once opaque markets transparent. This was what made the organisation so compelling in its infancy. As a journalist, I found that very compelling. I thought that if it were possible to marry what Bloomberg was already doing with data with journalism, the combination would be possibly unique and difficult to replicate. That was the big idea driving the beginning of Bloomberg News.What&rsquo;s your typical day at Bloomberg? What do you do there?I was editor-in-chief for 25 years, which is long enough. Now I am editor-in-chief emeritus, so I no longer run Bloomberg News. Instead, my job now is to help everybody in the company wherever I can. Essentially, now I do three things: One, I go wherever we are in need of engaging a newsmaker. It could be a prime minister, it could be a president, a governor, a chief executive or a mayor. This year, in the United States, I have interviewed the governors of California, Oregon, Washington, Massachusetts and North Carolina. I have also interviewed a number of chief executive officers.When you interview these figures, what&rsquo;s your focus: politics or business?Well, that&rsquo;s a really great question because what I try to do in every interview is bring to that interview lots of data, economic data and financial data, that provides a very focussed picture of the state if I am talking about a state, a city if I am talking about a city or a company if I am talking about a company. The interview is informed by the data I bring to it, as opposed to just having a set of questions, like a lot of people might have. So I literally go into the interview with a visual data presentation. So when I am doing the questions, I can say, &ldquo;You are creating this many jobs, your housing market looks like this&hellip;&rdquo; so my questions are driven by the data at hand.You said you do three things at Bloomberg.Yes, the first is the data-driven interviews with public figures or leaders. The second thing is to write. I do two columns a month (you can find them online on Bloomberg View). In fact, the latest column is about Kenya. Most people outside of Africa might, when you ask them about Kenya, raise worries about crime and safety. So I looked at the data and said, there&rsquo;s a lot more going on in Kenya than that. Look at the data and &ndash; surprise! Here&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s really going on in Kenya!I read that article and it was very optimistic about Kenya and I wondered, did the Government of Kenya commission this article?Well, the data speaks for itself. That&rsquo;s the thing. I am just giving you the data.What does the data about Kenya&rsquo;s economic outlook tell you?I don&rsquo;t look at Kenya in isolation. I look at Kenya compared to East Africa, West Africa and the sub-Saharan African continent. I also look at Kenya in the context of all the other countries in the world that are in the frontier market for investing, because Kenya is in that group. I also look at Kenya in the context of the more developed emerging markets. Once I do it that way, I then ask, &ldquo;How does Kenya compare to all these other countries? What&rsquo;s Kenya&rsquo;s GDP? Is it growing more or less than these other countries? What&rsquo;s happening with the population? Is it demographically in a better or worse position than these other countries? What&rsquo;s happening to Kenya&rsquo;s companies, the companies that make up Corporate Kenya, which is the Nairobi Index? How do those companies compare to companies that are domiciled in other countries in the frontier and emerging markets? I look at the currency. Why? The currency is a reality check on the confidence of investors in the country. If the Kenya shilling is relatively stable or appreciating, then it means that there is confidence in the country because it is not a reserve currency. And what do these things tell you?They tell me that Kenya, when compared to the rest of the sub-Saharan economy, is the best-performing major economy right now. The Kenyan shilling is the most stable currency of all the eight most traded currencies in sub-Saharan Africa (it suffers fewer price fluctuations). Kenya is, therefore, perceived to be relatively strong by comparison to its peers.Demographically, the size of the population older than 65 is going up. The percentage of people who are 15 and younger is declining. Therefore, when you put those two together, you realise that despite what you read and hear about crime and instability, people in Kenya are living longer and therefore healthier lives! Surprise! Surprise! You didn&rsquo;t read that anywhere, nobody is telling you that on the broadcast news, but that is a demographic fact. It is what the data says.And what does the stock market data tell you?The companies that make up corporate Kenya (the companies in the NSE Index), when compared to the companies in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, and the companies in the frontier and emerging markets all over the world, the Kenyan companies have the best return. This means, on a 12-month basis, when you look at Kenyan companies on the basis of price and dividends, Kenyan companies are the best-performing in the world. The return on equity in the last 12 months for corporate Kenya has been 6.5 per cent. That&rsquo;s better than anybody else in the frontier market.Why?Well, Kenyan companies are expensive. There&rsquo;s been a premium for the past two years. But the premium has converged; the stocks have gone up but the companies have made more money. Basically, the companies are earning more money faster than their stocks have appreciated. So investors still like Kenyan stocks because investors are always thinking about the future. They are not looking at the past; they are not looking in the rearview mirror. In fact, there&rsquo;s a saying that &ldquo;Investors discount the future and the hereafter.&rdquo;Which Kenyan stocks are doing really well right now?Surprise! Surprise! Kenya Airways is doing really well. It&rsquo;s not a profitable company but more and more people are flying the airline, which is a very good sign, and this is consistent with the demographics. Safaricom stocks are also performing very well. If people are living longer and healthier, one of the manifestations of that is communication. The third standout stock is Longhorn Publishers, which is in education publishing. Again, very consistent with the demographics. The country is relatively stable; the shilling tells you that. If Kenya wasn&rsquo;t stable, the shilling would be volatile. On a relative value basis, Kenya is outperforming its peers.I told my colleague Shin Fei, who is a wonderful master of Bloomberg data, that I don&rsquo;t think I have read anywhere a story about Kenya written this way. No one would have thought, before we wrote this piece, that the story of Kenya would be this. They would be forgiven for thinking it&rsquo;s a number of other things, but not this. This story would be a surprise to them. And that&rsquo;s the definition of news.What&rsquo;s the third thing you do at Bloomberg?The third thing is philanthropy. I am engaged in endeavours that take me to a classroom, where I teach aspiring journalists the Bloomberg Way.What is the Bloomberg Way?It&rsquo;s a way of looking at events and reporting on them in an economic, financial context so that people can gather a greater sense of context of what&rsquo;s going on, just like the article I wrote on Kenya.