Uganda is negotiating a $2.3 billion (Sh239.17) loan with China's Exim Bank to fund an initial 273km stretch of rail line it is planning to build, an official said yesterday.The landlocked country eventually wants to build a 1,700km standard gauge railway to connect with similar lines being built in Kenya. The rail links are expected to boost the volume and efficiency of trade between Mombasa and its vast hinterland stretching to South Sudan, eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Rwanda and Burundi. "The construction of the eastern route ... will cost $2.3 billion," Standard Gauge Railway project head Kasingye Kyamugambi told Reuters, referring to the 273km stretch between the capital Kampala and Malaba on the border with Kenya. "Uganda is negotiating with Exim Bank of China to secure financing for the project and begin construction." Kyamugambi did not say when the deal is expected to be finalised but said the construction &ndash; slated to start once funds are secured &ndash; will take 42 months. Once fully completed, the railway will have several arms connecting it to Congo, Rwanda and South Sudan. Both Uganda and Kenya have been using a decrepit, narrow-gauge railway line built about a century ago by the British. That old line in both countries is being operated by a private investor under a concession that runs until 2032. In recent years, officials in the East African region have been eager to invest in modern transportation and communications links such as railways, expressways and internet cables. Once complete, the new electric rail network is expected to save Uganda an estimated $2 billion a year through lower freight costs and shorter shipment times. Kyamugambi said the Ugandan government will contribute 15 per cent to the cost of the Malaba-Kampala stretch and also pay for land for the railway corridor. Last month, a Kenyan official said that work on the country's Mombasa-Nairobi stretch of the new railway link, also financed by China, was 98 per cent complete and that it would begin commercial operations in January 2018.