Before opposition leaders went to the Bomas of Kenya for their meeting on Wednesday, Corridors has learnt that the protocol to be followed was a thorn in their flesh. This emerged over lunch. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi wanted to speak before or after ODM leader Raila Odinga — as a way to show his supporters he was fully accepted. But Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula protested, saying “Mudavadi was the new entrant” and must speak before them. They are also said to have protested that allowing Mudavadi to speak last would be seen as an endorsement of the National Super Alliance, which was yet to be agreed on. It was later agreed that Raila would speak last as the de facto opposition leader. ***** Some people close to President Uhuru Kenyatta are panicking. They think ODM leader Raila Odinga will pull a fast one by not running and by endorsing another Cord candidate. The conventional wisdom has been that Raila will likely run, however, new opposition unity suggests another flagbearer could be named. Kenyatta’s circle is particularly worried the son of Jaramogi will back Musalia Mudavadi and by doing so he would seriously complicate Uhuru’s campaign. This is especially so if the other opposition candidates agree to back Musalia. ***** Peter Kenneth may have joined Jubilee the other day but we are told he has already won over several MCAs and Nairobi leaders to back him for Nairobi governor. We are told the former Gatanga MP was present when Deputy President William Ruto met Jubilee leaders the other day at his Karen residence and Ruto was deceived. It is understood that a number of MPs have also quietly switched to Kenneth’s side and are being used to push Jubilee to give him the governor’s ticket. It is this push that has seen his opponents return to the drawing board. Kenneth has teamed up with former Nairobi Town Clerk Philip Kisia to run for governor. ***** That Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed is poised to be elected chairperson of the African Union Commission has encouraged some CSs to lobby for her position. The government has been furiously campaigning for Mohamed, and sending delegations around the continent. We are told one Cabinet Secretary has has been working hard to position himself as a replacement for Mohamed should she get the AU job. One minister known to be close to State House operatives has even offered cash to some of them to ensure they put in a good word for him.