Mombasa county has squandered Sh1 billion through irregular allocation of a contract for garbage collection, Senator Hassan Omar said yesterday.He said Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s administration singled-sourced a company, violating the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act.Omar said the directors of the company, who have for the last four years been paid Sh300 million annually for garbage collection, are close associates and cronies of Joho. But the company has not been collecting garbage, despite being paid, he said.The senator said the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been investigating the matter for two years but has not prosecuted anyone.Part of the &ldquo;irregular award&rdquo; and the cost were mentioned in the Auditor General&rsquo;s Report 2014-15 as cash that could not be accounted for, he said.Bamburi MCA Riziki Fundi, once the deputy chairperson of the Finance and Budget Committee, said he was threatened when he queried Sh42 million paid to the company monthly.&ldquo;We objected but they had their way. I complained to then clerk Tubman Otieno, who said I had stepped on a live wire. I was then stripped of my position. I could do nothing,&rdquo; he said.Otieno denied the allegations and said he never spoke to Fundi. He said tenders did not fall under his docket. Omar said there is an attempt by the county to undermine the EACC investigations.&ldquo;Some of these documents were shared with them [EACC] voluntary and they raided and found the documents are incontrovertible evidence. Why are persons not being prosecuted?&rdquo; he said.Omar demanded EACC forward the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions. He asked EACC to recover the money from the governor and all other beneficiaries.Newly deployed Mombasa EACC boss George Ajowi said all reports about the alleged graft are being forwarded for action. &ldquo;No one will be spared in the war on corruption irrespective of how powerful you are,&rdquo; he said.Joho could not be reached for comment. County director Richard Chacha told the Star he will internalise Omar&rsquo;s accusations and respond later.