The Food and Agriculture Organisation has appealed for $1 billion (Sh102 billion) to feed more than 40 million people who face the risk of starvation in 41 drought-stricken countries worldwide. South Sudan, Burundi, Ethiopia and Somalia are among the 41 countries in dire need of food aid. Other African countries are Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Libya, Mali and Niger. Ironically, Africa spent $50.2 billion on military expenditure in 2015 as shown by data from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.But this is not news. In 2008, noting that the time for talk was over and that action was urgently needed, FAO Director General Jacques Diouf appealed to world leaders for $30 billion a year to re-launch agriculture and avert future threats of conflicts over food.In an article published in this paper on April 19 last year, headlined, "Food insecurity starves Africa of progress", I wrote that following the unusually strong El Ni&ntilde;o rains, coupled with record-high temperatures afterwards during the year, the UN had warned that about 36 million people across southern and eastern Africa faced hunger. Worst hit would be Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan and Sudan.That came to pass late last year, and has crossed over with us into the New Year. Hunger is a problem that won&rsquo;t go away, not just in Kenya but for Africa and developing countries worldwide. So what are doing wrong, and are we actually doing anything right to tackle it? I think we are not.The first problem is prioritisation of agricultural sector financing. The Maputo Declaration or the CAADP Policy framework recommends this. Despite this, EAC member states prioritised infrastructure development and energy ahead of agriculture in their 2016-16 budgets. They have consistently allocated less that 10 percent of their total budget to agriculture.This is despite the Eastern Africa Farmers Federation, in its 2015 report, recommending that there is an urgent need by the EAC partner states to review their budgetary allocations to the sector to ensure the source of livelihood is safeguarded and improved. Agriculture contributes about 30 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product and employs about 80 per cent of the total work force of these countries.Prioritising agriculture will facilitate technological innovations and their implementation in Africa, and consequently climate smart agriculture. It will also promote research and training in agriculture. But it largely calls for political will.Second, those in research and academia have not gone beyond developing policies and taking action by either pushing for the implementation or implementing of those policies themselves, especially institutions of higher learning.The gradual climate change has without any doubt contributed to decline in food production. Alongside the international community, Africa has to collectively safeguard the environment from any harmful effects of human, social and economic activities. This could take a number of initiatives such as climate smart agriculture that mitigates and sustainably adapts to climate change, formulating and implementing protocols on environment, food security and health as well as ascertaining food production that sustains human heath.Third, WFP observes that if women farmers had the same access to resources as men, the number of hungry people in the world could be reduced by up to 150 million. This therefore calls for ensuring maximum participation of women as well as youths in all sectors including agriculture and other aspects of food security. Unfortunately, as seen in the Sh1.6 billion NYS Scandal and the Youth Fund scandals, and soon to blow up social fund scam, those in power are continuously stealing from those who could use that cash to produce more food &mdash; the youth and those in rural areas.Terms such as the Role of Science in Agriculture, Structural Transformation, Innovation and Technology in Agriculture have been used repeatedly. However, until that point that governments and sector players decide to act, and the word here is act, Africa will remain food insecure, and hence under-developed.