The Chief Justice and President of the Supreme Court David Maraga was in Narok County a few weeks back to inaugurate the construction of the Narok High Court. The significance of this event cannot be underplayed especially if you are a resident of Narok or the larger Transmara.You see, before the Narok High Court was inaugurated, residents were forced to travel to Naivasha and Nakuru to access justice. If you lived in the greater Trans Mara Region, you would probably access justice through the Kisii, Kisumu or Kakamega High court stations. 50 years after independence, the people of Narok County had to contend with this state of affairs. The judicial transformation has however provided hope for the resident of Narok County with the construction of the Narok High court. The 60 Million shillings ultra-Modern facility is expected to drastically reduce the case backlog currently witnessed Naivasha and Nakuru courts as well as providing easy access to the wheels of justice by the residents in Narok. Devolution is equally on the transformative stages, redefining development in the grassroots after 50 years of &lsquo;Nairobi dependency&rsquo;. How then Can the Devolved unit work with the Judiciary to improve access to the courts? Taking a cursory look at the Judicial transformation in Kenya, stakeholders such as donors, NGO&rsquo;s and the Treasury have played crucial roles in the progress made so far, but a key agent stuck predominantly on the periphery is the County Governments. The issue of separation of powers is a fundamental doctrine in the Kenyan constitution. The devolved Units and the judiciary have distinct roles. I am however of the firm belief that the separation of powers doesn&rsquo;t mean that the two parties cannot cooperate in undertaking their constitutional mandates . The judiciary and the County government serve the same Kenyans in their own unique way. The sensitive nature of the role played by the judiciary is fraught with enormous risks especially when it comes to cooperation with other arms of government. The interference with the independence of the judiciary becomes a possibility. On the flipside, for both the Judiciary and the counties, complementing each other ought to be the glue that connects the two parties but with a respect for the limits upon which the relationship cannot transcend. Suffice to say, cooperation is quite possible without interfering with the judiciaries independence. In Narok County, The Local Government was among the first of the 47 devolved units to donate two parcels of land for the construction of the High Court. This gesture allowed the judiciary administration to focus on building the court and avoid the hassle and the pitfalls involved in land purchase. Other area of cooperation that Narok County is exploring in complementing the judicial transformation is providing housing amenities for key judicial staff such as Presiding judges and registrars. This will go a long way in assisting the court officials in settling down in their new work station, saving them time, money and energy that would have been dispensed looking for alternative accommodation. The county governments will be required to play a significant role in the adoption of alternative dispute resolution mechanism by the judiciary. Uganda is one success story of a country utilizing traditional approach in resolving disputes among communities through local community elders and networks. Truth be told, County Governments are political establishment, be that as it may, the leaders represent the people. You cannot discount leaders from solving disputes within the communities nor can you discount ADR(Alternative Dispute Resolution) from the political sphere. In Narok County for Instance, Governor SamuelTunai has managed to settle land disputes tracing back over 10 years in various land ranches such as Naroosura and Naigara Group Ranch by bringing warring parties together in mediation talks involving the clergy and the community elders. Maybe it&rsquo;s high time the judiciary explores ways through which leaders in the political sphere can be roped into the transformative agenda. The County leadership can play a huge role in improving the perception and acceptability of the judiciary in the grassroots. One of the fundamental reasons why Kenyans result to civil disobedience is the lack of trust in court mediated processes. To earn back the peoples trust, the judiciary should consider using Governors as ambassadors of their change message to the grassroots.Close relations, in particular, working relations between County Governments and the judiciary is required if we are to address the problems facing Kenyans. Both the Devolved units and the Courts can work together to improve the dispensation and access of the justice systems to Kenyans. This will only be realized if a proper mechanism is put in place by both players. It&rsquo;s an avenue worth exploring for both parties, despite it not being given its proper place in issue of National significance.