Farmers in key water source areas will get a new smart financing fund of more than Sh800 million.The fund will be launched today in Nairobi and 21,000 farmers are expected to benefit. The fund, the first of its kind in Africa, will help to reduce soil erosion, drought and water shortages.Private companies in Nairobi, including the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company, Coca Cola, Pentair Ltd and the EABL are investing in the Upper Tana-Nairobi Water Fund.They are backed by international conservation investors led by the Nature Conservancy and the International Fund for Agricultural Development. The money will initially help 21,000 farmers in Upper Tana to conserve water and reduce soil erosion that leads to silt-clogged rivers and dams. It will also be used to finance the planting of trees, earning farmers a better income.A portion of the money will be put into an investment account called &lsquo;Endowment&rsquo;. The money will earn interest, which will be used to fund future conservation projects.This leaves the original money intact, ensuring the interest, estimated at more than Sh75 million a year, is earned and spent for years to come. Nature Conservancy&rsquo;s Water Funds director in Nairobi Fred Kihara said business owners know they can only grow if they get reliable water supplies. &ldquo;The growing population of Kenya&rsquo;s towns and cities know they can only survive if they, too, can be sure of clean water,&rdquo; he said.Kihara said the Upper Tana-Nairobi Water Fund is the smartest way to guarantee projects that protect water supplies are secure.The Nature Conservancy helped convene public-private partners to share lessons from Latin America, develop a business case and register a charitable trust in Kenya.He said the Tana River supplies 95 per cent of the water to Nairobi&rsquo;s four million residents and another five million people living in the watershed. &ldquo;It also feeds one of the country&rsquo;s most important agricultural areas and provides half of the country&rsquo;s hydropower output. With Nairobi contributing 60 per cent of the country&rsquo;s GDP, the Tana River truly fuels Kenya&rsquo;s economic growth,&rdquo; he said. Forests on steep hillsides and areas of wetlands have been converted to agriculture, removing natural areas for storing runoff water and soil from the land since the 1970s. Now, as rain falls over farms, soils are washed down into the river, which reduces the productivity of farmland and sends sediment into the rivers.