To say the opposition Cord will have a tough time in assuaging the interests of its constituent parties in the impending primaries is only half the truth.The full truth is that this challenge is real. But it faces all the major political parties as the race to the 2017 general election enters the home stretch.The problem of nominations shenanigans is broad. It has been with us before, but far from being restricted to the opposition, it afflicts all the major coalitions, even Jubilee Party.Just see JP's Nairobi gubernatorial contest to appreciate the hard reality of the challenges facing the political big boys in the forthcoming nominations.Even though they are in power, the fight within Jubilee for the control of the city is something of an embarrassment as efforts to get consensus prove a tough call.The smaller political parties are much safer and they stand to benefit a great deal from the impending fallout. Kanu has positioned itself in the Rift Valley. Peter Munya is doing the same in Mt Kenya, ready to harvest from the disgruntled.Obviously the law has tightened things. Every one has to make up their mind to be a member of a political party the moment the IEBC gazettes the party lists.This will make it difficult for those last-minute defections we are accustomed to. But you are sure in the event that party nominations are bungled those unhappy with the process and outcome will gang up and support candidates in smaller parties to spite their big coalitions.There is a big likelihood that whoever wins the race for President risks having no control of Parliament. Smaller parties will control the House and the ruling coalition may end up on the minority side.Most important, there is need for the big coalitions to check out some facts. Currently the IEBC is receiving lists of aspirants. Note that there is no list for coalitions, only political parties. We have no coalitions register. This raises a legal issue, how can a coalition claim to field a candidate when there is no coalition list or register? What if disgruntled individuals challenge situations where coalitions will have fielded a candidate in court? There is a real risk that fascination with coalition candidates could be injurious to political parties should the courts declare that there are no coalitions registers.