A security expert has said cattle rustling should be declared a serious crime and severe punishment imposed on perpetrators.Public security and safety expert Simiyu Werunga yesterday said cattle rustling must be treated like robbery.&ldquo;The biggest problem is that we are treating cattle rustling as a traditional practice. We no longer need to pretend,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.Werunga said illegal firearms in the hands of Kenyans have led to increased insecurity. &ldquo;The Pokomo in Tana River, for instance, used to hold no firearms, but they are now armed after constant attacks by the Somalis,&rdquo; he said.Werunga said people feel the government&rsquo;s capacity to provide security has diminished. He said the mopping up of illegal arms has failed, encouraging robbers and criminals to acquire pistols and rifles.Late last year, the government ordered the disarmament of pastoralists in Laikipia and neighbouring counties.The decision followed tension in parts of Laikipia as Samburu and Turkana communities clashed over pasture and cattle rustling.Werunga said those implementing the law must also be held to account for their actions.Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel has described the situation as &ldquo;bad&rdquo;. Lempurkel accused police of harassing residents in the disarmament exercise. &ldquo;Disarmament is an illegal operation as it is being done selectively. All communities have weapons, but the government is targeting the Samburu community. This is political,&rdquo; he said. Yesterday, Laikipia police county commander Simon Kipkeu told the Star that cattle rustlers raided Mugie Conservancy on Monday night. Thirty-one cattle and four camels were stolen. He said one worker was killed. &ldquo;The elders know where the cattle are and they will be returned,&rdquo; he said. But residents told the Star the Pokot stole 490 steers from Mugie. They said the cattle are worth Sh30 million. The residents accused police of failing to resolve the situation. They said county commissioner Onesmus Musyoki has been trying to coordinate a response team, but the rustlers overpowered them. &ldquo;It is turning into a war, which is one-sided as the armed gangs destroy residents property,&rdquo; a resident, who sought anonymity, said.Several cases of violence and conflicts and cattle rustling have been witnessed in the area in the past few years. In June 2015, at least six people were killed and scores injured in fighting between Samburu herdsmen and residents of Il Ngwesi Group Ranch.In November last year, residents and conservancy owners in Laikipia raised concerns over increased violence and invasion of their rangelands. This was after four people were killed in North and West Laikipia. In December last year, a Pokot cattle rustler and a member of a gang of thieves was killed while loading cattle onto a lorry at Survey in Laikipia West. The gang had repeatedly struck in the area for several weeks, stealing dozens of cattle from communities and ranches. Hundreds of millions of shillings worth of cattle were stolen in Laikipia, with very little action by police or government.Western diplomats have expressed concerned about the events in Laikipia that if the situation fails to improve, there may be the possibility of travel advisories advising caution to international tourists thinking of travelling to the county. Leaders in Laikipia and Samburu have, however, disagreed over how to handle the invasion by pastoralists in Laikipia, with some supporting the disarmament as ordered by Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery last October, while others think the move will be an abuse of human rights.This comes on the back of persistent drought, which has driven herders to the area in search of pasture.The influx of herders has led to constant conflicts with private ranchers, as the pastoralists invade their land.The clashes have been on and off, but peaked around September last year, when heavily armed pastoralists invaded private ranches. Traditionally pastoralist families had small herds. Now &lsquo;big men&rsquo;, politicians and corrupt officials have huge herds with several thousand heads, but they do not own sufficient land to graze the cattle. They use their relatives as herdsmen. &ldquo;The violence hitting Laikipia is a political land grab by militant Samburu politicians against all other ethnic groups ahead of the election. They are using vast numbers of cattle as a weapon to invade land, hoping to drive out the rightful owners and voters for other parties,&rdquo; a Nanyuki resident said in November last year.Segera ward administrator Maina Kibocha said there are many illegal guns in the hands of the pastoralists.