Washington Post journalist Radley Balko refers to it as the rise of the warrior cop - the title of his 2013 book in which he writes about the militarization of America's police forces. He writes about the increasing tendency of police forces to rely on military-style gear and tactics, even in situations that appear devoid of any real threat to officers&rsquo;safety. The escalation of a military-like police force started as early as the 1960&rsquo;s in opposition to the Black Panther groups. Police exploited the perception that they needed higher amounts of firepower to match their opposition.On Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled 500 police vehicles, among them 25 Mine Resistant Personnel Carriers and 30 Armoured Personnel Carriers, which will be deployed to volatile areas. President Uhuru said this was part of police modernisation programme. This was the third phase with the first two having deployed 2,200 vehicles. About 150 officers have been trained to operate them. This couldn't have come at a better time. There are ongoing clashes in the Kerio Valley, Laikipia and Kitui. Commendable. But there is a thin line between modernisation and militarization.According to former US Attorney General Edwin Meese, when police officers face unusually dangerous situations, they need all possible protective equipment, including specialised gear and vehicles that may be used by the military. That officers must take extreme precautions by using special safety measures to avoid the risks that come with the severe hazards involved in such operations. We have lost police officers in the war on terror in some instances due to lack of equipment. At times, their Land Cruisers run over LEDs planted by al Shabaab militants. They obviously need to be well equipped. In fact, the Star editorial on Tuesday called for action in these areas. However, security analyst Andrew Franklin says to be effective, there is need to develop a strategy, find a doctrine and then acquire the equipment required to conduct operations. Seems backward here, he says. In June last year, 400 officers and two APCs were deployed in the Kerio Valley. Attacks are still being reported. A 2015 Department of Justice investigation into brutality by the Philadelphia Police Department found that the way officers are trained may be a contributing factor to excessive use of force. It also found that officers have the mistaken assumption that being "in fear of their life" is justification for use of force.Militarization is further complicated by organised crime and terrorism, and its use in the policing of protests and elections. In Uganda for example, police and the military were deployed in Kampala ahead of the 2016 general election. APCs were present. Again, there is a thin line between maintaining the peace and intimidation.In his Siasa column in this paper on December 31, 2016, Senator from Kisumu county, Anyang' Nyongo, explained how in 1966,Uganda President Milton Obote sent the military to the Ugandan Parliament as he entered the august House to present a new Constitution. With a stroke of a pen, he had abrogated the Independence Constitution, removed the post of Prime Minister, created an executive President and abolished the kingdoms. The MPs were then asked to pass the new Constitution. Recently, armed police were deployed to Parliament buildings during the debate on the electoral amendments now law.We don't compare ourselves to Uganda in terms of democracy, but that is a point we wouldn't want to get. Militarization, studies show, not only causes the police to treat civilians as the enemy but also causes civilians to see the police force as the enemy. Use of military equipment is not policing. It's is military ordinance. Alternatives are community policing and, as the last resort, military deployment. For instance, KDF officers were deployed to the Boni Forest to flash out al Shabaab. Another Star editorial on Thursday called for deployment of KDF in Laikipia.Militarization has been observed in the US, Canada, Brazil, Columbia, Germany, Mexico and Indonesia. It will be interesting to see how security experts and scholars will respond to these developments.