I am now convinced that President Uhuru Kenyatta is always exasperated because he is mostly clueless that he gets lies published."ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi joined government as a Cabinet minister when I was in school. He was plucked from school and appointed minister and to date, he cannot show what he did for Kenyans,&rdquo; the President said.First it is inconceivable that one can serve in Cabinet for so long if he is not effective.Second, the insult is then actually directed at retired Presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki, under whom Mudavadi served. But didn&rsquo;t both of them serve as Deputy Prime Ministers? Wasn&rsquo;t Mudavadi Uhuru&rsquo;s running mate in 2002? Wasn&rsquo;t it Uhuru, realising he wouldn&rsquo;t cut it as President, who ran to Mudavadi as his substitute presidential candidate in 2012? Third, Uhuru is partly correct that when Mudavadi was appointed minister in 1989, he was in his final year at Amherst College in the USA. But it is a lie that the ANC leader was &ldquo;plucked from school&rdquo; and made minister. The truth of the matter is that Mudavadi came from the cooperate world to join politics. Last, it is anachronistic to contrast your record as President with that of a Cabinet minister in another administration. The standards of accountability aren&rsquo;t the same.By coincidence, Mudavadi acquitted himself in an interactive interview where he inadvertently said to the President, &ldquo;Flashback to the 1990s and you will find a young minister for Finance who presided over the liberalisation of the economy from state control. I rescued the country from a pariah status. It is me who cleaned up the Goldenberg scandal mess. I streamlined the financial sector by ensuring the independence of the Central Bank. I safeguarded tax collection by establishing the Kenya Revenue Authority. It is me who expanded freedoms by presiding over liberation of the communication sector so that today you may enjoy a variety of media outlets. Even the mobile phone you are using is a product of my work. Less than 10 years ago, it was Mudavadi who anchored devolution into laws that brought in place the county governments. I worked under a very restrictive political environment, but I bravely did it. Kenyans also remember my role as a peacemaker under Kofi Annan following the 2007-08 botched election and the ensuing turmoil.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a curriculum vitae Uhuru as minister with the infamous &ldquo;computer error&rdquo; in the budget can&rsquo;t match.That would seem to settle the matter on who is spreading falsehoods.However, there is the little matter of grey areas in President Uhuru's life. He is of the same age with Mudavadi. In education psychology, to be an overage student at any level is a result of late admission and class repetition for being a slow learner. I doubt the President was endowed with these attributes, given he is a scion of the Kenyatta dynasty and quite eloquent.However, it is quite telling that he would own up being still &ldquo;in school&rdquo; and not &ldquo;at the university&rdquo; or even working at the age of 28 in 1989. And to be at university at that age would be for graduate degree. Did Uhuru&rsquo;s degree take four years? If it were to be found that Uhuru lied about Amherst, then why use a lie to defuse what he alleged to be opposition falsehoods?That leaves us with the conclusion that either the President is mistaking himself to be Deputy President William Ruto, or he is making a new revelation to explain the mystery of what he did before former President Daniel Moi &ldquo;plucked&rdquo; him from nowhere into politics through a failed first attempt in 1997. And now that he has chosen to open the Pandora&rsquo;s box on presidential candidates, would the President therefore care to tell Kenyans what he was doing prior to being trounced by the unknown Moses Mwihia in the Gatundu South parliamentary seat in 1997? Irungu Thatiah&rsquo;s Hard Tackle: The Life of Uhuru attempted biography skids through a dramatised President&rsquo;s life painting a carefree Bohemian existence of a young man with sprinkles of either stints in family business or a leg in the innocuous &lsquo;hustler&rsquo; vocation. The near comic depiction of Uhuru as a clubbing ingrate was laughed off bookshelves as the &ldquo;pain of reading Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s biography&rdquo; by leading literary critic Joyce Nyairo for its worship of deceit.