The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) must be commended for the decisive and principled action they took on the political crisis in Gambia. Originally president Yahya Jammeh had graciously conceded defeat in an election which was properly managed by the Gambian Electoral Commission. His speech went viral in the social media when he said he would retire to his farm in Gambia and fully support the new administration. A few days later, when the president elect, Adama Barrow, hinted that his administration would address all the human rights abuses committed under Jammeh, the latter changed his mind and insisted that there was electoral fraud and a repeat election was necessary. The Chairman of the Electoral Commission would have none of this: he defied the defeated president and defended the results. Fearing for his life, the Chairman fled to neighboring Senegal followed by the President Elect, and the latter was finally sworn into office by a Gambian judge in the Gambian embassy in Senegal.What is remarkable is that during this drama ECOWAS leaders made it very clear to the world that the will of the people of Gambia would have to be respected. That all members of ECOWAS had the responsibility to promote democratic governance. That among the principle tenets of such governance is free and fair elections managed by a truly independent electoral commission. The Commission therefore sent its Chief Executive to Gambia to tell Jammeh that he had no other alternative but to concede defeat, failing which ECOWAS would send a military force to Gambia to force him out of office. Errant presidents abusing the will of the peopleFollowing a series of diplomatic shuttles to Gambia from some ECOWAS heads of state, Jammeh finally flew out on January 21 headed for Equatorial Guinea where another African dictator will be his host until the latter is removed from power as popular struggles for democracy mature in this former Spanish colony.But this is not the first time the West African states have had a collective stand under ECOWAS to promote democracy among its members and to prevent errant presidents abusing the will of the people. When Charles Taylor was trying to stick to power undemocratically in 2003, it was Nigeria under Obasanjo which persuaded him to leave Monrovia and to eventually land in the hands of the International Criminal Court to be tried for human rights abuses at the Hague. Taylor is currently serving his prison sentence in Great Britain. When Laurent Gbagbo refused to concede power to Alasane Ouattara in November 2010 following a presidential election which he had lost, ECOWAS took a firm stand to force him to accept the results. This regional solidarity in defence of the will of the Ivorian people encouraged the international community, including the UN, to undertake a joint international intervention to restore democratic governance to Cote d'Ivoire. Gbagbo, like Taylor, is now on trial at the Hague facing human rights abuses while in power.It must also be noted that Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal tried desperately to stick to power beyond his constitutional mandate. In his case resistance came from the Senegalese people themselves with the active backing of ECOWAS. His attempts to groom his corrupt son, Karim, to succeed him also came to nought. After his defeat his son was arraigned in court and charged with corruption.Coming to the East African Coast, neither the East African Community (EAC) nor the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) have any records to show the extent to which both have gone out of their way to promote and defend democracy among member states. The EAC comprises Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. South Sudan has been waiting in the wings ready to join when she stabilizes politically. IGAD comprises Djibouti, Somalia, Eritrea, Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya. Essentially IGAD countries are those most affected by internal conflicts in the Horn of Africa since the 1950s, conflicts which seem to be escalating every now and again from one troubled spot to the other.The outdated principle of "non interference"It is in attempts to solve these internal conflicts that the IGAD states have not performed very well. The recent case of South Sudan is still fresh in our minds. Following the Addis Ababa Agreement one would have thought that IGAD would take a principled stand in defense of the collective interest of the South Sudan people and not behave opportunistically by siding with the powers that be in Juba. The only argument that makes sense for the IGAD stand is that the organization still operates on the outdated principle of " non interference in the internal affairs of each other". We therefore have to assume that once a strong man rule is established in Juba in exclusion of other legitimate social forces, IGAD will be quite comfortable to welcome South Sudan within its ranks. Cardinal principles of good governance that the organization is committed to must be sacrificed at the alter of expediency in favor of individual members' national interests and the political opportunism of the organization as a whole. This is the major difference between IGAD and ECOWAS. Had Jammeh been the president of an IGAD member state he would still be sitting pretty in Banjul waiting for fellow colleagues to play homage to him at his next inaugural!Tanzania is perhaps right to remain sceptical about political associations with states to the north of her borders. Indeed problems facing the consolidation of democracy in Burundi arise out of the fact that two of her neighbors do not take democratic governance seriously. In both Uganda and Rwanda, having noted the differences between the two countries, popular struggles for democracy is still on the agenda. The transformation of the use of political power at the state level in a democratic fashion will only ensue after the process of acquiring that power is democratized through free and fair elections, something which is still a pipe dream in both Rwanda and Uganda.The politics of authoritarian nostalgiaIn West Africa one could argue that ECOWAS is effective because of the hegemonic role that Nigeria plays in the region. When West Africa was predominantly ruled by military governments, Nigeria was the largest and most powerful military government. She reigned over the region hegemonically. With democratization in Nigeria becoming progressively institutionalized since the Obasanjo years, Nigeria has gained the moral authority to make ECOWAS become a collective regional force to instill democratic political hygiene among its members.The Eastern Africa region is bereft of a hegemonic power. Kenya could have played this role but she has over the years back slid on developing as a regional economic power house, thereby reducing her political influence in the region. Kenya is in no position to champion democratic political hygiene in the region since she herself needs tons of political detergents to clean her internal dirt of human rights abuses and the politics of authoritarian nostalgia. That leaves only Tanzania which is not a member of IGAD and a reluctant partner in the EAC. Uganda, unfortunately, has been sitting uneasily with a head of state who is permanently on stage acting as a development theorist while he presides over a state where the dynamic developmental might of the people still awaits to be released under an appropriate democratic political environment which, of course, remains elusive under Museveni.The potential for East Africa "doing another Gambia" lies somewhere in the future and not today. And that is why progressive forces within the region must collectively work together to support popular struggles for democracy in each country in the region. Together we shall succeed; separated we shall unfortunately fail. A luta continua. A victoria e certa.