The Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company on Sunday started a water rationing programme in major estates.This comes a week after the company announced falling water levels at Ndakaini Dam, the main reservoir that serves the city. The dam is 40 per cent full, translating to an &ldquo;alarming&rdquo; 33 million cubic metres ( 33 billion litres) of water. The dam supplies 85 per cent of the city&rsquo;s water.Speaking in Nairobi on Sunday, NCWSC managing director Philip Gichuki said the rationing will continue until the onset of the long rains in March. &ldquo;We have been forced to reduce the water distribution. If an estate was receiving water for four days, we will reduce it to three days and those receiving for five days will now get water for four days,&rdquo; he said. Gichuki said the dam has only received 250mm of rainfall against the 1,000mm it usually gets by the end of the short rains.The company urged residents to use water sparingly, as there is a risk of further rationing if the rains delay. &ldquo;We want to urge Nairobi residents to use the little water they will be receiving well, so that we can get to the long rains,&rdquo; Gichuki said.Areas that will be severely affected include Lang&rsquo;ata and Karen estates. The Nairobi Northern region including City Park, Ngumba, Huruma, Pangani, Mlango Kubwa, Gigiri and Runda are also expected to be hurt by the rationing. Others that will feel the pinch are Nairobi Central, the Nairobi East and the Nairobi West.Water executive Peter Kimori yesterday told the Star on the phone a prolonged dryspell in the Aberdares, Kikuyu and Mt Kenya areas led to the drastic water reduction in Ndakaini Dam. &ldquo;We are urging Nairobi residents to understand us. These are natural causes that we do not have control over. We urge them to only use water for drinking and cooking. Other uses like washing of cars and watering of flower gardens should be shelved,&rdquo; he said.Kimori said the county will, however, give priority to key facilities such as hospitals and airports, which cannot operate without water. &ldquo;If it does not rain in the near future, then we are in trouble. Some people have started sending me obscene messages, but they need to understand,&rdquo; he said.In a statement on December 13, the United Nations warned Kenya of a worsening drought this year.People and animals lives are at risk because they have not had a chance to recover from the drought in 2014. Rains were also poor in 2015 and 2016, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization said.