Struggling broadcasters may escape heavy penalties for failing to comply with regulations requiring at least 40 per cent of their programming to be local, the regulator said yesterday. This follows ongoing consultations between the Communications Authority and the Media Owners Association over a proposal to air current affairs programmes, largely news and talk shows, as part of the local content.The CA director general Francis Wangusi said most of the newly licensed free-to-air television stations broadcasters have not added significant local content in their programming, citing funding problems.However, they are likely to be warned for flouting the regulations enforced last July.&ldquo;TV stations which have come up are still struggling. But the compliance level with the local content is fairly good. We can say we are 36 per cent on average,&rdquo; he said yesterday in an interview at the CA&rsquo;s headquarters in Nairobi. &ldquo;Development of local programmes is expensive and those stations which are not well established are finding it difficult to comply with the current rates of producing programmes.&rdquo;Penalties, at the discretion of the CA, range from Sh500,000 to 0.2 per cent of the broadcasters&rsquo; annual gross turnover. The CA has a logger which monitors all the radio and TV broadcasts around Nairobi and other regions. The code on local content applies to shows aired between 5am and 11pm, excluding news programmes during which advertisement should not take up more than 10 minutes of the newscast. Recent survey findings by the CA established that the development of local content by the emerging stations is not getting the desired impact in entertainment and contribution socially and culturally. This is because the audience feel some of the programmes are substandard, boring and are allocated insufficient time. The local content roadmap was developed in 2013, aimed at growing the local film industry and create jobs. Under the guidelines, industry players would increase local content in their programming to 40 per cent by June 2016 and to 60 per cent by 2018. Any station that does not comply with the local content quota shall be required to pay fines as may be prescribed by the authority for every year they have violated the rule. The CA says only the national broadcaster KBC, KTN, Citizen, NTV and K24 have met the 40 per cent threshold. &ldquo;A number of the large media houses have complied,&rdquo; Wangusi said, adding: &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t guarantee that the small stations will not be penalised.&rdquo;