Britain does not condone torture or inhumane treatment and its close relationship with the United States allows frank exchanges on areas of disagreement, Prime Minister Theresa May's spokesman said on Thursday. He was responding to questions about comments made by US President Donald Trump in an interview with ABC that the practice of waterboarding "works", which have sparked widespread outrage. May is on her way to the United States where she will meet Trump on Friday. She is the first world leader to meet him since his inauguration last week. "The point is that we have a strong relationship with America and a close relationship with America and that allows us to have frank exchanges, and where we disagree we will make it clear where we disagree," her spokesman told reporters."We do not condone torture or inhumane treatment of any form."The spokesman made the remarks after a TV interview where Trump said he supports the torture of terror suspects."When they're shooting, when they're chopping off the heads of our people and other people, when they're chopping off the heads of people because they happen to be a Christian in the Middle East, when Isis is doing things that nobody has ever heard of since Medieval times, would I feel strongly about waterboarding?" he said."I have spoken with people at the highest level of intelligence and I asked them the question 'Does it work? Does torture work?' and the answer was 'Yes, absolutely'.He continued: "They chop them off and they put them on camera and send them all over the world. So we have that and we're not allowed to do anything?Trump told ABC News he would consult Defense Secretary James Mattis and CIA director Mike Pompeo about what could be done legally to combat radicalism.The president said while radical groups beheaded people in the Middle East "we're not playing on an even field".Trump is expected to order a review that could lead to the reinstatement of a CIA programme to hold terrorist suspects in secret overseas "black site" prisons that used interrogation techniques often condemned as torture, two US officials said on Wednesday. The black sites were used to detain suspects who were captured in the "war on terrorism" launched by former President George W. Bush after the September 11, 2001 attacks. The now defunct programme's Enhanced Interrogation Techniques, which included simulated drowning known as water boarding, were criticised around the world. Former President Barack Obama and other senior US officials denounced water boarding as torture. More on this: Trump could reinstate CIA's secret 'black site' prisons - US officials