Quins will be seeking to bounce back when they host Nondies in a tough Kenya Cup match at the RFUEA ground from 4pm.Quins' unbeaten run came to a halt last weekend when they lost 15-10 to Homeboyz and slipped to second on 30 points, two behind KCB.This will be the second meeting between the two sides this season. In the first, Quins recorded an easy 24-10 win at the Jamhuri Park Showground in November.Quins assistant coach Joe Nganga attributed the loss to complacency from his charges. He is now expecting his charges to make a statement of intent in their match against Nondies."We were lethargic against Homeboyz. Thjere was also a bit of complacency but we have learnt our lessons. I expect us to fire on all cylinders against Nondies,&rdquo; added Nganga. The match should be won upfront. Whoever dominates in the forwards should carry the day . Key for Quins will be battle hardened lock Tony Mutai alongside Kenya international prop James Kangethe, John Kiilu and Herman Humwa. Kevin Keegan is expected to return to flyhalf after playing fullback against the deejays last week. He should partner Lyle Asiligwa who starts at scrumhalf in place of Godfrey Okoth. Okoth has been relegated to the bench.Former Leos winger Ginton Adongo should be starting on the left wing with Patrice Agunda and David Ambunya providing ballast from the centre position.Nondies on their part are expected to field Dennis Ombachi for the first time having signed him from Mwamba during the mid season transfer window. Flanker Eric Okoma replaces vice-captain Cedric Odera who fractured two fingers during a mid-week training session.The other two changes see another Kenya Sevens star Biko Adema coming in for Eric Ombachi at centre, and John Juma at wing in place of twinkle toes Calvins Biko.Ernest Ngong and John Okwara start at loosehead and tighthead prop respectively while Frank Mutuku retains his place at hooker. Henry Fullbright and Joseph Wachira revive their partnership at second row, while eighth man and Clive Akello join Okoma to complete the backrow.Evans Musili starts at scrumhalf while flyhalf FIelden SInei captains the team. Hard hitter Benjamin Marshall will play at inside centre, combining with Adema. A limping Nakuru side travel to Kakamega to face champions Kabras. The former champions were handed a 28-10 thrashing by KCB last weekend at home. League leading KCB face Mean Machine at Kenyatta University at 2pm with Blak Blad hosting Strathmore Leos at 4pm. Impala host Homeboyz and Western Bulls face Mwamba in Kakamega.