The issue of one ID number to multiple people is now so massively preponderant that it requires full disclosure after exhaustive investigations and forensic audit of the National Registration Bureau and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. This is a fair public interest demand since any procrastination will throw the August elections into jeopardy.It&rsquo;s enough that the IEBC is lagging behind on preparation targets, creating fertile ground for chaos. The IEBC has shown bad faith by playing &lsquo;isolationism&rsquo; in its procurement contrary to the amended elections law. There is a joint technical and oversight committee to oversee the sourcing of an integrated electronic system and the regulations aren&rsquo;t in place as the clock ticks towards D-Day, August 8.But that there could be collusion between the NRB and the IEBC in ID issuance and voter registration is the greater threat to constitutionalism and national security yet. Such collusion can only happen and be executed with the concurrence of people at high levels of government. The National Security and Intelligence Service ought to advise that the causative effect of what will disenfranchise genuine ID number holders by introducing ghost same ID number holders is massive rigging of elections that solicits civil strife.For that reason, could the NRB and the IEBC put to rest social media rumours by explaining how Kalonzo Musyoka's ID number 26802319 was used to register voters Elizabeth Muthoni Wanjohi of Ruguru ward, Mathira constituency, Nyeri county and Weldon Kibet Koech of Kiptororo ward, Kuresoi North constituency, Nakuru county?The ID number 26832151 was used to register Mercy Chepkirui in Kapkelei Primary School, Kipsonoi ward of Sotik constituency, Bomet county but again used by Evans Kimathi Gitobu to register at Kayole 1 Primary School, Kayole North ward of Embakasi Central constituency in Nairobi City county. In addition, ID number 26822961 was used by Ann Wamucii Wachira in DEB Karatina Primary School in Mathira constituency of Nyeri county and again used to register Martin Muriuki Kariuki at exactly the same polling station.We could go on but the plot is ingenious for its simplicity &mdash; introduce a non-existent second or third owner of an ID number into ID registration records. Use the &lsquo;ghost&rsquo; ID number to register as a voter. By the time the genuine ID number holder goes to register or confirm the status of their voter registration, they find the &lsquo;ghost&rsquo; has used their number to register elsewhere. If nothing is done by the NRB and the IEBC to correct the &lsquo;error&rsquo; now, by default, the genuine ID holder will not be allowed to vote.Now assuming secondary ID number holders exist, how did they acquire a pre-existing ID number without the NRB being the wiser? Indeed, how come the IEBC couldn&rsquo;t detect the anomaly of an ID being used by multiple people from far flung areas and getting registered as voters in different centres? The reason we should suspect complicity from high up in government is the silence of both the NRB and the IEBC on this matter. Watch the movie The Silence of the Lambs to know why the NRB and the IEBC are mute. In the movie, it is difficult for an FBI cadet to confide in a manipulative killer to get his help to catch another serial killer who skins his victims. Now you know who&rsquo;s who; had there been a genuine technical glitch, it wouldn&rsquo;t have escaped them.Let&rsquo;s end with some invocation: The government owes Kenyans disclosure not because it&rsquo;s a favour but because it&rsquo;s an obligation derived from delegation of power from the people. However, there is a dangerous strain within Jubilee ranks that contemplates ruling rather than governing Kenya. No. Any government in Kenya has only so much delegated power to it to govern. That&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;ve regular elections to vet performance. Unfortunately the Jubilee incantation of &lsquo;ruling&rsquo; Kenya invokes the bad manners of a country under foreign occupation or royalty. The general demeanour of corruption by Jubilee is manifested by organised looting of the public purse. This historically only happens in societies under occupation. We know what colonial rulers did to us by looting our resources. But at no time have the Kenyan peoples surrendered their sovereignty to government. They have only deliberately delegated &lsquo;some&rsquo; authority to various arms of government for purposes of orderly discharge of their co-existence. Elections sorcery won&rsquo;t do; that, the vicarious Jubilee elements must know. Kibisu Kabatesi is a Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi