Broadcasting firms found guilty of fanning hate speech in the run-up to the August 8 general election may have their licences withdrawn, the regulator warned yesterday. The Communications Authority of Kenya said radio and television stations must be ethical in reporting, and should refuse to be used to spread propaganda. &ldquo;If you engage in hate speech be ready to face the law. You risk losing your licence depending on the gravity of issues at hand,&rdquo; director general Francis Wangusi said.The broadcasters being monitored closely are mainly vernacular stations as they are likely to be used to spread hatred against other communities, Wangusi said, noting the authority has cautioned seven of them. &ldquo;We have reports that some journalists working for vernacular stations are engaging in hate speech,&rdquo; Wangusi said. &ldquo;We are working with the National Cohesion and Integration Commission so that action can be taken. We are also planning to hold a meeting with media houses to discuss issues around content.&rdquo; The number of FM radio stations in the country were 139, as at September 30, 2016, latest CA data shows. For the period under review, July to September, the number of free-to-air TV channels on the digital terrestrial platform stood at 63. The number of pay-TV service providers on the Digital Terrestrial Television platform remained two &ndash; GoTV and StarTimes. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said the government is also monitoring online content, but gave reassurance there are no intentions to switch off the internet on the election day. &ldquo;The internet is an extremely important and critical resource for this country. The government itself is a major consumer of the internet,&rdquo; Mucheru said. He was speaking during the opening of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers capacity building workshop for Africa in Nairobi. The number of Internet subscriptions in Kenya was 25.7 million people in the last quarter of 2016, with 35.7 million estimated internet users. This translated to an internet penetration level of 85.3 per cent. Mobile data subscriptions contributed 99 per cent of the data or internet subscriptions. As at the end of 2016-17 quarter one, the digital signal covered 66 per cent of the Kenyan population.