It is said we live in a &lsquo;post-truth&rsquo; era. The Oxford English Dictionary&rsquo;s 2016 word of the year, and the associated accusation of &lsquo;fake news,&rsquo; has come to dominate international political discourse.In Kenya it is emerging that the target of certain inflammatory intrigue is the democratic process itself. And that concerns me greatly.It&rsquo;s one thing fighting dirty with your opponent at the ballot box, but deliberately constructing an environment where faith in the very instruments of democracy is eroded means that whatever the outcome of an election, dissent can be easily incited.It has become clear that the strategy of the opposition is to render as chaotic and confused an election process as possible before campaigning is even underway. But sowing the seeds of distrust in democracy is not a mere act of devious strategising, it is downright dangerous and tears at the very fabric that holds a society together. Calling out &lsquo;Fire!&rsquo; to create a stampede where even the innocent get caught up.Raila&rsquo;s most recent unsubstantiated claim was that the National Intelligence Service was conspiring with the IEBC as it is the only body mandated to register voters,to register foreign nationals in neighbouring countries as voters. The very organisation established to ensure national security is being accused by the opposition of electoral subterfuge.The NIS has rightly hit back, calling the claims &ldquo;highly malicious and intended to undermine the voter registration process&rdquo;.Almost needless to say, the irony of this particular claim is that, seeing as most Ugandan border communities largely belong to the Samia and Bukusu people, they are likely supporters of ODM or Ford Kenya anyway.One would imagine if it rains on polling day that will also be cited as a cynical masterplan of the establishment.But each crank theory espoused by the opposition is calculated to engender doubt among the electorate. And doubt has a nasty habit of growing insidiously and spreading through the community until distrust has taken root in every aspect of public life.First, Raila tried to suggest that having a manual backup for vote counting if the electronic system were to fail was in some way additional apparatus designed to distort the results. Rather than insist upon a pragmatic measure to account for potential glitches, it better suits him to establish a window of doubt so that he can call the election outcome into question.For a man who claims to want the elections not to be rigged, it seems contradictory to seek to block the appointment of internationally acclaimed auditor KPMG to aid the IEBC. Contrast this behaviour to the appointment of Wafula Chebukati, a man with historically close tiesto ODM, as the chair of the IEBC by the President, and it would appear while one man is persevering in his quest to build a post-tribal, inclusive political system, his opponent is acting like a wrecking ball aimed at democracy itself.But Raila&rsquo;s peddling of mad conspiracy theories is no laughing matter. It was exactly this scourge of suspicion that fed the post-election troubles in 2007-08.Constantly pushing the image that Kenya will have a corrupt ballot cruelly undermines Kenyans&rsquo; confi dence in their own nation and cynically damages Kenya&rsquo;s credibility on the world stage. It deters foreign companies from investing, tourists from coming and businesses from trading, harming the economy. It undermines Kenya&rsquo;s kudos as a democratic nation within the African Union and the Commonwealth.It invokes deep distrust that propels people to believe there&rsquo;s cause for mass protest until this tragically becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. It creates a country where people regard not only the government with entrenched suspicion, but their fellow citizens too.Opening the papers it has become woefully clear that the opposition is using no other platform to campaign. No positive vision or policy pledge. No message of progress for the people of Kenya.Lurching from one conspiracy theory to another is irrational and reckless. By undermining the confidence of Kenyans in their own democratic systems, Raila undermines his own democratic mandate were he to win, by pitching people against politics in a divided country that would take decades to repair.President Uhuru Kenyatta last week unequivocally announced that he would hand over power if he were to lose the election in August. He conceded in 2002, so this would not be the fi rst time he has accepted defeat gracefully.Can Raila tell Kenyans unequivocally, too, that for the first time in his own political history, he would gracefully accept a loss at the ballot box this year?