Against All Odds,By Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka with Caleb Atemi, Published by Peace Book Co Ltd,17/F, Paramount Building, 12 ka Yip Street, Chai Wan, 244pp,Hong Kong,2016 THE 10th and last Vice President of Kenya under the Old Constitution, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, 63, has followed in the footsteps of the founding VP, the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga (1911-1994) in writing his memoirs. The Jaramogi&rsquo;s memoirs were famously titled Not Yet Uhuru and were published in 1967, barely three years after Independence. They were written with Ruth First (1925-1982), the South African ant-apartheid activist and scholar and wife of Joe Slovo, also an anti-apartheid activist and leader of the South African Communist Party. Kalonzo&rsquo;s autobiography is entitled Against All Odds and is written with journalist Caleb Atemi, formerly of the Nation Media Group. Odinga was 56 when Not Yet Uhuru was published, but the older man had the more epic life to report even in his mtd-50s and First was a great writer and editor. The first VP and the 10th lived very different lives in very divergent times. The first edition of the Jaramogi&rsquo;s memoirs had a foreword by Kwame Nkrumah, a titan of Africa&rsquo;s independence struggle and the first African Prime Minister (of independent Ghana in February 1957). And Odinga Snr was a remarkably observant man. For instance, Kalonzo has nothing that approaches this level of self-awareness in the midst of history in the making, seeing both the big picture and one&rsquo;s place in it: &ldquo;We had self-government at last, but not before thorough preparations had been made. A precaution taken by the British before moving out, I found, was the destruction, or perhaps just the removal, of records of their administration, especially of the vital Emergency period. There were blank spaces on shelves and empty drawers in the ministries where files had been removed. I found it amusing that I could nowhere trace the file on myself: I must have had a dossier? My friends in Nairobi told me that they had seen the chimneys of the Central Government Building smoking for weeks before our government moved in: The record of the past was being burnt&rdquo;. For his part, Kalonzo goes back to the very beginning, saying, &ldquo;I was conceived in wartime. The Mau Mau in Kenya had intensified their fight against the British colonialists to reclaim the land taken from black Africans by white settlers. Theirs was a ruthless campaign against an equally ruthless regime. At the time of my birth, the colonial government had declared a state of emergency across Kenya. To survive the bush war, the Mau Mau raided villages in search of food and water. The eastern part of Kenya became one such battleground. There was more trouble whose roots were across the northeastern border of modern Kenya into Somalia.&rdquo; Dwelling on his boyhood, Kalonzo even captures the very instant of his first rite of passage &ndash; his circumcision: &ldquo;I stood stock still. The beats of the traditional instrument (Maleve) which moments ago sounded like whispers moved closer and became louder. The moment everyone had been waiting for was finally here. My godfather had encouraged me to endure the painful experience with stoicism. Crying or even grimacing, I was warned, were cowardly acts. My body tensed and my muscles twitched as I watched the surgeon walk towards me, knife in hand. For a moment my mind almost went blank, then a shout from the men who had come to witness the occasion, reminded me that I was a brave warrior upon whom my people can rely on to save the community. I remembered my brave grandfather and knew he was watching me with pride. I smiled as I watched the foreskin fall onto the dry soil, followed by drops of blood. A brave little warrior had been born. Kalonzo Musyoka had become a man! I walked away with pride. I could confidently face my grandfather. He could share with me all the secrets of the adult world which he had kept from me until this time. I listened to the shouting, screaming and ululations as the boys and men from my village celebrated my first journey into adulthood. The cutting of the foreskin literally symbolizes that dramatic entry into adulthood&rdquo;. This stands in the greatest contrast to Raila Odinga&rsquo;s 2013 memoir The Flame of Freedom (written with the editor Sarah Elderkin), where the former Prime Minister, for whom Kalonzo was running mate in that year&rsquo;s Presidential race, said, &ldquo;One of my main battles, however astonishing it might seem, was to fend off the puerile accusation that I could not lead Kenya because &ndash; it was presumed from my ethnicity &ndash; I was not circumcised. &ldquo;. . . I was very tired of this irrelevancy and decided I would speak out firmly and put the matter to rest once and for all. I chose what I thought was an appropriate platform, in Teso, where the local residents do not customarily circumcise, and where I addressed a series of rallies. &ldquo;First, I amused the crowd by pointing out that all the complaints about uncircumcised men were being made by men. The women were not complaining. I said I did not know of what interest a man&rsquo;s manhood was to another man, unless the couple was gay.&rdquo; Where Raila described his parting of ways with Kalonzo over ODM-Kenya in the run-up to the 2007 General Election, Kalonzo describes how and why he joined hands with President Kibaki by becoming his Vice President at the height of the post-election violence crisis of 2008. Kalonzo says if he had not moved to join Kibaki the PEV would have become so bad it would have reached his Lower Eastern redoubt, where there are numerous Kikuyu settlers. Kalonzo prefaces one chapter with a quote from States of Emergency, a book by Alastair Matheson, a one-time information officer during the colonial period. Matheson once famously claimed that despite the man&rsquo;s association with Soviet Russia and Red China, the Jaramogi had been a British agent for decades, a claim that many anti-Odingaists toted down to his insider&rsquo;s knowledge of the last British administration in colonial Kenya. A memoir that captures Kalonzo&rsquo;s instant of circumcision and invokes the views of a Briton who obviously had no time for Odinga Snr reads fundamentally like an anti-Raila Odinga tract. This comes out most clearly in Kalonzo&rsquo;s account of what went on behind the scenes during and immediately after the ill-fated 2007 Presidential election, which was Kibaki&rsquo;s attempt at reelection and which the post-election violence crisis of 2008 made a particularly pyrrhic victory. It took international mediation to quell the PEV crisis and all-party talks mediated by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan to craft the National Accord and create the Grand Coalition administration in which Raila became only the second Prime Minister in independent Kenya. Kalonzo paints a portrait of himself as being more sinned against than sinning, by practically every Kenyan leader he has ever served, served with or otherwise transacted with. Some readers will find this both irritating and unconvincing. Kalonzo and Rail should be commended for writing their life stories and reflecting on their own life lessons. More, including younger, Kenyan leaders should offer their memoirs to a reading audience whose idea of memoir writing comprises mainly Western leaders such as Bill and Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and George W. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, for example, would do well to write their memoirs in the near future (including the inside story of the ICC cases), as should Peter Kenneth, Martha Karua (her take on the PEV crisis would be very interesting indeed) and Evans Kidero, among many others.