Meru leaders have criticised presidential hopeful Kennedy Mong&rsquo;are for drafting an impeachment motion against President Uhuru Kenyatta.They said such a motion will not succeed and will be shot down by Jubilee members in the Senate and the National Assembly.Mong&rsquo;are seeks to impeach the President for the deaths occasioned by the ongoing doctors&rsquo; strike, which, he argues, is in gross violation of the Constitution.Led by Senate Majority leader Kithure Kindiki, they said Mong&rsquo;are is only looking for ways to popularise himself. Kindiki said any attempt to impeach the President will be torpedoed by JP troops.&ldquo;I advise my brother to busy himself with realistic political activities and not fantasy. Such ideas are cheap, mischievous and calculated to seek the attention he lacks but craves, now that he has said he wants to be President. Such a motion if brought will be dead-on-arrival,&rdquo; he said.Terming Mong&rsquo;are a wannabe, Kindiki said the motion is not realistic and cannot be actualised. North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood said the Nyamira senator is trying to gain publicity, adding that the health sector is devolved.&ldquo;If he insists, we&rsquo;ll defend our President. Let him tell the nation what he has done. Let him give solutions, instead of threats,&rdquo; Dawood said.Cheap politicsSouth Imenti legislator Kathuri Murungi said the senator is playing cheap politics on a matter as serious as the presidency. &ldquo;Monga&rsquo;re woke up one day with a dream to become a presidential candidate. He is trying to seek attention with a view that he will be considered a serious contender,&rdquo; he said.Igembe North MP Joseph M&rsquo;Eruaki said Mong&rsquo;are is a joker seeking popularity by trying to fight the President, who, he said, is bigger than him, adding that the senator will gain no momentum.He said the grounds under which Mong&rsquo;are wants to impeach Uhuru are unconstitutional and inadequate to sustain such a motion. &ldquo;You can create a name by trying to fight someone bigger than you. Mong&rsquo;are is a nonentity and he knows very well he can&rsquo;t generate enough support for the impeachment. He should come up with a better proposal,&rdquo; M&rsquo;Eruaki said.Mong&rsquo;are will have to lobby support for the motion. The Constitution requires at least one-third support of all members of the National Assembly if it is to proceed.