THE rancorous debate on the possibility of a compromised election in 2017 lacks in depth and circumvents the question of corruption and its impact on the credibility of the elections. Contrary to popular opinion, the stealing of elections does not happen on Election Day, but rather in the months and years leading up to the vote. Let me break this down a bit. The social and economic problems that Kenya faces today are not problems that cannot be solved. But to solve them requires leaders who have the interest of the nation at heart. Unfortunately, Kenya has slipped into a dangerous cycle in which politicians scramble to be elected at all cost and, if they should succeed, they end up spending their entire terms in office scheming and amassing money for the next elections. Both the people seeking to be elected and those who line up in the hot sun to vote them into office have implicitly accepted that our elections are not about solving the country&rsquo;s problems. Elections in Kenya have lost meaning and have degenerated into a dangerous sport in which the voters gamble with their very lives to elect into office clueless politicians whose only claim is that they have money. The more money a politician has, the more he or she is elevated. Candidates are judged not by their ideas and track records, but by how much money they have to spend on the elections.It is in this context that I find the rigging claims and accusations by Cord and Jubilee rather shallow and misleading. In all this noise, the public is lulled into believing that the real rigging takes place on Election Day. This is far from the truth. The real risk that Kenya faces in these and previous elections is that we end up with people in office who are either incompetent or who have no interest in serving the nation.Consider, for example, that, just two days ago, the computer system that is used to manage Customs at all US airports malfunctioned, inconveniencing thousands of inbound international travellers.The rot in Kenya&rsquo;s election process is twofold: lack of trust and a population that has lowered its expectations to a point where they are willing to be robbed and abused and still stand in line and beg for more. Pete Ondeng is a leadership consultant, author and speaker