FOR the first time in the multiparty era, opposition leader Raila Odinga does not have a party and a brand he can market for a very special general election. The August 8 poll&rsquo;s Presidential election is only the second time in the post-Kanu era that a President of Kenya will be seeking reelection.The first post-Kanu President to seek reelection was Mwai Kibaki in 2007, and that contest led to a result disputed by Raila, mass action in his name and the post-election violence crisis of 2008 that took international mediation to resolve.The mediation culminated in the National Accord compromise and the Grand Coalition regime of 2008-2013, an interval during which there was no official opposition in Kenya. Raila became the second Prime Minister since Independence.Raila has only ever used the same political vehicle twice in two subsequent elections (in 2007 and 2013). He is now waiting for the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy to transform itself into a big-tent formation along the American model, the National Super Alliance.As he and other Cord principals wait for NASA&rsquo;s launch and standard-bearer, the final national mass registration of voters for the 12th General Election has completed its first week and the figures of new voters are very interesting indeed.At the end of Week One both Mt Kenya (139,000, or 87% of target) and Rift Valley (163,371, or 60% of target) had registered 37 per cent of all newly registered voters. The Cord strongholds registered apathetic numbers of new voters &ndash; Coast 95,681 (58%); Nyanza 95,945 (48%); and Western 75,193 (43%).Raila told a rally at the Tudor matatu stage, Mombasa, on Wednesday that the low numbers of people registering as voters in Coast, Eastern and other Cord strongholds was unacceptable. Raila declared, &ldquo;The only weapon you can use to send the Jubilee government home is the voter&rsquo;s card&rdquo;.MASS REGISTRATION WILL DECIDE AUG 8 OUTCOMERaila is emphatic that the final mass registration, which ends on February 14, will decide the general election. He means, of course, the presidential election component. But what happens if, on Valentine&rsquo;s Day, Jubilee has far more registered voters than the massed opposition? After all, at the outset of the final registration JP had 1.1 million more registered voters than Cord, according to IEBC figures.In a statement on January 11, Raila said, among other things: &ldquo;We must monitor the exercise. Where there are impediments to registration like the absence of kits and unnecessary registration requirements, these must be recorded and communicated in real time. Each day, we must register the maximum number possible. We must not allow the IEBC to get away with mischief.&ldquo;We appeal to you to be our eyes and our ears on the ground on this exercise. We, in turn, shall continue to be your eyes and ears up here against Jubilee. But we also promise that you shall never walk alone in this exercise. As your leaders, we shall be visiting your areas to give you the push and the guidance that you may need.&ldquo;We are tasking our youth to stand up for our country and our future. I am reminding our youth that we had a deal that they would move from market to market, house to house, church to church, and school to school to get every one of voting age to register. It is my hope the youth will keep the promise they made to me and enter their names into the annals of our country&rsquo;s history.&ldquo;The only weapon you can use to send the Jubilee government home is the voter&rsquo;s card&rdquo;.But what if, in a fortnight&rsquo;s time, JP still has by far and away the bigger number of registered voters? The party&rsquo;s leaders have many of the advantages of incumbency and their turnout machine will be even more fearsomely well organized than in 2013. What then?&lsquo;NUMBERS DON&rsquo;T LIE, CHECK THE SCOREBOARD&rsquo;By the time NASA begins to come together, the voter registration will have ended.What effect would clearly superior JP voter numbers on February 14 have on an opposition that has yet to agree on one presidential candidate and line-up, that is to all intents and purposes un-branded for purposes of August 8, is rudderless for lack of a unified leader and has never been in a tighter corner?In 2013, positing his &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo; factor, political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi remarked that Raila lost that year&rsquo;s election the minute the final mass registration was closed in late December 2012. &ldquo;Numbers don&rsquo;t lie, check the scoreboard&rdquo; is JP&rsquo;s mantra during this final month of voter registration. If the vast voter registration that Raila envisages does not happen for Cord over the next fortnight, he has multipronged strategies standing by, a number of which he has already put into motion, including escalating the propaganda war on Jubilee to outrageous heights.The question of JP registering a commanding lead in the final mass voter registration cuts both ways. In the unlikely event that Cord registers more than, say, two million more voters than JP by February 14, what becomes of the incumbent regime? Does it become a Kanu-like sitting duck just waiting to be shot out of the water by opposition juggernaut NASA?In JP strategists&rsquo; eyes, Raila's escalation of political paranoia, including the attacks this past week on the NIS, cannot be allowed to stand. He intimates there &ldquo;will be no country left to talk about&rdquo; if his side of the political divide is dissatisfied with the conduct and, or results of the presidential election. There has even been talk of NASA&rsquo;s presidential candidate being sworn in in a neighbouring country as the Fifth President of Kenya soon after August 8!Jubilee, President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto believe Raila is setting the stage for chaos and that this should be pointed out from as many sides as possible, including the private sector, friendly members of the post-Barack Obama/David Cameron Diplomatic Corps in Nairobi, the Church/other faiths and civil society.Whatever your political perspective, allegations of these outrageous proportions really ought to be accompanied by evidence. After all, Raila has coup-maker on his CV and the levels of de-legitimization of JP and the security intelligence service he is attempting should be intelligently and coherently countered. But Jubilee is doing a poor job of defending itself against Raila&rsquo;s unrelenting onslaught.THE BIGGEST ISSUE ON AUGUST 8The Nairobi-based International Policy Group points out in a new report in the weekly series &lsquo;Ground Zero&rsquo;, &ldquo;A fragile electoral system and its processes are going to be the biggest issue in this election. An obstructed and unprepared electoral commission [poses] the risk the election will be compromised in efficiency and effectiveness . . . The electoral process will take place in a highly polarized environment. The process is running out of time so fast that it will hardly have the time to build credibility and legitimacy for itself. The only way the system will acquire that credibility is in the way it conducts the election. The means and the results will be critical&rdquo;.The IPG goes on: &ldquo;Should the opposition succeed in scuttling the electoral process, a constitutional and political crisis would ensue in a polarized environment that will definitely end up in violence and mass atrocities. Should the government continue to use its numbers and mandate to ensure the electoral process is executed, the cries of unilateral action would continue, with the opposition defining the electoral process as unilateral and rigged, polarizing the country further as well.&rdquo;As the IPG avers, the litmus test for Kenya&rsquo;s democracy today is the legitimacy of the electoral process. But Cord has declared war on the credibility of the process itself. The IEBC team led by Wafula Chebukati as chairman is the fourth electoral agency in a decade. And it is the least experienced of all previous agencies with the possible exception of the now-defunct ECK. And yet he IEBC&rsquo;s legitimacy is dependent on bipartisan support among the major political players &ndash; all of them.