Let me tell you how it felt to miss a much awaited episode of Music Time on Sunday nights, back in 1990s.Back then, you needed to sit right by your TV, and wait patiently, albeit with bated breath, as Fred Obachi Machoka, the presenter, promised you heaven. The guy would not disappoint.So imagine you have been promised all those goodies, then you miss the program. Say the electricity-another rare commodity back then- decided to take a French leave!Now zoom to 2017. Things are totally different. We do not wait for program lineups on TV any more. Whatever we want to watch, we will get it. Whether on the Internet or by recording on some high tech TVs, we are way ahead of 1990s!So,let's say you have missed the latest episode of Churchill Show or Naswa. There are plenty of options for what you would love to watch, and when you can catch them.But it's not just local TV shows that you can watch. On ShowMax you get the best of international shows and movies too - like Game of Thrones, Younger, Billions, Grey's Anatomy, Big Bang Theory - all the top series you can think of.You may not need to keep flipping channels, or fighting for the remote with loved ones.That's why I am going to indulge your senses with the exciting Showmax offer.The good thing about Showmax is that you can pay for your movies, series or other programs from as little as Sh330 per month.Another good thing is that you can watch whatever you like from your smart phone, laptop, or devices that you choose.The days of waiting at the movie guy's shop for them to probably copy a CD before you can buy it then go home and watch, with the risk of having to endure scratches or poor quality, are now looooong in the past.Indeed, the days of less than good enough, and products you are not sure of their authenticity should be rendered obsolete. Time to upgrade to Showmax, guys.Before you go, there are simple and convenient ways to get this internet TV service to watch at your convenience.For those with tablets or smart phones, you can download your favourite movies, or series and watch later, when you do not need data. You can choose to pay for the service through M-Pesa. I need to mention that there is a 14 day free trial for those who would prefer to sign up to the service via credit card. No worries if you change your mind and cancel the service before the 14 day period is over, because you will get ALL your money back!Now..I want you to check out the amazing services by Showmax and download their App today by following this link: http://bit.ly/2jTbXH8