I have it from Jubilee pundits the bipartisan agreement that resulted in the initial amended election laws was a decoy to buy time in the face of the street demonstrations and then waylay the opposition. It was purely a premeditated deception to hoodwink the opposition into a parliamentary process, and then ambush it with the amendments they bulldozed in Parliament using the Tyranny of Numbers.Some blame the opposition for being dealt a sucker punch as it slept on the job. &ldquo;Why didn&rsquo;t they see it coming, when Jubilee coyly agreed to all that the opposition proposed just like a boxer feints before lashing from the blindside?&rdquo; they ask. &ldquo;Couldn&rsquo;t they even notice that President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s usually quick signature dithered when assenting the IEBC changes?&rdquo;If you believe in such reasoning &mdash; the logic that you&rsquo;re to blame because you were fooled &mdash; then you tolerate a government full of conmen, which believes it must get its way by whatever means. It smacks of bad faith to renege on an agreement, given the speed with which the President has assented to the controversial amendments. That&rsquo;s not admirable and Jubilee has been high on deception and duplicity, sparing no sector or citizen. Teachers have a horrid tale of how Jubilee reneged on their Collective Bargaining Agreement. It is now the doctors&rsquo; turn. Public universities&rsquo; staff are bemoaning how Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i abandoned finalising their CBA &ldquo;to go mark exams&rdquo;.Governors were taken round in circles on county functions under commitments Jubilee never intended to honour. There was a lot of fanfare during the &ldquo;re-opening&rdquo; of the Webuye Pan Paper Mills. When someone read through the make-believe, Jubilee hit the roof with epithets. Now, the secret is out that the machine stopped churning the moment the President left.Citizens too have been enjoined in a merry-go-round referred to as commissioning and launching of projects. Some are commissioned over and over again. But Jubilee isn&rsquo;t done yet. Its denouement is in how it wants to win elections this year without &ldquo;actual voters&rdquo; casting their ballot. What is the Jubilee narrative? It is one that makes it look rational and bereft of common sense.It says, &ldquo; Yes, we will use machines to register voters and identify them before they vote. And yes, we will transmit results electronically. But, and it is a big BUT, machines will fail. When that happens, you cannot deny a Kenyan the right to vote because it&rsquo;s unconstitutional.&rdquo;So what do you do? Allow anyone who claims to have registered to vote after verification. But how do you verify if the BVR kit is dead? Jubilee says that&rsquo;s up to the IEBC to fix. And fix the IEBC can &mdash; the dead and underage will vote or be assisted to vote through ballot stuffing. The Jubilee language isn&rsquo;t couched in possibilities of machine failure. No, it is a definite projection of failure, meaning election preparedness is planning to fail.It is claimed that the reason for reverting to a manual system is because technology failed 2013 polls. That&rsquo;s nonsense. The truth is that equipment was installed and deployed to malfunction. Hasn&rsquo;t it been revealed that the IEBC shared a transmission platform with TNA and, sure enough, a &ldquo;mysterious&rdquo; bug multiplied the number of rejected votes by eight?Let&rsquo;s play the dimwits Jubilee expects us to be and agree that the problem with technology is &ldquo;equipment may malfunction, batteries may run out of power and there is no electricity and there are untrained staff manning the equipment&rdquo;. Are these insurmountable? Of course not. Mr President, elections will be won and lost, but there might be no state to govern if good sense doesn&rsquo;t prevail.