Tourism stakeholders at the Coast have cautioned politicians against using inflammatory utterances that may cause violence during the electioneering period, warning that it will hurt the sector.This is ahead of the August 8, general elections which already has seen the sector record low bookings and inquiries by international visitors who have adopted a &ldquo;wait-and-see&rdquo; approach. &ldquo;We want to caution the political class. The kind of rhetoric they used in political rallies might bring about tension and violence, which will then affect the tourism sector,&rdquo; the Kenya Association of Hotelkeeper and Caterers Coast executive director Sam Ikwaye said.He said the travel advisories that were issued by the United States on January 13, will have a negative impact on the international arrivals.Currently , hoteliers are depending on conference tourism and weekend packages for family outings.Hotels are keen to cash in on the February 14, Valentine's day and the April&rsquo;s Easter holidays after reaping form the recent Christmas and New year celebrations, where they recorded up to 100 per cent occupancy.However 2017 being an election year, it has sent jitters to tourism stakeholders who are praying that violence will not break out as witnessed in previous years. The tourism sector has continued to fall victim of the electioneering period as foreign tourists and investors shun the country for fear of violence.This has been the cycle since the disputed 2007 general election which left over 1,000 people dead while hundreds of thousands were of displaced after violence broke across the country. During the President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s regime in 1997, cases of violence were witnessed in Mombasa during the Kaya Bombo ethnic clashes. 1997 was also an election year.In 2013, even though violence was not reported in any part of the country, there was tension which led to fleeing by international tourists over fear of violence.Attacks by the Somali's Al Shabab terror group has also remained a major setback for the tourism sector which has suffered from numerous travel advisories by the Western nations since May 2014. The advisories were in place until June 2015. The sector begun recovering last year recording an upward trend on international arrivals.Kenya&rsquo;s tourism sector recorded a 16.1 per cent growth between January and October, Kenya Tourism Board data shows.Consolidated international arrivals between January and October, by air and sea, closed at 729,682 compared to 628,345 in a similar period in 2015.The US topped as the leading tourist market source for Kenya overtaking the UK. &ldquo;It is surprising that our traditional source market- the UK- has been overtaken by the American market. American market has grown by 16.4 per cent, whereas the UK has declined by 4 per cent,&rdquo; Tourism CS Najib Balala noted, during the launch of rehabilitation of the berth one at the Mombasa port last December. Plans are underway to construct a modern terminal for handling cruise ships.US President Barack Obama&rsquo;s visit in 2015 is believed to have played a critical role in giving the American confidence to visit Kenya.Next month, Balala is expected to meet over 3,000 US travel agents and government officials to enhance marketing campaigns , with the key agenda being reversal of travel advisories.