Raila Odinga has asked Nairobi's political aspirants to ensure they retain posts won in 2013 before spreading their wings to other areas.The ODM leader told a meeting of aspirants in Nairobi on Tuesday that Jubilee Party cannot win any seat in the city in the August 8 election."Since we won the governor seat, we must capitalise on that and get as many others as possible," he said at Nyayo Stadium.The party's Nairobi chairman, George Aladwa, said they will support Governor Evans Kidero and go for the presidency, woman representative, senator, MP and MCA seats.More on this: ODM to back Kidero, eyeing majority seats in Nairobi assemblyRaila asked the hopefuls to avoid any circumstances that could lead to the loss of the six seats.He told to steer clear of internal conflict as elements of disunity will give their rivals undue advantage at election time."We will not let anyone split the party. I call upon all of us to allow everyone to express their right as members of ODM. It is only through peace that we will achieve this," he said.In areas that are Jubilee strongholds - Roysambu, Starehe and Kasarani - the ODM leader asked the aspirants to work smart."We cannot win seats there. So we need to be smart. Instead of taking people there, take them to swing areas like Makadara, Embakasi and our other strongholds," he said.Raila told city residents to elect leaders based on the development agenda, not along ethnic lines."I was an MP for several years in this city. We should not let leaders who were elected in their villages come and dictate our future," he said.The opposition chief said they can only be assured of a win this time round if the party registers more voters in its strongholds before the February 14 deadline.He assured the members that the primaries will be free and fair.Read: No mass rallies but mass voter listing in next 30 days, Raila says at BomasAlso read: ODM set tough nomination rules ahead of Thursday deadlineAladwa allayed fears that there were aspirants who have been given direct nominations for the seats."Raila is here to assure all of us that nobody has been given a certificate. There have been concerns that some sitting MPs and MCAs have certificate in their pockets," he said.Aladwa added that all candidates will be vetted before they are allowed to contest the seats during the nominations tentatively slated for February."We don't want to elect people who will start abusing Raila as soon as they win elections like we have seen in the past," Aladwa said. Former Makadara MP Reuben Ndolo asked the aspirants to embark on a door-to-door campaigns for their supporters to be listed as voters. "Let's prepare to go every house and every family to get new people to register. This time it is not a joke," he said.Langata MP Joash Olum echoed Ndolo's sentiments, saying the election will be "a matter of life and death"."This our last stab at the presidency. So, let's mobilise our people so that our leader can go to State House," he said.Also read: ODM dismisses poll placing Uhuru as likely winner of August election