Voting is a civic right for all Kenyans. Unfortunately, some Kenyans take this constitutional right for granted. Even though voting is a choice, you must be registered by the IEBC to qualify to cast your ballot.The IEBC plans to add six million new voters to the already registered 14 million. This means that if the electoral commission achieves its target, the number of registered voters might be more than 20 million this year. This milestone will show the aggressive efforts by both the electoral agency, various political parties and civic organisations were a success. The baseline is that if you want to have your say, you must register as a voter. It is as simple as it sounds. Voting gives you a say on national and issues that affect you as a Kenyan. Politics is about everything that affects citizens from health and education to infrastructure and the economy. Your voice should be through voting for a representative to help in pushing for provision of such services and development.Kenyans can now enjoy the fruits of devolution as a result of voting for the 2010 Constitution. Almost needless to say, the same Constitution requires voters be registered by the electoral commission.Where would our democracy be if we didn&rsquo;t care about our politics? When politicians make policy decisions, they represent the concerns of their constituents. When you register and cast your vote, that is how your voice is heard. The vital decisions affecting all our lives are taken by MPs and other elected leaders through legislation and Budget making. Voting is, therefore, the most profound way to ensure policymakers take notice of you and your needs.The mass voter registration has already opened a battle ground for all the 60 registered political parties as they try to outsmart each other ahead of the August 8 general election. The outcome of this poll will be determined by your vote. Should you register, not even a politician will take you for granted, unless you sell that vote by accepting to be bribed. If you are a student away from home and have not registered, look for a centre that you will be comfortable with at the time of voting. Many don&rsquo;t know they are eligible to register as voters. As long as one has an ID, whether in high school or college, you can register as a voter at any location of your choice. Don&rsquo;t say that because this is not your home area, then there is no need to register. Doesn&rsquo;t it feel good voting for the first time? Should you be locked out of the February 14 deadline, then you will have no voice until the 2022 election.Elections and governance are inseparable. It is appalling that some eligible voters say they can&rsquo;t register because they don&rsquo;t want to be involved in politics. Don&rsquo;t stand by and let other people make a decision for you. You still have to pay taxes even if you don&rsquo;t vote. Your vote is your future and you have to protect it as a right. Doing so, your voice will be loud enough to be heard by everyone. Each of us has a single vote and the ballot gives us all an equal amount of voting power. Use it as a weapon to hold elected leaders accountable.The value of a voter&rsquo;s card is unmatchable. That is why across the world, people have died fighting for the right to have their voice heard: The right to vote. In South Africa, black people were not able to vote until 1994 at the end of Apartheid. But in Kenya, we have been enjoying this right since Independence. Take advantage of our democratic space and register as a voter. When we register as voters, we will elect good leaders and fire non-performing ones.Joshua Ngala is the communications officer, Registrar of Political Parties