Elite athletes have welcomed the new medical regulations and guidelines announced by Athletics Kenya last week. In an interview, the athletes said this was the way to go if they are to curb doping in the country. Kenya Doctors Network was established by Athletics Kenya with advice from International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) to take care of top level runners and limit bad practices and doping promotion behaviour by some Kenyan health professionals. Speaking during a seminar yesterday in Eldoret, Olympics marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge said the move was a step in the right direction as it will help the athletes focus and make the right decisions. &ldquo;Personally, I am very happy because I know this will help us in the fighting doping. For many years, there has been no guidelines for athletes and that is the reason why we are still battling the menace,&rdquo; said Kipchoge. He said there is no short cut to success and it is either you train hard and win easy or forget about athletics all together. &ldquo;Let us train hard and compete clean. Kenya is an athletics powerhouse and we don&rsquo;t need to be driven by drugs,&rdquo; he added.Two-time world marathon champion Edna Kiplagat said the new guidelines will help athletes adhere to the rules and focus better. She said many have fallen victims of buying drugs over the counter to treat simple ailments like headache but with such a network, they will be able to get advice before hand. &ldquo;The whole world is watching us and the latest move by AK is a major milestone. We have signed the medical regulations and they are good for Kenya,&rdquo; she said.Another top marathoner Mary Keitany welcomed the regulations but noted that gender balance should have been considered in the formation of KDN.&ldquo;The network is composed of six professional doctors&mdash; five men and one lady.&rdquo;&ldquo;There are issues women athletes would want to be addressed by the female colleague and I think it would have been good if another female doctor was added on the list. Otherwise, I am cool with the regulations,&rdquo; she noted. AK president Jack Tuwei said Kenya was placed on the watch-list because the country did not have strong programmes to fight doping despite the availability of the laws and policies passed by the parliament.&ldquo;We must show that we are doing something in the fight against doping and our target is to compete in any event without being doubted,&rdquo; he said.