Phillip Murgor aggressively tried to fight corruption when he served as the Director of Public Prosecutions.Murgor was unceremoniously ejected from the office after, in his own words, insisted on bringing the masterminds of Anglo Leasing scandal to account.&ldquo;It was a celebration galore for the corruption cartels when I was sacked,&rdquo; Murgor, the latest entrant in the 2017 Presidential race, says.But there are concerns that Murgor is a loose cannon, who used his position as DPP to pursue personal vendetta against individuals he didn&rsquo;t like. In 2004, the ordered for the exhumation of Friedrich Wilhelm Kohlwes, a 41-year-old German, in what was at that time considered as personal war against Pattni.The German had worked as Pattni&rsquo;s security guard. But was killed mysteriously in 1994 and buried in Tigoni, Kiambu county.Murgor had Pattni dragged from the Goldenberg Inquiry and charged with murder of the German. Pattni was acquitted, however.Critics interpreted this as the then DPP&rsquo;s audacity to use his position to settle personal scores.&ldquo;That is a smokescreen and misinformation. I don&rsquo;t know Pattni and there is nothing we could disagree about,&rdquo; he explains.Going back to the case, Murgor says complaint on the death of the German was officially brought to his attention.&ldquo;There was nothing personal. As the DPP if somebody come with information you order for investigations,&rdquo; he states as a matter of fact. &ldquo;Prosecutors go by evidence. A complaint was lodged, witnesses recorded statements, evidence pointed in a certain direction. As the DPP I had to act. Maybe I came before my time but I have no regrets of what I did at that time.&rdquo;It is from this experience that has Murgor compelled to make a return into public life with a strong desire to construct a united Kenya with an agenda that sales beyond tribe.&ldquo;I have decided to re-enter the public life out of realization that corruption is destroying our country,&rdquo; he says of his presidential bid.The lawyer rejects claims that his candidacy is meant to spite Deputy President William Ruto and disrupt he (Ruto&rsquo;s) stranglehold in the Rift Valley.&ldquo;I am disruptive in so many ways,&rdquo; he charges. &ldquo;I want to destroy the status quo of descendants who think they are entitled to leadership no matter their interest, education or moral standing.&rdquo;******1961: Born in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet District.1968: Started formal education at Victoria Primary School (Kisumu) and later Hill School (Eldoret) where he did his CPE in 1974.1975: Admitted to Lenana High School for his O level education. He did his KCE in 1978 and was readmitted to the same school for his A level in 1979. In 1980 he sat for his KACE.1981: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Bachelor&rsquo;s degree in Law in 1985. The same year he enrolled for his post-graduate Diploma in Law at the Kenya School of Law. He interned at Hamilton Harrison and Mathews1988: Office of the Attorney General, State Counsel served in Kisumu and Nairobi until 1992.1992: Resigned from Public service and joined his wife in managing Murgor and Murgor Co Advocates.2003: Appointed the Director of Public Prosecutions until 2005 when he was sacked.2009: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Masters of laws degree in International Trade and Investments Law in 2011.****2013: &ldquo;On the day I was fired, I had a lunch meeting with Assistant Minister Mirugi Kariuki and had requested him to go and brief President Kibaki about interference in the case. Later, he told me when he reached State House, the president was ill and he met a powerful State House operative who became furious. It was then that a plot to sack me was hatched. A senior official said: Let us sack him and explain later. We will tell the President we acted in your best interest. The same generals who took pride in my battle with crime were now vilifying me and advocating for my removal on the grounds that I was not a team player. I was disillusioned.&rdquo;2016: &ldquo;I am coming back when the time is right; when there is a toxic mix of tribe and corruption. Brand Kenya is one of the most corrupt countries in the world.&rdquo;