Four pupils from the Bridge International Academies have received sponsorship to go to the US this year for secondary education. Each pupil will benefit from a scholarship of about Sh4.9 million. The four are Joyce Katana from Kwale, Peace Kiponda from Kilifi, Melving Kanaiza of Nairobi and Vitalis Wekesa from Uasin Gishu. They will join another four who went to the US last year, bringing the total to eight.Joyce lives with her mother, father, and two young siblings. She joined Bridge in Class 7, and prior to that had moved around between both public and private schools.BATTLED KIDNEY INFECTIONJoyce missed out on many lessons in Class 7 due to a recurring kidney infection. She has had to work incredibly hard to catch up with her classmates, and has become a top student in Class 8 as a result of her hard work. Her favorite subject is maths.She gets to her academy early to focus on extra math practice, saying &ldquo;I love my morning preps. Here I get to see where I&rsquo;m weak because my mind is very fresh.&rdquo;She hopes her focus on maths will help her to one day attain her goal of becoming a pilot. Joyce says: &ldquo;I want to be a pilot to prove that ladies can be pilots, too.&rdquo; Joyce&rsquo;s post-primary school goal is to study abroad for secondary school.She is always looking for opportunities to expand her mind, and thinks the chance to study in a different country would put her on the right path for success in life.She is working hard to attain that goal.Joyce is a hardworking and dedicated pupil. Any spare time she has is spent revising her weak subjects.She says, &ldquo;My mum is my best friend because she gives me good advice and encourages me to work hard. This brings out the best in me. In my spare time I read storybooks and revise for my exams. I like challenges.&rdquo;SLUM-UPGRADING DESIREKilifi-born Peace currently lives in Mombasa with his mother, father, and three younger brothers. His mother is a community worker involved with women&rsquo;s issues, and his father is a pastor.Peace and all his siblings attend Bridge International Academies. Even though a Bridge education (at about Sh7,200 per year) is far more affordable than education at comparable private schools (most costing around Sh60,000 per year) Peace understands the sacrifices his parents are making.&ldquo;It is sometimes tough for my parents to afford for us all to go to school,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;But they are happy we are learning, and proud we are all doing so well.&rdquo; Peace does not take his education for granted and works exceedingly hard in school. He&rsquo;s gone from being an average student who didn&rsquo;t really like school, to a top-performing student who loves learning. &ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t believe when I got my first midterm exam back,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;I got a 380!&rdquo; For such a young man, Peace has remarkable ambition and a clear focus for the future. He is concerned about the future of his country, and believes he can help his fellow Kenyans by pursuing study and a career in engineering. &ldquo;I want to build cars that Kenya can export. I want to innovate new electric cars,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;I want to design good houses for people in the slums to keep out diseases.&rdquo; Peace knows that if he is to reach these lofty goals, education is critical. He dreams of attending secondary school and university in the US.However, he&rsquo;s adamant about the importance of returning home. &ldquo;It hurts my heart,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;when engineers get training abroad and don&rsquo;t come back to help Kenya.&rdquo;