The attention of the Communications Authority of Kenya is drawn to the commentary on page 19 of the Star newspaper headlined, CA REPORT: A COVERT OPERATION authored by Kibisu Kabatesi. The said article was published on December 29, 2016.While the Authority appreciates and acknowledges the right of freedom of expression as enshrined in the Constitution, we also support informed public debate, particularly on matters that are of national concern. The Authority takes exception to the allegation that the Director General, Francis Wangusi, &ldquo;engineered a near-information blackout in a mitigated tiff between the government and the media on the migration to the digital platform.&rdquo; We wish to note that June 17, 2015 was the global deadline for analogue switch-off as per the International Telecommunication Union Geneva 2006 Agreement (GE06 ), to which Kenya is a signatory. This brought to an end, the analogue broadcasting era and created space for many more television broadcasters who now enable Kenyans to access a variety of content. It is therefore erroneous for the writer to purport that this was a selfish move targeting the media. The GE06 Agreement came into force on June 17, 2007 while the transition period was from June 17, 2006 to June 17, 2015, during which the existing analogue assignments were to be protected. Thereafter, the analogue frequencies were cancelled by the ITU and ceased usage in the countries that were party to the Agreement. The process of digital migration in Kenya begun in December 2009 and hence there was no delay, and neither was it &lsquo;slow thinking on his part&rsquo; as the article insinuates.In the same commentary, the author alleges that the release of the National Information Communications Technology Access Gap Study is a deliberate ambush and a ruse by CA to justify why Kenyans cannot use the electronic system during the 2017 polls.The 2016 ICT Access Gap Study, launched in November 2015 and completed in June 2016, is the third one to be conducted by the Authority. The first one was carried out in 2004, while the second one was carried out in 2010. The studies undertaken by the Authority over the years have been instrumental in advising on regulatory interventions, and providing an indication of the financial resources required to narrow the access gaps. It is also common knowledge that the dynamism of the ICT landscape and passage of time require more current data to effectively inform the activities geared towards universal access to communications services.The 2016 ICT Access Gap study was particularly key to informing and guiding the utilisation of the Universal Service Fund. The scope of the study included an assessment of the communication gaps at the sublocation level, development of an interactive online portal for the gaps indicating interventions by the Fund and determination of the cost of rolling out service, including the requisite subsidies. The kitty is a contributory fund from 0.5 per cent of the operators&rsquo; annual gross revenue.This information is in the public domain and can be verified from the operators, thus the fear that CA&rsquo;s Access Gap Study could be a product of covert legitimisation or illegalities and inadequacies in forced amendments is not only far-fetched but also lacks any credibility.The Authority wishes to assure Kenyans that it conducts its affairs professionally as guided by the law. CA is a regulator independent of government, political or commercial interests in exercise of its powers and in the performance of its functions.The Authority, therefore, requests in addition to publishing this rejoinder in the Star newspaper to reflect the correct position and information on the subject matter, our partners in the industry, the journalists, should counter-check or verify facts with us, whenever in doubt, so as to avoid information that can mislead the public.