A Thika court has remanded for five days five suspects accused of kidnapping a four-year-old boy, pending conclusion of investigations.The five appeared before Thika principal magistrate B.N Ireri on Thursday but were not required to take plea. Sh2.2 million ransomThey are accused of kidnapping Kelson Kimani on Friday last week and the abductors demanded Sh2.2 million ransom. Flying Squad and Special Crime Unit officers rescued the boy in Kasarani as three kidnappers were moving him from Ruaka to Mwiki.Kelson was reunited him with his parents Catherine Nyambura and Wambugu Kimani.The five suspects are Jacinta Mburu, Patrick Themba, Faith Kamwaro, Monica Mululu and John Ndung&rsquo;u.Earlier reports said seven suspects had been arrested over the kidnapping. Four men were arrested earlier in the week. Two women and a taxi driver were apprehended on Tuesday during the rescue. Two of the suspects were taken to court earlier in the week.Among the suspects is a neighbour to the Kimanis, who is believed to be the mastermind.Investigating officer Eric Gitonga told the court that four men stormed the boy&rsquo;s home in Thika&rsquo;s Section 9 Estate on January 6 and robbed his mother Nyambura of Sh300,000 and kidnapped the child.During the rescue on Tuesday, the five were arrested.Search on for accomplicesGitonga said police are looking for the suspects&rsquo; accomplices and the firearms used to commit the crime. He said they also need time to analyse the suspects&rsquo; mobile phone records.The case will be mentioned on January 20.After his rescue on Tuesday, Kelson&rsquo;s parents could not hold back their tears. &ldquo;Today [Tuesday] we were almost losing hope. The suspects called us today in the afternoon and told us our efforts to use social media and mainstream media to find our son were all in vain. They sent us a photo of our son crying after they beat him,&rdquo; Nyambura said.They did not part with any money as they could not raise the ransom.Kiambu police commander Adiel Nyange said three suspects are at large. &ldquo;Luckily we have their identities and contacts. We will leave no stone unturned until we bring them to book,&rdquo; he said.