The Senate in a special sitting on December 28 pushed the debate on the contentious Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2016 to tomorrow to allow the Senate Legal Affairs Committee led by Busia Senator Amos Wako to conduct public hearings. The Committee was directed to commence public hearings immediately after some senators cited lack of public participation in the proposed changes. In a congenial bipartisan session in which all Senators were permitted to freely contribute and professionally steered by Speaker Ekwee Ethuro and Majority leader Senator Kithure Kindiki, the Senate showed exemplary leadership.That both men stood firm against the unusual police presence and demanded their immediate withdrawal placated many members. They gave Kenyans a rare dose of sobriety, maturity and patriotism that is often lacking in our political scene. The sense of decorum and camaraderie displayed by members of the Upper House during debate was a breath of fresh air. Efforts by Senate Minority leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Senator Mike Sonko to poison the air with caustic toxic remarks were swiftly and expertly thwarted by the Speaker.Kenyans couldn&rsquo;t help comparing and contrasting the way the Senate conducts its business and that of the National Assembly. The differences couldn&rsquo;t be further apart and indeed are akin to night and day. The National Assembly has a bunch of violent, intemperate, cantankerous members, who more often than not use unprintable language that would embarrass seasoned red light district hookers. One female legislator in a deplorably bizarre incident was nearly forcibly undressed within the precincts of the august House. Fistfights have become common.If allegations that MPs attended the last session armed to the teeth are true, then it is just a matter of time before we experience a serious injury or, God-forbid, a fatality. Allegations of corruption among parliamentarians and House committees are now well known. At least two parliamentary committees charged or mandated with over-sighting corruption &mdash; the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Investments Committee &mdash; have themselves been accused of corruption. That institutions created to monitor, check, eradicate and prosecute corruption are themselves mired in graft is a tragedy of monumental proportions.The impartiality of both the Senate speaker and the leader of Majority on the other hand are difficult to ignore or fault. The two are undoubtedly wise men with a sense of discernment who do not allow partiality, emotion or personal preferences to cloud their judgement/ approach to issues. They have made every effort to ensure that the Senate projects an image of justice, impartiality, equity and fair play. The Senate or its committees have not been named in even a single corruption scandal. It is little wonder that their members have faith and in trust their leadership. The same unfortunately cannot be said of the National Assembly. Double standards are the order of the day. There have been frequent complaints regarding partiality, inequity, open favouritism and lack of fair play. As a consequence some members have turned to unorthodox and often obnoxious means to express their displeasure. If there were any doubts or fears regarding the inclusion or existence of the Senate in the Constitution, they have now been dispelled. The Upper House has acquitted itself admirably!Kenyans now know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the Senate is best placed to steer this country away from anarchy and towards peace. Everything, as they say, turns on leadership and those charged with the stewardship of the Senate have been equal to the task. The contentious issue of the Election Laws (Amendment) Act 2016 may not have been formally resolved, but many Kenyans now know it is in the able and capable hands of the Senate. The Senate has restored hope. There is now light at the end of the tunnel.