Musician, designer, producer and writerI am a free soul born with art in the bones. I have always been passionate about arts. I found myself engaging in all forms, especially music, from a young age.I was raised in Mombasa in a ghetto called Magongo. Most people born here are talented in arts and my seniors helped propel my creativity to greater heights.Now I&rsquo;m grateful my name rings bells in people&rsquo;s minds whenever hip hop is mentioned.5AMI am always up by 5am, when I work out for an hour. I then freshen up and have a cup of coffee. Coffee is great as it helps me kickstart the day with 100 per cent energy. I then report to my work station in my home office to start the day. I network on social media, make proposals, book appointments and interviews, research and design posters at the work station as I listen to soft music. I also have a habit of reading books. Someone once said that If you want to hide a treasure from a black man, hide it in a book. This is due to the fact that most people have a poor reading culture, yet most of these fine things, for instance, knowledge, are found in books.11AMI attend band rehearsals at Swahili Jazz band workshop. I rehearse my music with the band and introduce new music for instrumentalists to learn and master. This takes almost three hours then I break for lunch. 2PMI always have a late lunch then hit the studio at around 3pm. Shaash international is my studio. Here, I sort out music, record and mentor some of my artists. When not in the studio, I am supervising production of Free Soul clothing, which is a clothing line I own. I specialise in making T-shirts and also printing them, hoodies and snoodies and also I am into kids&rsquo; clothing.7PM onwardsI am either attending events or I&rsquo;m back home relaxing with my family, whom I dearly cherish.SATURDAYSAs an event organiser, weekends are usually busy. I&rsquo;m usually either performing, emceeing or doing stage management. When free, I love playing play station games and linking up with friends. Travelling is also a hobby, so I find myself travelling at times. SUNDAYSSundays are made up of family time and I also take the opportunity to contemplate on what I have accomplished and also where I am headed.