The iconic hill city of Edinburg is the setting for a story about immigrants that stands apart. The Maestro, the Magistrate and the Mathematician, by Zimbabwean author Tendai Huchu, is an unconventional story of three very disimilar Africans living in Scotland and trying to rebuild their lives. The Magistrate was a respected judge in Zimbawe who is ashamed about his fall from grace and distressed at being unable to find a job in Scotland. He does the housework, spends long hours walking in the city and listening to Zimbabwean music while his wife work works nights, putting further strain on their tense marriage. He loves to reminisce about Zimbabwe&rsquo;s wide open spaces and their former housemaid, but eventually he has to take on a caregiver job at a retirement home, which smells of incontinence. The Maestro is a recluse who suffers an unquenchable longing for his country and family. He retreats further into gloom when he quits his job of pushing supermarket carts, burns his all books and breaks off communication with everybody. The contents of the brown envelope on his mantelpiece that he cannot bring himself to mail arouses intense curiosity.Farai, the youthful PhD student from a wealthy family, prefers the easy life and partying to books. He shares a flat with a guy called Scott who pines for his ex-girlfriend, a fellow Zimbabwean called Brian who works as a nurse, and a pet rabbit. Each week Farai has a coffee shop rendezvous with an old man whose name he doesn&rsquo;t know, yet he is still the most well-balanced of the three title characters.The backstories of each man are revealed through flashbacks that give us a good sense of the political instability and social decline in Zimbabwe that precipitated their exit. As you persevere through the prolonged descriptions of the Edinburgh&rsquo;s architecture, you get drawn into the lives of these three men, whose stories become interlinked into a fateful conclusion. However, for a long time it does not seem as though the various storylines are leading anywhere in common. The book is an intricate review of the African diaspora, the loss of community and all that is familiar, and the battle to reinvent oneself in foreign country. It is told with enough dry humour to keep the story from getting too dreary and with sufficient intrigue to stop it from being a stereotypical refugee tale. Huchu&rsquo;s descriptions are so vivid that you can literally smell the odours and imagine travelling through various settings of Edinburgh. And the end was very unpredictable. Tendai Huchu, 34, was born and raised in Zimbabwe, and lives in Scotland, where he is a podiatrist by profession. He achieved global acclaim with his first novel, The Hairdresser of Harare, which was shortlisted for the 2014 Caine Prize for African Writing.