A fiery gubernatorial aspirant from the Coast is a man closely being watched by his political coalition. Reason? He is said to be secretly flirting with the State while laying plans for an unprecedented onslaught on his opponent, the incumbent. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man met President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured)at State House, Mombasa, on Monday. It&rsquo;s not however clear what their discussions centered on, although the alleged meeting has heightened speculation about his political game plan. Is a high profile defection in the offing? Those closely monitoring the politician claim he has long stopped demanding accountability at the national level and has retreated with a vengeance into the devolved unit. His backers however say taxpayers&rsquo; money must be guarded irrespective of the level of governance and the money involved. JUST why did former Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim dump ODM leader Raila Odinga for Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as he eyes the Garissa Town parliamentary seat held by vocal National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale? Those in the know say Maalim, who had sent jitters across the political landscape after he declared his intention to unseat Duale, failed to hit the ground running after the momentum quickly fizzled out. He had been touted as the best man to take on Duale - a fierce defender of the Jubilee administration, but his bid might have ran into headwinds, capsizing midstream ahead of the August 8 polls. Maalim is said to have found the ground non-receptive to ODM, forcing him to take a strategic defection into Wiper, knowing it would not be no walk in the park to defeat Duale who has since camped in the constituency literally conducting door-to-door campaigns. Whether Maalim is living up to the promise of unseating Duale, perhaps Cord&rsquo;s biggest political headache, is a matter that will be brought to the fore in the fullness of time. KISII Governor James Ongwae must be a worried man, given it&rsquo;s only seven months to the August 8 General Election. While the duel is billed to be a two-horse race pitting him against Jubilee&rsquo;s Senator Chris Obure, a different issue must be preoccupying his mind. The puzzle is how to deal with members of his Cabinet and senior county staff eyeing elective seats. Also to be affected are subcounty and ward administrators salivating for political seats. The officers have been accused of using their influential positions and county resources to intimidate rivals. Some are driven home in county vehicles every Friday for campaigns, unashamedly using public resources. County Secretary Johnston Ndege has already issued a notice for the officers to quit service in what will be a big relief to their opponents.