She may be in the middle of her gap year, but Malia Obama appeared to be on internship duty at the Sundance Film Festival on Tuesday.After spending the weekend in Palm Springs with her family, Malia jetted off to Park City, Utah to catch screenings at one of the biggest film festivals.Malia just landed an internship with producer Harvey Weinstein, who was also at the festival. The 18-year-old was first spotted having dinner in Park City on Sunday. She was then spotted at a screening for the film Beach Rats, a drama about a Brooklyn teen who begins exploring his sexuality with older men, on Tuesday. One source heard Malia tell a Sundance staffer "it was interesting", but it remains unclear if she was talking about the film, according to The Wrap. Although she may no longer be a first daughter, Malia's presence at the festival definitely didn't go unnoticed. "You know it's going to be a good screening when Malia Obama comes in," Hannah Hembree wrote on Twitter Monday.Talent manager Scott Fisher first spotted the teen eating out on Sunday night."The only celeb spotting at Sundance that matters to me: Malia Obama having dinner a few tables down," he tweeted. "Weinstein internship paying off."Director and writer Brett Wagner snuck a photo of Malia that he posted on Instagram with the caption: "Best Sundance sighting ever". The photo shows Malia, dressed in a brown jacket, looking down at her friend's phone screen. Before she made her way to Sundance, Malia spent the weekend with her parents and younger sister Sasha in Palm Springs. The former First Family jetted off to California after Donald Trump's inauguration on Friday afternoon, where they stayed at the mansion of Obama's Ambassador to Spain and his husband. On Sunday Malia took off for Utah, Sasha took off presumably for DC, where she ws back to school Monday, and their parents boarded Richard Branson's private jet Monday for a flight to the Caribbean island of Tortola and a boat to the billionaire's private island Necker. It remains unknown how long Malia's internship with Weinstein will last, but she is planning to attend Harvard University in the fall. Malia deferred her enrollment for a year, spending three months on a secret trip through South America. The trip coincided with the final weeks of the election, and Malia was reportedly out for pizza in the town of Tiquipaya the night that Donald Trump clinched the presidency. After seeing a new side of the globe, Malia is clearly ready to learn more about a different world - that of film and television.