Guatemala on Wednesday arrested the brother of the country's president, who swept to victory with an anti-graft campaign, and ordered the leader's son be detained for their alleged involvement in corruption. Jimmy Morales was elected president in 2015 pledging to clean up Guatemalan politics after riding a wave of public anger over a corruption scandal that led to the arrest and trial of his predecessor, retired General Otto Perez. The alleged corruption in Morales' family represents a major blow to the former comedian's credibility in a country roiled by years of armed conflict and political corruption. Last September, a judge barred Samuel "Sammy" Morales, an older brother and a close adviser to the president, and Jose Manuel Morales, one of his four sons, from leaving the country over suspicious payments linked to the mother of Jose Manuel's then-girlfriend in 2013. On Wednesday, Guatemala's Attorney General Thelma Aldana said Sammy Morales had been arrested. "In relation to the son of the president, we sent him a letter to present himself because he lives in the presidential residence, and we aren't able to go in there," Aldana said on local radio. She added that the president had "not interfered once" during the investigation into his brother and his son, who studies in the United States and returned to Guatemala to answer questions in the case. After his arrest, Sammy Morales told reporters he was willing to answer any questions. "This doesn't affect me because it shows nobody is above the law," he said. The alleged corruption arose when the mother of Jose Manuel's then-girlfriend agreed to supply Christmas hampers to officials at the national property registry, which is being investigated for suspected graft, according to testimony given during a public hearing about the registry. Guatemala's general property registry documents land and property ownership across the country. The woman sent the registry a bill for 90,000 quetzal ($11,936) made out in the name of a local restaurant for 564 breakfasts, not Christmas hampers, according to the attorney general. The breakfasts were not delivered, according to statements given by a witness during the public hearing. Sammy Morales, the president's brother, said at the time he had helped obtain the bill from the restaurant as "a favor" to his nephew, but denied it was fraudulent. It was not clear what happened to the Christmas hampers or why the woman submitted the bill through the restaurant.The government has not referred to the transaction as bribes and has not said what they were for.