A woman yesterday sued seeking to stop the burial of politician Mark Too.In an urgent application, Fatuma Hassan filed the case on behalf of her 16-year-old son, demanding the boy&rsquo;s school fees be paid from Too&rsquo;s estate. She wants the teen to be allowed to participate in his father&rsquo;s funeral and burial arrangements.In court documents, Hassan says Too&rsquo;s wives Sophie and Mary have deliberately excluded her son from the funeral arrangements and their conduct is not in her son&rsquo;s best interest.Sophie and Mary are Too&rsquo;s only known and recognised widows.Teenage sonHassan claims the boy is Too&rsquo;s biological son and was scheduled to report back to school yesterday yet no communication has been made regarding the payment of his school fees. &ldquo;The academic future of my son is now clouded by uncertainty,&rdquo; she says.According to court documents, Hassan was involved with Too in 1999 when she separated from her husband and she gave birth to her son in 2000.DNA results confirm that Too is the child&rsquo;s biological father, she says.She later filed a case for Too to take up his parental responsibilities. Too has been paying for the boy&rsquo;s upkeep and school fees, Hassan says.The Children&rsquo;s Court on April 5, 2011, ordered Too to pay Sh35,000 for the maintenance of the child on or before the 10th of every month starting April 2011. He was also directed to pay the school fees and related expenses.High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule directed the parties to appear in court tomorrow for an inter partes hearing.Assassination claimsAt the same time, lawyer Simon Lilan has claimed there were attempts on the life of Too&rsquo;s first wife Mary. Lilan claims Too was assassinated because of politics and his vast wealth, especially the more than 25,000 acres of land he owns. The lawyer dismissed results of a post-mortem that indicated that Too died of heart complications. He said an independent probe should be established to find the cause of the death. Lilan is Too&rsquo;s relative and also one of his lawyers. He said yesterday that he visited the home immediately after Too died and found Mary with breathing problems.In Eldoret, family spokesman and chairman of the burial committee Jacob Yego and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi asked Lilan to stop frustrating the family when the results of the postmortem have revealed the cause of death.Too&rsquo;s family, including his brothers, have said they are satisfied with the results of the postmortem done at the Lee Funeral Home by chief government pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor.&ldquo;Let him report to the police if he has information that will prove what he is claiming,&rdquo; Sudi said.Lilan said he would write to DPP Keriako Tobiko to institute an independent probe into Too&rsquo;s death.&ldquo;I know what I&rsquo;m saying and you can identify a killer when you look at one. With time, the truth will come out. Some of Too&rsquo;s property has already been transferred but we will follow up to ensure that it&rsquo;s safe,&rdquo; he said.Lilan claimed that all of Too&rsquo;s property belongs to his first wife though he admitted he was not aware if the politician left a will.