President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are in a silent battle for the control of Kisii. The President is reportedly fronting Senator Chris Obure to run for governor on the JP ticket, while Ruto has picked Deputy Governor Joash Maangi as to wrest the seat from Governor James Ongwae. The President has strong ties with veteran politician Simeon Nyachae and has approved his son, former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae, to run for senator. This is an elaborate plot to use the old man&rsquo;s networks to penetrate the county. But Ruto, who is eyeing the presidency in 2022, is keen to groom Maangi as his point man. The forthcoming Jubilee Party primaries will be an opportunity for Uhuru and Ruto to flex text their political muscle in the county. **** Is there a romantic relationship between a senior JP leader and a Principal Secretary? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that there are signals the two, both married and at the helm of government, are meeting secretly. The rumours peaked during the holiday season, when they camped at a luxury tourist destination. Their regular meetings are, however, disguised as government business. The brazen affair has left top government officials in awe of how bold public servants can get.***** A senior JP operative from DP William Ruto&rsquo;s office is worried Last week he was blasted by the DP for allegedly leaking crucial information to his political adversaries. The Rift Valley man was accused of flirting with the DP&rsquo;s political enemies and sharing top secrets. An insider said the DP gave the operative a dressing down in his office. This has complicated the operative&rsquo;s bid for MP on the Jubilee ticket. It&rsquo;s believed that the once blue-eyed boy, now a betrayer, was eavesdropping on conversations and leaking them to some Kanu members. He is said to have divulged sensitive intelligence that has strengthened the onslaught on JP in the Rift Valley. The DP was angered after his close allies informed him the operative frequently spoke to a Rift Valley power broker linked to Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto.***** That Cord leader Raila Odinga has a platonic relationship with incumbent governors is no secret. But he has of late developed unprecedentedly warm ties with governors, raising concerns among their rivals that they may get a raw deal. One ODM hopeful from Migori county is worried that despite the massive resources he has invested in his campaigns, the primaries could have been predetermined in favour of the incumbent. He was overhead telling an MP outside Parliament Buildings that he is contemplating switching to a friendly party.