More than 100 Jubilee members and officials, led by former TNA secretary general Onyango Oloo, have defected to ODM.The members drawn from eight counties accused Jubilee of betrayal and sidelining them after affiliates merged into the Jubilee Party. Oloo yesterday said his integrity and ideologies do not allow him to continue working with JP. He said the promises made to members and Kenyans have not been fulfilled, terming this a betrayal.Former Nyanza TNA regional coordinator Midigo Juma and former chairmen Desmond Shiraka (Kakamega), Titus Achar (Kisumu), Daniel Chebi (Baringo) and Meshack Oswago (Migori) were among the defectors. Oloo said they have decided wisely to join ODM under Cord to form the next government. &ldquo;We are looking for a home that will liberate Kenyans from the continued suffering and intimidation,&rdquo; he said.Oloo said more defectors will be witnessed across the country from Jubilee to ODM. He said the Raila Odinga-led party has the capacity to rescue Kenyans from political conmanship. &ldquo;We have 28 counties whose former TNA officials and Jubilee members have expressed their interest to join ODM. I can tell for sure that all will be in our new home,&rdquo; Oloo said.He said he has the &lsquo;keys&rdquo; to the counties where former TNA officials are disappointed and all will not hesitate to work with Raila. &ldquo;Today is just a rehearsal and more are yet to be seen. I&rsquo;m the one who had the TNA structures and strategies. We&rsquo;re going to make big history in the country,&rdquo; Oloo said.He said he will work day and night to send Raila to State House on August 8. Oloo said he will not rest until he marshals 28 counties, which are behind him, to rescue Kenyans from bad governance and corruption. &ldquo;I take responsibility as I led you to TNA. Every action has got consequences and we&rsquo;re ready to pay for the consequence. In the wild, there are animals that hunt and there are those who eat what others have hunted,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The hyenas that were not there have come and taken over everything from us. We have the skills and we&rsquo;re going to hunt again and bring back that animal.&rdquo;Oloo said the URP brigade took control of JP, alienating President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s people, the same way it had happened in government. &ldquo;You can do business with a thief or a witch and still come out clean. But the moment you marry a thief or a witch, then you become one.&rdquo;