Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 champions Swamibapa return to Peponi School this weekend hoping to avenge their embarrassing loss to Stray Lions at the same venue last September.Swamibapa were bowled out for 129 half-way through their inning before recording their first embarrassing loss to Stray Lions. Weeks later, Stray Lions made a repeat performance by handing Swamis another beating at their backyard to claim the league title.However, hosts will also be on a revenge mission in the same event, having lost to Swamis in semis last year. Lions needed to win the match to qualify for their first final ticket but suffered humiliating defeat against Swamis in a match that witnessed ugly incidents from fans.The match promises fireworks though the hosts will be without some of their key players.Wilkin Mota, who was the &lsquo;Man of the Match&rsquo; in the embarrassing loss in September when he claimed four wickets has since decamped to India and so has batsman Tanmay Mishra. Another top order batsman Manoj Sai is also away playing in a Australian League.Indian all-rounder Yusuf Pathan, who was also dropped for the match is also not with the team, alongside opening bowler AG Praveen.Stray Lions have since drafted Maurice Odumbe in their side and he has played key role to their current success. Neil Narvekar, Ugandan Charles Waiswa and Roger Mukasa have also been drafted into the team and are expected to make the difference.Stray Lions have won all their three matches played so far, thanks to Ugandan import Mukasa, who has been outstanding with the bat. Despite bouncing back from Day One loss to Sikh Union, Swamibapa have equally been on a roll, winning their last two matches. While Stray Lions could boost of a strong batting line up, Swamibapa will bank on their bowling strength to stop the hosts.Before hosting Swamibapa on Sunday, Stray Lion will be at Ruaraka today to play the home team, who are struggling with form while Swamibapa will be at Nairobi Club to battle it out with Kongonis. From three matches, Ruraka have won one. Other matches lined up for Sunday will pit Kanbis against Cutchi Leva at Samaj School with Nairobi Gymkhana hosting Sikh Union. On Sunday, Sikh Union will host Kanbis in another match that promises a lot of thrills.