Bungoma is not a dance floor, where you come to do a jig after looting public funds, Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi has told Jubilee leaders.He said Jubilee leaders &ldquo;come and dance with goodies to entice residents&rdquo;, but this will not work.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve seen Jubilee come here many times, thinking this is a disco. We want to caution them and tell our people to be wary of their intentions due to the ills they have done to Kenyans,&rsquo;&rsquo; Mudavadi said.He spoke to the press on Sunday after a service at the Christ the King Church, Bungoma.Mudavadi said Bungoma residents, like others in Western counties, are fed up with Jubilee&rsquo;s neglect and looting of billions of shillings.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re telling our people to be vigilant and not be hoodwinked by the money Jubilee is pouring here. They have looted it from taxpayers,&rdquo; he said. Mudavadi said Jubilee extols wanton corruption. The high cost of living is an indication Kenyans are suffering. Mudavadi said the current administration must give way to a fresh and sober leadership that Kenyans are yearning for.He said the National Super Alliance will distribute resources equitably and ensure even development in all parts of the country. Mudavadi also opened ANC offices in Bungoma and urged residents in Kanduyi to register en masse.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve intensified the voter registration campaign. It&rsquo;s called Nasa Kura campaign. It will redeem our country from Jubilee&rsquo;s bad leadership and make the lives of Kenyans better,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve gone round and seen low turnout. Here in Khalaba ward only 400 new people have registered, despite a 5,000 target. We want all aspirants to come out and urge residents to register to vote.&rdquo;Mudavadi urged the Registrar of Persons and the IEBC to correct the issue of shared ID numbers.He termed it abnormal for people to share ID numbers, saying it might undermine the credibility of the election outcome. &ldquo;Who knows how many other multiple ID numbers are out there? On Election Day, one might go to a polling station and be told he has already voted,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.