The race for Nyeri governor is easily shaping up to be a battle of billionaires in a county where many elected leaders have only served a single term.Other than the incumbent Nderitu Gachagua, the race has attracted former Mathira MP and controversial roads contractor Ephraim Maina (who has yet to declare), popularly known as Kirinyaga, and 2013 TNA candidate Wahome Gakuru.Also eyeing the seat are businessman and industrialist Githinji Kinyanjui, known as Cocorico, National Oil chairman Daniel Wamahiu and Athi Water Services chairman Wachira Keen. According do youth leader and political commentator Gibson Wambugu, Cocorico brings in new blood and Gachagua might endorse him, with Gichohi of Kieni as his running mate, in case he doesn&rsquo;t run due to his poor health.But political affairs consultant and Nyeri Town MP aspirant Ngunjiri Wambugu doesn&rsquo;t buy the Cocorico arrangement. In his opinion, even if Gachagua were to negotiate, he would do that will a political bigwig, not a newcomer. He says this was Gakuru&rsquo;s undoing in 2013. He was a new entrant. Others who have shown their interest are former Kenya Dairy Board CEO Machira Gichohi, Munene Kairu, who has interests in the hospitality industry, and Thuo Mathenge, the brains behind Brade Gate Poultry Industries. He ran on the Ford Asili ticket in 2013.The stakes are high, given the campaigns started almost immediately after the 2013 general election. There have been a lot of differences between the governor on one side and MCAs on the other, backed by the MPs.Since 2015, MCAs have pushed to impeach Governor Gachagua, which they did in September last year, for alleged abuse of office and poor performance. But the Senate didn&rsquo;t approve the impeachment.Senator Mutahi Kagwe has opted for a diplomatic path unlike other legislators, urging leaders to put the interests of the electorate first before scheming to remove the governor. He has yet to declare his interest in the governor race but he has big grassroots support according to political analyst Dennis Mwangi. If he runs, Gibson says Mathenge will be his running mate. In this arrangement, Maina will run for senator against Wambugu Nyamu.The MPs who supported his removal were Kabando wa Kabando (Mukurweini), Mary Wambui (Othaya), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Peter Weru (Mathira) and Esther Murugi (Nyeri Town). The push was led by county assembly Majority leader Duncan Gituanja.Priscilla Nyokabi will defend her Woman rep position against Rahab Mukami.What are the numbers?Political parties in Nyeri don&rsquo;t matter as much as the candidates themselves &ndash; personality trumps politics. For instance, the incumbent governor won with 137,469 votes on the GNU ticket against TNA&rsquo;s Gakuru in 2013, who managed 126,776. Gachagua is from Ngorano, Mathira constituency, while Gakuru is from Nyeri Town.Senator Kagwe won on the Narc ticket against Maina, who was the TNA candidate, while Weru of Mathira won on the GNU ticket. There are several MCAs who stood and won on other small parties such as Ford Asili and Saba Saba.Up until the last mass registration of voters in March last year, Kieni had 90,000 voters, followed by Mathira with 87,033. Nyeri Town had 70,653, Othaya 51,210, Mukurweini 46,291 and Tetu 43,400.Almost needless to say, these numbers will increase by the end of the final voter registration that began on January 16 and ends on February 14.From these figures and those of the 2013 polls, Mathira and Kieni are the key determinants. It is important to note that Kieni inhabitants migrated mostly from Mathira and Tetu constituencies. Ngunjiri, however, says Nyeri if leveraged around issues and not individuals, will influence who becomes governor. This, he, says lacked in 2013 despite it having been the Nyeri provincial headquarters for years.Three of the major candidates for governor are from Mathira &mdash; Gachagua, Maina and Kinyanjui while Nyeri has two &mdash; Mathenge and Gakuru.The agendaOther factors are Gachagua&rsquo;s performance on agriculture, especially coffee and tea.Coffee has been turned into a political tool, especially due to the rise in the number of cartels in the sector and theft. Roads, water and unemployment are topical issues.One key road that will be a major campaign tool is the Marua-Kiamariga road in Mathira, which also connects State Lodge Sagana to the Karatina-Nyeri road. A project that Governor Gachagua should have tarmacked or pushed for during his tenure as MP is yet to be done, 10 years later. His fieriest critic and rival Maina on his part pushed for the tarmacking of the Karatina-Kiawarigi-Ruthagati-Kiamariga road as Mathira MP from 2007 to 2013. Gachagua, however, says he has had more than 1,000km of roads repaired with laterite (murram).According to Gachagua, his government has been working on street lighting and installed more than 30 lighting masts in major areas across the county.His administration has been spending Sh320million per year on the supply of drugs, surgical dressings and laboratory reagents. The county government has also installed a general-purpose X-ray unit at Naromoru, supplied a mobile X-ray Unit at Warazo and digitised X-ray machines at Karatina and Mukurweini hospitals.In March 2015, Gachagua commissioned a Comprehensive Renal and Dialysis Unit at the County Referral Hospital. His administration has also supplied 118km of water pipes to community water projects, de-silted and rehabilitated 20 water pans and constructed five water tanks. It also developed learning materials for 300 ECDE centres in the county, repaired five ECDE centres and built toilets for two centres. The county has also supplied tools and equipment to 143 Youth Polytechnics, started income-generating projects in eight polytechnics, and supplied 25 computers to support 25 polytechnics.