The Labour court has given doctors&nbsp;a "small window" to call off their strike or face&nbsp;a month in jail.In a ruling on Thursday, judge Hellen Wasilwa, asked the doctors to end the strike in two weeks, during which she said negotiations should be taking place."If you do not end the strike I will jail you for one month...&nbsp;If the strike is still on [after two weeks], you will be arrested and taken to jail," she warned.&nbsp;"I will not tell the Kilimani OCS to arrest you, just walk and come here."Wasilwa accused doctors' union officials, who&nbsp;skipped contempt hearings,&nbsp;of not&nbsp;being law abiding citizens."The only way this court can resolve the matter is if you end the strike. You are disobedient&nbsp;Kenyans... You disregard court orders...," she said.The visibly agitated judge accused the doctors of "adamantly refusing" to end the strike."You are all talking about a CBA. There is no CBA... I have not registered any CBA because it is not registered," she said.Noting her duty&nbsp;was to protect the people's lives, Wasilwa said she cannot allow doctors to let people die because of their demands."I&nbsp;don't think a CBA can override the lives of&nbsp;Kenyans. It cannot replace lives of the lives lost," she said. Labour court judge Hellen Wasilwa delivers&nbsp;a ruling concerning the doctors' strike, January 12, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYURead:&nbsp;Kenya to hire skilled, cheaper and jobless doctors from India, CubaAlso read:&nbsp;Inside the striking doctors&rsquo; 2013 collective bargaining agreementThe judge lectured leaders of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union, telling them they were weak."I&nbsp;am&nbsp;surprised you are telling me you are leaders yet you are helpless. You are&nbsp;officials... You cannot tell me you are&nbsp;helpless," she said."It is you who started the strike.. Tell them (members) to go back to work."Wasilwa said she may sympathise with the doctors but that their "weak" leaders&nbsp;should be dismissed."The union should not be there because it is&nbsp;a leadership&nbsp;that can do nothing. The&nbsp;decision&nbsp;of the courts was that the strike should be suspended," she said.Officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union before Labour court Hellen Wasilwa, January 12, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYUThe doctors' union&nbsp;dared the government&nbsp;to arrest its officials for skipping hearings at the court.Warrants were issued on Tuesday for the arrest of KMPDU officials by the Kilimani OCS.Wasilwa said at the time that the doctors failed to appear for sentencing on contempt charges.But Ouma Oluga, KMPDU secretary general, said the government should stop intimidating striking doctors through the courts.The court declared the&nbsp;strike illegal and ordered them to resume work&nbsp;immediately.The court directed union officials to call off the strike that has contributed to the deaths of at least 20 people. But the union defied the orders.On Monday, Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya said counties were free to advertise doctors' positions and conduct recruitment so the public can be treated.The doctors, after a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta in Mombasa, rejected the government's offer to increase their salaries by 40 per cent.A day later, a team of union officials were ejected from the Treasury building after they insisted on the 300 per cent raise as stated in their 2013 CBA with government.The government has blamed the doctor's union for the 'illegal strike' that started on December 5, 2016.This was after it offered a Sh50,000 increase for the lowest paid doctors, which would raise their salaries to Sh176,000, but unions rejected the same.Spokesman Eric Kiraithe said the union was offered good packages but refused to stop the strike.