Airtel and Telkom Kenya's Orange are yet to install infrastructure that supports high-speed 4G internet services, the regulator has said, hinting at a possible delay in the two firms getting licence. The Communications Authority of Kenya says the two telcos &ldquo;would have already rolled out (4G) in a number of towns&rdquo; on trial basis by now, but are lagging behind because they have not imported the required equipment. &ldquo;They have indicated they have purchased the equipment, so we expect they will have them in place by March,&rdquo; CA director general Francis Wangusi told the Star in an interview. The companies have not paid the Sh$25 million (Sh2.59 billion) licence fee for the 4G spectrum, further limiting their chances of getting permits by March, the target for countrywide high-speed internet coverage. Only market leader Safaricom has paid the fee, Wangusi said, adding the giant telco will receive its licence in the next few weeks. &ldquo;We have finalised the process and have agreed on licence conditions,&rdquo; Wangusi said. Safaricom has rolled out 4G network coverage in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Meru, Kisii and surrounding counties. The company, majority owned by UK's Vodafone, said in October the coverage raised to 30 the counties with the broadband services. Safaricom and Airtel were in 2015 issued with 4G frequency spectrum on a pilot basis, while Telkom Kenya&rsquo;s new shareholder, Helios Investment Partners, applied for the same. The CA is keen to switch to the high-speed 4G network from 3G, saying it will enable the telcos to offer broadband-based TV broadcasts. Last year, Safaricom launched an ambitious expansion programme to increase its 4G base stations from 500 to more than 1,000 by December. The project will increase the firm's 3G and 4G footprint to more than 4,600 sites, cementing its position as the leading internet provider. The number of mobile subscriptions in the country stood at 38.5 million, CA&rsquo;s latest data-first quarter sector statistics report for the financial year 2016-17 (July-September 2016) shows. Safaricom had 26.6 million subscribers (69 per cent of the market), Airtel 6.7million, while Telkom had 2.9 million subscribers. Broadband subscriptions stood at 11.9 million, up from 10.8 million in the preceding quarter. The three operators will be required to share at least 30 per cent of the 4G frequency spectrum with smaller telcos.