At
a popular herbal clinic in Ngara, Nairobi, a woman enquires whether there are
herbal contraceptives on sale. An
elderly attendant at the desk responds in the affirmative and fishes out tiny
pink tablets from one of the drawers. Each pill goes for Sh500. The
pills have Chinese writings on them and the woman can’t read Chinese, so she engages
the attendant for more information. The
pills go by the name Sophia, she is told, and they are taken once every month. But
the woman is still sceptical and keeps asking about the side-effects and the
efficacy of pills. What if they don’t work? What if they make her bleed? she
asks. Seemingly
worked up, the attendant hands back her money and asks her to leave, saying
she cannot guarantee that the pills will not have negative side-effects on her. “There
are no contraceptives without side-effects,” the attendant says. “All I know is
that we serve hundreds of clients every month and none of them has come back to
say that the pills have given them problems.” The
Chinese contraceptives are on sale in many herbal clinics in the country. Most
of those who sell them and those who use them do not seem to have much information
on these pills because they are packaged in Chinese. The name of the pills and
instructions on how to use them are all in Chinese. In
2009, then Director of Medical Services Dr Francis Kimani raised the alarm
on reports of health complications linked to the use of the Chinese
contraceptives, but the warning seems to have fallen on deaf ears. DANGEROUSLY POPULAR Kimani
said children under the age of three were having enlarged breasts and uteruses after their mothers used these contraceptives. Breastfeeding children developed
swollen feet, knock knees and stunted speech. Mothers
reported feeling pregnant all the time, while others went into depression.
Kimani said the pills contain high levels of hormones, about 40 times those in
conventional contraceptives. Despite
this warning, the Chinese contraceptives continue to be popular among women in
Kenya. Most of the users interviewed
said the pills are convenient since they are taken only once every month,
unlike conventional pills that have to be taken daily. The pills also cause
increased sex drive, a welcome side-effect for many women. “For
me the only side-effects I experienced are the good ones,” says Jane Maingi, a
housewife in Nairobi. “My libido was so high that I used to beg my husband to
sneak out from work and come back home.” Maingi
was on the pill for two years but then stopped because she wanted another baby.
She is now eight months pregnant and plans to continue using the Chinese pills
after giving birth. The housewife says if the pills had any negative effects, she
would have known by now. She says while she was on the pill, she made several
visits to her gynaecologist and got a clean bill of health each time. Even
her current pregnancy has been uneventful. Annete
Akinyi, a Busia businesswoman, says she has been on the pill for 10
years. Every time she travels to China for business, which is twice a year,
she buys enough stock for herself and her friends. “One
of the people I sell the pills to is a doctor,” she says. Akinyi
says ordinary contraceptives suppressed her libido and made her gain weight.
Since she discovered the Chinese contraceptives, she has never looked back. LONG HISTORY The
once-a-month contraceptive pill has been used in China since the 1960s. The
pill is taken on the fifth day of menstruation for the first time, then after
20 days and after every 30 days thereafter. Even
though they are marketed as herbal products, studies conducted on the
contraceptives show that they have high doses of estrogen and progestogen,
which are artificial hormones. A
2007 study published by the US National Institutes of Health says lack of good
quality data prevents confident assessment of the safety and efficacy of the once-a-month
pills. The report, however, notes that available evidence indicates a high
incidence of bothersome side-effects and hypertension. About 5.8 per cent of
the pill users developed hypertension during the first year of use. The
report says the high monthly hormone doses raise questions about the safety of
the pills. Since
the contraceptives are sold in herbal clinics as herbal medicine, it is
difficult for the government to regulate their sale and use. There are no
control mechanisms for herbal medicines at the moment. In 2010, the Pharmacy
and Poisons Board issued guidelines on the regulation of herbal medicine but
these guidelines are yet to take effect. Dr
Joachim Osur, the technical director of reproductive, maternal and child health
at Amref, says the Health ministry has no control over the so-called herbal
contraceptives because they are not registered under the ministry. “People
selling herbal medicine are registered under the Department of Cultural Services.
So the Health ministry has no control over them,” he says. The
reproductive health expert says even the director of medical services cannot
ban the Chinese medicine because they do not fall under his jurisdiction. Osur
says the drugs are probably imported as herbal medicine or supplements and that
is why they have never come under the radar of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “If
they are imported as medicine, they have to be registered in Kenya,” Osur says.
“The registration process is very stringent and thorough. It takes about one or two
years. As long as the Chinese contraceptives come in as herbal supplements or
herbal medicine, then the board has no control over them.” Osur
says it is difficult for health experts to talk about the drugs’ efficacy and
side-effects because they do not know what they contain. “We
don’t know whether they have negative side-effects because we don’t know what
chemicals they contain. Sometimes those chemicals have long-term effects so we
can’t tell what effects they will have on users in the long run. It is until
someone carries out a chemical analysis on them that we can say whether they are
safe or not,” Osur says. The
head of reproductive health division at the Health ministry declined to
comment on the matter. 