A little girl in India whose belly now weighs more than the rest of her body because of a viciously aggressive tumour has begun chemotherapy after her cries triggered a fundraising campaign.Sohana, who is two years old, is suffering from Wilms' tumour, a form of cancer which has led to a huge growth in her left kidney. Before it grew she weighed just 13 pounds but the tumour itself weighs 20lb and has left her in immense pain.So debilitating was the tumour that Sohana was unable to walk and was unable to keep down any food. Images of the poor little mite have gone viral in India and a fundraising campaign has led to her being taken to Birla Vikas Hospital in Chitrakoot, Madhya Pradesh, where she is undergoing chemotherapy. Dr Sanjay Maheshwari, a cancer Surgeon at the hospital, said: "The toddler has a severe case of Wilms' Tumour wherein the tumour has spread in her abdomen. It is not really an uncommon disease in children but her case is serious because she was left untreated."We first conducted a biopsy and have started chemotherapy cycles and believe she would need at least four more cycles of chemo. Once we see her responding to the chemo and medicines, we will operate on her. We are waiting for her response."Dr Maheshwari believes she will need at least five cycles of chemotherapy before the tumour shrinks to a size which they can operate on it.Her father Mahfuz Khan, an electrician, and mother Madina, both 25, are impoverished and could not afford to take her to a doctor.Eventually her grandmother Haseena Begum, 51, took her to a clinic but it was only when the child was spotted by volunteers of Sarvodya Seva Ashram Child Line, an NGO, that she was really able to get proper treatment.Abhimanyu Singh, from Sarvodya Seva Ashram Child Line, said:"'We are trying our best to collect money for her treatment. Doctors have told us it could cost anywhere between &pound;450 and &pound;500. We have so far managed to collect around &pound;120 but are hopeful of getting help soon."The chemo is already beginning to have an effect and Mrs Begum said: "She is a little better now. She is smiling and eating, even though not as much as she should but we are happy and hopeful that she would now survive. We have faith in the doctors and God."