Jubilee members and my rivals are harassing me for talking about the ills done to Kilifi residents, but I will not be intimidated, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has said.&ldquo;I will speak the truth. Even if they take off all my clothes, I will walk naked in Kilifi and say the truth,&rdquo; he said.Security is a rightThe governor spoke in Adu Kamale on Tuesday, hours after the national government restored his security.Kingi had toured six completed water projects from Kadzandani to Kamale.His security and that of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho had been withdrawn on Saturday in a move widely seen as punishment and harassment for not toeing the Jubilee line, but described by police as a routine reorganisation.Kingi and Joho had separately on Friday and Saturday criticised the Jubilee administration and questioned what projects they have initiated in the two counties.Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo said providing security is not a favour, but is mandatory as stipulated by the Constitution.&ldquo;Uhuru was once in opposition and he was not undermined. Why is he frustrating Coast governors? As a President, he can&rsquo;t come to the Coast and harass political leaders,&rdquo; he said.I&rsquo;m a threat to jubileeOn Tuesday, Kingi said Jubilee sees him as the stumbling block in their agenda to conquer Kilifi.He said he will not stop telling the people of Kilifi the truth about the national government&rsquo;s failures, as it is his duty as a leader to ensure justice.Kingi said his woes with the national government began after he told residents that the Sh2.3 billion water project,which was to be launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta last week, was a loan given by the World Bank to the Malindi Water and Sewerage Company to supply water from Kakuyuni, Gongoni, and Gede to Kilifi. He said residents will repay the loan.&ldquo;Jubilee wants me to say thanks mtukufu rais for bringing in projects. I cannot do it because I will be lying to my people,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Withdrawal of my security should not give you [Kilifi residents] sleepless nights. It&rsquo;s nothing. If they take firearms, I cannot escape. I was not brought up with firearms.&rdquo;Don&rsquo;t divert development cashHe said the government wants to divert the Sh1.2 billion Equalisation Fund allocated to the county to pay contractors building the Malindi-Sala Gate and Mamburui-Marafa roads.The county has already received Sh700 million of the Equalisation Fund, Kingi said.&ldquo;The Jubilee government wants to use Sh600 million to pay the contractor for Malindi-Sala Gate road and another Sh100 million for Mamburui-Marafa road. This is unacceptable. They promised to make the roads and should look for their own money and not use the Equalisation Fund,&rdquo; he said.The Malindi-Sala Gate road is being tarmacked at a cost of Sh4 billion, while the Mamburui-Marafa road will be tarmacked at Sh2 billion, Kingi said.