The IEBC wants an out-of-court settlement with Cord to end the standoff on auditing voter&rsquo;s register &mdash; the impasse is threatening to mess up its electoral timelines.The commission made the settlement appeal yesterday, as it announced only about 82,000 voters registered on Monday. That&rsquo;s when the final, month-long drive began. It aims to register six million voters.IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba yesterday warned the ongoing court battle regarding audit of the voter register may upset tight timelines.&ldquo;As we speak, we do not know when that case would be concluded. We do not know when we would start the audit and we do not know the impact of that delay in terms of election preparedness,&rdquo; Chiloba told a news conference at his office in Nairobi. &ldquo;My prayer is that the potential conflict or disagreement can be sorted out of the court [and this can] perhaps be explored so we are on the same page as we prepare for elections.&rdquo;Cord moved to the High Court to challenge the award of the tender to conduct the audit. It argued the IEBC failed to &ldquo;set the benchmark and rules for the audit process&rdquo;. It says a flawed register will be used to rig the election. The judiciary stopped the award temporarily but the legal duel is ongoing. The law requires the IEBC to implement audit recommmendations by February 17 &mdash; and the court battle is putting pressure on the commission.Flanked by senior commission staff, Chiloba warned there will be no extension of voter registration. &ldquo;So if you have not registered during this period, you may be exuded from voting. The reason is we have legal timelines that we must observe. That means at some point we must close the registration so we fulfill the conditions in law,&rdquo; Chiloba said.The last month-long registration last year failed dismally. Only 1.4 million new voters were registered, against the target of four million. Voter apathy was cited as a big reason. This time all parties say the outcome of the election is likely to be determined by voter turnout. They are mobilising supporters.Chiloba said that on Monday, only 82,000 new voters were registered.This translates to about 2,000 voters per county, although statistics from four counties had not been received. The four counties are Lamu, Turkana, Tana River and Laikipia.However, Chiloba downplayed the delay in the four counties, attributing it to logistical problems.He said at least 200,000 Kenyans must be registered per day for the IEBC to meet its six-million target.&ldquo;The countrywide campaign started on a commendable note except for a few challenges, which include delays in deployment and operations on the part of IEBC and environment hardships experienced by voters in some area,&rdquo; Chiloba said. According to the IEBC boss, Biometric Voter Registration kits have worked 99 per cent throughout the country.He said BVR kits are being replaced in the few areas where they have malfunctioned. The commission has reserved backup BVR kits in every constituency.&ldquo;The commission has deployed two ICT officers in every constituency to provide technical support to voter registration clerks in the field,&rdquo; he said.The commission chief executive also said the law does not permit the agency to register Kenyans with ID waiting cards. That provision was removed from the Election Act after the 2013 polls.Chiloba said, however, they were encouraged by the large number of youths turning out to register.The registration figures per region, IEBC said will be announced weekly.The CEO announced registration of diaspora voters will begin after conclusion of the mass voter registration.But its the new commissioners, led by chairman Wafula Chebukati, will decide in which countries Kenyans will be registered and subsequently allowed to vote.Chiloba said the issue of diaspora voting is sensitive. Chebukati and his team of six commissioners were approved by Parliament on Tuesday but are yet to be sworn in.According to the IEBC diaspora policy, only countries that host more than 3,000 Kenyans will be allowed to vote on August 8.Chiloba said in Mandera East and Lafey constituencies, there have been name changes of electoral areas.This was due to a Court of Appeal ruling that quashed a High Court decision changing the two boundaries from those drawn by the electoral ageny in 2012.&ldquo;The changes have not been effected in the machines. This means voters will be registered as per the previous registration centres but their records will be transferred to their respective electoral areas,&rdquo; Chiloba said.