Sikh Union stunned defending Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 defending champions Swamibapa by seven wickets as the 2017 tournament bowled off on Sunday in Nairobi.Former champions and last year losing finalists Kanbis were also victorious with an eight-wicket win over hosts Ruaraka with Nairobi Gymkhana outrunning hosts Cutchi Leva at Samaj School. Sikh Union, who had beaten Swamibapa in their last meeting in the final of the Harilal Shah T20 Memorial tournament, rode on left hander Gurdeep Singh&rsquo;s half century to chase down their 139-run target with 20 balls to spare. Gurdeep, the national team middle order batsman, top-scored for the visitors with 47 balls 61.Earlier, Sikh bowlers Frank Nsubuga and Abdul Rehman claimed two wickets each to restrict the hosts to 139 for eight despite Rakesh Kahar&rsquo;s fighting 45. The visitors had a good start in their chase with openers Arthur Kyobe and Rehman putting on 56 in 8.2 overs for the first wicket. After Kyobe was trapped by Kehar on 24 from 25 balls, Gurdeep and Rehman added 54 for the second wicket before Elijah Otieno had Rehman caught behind after scoring 36 from 39 balls.With only 11 runs required, Gurdeep was finally dismissed after hitting ten boundaries and three sixes. Zaheed Abbas and Aman Gandhi remained unbeaten on 10 and seven respectively. Swamibapa had earlier struggled to build up innings as they lost wickets at regular intervals. Openers Alex Obanda (24) and Naman Patel (26) looked to have given their side a good platform of a revenge over the Harilal Shah T20 champions but some poor shot selection played to their disadvantage and in the end gave their opponents an edge. Even the fierce knock by Kehar was not able to stop Sikh who put on a good fielding show.At Cutchi Leva, Nairobi Gymkhana overcame the hosts by six wickets. Electing to bat, the home side posted 122 for 9 with Kishor Bhanderi topscoring with 35 runs. Ravindra Vekaria added on 25 on the total after Raj Savala had run through the batting order with 4 for 22.In reply, Abdul Najmi scored 53 runs to give his side a good platform for a win. Najmi was assisted by Rushabh Patel who scored 20 runs. Former champions Kanbis easily beat hosts Ruaraka by eight wickets. Chasing 126, Kanbis lost only two wickets as they won the match with seven overs to play.