The IEBC has officially launched its second phase of the mass voter registration exercise saying its target is four to six million voters.Chief executive Ezra Chiloba said the commission will use 7793 kits in the 24,000 polling stations across the country, in the 30-day exercise that will begin on Monday."Our polling stations will be converted to polling centres and given the resources we have. We can't have a kit for each centre so we will have three to 10 per ward in relation to the size," he said. "We have about 15.9 million Kenyans registered as voters. Eligible voters were more than nine million as of November last year. We expect to register at least half of these people."The IEBC fell short of its target of registering four million new voters in the first phase of the exercise. The electoral body managed to register only 1,428,056 voters, representing 34 per cent of its national target.More on this: IEBC falls short of target in first phase of mass voter registration exerciseChiloba added at the launch in Nairobi on Sunday that they were looking into the logistics of registering prisoners as it is their right.He said Kenyans abroad will be registered after talks with authorities in the countries they are in.The CEO said voter transfers will be done at the constituency offices of the new polling areas. He said people will have the option of registering at any stations in their constituencies."In the last mass voter registration exercise, 700,000 people applied to transfer their votes. Given the expected high turnout during mass registration, those seeking to transfer should make applications at constituency offices," he said.Those already registered will confirm their status through a web portal and an SMS service that the IEBC will set up.C."Sixty days before elections - May 10 to June 9 - we will open the register for confirmation of registration. We call upon everyone to ensure they are ready to cast their vote in August," said Chiloba.The united opposition and the ruling Jubilee coalition have both asked their supporters to turn up in large numbers to register and vote, with the aim of winning the August 8 poll.Raila said the opposition will not hold mass protests to oppose passage of election laws but focus on voters registration within the next 30 days.In a change of tactic, Raila said Kenyans should focus on registering as voters before making a decision on the election laws passed by parliament."We have learnt our lessons. Let us focus all our energies on registering people. As your leaders, we will be visiting your areas to show our support," he told their rally at Bomas of Kenya on Wednesday"Each day we must register the maximum number possible. We must not let the IEBC get away with mischief."More on this: No mass rallies but mass voter listing in next 30 days, Raila says at BomasAlso read: [STATEMENT] Register, vote without fear of Jubilee rigging - RailaThe President asked his party's delegates to ensure Kenyans register as members and that campaigns for the election are peaceful.Jubilee Party launched its smart membership card, which will cost Sh20, during a meeting at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi on Friday.Read more: Join united, focused Jubilee, Uhuru tells Kenyans at smart card launch