Name/Pseudonym: Bwana MdogoOccupation: Cartoonist/IllustratorI am a freelance cartoonist and book illustrator. I took up cartooning on a full-time basis some three years ago. Since 2007, most of my cartooning was done in my free time, since working and studying took up most of my time. What time do you get up?I mostly wake up at 6 a.m. I stay in bed reading or watching documentaries. I then decide which of prior ideas I will illustrate during the day.What do you have for breakfast and why?At 10 a.m., I have my breakfast at the office. It usually comprises either coffee or tea, accompanied by mandazi or chapati. Coffee/tea is offered in the office, I only purchase the accompaniments. Cost-cutting measures, hehe.What is your day at work like?My day is usually very flexible. I leave the house at 9 a.m. and get to the office at around 10 a.m. After getting to the office, I check my email and send replies, after or during which I have breakfast. Depending on how I feel, I either sketch ideas for illustrating or go ahead with illustrating without sketching. There&rsquo;s a lot of chit chatting and basking outside in the sun just to clear my head and breathe some fresh air.What do you have for lunch and what is your afternoon like?I do not have lunch. Food in the afternoon makes me lazy and sleepy. As such, my afternoons are spent drawing or reading newspaper articles and blogs.What time do you get home?I get home between 7 and 8 p.m. Latest 9 p.m., depending on whether or not I have evening engagements.What do you have for dinner?From Monday to Friday, my dinner is strictly vegan. I alternate between ndengu and beans, accompanied by chapati and lots of chilli. There is always chapati and pepper in my dinner.What you do before bed and what time you get to bed?In the evenings before bed, I either read a little or watch movies. Then I normally fall asleep at around midnight.What do you do on Saturdays?Saturdays and Sundays are chill-out days. I read a little, hang out with buddies and play football on Sundays.