The crowning on Saturday of Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi as the Luhya spokesperson could polarise the already fractious community more than unite it, some analysts say.Others say it&rsquo;s impossible for the divides to get any deeper and say Mudavadi should assert himself.Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli named Mudavadi the Luhya supremo in Kakamega on New Year&rsquo;s Eve. He said his action &ldquo;closed the doors to political brokerage&rdquo; in Western region.Mudavadi was rated the most popular Luhya leader after scoring 39.5 per cent in a survey conducted by University of Nairobi political scientists.The study rated Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya second at 30 per cent apiece. Analyst Martin Andati says, &ldquo;Atwoli did the right thing the wrong way.&rdquo;He said the process lacked proper consultation and consensus and will likely divide the community further ahead of the August 8 polls.&ldquo;This is likely to unite Wetang&rsquo;ula, Cyrus Jirongo and Eugene Wamalwa to form another movement, making Mudavadi&rsquo;s work difficult,&rdquo; Andati said.Sources told the Star the three now read from the same script and have met to convene another meeting with an aim of fronting another Luhya presidential candidate.But Andati said Wetang&rsquo;ula is more of a Bukusu than a Luhya leader, as Khalwale is more visible in Western than he. Former Medical Services Minister Amukowa Anangwe said the Saturday event was loaded with much more symbolism than substance.&ldquo;Mudavadi may have provoked more serious turf wars with Wetang&rsquo;ula and Jirongo than was intended,&rdquo; he said.Anangwe said Mudavadi&rsquo;s stature has not been changed, as he hasn&rsquo;t won mileage in Luhyaland, bearing in mind his key detractors were not consulted and brought on board to endorse the decision.&ldquo;Mudavadi should forget the occasion and strategise on how to endear himself to the rest of Kenyans if he is serious about his presidential bid. He swallowed the wrong bait by accepting to be named the spokesperson in such a controversial episode,&rdquo; he said.Anangwe said in the long run, Atwoli may have egg on his face. But political analyst Martin Oloo says the idea of rallying behind one person was good and should be supported. He said it won&rsquo;t worsen divisions among the Luhya.&ldquo;How else does the community get divided? It&rsquo;s already divided. This shouldn&rsquo;t be an excuse by those who perpetuate divisions for personal gains,&rdquo; he said. Oloo said Mudavadi should immediately assert himself in the region.