The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry expects a drop in foreign direct investments this year due to drought and jitters around the August 8 general election. Chief executive George Kiondo said this will slow down the pace of economic growth. "When we have elections business people become jittery,&rdquo; Kiondo said. &ldquo;There is a small go-slow, so we are expecting the GDP to slightly drop during the election year." However, KNCCI vice chairman Laban Onditi said the ravaging drought being experienced in the country was as a result of poor planning. This, he said, will hit hard agribusiness activities. "If there were mitigation plans in place and counties were empowered to address these specific issues that occur yearly, it [famine] would not be there," Onditi said. Onditi said KNCCI will bring in experts from China to introduce simple irrigation methods to enable counties cope in times of drought in the future. "We are hoping that with time, as we continue to work with the county governments on planning around drought management and bringing in experts from foreign countries, we shall be able to develop a better mitigation strategy," Kiondo said. KNCCI in collaboration the Kenya Vision 2030, Aremant Group, Kenya Investment Authority and Brand Kenya Board yesterday announced a $2 million (Sh207.9 million) investment at the summit to be held in Kisumu.The Lake Basin Expo and Investment Summit will be the first in a series of such events planned for the other regional economic blocs in the country to take place over the year. The summit's key focus points will be agribusiness, tourism, construction and infrastructure, ICT, security, mining, manufacturing, fishing and how to deal with surplus production among others. Kiondo said that through direct contact with investors from Europe, India and other markets, the country's regional economic blocs will be able to propagate and conceptualise ideas by the foreign investors which could significantly promote growth and development of businesses in the blocs.