Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho yesterday accused the Jubilee government of bragging about projects funded by the World Bank and other international donors at the Coast.Joho, who is a bitter critic of the Jubilee administration, spoke at Bamburi in Mombasa, where President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned a storm water drainage system. The governor was not present at the commissioning of the Buxton footbridge and the Ziwa la Ng&rsquo;ombe slum upgrading projects. &ldquo;We know the history of this project. It was started in 2010, under the Kenya Municipal Programme, when Jubilee was not in government. So we want to see projects that have been done by the Jubilee administration,&rdquo; Joho said.In response, Uhuru said, &ldquo;We shall not engage in divisive politics, but concentrate on development projects that will help improve the lives of thousands of Kenyan citizens.&rdquo; He said the national government will continue working with the counties to improve the lives of Kenyans, but &ldquo;those who don&rsquo;t want can stay&rdquo;.Nyali MP Hezron Awiti was present at Ziwa la Ng&rsquo;ombe. He is a Wiper MP, which is in the opposition. Awiti has over the years been seen to be a staunch supporter of Cord co-principal Raila Odinga in his presidential bid, but Joho is seen as Raila&rsquo;s blue-eyed boy. The former PM prefers him for Mombasa governor to Awiti.Uhuru and his brigade criss-crossed Mombasa town to launch three projects under the Kenya Municipal programme. He first commissioned the Buxton footbridge, before heading to Bamburi to commission the storm water drainage system. His last stop was the Ziwa la Ng&rsquo;ombe slum upgrading project. At Buxton, Uhuru dismissed as &ldquo;mirage&rdquo; the proposed National Super Alliance, saying it will disintegrate like the famous Pentagon. He said Jubilee will not be defeated in the general election because of its track record. In the run-up to the 2007 election, Raila assembled what was easily the most potent team in Kenya&rsquo;s electoral history &ndash; the Pentagon.It comprised the star-studded team of politicians representing virtually all Kenya&rsquo;s regions. They included Musalia Mudavadi, William Ruto, Joe Nyaga and Najib Balala. Former Lands CS Charity Ngilu joined them later, completing a team of six influential politicians. The opposition is currently strategising and putting in place measures to have another formidable force &ndash; Nasa.It is expected to bring together Cord co-principals Raila, KAlonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and possibly Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and secretary general Nick Salat.Just like Pentagon failed to capture power, so will Nasa, the Jubilee team said. When Awiti asked residents who they would vote for, they said Uhuru in unison. &ldquo;Si mnajua wakati ukifika tutapigia nani kura? Rais umesikia vile wananchi wamesema na tutafanya kazi pamoja (I think you know who to vote for when the time comes. Mr President, you&rsquo;ve heard what the residents have said and we will work together),&rdquo; Awiti said. Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro said, &ldquo;We have all heard what Awiti has said, despite the fact that he is from a different political divide. Mr President, in August, we shall prove to you that Coast is no longer an opposition stronghold.&rdquo; He said there is no difference between Nasa and Pentagon, saying most of its proponents ditched it. Uhuru accused the opposition of propagating retrogressive politics. He said counties headed by Cord governors are sabotaging Jubilee&rsquo;s development projects. Uhuru said his administration has channelled a lot funds to Coast counties, particularly Mombasa, but some leaders &ldquo;are keen to discredit this&rdquo;. &ldquo;More than Sh600 million has been used to build this footbridge. Foot paths and slums at the Coast will be upgraded at cost of Sh3.2 billion,&rdquo; Uhuru said. He said due to divisive politics, tourism at the coast has slumped.&ldquo;We are not fighting opposition, but they have to ensure their politics don&rsquo;t hurt tourism,&rdquo; the President said. Tourism almost came to its knees after the 2007-08 post-election violence reportedly caused by Raila&rsquo;s call for mass action. Leaders present included Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala, Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana, Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani and Likoni&rsquo;s Masoud Mwahima.