Kilifi has registered more new voters than Lamu and Tana River counties, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission North Coast coordinator Amina Soud has said.Releasing the interim results at the IEBC office in Kilifi town on Monday, Soud said the county has registered 21,556 voters. The target is 134,877 voters before the listing concludes next month.Tana River has registered 3,787 voters against a target of 33,886. Lamu lags behind, with only 2,700 voters registered against a target of 20,430.&ldquo;We are now struggling with the low turnout. The numbers speak of the need to have more people registered. We are below our expectations because my anticipation was to record at least 50,000 voters every week. Unfortunately, I have only registered only 28,000. This number is still very low,&rdquo; Soud said.In Kilifi, Kilifi North constituency leads with 5,973 voters, while Ganze trails with only 1,836 voters registered.Galole constituency tops Tana River with 1,778 voters, while Garsen has the lowest number with 1,145 voters registered.Lamu West constituency tops Lamu county with 1,690 registered voters, followed by Lamu East with 1,009.Soud said she is hopeful the numbers will increase because residents are being urged to register.&ldquo;We are almost 14 per cent of our targets in Lamu, Kilifi and Tana River. Mombasa county doubles the totals of the North Coast so we are targeting registration of 500,000 in Mombasa, Kilifi, Lamu and Tana River,&rdquo; she said.Politicians have been saying more than one million voters are targeted in Coast counties.&ldquo;If we say eligible voters, we are talking about those who have IDs because we know they can vote. We don&rsquo;t count those who have no IDs. The records show Mombasa county almost triples the North Coast&rsquo;s targeted 188,593 eligible voters. That number can only manage to list almost 500,000 voters,&rdquo; Soud said.She said they had received a complaints from pastoralists from Kitui South who wanted to register at a Kakuta polling station which found in the border between Tanariver and Kitui South.She said that the pastoralists had refused to be registered at Kalolani polling station found 20 kilometers from the Tanariver border insisting that they would not return to Kitui South.&ldquo;We have a polling station called Kalolani in Kitui South. It is actually found in the border between the Tana river and Kitui South. We have people who resides in Kitui but wanted to be registered in Tana river saying that by the time of voting, they would still be in Tanariver to graze their animals. We rejected that because as IEBC, we have much respect for the boundaries,&rdquo; she said.