Strathmore University have been drawn in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; of the 10th Eastern Africa University games that kicks off today at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. They have been pooled alongside there Makerere, Moi and South Eastern Kenya counterparts. The head coach, Mitch Ocholla is confident about his team topping the group and has made several changes in the team that features in the Division One of the National Sevens circuit. &ldquo;We have prepared well for the competition and the players are targeting top honours. We are in a tough pool but I believe in my players and we have made changes in the team since most senior players seem fatigued due to the Kenya Cup,&rdquo; said Ocholla. The team lost most of their senior players this year to eventual national sevens series winners Menengai Cream Homeboyz after finishing their studies and Ocholla has opted for a younger yet efficient side. &ldquo;We have included a lot of rookies in the team and we hope they will blend well with the few senior players head of the clash. They know every game is as crucial as the final, and as a result they will perform well,&rdquo; he added. KUSA champions Mt. Kenya University are in Pool ;A alongside Kenyatta University&rsquo;s Blak Blad, Nkumba University (Uganda) and Pwani University. Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; has Nairobi University&rsquo;s Mean Machine, hosts JKUAT, Maseno University and Uganda Christian University. Meanwhile, the Kenya U19 management has named15 players to go into a weekend residential camp at Pembroke School. The four-day camp that runs from December 16-19 will be used to gauge the team conditioning levels. Chipu finished third at this year&rsquo;s Rugby Africa Division 1A U19 championships held in Harare, Zimbabwe in September. Squad: James Wanjala, Joshua Matasi, Boniface Ochieng, Kevin Kerore, William Were, Edwin Obae, Stanley Isogol, Harold Anduvati, Xavier Kipngetich, Alvin Okoth, Edmund Anya, Victor Matiko, Joshua Mwangi, Derrick Keyoga, Edward Tambo; Officials: Paul Odera (head coach), Mike Aung (assistant coach), Mike Owino ( S&amp;C), Jimmy Mnene (team manager)