After the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, Kenya adopted a new system of governance that introduced the concept of devolution, where all Kenyans would have an equitable share of resources.This new system of governance meant service delivery would be closer and, generally, the life of every Kenyan would be improved. The pioneer governors took office in April 2013 after the general election. It has been four years since they took office. The Council of Governors has organised annual devolution conferences as one of the ways of monitoring and evaluating the progress of decentralisation in this country. The First Annual Devolution Conference was held in Kwale county in April 2014, the second in Kisumu in April 2015 and the third was in Meru in April last year. This year, we will be holding the devolution conference from March 7 in Nakuru county. As the curtain comes down on the first term of the first governors, there have been concerted efforts to educate the public through word and deed in what devolution is and what it has achieved. The county governments have put in place mechanisms to address the concerns that have come with the change of governance, and continuously sought to reassure the public that devolution is indeed working.The last four years also witnessed moments that were not pleasant and conducive for the growth of devolution between the two levels of government, within governments and among key devolution players. There were moments of expressed displeasure where citizens felt they were not getting value for money from both the county and national governments. The new governance system faced institutional challenges, political intrigues and dynamics, technical capacity gaps and resistance to change. But as the curtain falls on the pioneer governments, it can be said that devolution is on track and it is here to stay.As we draw nearer to the Fourth Annual Devolution Conference, and it being the last one for the pioneer governments, this year&rsquo;s will be purely about the mwananchi. It will allow ordinary citizens to share their experiences and insights on how devolution has impacted their lives. It is a scorecard for all actors in devolution. This conference will be about knowing how each player &mdash; the national government, the counties, the Senate, the independent commissions, media and development partners, among others &mdash; has contributed in ensuring the success of devolution. This year&rsquo;s theme will be,&ldquo;Devolution &ndash; Transforming Lives: Tell Your Story.&rdquo;The objective of the conference will be to safeguard the gains, enhance the understanding and appreciation of devolution as a system of governance that focuses on public accountability and learning new ways of socioeconomic development and delivering services. The objectives will be to review the socioeconomic impacts of devolution over the past four years, discuss how it has been a tool for socioeconomic integration in promoting equity and inclusivity, to demonstrate achievements in adopting the &ldquo;Big Bang&rdquo; devolution implementation approach over the past four years. The gathering will identify opportunities for change, growth and enhanced cooperation in changing perspectives and entrenching devolution. The conference will also review the financial burden in applying the two-thirds gender principle.The conference will run for three days, and it will take an all-inclusive plenary session approach. The organisers will come up with questions that will be asked in the plenary sessions &mdash; normally sector-based. Unlike in previous years, the presentations will be paperless. Everyone who will sit in a plenary session will have to answer the questions from the point of experience. In all these sessions, a member of the public may be invited to talk about their experience in a specific sector. The conference hopes to take this approach to celebrate and take stock of devolution and its impact. It will provide an opportunity for all players to share experiences and expand on solutions to address common challenges related to devolution.After this event, participants and the actors will develop a joint communique informed by the outcome of the plenary sessions. The joint communique guides all actors on what they need to work on as they leave the conference. In this case, the incoming governors will be guided on where they need to pick up from their predecessors. To those who are successful in the August elections, they will know where they need to continue pushing and working hard to entrench devolution and make it a success and the best way of political, social and economic inclusiveness for Kenyans.