POLITICAL dynasties have fascinated historians around the world. How is it that the child of a prominent leader is considered by the people to fit into the political shoes of the father? Kenya has had its fair share of political dynasties, the most famous being the Kenyatta-Odinga-Moi lineages.In the Cabinet, Musalia Mudavadi also took over from his late father, Moses, and rose to become both VP and DPM. Although still only in the second generation, there are indications that an Oginga Odinga grandchild will sit in Parliament later this year.Main story:Political dynasties prepare to take seats in 2017There has been talk of many current and former politicians&rsquo; children eying their father&rsquo;s positions, including William Ruto&rsquo;s son said to be eyeing his father&rsquo;s old constituency.In Nandi, for instance, Henry Kosgey&rsquo;s son is a sitting MP and rumour had it that another son was eying another constituency in the coming election.Political dynasties are not new nor are they unique to Africa or Kenya in particular. They happen all over the world. In the United States we have the Bush family, in Canada the Trudeau family and in India the famous Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, which has dominated much of their politics since Independence.All of these are democratically elected personages but come from the same bloodline.Many object to dynastic politics, arguing that it violates democracy. Political historian Kanchan Chandra (2016) argues that the primary objection to dynastic politics in a modern democracy is that it introduces a form of birth-based exclusion that is &ldquo;antithetical to democracy&rdquo;. However, as far as women are concerned, dynastic politics tend to favour them where they would otherwise have had poor results. When Cabinet Minister Kipkalya Kones died in a plane crash, his wife Beatrice won the Bomet by-election. Nyiva Mwendwa beat her brother-in-law Kyale Mwendwa to win her late husband&rsquo;s Kitui West constituency.What is it that attracts people to elect the relations of former leaders? Usually, the loyal followers of the old (deceased) leader would like to continue to re-live the old days. An old name offers predictability and, crucially, it offers continuity, particularly for pending projects. Some of them feel sorry for the loss of the leader and like to keep his or her name going. Close relatives, spouses or children of politicians therefore have a better-than-fair chance of retaining the seats in the family, especially during by-elections.The name built by the former leader leverages their rise to power.