Sometime last year Abdullahi Diriye sponsored a motion that sought to compel the national government to simplify the process of issuing ID cards to youths in the former North Eastern region.Diriye, who is the Wajir South MP, argued that the Registration of Persons department has made it difficult for the residents of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties to get IDs by imposing unnecessary restrictions and extra requirements such as vetting in all stages of issuance.&ldquo;There is a lot of profiling by those issuing the IDs. They even ask the applicants to speak fluent Swahili before being issued with an ID. Since when did Kiswahili become proof of citizenship?&rdquo; the MP asks.Even though thousands of youths attain the mandatory age of registration every year, the registration process is not constant and when done, those who register have to wait for many months - if not years - to get the IDs.Diriye has in the past claimed that youth seeking the documents are also being checked for BCG immunisation on their arms."This is unfair because in a region where the vaccination coverage is less than 50 per cent, you cannot make this a ground for getting an ID?&rdquo;A strong advocate for youth empowerment, the MP and has encouraged the youth to get IDs so that they can be identified as Kenyan citizens and not terrorists. &ldquo;The government should invest more in the North and create job opportunities for youths who might want to be lured into terrorism for lack of something to do.&rdquo;The MP has shown that he can do more for his constituency through his focus on improving education in the area through his CDF kitty. He has constructed 20 schools in the last four years. Many youths have joined school and are direct beneficiaries of the improved education infrastructure.Through his investment in education, the MP believes he has helped to reduce the terrorism menace and radicalization by giving the youth an opportunity and making them feel part of the country. He also helped residents get connected to the national grid through the rural electrification programme, which has brought electricity to the homes of the constituents. &ldquo;If re-elected I will complete the projects that I have already started&rdquo; he says. He adds that he will help push forward government policy to open North Eastern with road infrastructures, economic growth, and to also improve the livestock sector which is not well developed.As a politician, Diriye is motivated by the desire to do something positive for his community.C.V1977: Born in Habasweni, rural Wajir County.1985: Started school at Habasweni Primary where he did his KCPE in 1992.1993: Joined Wajir High school for his secondary education from where he sat for his KCSE in 1996.1998:Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC), Nakuru and attained a Diploma In Medical Laboratory in 2001.2002: Madina Nursing Home, Lab technologist until 2003.2003: Egerton University, graduated with a BSC in Biomedical science and technology in 2006.2006: Dial Africa, Executive Director until 2012.2013: Elected MP Wajir South on ODM ticket.2014: &ldquo;I can very confidently say that despite the billions that were given to the county governments, what CDF has done, particularly in my constituency is much more than what the billions we gave to the county governments have achieved. The Sh3.4 billion meant for Rural Electrification Authority (REA) should be channelled through CDF or REA. The county governments have enough funds already. There are some counties that are marginalized, especially the counties in northern Kenya. Up to now, we do not have roads, electricity and water. That is, 50 years down the line, the situation is pathetic in that region. Without tarmacked roads, you cannot pass through the region to access another region.&rdquo;2016: The refugees have been here for too long. They came here way back in the 1990s. When they were coming, we did not anticipate that they would be here for too long. They were put in a big camp and the first casualty was the host community because the refugees had an adverse effect on the environment. My constituency is one of the host community areas. If you go to Dadaab Refugee Complex, which includes Wajir South and parts of Garissa, you will realise that the environment is completely degraded. Trees have been cut and rangelands, which the pastoralists used to graze their animals, are completely depleted. There is competition for resources between the host community and the refugees and this creates conflict between them. Whereas the refugees&rsquo; presence has affected Kenya in general, it is the host community which bears the brunt.&rdquo;