Nyali MP Hezron Awiti could be benefiting from the fallout in ODM in Mombasa, gradually building his team from those who are now drifting away from Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s fold.Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi could be the latest entrant into the Awiti team, after former Likoni MP Suleiman Shakombo, a Joho ally, moved to his camp.Mombasa speaker Thaddeus Rajwayi, a Joho ally, is also thought to have moved to the Awiti camp, but he said he is yet to settle on who to support for governor.The MP is said to have sent his aides to a meeting at the Koblenz Hall in Mvita where Awiti was meeting senior citizens from Mvita constituency.The meeting, called by Ford Kenya secretary general Yasser Bajaber, who has declared support for Awiti, sought to assure the Nyali MP that this year's election will not be about party affiliations but uniting all communities and sharing resources equitably. &ldquo;We have seen what hero worshipping and clamour for party has done in Mombasa. There is very little to show for devolution in Mombasa and that is why the current leadership has to be kicked out,&rdquo; he said. Bajaber said he and Awiti will unite people and foster development. Awiti said his quest for the seat was to show that politics can be used to bring cohesion and unity. &ldquo;The Arabs brought trade to Mombasa and this is the reason why our county enjoys this diversity. What we are fighting for is justice to ensure that the resources are available to all residents and not a selected few,&rdquo; he said. This was the second time in a week that Awiti and Bajaber held a joint meeting with residents.On December 29, Mwinyi told mourners at the funeral of a Ramogi (Luo Council of Elders) member in Migadini that "Mombasa needs a big change". Kongowea MCA Jabess Oduor on Sunday told the Star, "Mwinyi said he supports [Cord leader] Raila Odinga for presidency, Awiti for Governor and himself for Changamwe MP, because Mombasa needs a big change.&rdquo;Mwinyi, however, said he did not meet Awiti or send any aide to the meeting.However, when asked whether he was in Awiti&rsquo;s camp, he shrugged off, saying they are united in Cord.&ldquo;We are people of the same party. We are not divided. We are not in splinter groups. We are in one line and that is Cord of course. ODM is in Cord,&rdquo; the MP said on the phone.On Sunday, Awiti told the Star Mwinyi has no future in Joho&rsquo;s camp.&ldquo;He is already in. He knows that his interests are best taken care of in my camp. Our camp is very strong,&rdquo; he said on the phone.Mwinyi and Joho were very close but they began drifting apart towards the end of last year.&ldquo;His constituents were complaining he has not delivered enough development projects as he pledged. But the problem was he was pushing for the implementation of projects in Changamwe but the county was reluctant,&rdquo; a source close to Mwinyi said.Awiti enjoys support from the Kamba community, which is the majority community in Changamwe constituency.He also enjoys major support from the Luo in the constituency.If Mwinyi joins Awiti, it will be a big win for the governor aspirant.Mwinyi&rsquo;s challenger for the Changamwe seat, Alliy Goshi, a football administrator, enjoys massive support from the county government, which has helped organise major football tournaments in the constituency.