A crucial report by MPs into the Sh1.6 billion NYS mega theft will be ready in a week&rsquo;s time. The 27-member Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee retreats this weekend to write its final report on the heist that drained public coffers at the National Youth Service. The country&rsquo;s most appalling theft of public funds was said to have been masterminded by influential figures in the government and executed by nondescript personalities in the conduit. Committee vice chairman Jackson Rob yesterday told the Star the panel has completed collecting statements and will embark on compiling the report from Sunday. &ldquo;We hope to have the report ready by Thursday next week,&rdquo; he said. Refusing to divulge more details, the Kipkelion West MP termed the findings of the committee &lsquo;earthshaking.&rsquo; &ldquo;From what we have gathered, the report will be high-voltage and earthshaking.We have responsibility as a committee to get to the bottom of the matter in the public interest,&rdquo; Rop said. In December last year, a number of MPs sensationally claimed a close senior relative of a top leader in the executive and a commercial bank bribed PAC members to dilute the final report and shield them from indictment. However, committee chairman and Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo denied the alleged Sh40 million bribery claims.Nairobi businessman Ben Gethi, driver-turned-millionaire overnight John Kago and hairdresser who became an IT expert and central figure in the mega saga, Josephine Kabura, were mentioned as key suspects. Kabura told the committee that former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru helped her register 20 companies in three days, which were used to swindle over Sh1.6 billion. But Waiguru, who left office at the height of the mega scam, denied ever knowing Kabura. The theft was the most daring in recent history as fraudsters colluded with employees of the National Youth Service to inflate tenders and process irregular payments to shadowy companies linked to powerful individuals. In November last year, Waiguru took the NYS scandal to the doorstep of Deputy President William Ruto. She named Ruto&rsquo;s aide Farouk Kibet as a key figure in the NYS heist and said he had 150 calls with suspect Gethi at the time of the scandal. Also named was Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen as another important figure with many contacts with businessman Gethi.