Equity Bank booked a date with Kenya Ports Authority in the Kenya Basketball Federation women&rsquo;s play-off final set for this weekend in Mombasa.The bankers shut out reigning champions United States International University 76-65 in a tight Game 3 play-off semi-finals match at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium.Equity &lsquo;Hawks&rsquo; swept their opponents 3-0 in the best of five series to romp into their first ever final series. KPA had also locked out Co-op Bank by a similar margin. While addressing the players, CEO Bank CEO Dr. James Mwangi promised to mobilise the bank employees to support the team both in the Mombasa and Nairobi matches.&ldquo;You beat the team that stopped you from reaching the final last year. The win shows the spirit and we will give you the support you require to beat KPA,&rdquo; said Mwangi as he hugged each and every player in jubilation.He ordered the players to stay out of office for a whole week to prepare fully for their battle against the porters. &ldquo; For the whole of next week, you are in sports, do not come to the bank,&rdquo; he directed as the players applauded. Equity trailed 20-21in the first quarter but took control in the second as they managed a 20-14 edge. The maintained the lead into the break with a 40-35 advantage.After resumption, the winners posted a similar 20-14 score-line and moved 11 points clear of the students. The &lsquo;Flames&rsquo; who were without star Sarah Chan gave as much as they received, closing in to three points and locking the last quarter 16-16. Hilda Indasi nailed 19 points, Susan Akinyi came off the bench to contribute 16 while Mercy Wanyama scored 14. USIU had 19 from Georgia Odhiambo, 16 from Cynthia Irankunda and 11 from Angela Okoth.Zetech University claimed the ladies lower division crown with a 45-35 win over Strathmore University. Evaline Atieno scored 15 points and Debra Atieno added 11 for the new champions. Jackline Tineaga provided 12 and Bianca Nyambura shot nine for the losers.Umoja took a 2-1 series lead with a 68-63 victory over Zetech University in the men&rsquo;s lower division tie. Gilbert Obiero made 18 points, Martin Okwako had 15 and Kevin Sunguti hit 14 for Umoja. Zetech had 12 from Jeremy Opiyo and 11 from Chris Oluk.