Deputy President William Ruto yesterday was forced to change his route and cancel one rally after youths became rowdy and barricaded the Bungoma bus stage.Ruto, who had addressed a rally in Mumias town, was scheduled to address another at the bus park in Bungoma town. He was forced to divert from the main Mumias Road and take the Mateka-Siritanyi route, then Kanduyi.However, the DP&rsquo;s office said his itinerary did not include going through Bungoma town, as they expected Cord leader Raila Odinga to be there. The youths said the DP would not address them because the Jubilee administration has neglected the region.Chanting NASA and ODM slogans, they destroyed Jubilee materials earlier supplied by Governor Kenneth Lusaka&rsquo;s team. Other motorists were also forced to change their routes.Ruto&rsquo;s advance team, which had stationed itself at the bus park, was forced to leave.Unfulfilled promisesSpeaking to the Star, Taxi Association chairman Collins Opata said they decided to block Ruto because the &ldquo;Jubilee government has not fulfilled the many promises it made to the people&rdquo;.&ldquo;We are tired of being taken for a ride by the Deputy President. He has been here so many times, yet our region still lags behind in development. We wanted to show him he is no longer needed,&rdquo; Opata said.Ruto later addressed a rally at Kanduyi market, where he lashed at the opposition, saying it has no plans for Kenya. He said it only understands orgainising street protests.&ldquo;These people know nothing else apart from street protests, blowing whistles and throwing stones. They have no agenda for Kenya,&rdquo; Ruto said.He defended Jubilee&rsquo;s track record in the region, saying it has commissioned the Musikoma&ndash;Buyofu and the Chwele-Lwakhakha roads.Ruto urged Bungoma residents to vote for Jubilee. He said they erred in 2013 by voting for Cord, which lost. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t lose track the way you did last time. Let us work and form government together this time round,&rdquo; he said.Ruto was with Lusaka, Bumula MP Boniface Otsiula and Dan Wanyama of Webuye West. His visit comes a day after ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi toured the region on Sunday and urged residents to register as voters.Opposition chief Raila Odinga is scheduled to address a series of rallies in the region this week. Earlier, Ruto urged the opposition to outline its agenda and stop frustrating IEBC programmes.Ruto, who met Jubilee Party aspirants from Western in Mumias town, accused the opposition of blocking the cleaning of the voter&rsquo;s register when the IEBC called for the exercise.&ldquo;I get mad when I see Cord leaders calling for cleaning of the voter&rsquo;s register today, when it was them who rushed to court and blocked the exercise after IEBC awarded PricewaterhouseCoopers the contract. They need to make up their mind on whether the register should be cleaned up or not,&rdquo; he said.Opposition &lsquo;confused&rsquo;Ruto said the opposition seems confused and unprepared for the August 8 polls. He said it is applying delay tactics to have the election postponed.&ldquo;But I want to assure them that come rain, come sunshine, we shall have the elections on August 8 as stipulated in the Constitution,&rdquo; he said.Ruto said the opposition is confused, unlike Jubilee, which has a presidential candidate and a party.