He missed school on many occasions to take care of his ailing mother, and eventually dropped out to fend for his five siblings after his stepfather abandoned them. He was orphaned and the people he depended on &mdash; his grandparents and an aunt &mdash; also died, leaving him destitute, to fend for himself in the world. Despite all these setbacks Moses Mungai, 21, scored an A- of 79 points in the just-released KCSE exam results. Mungai, from Gwa Kung&rsquo;u, Ndaragwa, and a former student of Nyandarua High School, Ol Kalou, has become the epitome of hope, resilience and determination. He has seen it all. But thanks to the Equity Bank Wings to Fly programme, he has secured his future through excellent performance.His mother, Virginia Murugi, died in May 2014, aged 35, during heart surgery. She was diagnosed with a heart condition when she was 15. Mungai stayed out of school on many occasions to take care of her.At some point, Murugi married a widower with five children, the eldest in Std Seven and the youngest in Std Two. The man abandoned them, leaving the children under the care of Mungai&rsquo;s ailing mother and her two sons. Mungai dropped out of school in std five to take care of them.&ldquo;I later moved to my maternal grandparents. My mother also moved,&rdquo; he said. Mungai studied in four different primary schools because he had no permanent home. His elder brother, a student at Karatina University, also dropped out for lack of fees.Mungai&rsquo;s grandparents and aunt died, leaving him a destitute. He worked in quarries and neighbours&rsquo; farms to fend for himself.Eventually he went back to school, sat his KCPE exam in 2012 and scored 401 marks. This brought him to the notice of Equity Bank. Mungai would like to study law.In 2015, Mungai, with the support of the Nyandarua High School community, founded the Nyandarua High Support Foundation. It has raised more than Sh600,000 to pay fees for poor students in the school. The foundation sells cards and T-shirts during holidays and gets support from well-wishers. The principal is its patron. Mungai said they agreed that no beneficiary will be sent home for lack of fees. &ldquo;I used to cry when students were sent home for fees ... I knew were it not for Equity I would be among them.&rdquo;