Growing up, many children look forward to turning 18. Why? Because in Kenya, this is the legal age at which you can get married, be able to buy alcohol, join the army and vote, among other freedoms. In other words, this is the age at which one is considered an adult.The latest attempt by Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo to control the gaming industry and to dictate how adults should spend their money is infuriating and a matter of grave concern to me as a representative of the youth, even if I don&rsquo;t bet.On his second attempt to control this industry, Midiwo has made several radical proposals in the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming (Amendment) Bill, 2016, some of which violate our constitutional rights. For now, I will stick with only one, which is of serious concern and could set a bad precedent: Limiting betting to adults aged 25 and above.While an 18-year-old is considered old enough to join the army, fight for his or her country, making decisions on the battle field on who should and should not be killed, some legislators want to treat such a person as a child. This proposal is a worrying trend, where some arms of government are making themselves the Big Brother to a point of seeking excess control over people&rsquo;s personal lives. This country was built by vibrant youths of their era. Dedan Kimathi joined the Independence liberation aged 30 and died aged 36, the Lancaster House delegations were mainly constituted by young and courageous men who championed our Independence through legislation. These examples are evidence that the youth are indeed capable of thinking and making sound decisions in matters that affect them, directly or indirectly.I am therefore disappointed with the bill that smacks of some unexplained vengeance towards the industry. MPs should place more effort in creating a conducive environment for young people to get jobs and to run their business. After paying taxes, it is ridiculous for the government to dictate how one spends his or her cash as long as it is in a legal venture. Whoever crafted this bill, which appears very vindictive for whatever reason best known to the sponsor of the bill, also forgot to factor in the fact that betting firms have also created jobs for many, leave alone their CSR programmes that are benefitting the youth.In an economy where many factories have closed shop due to the rising cost of doing business, Kenya needs more jobs and to diversify the economy. If the massive investments betting firms pump into the sports industry could be sustained, the country will grow into a sporting powerhouse that could be beneficial to many youths.In my opinion, the drafters of the bill only had one thing in mind: Punishing betting firms for their success. If the bill was really about society&rsquo;s welfare and that of the youth, there would be more sobriety in dealing with the concerns arising over the betting popularity/craze. After all, this is the same Parliament that recently proposed that the consensual sex age be reduced from 18 to 16 years. So, are they saying that the young people are mature enough to make such sexual decisions but cannot be trusted to bet responsibly? The irony!I expect legislators to enact progressive laws and not retrogressive ones just to drive their own personal interests.The writer is Ag CEO Young People Welfare Association