Many aspirants who are not sure of getting the Jubilee Party ticket have opted for small parties that are acceptable in their areas. Hopefuls, mainly from Central, are trooping into DP and PNU, where they are being promised direct nominations. Some of those who have already joined other parties are today expected to tell Deputy President William Ruto that they do not trust that the Jubilee primaries will be free and fair.***** Still on matters nominations, a senior Jubilee official has been using his position to demand sexual favours from young aspirants interested in getting nominated to the county assemblies. The man has a pimp, his driver, who identifies the girls and delivers them to him at a hotel in Kasarani. Without shame, the man offers to get the girls nominated - but only if they sleep with him!***** Top Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims and Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya have become a laughing stock among the Muslim community, given their political positions on various unfolding national issues. The officials, who have been in office for decades and have resisted and frustrated any attempts to have elections as stipulated in their constitutions, are said to be only vocal during election year to remain relevant and catch politicians&rsquo; attention. In-between, they remain quiet on issues that afflict the community they are supposed to serve.***** AS the rush to acquire degrees continues ahead of the General Election, word on the street has it two or more legislators might not have KCSE certificates for failing to do form four exams. Whereas Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i has warned of a crackdown on universities that dish out degrees as liberally as confetti, Corridors of Power will be looking forward to see whether the IEBC publishes the documents presented by aspirants for public scrutiny. Since candidates will be seeking public office, they should accept public scrutiny.***** A senior ODM member from Kisii is an unhappy man. His attempts to seek party leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s help in setting up a meeting with Governor James Ongwae over alleged corruption allegations have flopped several times. The MP, who is in a wobbly relationship with Orange House at the moment, claims the county chief has denied him an audience to get clarification on a number of development issues. He was overheard complaining that the Cord leader dismissed him, insisting Cord governors are doing an excellent job and MPs need to work with them.