The Labour court&nbsp;has suspended the one month jail sentence handed to doctors to allow them to negotiate and call off their 53-day strike.Justice Hellen Wasilwa suspended the sentence by five days in a ruling on Thursday. "I will take time and review the orders and I will suspend the orders for [the period] which will expire on January 31," said Wasilwa. She said parties will be allowed to lay down their grievances on that day."The court has wide discretion and this is a matter of public&nbsp;interest. For the last 10 years I&nbsp;have&nbsp;not sent anybody to jail but the role of the court is to give a solution," she said. Striking doctors wait outside Milimani law courts during a hearing on their one-month jail sentence over a prolonged strike and their 2013 CBA, January 26, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYU Doctors' union officials marched to the court ahead of the ruling. Some filled the court while others waited outside. Wasilwa had given KMPDU bosses up to today to end their strike&nbsp; or go to prison for one month.&nbsp; But the medics said this was a price they were willing to pay in their quest for a 300 per cent pay rise and better working conditions, in line with their 2013 CBA. But on Wednesday, they filed a court application for their impending jail sentence to be suspended for an additional two weeks. Through secretary general Ouma Oluga, the medics said they needed more time to fully comply with Wasilwa's directions. Striking doctors gathered at Railways Club in Nairobi following Justice Hellen Wasilwa's suspension of their one-month jail sentence, January 26, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYUKMPDU officials facing jail are Oluga, union chair Samuel Oroko, and deputy secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda. Others are vice chair Titus Ondoro, treasurer Daisy Korir, assistant treasurer Evelyn Chege and Allan Ochanji.Read:&nbsp;KMPDU team not the first to face jail termWorking conditions subject to review include job structures, criteria for promotions and the under-staffing of medical professionals in government hospitals. Doctors have also accused the government of failing to stock public hospitals with basic medicines and supplies of items such as gloves. Talks have failed and Health CS Cleopa Mailu threw in the towel, but the doctors said an&nbsp;amicable solution will have been reached by the end of the two weeks Read:&nbsp;Doctors begin 'longest strike in history' over 2013 CBA agreementAlso read:&nbsp; Government fails to avert health workers' strikeStriking doctors gathered at Railways Club in Nairobi following Justice Hellen Wasilwa's suspension of their one-month jail sentence, January 26, 2017. /COLLINS KWEYUThe medics went on strike on December 5 seeking to have the government implement the contentious CBA.KMPDU took the CBA to court for registration last year, but justice Monica Mbaru ruled that the union had to negotiate a new one with the Health ministry, Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the counties.Counties now employ nearly 90 per cent of doctors but were not involved in the 2013 CBA.