The national government and governors will meet for the first time today to try and resolve the ongoing doctors strike, which has entered the 36th day. However, the state said it will not implement the 2013 Collective Bargaining Agreement, because it was nullified by the Labour Court in October last year.&ldquo;Doctors should not expect the implementation of the CBA as it is at the moment, because it was not registered. It lacked input from the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Matters of salaries cannot really be agreed without the input of the SRC,&rdquo; State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said.He said the government is hopeful today&rsquo;s meeting will end the strike.Health CS Cleopa Mailu said today&rsquo;s meeting in Nairobi will consider the terms of recruiting new doctors who might include retirees and foreign specialists. This will be the first joint meeting by the two levels of government since the medics went on strike on December 5 last year. &ldquo;We will unveil strategies to resume services in all facilities. There will also be a referral mechanism for services that are not available in particular counties,&rdquo; Mailu said. The governors will also prepare a recognition agreement with the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union. &ldquo;We have only been negotiating with doctors out of good faith. We have no recognition agreement with the union or any legally enforceable CBA,&rdquo; Council of Governors chief executive Jacqueline Mogeni said. County governments hire 80 per cent of doctors in Kenya.The contentious doctors CBA was nullified by the Labour Relations Court in October 2016 because it was only signed by the Ministry of Health. Justice Monica Mbaru gave the parties 90 days to negotiate a new CBA. &ldquo;To register that will bear no fruit, as the health function is devolved and majority of the claimant members or potential members are in the counties,&rdquo; she ruled. The doctors called their strike only two months after the ruling and negotiations stalled. Last month, the Attorney General got court orders to uphold the nullification of the old CBA until a new one is negotiated. Last week, the striking medics rejected the government&rsquo;s offer of a 40 per cent pay increase. This would raise the salary of an intern from Sh126,000 to Sh196,000.The government also offered a new doctors&rsquo; risk allowance at a flat rate of Sh10,000 per month.