The SGR passenger coaches have soft and hard seats, two luggage car units, a generator car and a track inspection unit. The carriages have comfortable provisions including air conditioning, Wi-Fi and social amenities. Kenya Railways Corporation managing director Atanas Maina on Sunday opened one of the 32 coaches for viewing by journalists. The country expects to receive 56 from China Roads and Bridges Corporation - the contractor of the Sh327 billion Standard Gauge Railway line.During an inspection of the coaches at Miritini SGR station, Maina said five for passengers will operate between Nairobi-Mombasa line on a daily basis. The carriages, which will have the first and economy class, are expected to ease the movement of people between the two cities. "The first class will have a capacity of 72 passengers while the economy class will carry 118 people," said the MD.A Kitchenette inside one of the SGR passenger coaches. /ELKANA JACOBMaina hinted that the fares for the trains will be slightly higher than those of buses plying the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. KRC has appointed a consultancy firm to evaluate the fares following a study of fuel prices and other emerging issues. "Desirable rates will be arrived at in consultation with other stakeholders in the transport industry," he said.Railway tracks at one of the SGR sub-stations which is under construction in Mombasa. /ELKANA JACOBThe 32 coaches were part of the second batch received on Saturday at the port of Mombasa by the KRC officials. Forty three freight, five passenger and eight shunting carriages will be operating on the railway line. It is expected that all 56 of them will have been received by May. Freight locomotives, which are 9,000 litre diesel-powered, have an overall length of 220 metres and can move at a top speed of 100 kilometres per hour. Pasenger locomotives are 6,000 litre diesel-powered, can run at a top speed of 158 kilometres per hour and are said to be good for the East African terrain. &ldquo;Their delivery will give us more time to test the engines and the line as we prepare for commissioning," said Maina.Some of the hard seats in the economy class of the SGR passenger coaches. /ELKANA JACOB