Diplomatic Police are flagging down, harassing and extorting from women motorists in Parklands, residents have complained.They said officers are using a Diplomatic Police car for daytime patrols in areas they are not supposed to be stationed in. They want the officers removed from Parklands area.Head of the Diplomatic Police Ambrose Mwawaka urged residents to report rogue officers so they can be investigated.A resident wrote a protest letter to the Star saying, "We residents of Parklands are now fed up with this daylight harassment and extortion of mostly Asian lady drivers along 2nd Parklands Avenue in Nairobi. The vehicle belongs to the Kenya police "Diplomatic Police". They park randomly at different times of the day along 2nd Parklands Avenue/ 1st Parklands Avenue / Peponi Road and they flag down female motorists (soft targets)."The resident added, "They will then proceed to ask for all documents, pretend to inspect the vehicle and look for any tiny fault in an effort to extort some cash. A friend's sister even had to M-Pesa cash last week as she had no money with her in the car."Residents urged Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to order the police out of Parklands since there is no embassy on 2nd Parklands Avenue.Mwawaka told the Star he took up the matter after it was posted on social media."I carried out investigations and summoned the driver who was caught on camera. However, it's sad that no one has come to complain. The officer alleges that he flagged down the motorist and advised her not to talk on phone while driving," he said.Mwawaka said police need to hear the complainant's version of the incident."Justice will not be served if the complainant doesn&rsquo;t come. I advise that the lady who sent M-Pesa can come to my office or visit the IPOA and the NPSC offices and make a complaint. There will be no victimisation," he said.Mwawaka added he is aware of rogue officers within the department.He said an Indian man has complained of harassment and he interdicted the officers who harassed the man."We cannot defend rogue and wayward officers. If they are rotten, they have to leave the service. It's shameful for the police to harass motorists and I know some of these officers have no sense of guilt and conscience. They are inhumane and shameless. Please report them so that we take action," Mwawaka said.