The government has enough food to feed three million starving Kenyans in 19 drought-stricken counties up to June, but may be forced to import grains thereafter.Agriculture CS Willy Bett yesterday said there are 21 million 90kg maize bags and almost an equal amount of rice and beans.However, if there are no rains between now and June, the government will be forced to outsource food for the starving population, he siad. Bett said there was a high post-harvest loss and wastage of food. A third of food is lost after harvest due to poor storage, he said. "Post harvest is critical. It is an issue which should not be left to the government. We have to employ all strategies to bring in the private sector and institutions of higher learning to ensure we reduce the loss and wastage," Bett said."You only need to go to Wakulima Market to see the loss. You will see cars trampling on food; it is really a serious problem. We are the biggest victims of the post-harvest loses. If we continue losing 30 per cent, how then are we going to feed our people?"Bett said addressing post-harvest food handling is a critical issue that can help Kenya become self sufficient in food provision.The CS said the government is developing initiatives to combat the post-harvest food loss and wastage. "Human livelihoods and human endeavour is centred on whether you are able to feed yourself. Any progress of any country is centred on first and foremost feeding yourself," Bett said."You cannot undertake anything if the stomach is empty," he added.Bett spoke during the launch of first Africa Postharvest Congress and Exhibition at Norfolk Hotel in Nairobi.The forum is organised to identify multi-stakeholder strategies and policy interventions to raise awareness on food losses and waste through data and information sharing.The stakeholders will identify and disseminate effective and appropriate technologies and practices for reduction of wastage.They will also develop a database of post-harvest technologies and innovations with potential to reduce food losses in various value chains.Bett said the government is encouraging technology and to enhance food safety by ensuring existing technologies reach the farmers fast and efficiently. "We are drawing our energies from global initiatives and I can tell you we have strategies to combat this menace of post-harvest loss because it is not only depriving our citizens of much needed extra income, but also depriving the country of revenues in terms exports," he said.