Having launched Jubilee Party electronic membership cards only last week, suggesting that in coming nominations, party members should use IDs and not smart cards to vote might seem like too late. Yet everything must be done to popularize the party, President Uhuru and other leaders.Right now Jubilee Party has millions of supporters all over the country who must acquire party smart cards before they can use them to vote in the nominations. But between now and nominations, will Jubilee Party have time enoughto sell and activate its smart cards for millions of its supporters? Probably not, given shortage of time and IEBC registration of voters&rsquo; exercise that millions of Jubilee supporters must also engage in to ensure President Uhuru wins the coming General Elections. Though Jubilee Party wants to use electronic cards to ensure its nominations are rigging-free and make billions, nominations must also be easiest and least expensive for everybody. This was the logic of Jubilee party that in General Elections, besides using advanced technology to avoid rigging, voting also needed back up to guarantee, nobody failed to vote when voting technology failed. Though smart cards raise the status of the party, their instant adoption and use by party&rsquo;s ordinary and poor members could not be guaranteed due to cultural and economic limitations. To begin with, though its best for party members to buy membership cards in order to own the party, members will leave leaders and aspirants to buy and give cards to them free. In turn, this will impose a crushing burden on aspirants. To avoid this burden on aspirants, the party could avoid immediate use of smart cards for the coming nominations and instead use IDs to vote and subsequently take time to educate and persuade members to buy the smart cards when the burden could be shared across the board. As it is, when aspirants buy membership cards to give to members, followers, party supporters and potential voters will not pay for them, leaving aspirants to shoulder the burden of their purchase alone. Subsequently, when aspirants get elected, they will focus not on serving people but recouping costs such as this. More importantly, when aspirants buy membership cards and give them to people, members will assume they are given these cards to elect only aspirants who buy and give them cards. Yet, the only way to avoid this misconception that smart cards are only for electing those who have bought them, is having only the party and not aspirants sell membership cards to people. The party should clarify confusion that cards are given only to elect those who buy them, in the same way that President Uhuru cleared the confusion that persons who had been appointed as coordinators of his presidential campaign were more equal than other candidates vying for various electoral seats by putting every aspirant in charge of his own presidential campaign. Regarding membership cards being used to vote for only one aspirant who bought them, again, only the party and no aspirant should sell party membership cards and give them to people. Further, why should an aspirant buy cards that can be used to elect not just him but five other persons who will be voted for but will not share the cost of buying them? Though the party has given 2,000 shillings as a minimum of money that an aspirant may buy cards for and 500,000 shillings as the maximum that an aspirant may buy cards for, the truth is, in a nomination, in a situation where people have been made to believe the buyer of the card should be elected, the maximum person has a head start over the minimum person which is a form of systemic rigging. It is also true that if I give anyone a membership card, I will do everything to persuade him to vote for me and not someone else which is also rigging. For lack of time to educate people that membership cards are not for electing those who bought them only, only if the party sells membership cards can ensure equality and fairness of the nomination process. If the party does not assume the responsibility of selling membership cards in equality, people should use IDs or elector&rsquo;s cards when they vote in nominations. Misuse of party smart cards in nominations and transfer of voters from one constituency to another to vote in nominations should be discouraged because, ultimately, if the person for whom voters were transferred to vote loses nomination and interest to transport transferred voters back to vote in their new constituency and cannot vote in their own old constituency, they will not be able to vote for the president or any other candidate. This way President Uhuru could lose re-election because of the greed of some reckless aspirant.