The Kasarani Indoor Arena has a significant footing in Kenya's political history but mostly for all the wrong reasons. This has earned it such names as "Kichinjio" (slaughterhouse) and &ldquo;Kisirani&rdquo; (bad omen) as it has ended up halting or destroying some political careers.On March 18, 2002, Vice President George Saitoti was confident he would be in the Kanu line up to be the party flagbearer as they prepared for the short-lived merger with Raila Odinga's NDP. Raila also saw this as his opportunity to become President in the December 2002 elections.But President Daniel Moi had other ideas, and to the surprise of the two politicians, political greenhorn, Uhuru Kenyatta, was Moi's choice as successor. It was a major political heartbreak for Saitoti and Raila, who went on to team up with opposition leaders to eventually deny Uhuru the presidency. The late JJ Kamotho was another Kanu hawk who suffered a political setback at Kasarani, when his powerful position of secretary general was given to Raila.And a week ago, we saw Kiambu politics attempt to play out during the launch of the Jubilee smart card when differences between Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu and Governor William Kabogo played out firsthand.Waititu attempted to use Arena as a &ldquo;kichinjio&rdquo;, in his ambitious attempt to run against Governor Kabogo in the August 8 polls. Kiambu residents, who were watching keenly, noted a significant difference between the two. One was a clear opportunist and crowd mover while the governor emerged as a 'statesman and a national leader' interested in more than just his reelection.The Kasarani event will be remembered as one that sealed the deal for Kabogo because he refused to engage in a the manner his rival did. He played mature politics. Many actually remember what the governor said but not what Waititu was trying say in his rowdy attitude.But even beyond this, Kabogo is loved by the people of Kiambu because of development across the county. The number of roads that have been rehabilitated are many. There is easier access to water and more agriculture projects. And to ensure no one is left behind, Kabogo has enhanced the county bursary fund and the Biashara Fund for youth, women and persons living with disability.The distribution of generators and water tanks to women groups involved in agribusiness, the rehabilitation of cultural and tourism centers, the construction of local markets, bodaboda and jua kali shades have all aided in helping the people of Kiambu.The county government has trained and issued certificates to over 2000 youths on technical skills such as plumbing, masonry, domestic electrical Installations and carpentry among others. These are individuals who can not only work in Kiambu but can even operate in neighboring counties and make their lives better.Kiambu residents have seen the developments, believe in their Governor and are keen for the started projects to be completed. Let's not elect opportunists without transformative agendas that are only focused on their stomachs.(The writer is a Limuru resident)