Africa&rsquo;s youths represent an opportunity and a challenge. Forty-one per cent of Africa&rsquo;s population is below the age of 15. By 2035, more people will reach working age &mdash;15-64 years &mdash; on the continent than the rest of the world combined. This so-called &lsquo;demographic dividend&rsquo; is a massive opportunity for enhanced productivity and economic growth. However, it also represents challenges to societal progress and stability, as marginalised youths &mdash; politically, economically or socially &mdash; can place more pressure on already strained resources, and become vulnerable to extremism and crime. Cities such as Lagos are currently experiencing the strains of abundant but underemployed youth, as population growths outpaces the rise in economic opportunities.Unemployment is holding back the potential of Africa&rsquo;s youth, and requires us to look beyond expanding access to education. Continuing youth unemployment, which is estimated at 50 per cent across the continent, is among the greatest challenges facing us. To date, many countries have tried to address this challenge by expanding access to education. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that we must attend not only to the quantity of our education but also to its relevance to employers. Across Africa, employers complain that school and university leavers lack the skills they need most &mdash; soft skills, in particular &mdash; while students find themselves disappointed and angry when years of often painful investment in and sacrifice for their education leave them without gainful employment. We must complement existing educational investment with an ecosystem of matching programmes that work directly with employers to identify their needs and upskill youth to meet and exceed them &mdash; particularly in sectors with the potential to employ large numbers of youth, such as ICT.Moreover, we must do more to understand the challenges youths face when engaging in entrepreneurship, and help grow the small businesses that account for a large proportion of job creation on the continent &mdash; adding just one job to 15 per cent of South Africa&rsquo;s existing SMEs, for example, could lower unemployment by over four percentage points. Not every young person should be an entrepreneur, but we should recognise and celebrate those that are building homegrown businesses that strengthen the resilience of their families, communities and countries. Beyond economics, we must attend to questions of identity and belonging to help youths adapt to a changing continent. Africa is both the most rural and most rapidly urbanising continent. As youths continue to move to rapidly changing cities and towns, where established hierarchies and traditions are being called into question, they will seek new ways of belonging and making sense of themselves. Especially when paired with economic marginalisation, this can leave them vulnerable to damaging ideologies such as violent extremism that offer a sense of community and identity. There is an urgent need to articulate and communicate an exciting narrative on what it means to be young and African in the 21st Century, and to recapture the magic of a Pan-African identity that swept the continent in the 1950s and 60s, and energised the Founding Fathers and Mothers of organisations such as the African Union.These challenges are complex but solvable, and we must not delay in addressing them. &lsquo;The youth are our future&rsquo;, the refrain often goes, but we must not forget they are also a large part of our present. Ambassador Amina Mohamed is Kenya's Foreign Affairs minister currently running for the African Union Commission chairmanship.