KANU is as old as independent Kenya and it has refused to get out of the political stage like many parties after it. Although a pale shadow of its former self, it has lately kept the country guessing issuing incomprehensibly vague statements on its political stand. KANU like other Kenyan political parties, is special purpose vessel devoid of any political philosophy, in this case, it is Gideon Moi&rsquo;s political boat to both Kalenjin and national leadership. Little wonder the sibling rivalry and cat fight between him and Deputy President William Ruto which recently played out during the burial of erstwhile KANU strong man and fixer late Mark Too. Like biblical Jacob, William Ruto acquired the Kalenjin mantle for a song. Gideon Moi believes this is his birthright- he is now putting the genie back in the bottle. The machievellian William Ruto is well ahead of Prince Gideon Moi who hitherto could only ride a polo pony and and not brandish a sword. While William Ruto and Jubilee still hold a firm grip over the counties in the Kalenjin areas, Gideon Moi&rsquo;s KANU is making significant inroads into Baringo and West Pokot counties while Governor Isaac Rutto&rsquo;s Chama Cha Mashinani is penetrating Bomet and Kericho counties. After the reign of President Moi, the ruthlessly organized and efficient KANU was no more. The fortunes of the independent party dwindled and like a chihuahua, it refuses to grow beyond 2.7 kgs, even if overfed. While it has now mandated Gideon to pursue negotiations with both NASA and Jubilee, he is indecisive. The Kalenjin who heckeld Rito in Narok want direction but Gideon peddles nonsense of a political narrative that KANU supports the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta but not William Ruto making one question what is smoked at KANU Head Quarters. How is it possible to support a presidential candidate and not the running mate? In its midst Gideon engineered confusion, Secretary General Nick Salat is firmely in opposition NASA electoral behemoth namd that Jubilee administration is a raw deal. In the Senate debate on controversial Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2016, Gideon spoke against the bill but voted for the it while his trusted lieutenant West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo voted against. KANU&rsquo;s political position is innumerable shades of gray. Perhaps Gideon is sitting by the fire side with his old man, the professor of politics taking notes how to obfuscate the public more. Even with the blowing hot and cold, one thing is clear, KANU has no room in Jubilee unless it is forcing itself into it. The reason why it is unwelcome in Jubilee is simple; two verile bulls cannot stay in the same kraal. Jubilee is more of William Ruto than Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto and Gideon are fighting two serious political battles - Kalenjin supremacy and 2022 presidency. How the cockerel party expects a red carpet treatment into Jubilee except for slaughter is amazing. Should Uhuru serve a second term, he will not have much sway in his Mt Kenya stronghold although he has publicly anointed Ruto for 2022. The ties between the Moi and Kenyatta families run deep and the question is who is betraying who over the Uhuru succession/ To jumpstart itself, KANU has two options- field its own presidential candidate or join NASA as one of the principals, after all it supported Musalia Mudavadi in 2013 Amani Coalition and now Mudavadi is the architect of NASA and possible presidential candidate. Gideon must make a disruptive move, betray the establishment and sacrifice some friendships. Indeed, Uhuruto is a product of disruption. In 2005, Uhuru and William Ruto joined then then orange team to oppose the &ldquo;Wako Draft&rdquo; in a referendum. The entire Mount Kenya leadership stood by President Kibaki&rsquo;s &ldquo;YES&rdquo; team but Uhuru read from different script. The turncoat in him only supported Kibaki in 2007 to inherit the Kikuyu mantle. Uhuru even did the unthinkable, abandoning KANU, his father&rsquo;s party, Gideon and Moi senior. Uhuru shade-off &ldquo;Moi Project&rdquo; label. Similarly Ruto forcefully took over Kalenjin leadership from the Moi family by abandoning KANU in 2007 to support Raila Odinga&rsquo;s Orange Democratic Movement Party against Moi&rsquo;s counsel. Ruto defied his political mentor for a path of his own bringing to an end the Moi political dynasty which Gideon is trying to piece together. Only that he doesn&rsquo;t know how. For KANU and its party leader to be taken serious in political scheme of things, it must perform an outstanding miracle to upset the 2017 politics. Gideon should also disprove the perception that he is just another spoilt daddy&rsquo;s boy.