The High Court yesterday extended orders barring the planned lecturers&rsquo; strike in the hope that a deal would be reached. But in a statement later, two lecturers&rsquo; unions said they will proceed with the strike from today.University Academic Staff Union national chairman Muga K&rsquo;olale said the unions have not received a counter-offer from the government since March last year. &ldquo;The respective Uasu chapters will launch the strike and demonstrations tomorrow [today],&rdquo; he said. The unions said they presented their CBA proposal to the Inter-Public Universities Consultative Council Forum on March 3.It demands the least paid lecturer, currently earning Sh99,802, receive get Sh350,000. The unions want a professor, currently earning Sh211,753, to be paid Sh1.9 million per month.In a ruling, Justice Hellen Wasilwa directed the lecturers to hold talks with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, Inter-Public University Councils Consultative Forum and the Federation of Kenya Employers. &ldquo;I see goodwill to forestall the strike,&rdquo; she said.Equalising pay Uasu and the Kenya Universities Staff Union have told their members to down their tools to agitate for a salary increase.The judge heard that parties have been holding meetings and negotiations over the disputed CBA, but they have been inconclusive. However, they &ldquo;at a fairly advanced stage&rdquo;. Uasu accused the council of frustrating negotiations and failing to reveal pertinent facts to the court. &ldquo;In view of the response by the union, I will encourage parties to continue talking and negotiating,&rdquo; Wasilwa said.She directed the parties to go back to court on February 1.Last Friday Wasilwa stopped Uasu, Kusu and their members from engaging in any activity likely to disrupt learning, after the IPUCCF said the strike was unprotected.The Forum argues the move by the lecturers amounts to sabotage and will hamper ongoing negotiations and deliberations.Uasu and Kusu said the 300 per cent increment they are demanding will equalise their salaries with other lecturers across the world. They want it backdated to July 1, 2013.