One of the most valuable lessons learnt in 2016 was that committed and patriotic Kenyans are capable of catalysing change, revolutionisingoperations or systems and bringing order to chaos thanks to Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i.All Cabinet Secretaries, civil servants, parastatal heads and private sector heads now have a clear reference point. ere is no excuse for mediocrity and the President, as the country&rsquo;s CEO, ought to crack the whip on all non-performers without exception. is year has sadly started with reports of numerous road accidents resulting in horrific fatalities. Kenyans must not accept this state of aff airs to persist on a business as usual basis. The mandarins at the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure must wake up from their slumber and tackle corruption in their docket. A starting point should be the Driving Licensing Section. It is an open secret that this is one of the most corrupt departments in the country. The same malaise that affl icted the Kenya National Examinations Council now faces the driving licensing department. A person who has never sat behind a driving wheel, armed with two passport photos and as little as Sh10,000 can easily buy a valid drivinglicense complete with stamps to drive public service and heavy commercial vehicles.Driving school instructors often collude with examiners to pass even incompetent learners on their first attempt in the National Driving Test. Many of these quacks often find their way as drivers &mdash; with tragic consequences. Driver training and testing in many other jurisdictions is a very rigorous and demanding exercise. Indeed, in the UK and South Africa, learners rarely pass their driving test until after their seventh attempt. A perfunctory observation on the standards of driving in the neighbouring countries of Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda will quickly inform one that there is something awfully wrong with ours.The second port of call by our authorities is our public service vehicles owners and drivers, who have become a law unto themselves. They blatantly fl out the traffic rules and regulations with impunity. Traffic police officers, who are mandated to regulate their [matatus] operation andconduct on the roads, have become their partners, often themselves as owners of PSVs. Others easily let off traffic off enders after receiving a bribe. An obscene amount of money exchanges hands daily between them and PSV drivers in the form of bribes right under the noses of the transport ministry.Motorcycle operators and their pillion passengers popularly known as boda boda have become a terror in Nairobi and other parts of the country, often riding down the wrong side of the road. Most of these operators have received no training and cannot read or comprehend traffic signs. It is little wonder that most Government hospitals have set aside wards for victims of boda boda accidents, the majority of whom don&rsquo;t wear helmets or reflective jackets.During the festive season, there was a noticeable increase of NTSA officers and Traffic officers monitoring speed and enforcing other traffic rules. Their valiant attempts did not go unnoticed. There are, however, better and more efficient ways of managing this menace. The authorities can invest in speed cameras. A single camera in the UK believed to be the most lucrative raked in the equivalent of Sh190.5 million in just six months. A single camera on the North Circular Road in London was responsible for a third of all the speed tickets issued in the City of London. The beauty about speed cameras is that they are efficient, reducing the amount of litigation in the courts. They curb corruption and would also free NTSA officers and police offi cers to attend to other