Ali Mirza, the youngest member of Coast Pekee team, is set to make his debut as a driver on his home rally at Vipingo Mombasa Cement on January 28.Ali, who started his racing career with go karts at GP Karting Nairobi, Nakuru&rsquo;s Solai and Mombasa tracks, will drive his dad&rsquo;s Subaru GC8 which has over the years been synonymous with the Mirzas. Coast Pekee team principal Mzee Ajaz Mirza also confirmed the participation of his other two sons&mdash;Izhar (Izzy) and Adil. Adil will be navigated by Kashif Sheikh in an Evo7 while Izhar, the fastest of the Mirza family, will partner up with Kavit Dave in his Mitsubishi Evolution 9.Organisers Mombasa Motor Club (MMC) will be represented by the Pandyas-Kamlesh and Paras, Harpreet &lsquo;Hapz&rsquo; Sagoo, Yusuf Pasta of Roadtainers Racing, Cardiff-based Imran Mogul and Coast champion Naushad Kara both from Lota Motorsports.Pasta has a new navigator in Ahmed Rashid and hopes to tackle the home event with considerable speed and caution.Nairobi-based Dennis Mwenda and Job Njiru have also confirmed their participation in the championship winning Silverspread Team Meru Evolution 9.Also confirmed for the season opener are the reigning KNRC Division 3 champs, the Hai Rally Chix comprising of NatashaTundo and Chantal Young.Karan Patel, who participated in five rounds of the WRC last year will be teaming up with fomer MMC homeboy James Mwangi Harrison in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evo 10.Four-time Safari Rally winners Carl &lsquo;Flash&rsquo; Tundo and Tim Jessop will be back in their Ford Fiesta Proto. &ldquo;We are entering the Fiesta and redoing all the wiring in the car,&rdquo; said Jessop.Multiple Racing Team have confirmed two cars to be driven by the Flying Finn Tapio Laukkanen and Manvir Baryan. Laukkanen, who has swept the ground with all his opponents over the past two seasons, is yet to announce his new machine but has been linked to an Evolution.Kisumu-based Chandu Devji has also confirmed his entry.Sam Karangatha, who made his KNRC debut last year, remains doubtful for the season. &lsquo;We&rsquo;ll be preparing our vehicle and we really hope to make it to the first round in Mombasa. We are definitely working towards it and if everything works out as planned, we&rsquo;ll be there,&rdquo; said Karangatha.Reigning Division Two champion Mahesh Halai is excited to move up to the next level. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a new season and going into Division 1 is a higher notch of competition. We hope to drive sensibly to avoid breaking the car and picking up punctures.Another entrant Steve Mwangi &lsquo;Chifu&rsquo;: &ldquo;I thank God for giving me another year for rallying. There is no gainsaying though that rallying in Kenya has become so competitive considering the fact that teams are trying their hardest to upgrade to more sophisticated and fast cars. We at Andy Rally Team are taking it all in our stride and have no choice but to ensure the car is in good nick and with the right mapping ahead of the rally. I&rsquo;m hoping to tackle the full season this year as I eye the KNRC Division 1 honours. We are shopping around for a for a potential sponsor to help us realize our dream.&rdquo;