Terrorism, racism and xenophobia are a drop in the ocean of countless battles the global society is facing today. However, there is one battle that has been in existence for centuries, before any of the above mentioned problems existed: the battle of the sexes. The branches of this deep-rooted tree from the past trickle down to the present. A present where we are still battling patriarchy, equality and equity of pay among the sexes.The media is a powerful tool for generating dialogue. For instance, documentary film making. While researching this topic, I came across an Indian film called Sari Stories. Being an Indian, I could relate to it immediately. However, I don&rsquo;t need to be of any particular origin to relate to this story, because it highlights a major issue faced by society today.India, with its booming economy, its rapidly growing middle class, and Bollywood is supposed to be a global success story. However, the vast majority of Indians still live in poverty. This land forms the environ for Sari Stories.The documentary&rsquo;s main focus is the narrative of four women who have been married as children and their lives, of darkness to the light through film and reporting. Children who marry young not only have to face the harassment of their in-laws but also have to bear the assaults of their husbands. We are taken into their homes to meet their families, to witness their quarrels and to share the intimacy of their everyday life. We are given a glimpse of the reality of life in remote rural villages previously unseen by a Western audience.There are some very amusing moments when one subject decides to question her husband on camera about where he had been and why he didn&rsquo;t turn up for lunch. She keeps interviewing him until eventually he is more open with his thoughts.Sari Stories becomes a delightful watch, and extremely cathartic. This story and many alike imply that the battle of patriarchy and inequality among the sexes is indeed coming to a possible end, a slow but sure end, with steps like Sari Stories in the right direction.