Powered by Cytonn Investments Basic economics inform us that human needs are unlimited, insatiable and one has to arrange the needs in order of preference deciding which one to fulfill first.Often there is an opportunity cost, that need that the individual will forego in order to satisfy another. This is very true when it comes to choosing locations and places of residence: do you buy a cheap house, one in a community/ neighbourhood with like-minded people, or should you instead stay near your place of work, perhaps in a location with amenities and near natural green spaces? These are considerations that must be made. Some individuals choose community, others go for green spaces, while others look for proximity to place of work and amenities.This is about to change with the rise of master-planned communities. These communities provide the ideal live, work, and play environment, allowing one to achieve all the above needs in just one location.We thus demystify master-planned communities, explain their advantages to a home buyer and the government, expound on challenges developers face in executing these developments and what can be done to make it easier and cheaper to implement master-plans for developers and conclude with an outlook on master planned communities as a real estate theme. A master planned community is a well organised real estate development composed of both residential, commercial, and sometimes hospitality themes on a relatively large land parcel with allowances for natural spaces and recreation. Advantages to buyers are that these Master plan communities offer individuals buying into them several advantages including:1. An improved quality of living &ndash; Master planned communities are planned and do not spring up in an ad hoc manner like most urban centres. This ensures that amenities provided are adequate to the population that lives in these places hence there is no straining of resources which largely improves the quality of living of the people. To facilitate smooth operations, most master planners institute a code of operations that must be adhered to and limits ad hoc developments, pollution or environmental degradation greatly improving the quality of life in these developments.2. Improved infrastructure &ndash; In masterplans, the master developer provides necessary infrastructure including roads, electricity, sewerage connection, water as well as internet connections and hence the residents of such communities will have the requisite infrastructure as they move in and do not have to organise for the same. 3. Communal Lifestyle &ndash; residential precincts are often clustered groups allowing the residents in a masterplan to be part of a community guaranteeing security and allowing one to socialise as well. 4. Live, work, play environment &ndash; This is the biggest advantage accrued to residents in master planned communities as the combination of residential, commercial, recreation, and industrial zones in one master plan enables the individual to work and relax near their place of residence.Advantages to Governments Governments benefit from these expansive communities in the following ways: 1. Reducing housing deficit &ndash; Most master planned communities are large projects in hundreds of acres offering more than one thousand residential units hence have the potential to reduce the current housing deficit. In Kenya for instance the in two of the major six master plans, that is Newtown by Cytonn and Tatu City by Rendeavour residential zones if all are implemented successfully we will have an influx of 14,000 houses.2. Decongestion Cities &ndash; Master planned communities lead to migration of population and business activities from the main cities to the new cities and business districts. This leads to subsequent decongestion of cities near the location of masterplans enabling governments to plan cater for the cities amenities adequately.3. Decentralisation of industries &ndash; Master planned communities encompass industrial precincts, and industries move from the cities to these new locations mainly due to availability of cheaper increasing equality in resource and employment distribution.4. Economic growth &ndash; Master planned cities lead to increased economic activities due to creation of new residential developments, industrial parks, and business districts which increase production and revenue leading to economic growth in the country challenges facing master planned developers.Despite the numerous advantages that accrue to a country because of master planned communities, In Kenya we are only seeing the rise of a few master planned communities yet the demand for the same is high evidenced by the huge housing deficit of 200,000 houses p.a and a growing population. This is mainly because the developers of masterplans face several challenges including: 1. Tedious land acquisition processes &ndash; For large land parcels required for master planned communities the acquisition process can be tedious and cumbersome. Often communal or agricultural land needs to be transferred and both local and environmental experts may not be in favour hence slowing the acquisition processes and increasing costs. 2. Inadequate infrastructure as most master plans are located some distance from the main cities. The land often has little or no infrastructural services and thus requires heavy initial outlay of funds by the developer to kick off. If funding is not available, the implementation can significantly be delayed. 3. Skepticism in the market &ndash; Initial master-plans have not taken off resulting in scepticism in the market about the success hence slowing uptake for master-plans being undertaken. 4. High financing costs &ndash; To fund land, organisation and infrastructural provision make master planned communities. Most Master planned communities have budgets running into billions of shillings and if debt funds all can be costly 5. Inadequate skills to organise and bring it all together &ndash; As it is a relatively new concept in Kenya, there is inadequate skills in the market to facilitate the implementation of the master planned communities end to end.Given the numerous advantages that accrue to the country as a result of master planned communities, the government should work towards supporting master planned communities by provision of infrastructure, financing, land where available to make it as smooth as possible for them to be developed. There is however increased government support to master planned developments especially through infrastructural development opening areas and there is increased financing in real estate as an industry. This coupled with the fact that people are slowly embracing the concept of master planned communities, and an increase in the use of technology that allows one to work from anywhere making the world a global village will lead to an increase in master planned communities from the current five underway in Kenya. Cytonn is developing a futuristic master planned community in Athi River &ndash; Newtown. Newtown is an exceptional master planned development within the greater Nairobi Metropolis that once complete, will comprise of residential, commercial, educational, logistics, recreational and hospitality precincts. Newtown sits on approximately 1000 acres located in Athi River, Machakos County, approximately 10 km off Mombasa Road along Mutongoni Road. The development aims to provide a world class city that will creates a &lsquo;Live&rsquo;, &lsquo;Work&rsquo;, &lsquo;Play&rsquo;, &lsquo;learn&rsquo; environment while creating traction for the area.For more details visit http://cytonn.com/real-estate/newtown