As we celebrate the New Year, we must not fail to have a long-term view of where we are headed and immediate problems, crises and challenges we must resolve this year to advance, overcome and survive. To solve all our many problems which we must solve almost simultaneously, Kenya must have a lot of energy or it will collapse under the weight of the heavy burden that it now carries. Unfortunately, instead of Kenyans feeding, growing and developing the country for it to bear the burden it must carry, a few Kenyans are mercilessly bleeding the country through a level of corruption whose perpetrators seem determined to do their worst unworried whether their greed will kill the country or not. As long as corruption continues to suck the blood of the country to its knees, we will be defenceless against all its other problems that will not hesitate to swarm and collectively attack Kenya to its death. To solve all the problems that now face the country, the country&rsquo;s immunity must be protected against depletion by corruption. Should Kenya not protect itself against corruption, all the carnivores of the jungle will find her their easy and helpless prey.Immediately facing the country is the crisis of doctors&rsquo; one month old strike that is a dragon that is mercilessly killing sick poor Kenyans who are getting no treatment in public hospitals whose doctors are on strike or in private hospitals whose treatment charges they cannot afford. This strike must be immediately ended or every Kenyan family will lose somebody to it. As we embark on the New Year, if leaders care about the poor, they must end this strike or lose mandate of governance. This is not a strike like any other. With its rate of killing people, negotiations must not be broken or postponed until the deadlock is resolved and agreement reached.After doctors&rsquo; strike, the government must start thinking of how to stop on its heels, the water crisis that is looming from the drought that is predicted to last for the next few months in most parts of the country. To manage the shortage of water, all sources of water should be harnessed to ensure little water available is rationed fairly and justly and no greedy Kenyans are allowed to make billions selling water to other Kenyans. While distributing water has been commercialized, when there is scarcity, like air, water should be made available to all. Indeed when water is little, it must be treated like a matter of national security. After resolving the shortage of water, Kenyans will have the opportunity to resolve the matter of bad leadership through elections by which Kenyans will elect or re-elect good leaders and reject bad ones whether they are in power or not. There is little doubt that bad leadership is the source of all other crises that the country faces now or in the past. As the Kikuyu proverb says, &ldquo;When the leader limps, the flock does not reach the pastures.&rdquo;Since all crises must be resolved by good leaders, it is obvious that resolving the crises of bad leadership whose failure is the mother of all other crises, substitution of bad leadership with good leadership is the solution of all our other crises. Should we fail to elect good leaders and reject bad leaders, we can say goodbye to the solution of all our other problems and crises. Corruption and lack of integrity have however hampered the possibility of having free, fair and credible elections without which we can never have good leaders or be able to reject bad leaders. Yet the dream of good leadership continues to be subverted by rigging of elections that has so far proved to be the most recalcitrant foe of good leadership. Seeming like a society that is damned to the curse of corruption and self destruction by our rejection of what we know to be best for us, desperation has tempted many of us to think that maybe we can overcome rigging by bowing to the shame of asking a team of foreigners from the Commonwealth to for once manage and supervise free, fair and credible elections from which we may learn how to eschew rigging in our future elections. Or we can borrow Fred Matiang&rsquo;i from the Ministry of Education who has proved his own integrity, to manage free and fair elections and then give him back to his ministry. Year twenty-seventeen has put Kenya on crossroads. Should we resolve our pending crises, we shall have written a chapter of glory in our history or one of disaster if we should fail especially to avoid rigging elections.