More than 1,000 squatters are to move to court today to block the Monday burial of former nominated MP Mark Too on land near the Eldoret International Airport.This comes just a day after a woman, Fatuma Ramadhan Hassan, moved to court to block Too&rsquo;s burial, claiming he sired a son with her and the child is being sidelined from his father&rsquo;s burial plans. Justice Agree Muchelule will today hear the matter.The squatters, through lawyer William Arusei and chairman Benjamin Rono, said ownership of the 27,000 acres is disputed and they had a court case with the late Too over it. The squatters are members of the Sirikwa Group. They say they were given the land by President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s administration. Too had disputed the claims. He produced documents in court, indicating how he acquired the land. Too served as Lonrho East Africa chairman before the company sold off its land and exited Kenya.Arusei said a High Court ruling on the dispute is set for January 27 and they want the burial stopped until the matter is determined. He said the squatters were allocated the land, which they say was part of that owned by Lonrho East Africa.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re very sorry for the family that they have lost Too, but the matter was pending in court and we believe the burial on the disputed land will jeopardise our case,&rdquo; Arusei said.&ldquo;We have no problem if he is buried on any other land besides the one disputed. The ruling is coming up soon and both sides have to wait, instead of one party interfering with the suit.&rdquo;Rono said it is unfortunate Too died before they settled the dispute. But Too&rsquo;s family lawyer said there is no court order stopping his burial.Too collapsed at his Eldoret home and was rushed to St Luke&rsquo;s Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, on New Year&rsquo;s Eve. Burial committee chairperson Kiprop Chirchir yesterday said Too died of a heart problem known as aneurysm. He said he got a crack in his heart, which later burst, causing serious internal bleeding.Chirchir said the family will today hold a funeral service at the AIC Milimani, Nairobi, at 10am. The body will be flown to Eldoret on Sunday for burial.