I wish all the vulnerable and poor Kenyans a happy New Year.Kenya will this year have access to a Sh7.5 trillion fund from the World Bank to fight extreme poverty, by investing in economic growth, resilience and opportunities that benefit the poor. If Kenya&rsquo;s share from this fund is not stolen, the money will pull out of poverty more than one million Kenyans who depend on the Kenya National Safety Net Programme that targets the elderly, orphans and vulnerable children, and persons living with disabilities.A devastating drought that nobody pays attention to has ravaged 1.3 million Kenyans in areas classified as &lsquo;food insecure&rsquo; since last year. Others have been driven into extreme poverty by the million low market prices of livestock, tea, maize and sugarcane produce. You&rsquo;ve a country that isn&rsquo;t the Nineveh President Uhuru Kenyatta says is surging in economic growth.This even if the growth is a paltry 5.7 per cent. His data is not factual. Companies are either closing shop or retrenching, thus adding to skyrocketing unemployment. The cost of living is not only restrictive but has also led to unsustainable dependency. This has contributed to more poverty. Given the prevailing corruption, I&rsquo;m not certain President Uhuru Kenyatta is not aware he&rsquo;s presiding over a small wealthy oligarchy at the expense of the poor.The 2004 report of the Population Studies and Research Institute of the University of Nairobi, which the President should read, says, &ldquo;The dependency ratio of the Kenyan population will remain high with just a slight decline of five per cent from 76 per cent in 2005 to 71 per cent in 2090 at stability. A youthful age structure poses a greater challenge to the government and presents such high dependency ratios they enslave the working few to support ingthe rest of the population. The government is forced to invest in consumer projects such as education, food security, health, housing and general infrastructure rather than in income generating projects such as industries&rdquo;. A corruption infected Kenya isn&rsquo;t something to write home about this year. It&rsquo;ll not trend because it&rsquo;s the norm. But it&rsquo;s crazy corruption to spend over Sh80 billion in four years in cash transfer to the poor, without corresponding reduction in poverty. It should shock government impact assessors that their poverty reduction of 13 per cent is just guesswork. Instead, there are mounting complaints that government officers and graft cartels have infiltrated the cash transfer system so much that it&rsquo;s clogged against the intended recipients. The Ministry of Labour, through the department of Social Protection, under which the Safety Net Programme is domiciled, estimates that the cash transfer system of Sh2,000 a month benefits upwards of one million needy cases. That translates into Sh2 billion a month and Sh24 billion a year pocket change for the corrupt. These billions are less cost of money, administration and pilferage.It must be this opaqueness that prompted ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to ask for a forensic audit of the cash transfer that women in Kilifi county complained they weren&rsquo;t receiving, despite being registered beneficiaries. They aren&rsquo;t the only ones. In the villages, orphans and people living with disabilities aren&rsquo;t getting the stipend, let alone know the status of the health insurance due to them.Officials register fake beneficiaries. These ghost recipients are gouging out millions in the name of the poor because they have infiltrated the payment provider banks with fake identities. The multiplier effect is an economy that is not reducing poverty but is busy stealing from the poor and ends up increasing the dependency demographics to unsustainable levels. It used to be that children grew up in school and left to get jobs as their parents retired. Not anymore. Aside from the painful extended family dependency, adult children have made sleepovers into permanent residences for lack of employment. Homesteads are ending up with graves of preventable early deaths and emaciated siblings waiting for death.