Water CS Eugene Wamalwa is said to be torn on whether to run for governor in Nairobi or in Trans Nzoia.Sources close to the CS say he met close allies at his Mlimani home in Kitale on New Year&rsquo;s eve. The meeting, however, failed to help the CS decide whether to run in Nairobi or in Trans Nzoia. &ldquo;The long day meeting did not bear fruit. Those who supported the idea of him changing base to Nairobi had equally strong defense like those who wanted him to relocate to Trans Nzoia,&rdquo; the sources say.Speaking to the Star yesterday on the phone, Wamalwa&rsquo;s personal assistant Kizito Temba confirmed the meeting took place. &ldquo;We had the meeting and most of his supporters were torn between Nairobi and Trans Nzoia. The CS has not yet decided whether to run for governor in Nairobi or Trans Nzoia or remain as a CS,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The CS has up to February 15 to decide if he will continue being a CS or go for a political seat.&rdquo; A close ally of Wamalwa and former Bungoma county council chairman Julius Bakasa said those pushing the CS to run for the Trans Nzoia top job said the Nairobi governor seat is hard to get. &ldquo;We told the CS that he should not make the mistake he committed last time. Despite the assurance from the President, getting the Nairobi governor&rsquo;s seat is not a walk in the park,&rdquo; he said.Bakasa said if Wamalwa vies in Trans Nzoia, he will have time to sell the Jubilee agenda in both Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties &ldquo;The deal is sealed. In fact, we are going to have a rally on February 25 in Kitale town to launch Wamalwa&rsquo;s candidature,&rdquo; he said. Those opposed to his running in Trans Nzoia say aspirant Kakai Bisau, who is seeking the Jubilee ticket, has invested too much in the campaigns and it will be betrayal by Eugene to come back for the seat.MCAs allied to the Jubilee Party in Trans Nzoia are said to have warned against plans by Wamalwa to shift back his political base to Trans Nzoia. Matumbei MCA Philip Sakong said the declaration by Wamalwa that he might run for Trans Nzoia governor is causing confusion and is likely to cost Jubilee the seat in the county.