The recent Naivasha accident has revealed many things not known to many about men and women. The idea that the DNA of mother and child is more precise in determining individuals may have been an intriguing thing to men or fathers in the form of their representation in their biological offspring. This is considering that, socially it has always been said that only the mother of the child who knows the actually father.ACCURACY OF MOTHER'S DNAIt is the mother&rsquo;s DNA that can identify offspring with greater precision. This may further throw men off the spin. Should men be worried? First, let us see why mother&rsquo;s DNA helps identify offspring more accurately.One is the fact that inheritance require two types of DNA. In animals there are two sources of DNA, the nucleus DNA and the mitochondrion DNA (mtDNA).For nucleus DNA, the mother contributes 50 per cent and the father 50 per cent. More so for girls since the 23rd chromosome is an X from the father and another X from the mother.But for boys, the mother may have an upper hand because the father contributes Y-chromosome, which is quite smaller in the number of genes it carries.It is also smaller in size than the X chromosome. Another win for mothers is that boys carry more genetic material in 23rd chromosome coming from the mothers than from the fathers.The second factor is the mitochondrion DNA and the loss of the sperm tail at fertilisation.Mitochondrion of a cell contains DNA that can be inherited from the parents to the child.Unfortunately, a huge part of the sperm tail is excluded during the fusion of the sperm and the egg. This is the case with many mammals whose male gamete has a tail.Why are Mitochondrion at the tail? Remember that the sperm have to labour to find the egg and not the other way round. Thus, it uses the tail to propel to it where the egg is located and thus requires a lot of energy.Mitochondrion produce the badly needed energy to accomplish the task. This necessities the need to have most Mitochondrion in sperm to be located within the tail. Since a sizeable part of the mitochondrion tail is left out during fertilisation so is the mitochondrion DNA and hence mitochondrion inheritance.FURTHER ANALYSISLet's look at this theory further.According to studies since 1930s, it is believed that, at fertilisation, it is mainly the head and only a small portion of mitochondrion tail that find their way into the egg.The larger part of the tail is left out. Additionally, the sperm takes several weeks to form and mature within the male tract before ejaculation. The journey from formation to ejaculation and final travel to the fallopian tube is long.The mitochondrion is required to provide a huge amount of energy and this may well lead to overworking and mtDNA degradation. On the other hand, the egg mitochondrion is intact.Inheritance is a combination of nucleus DNA (nuclear effects) and mitochondrion DNA (cytoplasmic effects). The simplest implication is that maternal contribution to inheritance is larger than paternal one. Therefore, cytoplasmic male genetic material is diluted beyond the limits of detection using conventional analysis methods.The third reason mothers have an upper hand is because of few mitochondrion copy number in sperm.Have you ever known that most mitochondrion in the typical mammalian sperm are within the mid-piece and contain about 70 mitochondria per sperm cell? The funny thing is that each mitochondrion in the sperm has one copy of mtDNA.On the other hand the egg (oocyte) contains around 100,000 to 100,000,000 mitochondria each, with multiple copies of mtDNA. Therefore, the effects due mtDNA is more from the mother than the father. What is the implication of all this to the child?The offspring will have more of mitochondrion DNA from mother compared to the father. Therefore, in complicated cases like the Naivasha accident, identification is based on mitochondrion DNA for more effectiveness. In such cases, the material needed for identification is that of the victim and the presumed claimant mother(s). This gives a better precision than the claimant dads.Even with all this, the male flock should not feel over threatened. The reason is that, even with all this, you need the paternal DNA to determine who is the father of the child.Besides, men carry one small but powerful genetic material, the Y-chromosome, which determines the sex of the child.Dr. Nthakanio, a leading geneticist, is a senior lecturer at the University of Embu and the chairman of Agricultural Resource Management.