Aspirants in Nyanza and Western have asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to keep off the party nominations next month. They said Raila should ensure that ODM top officials, who claim to be closer to him, do not impose candidates on the voters. Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma said free and fair nominations will ensure unity among ODM aspirants. Last week, the governor said credible nominations will prevent the chaos and wrangles witnessed in 2013. Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga also supported credible primaries, saying ODM top leaders must be neutral. Ruth wants to unseat Ranguma. Early this month, she said candidates cannot waste time and money on campaigns and then someone else is imposed on the electorate. Ruth accused ODM national chairman John Mbadi of being partisan. “As the party chairman, he should be neutral and focus on having credible polls that will be acceptable countrywide,” she said. Ruth differed with Raila for meeting governors who allegedly went to seek direct tickets. “Let the governors face the people like other aspirants. Nobody should get a direct ticket,” she said. Aspirants also fear that some governors will impose candidates seeking other positions in their counties. On Tuesday, MP aspirants Silvance Osoro (South Mugirango) and Anthony Kibagendi (Kitutu Chache South) accused ODM leaders of plans to favour specific candidates. Kibagendi accused Kisii Governor James Ongwae of planning to impose candidates on voters for the nine constituencies and 44 wards. Osoro said shambolic nominations will lead to voter apathy. But Mbadi has dismissed the allegations and challenged those with evidence to present it. Last week, he said ODM will support those who will be elected during the primaries “We cannot afford to lose seats again,” Mbadi said in Migori county. Kisumu governor aspirant Hezron McObewa said nominations should not be pegged on how close one is to Raila, but on leadership and development record. Kisumu Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o, a close ally of Raila, supported free and fair nominations. He wants to unseat Ranguma. Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and Siaya governor aspirant William Oduol also urged the party to conduct free and fair primaries. Gumbo also wants to become Siaya governor. “Credible nominations are important for our presidency ambition to succeed,” Gumbo said. Homa Bay governor aspirants Sam Wakiaga and Enosh Bolo said ODM members and candidates should be treated equally. “Nobody should claim to be special. We are all children of the party leader,” Bolo said. Migori Governor Okoth Obado said credible nominations will help consolidate voters. Busia businessman Steve Omondi said credible primaries will create a sense of trust among ODM members and make the party stronger and popular. “We only need to consolidate our votes by holding nominations reflecting the desires of the people,” he said on Monday. Last year, Raila assured supporters he will not impose any candidates on voters during the nominations. He said he will work with candidates elected by the people as he moved to consolidate votes ahead of the August polls. He told off those waiting to be endorsed to competitively fight for the tickets, noting that shambolic nominations have in the past cost the party in its strongholds.