IEBC chairman nominee Wafula Chebukati&rsquo;s association with ODM came back to haunt him yesterday as he faced tough questions from a parliamentary panel.Chebukati ran for Saboti MP on the ODM ticket in the December 27, 2007, general election, but lost to Eugene Wamalwa of PNU.He was hard-pressed to convince the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, chaired by Ainabkoi MP Samuel Chepkong&rsquo;a, that his links with opposition chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s party will not influence his duties.Chebukati told the committee he resigned as an ODM life member a month before he applied for the job. He said he had been a dormant member. &ldquo;I returned my life membership certificate to the party as a formality,&rdquo; Chebukati told the team at County Hall.He said he has never participated in party activities or sought any political position for the past nine years.The justice committee is holding approval hearings for the chairperson and six commissioners picked to head the electoral body.&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never talked to Raila nor met him since 2007, when he came with members of the ODM summit to campaign for me,&rdquo; Chebukati told MPs when asked about his relationship with the opposition chief.He said Deputy President William Ruto, who was then a member of the ODM Pentagon, the party&rsquo;s top decision-making organ, was among the luminaries who campaigned for him in 2007.&ldquo;I lost the election and went back to my legal practice. The people of Kiminini constituency, where I come from, can attest to the fact that I have never engaged myself in any politics,&rdquo; Chebukati said.The committee asked him why he did not apply when the selection panel first advertised the vacancies. It wanted to know whether Chebukati is being pushed by some political operatives hell-bent on swaying the outcome of the August 8 election. My interest is to serve&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t apply during the first instance, but when the position was re-advertised, I thought this was the right time to put in my papers to serve my country. I didn&rsquo;t consult anybody or talk to anyone before I applied for this job,&rdquo; Chebukati said.The nominee told the committee he is not a job seeker. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a man of means managing my established law firm with resources to fend for my family and pay fees for my children who are studying abroad,&rdquo; he said.Chebukati is a managing partner for Cootow &amp; Associates Advocates, an established law firm with high-end clients from blue-chip companies, financial institutions and government agencies. If approved by Parliament, he will take over from Issack Hassan. Chebukati told MPs his immediate assignment will be to deliver a free, fair, credible and transparent election this year.He appeared, however, to dodge the lawmakers&rsquo; questions regarding his position on the contentious Election Laws (Amendment) Act, which allows for a manual backup of voter registration and transmission of results in the upcoming poll.&ldquo;My duty will be to work with the secretariat and the IT team to ensure the system used doesn&rsquo;t fail. We shall ensure we do load testing and commissioning before the poll to guarantee efficiency,&rdquo; he said. Mock electionsChebukati said the commission will conduct three mock elections using IEBC dummy data. The committee also interviewed Boya Molu, Consolota Bucha and Roselyne Kwamboka, who have been nominated as commissioners.Today will be the turn of Abdi Guliye, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Wanjala to face the MPs.Attempts by lawyer Apollo Mboya to stop Parliament from vetting the nominees failed after a High Court judge declined to grant temporary orders.Justice John Mativo said it is important to give other parties in the case, such as Parliament and the IEBC, the chance to respond so he can hear them all before giving any orders. He said the order sought will affect persons who are not party to the case.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m highly persuaded that it would be prudent to allow the respondents to file their responses then hear all the parties and determine the application,&rdquo; Mativo said, adding that affected persons must not be denied the benefit of a hearing.