When Ruth First published her path-breaking book in 1970 entitled "Barrel of a Gun: Political Power in Africa and the Coup d'Etat", she was much more concerned about studying political power in the new states in Africa than studying the military in politics as such. The central question that was bothering her mind was the following: why is it that, in these new African states, there has been a high propensity for military coups d'&eacute;tat from one country to the other? Alternatively put: what is it in the nature of the use, distribution and manipulation of political power in Africa that predisposes civilian governments to military intervention? As she delved into her analysis, Ruth First finally stumbled on an interesting theory in answer to the question she was asking. She stated: "when civilians begin to rely on command rather than discourse and persuasion in politics, who is more qualified to command than the military." For example, it does not matter how many elections are held in Uganda under Yoweri Museveni. As long as the NRM power politics proceed on the "command political culture", Uganda will essentially remain under civilian government in form but military rule in reality. The NRM regime can afford to break all types of democratic principles in the way it governs the people of Uganda because neither Parliament nor the courts of law can stop it. That is command politics. One of these days, however, when there is a rapture in the command system within the state, then some colonel, captain, brigadier or whoever of that ilk, will mount a podium and announce some "liberation" of the Ugandan people. The command will change from one generation of military rulers to the other. Just as it used to happen in feudal England. One monarch replaced another through palace coups but the feudal order stayed on.PERPETUATING "COMMAND POLITICS" It is this possibility of perpetuating "command politics" in Uganda that Kizza Besigye is warning Ugandans about when he calls for constructive and structured dialogue to democratise Uganda's politics through peaceful change. In reality Ugandans have only two alternatives: one, to go the Besigye way or two, to wait to perpetuate command politics through an internal NRM coup which could easily be "legitimised" through some staged elections. The former promises more social progress and the expansion of the democratic frontier. The latter will definitely lead to more political decay and some economic growth without social prosperity. I would rather Ugandans listened more to the views of Dr. Besigye than to those of Museveni's Minister for Information who, no doubt, was broadcasting his master's voice. Much closer home in Kenya we cannot continue to be oblivious to the insidious character of command politics that has crept into the core of the way Jubilee runs the country. The executive has systematically taken some unilateral initiatives, quite often contrary to the law and the constitution, and handed them to the public as fait accompli. It all started with the President ignoring the Constitution and signing bills passed by the National Assembly into law without tabling them in the Senate for approval or rejection. The Senate went to court and the courts stopped the constitutional travesty. Then came the draconian amendments to the security laws, equally unilaterally initiated by the executive, rushed through the National Assembly in a hurry, and signed into law without due regard to public disapproval. Fortunately these were also stopped through a court process. A pattern of "command politics" has clearly been in the offing notwithstanding the positive intervention by the courts at some critical moments. But that may only be a brief interlude in a play carefully crafted for command politics to triumph in the end. Now a drama is playing in Nairobi in the form of an absurd debate whether a manual system should or should not be "a back up safeguard" to an electronic system of voting, counting and tallying votes. The point, however, is very simple. Any technical gadget is an integral system meant to work in a certain way. It should have, within that system, a series of operations meant to take over from others in the event of failure. If this were not the case then neither the Russians nor the Americans would have succeeded to take their scientists to the moon. The point is not really in the substance of the debate: most reasonable people agree that the substantive issue should, under normal circumstances, be agreed upon. What is at stake is the manner in which a debate was introduced whose outcome was already predetermined by the executive very much in line with command politics. But why should this be the case? Because the executive is looking ahead to the election itself and wants to ensure that the whole process produces a certain result notwithstanding the fact that the essential character of democratic elections is that they must remain indeterminate until they are concluded. Command politics are by their very nature antithetical to a democratic political culture.PRODUCING LEGITIMATE DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORSI am talking of a democratic political culture because free and fair elections, taken to be the method of producing legitimate democratic governors, do not fall like manna from heaven. They are nurtured within the womb of the politics of a society. If the culture is not there for holding democratic discourse, passing democratic laws, tolerating divergent opinions, accepting legitimate processes of decision making, accommodating and respecting diversities in society, etc then it is not easy to expect legitimate governments to be produced through free and fair elections because such elections will not be there in the first place. I therefore fear that the strategy Jubilee is taking of "dirtying the waters" of democratic discourse before the elections may as well be a strategy of "dirtying the waters" of free fair elections in the final analysis. Which brings me to the politics of South Sudan. It is common knowledge that when the Addis Ababa Agreement was signed some time last year following the Addis Ababa Peace Talks among the different political tendencies, it was agreed that a Transitional Government of National Unity (TGoNU) would be formed in Juba inclusive of all parties on an agreed formula. The parties to this agreement were: the SPLM in Government (SPLM-IG) led by President Salva Kirri Mayadit; the SPLM in Opposition (SPLM-IO) led by Riek Machar; the Former Detainees (FDs) who had originally criticised the lack of democracy in the SPLM government and were detained by Salva, then released essentially to live outside the country; and the Alliance of Political Parties comprising of diverse social forces in quest for democratic political change and respect for diversity.COMPLETELY NEW CREATURE In July last year a disagreement, contrived or real, between Salva Kirr and Riek Machar, broke down into violent conflict leading to the departure of Riek from Juba and his forced stay outside the country. Salva Kirr then went ahead to reconstitute the Transitional Government unilaterally, putting into question whether the Addis Ababa Agreement was still holding or whether the government in Juba was now a completely new creature which should seek its legitimacy under other terms. In a powerfully argued blog dated January 2, 2017, Remember Miamingi, writing from the Faculty of Law, University of Pretoria, casts serious doubts regarding the legitimacy of the Juba regime. If it has abrogated the Addis Ababa Agreement then there cannot be a Transitional Government of National Unity in Juba. Unity with who and transiting to where? Through the use of the armed might of the military the Juba regime is actually ruling by decrees and commands and not by any other consensus arrived at by the very nature and essence of a "government of national unity." If there is anything South Sudan needs desperately is national unity. If there is anything the current regime is bereft of is the political culture of nurturing national unity. National unity cannot be nurtured through the politics of command; it is much more amenable to the politics of discourse, persuasion, tolerance and accommodation of diversity and consensus building. A military junta is least qualified to nurture such a political culture; it is more qualified to command. The IGAD states have therefore go it all wrong on how to rescue South Sudan. Even they themselves need a mediator in their own discourse on the South Sudan issue. Their own internal politics of command have put blinkers on their eyes. They cannot really see clearly on what needs to be done in South Sudan except defend the status quo. Itself an absurdity. The sooner progressive social forces within the region can realise that peace, the politics of accommodation and democracy are all threatened by command politics within the region the more we shall realistically plan for safeguarding democracy in the region.