The cost of manufacturing in the country fell significantly last year helped by a stable shilling that allowed industries to cut the cost of importing raw materials. The fourth quarter Producer Price Index published by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics showed year-on-year producer inflation was negative 0.47 per cent in 2016 compared to 6.74 per cent in 2015. However, quarter-on-quarter producer inflation stood at 1.79 per cent in the fourth quarter (October-December) compared to 0.94 per cent in the third quarter (July-September). PPI measures the average change in selling prices received by manufacturers. KNBS said this was the first time since 2012 that year-on-year producer inflation was in the negative territory. That was mainly caused by a drop in the cost of manufacturing chemicals, textiles, apparels, non-metallic minerals, food products, motor vehicles, furniture, and the repair and installation of machinery and equipment. Manufacturers were also favoured by a drop in the cost of utility such as electricity. However, the cost of water rose. There was also an increase in the cost of manufacturing beverages, tobacco, leather, wood, paper, rubber, plastics, basic metals and fabricated metal products. &ldquo;The stable exchange rate of the Kenya shilling against major foreign currencies led to the slow increase in &lsquo;year on year&rsquo; producer prices,&rdquo; KNBS said in the analysis of the Producer Price Index. The Central Bank of Kenya's data shows the shilling remained relatively stable between 100-102 against the dollar throughout 2016. CBK's hard currency reserves were recorded at $6.97 billion (Sh723.83 billion), or the equivalent of 4.56 months worth of import cover in the first week of December 2016. The CBK says the foreign exchange market continues to be supported by the narrowing of the current account deficit mainly due to lower prices of imported petroleum and machinery and equipment. The local currency is further supported by resilient diaspora remittances and improved tourism earnings and export receipts from tea and horticulture. According to the KNBS, the overall quarter-on-quarter producer prices increased mainly due to increases in the manufacture of food products, manufacture of rubber and plastic products and manufacture of basic metals and fabricated metal products. However, producer prices of manufacture of textiles, mining and quarrying and manufacture of chemicals and chemical products declined over the same period.