I remember it all too well. It was late 2007 and early 2008. We were winding down for the Christmas holidays and looking forward to a new year with renewed hope.But beyond Christmas, it was the season of general elections, one that would define our lives beyond a new President. It would define how we interacted as a nation for years to come.Back then, I was a rookie sports reporter at the Daily Nation in Nairobi. I planned to go home to the slopes of Mt Kenya for a few days over Christmas, then return to work as the year rushed to a close.On December 21, I called home on my Safaricom line, told my folks I would be seeing them soon. I also sent some money through M-Pesa so mum could buy food for our festivities.I should show up at the family doorstep anytime now, right? Christmas Day came, and a day or two later the national voting began. I won't forget the eerie feeling. Dark political clouds were hanging over Nairobi. It looked like rain, thunder. Please don&rsquo;t let it pour.I went to work. Newsrooms are always interesting and lively and I felt comfortable in mine. The country was abuzz with talk and speculation as election results started trickling in.Then a colleague marched up to me, staring at me like a sharpshooter and blasted words that would kill anyone's psyche.&ldquo;Your tribe is the worst tribe! Full of thieves. You people have stolen the elections!&rdquo; he thundered, wagging his heavy index finger in my face.&ldquo;Huh?&rdquo; I said, too confused to give an intelligent answer. The office had become as hostile as the world outside.This ugly scene was fast attracting interest from other reporters &mdash; the newsroom was politically divided right down the middle. I tried to dismiss the tirade. The tension in the newsroom could be cut with a knife. And it was building by the minute. News streaming in on television channels was fueling tribal hatred across the nation. I knew I had to retreat.I did not answer that fuming journalist. I hurried out, jumped on the next matatu and headed for my village in Meru. Good thing the roads were not blocked on that side of Kenya. On reaching home, I got a distress call. It was a news colleague, a features journalist on the weekend desk. Nairobi was quickly shutting down. The supermarkets. Banks. Everything. He wanted money for bus fare to his home in Kitale, to get away from the madness. It would be a difficult journey since many roads in the region were blocked.Thankfully, my village town was still bustling with life.Post-election violence was only on TV, at least that&rsquo;s how my villagers saw it. I sent my colleague 1,000 bob through M-Pesa. Thank God for this technology. Back then, M-Pesa was only a few months old but it was proving very popular. In this case, it was indeed a godsend.This would be no normal New Year's Eve. No night vigils or street parties to usher in 2008. Instead, curfew was imposed almost nationwide. Everyone stay home &mdash; or else.The rage to kill and demolish everything gripped thousands of young people in some regions, like a demon out of hell. The media didn&rsquo;t help. The scenes were shocking, gory, heart-breaking. My next distress call on December 30 was from a cousin living in Mombasa. It was urgent.&ldquo;We need to get out of this town by any means possible. Things are really thick. My house has been surrounded by marauding youth. How do I get my wife and child out of this?&rdquo; He almost screamed at me, hope fading away.I could only imagine what it would be like to be under siege. I felt helpless. But this man and his household were depending on me. Me. I had to sound hopeful.&ldquo;What do you want me to do?&rdquo; I asked calmly. &ldquo;Tell me and I will do it right away.&rdquo;He asked me to send him airtime so he could first call his parents who live not too far from my mother's house. Some things you do out of love, not an abundance of cash. Thankfully, in those days we could still Sambaza a few shillings worth of airtime. I sent 500 bob.He was too thankful. I told him to stop thanking me and fix first things first. That phone call, thanks to Safaricom, meant everything to his mum. Her son and his family were still alive. She cried. Sang. Celebrated.Now to get my cousin, his wife and daughter home safely. The few buses on the road would charge a premium for the 12-hour journey from Mombasa to their upcountry village.We had to raise money.Each seat on the bus would be going for a minimum 3,000 bob, up from the usual 1,000 bob. Fundraise we did. We had to do it fast because they were also running out of food in Mombasa. You don't want to starve in your own house, especially with your wife and daughter right there with you.We raised a modest Sh10,000 and sent it by M-Pesa right away. Thankfully, they scrambled onto a night bus that same day and started the arduous safari back home to Meru town. We waited with baited breath.Would the bus make it? What if it broke down? Or ran out of fuel in the middle of nowhere? What if political terrorists torched it?We waited 12 hours. Yeah, 12 long hours.Then on January 2 came the phone call from my cousin, bringing relief and joy to the start of an otherwise bleak 2008. The call ended their odyssey and brought us all hope.&ldquo;We have arrived. We are home!&rdquo;Do you have a juicy story that you just love? Safaricom is giving you a chance to publish your exciting life story and have it featured on their page. All you need is to visit the #KeepTheConnectionsGoing website and submit your own story!Get writing. Here's the link to the website to submit your story - http://keeptheconnectionsgoing.safaricom.co.ke/#listed-stories