President Uhuru Kenyatta today will launch the Jubilee Party membership smartcard. JP expects to net Sh200 million from recruitment.The cards are being sold for Sh20 each and the Star has learnt 10 million pieces have been imported from China.Another stock of five million cards is expected by end month, as JP seeks to recruit members across the country.Uhuru and Ruto will launch the card and mobilise party members to register in the month-long, mass voter registration starting on Monday. All the aspirants have been asked to buy the cards for their supporters and use them in the primaries in May.&ldquo;During the event, we will show members how to register with the card and how to use it while conducting party affairs. The new card will help us have credible nominations as it does not allow anyone to vote twice,&rdquo; head of Jubilee Presidential Secretariat Raphael Tuju said.He said the card will bear member&rsquo;s data, including ID number, age, constituency and party registration number. Each has a unique barcode.Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe has said the cards will allow them to block members of other parties from &ldquo;infiltrating JP&rdquo;.&ldquo;If you are a member of another party and try to register through our card system, it will prompt you to respond to questions like &lsquo;sorry you are a member of another political party, do you wish to resign and register as a JP member?&rsquo;&rdquo; Murathe said. This is one of the avenues Jubilee Party is using to raise funds for campaigns before the August 8 general election.Before meeting the select interim party officials last month, JP is said to have collected close to Sh1 billion from its aspirants.All aspirants, including elected leaders, had to pay a registration fee before they could participate in the meetings.Governor hopefuls were to pay Sh100,000, while those for Senate paid Sh50,000. Those seeking woman representative positions parted with Sh30,000.Those seeking the National Assembly seats paid Sh30,000, while MCA hopefuls paid Sh20,000. Jubilee Party insiders say at least 23,000 aspirants had by close of business on Wednesday registered.Beyond registration fees, the party&rsquo;s National Executive Committee is expected to set the nomination fees for the various positions. Women, youth and persons living with disability will pay half the amount.Other than paying for the day-to-day expenses of the party, some of the money will be put in the presidential campaign funds.Presidential candidates are allowed to spend not more than Sh5.2 billion, according to suspended regulations published by the IEBC. Though rules are suspended, the law requires expenditure be monitored by the IEBC from February 8, until August 8.