Hoteliers at the Coast are smiling all the way to the bank after reaping big from the just ended August-December tourism season. Their focus is now on how to sustain the bumper bookings.Managing director of PrideInn Group of hotels Hasnain Noorani said the challenge for hoteliers is to maintain the numbers, hence the need to expand conference facilities. He said bed occupancy at Pride Inn Beach Hotel averaged 90 per cent during the Christmas and New Year festivities.&ldquo;We have guests who have been so impressed that they have already booked for their 2017 December holidays. Our December 2017 bookings have already hit 30 per cent, so we will be looking for about 70 per cent,&rdquo; Noorani told the Star.Bed occupancy at the Coast averaged 80 per cent compared to about 60 per cent the year before, hoteliers said, citing improved security.&ldquo;There has also been improved aggressive marketing of our destinations and psychological aspect to the matter,&rdquo; Kenya Association of Hoteliers and Caterers regional executive officer Sam Ikwaye said in a telephone interview. The lifting of travel advisories by key source markets following a four-year security threat posed by the militia al Shabaab was a turnaround for tourism. The game-changer was, however, regional and domestic bookings, Kenya Coast Tourism Association chairman Mohammed Hersi said.Hersi, also the chief executive of the Heritage Group of Hotels, said improved infrastructure was a boost to regional and domestic tourism. He said many NGOs and diplomats from Arusha came to Mombasa for their meetings.&ldquo;We have seen more tourists from Arusha and Moshi this year. This is because of the improved road network in the country, with the completion of the Taveta-Voi road,&rdquo; He said. &ldquo;It is easier for them to come to Mombasa than to go to Arusha. This is why we must invest in infrastructure.&rdquo;Domestic tourists accounted for about 60 per cent of the total bookings, Ikwaye said, praising the &ldquo;safety arrangement by the police and the Mombasa government who have controlled the traffic relatively well&rdquo;.Sally Chao, a local tourist from Nairobi who had travelled to Watamu with her fianc&eacute;e, described Watamu as &ldquo;heaven on earth&rdquo;. &ldquo;This place is amazingly beautiful. I was excited to see dolphins. I really enjoyed the seabed view when I was snorkeling,&rdquo; she told the Star. Watamu is known for dolphins, white sandy beaches, snorkeling and skydiving.