Multiple Kenya and Safari Rally champion Baldev Singh Chager, reigning KNRC Division 1 Champion Onkar Singh Rai and fast-rising Tejveer Singh Rai will form a formidable three-man Kabras Sugar Racing team during the season-opening Mombasa Cement Rally on January 27-28 in Vipingo.The three are on the final phase of their preparations at their workshop in Nakuruand will be running the same R4 Mitsubishi Evolution 10s, which they drove last season.Onkar will team up with Gareth Dawe while Chager will have Ravi Soni as the navigator. Tejveer, who is the eldest of the Rai siblings, returns to the scene with his long standing navigator Zahir Shah.Kabras team will be hoping to win some events in the 2017 series with Chager going for the jugular and the Rai siblings chasing their maiden KNRC victories. Out of the eight rallies staged last season, Kabras managed to win one in Kisumu. Jaspreet Chatthe won the Safari while Flying Finn Tapio Laukkanen racked up four wins in Kajiado, Wundanyi, Eldoret and Nanyuki. Rajbir Rai settled for the last two in Kitengela and Guru Nanak.Chager, who is incidentally the lead driver at Kabras Sugar Racing team, racked up an emphathic victory on the cane fields around Chemase region last year to reclaim lakeside honours after a 19-year hiatus. Chager had first won in Kisumu incidentally on his KNRC debut in 1998; the same year he won three rallies but failed to lay his hands on the coveted title then taken by Azar Anwar on homestretch.Onkar, a former Division 2 champion, had a successful season in 2016, clearing the group with all his Division One race adversaries. The Menengai Oil Refineries managing director, who made his KNRC debut in the 2010 Guru Nanak in an ex Chager Subaru, is looking forward to the season with great expectations. He returns to the KNRC Premier Class which is a composition of the fastest drivers on the circuit. Tejveer, one of the fastest rising KNRC drivers at the present, will be hoping for some top 10 finishes in the season. Tejveer made his KNRC debut on the 2011 edition of Voi Rally and has since risen through KNRC ranks in awesome fashion.