Striking doctors have agreed to resume return-to-work talks with the government.They will meet the Council of Governors and Health ministry officials tomorrow afternoon. This is their first meeting with the CoG since doctors walked out on governors mid-last month. They also abandoned talks with the ministry after labour court judge Hellen Wasilwa issued arrest warrants against union officials for continuing with an illegal strike.&ldquo;Yes, the meeting will take place on Wednesday at 3pm,&rdquo; CoG chief executive Jacqueline Mogeni told the Star yesterday. The meeting is unlikely to end the strike, but will open important dialogue that could see doctors return to work soon. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Pharmacists&rsquo; Union officials said they were always ready to negotiate, but the government kept pushing them away. KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga said they will demand the full implementation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement they signed with the ministry in 2013. He said among other issues, the CBA entails financing research, strengthening internship programmes and improving doctors&rsquo; welfare.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s an agreement. If implemented, it will see doctors find cures for diseases through research and reduce doctor-to-patient ratio,&rdquo; he said in Mombasa. The CBA raises salaries of most public service doctors by 300 per cent. The lowest paid medic, an intern, would earn Sh325,000 every month, up from Sh127,000. Currently, the best paid employee in the public service earns about Sh300,000, while the lowest paid earns Sh10,000. Governors say the proposed salaries are unmanageable and the CBA is invalid because it was signed with the national government.In 2013 when the CBA was signed, the proposed salaries were suspended to await the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to set out guidelines for remuneration of doctors in public service. The SRC published those guidelines last November and awarded medics and engineers higher salaries than other public service employees, but lower than what is in the CBA. Doctors rejected the offer and began their strike. Most counties have withheld the striking doctors&rsquo; pay.