Counterfeit electrical appliances worth about Sh2 million were seized in Nairobi by anti-counterfeit and standards agencies, underlining renewed battle against illicit trade.The Anti-Counterfeit Agency and the Kenya Bureau of Standards on Friday impounded the substandard goods at an electrical cables and accessories shop on Price Road near Luthuli Avenue.Most of the items nabbed included fridge guards, appliance guards and air conditioner guards. This comes a fortnight after Kebs incinerated fake goods worth about Sh30 million found in various stores countrywide.The goods destroyed on January 10 at Kebs headquarters and Athi River included twisted steel bars, roofing sheets, plastic pipes, banned cosmetics, electric cables, expired foodstuffs, unbranded sugar, rice, margarine and expired baby diapers. Kebs principal market surveillance officer Gabriel Waiganjo said the seized electrical appliances posed danger to users."The electrical sockets outlets are unsafe for use since they don't have safety features. All socket outlets whether fixed or portable are supposed to have shutters," Waiganjo said."When we get them, we seize from the outlets, then we go and destroy them. They are unsafe for use in Kenya. When it comes to electrical products, we have two parameters which are very critical &ndash; performance and safety."He said the fridge guards had fake Kebs stickers."One needs to have a certificate of conformity from Kebs to get the sticker. This will prove the product has been tested by our partners and they have conformed to the relevant Kenyan standards. I asked for the certificate of conformity from the shop but they could not get it," Waiganjo said.Anti-Counterfeit Chief Inspector Weldon Sigei said the agency had received numerous complaints from the owners of the trademark for the electrical appliances. "We have received numerous complaints from consumers and from Sollatek, the dealer in electrical appliances. Usually we enforce laws that safeguard intellectual property rights."Sigei said they are looking for the owner of the shop, saying he will be charged in court.