Listening to the speeches at the funeral of the late Hon. Mark Too left a bad taste in the mouths of many. The confrontation between Deputy President and Gideon Moi played out (yet again) in the open and exposed deep rifts in their Rift Valley backyard. Their unfortunate utterances exposed divisions in the region and going into the coming election, it appears that they still don&rsquo;t understand what is at stake just eight months to the election. That kind of divisive rhetoric is just a sign that they have not quite agreed on what their interest in the presidency really is. Their antagonism seems to be on who best deserves to be the next president &ndash; for William Ruto his claim to the throne is that he has worked his way to his position by sheer hard work while Gideon Moi is claiming the throne by entitlement or so it seems. The war of the bugsThe Swahili have a saying &ndash; &lsquo;vita vya panzi, furaha ya kunguru&rsquo; (the fight of the bugs is the happiness of the raven) could never have been truer. As Ruto and Gideon Moi fight, the Opposition is quite happy as it only means they can easily weaken them. Their fights have the effect of undermining the confidence in the leadership of DP Ruto &ndash; not because of the attacks from Gideon but from the way the DP is behaving when under attack from Gideon Moi. From their speeches, it emerged that indeed William Ruto is quite insecure about Gideon Moi &ndash; but for what reason? Ruto seemed quite ill at ease with Gideon Moi&rsquo;s remarks and even presence. He found himself responding to him in a scarcely veiled attack that played out in the face of the President. It looked like a schoolyard fight of little boys. William Ruto should have ignored Gideon&rsquo;s remarks. That would have been the killer punch.Uhuru&rsquo;s DilemmaAlthough Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s friendship with DP Ruto is firm, at least for now, Uhuru is clear in his mind that he owes much to the Moi family politically. Moi pulled him from political obscurity into national prominence. He was very lucky that Mark Too (practically part of Moi&rsquo;s family) was willing to vacate his parliamentary seat for him (nobody can do that nowadays!). Uhuru&rsquo;s father Jomo Kenyatta four decades earlier in 1961, was not as lucky. He had to struggle to find a seat in the Legislative Council which he desperately needed in order to attend the second Lancaster House Constitutional talks and shape debate on the future of Kenya. He was unable to attend the first Lancaster House conference owing to the fact that he was still in detention and when his brother-in-law Mbiyu Koinange tried to hold brief for him in London, the settlers objected saying he was not a sitting Legco member. He then spent his time in the corridors eavesdropping at the speeches. When Kenyatta was finally released, Tom Mboya who had vowed to vacate his Nairobi seat for him suddenly reneged on his word throwing things into a spin. Kanu leaders agonized on exactly how to get Kenyatta to be a part of the London Constitutional talks slated to start in February 1962 only weeks away. Member for Kigumo Kariuki Njiiri agreed to step down and so on January 13, 1962, Jomo Kenyatta was sworn in as the Member of the Legislative Council thereby placing him on the path that eventually led to the Presidency.The legend of Mark TooThe day in 1987 when I first met Mark Too, he had just taken the wrong turn on his way to the home of the area MP Hon. Samuel Ng&rsquo;eny and ended up at our home instead. I was a little boy then and when I ran to see who the visitor was, he peered off his gleaming brand new car and asked me how to get to where he was going. I explained to him and as he turned his car to leave, he asked who my father was. My father was bedridden having suffered multiple fractures in a terrible road accident a few months earlier. Mark Too then got off his car and walked into our house and sat with my father for nearly an hour even forgetting where he was going. My father was not even remotely important to him politically or even in any other way but he came into our humble home, sat and took a cup of tea listening patiently to his story. That was the greatness of Mark Too. Despite his great wealth and fame, he never put people into categories of importance. He dined with the mighty and the humble without marking boundaries. Most leaders of his stature today would never find such time for anyone unless there was something they were desperately looking for. Think about it. When was the last time an important national leader came to your house?A limited educationIt was as though his limited education worked to add some practical human values into his actions. One thing he understood more, was that there was need for people to get along with one another. That is why he was &lsquo;Mr Fix-it&rsquo;, or &lsquo;Bwana Dawa&rsquo; to many who knew him. That wasn&rsquo;t always true though. There is more to his political side. At the height of his power, he wrecked quite a few political careers and there were some old political leaders who had nothing good to say about him. He took Nandi politics on a fast lane moving like a hurricane clearing anything in his path. He raised kings and destroyed them in equal measure. He however found a way to bring them to his side again and I saw many of his mortal enemies and those he pulled down still attended the funeral. Such was the power of Mark Too.The son of the PresidentThe next time I saw Mark Too was two years later when, as a student at the local high school, he came and donated a VCR that he has brought from Canada. When asked to speak to the students, he caused much laughter when he spoke in his characteristic broken Swahili with a heavily Kalenjin accent. As far as we were concerned as students, Mark Too was the son of the former President a fact that he did not quite deny nor confirm. He simply rode the assumption. It seemed important for him to keep the rumour alive. He was close to power and unlike the rest of us, he did not need an appointment to see President Moi. He could see him anywhere and at any time. Even though he (later) denied being President Moi&rsquo;s son, his meteoric rise from obscurity despite any academic qualifications and his closeness to power caused Kenyans to believe he was. A brother from another motherMark Too died a Kanu man but of course he couldn&rsquo;t do any better. His ties with the Moi clan were far too deep. If former President did not sire him, then he literally made him. He owed everything to retired President Moi and so it was necessary that Gideon Moi attend the funeral if only to make their party presence felt. Mark Too was his brother, if not by blood, then at least in politics. Mark Too had the uncanny ability to bring avowed foes to the talking table. His unassuming approach and manner just did it for him. His death was therefore a big thing to all, attracting friend and foe alike. Leaders from both sides of the political divide trooped in to send off the man they hated or loved depending on what stage it was. Even in death, Mark Too brought two bitter rivals Deputy President William Ruto and Gideon Moi to the same platform. It would therefore be a positive tribute to the two foes to take a leaf from the life of Mark Too and make up.Presidential demeanourSpeaking first, Gideon Moi read his father&rsquo;s eulogy of Mark Too giving him a glowing tribute in the somewhat short speech. There was however more to the way Gideon Moi spoke than in what he said. Speaking with his characteristic deep commanding voice, he looked quite presidential, with an air of dignity and a smugness that was difficult to ignore. He seemed at pains to shake away the tag of dividing the Kalenjin people and landed the first punch at William Ruto by questioning the real meaning of the tag &lsquo;hustler&rsquo;. What emerged however is that Gideon is fiercely fighting to remain politically relevant in the vast region once controlled by his father. Speaking in the Kalenjin language, he tried to connect with the local Mwananchi in what is clearly a change of strategy. For long, his &lsquo;private school&rsquo; English accent placed him out of connection with the common man and he surprised many with his mastery of the Kalenjin language.Why Ruto needs GideonAt this stage of tightening Opposition unity, William Ruto needs Gideon Moi more than he cares to admit. Gideon Moi can remain with his party to ease pressure on Jubilee fallouts and have them vie for political office from there. While Ruto does not see this as being in line with his vision for Jubilee, there are those who feel that Kanu is gaining popularity in the absence of URP. There are those who had identified very closely with Brand URP and are struggling to accept Jubilee. Kenya&rsquo;s political future however, may just be in the hands of small regional parties where people find space as opposed to huge often monolithic national parties that are hard to get into. While speaking at another funeral a while back, William Ruto deeply hurt Kanu members by describing their party as a &lsquo;corpse&rsquo; (it sounds worse in the local language). He said so as he stood right in front of a dead body so the point was driven home. He accused Gideon Moi of digging a grave for him and warned that as he dug, he should be careful how far he dug as it might just be his own grave. At that time, power was quite sure for Jubilee but now things have changed. Going into 2017, things don&rsquo;t quite seem as sure as they were before. If you look at the shifting dynamics, Ruto needs everyone in the fight against the united Opposition. He must therefore eat humble pie and call Gideon Moi to enquire with him exactly why it is that they are feuding. He has already shown grace to some of his detractors including Sudi, Keter and has even gone slow on Isaac Rutto. Casus Belli Gideon Moi believes that William Ruto is arrogant and disrespectful to other leaders. William Ruto on the other hand considers GM as entitled, living off the name of his father and having achieved nothing on his own. In the same way Uhuru was pulled out of political obscurity and put on track to be president, Gideon Moi&rsquo;s followers believe that Uhuru owes a debt of gratitude to the Moi family and so should have Gideon become his deputy and then replace him as president. However, William Ruto is much more charismatic and an astute leader who has attracted a large following that he has used to justify his position in government. He is accused by the other camp as being an accumulator with his personal interests sometimes taking centre stage. However, going forward, Jubilee will need more people on its side if they intend to ride the coming storm. Uhuru and Ruto must find a space for Gideon Moi and in so doing bring on board Kanu diehards who &ndash; though few, make powerful opinion leaders on the ground. Continuing to feud with Gideon Moi gives him more relevance and greater political mileage than he actually deserves. Besides, the re-emergence in UDF of Kipruto Kirwa, William Ruto&rsquo;s former comrade-at-arms should be worrisome for Jubilee. It basically means that their strategy in the Western Rift Valley needs to be boosted. Faltering strategiesJubilee must also find space for other national leader who will bring in much needed votes for a decisive win. Jubilee has been faltering in key target areas such as the larger Kisii where it had hoped to attract a sizeable chunk of the sub-region&rsquo;s 632,000 votes. Despite making key appointments for people from that region, it has not yielded much in terms of support in what pundits say has been a series of open mistakes. They by-passed old and seasoned politicians in favour of younger ones and this has caused disaffection and loud murmurs. Jubilee&rsquo;s Western Kenya strategy is yet to show any promise but their hope seems to have now fizzled out when the so-called &lsquo;Luhya spokesman&rsquo; was been unveiled. Leaders working for the perennially elusive Luhya unity seem to be working it for the Opposition. It seems that every door they are knocking on seems shut. This then leaves them with just one strategy &ndash; consolidate their traditional strongholds. Already the Ruto is urging massive voter recruitment drive for those eligible to register as voters in his backyard. Even then, they still require proper management of internal conflicts. Mark Too&rsquo;s spirit of cohesiveness and unity must not be allowed to go with him.