President Donald Trump has been in office for more than nine months but has nothing major to show by way of achievement other than the endless gaffes, shameful and patently schoolyard antics via Twitter. So much so such that Republicans in the Congress are doing exactly what they falsely accused and berated former President Barack Obama for years of doing — “slamming” through Congress the historic Obamacare, which the Republicans claimed nobody understood and was “bad for the country”. This is the dishonesty the same Republicans have now proven by passing Trumps Reform Plan, a law that’s truly bad for the country. It is being passed under an even worse process than Obama passed his signature legislation. Republicans are not doing this by choice: They have none. It’s the only thing they can do and have some major law passed so they’re not swept under along with Trump’s failures as President. Trump, on his part, has promised to give America a “giant Christmas gift” and knowing no one believes what he says, reiterated, “and when I say giant, I mean giant” as if that would make a difference in anyone believing him other than his core cult-like followers. Reiterating he wasn’t lying makes no difference to most everyone else. Opposition to this law despite what Trump and the Republicans are saying is high and continues to gain momentum. According to a CNN poll, 45 per cent opposed the then proposed law, now opposition to the law has gone up by 10 points to 55 per cent. Two-thirds of people in the CNN poll say the tax plan will do more to benefit the wealthy as compared to just 23 per cent, who say it will help the middle class most. On the other hand, while Democrats are nearly united in seeing this plan as a tax cut for the wealthy, more than one in every four Republicans — 27 per cent — feel the same way. In other words, the Republicans and Trump are using their control of all power in Washington to pass a law that may as well be their undoing in not only losing their majorities in both legislative Houses, but also the presidency, which they could lose even earlier than the next general election. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Jubilee face a similar situation but they have time to avoid what the Republicans have done, pretty much sealing their chances of losing control of the House and Senate, even when they think what they have done in passing the law will save them. Republicans and Jubilee have one thing in common here that will prove to be fatalistic, unless Jubilee figures this and does the right thing and this is both parties’ efforts to only do things pleasing to their base while ignoring the needs and desires of the majority and to the latter’s rage and fury. What Uhuru and Jubilee need to figure and avoid the same fate that awaits the Republicans come the next general election is for Uhuru to appoint a Cabinet and key officer holders that reflect the face of the country. This writer has no tribalism bone in his body and loves all Kenyans equally. But nothing is upsetting to him and like-minded others, who love our beloved country than to see nearly all positions in government, from the most important to the least important, occupied by people from two tribes. That’s just wrong and President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto can fix this. It’s the right thing to do and doing so will go a long way in starting to heal the country. The other thing Uhuru and his government should do is to put in place and implement policies that will finally see a change of the country from one where the welfare of many is dependent on government jobs or government loot and whatever trickles out of the same. This is doable were Uhuru and Ruto to deliver even on the first goal. They will have given Kenya the perfect Christmas gift under these circumstances, while Raila Odinga and NASA are lurking out there ready to give them hell if they don’t do the right thing.   Samuel N. Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States