The media subverted democracy in the just-ended electioneering period, says a new monitoring report released in Nairobi yesterday. Consequently, it adopted a conformist role rather than being agenda setters and a watchdog. Coverage of the elections was “dangerously flawed”. Mildred Ngesa, the executive director of Peace Pen Communications, presented the report dubbed “Media Besieged - A Media Monitoring Report Coverage of the Kenya Elections 2017. Related content : CAK warns media houses against bias during coverage of August poll “In a period of six months, we monitored media conduct as the election dynamics unfolded. Media conduct took a nose-dive with a myriad of biased reporting, inflammatory coverage and sensationalism that largely dented professional conduct,” she said. The report indicts journalists and editors for a series of malpractices including inability and unwillingness to hold those manning the elections and other players to account. It shows many journalists and their media houses failed to champion public interest. Henry Maina, regional director Article 19, said the media is now under state capture. The state has adopted more sophisticated tools to gag media. “The treatment of the media under the Moi era was better. They used crude methods such as burning newspapers, but left them in business. “Today, it’s worse. They put economic pressure by denying business to outlets they deem unfriendly. They also use intimidation and regulations to censure the media,” he said. Also read : Media council warns journalists against propagating hate Maina said the media is being used as a purveyor of planted stories across the major dailies. This erodes and dents the industry’s image. The report also puts editors on the spot for polarising newsrooms along party-ethnic lines by embedding of reporters in political parties and politicians from their ethnic group. “Media owners influence agendas. A majority were think-tanks for either Jubilee or NASA. They were mouthpieces for parties and fiddled with editorial policy. Journalists were left vulnerable, they played along to save their jobs,” the report shows. Click here for the latest political news 