Regional and ethnic mobilisation, political vendetta, monetary inducement, sympathy and comradeship between MPs and their former colleagues played out in the just-concluded East African Legislative Assembly elections. Seven former MPs, some with deep pockets, and two newcomers were among those elected by the bicameral Parliament on Thursday to represent Kenya in the regional assembly.  The rejection of NASA chief executive Norman Magaya, a feisty lawyer seen as the face of rebellion against Jubilee, has triggered uproar in the coalition. “Jubilee marshalled against him [Magaya] to the last man,” an MP and a senior ODM official told the Star. “If you look at the outcome, of the nine who were elected, seven are former MPs and six were in the last Parliament. It tells you the MPs through and through will always vote for their own.” A defiant Magaya said he will not be silenced by Jubilee blackmail and those NASA MPs who have “traded their conscience”. “If Jubilee can mobilise its parliamentarians not to vote for me, then it means I’m working. My role is not to sing praises for Jubilee and the crescendo can only go higher,” he said. But National Assembly Deputy Minority leader Robert Mbui blamed lack of proper direction from the coalition leadership for Magaya’s loss. NASA released a last-minute press statement on their preferred line-up, which included Magaya’s name, but Mbui said many did not see it. “The truth is Magaya has done a lot for the coalition and he deserved our vote,” he said on Friday.  “Apparently, it was like members were left to make a choice. We ended up not whipping anyone and allowing members to just vote their conscience out of the 11.” Oburu Oginga, the elder brother of opposition chief Raila Odinga, and Kennedy Musyoka, son of Wiper leader Kalonzo, were among those who easily won. Oburu got 243 votes, while Musyoka garnered 309. Read:Oburu, Kalonzo's son and Simon Mbugua make it to EALA as Nyachae, Magaya lose Also read:Top ten favourites in race for EALA nomination Sources said Jubilee is not keen on a duel with Raila’s family, especially now that he is out to fight President Uhuru Kenyatta. Musyoka is said to have received many sympathy votes, because of his ailing mother in Germany. Others who won on the NASA side were former Balambala MP Abdikadir Aden, who got 235 votes, and former Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Ibrahim Ali with 142. On the Jubilee side, former Kamukunji MP Simon Mbugua made a political comeback and got the majority votes among the party’s 14 nominees. Also elected were Florence Sergon ( 252 ), former Mandera North MP Aden Noor Mohammed ( 192 ), former Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi ( 208 ) and former Nyandarua Woman Rep Wanjiku Muhia ( 180 ). Click here for latest political news