Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has decried the poor workmanship of the Sh 1.7 billion Bondo-Siaya-Rang’ala road undertaken by the Associated construction company. Wandayi said the 42 kilometre stretch of the road which was to be tarmacked by the associated construction company has stalled before completion next to Rang’ala bridge. The MP,said that more than six years ago since the tender was awarded to the company and suspicious payment done promptly, the road remains impassable on the other end that joins Rangala in his Ugunja constituency. Wandayi said that already the upper layer of the tarmack is fast pilling off begging the question on the materials and the workmanship used during the construction. “What came of the project six years down the line since the section from Ndere to the bridge remains a nightmare to the road users,” added wandayi. He was speaking on Friday at the Rang’la bridge where he warned the ministry of transport cabinet secretary Michael Macharia to brace for a contest over the state of the road. Wandayi issued a four weeks ultimatum to CS James Macharia that failure to address the issue, he would file a petition in parliament seeking to impeach the CS for negligence and misuse of taxpayers monies. “We will initiate private prosecution against the CS on improper misuse of public funds and negligence of his office,”added Wandayi saying two years ago he attempted to raise the matter in the court only to get unfulfilled response which he would not buy this time round. He Further, he said, Macharia will face charges of misappropriation of public funds, adding that it  was improper for his ministry to pay a contractor a whooping 1.7 billion shillings in advance for incomplete work. The MP,who described the project as a white elephant, demanded to know the cost of variation since the project stalled yet it had been fully paid for despite the poor workmanship. Wandayi questioned the poor workmanship done by the contractor, lamenting that already, sections of the road between Siaya and Rang'ala was peeling off. "Why is it that the quality of workmanship between Bondo and Siaya differs from Siaya / Rang'ala while the contract was one? He posed. He called for investigations into the whole tendering and payment process, expressing fear that  the contractor could have pocketed the whole shs. 1.7 billion contract sum without completing the works. Wandayi said that Huludhi bridge, which is currently on use was a disaster in waiting and called on the cabinet secretary to push the Kenya National Highways Authority, KeNHA to hasten the completion of the new bridge which was abandoned by the contractor. In July this year, the director general of the Kenya National Highways Authority, Peter Mundinia  told the media that a contractor had been identified to undertake finishing works on the Uludhi bridge. Mundinia said that the contractor, whom he did not name, would be on site within two weeks but up to now nobody has shown up. Wandayi threatened to mobile the locals to barricade the busy Kisumu-Busia highway to paralyse and strain business ventures with the neighboring Uganda if the situation remains un resolved.                      