The Vihiga Cultural Society, organisers of the Annual Maragoli Festival have apologized to Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa for the hostile reception in Mbale on Boxing Day. The society's leaders Bernard Chahilu (chairman), Hezekiah Kisali (secretary) and Jotham Savatia (treasurer) have written to Wamalwa expressing their sympathy. The letter, seen by the Star, was copied to the society's patron Musalia Mudavadi and Vihiga Governor Wilbur Otichillo. “In fact the patron pleaded to no avail,” said the
letter. But some legislators yesterday demanded that Eugene, as he is popularly known, instead apologises to the Maragoli people for
gate-crushing and disrupting their cultural day. Wamalwa arrived
at the ground in the afternoon when Mudavadi was addressing the crowd. A regular guest of the festival, Wamalwa thought it was business as usual when he stepped out of his vehicle
and waved to the crowd that waved back bye-bye. As if he did not understand
the bye he proceeded to the empty seat that was left by Mudavadi who was
addressing the well attended festival. Mudavadi tried to calm the
Nasa supporters who were saying “hatutaki Jubilee hapa” (we don’t want Jubilee
people here”). the Nasa co-principal and ANC party leader then led Wamalwa to his car to save him from the unruly crowd as police shot in the air to clear the way for him to exit. Wamalwa later blamed Mudavadi
for failing to contain his own people saying that the event had been reduced to
a Maragoli affair rather than a Luhya unifying celebration. However, the officials said the society is is non political cultural group
that believes in Luhyia unity. “We sincerely hope the regrettable
incident will not affect the very good relationship between our
sister communities of the Bukusu and Maragoli,” the  and hoped the CS will accept the apology. The
MPs said in a statement that nothing of the sort has ever occurred in
the 38 years existence of the festival and accused the CS of being used
to cause disharmony in the Luhya community. “Eugene must also
apologise to the community and its spokesperson, ANC leader Musalia
Mudavadi, by falsely accusing him of planning his ejection from the
event,” Vihiga Women Rep Beatrice Adagala said. “It is Mudavadi in his role as Luhya Spokesman who saved the day and Eugene’s life,” she said. Luanda
MP Chris Omulele said it was unfortunate for a CS to attend a sacred
event — the Maragoli Cultural Festival — with the sole purpose of
provoking the people and gain mileage with Jubilee by maligning their
leader. “Those of us who attended the festival condemn the hidden
agenda and subsequent lies by Eugene in the strongest terms possible. We
do not expect such drool from a leader of his stature,” said Emuhaya MP
Omboko Milemba. "Of
what value will Eugene fighting Mudavadi be to Luhya unity other than
for him to gain favour with Jubilee echelons and be given a plum job,”
said Saboti MP Caleb Amisi. “It should now be obvious to
all that Eugene was on a mission to destabilise the Luhya community by
sparking an imaginary hostility between the Bukusu and Maragoli.” They said Eugene was unwanted by the public not because he is a Bukusu but because he symbolises the Jubilee party. "How
can a person of his stature make false claims that Mudavadi arranged to
have him beaten when the Luhya Spokesman saved him and helped avert
bloodshed Eugene had planned!" Omulele said. They accused Eugene of seeking relevance for reappointment. ENDS..