President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday hosted Uganda President Yoweri Museveni on an official visit to the country. This is the first visit by a head of government since Uhuru was sworn-in for his final five-year term on November 28. The two held cordial talks attended by Deputy President William Ruto.  Uhuru and Museveni committed to strengthen the ties between the two countries.  They discussed progress on the standard gauge railway, the economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union, smooth running of the East African Community Secretariat, regional troops in Somalia and peace initiatives in South Sudan. Read : Museveni in state visit for talks with Uhuru Uhuru briefed Museveni on investments at the Port of Mombasa, including the second container terminal, which increased the port’s capacity to 1.65 million containers.  This is the first phase of a three-stage project, which, when completed, will bring the total capacity to 2.7 million containers per year. The modernisation programme has resulted in reduced average time to import and export goods through the port — from 11 days to less than three-and-a-half days. Uhuru also briefed Museveni on last Saturday’s commissioning of the Inland Container Depot at Embakasi. With the launch of the cargo rail freight on the SGR, Kenya expects that most goods will be transported from the Mombasa port by train, beginning January. Also read : Rwanda lauds Kenya's SGR progress, cuts a Sh124bn deal with China for own line This will further shorten the time of moving goods from Mombasa to Kenya’s interior and neighbouring countries, as well as the cost of doing so by 30 per cent. Phase two of the SGR from Nairobi to Naivasha is on schedule and will be commissioned in 2019.  The Presidents agreed on working jointly on building the SGR from Naivasha to Kisumu and Malaba on the border with Uganda. The railway to Kisumu will serve Uganda through the Lake Victoria ports of Jinja, Masaka and Entebbe. Click here for the latest political news 