In
many ways, climate change has become a matter of life and death.    This
is particularly true for those living in urban settlements in Kenya. Indeed, a
recent study from the John Hopkins University found that because the living
conditions of people living in settlements like Kibera often results in a
warmer micro-climate, the elevated temperatures brought about by climate change
are very dangerous.    To
make matters worse, our country continues to be ravaged by floods and drought,
exacerbated by an overdependence on rain-fed agriculture. And at the mercy of
poor housing and dependent on natural resources for their living,
underprivileged people are worst affected, with little protection against these
harsh conditions.    Deforestation
has a major hand in the current crisis. In 2015, it was estimated that Kenya was
losing a shocking 5.6 million trees daily. This is a dilemma which affects the
whole of Africa, with the Green Africa Foundation revealing that the rate of
annual deforestation in Africa exceeds the global annual average of 0.8%.   Part
of the reason for deforestation in Kenya is the country’s heavy reliance on
charcoal by households used for cooking. And with statistics from Mombasa-based
NGO, Green Development, revealing that 10kg of wood is needed to make just 1kg
of charcoal, it is clear to see where the problem lies.    Though
the 2010 charcoal rules, which seek to regulate the charcoal industry, are
being enforced by the Kenya Forest Service, the impact of the illegal charcoal
trade continues to be seen in the ongoing depletion of the Mau Forest as well
as other indigenous forests.    This
is why government’s plans to cut carbon emissions 30% below the
business-as-usual levels by 2030, are so critical. While government has plans
to meet this target by expanding solar, wind and geothermal power, it is become
increasingly evident that we will all need to play our part in reducing carbon
emissions if we wish to alleviate this dire situation.    Technological
and financial support from the private sector in particular, will prove
essential to the country’s success in turning climate change around.    That is why earlier this month Samsung Electronics sponsored
the launch of the Ethanol Stove Project. The project, which promotes clean, renewable energy,
aims to reduce the demand for charcoal countrywide by subsidising the retail price of over 10,000 ethanol stoves
being piloted in households across Mombasa County.   As a result of the subsidy, the eco-friendly stoves, known as Safi
Cookers, are being sold at Sh1,995, down from Sh4,000 per stove, making
them more accessible to everyone.  This is extremely significant because one litre of bio-ethanol
replaces 4kg of charcoal, meaning the project will reduce carbon dioxide
emissions in Kenya by 500 000 tons over the next five to seven years. The stoves, which last for five to ten years, not only allow
households to benefit from a cleaner environment, but also reduce cooking fuel
costs and help save on time.    The project is also aligned to the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals, and in particular Goal seven, which aims to create affordable
and clean energy by 2030.    Through this project, Samsung hopes to make a
significant impact, not only on the quantity of carbon dioxide emissions
produced, but also the concerning rate of deforestation. It
was for this same reason that Samsung, earlier this year, launched a project to
plant over 10, 000 trees in Nairobi’s Karura Forest with the intention of
boosting forest cover in Nairobi.  Through
initiatives like these, we believe we can start to reverse the harmful effects
of deforestation, and in doing so, make a radical difference in the lives of
many people across the country.  But
each and every one of us needs to play our part in combatting climate change
for this to become a reality.  And
the question is with so much at stake, can we afford not to?    Ms Patricia Kingori is the Head of Marketing,
Citizenship and PR for Samsung Electronics East Africa  