Champions Kenya Prisons men and Kenya Pipeline women teams served off their title defence with deserved wins as the Kenya Volleyball Federation play-offs got underway at the Makande Hall in Mombasa yesterday. Prisons made light work of play-offs returnees, Co-operative Bank in a 3-0 ( 25-14, 25-14, 25-15 ) win, while Pipeline were too good for Kenya Commercial Bank, whipping them 3-0 (25-10, 25-12, 26-24). However, chaff is expected to be separated from the wheat when arch-rivals Pipeline cross swords with Prisons as GSU clash with local nemesis, Prisons today. The winners in the separate ties will be favourites to win the 2017 title. Kenya Prisons (women) were scheduled to play debutants Western Bombers in the last match of the day. At the same time, former champions General Service Unit begun their title hunt with 3-1 ( 25-23,24-26,25-20, 25-23) win against hosts Kenya Ports Authority in the first match played at the same venue. GSU paraded five of the national team players who recently featured in the World Championship Qualifiers that was staged in Egypt. The players included fast progressing Abiud Chirchir, hard hitting Cornelius Kiplagat Cornelius Rotich, Boniffentry Wekesa and setter Brian Meli. GSU led 8-6 and 16-14 at the first and second technical time outs of the first set as Chirchir and Kiplagat excelled with their sure explosive spikes that propelled GSU to bag the set 25-23. The second set was competitive in the first few minutes of play as give and take was the order of the day. But it was KPA’s experienced duo of James Ontere and Benard Musumba, and the much revered fast raising libero Sam Juma who put the host in the lead. They never looked back as they held nerve to scoop the second set 26-24 to level the sets 1-1. In the third and fourth set, the visitors were a better side, and though with notable mistakes here and there, they reigned supreme bagging the sets 25-20 and 25-23 in an entertaining match. KPA’s team manager Joel Kosgei conceded defeat but was quick to note they have to win their Saturday match against Co-Oparative Bank to finish at the podium. “Save for poor officiating in notable instances- which is water under bridge now- we need to win our next match,” said Kosgei. His opposite number, Nicolas Kimeli said the win places them at a better place going forward in the three day event.