Kenya will in two years eliminate trachoma and elephantiasis, the ministry of Health says.  Elephantiasis is a gruesome disease that swells legs, while Trachoma, a bacterial eye infection that causes blindness, currently affects 64,000 Kenyans.  Sultani Matendechero, Head of Neglected Tropical Diseases, said the two are among 17 neglected tropical diseases in Kenya.  Matendechero spoke yesterday in Nairobi during the ongoing 11th NTDs Conference organised by the NTDs unit and the Kenya Medical Training Institute.   Elephantiasis is mostly found at the Coast where the ministry estimates about 80,000 men have been affected in the scrotum while about 55,000 people have swollen legs.  “We are on target to eliminate these two by 2020, while we expect Kenya to be certified Guinea Worm free by December 18 this year,” he said.  Elephantiasis is spread easily from one person to another by mosquitoes, just like malaria.  While scrotal swelling can be corrected via surgery, the morbid swelling of legs can only be managed by providing a minimum package of care.  Kenya is among the last places where the disease thrives. Trachoma is easily spread from one person to another and occurs where people live in crowded conditions with numerous flies and limited access to water and health care.  Elimination is usually achieved through mass administration of drugs to the affected population. Matendechero said the government is carrying out a survey to establish if some of the 17 diseases are really present in Kenya.  “We are doing a survey next year, to confirm river blindness is not in Kenya anymore and then we can certify the country as free,” he said.  Jackson Kioko, the director of medical services, said the ministry will also increase financial support and stronger political will towards the control of NTDs. “To this end, the ministry has trained and deployed staff, equipped regional labs and deliberately built capacity in mapping of NTDs and monitoring of interventions,” he said. Dr Kioko noted many of the NTDS have been driven by poverty, lack of safe water, proper sanitation, hygiene education and housing.  “This in turn calls for a strong coordination mechanism, resulting in a well-integrated Control Program,” he said. NTDs are a diverse group of communicable diseases that prevail in tropical and subtropical conditions in 149 countries – affecting more than one billion people and cost developing economies billions of dollars every year.  Populations living in poverty, without adequate sanitation and in close contact with infectious vectors and domestic animals and livestock are those worst affected.  