The government intends to cut the cost of liquid petroleum gas by half in the next three years in a strategy that will see taxation on kerosene increased to discourage its use. According to the Energy Regulatory Commission director general Pavel Oimeke, there are ongoing discussion with the National Treasury, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum and the commission to see that an increase of tax in kerosene is considered in the next national budget scheduled for June 2018. However, Oimeke did not give the exact proposed percentage increase on the kerosene tax but hinted that it should be on the same level as that of diesel, currently at Sh29.50 per litre. Kerosene is currently taxed at the rate of Sh8.34 per litre. While an increase in the cost of kerosene is looming, the commission is pushing for a reduction of liquid petroleum gas which they are fronting as the best kind of energy to be used for both domestic and industrial use. “We hope by the next budget this will be considered, any benefit accrued from this move, we urge the National Treasury to ensure that the same is passed to the growth of liquid petroleum gas to make it cheaper for Kenyans to access,” Oimeke said. If successful, the cost of a 13-kilogram gas cylinder will reduce from the current average retail price of Sh2,500 to Sh1,450. The commission also aims to increase gas cylinders in the country from the current 6 million to 18 million in the next three to four years. The ERC acting director of mechanical and production engineering Edward Kinyua noted that the use of liquid petroleum gas will help eliminate indoor pollution that causes at least 14,000 deaths in the country annually. According to the commission, the consumption of liquid petroleum gas in the country currently stands at 151,000 metric tonnes, which is about 3 kilograms per capita against a goal of at least 10 kilograms per capita. The government also aims to expand the LPG terminal in Mombasa in the next three to four years.  “Once we have the right infrastructure as a country, we can have an open tender system that will enable us consolidate our demand, order a cargo from the international market hence benefit from the lower cost of importation,” Oimeke said. This system will give ERC powers to regulate liquid petroleum gas prices in the country which is currently regulated freely by its retailers. While the commission encourages uptake of this gas, they also appreciated the existence of frustration in the same market that has led to increased adulteration of gas. To mitigate this, a committee has been constituted to review the regulatory framework to do away with such malpractices among others            