If you miss a Swahili wedding, you
definitely miss out!   A wedding is something someone does not
want to miss out on when invited, and a Swahili wedding is definitely one
wedding that you would beg for an invite. Going for one, however, requires great
expense for you to look good and stunning for all to see. You never know, you
might get your catch there. The wedding, be it a sister's, relative's,
friend's or friend's friend's wedding, it really doesn’t matter, what matters
is you, how you are going to look like on the D-day. Swahili women can take a whole month
preparing for the wedding and it’s not even theirs. This includes buying the right outfit and
in this case, it should be something that will stand out, just like in a beauty
contest.   ‘RUNWAY FOR MODELS’ When the wedding is a week to come, the
women start by applying ‘henna’ and ‘piko’ on hands and legs, but on D-day, the
women wake up to facials and finishings and, to top it all, a red-carpet dress!
Where would you be going without the 'wow' dress? No one wants to be left behind, and every
single woman is out to appear as the most attractive; you would think it is a
runway for models. One would prefer to sleep for three nights
without food but get the perfect dress and outfit for the wedding. In Mombasa, these dresses are found in
plenty in boutiques, you just have to get your price right. You must, however, go into the shops with a
keen eye only because the dresses are untouchable. Your pocket must be loaded; these dresses
are nothing to laugh about. But it’s worth it, since you want to be the
queen of the event. Luckily, at an Old Town boutique, these
kinds of dresses are found at an affordable price and are very adorable. Fanar Fashions, a boutique with these
exquisite yet affordable dresses, is a place you would want to visit a week
before the wedding to get the perfect dress for you. An attendant said the dresses range from Sh5,000-Sh15,000,
depending on the quality, design and appeal. That is the budget for only the dress. The jewellery,
shoes and make-up must also be put into consideration for you to look stunning.   SWAHILI WEDDING RITUALS The D-day comprises two sections. The first
is the ‘nikkah’, where the two lovebirds are joined together by the
Kadhi.   The second is the celebrations, which the
Swahili people refer to as ‘kupamba’. This is where the beauty competition
starts. Here, attendees (mainly women) dance to
music known as ‘taarab’ as they dance into a circle known as ‘mduara’. This is now the place you would want to
show off all your beauty as you dance around the circle with your hands and
fingers raised high, as you sing along. No one would enter the mduara without that
perfect outfit, because as others dance, others are seated watching, as if
spectators, just to pick a topic of the day after the wedding. This mainly happens at night from 7pm-11pm,
giving people the comfort as they dress to whatever they want. Remember I talked about Nikkah. During this
time, women prefer to put on dresses known as ‘deras’. Deras are free dresses but they also have
that amazing look. At Hafee Fashions boutique, this deras
range from Sh3,000-Sh4,000. The budget for a single wedding, therefore,
needs a lot of thinking and planning. For you to be the queen of the event, the least
you would have to spend is approximately Sh15,000 from the two dresses to two
pairs of shoes, two pairs of jewellery and make-up, which you would have to
refresh after the nikkah to head to the celebrations. That’s how costly a Swahili wedding is,
which is a must-attend.  