IS President Uhuru Kenyatta set to unveil a list of his new Cabinet nominees before January 8? Word has it that Uhuru has given his Cabinet Secretaries leave running to January 8, and it is believed during this time he will be finalising the list of his nominees. The leave, starting this Friday, is going to deny many CSs the chance to publicise themselves in discharging their work to evade their master's impending dismissal when forming his new Cabinet. Our mole says most of the CSs have been a worried lot, with their survival hanging in the balance. It is said a large number of Jubilee poll losers who are close allies of Uhuru lining up for Cabinet slots have made the CSs, especially those believed to have under-performed, develop cold feet. A cartel of 10 suspect companies blocked from participating in delivering beans at the Supplies department is now using intimidation tactics to push genuine suppliers out. The cartel wants to push out pre-qualified suppliers by linking them to the National Youth Service scam. Even after the court ordered their removal from the list of pre-qualified suppliers, the cartel has continued to interfere and participate in tenders at the ministries of Education and Special Programmes with the protection of some senior government officials. COULD the rift within NASA over distribution of House leadership positions have prompted the coalition's leader Raila Odinga to speedily intervene? Well, the former Prime Minister has met Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir (ODM) and his Butere counterpart Tindi Mwale (ANC), who were recently battling it out for the position of chairmanship of the Parliamentary Public Investment Committee. Nassir floored Mwale, but jitters rocked Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC, which termed ODM selfish for grabbing nearly all the top seats in Parliament. ANC had threatened to bolt out of NASA and Corridors has learned that the party leaders’ meeting was meant to settle the differences. AN MP from Rift Valley was heard celebrating at an Eldoret hotel that despite having challenges in a case facing him in the High Court, he will still be the one calling the shots because he “has a way of having my way in the matter”. The politician was overheard telling handlers of his competitor: “My opponent thinks that people who do not matter in society can be used to argue about a case and succeed, no way. They better know that it’s Jubilee that is in charge of this country now and stop wasting time in the courts. I will still win the case in court."            