O n November 25, 100 people converged at the USIU Auditorium, Nairobi, for the first edition of TEDx Ridgeways.  Eleven speakers shared their experiences under the theme: “A cry from a silent room: Ideas from untold stories.” The 11 are Nyachira Muthiga, Oltesh Thobias, Njeri Mucheru, Charles Murito, John Allan Namu, Wangari Muikia, Amunga Eshuchi, Rozy Rana, Derek Bbanga, Alex Kariuki and Raniah Oyatta. TEDx is a local gathering, where live TED-like talks are shared. The thinking behind TED is sharing ideas to change attitudes, lives and the world. Below are stories shared by some of the speakers.   ‘THE PRICELESS MENTALITY’ Mucheru, the managing partner at Gadhia & Mucheru Company Advocates, recounted her journey five years down the line since she exposed the troubles in her marriage to the world through her blog, Highway to heaven. Her speech was titled, ‘The priceless mentality’. Back in 2012, she became the talk of the town when she shared details of her husband’s infidelity. Unbeknownst to her, she was sinking into depression and one day she woke up in hospital, and the doctor who had treated her mother for mental illness was there.  She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Mucheru has moved on from the difficult situation, and she shared how a priceless mentality is key to a happy life. What others say about you is nowhere near as important as what God says about you and what you say about yourself, she said.  Oltesh, another speaker, talked about how he beat dangerously high levels of cholesterol, which he suffered from for five years but beat within three months. The key to achieving any goal is focus. That was the lesson in his talk.  Oltesh gave an account of how his breakfast consisted of savoury, unhealthy foods from meat, fried eggs and other delicacies. He came face-to-face with the reality that you are what you eat when he applied for a job and one of the requirements was to get a checkup before being made an offer. Being confident he was healthy, he did the checkup, but to his shock, he had high levels of cholesterol. Why this was a shock was because he is a slim man. He was given a regimen of drugs and fitness goals to achieve to get his cholesterol levels down to normal levels, and although he agreed to follow the regimen strictly, he fell off the wagon at a point. What woke him up into swift action is when he was warned his high levels of cholesterol could make him impotent. From then on, he committed to a healthy lifestyle and to date, he wakes up at around 5am to exercise. He went on to prove his high level of fitness by doing a couple of pushups right on the stage. His message overall called for nutrition and fitness for good health. Murito, the Google country manager, spoke about his passion for improving the lives of artists through monthly exhibitions he organises for them to showcase their work. He recounted a year he travelled to South Africa for an annual tech conference and came face-to-face with the disparities between the haves and the have-nots. While admiring the picturesque view from the Table Mountain in Cape Town, Murito noticed a slum nearby. He later found out 40 per cent of the inhabitants are living with HIV. The medical facilities are few and understaffed. Students from a nearby university volunteer at the health facilities, but they are still understaffed. Back home, the same disparities exist. There’s the Deep Sea slum near Parklands, Kibera near Highrise, and many others. While it might be challenging trying to alleviate every single slum-dweller from poverty, the little things count. Murito described how a brilliant artist had shared with him how hard it was for artists to get their worth for their work. Some who exhibited their work at galleries would have to part with between 30 and 70 per cent of their earnings in commissions. At the time, Murito had an apartment he was renovating, and he allowed a group of artists to showcase their work there.  Murito teamed up with artist Patrick Kinuthia to get other underpaid artists to showcase, and this has become a monthly affair, with the exhibition later moved to the Dusit d2 Hotel.  One artist told Murito he was able to buy materials to build his house from the earnings. The message was: start making a positive change in the world from where you are, and with that one person you know, you can help.  The theme of his speech was: “Be more selfish... and care for others.” The idea was everyone has a moral obligation to care for others, if for no other reason than so we can all have a safe environment that allows us to enjoy what we have in peace. Murito started organising art exhibitions in December 2014. The exhibitions started as a place where Murito’s friends were invited, but has since grown to be open to the public.   JOURNALISM AND THE FUTURE  Namu’s talk was titled: “Why good journalism must be at the heart of our future.” He shared what good journalism is supposed to do: inform, educate and entertain. However, many feel these three boxes are not being ticked, what with the era of fake news and “githeri” media. Namu said he likes Bob Marley because he was the people’s “newspaper”, addressing current affairs issues through his songs. The journalist called for good journalism in redefining the African identity. He said for Africa to move forward, good journalism must be paid for. Namu added that if the stories journalists tell do not change lives, why are they being told? He called for responsible journalism that tells the truth. Muthiga spoke about the challenges of being a young woman doctor. First, people mistook her emotions for lack of a backbone. Her speech was titled: “Feelings for who?” She spoke about how people have overlooked her in search of the ‘doctor’, only to find out that it was her. Being a young woman in a powerful position has come with its challenges, but Muthiga says she has taken them all in her stride. Eshuchi’s talk was titled: “Context is freedom.” He is an award-winning photographer. He spoke about how a viewer’s comment about one of his photographs changed his perspective and reason for photography. A picture is not just a picture. The context matters.   MILLENIALS AND MONEY HUNT Muikia talked about how her ambition put her at a crossroads with her former employer and she ended up leaving to start her own consultancy. Her speech was titled: “From upstart to jumpstart: Investing in the next generation.” She is a public finance consultant, and during the earlier years of her career, she was an ambitious woman who had her eyes set on career growth. However, Muikia says her seniors overlooked her many times, and when some of her ideas were actually implemented, other people took credit for them. This frustration made her branch out to start her own consultancy. Muikia says she found it interesting that the very company which had overlooked her was now engaging her for her consultancy services - such is life. Muikia is the principal consultant and managing director of Expertise Global Consulting.  She is also involved in equipping the youth with financial literacy skills through a web series called ‘Asking for a friend’, which she runs with her niece. Muikia believes in the potential of the youth, and she urged young people to pursue their dreams fearlessly. The question about what millennials really want out of a job came up — is it all about the money? Well, according to Muikia, although money is important, feeling appreciated is just as important. “We are not doing enough to mentor the youth about the realities of life,” she said.   IMPORTANCE OF SERVICE Oyatta is Mucheru’s 11-year-old daughter. The girl is articulate and inspired the audience with her speech on the theme: “My kind of leadership”. She talked about the importance of service. According to Oyatta, a good leader is born to be a helper. Rana is the CEO of Dormans Coffee and a distinguished Toastmaster. She spoke about the importance of shifting one’s mind to propel to higher heights.  Remember the glass is half full or half empty theory? It is true. How you view the world determines how life will treat you. As the saying goes: Life is 10 per cent of what happens to you and 90 per cent of how you react to it.  Rana challenged attendees to refocus the lens of their lives so as not to miss out on beautiful opportunities. The theme of her speech was: “Beyond a Fairytale.” Referring to a book by Viktor Frankl, she quoted, “You cannot pursue happiness, it must ensue.” Kariuki talked about the challenges facing the boy child. The theme of his speech was ‘Lost in the maze’. Bbanga is an image consultant. His speech was titled, “The beautiful truth.”   TEAM BEHIND THE TALKS  The speeches were inspiring. Broadcast journalist Victoria Rubadiri was the emcee. Auditor Grace Mdemu was the organiser and curator. Daisy Wanjie was the co-organiser.  The rest of the team included Grace Wamahiga, Peninah Wanjiku and Nyokabi Kimari.