I think President Kenyatta should take it upon himself to ensure that he negotiates with the Opposition. I believe the negotiations should be structured, like he has said before, and let him be honest about it.  The issues that he opposition is raising are genuine and legitimate and cannot be put under the rug. There are issues raised about electoral reforms and the constitutional dispensation that the opposition say needs to be re-engineered. President Uhuru makes frequent statements about bringing Kenyans together. We do not need a segmented and tribal nation after the presidential election.  If he wants to hold meetings with NASA leader Raila Odinga and his team, there is nothing wrong about it. I believe that the country is hurting after the election and, for sure, this country is not at the right place.  I think President Uhuru’s legacy will be based on whether he has left a united country after his second and last term. The country should not be united from the Jubilee perspective; he should open up and engage with the opposition as frequently as he can.  Let him be seen accompanied by Raila in various public functions so that he can be seen as the President of all Kenyans. This will reduce all these noises.  To me, the agenda that the President has on facilitating industrialization and creating low-income housing for Kenyans is okay.  But the President needs to understand that there are certain things pertaining to the economy of this country that are not delivering the results that we require.  I think he needs to sit down with his economic team and come up with tangible deliverables for Kenyans, especially the low-income earners.  If you live around Kileleshwa and Lavington, you will see so many people tarmacking every day to the Industrial Area. Uhuru needs to look at options on what needs to be done, especially here in Nairobi.  The low-income earning Kenyans are really hurting. If you sit down with individuals and listen to their complaints about the price of goods and commodities, you would realize that things are really tough for them. Uhuru needs to deal with this issue substantially.  I hope his administration would rollout the free secondary education he promised during the electioneering period, because a lot of the Kenyan public are actually suffering.  The writer is MP for Kitutu Chache South              