Wilson Sossion has criticised Education CS Fred Matiang'i for "interfering" with the conferment of an honorary degree on COTU boss Francis Atwoli. Masinde Muliro University has put off plans to award the secretary general the degree during its 12th graduation ceremony on Friday. Vice Chancellor Fred Otieno confirmed that the proposed award of Degree Humane Letters (Labour Relations) had been pushed. The university denied claims it was under pressure from the ministry to cancel the award on political grounds. "There is no politics in this. The postponement is because the process that is supposed to be followed before the award is not complete," Bob Mbori, MMUST spokesman, said. More on this: Masinde Muliro puts off Francis Atwoli's honorary degree award But Sossion tore into Matiang'i, claiming he "interfered" yet he is charged with protecting educational institutions' independent operations. The Nominated MP and KNUT secretary general said the decision indicated "outright interference" with the management of institutions of higher learning. He noted university senates and councils have the power to nominate people to honour through the awarding of degrees. Sossion said documents in the public domain indicate the institution followed procedure in reaching the decision to award Atwoli. "This illustrious recognition is in respect of the labour sector, locally and internationally, where Atwoli serves in various capacities including the President of the Organisation of African Trade Unions Unity and Vice President of the world body." The teachers' union boss also noted advertisements were run in the media with reasons why Atwoli would be honoured. Sossion said the COTU boss was one of the founders of MMUST. "I post my disappointment at the cancellation. In the same breath, I join other Kenyans with sound minds in demanding, in no equivocal terms, that Atwoli be honoured as approved by the University senate and council," he said. "In same vein, I appeal to MMUST management not to absorb political pressure and machinations from external forces which are out to frustrate the independence of university councils, in line with constitution." Click here for latest political news