2017 has left memories among Kenyans that will not wash away any time soon. From political demonstrations to strikes, students sitting for examinations, photographers in the country captured the moments for us all.  The photos brought about abundance of images to fill us with uncontainable joy, laughter, heartache, anger, sorrow, exhilaration, and wanderlust. Here are some:   The widow of murdered Kenyan election official Chris Msando is seen attending a Requiem Mass on Thursday in her husband's memory, with their youngest son by her side. Msando, who was in charge of Kenya's computerised voting system, was killed just days before the general election.  A Kenyan man sits on a street sign outside the Supreme Court in Nairobi where Chief Justice David Maraga ruled in favour of the opposition's petition to annul the results of August's presidential elections over voting irregularities. The road names on the sign were temporarily altered by the public in a tribute to the judge and to lawyer James Orengo, who brought the case. The repeat presidential vote was later won by Uhuru Kenyatta amid low voter turnout after his challenger Raila Odinga urged supporter...  Sometimes, you just need a little help. This little boy prays ahead of his primary school exams in Kenya's capital Nairobi.  Anti Riot police officers lobe teargas to National Super Alliance (NASA) coalition supporters along Moi Avenue as they demonstrated in the Central business district on October 11, 2017. Photo/Jack Owuor  Voters queue as they wait to cast their votes at NSSF Grounds in Nairobi CBD,Starehe constituency. Photo/Monicah Mwangi  President elect Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy William Ruto show their certificates after 2017 presidential repeat election at Bomas of Kenya. Photo/Monicah Mwangi  Opposition leaders Musalia Mudavadi (Amani) and Raila Odinga (ODM, Cord) during their tour of Eldoret, February 25,2017. /COURTESY  Amisom soldiers are seen submerged in the waters of the Indian Ocean during a marine patrol to keep the ocean safe in Mogadishu, Somalia. Photo/Monicah Mwangi  A screenshot of Dennis Ngengi recounting the accident on November 7, 2017 after which Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru.