Kenya Premier League champions Gor Mahia have been handed tricky tie against Equatorial Guinea champions Leones Vegetarianos FC after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) released the preliminary round fixtures yesterday. GOtv Shield champions AFC Leopards kick off their Confederations Cup campaign away in Madagascar, where they are scheduled to play against Fosa Juniors. If Gor Mahia make it past the preliminary round, they are scheduled to play the winner between ASAC Concorde of Mauritania and Tunisia’s Esperence, the side they beat in their 1987 Mandela Cup conquest. On the other hand, If Ingwe negotiate past their first round opponents, they will tackle the winner between Mauritian side AS Port Louis and Ngazi Sport from Comoros. Gor were dumped out of the Caf Champions League campaign by Cnpas of Madagascar in 2016 and in 2015, they lost to Leopards of Congo Brazzaville. Leones Vegetarianos was formed 17 years ago and will be making their maiden appearance in the Champions League having secured their domestic league title at the end of the 2017 season.Their only other major silverware came in 2014 when they won the Equatorial Guinea Cup. Meanwhile, Nigeria have been docked two points for fielding an ineligible player in a World Cup qualifier against Algeria but their place at next year’s finals in Russia has not been affected, Fifa said on Tuesday. Nigeria, who had already qualified for the finals, drew 1-1 but Fifa awarded the match to Algeria by a 3-0 scoreline after the Super Eagles fielded the ineligible Abdullahi Shehu who had failed to serve a one-match ban for accumulated yellow cards. “This sanction bears no impact on the final result of the preliminary competition for the Fifa World Cup since Nigeria had already qualified (and Algeria were eliminated) before the match took place,” soccer’s world governing body said in a statement. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) said on Twitter that it accepted the decision. “The NFF president (Amaju Pinnick) has directed that an internal inquiry be instituted immediately and persons found culpable be dealt with,” it added. Pinnick said: “I want to assure that persons responsible for this slip would not be given just a slap on the wrist. We are actually looking at a re-organization of the Technical Department.” Nigeria, who topped African Group B, finished on 12 points instead of 14, four clear of second-placed Zambia. Algeria still came bottom of the standings.] Nigeria will face Iceland, Croatia and Argentina in their World Cup group in Russia. East Timor had forfeited seven of the 10 games they played in the World Cup qualifiers for fielding nine players who were ineligible because of nationality.