The state has stepped up the fight against land fraud, Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi has said. The CS yesterday said the Sh17 billion land registries digitisation will get rid of cartels and brokers colluding with unscrupulous land officials to defraud Kenyans of their land. Kaimenyi said land fraud cases that had increased will be “a thing of the past” once the programme that started in 2016 is completed. He said all the land registries will be fully digitised in two years. The CS spoke when he made an impromptu visit to the Thika lands registry. “Once we digitise all registries and systems, we’ll reduce human-to-human contact and get rid of the cartels and brokers who have been terrorising Kenyans,” Kaimenyi said. “In all our offices, we have come up with an improved surveillance system – Biometric Control Guard – to track busybodies intending to conduct corrupt deals.” The CS put on notice all land officials who have been colluding with the cartels to steal land and cause misery. He said the ministry will crack down and wipe them out. “We will ensure they are apprehended and charged. This is one of our reforms to restore integrity in the ministry and end graft,” Kaimenyi said. Residents had petitioned the CS to shift some officials from the Thika lands office, complaining of poor services. “They should go and those willing to work for the public should be stationed here. They always take us round, even for months for something that could be done in minutes. Sanity must be restored in these offices,” resident Joseph Mwangi said. SERVE EVERYONE EQUALLY He said he has been visiting the offices for two months to get a lost title deed for his mother’s land — without success. The CS said all land officials must serve Kenyans equally and fairly, irrespective of their status. He said the reforms undertaken by the ministry will improve efficiency in services, transparency and confidence in land transactions. The CS also said the ministry will review the list of Kilimambogo squatters who were issued with title deeds by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June this year. This follows numerous complaints that some of those issued with the documents were non-locals. Some squatters have been complaining of double allocation of the parcels, while others claim they were omitted from the list of legitimate beneficiaries.. “Before issuing title deeds, we always get a list of the beneficiaries. In this case, we will review the list so as to pluck off those who are not bona fide landowners,” Kaimenyi said. Uhuru gave out more than 1,500 title deeds to the squatters on June 18 this year, when Jubilee campaigned for votes in Kiambu county.