National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has  refused to step in to help resolve ANC row over House leadership positions. Muturi told Lugari MP Ayub Savula on Thursday he has no powers to alter the decision by the opposition to appoint John Mbadi as Minority leader, Robert Mbui (deputy Minority leader), Junet Mohamed (Minority whip) and Chris Wamalwa (deputy Minority whip). “In directing the minority party to comply with its rules, I was cognisant of my limited role in the matter and the fact that any disputes arising from the procedure would be resolved purely according to the party’s rules and coalition agreement entered into,” he said. Read: NASA internal wrangles delay naming choices for House posts   Savula(ANC) who had expressed interest in the position of deputy Minority leader had told Muturi to intervene as the appointment of the four did not meet regional and gender balance. Muturi noted that under Standing Order 20, he has no role in appointments of both the Majority and Minority leadership in the House, saying as far as he is concerned, his role is to ensure the laid down procedure is followed. He said NASA followed that procedure and the minutes appointing the opposition leaders were submitted to his office. “Under the Standing Order, the election process is, and remains and internal affair of the minority party which communicates the outcome of the process in writing to the speaker,” Muturi said. He added, “The speaker’s duty thereafter is limited to ensuring the list is submitted by the Minority party accompanied by the minutes of the meeting at which the party made its decision.” The speaker told Savula to consider using the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal to have his grievances resolved. Muturi criticised NASA, saying the minority leadership does not meet the gender rule. He said Standing Order 20 ( 2 ) requires of the Minority leader to take gender balance into account when deciding the composition of the House leadership. “I have noted the concern raised by various members on the apparent gender imbalance in the House leadership of the minority party. Though direct intervention into the manner in which the minority party decides to constitute its leadership is outside my purview, I am not precluded from reminding the minority party of the two-thirds gender principle which is entrenched in the Constitution,” Muturi said. Click here for latest political news  