NASA and Jubilee are locked in a no-holds barred battle over electoral injustice. One party believe they won the 2017 presidential election in a fair contest whilst the other claims it was through well planned and calculated electoral fraud. Kenyans are caught up in the cross-fire and with opposition leader Raila Odinga threatening to swear himself in as “the People’s President” the nationwide apprehension is almost palpable. To add insult to injury there is a threat by certain communities to secede, which is causing further fear and anxiety by threatening the existence of the Republic of Kenya. A cursory look at our electoral history reveals several anomalies and, perhaps, fallacies. Our Independence election in 1963 just before Kenya achieved internal self-rule in June of that year can only be described as “a selection”. Jomo Kenyatta had achieved a heroic status whilst in political detention and was and remains the only Kenyan to unite all Kenyans behind one mission and vision, that of Independence. As Kenya’s first celebrity he was a natural choice for the presidency in 1964. In all fairness to Kenyatta, who would have won an election hands down, he was selected unopposed. The first Cabinet was also a selection of Kenyatta loyalists and cronies. As the old adage states “birds of a feather flock together” and it didn’t take long for them to engage in a frenzy of national looting. Massive parcels of public land were grabbed or “purchased” for a song through the Settlement Fund Trustees. Kenyatta acquired the princely acreage of 30,000 acres at Ngata, Nakuru, and Moi a royal 20,000 in neighbouring Kabarak. By 1965 there was a fallout in Cabinet due to the sheer intensity of looting. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga became severely critical of government policies. His book Not Yet Uhuru published in 1967 reveals most of the intrigues in government. During a Kanu delegates conference at Limuru in 1966 Kenyatta made the first move to cut Odinga’s political legs off from under him as Vice President of Kanu by splitting the vice presidency of the party to be shared between eight provincial leaders. Jaramogi responded by resigning and forming opposition party KPU. The 1969 parliamentary and presidential election was an anti-Odinga protest in which Kenyatta and his loyal cronies were elected unopposed. The 1974 election saw pro-Kenyatta loyalists reelected in an election controlled by the powerful Gema tribal enclave. Upon the demise of Kenyatta in 1978, then Vice President Daniel arap Moi swiftly galvanised political support through the provinces and was nominated unopposed as the second President of Kenya, completely outwitting the Mt Kenya Mafia who were out to exclude him from the presidential succession. Keenly aware of opposition, mainly from Nyanza and Central Provinces, he built up a ruthless dictatorship in which all dissent was crushed and Kenya became a de-facto one-party state. This marked the beginning of the Second Liberation, which was a clamour for multi-party democracy. Several leaders were detained without trial, amongst them Kenneth Matiba, Charles Rubia and Raila Odinga. It does not escape our attention that up to 1992 there was no electoral commission. Polls were carried out by a government employee, usually a glorified District Commissioner known as the Director of Elections. Moi manipulated elections, eventually appointing his bosom buddy Zacchaeus Chesoni as the first chairman of an electoral commission that was anything but independent. Thus he managed to hold on to power for a record 24 years. The first and perhaps the only democratic election in Kenya was held in 2002, when Mwai Kibaki ascended to the presidency. It was also a protest against Moi in which Uhuru Kenyatta was soundly trounced. By 2005 Kibaki had fallen out with Raila, leading to super-rigging in the shambolic 2007 election that witnessed massive post-election violence. In retrospect, it appears that some leaders acquired valuable lessons in the art of electronic electoral fraud and that knowledge is currently being employed with devastating effect. NASA is not whistling in the dark.