Twitter Inc said
on Monday it would begin putting a warning in front of pictures
that show Nazi swastikas and other items it determines are
hateful imagery, as well as ban their use in any profile photos
on the social media network. The step is one of several that Twitter said it would take
to crack down on white nationalists and other violent or hateful
groups, which have become unwelcome on a service that once took
an absolutist view of free speech. Twitter said in a statement it would shut down accounts
affiliated with non-government organizations that promote
violence against civilians, and ban user names that constitute a
violent threat or racial slur. It said it would also remove tweets that it determined
celebrate violence or glorify people who commit violence. Twitter, a San Francisco company founded in 2006, had called
itself "the free speech wing of the free speech party" and tried
to stay out of battles among users. But that has changed as
persistent harassers have driven some women and minorities off
Twitter, limiting their ability to express themselves. A rise in white nationalism in the United States has also
changed tech industry standards. In August, social media
networks began removing white nationalists after hundreds
gathered in Charlottesville, Virginia, and one of them was
charged with murdering a 32-year-old woman by running her down
in a car. In October, Twitter vowed to toughen rules on online sexual
harassment, bullying and other forms of misconduct. Tweets can still include hate imagery, but users will have
to click through a warning to see them, the company said. Hate
images will be banned from profile photos, and further
restricted where national laws require, as in Germany. The Nazi swastika was the only specific example of a hateful
image that Twitter gave, but the company said it would try to
give warnings for all symbols historically associated with hate
groups or which depict people as less than human. Twitter said it had decided not to categorize the U.S.
Confederate flag as hateful imagery, citing its place in
history.