Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has reiterated that he is not warming up to Jubilee. Oparanya on Tuesday accused idlers of spreading propaganda that he was in talks with Jubilee leaders to join the government. He accused former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale of engineering the rumours. “Those saying that I am in Jubilee are idlers who think we are still in the campaigns,” Oparanya said. He spoke when he visited Pan Paper in Lugari. “I have a job. What would I be going to do in Jubilee?” Oparanya said. It was the second time the governor was denying rumours linking him with Jubilee. Oparanya first denied that he was warming up to the ruling party during the campaigns for his re-election after Khalwale accused him of being a Jubilee mole. The governor was said to be negotiating with Deputy President William Ruto about the possibility of becoming the latter’s running mate in 2022. Oparanya’s demeanour has left tongues wagging about his loyalty to the opposition agenda. His no-show in NASA activities, after the August 8 general election, raised eyebrows about his commitment to the opposition cause. Oparanya skipped most NASA rallies organised in Western, as NASA pushed for electoral reforms following the nullification of the August 8 presidential election by the Supreme Court. Talk that he was planning to ditch NASA, was also fueled by reports that his handlers were in the process of registering a new political party. Oparanya has repeatedly said he will go for a higher office in 2022. “What other seat can I go for after serving as governor? I have told Raila Odinga that he is remaining with one bullet and he must aim properly to ensure he finds the target because in 2022, I will try my luck,” Oparanya told his reelection campaign rallies. In Lugari, Oparanya urged residents to focus on development, saying, “we have been in campaigns for six months.” He was accompanied by area MP Ayub Savula. Should Oparanya opt to join the race for the presidency, he will have to face-off with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula for Western support. Both Mudavadi and Wetang’ula are co-principals in NASA and have declared their interest in running for the presidency in 2022.