A witness in an election petition filed by Buuri constituency PNU candidate Mugambi Angaine in the August 8 elections told the court on Tuesday he participated in buying voters IDs for Jubilee candidate Rindikiri Muruithania. Angaine filed a petition challenging Rindikiri's victory citing irregularities and wants a retally o f of the votes in the constituency. Eric Murithi Muthinja told the court that he was a Jubilee party agent mobiliser assigned to buy votes by Kiirua Naari Ward Jubilee chief agent Michael Igweta. Even after being questioned during the cross-examination by IEBC lawyer Charles Mwongela and Rindkiri's lawyer Muthomi Thiankolu if he ever new it was against the law, he vowed to stick to his court affidavits. When asked why he sworn an affidavit indicating that he was a Jubilee party agent whereas he was a PNU agent and even had signed IEBC forms as PNU agent. Murithi stated his work on the voting day was not at the polling station but "I had been assigned to coordinate with Igweta, the Kirua Naari Ward chief agent to buy ID cards from voters who appeared not friendly to JP candidate." The hearing of the petition started yesterday before the Meru high court Judge Ann Ong'njo. When he was asked to show the reason the court could believe in his testimony. He said he did no wrong and IEBC should take initiative of educating people on the need to exercise their right and not be bribed. He said he was being paid Sh. 1,000-5, 000 from August 5 to early August 8 and within the same period they had bought around 800 IDs. When tasked to explain to court why he should not be liable for his misdeeds by the advocates, he responded saying "I was a die hard supporter of Angaine, he sought me to be his witness. I was a close friend of Angaine and because I was given a job, I bought IDs." In his sworn in affidavits on September 5, 2017, Murithi stated that "from August 5 to the early August 8 we managed to purchase around 800 ID cards which belonged to voters aligned to the PNU candidate. That after election, all bought ID cards were returned back to their respective owners. That I wish to state that the act of buying these ID cards was meant to stop the owners from voting for PNU parliamentary candidate." The affidavit reads.