MCAs and residents have complained about some youth in estates who demand money from them for garbage collection. The youth are said to move door to door demanding the cash which ranges from Sh50-Sh1,000, depending on the estate. People living in high-end areas like Karen, Kileleshwa, Runda and Upper Hill pay the highest amount. Those in other estates, especially in Eastlands, part with between Sh100 and 500 per month. “We have to pay, because if you don't, they just throw the trash right in front of your door,” Paul Kosgei, a BuruBuru resident said. Payments for sewerage services and garbage collection used to be included in water bills paid by residents monthly to NWSC, but Nahashon Muguna, acting managing director, said payment for garbage collection was separated from sewerage services and water bill. "We separated them in 2005. What is paid together with water bill is sewerage services. If you are connected to our sewer, you pay 75 per cent of your water bill," he said. Woodley MCA Mwangi Njihia said the practice is common in his ward and blamed the county government for it. “This is unlawful. It is the work of the county government to collect garbage because residents pay taxes. This is extortion,” Njihia said. He said the county environment officers who are supposed to clean the area no longer do their work and are focused on their private businesses. “These people are paid by the county to do the cleaning but they don't do it. So you find the residents are harassed by people who do not even identify themselves,” he added. The ward rep argued the youth are responsible for filth in the estates as they dump the waste on the roads because they do not have trucks to transport the waste to Dandora dumpsite. But Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia said the county privatized garbage collections and youth who collect the garbage belong to community based organisations in the estates. He said payments for water, sewerage services and garbage collection are different services and their payments were also separated. Garbage in the city is normally collected by the county government and private contractors. But since Governor Mike Sonko took over, youth, working under Sonko Rescue Team, have been doing the work. Karen MCA David Mberia said most of the youth are jobless and are exploiting an opportunity that has been created by laxity in the environment department. He said that during the City Council days, garbage trucks used to be provided to every ward and they would collect the trash every morning. “We used to have clear garbage collection points where residents dump the waste and then they are collected very early in the morning. This no longer happen,” Mberia said. Two weeks ago, Muthoni flagged off 60 garbage trucks to reinforce collection in all the wards.