Recently, a renowned
journalist in one of our dailies wrote an article about Kenya in his regular
Friday column. In the article, he waxed lyrical about the beauty of Kenya; its
people, its landscape, and even, I believe, he talked about the gold-hued sunsets
in the plains. Reading that article, you could almost hear Roger Whittaker’s, My Land is Kenya playing in the back of
your mind.   The Friday after, the
journalist shared with us that he had received a letter from a young man about
the piece he wrote on Kenya and its beauty. 
The lad’s letter was basically shouting down the Kenya is beautiful
article, with the chap claiming — in his — letter that only rich people, who
can afford to travel (such as the journalist), see this country as beautiful.
Otherwise, as far as the young man was concerned, Kenya is a bad and ugly
place.
  One sees this spreading of
negativity quite a bit nowadays. Not sure whether the reason for this is a rise
in negative energy, or whether it’s just that the internet has facilitated the
wide distribution of wet blanket vibes. But, I don’t care, I do wonder though
what makes people like the letter writing young man tick, and why his sort feel
compelled to dish out negativity liberally.
  This is what we know about
negative people. They’re always unhappy and miserable. And, they’ve conditioned
themselves to always focus on the negative.
  What you probably didn’t know
is that negative people are not bad people, they’re just scared people.
  Here’s the skinny. Overly
pessimistic and sceptical people are really just afraid. They have been
disappointed and hurt so many times in the past that they've taken to having a
negative attitude to protect themselves from further pain. Maybe they tried something, starting a small business
perhaps, and it didn’t work, or they failed at something like finding a job;
the pessimism and negativity that follows is a reaction to these past bad
experiences. And so, devoid of hope of anything working, battered by maisha from every direction, they give
up, and lose the ability to both dream and get excited about anything. They are
so terrified of maisha zeroing in on
them again, they stand completely still. Thus, afraid to get their hopes up,
they lash out at anything that might just do that.
  Kenya is indeed a tough going
kind of place for the majority but there is no perfect place anywhere. Only in
religious text is there mention of such a place, and even then, to get there
you have to die first. And so what are you left with?
  Just
the one thing really, keeping your head up, eyes fixed to the sky looking out
for that silver lining.  And by the way,
the idea of clouds having silver linings comes from the fact that when the sun (or moon) is
about to burst through a dark cloud, the cloud looks like it has a silver
outline.
  You see, it can’t rain
forever, but if your head is bowed, gaze fixed downwards all the time, your
view won’t be of any rays of light, it’ll just be that of mud, sludge, and
quite possibly an open sewer.
  You can look to the sky, or
stare at crap. You choose. 