Sugar brought a rush of people and prosperity to the drab
highway stop in southern Zambia they now call "Sweet Town" - and
with that trade came AIDS. To mine copper or cut cane, outsiders descended on scruffy,
fast-growing towns like Mazabuka, hoping to make a new life and
where the men went, a sex industry followed with local women
touring bars, inns and truck stops to sell sex to newcomers. It was a perfect storm for the AIDS epidemic. "There was a huge mobile population and the district was
simply too overwhelmed with men who came without their spouses,"
Jabez Kanyanda, an expert on AIDS, told the Thomson Reuters
Foundation during a tour of the Southern Province of Zambia
where he leads an HIV prevention programme. Zambia was one of the world's worst hit countries, part of
an African "AIDS belt" that left millions dead, with 70,000
people dying a year in the southern African nation at the height
of the epidemic in 2003, according to UNAIDS data. HIV prevalence along key transport routes was especially
high, as men and women moved en masse seeking a better life. "At the peak of the epidemic, no treatment was available. We
had a lot of orphans, a lot of widows, a lot of widowers," said
Kanyanda. "The doctors knew, of course, but there was nothing they
could do ... Every day, you'd pass the graveyard and see people
moaning, wailing - yet another funeral." The roadside graveyard adjoins the hospital - a crowded
field of makeshift memorials and formal headstones, trees
arching over red-earth mounds that mark the many dead. Hand-scrawled signs point to an agony of lost babies:
"beloved daughter Gladsy Mainza" aged two; nearby lies Tia
Jonga, who died on Nov. 7, at under four months old. "In our hospital setup, every bed space was taken by
someone with HIV. In the mortuary, every day, two, three dead
bodies," Stephen Shajanika, Mazabuka's District Health
Commissioner, recalled in an interview. Now the people of Zambia have moved on from the worst and
are learning to live with its aftermath, helped by a
military-style campaign to spread information, test those most
at risk, and prescribe drugs to keep AIDS at bay. "We are trying to root out every HIV-positive person. We
want to find them. We want to test them. We will do our part and
then we empower people who take it very seriously," said
Kanyanda. SWEET TOWN As the centre of the nation's sugar industry, Mazabuka
squats on a busy road in land-locked Zambia, a land of transit
criss-crossed by truckers from eight neighbouring countries. As the cane grew, the people followed - pickers from the
west, executives from Mauritius and South Africa, European
funders and African lorry drivers. Women had less way to gain. "I've stopped now but it was just the total poverty. You
sleep with men to buy food. We just had no money to pay the
house rental," said Beauty, a 34-year-old former sex worker who
now sells sausages. "I'm a different women now." Beauty is not the only one to change. Testing for the HIV virus is up, knowledge has increased
and, most importantly, drugs are available to control the spread
of the virus and stop it developing into AIDS. The United Nations estimates there are still 250 new
infections a day in Zambia, but that has dropped 27 percent
since 2010 and AIDS-related deaths have fallen 11 percent. Part of this is due to campaigns like the one run by DAPP, a
local NGO that invented a seemingly simple strategy to secure a
military-style "Total Control of the Epidemic". Conducted one-on-one, door-to-door, this all-out war aims to
mobilise individuals to control their own health and, to that
end, has reached more than 1.5 million of 16.5 million Zambians. Field officers, special forces and troop commanders man the
front and rally the troops - the language is no accident. "We were going in for a fight," said Division Commander
Kanyanda. "We needed to organise ourselves like military and show we
are in a serious business, fighting a fight with a clear line of
command." MILITARY CAMPAIGN At the grass roots, DAPP field officers go hut-to-hut to
share stories, win trust and encourage testing, carrying mobile
testing kits - a finger pinprick - giving results in 15 minutes. Truckers get free condoms and lessons on their usage while
former sex workers tour bars to spread the message, and revered
chieftains go public about their HIV tests to smash stigma. Each strand is another part of the "Total Control" strategy,
which began in neighbouring Zimbabwe in 2000, came to "Sweet
Town" in 2006, then moved to nearby Sinazongwe two years ago. Sinazongwe's governor - the top government man in a district
of nearly 200,000 people - says the plan is working. "The government will fight HIV/AIDS to the last drop of our
blood because it almost wiped out Africans," District
Commissioner Protacia Mulenga, the government's top official in
the region, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "But I'm the governor here and believe me, the government
cannot reach where DAPP has reached." Mulenga is no bureaucratic bystander to the epidemic. Two of
his brothers died of AIDS. His sister is HIV-positive and he
cares for her children. "I saw my brothers dying in pain. There was no treatment,"
he said. "But now when someone has learnt their status, there's a new
control ... They refrain from blood sharing and careless sex. "What we have done in Zambia needs extending to other
countries. The best experience was learnt here and it needs to
penetrate further."