NASA MPs have demanded the audit of KNEC results saying Education CS Fred Matiang'i's approach indicated possible interference by the Executive. They said on Wednesday that they had written to Speaker Justin Muturi for Parliament to be recalled so they can get explanations. They want to understand the "shockingly serendipitous massive failures by candidates, a phenomenon never witnessed before in the annals of our country". "We implore you to recall Honourable Members of Parliament from recess, for a special sitting of the house pursuant to Standing Order number 29, to debate the 2017 KCSE results," Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said in the letter to Muturi. "The Impeachment of [Education Cabinet Secretary Fred] Matiangi is among the cards on the table." Earlier today, Lugari MP Ayub Savula said NASA legislators will reject Matiang'i's reappointment as Education minister as his reforms are not well planned. The legislator accused the Cabinet Secretary of messing up the sector through hurried reforms and said he is not fit to head the ministry. More on this: Matiang'i a disaster, NASA MPs will reject his reappointment - Savula Amisi, who was with Uriri's Mark Ogolla, said the CS must explain to the country how many students ended up failing. This, he noted, has led to cries by parents and "dwindled hopes for candidates, whose fate has been confined to the ugliest corners of history, by this utterly discriminatory and indecipherable archaic marking and grading system." The matter cannot be taken lightly, he said. The lawmaker noted they have paid close attention to views by the public, 2017 candidates, industry experts and other key stakeholders, whom he said have cast doubts on the probity of the results. "[The results] serve no impetus but to imperil the future of our kids. We have arrived at a fairly merited conclusion that due indulgence of the National Assembly on the matter of the integrity of 2017 KCSE results is urgently needed as a matter of grave public interest," he said. "No matter how you look at it, the results are compellingly questionable." MPs announced their position hours after KNUT secretary general Wilson Sossion raised his concerns. In a statement, Sossion noted more than 300,000 students could have failed the exams and that only 70,000 qualified for university education.  NASA leader Raila Odinga has joined teachers' unions in calling for an inquiry into the poor performance. Matiang'i has been criticised sharply for transferring 557 principals following the announcement of the results. More on this: KNUT rejects 'fraudulent' KCSE 2017 results, demands audit Also read: KCSE 2017: Raila calls for talks after 80 per cent miss varsity entry points Click here for the latest political news