The 2017 KCSE results are confirmation of what we have been saying for a very long time: There has not been very effective teaching happening in the schools.  Of course there are always excuses as to why the performance was not as good, for instance, some schools being too ill equipped to be able to prepare students fully.  But all in all, I think the results are no different from what happened last year. Last year, the number of Es was equally big. So, with the tightened administration of examinations, you can see that many students are caught off-guard and probably the teachers have not adjusted themselves to now teach.  In a span of the last 10 years, we have not been had teaching, we have just been having examinations being taught in schools. So that could probably explain why many students are not looking like they were well prepared.  The skew at the top, you can see we only have very few As, 142 which is an improvement of exactly one from 141 on last year.  But if you look at this trend, this is what was happening many years ago. You could actually have one A in an entire district.  But between 2005 and 2015, we lived a lie, because the examinations were leaked and people were actually being given grades that were not the actual assessment of their abilities. But the current examinations system does not give the true quality of a child: This why the curriculum is being changed.  The current examinations system only tests one area. So you will find that it favours a child who is gifted with their cognitive domain.  For example, some students are very poor in math, chemistry and so on, but they would be very good in the craftwork and the technical work.  But not all our schools are equipped to teach and assess these subjects. The curriculum change will actually provide a very good opportunity for us. However, it’s actually not true that the girls are doing better than the boys. We are are at parity level. Because the statistics looks like 49-51.  You cannot really call that a variance. Men, because they are below and they used to be at the top, now think there is a problem. There is no problem. The writer is Education, Youth, Gender, Sports, Culture and Social Services CEC in Nairobi County 