Elections have become “deathtraps” and this must be stopped to avoid anarchy, ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit has said. Sapit on Friday said recent poll-related violence should be lessons for all Kenyans on how crucial it is to fix injustices so wananchi can live in peace. Police have been blamed for indiscriminate shooting when dealing with protesters. On Tuesday, seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda was shot while playing on the balcony of a neighbour’s house in Embakasi East, Nairobi. This caused public outcry. Police blame opposition protesters and criminal gangs for the violence. Sapit urged Kenyans to ensure violence does not recur. It has been painful to see scores of people die, he said. Sapit said Kenya must find lasting solutions to widespread disgruntlement that is becoming the new normal in every five-year electoral cycle. “We need to start talking about economic inequality, exclusion, alienation and other issues that a section of Kenyans have been complaining about so we can look for solutions,” he said. He spoke in Murang’a during the 90th birthday celebration of former Bishop John Mahia-ini. The sharp divisions in the country call for a conversation so we can heal and ensure no region feels neglected or discriminated against, Sapit said. He said talking about problems is the only way to avoid electoral crises. Unless that is done, the country may plunge into an “irredeemable catastrophe,” Sapit said. Without open talks, hate may boil over and the situation may be worse during the next election, he said. Dissent should not be suppressed, Sapit added. “Let’s begin a journey of healing by talking about what is wrong with our processes of getting leadership because we have been witnessing people die during every election,” Sapit said. Kenyans must sober up and put the elections behind them to allow the nation to heal, he added. The elections have divided the country along regional, ethnic and political lines. “All that needs to be healed and that is what the church wants to embark on, to rebuild the lives of ordinary Kenyans,” Sapit said. He urged the church to promote the message of restoration “so the broken hearts can recover”. Sapit told politicians to end the elections fever to allow people to resume development activities. He said the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold results of the presidential rerun halted the political season and it is time leaders promoted unity.