Kenya’s top seed Ismael Changawa is the StarTimes/SJAK sports personality for the month of November. The American-based player beat Geoffrey Kamworor, who won his first major marathon in New York New, veteran chess player, Steve Ouma (a Fide Master) and KCB’s Ken Moseti, who scored the winning drop for KCB against Homeboyz at the semifinals of the Impala Floodlit tournament and played a pivotal role in the final against Impala. 21-year old Changawa had an outstanding month winning the Rwanda Open after beating top seed Duncan Mugabe 6-1 6-2 in the final. He did not drop a set throughout the tournament. A week later, he won the Malawi Open after defeating Zambia’s Edgar Kazembe 6-2 7-5 — without dropping a set. He then partnered with Ibrahim Kibet to win the men’s doubles with a 6-1 6-4 win over the pair of Kazembe and Liberty Ndula. Changawa is currently playing at the Karen Open, where he is set for a semifinal battle with Ibrahim Kibet.  “This is beyond my imagination. At no point would I have ever thought I will be awarded for being the best personality of the month in Kenya. This is such a great surprise, thank you StarTimes for being the sponsors and SJAK for considering me for this prize. This truly goes a long way to inspire and motivate me to work harder. It is also an inspiration to other tennis players,” said Changawa. He walked away with a trophy, StarTimes 42 inch digital television set and Sh100,000.  “Congratulations Changawa for emerging Kenya’s best sports personality for the month of November. Victories away in Rwanda and Malawi are exploits we truly need to celebrate. As a brand, StarTimes will endeavor to encourage our sports men and women through these monthly awards as a way of recognizing their dedicated efforts on the field. I am excited that this far SJAK has awarded four various deserving sports - athletics, rugby, volleyball and now tennis, this is a prove that Kenya is truly a sporting talent” noted StarTimes Director of Marketing and PR Mr. Japhet Akhulia.