NASA leader Raila Odinga’s statement about his swearing in as President has understandably divided the nation — if one might describe Kenya as a “nation”. He seems to be losing the sympathy even of some of his close supporters for his persistence to be so sworn in. And his colleagues seem ready to leave him, as they realise he is unable to bestow money or office on them. As usual, the diplomatic community is worried about violence — and not concerned about the illegality and the unfairness of the conduct that has led Kenyans into this crisis. Those who accuse Raila of treason should review the legality of their own acts that has led us into this crisis. The Attorney-General is pontificating to him when people feel the AG could have done more to ensure free and fair elections. I have every sympathy for Raila’s sense of betrayal. He is a victim of the disregard for the norms of fair electoral process by those in authority and the general principles that underlie our constitution. REASONS FOR BITTERNESS Those who are being very righteous about Raila’s conduct should think how they would feel if they were in his position. I do not mean only his deep sense of having been cheated of his victory as president in the last elections. The cause of anger goes back a long time. Raila was cheated more than once by Mwai Kibaki of high state office, including presidency, especially when Kibaki’s own accession to the presidency was owed to Raila’s lobbying for his victory. Yet Kibaki did not keep his promise (in a solemn document) to ensure Raila’s appointment as prime minister, with an equal number of ministers from their respective parties (choosing instead a disproportionate number of ministers from the Mt Kenya region); and then election as President. Many people believe, with good reason, that Raila was cheated out of presidential victory in 2007, 2013 and 2017. Nor has his great struggle for democracy and freedom after Jomo Kenyatta and Moi established highly authoritarian rule, which led to his long spells in detention, been fully recognised. Raila fought hard for the new constitution, and it was his persistence that led to the present constitution, against firm opposition from Kibaki and several of his close comrades, who preferred the Moi constitution — and have continued to occupy high office — a fact that is seldom acknowledged. WHY NOT PRESIDENCY So Raila’s frustration is understandable. And yet I feel that he should abandon his determination to be anointed as President — not only because none of our presidents has been a person of integrity. Ministerial position has not been his forte. Nor does Kenya politics, deeply rooted in tribalism, suit him when he has a vision of Kenya as a nation. That vision will also suffer greatly, in the event that he is sworn as “President”, for this will provide this blood-thirsty government with the opportunity to deploy its armed forces, with the consequence of more murders and the effective occupation of vast sections of the country. And given Kenya politics, Raila will lose his “ardent” supporters, who will now no doubt seek Uhuru’s patronage, as some have done already. Undoubtedly Uhuru would destroy any basis there might be for him to initiate policies for development and justice in areas he “occupies”. There is much talk of secession, but in these circumstances, the supporters of secession would not have the ability to bring it about. A major crisis will arise — and there is every likelihood that Raila and his team will be blamed for the consequences. This would undermine his status and standing. WHY BABA WA TAIFA But I have a positive reason for Raila’s abandoning the idea of presidency. It is to find a role outside the structures of the state, in order to reshape Kenya. We should proclaim him as the Baba wa Taifa (Father of the Nation), accepted even by those who are not his ardent supporters. This is not an official role; its strength lies in people’s proclamation and acceptance of this title and role, and Raila’s conduct as the national leader. His strength will not come from money or armed force, but his wisdom and sacrifice. The person who made the greatest contribution to the freedom and unity of India and won the support of an overwhelming number of Indians was Mahatma Gandhi. In the US, Martin Luther King inspired a whole nation without any formal state office. So did Nelson Mandela, both before he became and after he ceased to be President. Julius Nyerere continued to influence Tanzanians well after he resigned as President. They were able to achieve these goals because people trusted them, and believed in their good faith and integrity. There is no reason why Raila cannot play that role. His stature and achievements are infinitely superior to those of Uhuru — as are the sacrifices he has made for democracy in Kenya. In his role as Baba wa Taifa, he would have little pressure to provide posts or money to his political friends, and keep the party united. He will have more time to go round the country, meeting, listening and talking to people, criticising official policies when necessary, and propounding his own policies based on the values of the constitution. \that would be fantastic for the country: giving us goals and policies, moving us away from ethnicity and petty conflicts, the exploitation of the workers and other vulnerable people. In this way, Raila will have an infinitely more influence on national affairs and policies than Uhuru. Indeed, he would show Uhuru as a President without a vision, self-centred, and unable to inspire the people. AAnd hopefully, people will turn away from narrow ethnic politics and being driven by selfish interests and look to the broader interests and welfare of the entire community that is Kenya, with justice for all. CONFERMENT OF THE TITLE  Unlike the conferment of the presidency under the constitution, there is no rule for the conferment of the title of Baba wa Taifa. This is an entirely good thing — acknowledging that the people have on their own conferred the title; nothing is owed to the state. People are free to choose the ceremony for this purpose. The government cannot claim that the conferment of this title (which they have freely chosen on their own) is an act of treason. There should be a high degree of support for the conferment — support spread throughout the country, as democracy is based on the sovereignty of the people. The ceremony should be in an open space — to signify its popular character (unlike Kibaki’s secret ceremony as President). A representative group of the people who support the conferment of the title should be set up to organise the ceremony. The recipient, in this case Raila Odinga, would be expected to outline his vision of Kenya as a political and social community, and the policies that go with them. Thereafter, he would be expected to travel round the country, listening to the people and stating his vision and policies. In due course, perhaps national and county governments would pay attention to take the recommendations of the Baba — all peaceful.