The government has been accused of using excessive force to counter violent extremism in Northeastern. Garissa human rights defenders and officials from the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights said for two years, the commission has received more than 100 cases of human rights violations in Garissa alone. Most of the cases were reported immediately after the Garissa University raid that claimed the lives of 148 people on April 2, 2015. Some of the victims include business people, clerics and their relatives, madrasa teachers and M-Pesa agents. The violations cited range from extrajudicial killings to enforced disappearance, unlawful detention and torture. Human rights campaigners held processions in Garissa town led by KNCHR regional coordinator Thuo Kinyanjui. They marked Human Rights Day. The human rights crusaders said threats and intimidation of witnesses have been their primary challenges in investigating human rights violations. Mukhtar Dahir, the head of Garissa Human Rights Defenders, said the abuses perpetrated by the military are the worst to investigate since having them testify in cases is difficult. “We all know that the military has been used to counter violent extremism in the region. It has always been a big challenge to investigate them when they are mentioned by the victims in some of the cases,” Dahir said. Some KNCHR officials said the biggest challenge in their bid to seek justice for the victims has been threats to families from the security forces and getting witness protection. One official said, “We have had cases where some of the victims have directly accused the military of torture, forced disappearance and sometimes murder. But they fear to come to provide the same information to the KNCHR officials, fearing for their lives.” The commission is helping 11 families seek justice through the court. “It is unfortunate that the military commits all manner of atrocities but go unpunished. The crisis is of international magnitude,” a KNCHR official added.