Vihiga United Football club head coach Edward Manoah has resigned barely two weeks after he led the team to the Sportspesa Premier League. Manoa has sighted failure by the county government to initiate negotiations for a new contract as the main factor. He said the Vihiga County government, team sponsors, could have done better in terms of negotiations as preseason training draws closer. Manoah said his contract ends on April 1, 2018, but no one is talking about an extension. He has been in charge of the team since its inception in 2014 when they joined the National Division One Zone ‘B’ league. Manoah insisted he doesn’t regret his time at the helm of the team. In addition, he alleges there was political interference from some incoming officials at the county, who have seen him as a project of the former governor, Moses Akaranga. “If that is true, we wouldn’t have won the National Super League, leave alone reaching the Gotv Shield semis,” said the former AFC Leopards and Homeboyz coach. He thanked Vihiga county governor Wilbur Otichilo for picking up from where Akaranga left but insisted that Otichilo’s handlers don’t have the interests of the team at heart. In addition, he has called on Otichilo to fast-track allowances and bonuses for close to 20 matches. Manoah said his departure was not influenced by any offer from the top Premier League sides. “I have been having offers all along. Many teams have been chasing for my signature because they know my good work,” said the first civilian to coach Ulinzi Stars. Manoah’s exit leaves the team in a state of uncertainty since most of Vihiga United players have known no other coach. “Manoah is not the beginning nor the end of football,” he told the players, urging them to remain focused if they are to achieve their goals. Vihiga United chairman, Kahi Indimuli said he learned of Manoah’s departure on Bamba Sports twitter handle. He said: “I talked to him (Manoah) yesterday (Thursday) night and he showed no indication that he might be leaving.” He said the exit is a huge blow to the team, considering that preseason is around the corner.