A mother who drowned her two children and later confessed to killing them has been found guilty of two counts of murder. Justice Mary Kasango ruled the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that Ann Wamaitha murdered her children aged six and nine years old on May 30, 2014. The judge said the evidence of the prosecution in totality pointed to Wamaitha’s guilt and the court was satisfied her confession was voluntarily made, therefore admissible in court.  “I therefore hereby convict her of the two counts of the offence of murder of V K W and Y N W,” the judge ruled. The two children died by drowning in a hole in a dry dam. The dam was next to Wamaitha’s parents’ home in Nanyuki, where she lived with the children. Doctor Joseph Karimi, who conducted postmortems on the bodies, said he found no external injuries, but, the lungs were full of water. The conclusion of the doctor in respect of both children was that both died of “asphyxiation” following drowning. Witnesses who testified, including the grandmother, said Wamaitha was seen with her children in the morning.  Their bodies were later discovered afloat in the dam. Initially, she denied being involved in the killing, but she later spilled the beans, asking the police to stop further investigations. “I confess that I am the one who drowned Y N W and V K W in a deep pond at Wangwaci resulting in their death,” she told police officers. Analysing the facts of the case, the judge noted Wamaitha confessed to the police she killed her own children. When she was given an opportunity to add or alter the confession during the trial, she did not. It was the judge’s view that the evidence of other witnesses corroborated her confession. She said from the evidence of the doctor, the cause of death was drowning. “In my view, considering the above circumstances, the prosecution discharged the onus of proving the confession was voluntarily made,” the judge added. Cases of mothers killing their children are not new. In June, police in Embu arrested a woman for killing her two-day old baby. Police said the 30-year-old woman - a mother of four - murdered the baby before dumping her body in an abandoned pit latrine. A chief told reporters the woman was arrested after her neighbours tiped off security officials. “She gave birth to the little girl on Thursday, but through the Nyumba Kumi initiative her neighbours noticed something was wrong,” he said.  