Multiple league champions Kenya Police could lose the 2017 National League title once investigations into computer scoring tampering are complete. Following allegations of match fixing at the close of the season ender in Kongowea, Mombasa, Boxing Association of Kenya president John Kameta promised to mitigate the never ending “culture of impunity”. “After bringing in independent IT experts to scrutinise BAK scoring computers, I can assure you that investigations are at an advanced stage. Let me say at this juncture that we will surely get to bottom of the match-fixing allegations and biased officiating during the fifth and final leg of the National Boxing league in Kongowea. What happened in Kongowea will set a precedence for a clean sport in boxing and there is no gainsaying that heads will surely roll,” said Kameta. Allegations of biased officiating cropped up during the semi-finals of the season ender, where some boxers from Kenya Defence Forces and Nairobi were believed to have been unfairly denied victory, handing their rivals an advantage. What this means is that Police team better known as ‘Chafua Chafua’ will have to cool their heels and will know their fate on “boxing day”. “We will surely make a drastic decision once AIBA investigations into computer scoring tampering are done. And we shall make an official announcement on boxing day to shed light on the fiasco but this verdict could indeed affect the final standings on the 2017 boxing log,” averred.  Kenya Police’s ‘Chafua Chafua’ retained the league title with 103 points, beating perennial rivals Kenya Defence Forces by a point at Uwanja wa Mbuzi grounds in Kongowea, an occurrence which didn’t go down well with some teams.  Kameta, however, confirmed that the local investigations are complete and they have indeeded detected tampering of our computer scoring system. A new scoring system used during the Olympic boxing competition in Rio de Janeiro also drew favourable reviews after replacing the previous system that generated outrage around the world. Nairobi coach Musa Benjamin was left to rue the trend, adding that if allegations into match fixing go unabated, it would set a very bad precedence. “What happened in Mombasa was disgusting. I hope the investigations will create room for a clean sport which we all adore,” said Musa, a former Kenya junior team coach, adding: “ From my experience in boxing, I can confidently say there was cheating but we will wait and see what the report from AIBA will reveal.”