The US has asked Raila Odinga to drop his swearing-in plan and pursue dialogue with President Uhuru Kenyatta. As Uhuru was being inaugurated on November 28, the Opposition leader announced that he will become President of the People's Republic of Kenya on December 12. On Wednesday, the NASA coalition asked counties that have favoured the People's Assembly motion to give dates for the ceremony to take place. Through his adviser Salim Lone, Raila has also said he will meet Uhuru for talks should an agenda be agreed up. More on this: NASA asks People's Assembly counties for Raila swearing-in venue Also read: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila Donald Yamamoto, who is US Acting Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, called for immediate, sustained, open and transparent national conversation. Yamamoto noted such a process, involving all Kenyans, will build unity, address long-standing issues and help resolve the deep divisions the long electoral process worsened. "The United States also urges Opposition leaders to work within Kenya’s laws to pursue the reforms they seek and avoid extra-constitutional actions such as the proposed inauguration ceremony." The ceremony has been set for the same day as the 54th anniversary of Kenya's independence. Details remain scanty but sources within the Opposition say the plan is not mere political talk. [VIDEO] I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Yamamoto noted Kenya is a critical partner for the US and a leader in Africa. He said this is why he visited and had talks with government officials, civil society representatives and Opposition leaders on key issues. The Secretary called on Kenyans to uphold the constitution by respecting an independent judiciary, protecting the democratic space for a vibrant civil society and media and ensuring all citizens have the right to express their views. "We remain deeply concerned by the recent outbreaks of violence. Security services have a responsibility to show maximum restraint at all times and to protect the right of citizens to assemble." He further called for independent investigations into claims police used excessive force so those culpable are punished. "Protesters exercising their constitutional rights have an obligation to do so peacefully," he said. Yamamoto affirmed the US government's support for Uhuru's government for the next five years, saying it will deepen a partnership that has lasted more than 50 years. "We are committed to working closely with the Kenyan government and people to strengthen further our excellent ties and to enhance security, democracy, and prosperity for everyone." Click here for the latest political news