Harambee Stars and Sofapaka left back Wesley Onguso is aiming to exit Sofapaka in search of playing time in the upcoming 2018 Kenya Premier League season. The wing back, who won the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup with the national team a week ago, said his intention to exit Sofapaka were fueled by what he termed as a slight misunderstanding between him and his coach Sam Ssimbwa. Onguso joined Sofapaka from Western Stima last season, where he failed to impress the Ugandan tactician and consequently found his place on the bench. He revealed his miseries with Ssimbwa began after the Hull City tour, where upon returning, the coach informed him of his drop in form and recommended him for tougher training so as to win back his starting roles. But contrary to Ssimbwa’s observation of the left back’s poor form, Onguso was lauded for his grandeur display in the Hull City game. He said it was disheartening to see the coach use a “false” left back yet he was available and fully fit. From the time he joined Sofapaka, Onguso established himself as a force to reckon with in the national team, where he made it to the KPL All Stars and toured Spain in July for two friendly matches. He was recalled to the national team for the Cecafa Senior Challenge tournament as a replacement to the Ulinzi Stars left back Omar Mbongi. Here, he played all Kenyan matches and helped the team win the regional tournament without tasting defeat. He disclosed that the training method used by Ssimbwa and his open discrimination to some players are some of the key reasons fueling his exit. The former Western Stima left back said he would have wished to remain in the club if the competition for the left back position was fair. “I really want to move elsewhere for playing time. I am frustrated that I am benched and my place taken by a right back. The coach told me after the Hull City and Spanish tours that I had dropped in form and recommended that I toughen in training. I did as per his instructions but still couldn’t find the starting roles. The coach openly favours some players leaving a section unhappy. I would have stayed if the competition for the left back comes from another left back.”