Over 262 journalists were behind bars by December 1, a report by Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) documents. Of those jailed, 193 work online whereas 110 are print journalists. The report lists Turkey, China and Egypt as countries that lead the park with highest number of its newsmen behind bars. The Committee faults the US and other Western powers for failing to pressures worlds worst jailers into improving what it terms 'bleak climate for press freedom.' The 262 journalists behind bars is an increase from last year's 259. Turkey leads the pack with 73 journalists in prison, followed by China with 41 and Egypt has imprisoned 20 journalists. "The worst three jailers are responsible for jailing 134 or 51 percent of the total," the report says. “In a just society, no journalist should ever be imprisoned for their work and reporting critically, but 262 are paying that price,” said CPJ Executive Director, Joel Simon. “It is shameful that for the second year in a row, a record number of journalists are behind bars. Countries that jail journalists for what they publish are violating international law and must be held accountable. The fact that repressive governments are not paying a price for throwing journalists in jail represents a failure of the international community,” he added. The commitee shows that 194 journalists, or 74 percent, are imprisoned on anti-state charges, many under broad or vague terror laws. "In Turkey, every journalist on the census is either accused of or charged with anti-state crimes. Although many journalists cover multiple beats, politics was the most dangerous, covered by 87 percent of those jailed. Nearly all the jailed journalists are local and the percentage of freelancers is higher this year, accounting for 29 percent of cases," the report shows. Other leading jailers of journalists in 2017 are Eritrea, with 15 cases, and Azerbaijan and Vietnam, with 10 cases each the report reads. "The international community has done little to isolate repressive countries and U.S. President Donald Trump’s nationalistic rhetoric and insistence on labeling critical media 'fake news' serves to reinforce the framework of accusations and legal charges that allow such leaders to preside over the jailing of journalists," the committee said adding that this year's census found the number of journalists jailed for “false news” doubled this year, to 21 cases. Poor prison conditions is another issue this year, with two journalists jailed in China, including Nobel laureate Liu Xiobo dying just weeks after being released on medical parole, and several others seriously ill. In Egypt, CPJ found over half of the jailed journalists have health conditions. The prison census accounts only for journalists in government custody and does not include those who have disappeared or are held captive by non-state groups, such as several Yemeni journalists CPJ believes to be held by the Ansar Allah movement, known as the Houthis. These cases are classified as 'missing' or 'abducted'. CPJ has been conducting an annual survey of journalists in jail since 1990s.          