Kirnyaga Governor Anne waiguru has been ranked the second best performing leader nationally after Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana. Waiguru got an approval rating of 54 per cent, in the 100-day evaluation by NPA Polls Kenya. She came after Kibwana (55 per cent) and was followed by Anyang' Nyong'o of Kisumu (53 per cent). Then came Narok and Vihiga county bosses - Samuel Tunai and Wilbur Ottichilo - with 51 per cent and 50 per cent approval respectively. Residents were asked to approve or disapprove of the leaders they elected in the general election on August 8. The report is dated December 12. Kirinyaga was the first county to develop a paper titled 'Mountain Cities Blue Print 2032'. The Governor collected public views on Kirinyaga's 15-year prospects from the four sub-counties, the vision being improving lives. Nice Digital City director Charles Njiru aka Mkombozi noted Waiguru's "tremendous efforts in solving the water crisis in Mwea rice schemes. "The Governor's first assignment in office was to ensure adequate water in schemes by introducing proper water rationing methods," said Mmkombozi. Maendeleo ya Wanawake county chairperson Diana Gicaiya said the opening of Thiba dam was a major milestone. Nominated MCA Rose Njeru said the vision will "completely change the face of Kirinyaga. She urged leaders to unite and support Waiguru The opening of a renal unit at Keruguya hospital has improved dialysis as the machine serves 10 patients in a day. During the launch, the county boss said the journey to make Kirinyaga Central a health and wellness centre had begun. She announced plans for a Sh19 billion resort in Gichugu, which is expected to be a centre of tourism and job creation. In the survey, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti had the highest disapproval rating of 64 per cent against an approval rating of 34 per cent. He was followed by Nairobi's Mike Sonko with a disapproval rating of 61 per cent and then came Hassan Joho, Ali Korane and Cornel Rasanga - of Mombasa, Garissa and Siaya - who tied at 58 per cent. Related: Don't worry, I am Mr Fix it, Sonko's running mate Igathe tells Nairobians On December 14, President Uhuru Kenyatta reassured governors of his commitment to working with them despite their political leanings. Uhuru told their induction meeting in Kwale that he was ready for dialogue on development, not mere politics. He further told them not to hesitate to consult him on any development ideas. More on this: Let's dialogue on projects, not politics, Uhuru tells governors Click here for the latest political news