AFC Leopards will use the friendly match againist Kakamega Homebyz today to test the qualities of trialist Prince Papa from Ghana. Leopards have been invited by Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya to be part of the official opening of the newly refubished Bukhungu Stadium. They are scheduled to play a friendly match with Kakamega Homeboyz, who will from next season enjoy sponsorship from the county government. Leopards’ chairman Dan Mule confirmed that the club’s head coach Robert Matano requested to test the capabilities of the Ghanaian in the match before offering him contract. Matano said it would be a mistake to contract a foreign player without testing his skills in a competititive environment. Matano fell out with Uganda’s duo of Allan Kateregga and Keziron Kizito as well as Burundi forward Alexis Kitenge in the just concluded season, describing them as blunt in front. Mule confirmed that Papa jetted into the country on Sunday and travelled with the team to Kakamega, where the bench will weigh his contribution in the match. He further disclosed that the coach had sought to give the new players a chance to make their debut at the den. “We are using the match to test the qaulities of our new trialist Prince Papa from Ghana. If he convinces the technical bench, then we will offer him a contract. The coach will hand the new signings starting berths to make their debuts. All senior players save for those who are in the national team, have travelled for the friendly and we hope to open Bukhungu with a win,” he said. In the just concluded season, Leopards savoured the services of another Ghananian Gilbert Fiamenyo albeit in the first leg but the burly forward controversially exited the den citing a career wrecking injury which required specialised treatment in Accra. Fiamenyo had netted five Premier League goals during his stint with Leopards. Despite the venue being used for Group ‘B’ Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup preliminaries, the county government of Kakamega will officially open the venue today and thereafter cheer their sponsored team Homeboyz.