The High Court has stopped the sale of Sh100 milllion disputed Nairobi. Justice Antonina Bor of Milimani Environment and Land Court issued restraining orders following an application by Elias Waithainji, the proprietor of Try Tyres in Nyamakima. He is seeking to overturn an order dispossessing him of the same property, which has a five-storey building. The judge ordered that the property should not been sold or transferred to another party pending the hearing of the case on February 16, 2018. Waithainji has sued the Chief Registrar of Lands for illegally revoking his title deed LR No. 209/2279 Crossroads, Nairobi, and transferring it to Joseph Maina, who is the second defendant. The plaintiff, through his lawyers Kibe Mungai and Gilbert Kinyua, argues he was not party to the case Maina filed to have the title deed transferred to him. The judge also directed Maina to file a written undertaking in court that he will refund the rent collected from November 28 if the court rules the eviction was illegal. The defendant was directed to file a replying affidavit within 28 days. Waithanji is seeking to quash an order issued on April 21 by the same court revoking his ownership of the land. He said the cancellation of his title was illegal as the court relied on a forged consent order in case number 221 of 1999, which did not provide for his eviction or cancellation of ownership of the property.  The plaintiff said the consent order lapsed in 2012 and could, therefore, not be enforced. Waithanji said in suit papers he purchased the land from Jayendra Shah in 2000 for Sh12 million while Maina claims he bought the same parcel from a different person, Javan Shah. He said put up a five-storey building, which hosts shops, bar and restaurant and lodgings, but on November 27 he was evicted on the strength of a court order following a suit Maina filed against Javan. The businessman accuses the Lands Registrar of fraudulently gazetting the issuance of a certificate of title to Maina. He also accuses Maina of hiding from the court material facts that would have seen his suit thrown out. For instance, Maina failed to disclose he had, in January, 2001 filed a case in the High Court in Nairobi (Case No. 100 of 2001 Maina versus Jayan Drakumar Lakamshbhai Shah and Waithanji), seeking to rectify the land register by deleting Waithanji’s name and insert his (Maina) name as the registered proprietor of the land, but the case flopped. Waithainji says in October 2016 the Lands Registrar illegally published a Gazette Notice No. 8604 issuing a provisional title to Maina. The gazette notice, he argues, was both fraudulent and illegal as Maina had claimed that his title deed to the land was lost but the truth is that he had never been issued with one.   He says Jayendra on July 25 recorded a statement with police where he affirmed he bought the plot on July 31, 1996 from Joginder Singh. On September 25, 2000 he entered into a sale agreement with Waithanji, who agreed to pay Sh12 million. He subsequently transferred the land to the buyer after completing payment. But Shah says police summoned him on July 24 to shed more light on the transaction. The sleuths showed him a Kenya Revenue Authority stamp duty, declaration assessment and pay-slip bearing his name and PIN number that were not his. The documents indicated he sold the land to Maina. Shah, however, denied ever selling the land to Maina, saying he only got to know him during a case when his lawyer pointed to him whom the complainant was. He challenges Maina to prove the mode of payment to him, saying he only sold the land to Waithanji. The businessman argues the court issued the order in total disregard of an application he had filed on July 28, which was to be heard on November 30, two days before he was evicted. Waithanji says he was evicted by a gang of more than 50 youth armed with crude weapons and metal bars. Police guarded them. The youths roughed him up and stole his mobile phone together with other documents. The plaintiff says police arrested and detained him at Central police station until the eviction was completed at around 6pm. At about 7pm he was given a police bond to attend court on November 3017 to be charged with contempt of court.  Waithanji while seeking a temporary injunction expresses fear that the property is likely to be sold by Maina in order to compromise his quest for justice. According to the suit papers, in February 1999, Maina moved to court seeking to have the property transferred to him but later withdrew the suit. He again in 2001 filed another suit seeking an injunction to stop Waithanji from developing the property but the application was too dismissed. The businessman says Maina filed a judicial review on 2004 but the case was also dismissed.      