Was Raila Odinga only playing mind-games with Jubilee to have his elder brother Oburu Oginga elected to the EALA? Many have been wondering why the NASA leader went quiet a few days to the EALA elections held last Thursday only to resurface on Sunday and revive his controversial swearing-in vow. Raila’s silence during the period raised eyebrows, with some suspecting that he was playing it safe for Oburu to land the regional assembly job. It is believed Raila traded in silence for Jubilee, especially after the elder brother reportedly sought out Majority leader Aden Duale for backing on his EALA bid.  ***** A disgruntled Member of the National Assembly from Western Kenya, who clinched his seat on the Jubilee Party ticket, is unhappy with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto over the proposed heads of parliamentary committees and the Parliamentary Service Commission. The MP is believed to have challenged the party leader, during the recent PG meeting, why he missed out on any of the positions, despite championing Uhuru’s reelection bid in the region. Corridors has learned that the legislator was edged out as the party leadership settled on former Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka for Senate Speaker and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali as Chief Whip. ***** Kenya'S Fourth President — Uhuru Kenyatta — has always blamed the opposition for taking the country’s dirty linen to the global stage. However, on Monday, December 18, 2017, the President also exhibited the country's dirty linen to the world in a Washington Times article. In his bylined article, “Kenya deserves a strong and credible opposition”, Uhuru says, “Constitutional questions are important for good governance. However, in the end, they do not create jobs, nor deliver welfare or security, nor put food on the table.” What he forgot is that the Constitution governs all sectors of a country and if it’s well implemented, it provides a good environment for the creation of jobs and business opportunities by stopping corruption, tribalism and nepotism. It also aids in implementing good policies. ***** Just why are Traffic police officers keen on carrying firearms when conducting regular traffic checks on the highways? Well, the traffic law enforcers are taking no chances anymore from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission sleuths. The Traffic department has been riddled with extortion scandals and many cops are fearful of being nabbed by EACC detectives and are arming themselves. Matatu Owners’ Association chairman Simon Kimutai was blunt in his response to acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i: “There is no reason these officers need guns, yet they are collecting bribes from matatus; they must be dealt with firmly.” 