The Opposition has unveiled a seven-member organising committee to map out the People's Assembly.  The People's Assembly is part of NASA's multi-pronged strategy to end President Uhuru Kenyatta's rule. In a briefing on Friday, former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale said the team will make sure Kenya embarks on the final pillar of restoring democracy, just government and legitimate leadership. The committee will have David Ndii, Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet Olekina and Peter Mathuki. "They will deliberate on and produce the roadmap towards the achievement of objectives through the assembly which will lead us to a free and fair election or the path of self-determination," Khalwale said. Khalwale said the work of the Organising Committee will be to guide, facilitate and coordinate the programme of the various assemblies across the country. "It will further set up and oversight a national secretariat that will be the centre for the activities of these assemblies among other duties," he said. The former senator said Kenyans cannot accept the "blatant usurpation of power" by the Jubilee administration. "This unashamed abuse was plain for all the world to see when we sought to hold a peaceful, memorial service for 26 supporters killed by trigger-happy security forces," he said. Read: Two shot dead in Soweto as police keep NASA supporters off Jacaranda Also read: I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Khalwale said the blood of those killed demands a change in Kenya. "We the people, as their fathers, mothers, spouses, sisters, brothers are resolved that electoral justice is a reality in Kenya," he said. On Tuesday, NASA leader Raila Odinga told BBC that Uhuru Kenyatta's presidency remains illegitimate adding that NASA will continue pushIng for electoral reforms through civil disobedience. "We will ensure electoral justice. The struggle will continue through civil disobedience, demonstrations and boycotts until there is electoral justice." Raila added that the issues he has raised "must be addressed or there will be no country". He further said the Opposition will use People's Assemblies to push for major changes. A High Court stopped the implementation of the Assemblies although so far 10 counties have passed motions in support of their formation. More on this: Uhuru still illegitimate president, resistance on, Raila tells BBC Related: Shoot me if I'm the problem, not my supporters, Raila tells Jubilee Click here for the latest political news