Harriet Mueke, 16, was the fifth best candidate in this year’s KCSE exam nationally. She scored a straight A of 85.956 points. Mueke wants to study Civil Engineering. The former Mary Hill Girls' High School student said she looks forward to join the University of Nairobi or Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Mueke also said if given an opportunity, she would like to study the course at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Speaking while celebrating her performance together with teachers, parents and friends at the school, on Wednesday, Mueke said she set her goals and was aiming to attain an A in her KCSE. “I knew I wanted an A and I worked hard for it since I joined form one,” she said. Mueke said, however, that being the fifth best candidate countrywide had never crossed her mind. She said she was surprised to find out that she was among the best five students in the country. Before joining Mary Hill Girls' High school, Mueke has scored 422 marks in her KCPE exams at Divine Mercy Academy in Kariobangi South, Nairobi. Mueke told the Star that despite being the top girl in her primary school, she didn’t have hopes of joining a national school, since her mum couldn’t raise her fees. Luckily, she was enrolled as a beneficiary of the Kenya Commercial Bank Foundation, who made her dream come true by sponsoring her secondary school education. “I always dreamt of joining Mary Hill Girls High School, but we lacked finances. But thanks to the KCB Foundation, I joined my school of choice and I was determined to excel, which by the grace of God I have,” Mueke said. She said hard work, devotion to education and support from teachers, friends and family contributed to her sterling performance. “At first, I disliked science subjects, but advice from my teachers and peers made me fall love with them. That’s why I will pursue Civil Engineering,” she said. Her Mother Irene Muutu, a teacher at Mlolongo Primary School, said prayers were the key force behind her daughter’s outstanding performance. “I was confident that my daughter would shine in the exam, because she was painstaking and again we embarked on prayers to guide her as she sat her final test,” she said. Mary Hill principal Jacinta Akatsa said the outstanding performance of her candidates was achieved through proper coordination and cooperation between teachers, candidates and parents. She said Mueke has been an exemplary candidate through her academic performance. Akatsa said it did not come as as surprise for Mueke to be in the list of top performers.    