A whopping Sh29.6 billion is needed to rehabilitate roads in the city and make them motor-able, the county government has said. The county said that out of the total 3,600 km road network in the the city, only 50 per cent is tarmacked. 20 per cent of the roads are graveled while the remaining 30 per cent are earth roads. This was captured in a report tabled by Transport Committee chairman Mark Ndung'u from the county Transport department in the county assembly chambers last week. The report cites lack of funds as the biggest challenge the county faces in carpeting the roads, noting that City Hall requires Sh50 million to tarmac a kilometre of road. “The committee was told that the available budget of Sh3.5 billion is only able to carpet 10 per cent of the road network in the county,” Ndung'u said. The county government has always been on the spot over poor state of roads in most parts of the city. Residents have held demonstrations and business people, especially those in Eastleigh, threatened to stop paying taxes to the county. Most roads have deep potholes while others flood anytime it rains due to poor drainage system. The county has blamed insufficient funds for failure to repair the roads. But some residents have blamed corruption and lack of priority by the county for the bad roads. The report was tabled in response to a statement requested by Ruai MCA Paul Kamangu, who sought to know why most roads in the city are in poor state, and if City Hall has any plans to tarmac them. Last week, the county government announced plans to acquire two pothole patching machines to repair and rehabilitate the roads. City Hall last week on Thursday said it would soon import two pothole patching machines from Europe at a cost of Sh100 million to seal potholes, which have rendered most of the roads in the city nearly impassable. Acting county secretary Leboo Ole Morintat said the machine can patch a pothole in three to five minutes. “These machines will reduce our road maintenance cost by 50 per cent, and the work will be much faster,” transport executive Mohamed Dagane said. Kamangu pointed out that businesses in his ward have been effaced by the bad roads because the place is inaccessible. Roads in the city are constructed and rehabilitated by the county government, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya National Highways Authority. In 2016, 181 infrastructural projects across the 85 wards worth Sh1.3 billion that were budgeted for during the year stalled due to lack of funds. This was captured in 2017-18 county Fiscal Strategy Paper.      