The Environment and Land Court in Kisumu yesterday suspended the relocation of the Kachok dumpsite. The dumpsite was to be relocated to Mamboleo in Kajulu, Kisumu East constituency. The relocation of the dumpsite is one of the flagship projects of Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o. Fredrick Nyesi and Rose Nyanjong had filed an application in court, seeking conservatory orders restraining the respondents from commencing work. The respondents are the Kisumu county government, Doris Ombara and Naya Holdings. The application was made on grounds the county government through Ombara had awarded a tender to Naya Holdings for the relocation of the dumpsite from Kachok without adhering to the provisions of the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015, among others.  The relocation is set to cost Sh99 million. The petitioners also said the process was shrouded in secrecy and the stakeholders, especially Mamboleo residents where the dumpsite would be relocated, were not consulted. They said residents would be exposed to health hazards if the dumpsite is shifted to Mamboleo. The petitioners also said the county government and Ombara awarded the tender to Naya Holdings without carrying out the environmental impact assessment. They also said the proposed relocation of the site to an abandoned quarry in Mamboleo is less than 200 metres from the River Kibos. The petitioners said toxic substances from the dumpsite are likely to find their way into the river. Lawyer Geoffrey Yogi, representing the county government, told the court the application by the petitioner is premature, since the procedure to acquire the licence is still going on. Lawyer Bruce Odeny, representing Naya Holdings, said public participation is still going on and all the complaints can be handled by Nema. He said the awarding of the tender does not mean commencement of work. But judge S M Kibunja granted the petitioners’ application, pending the hearing and determination of the case. The case resumes on January 18.