Succession politics has begun in ernest in the Mt Kenya region as President Uhuru Kenyatta begins his second and final term. While politicians from the region say they will support DP William Ruto as their flagbearer, the issue for now is who will be number two. Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri appears to be positioning himself to be Ruto’s running mate. This apparent assumption is resented by some politicians from Mt Kenya. On Sunday at the Glory Celebration Centre in Nanyuki town, three Mt Kenya legislators said the DP post will be hotly contested. Ndaragua MP Jeremiah Kioni on Sunday warned that whoever is given a state job by Uhuru should not assume that he is superior to other leaders. He said state officers must respect elected leaders. “They have our support and must deliver to wananchi,” Kioni said. Kiunjuri served as the Laikipia East MP for two consecutive terms. In 2013, he ran for Laikipia governor on the GNU ticket, but lost to Joshua Irungu of TNA. In this year’s election, Uhuru prevailed upon him to shelve his ambitions and help him instead in his administration. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Laikipia East’s Mohamed Amin and Kioni warned any leader eyeing the number two position to prepare for a battle royal. They said some DP hopefuls have planned to kill the aspirations of up-and-coming politicians. “As Mt Kenya leaders, we have agreed that Ruto will be our presidential flagbearer, but anyone wishing to deputise him must work hard for it,” Kuria said. “Just like governors, senators, MPs, Woman representatives and MCAs, the DP-to-be will have to be nominated at the ballot.” Voters will decide, he said. Kuria also told Ruto to work hard and deliver to the people of Mt Kenya region during the next five years. Amin said the deputy flagbearer post will not go to politicians who campaign on the platform of distributing relief food in the country — an apparent reference to Kiunjuri. “This is not the time to step on elected leaders’ toes to distract them so they fail to deliver on what they promised their residents,” he said. Kioni said, “Those given jobs by the President should stick to the mandate of ensuring the Jubilee manifesto is implemented. Also present during the thanksgiving ceremony were Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru, Kiambu Woman MP Gathoni Wamuchomba and Kirinyaga Woman MP Wangui Ngirichi.