December is finally here and my relationship with Miss-November has officially come to an end...unlike #TheRaverend's previous relationships with other months, I will definitely not forget Miss November. She was the best I ever had, and, speaking on behalf of Kenya, we can all agree Miss November was a fantastic one. Now that we have entered December, aka DrinkThember, it’s one giant weekend. Kenyans tend to overindulge in kulaing life forgetting that, like any other weekend, it always comes and goes very fast and furious, with Njaanworry waiting with it’s relatives Broke and Bills. So as we kula life, let’s do it responsibly and have a backup plan for Njaanworries!!!!  As the countdown to Christmas officially gets underway Kenyans have a reason to smile, we have a President in State House...Canaan, aka Jerusalem, came to Kenya during the inauguration of Uhuru Kenyatta, who is now five days into his final term in office...Now that political temperature has cooled down, it's time to get back to the grind and try to recover before we jump into 2018.  With Siasa aside Kenyans are going back to normal drinking and partying patterns, with all clubs now getting busy...The partying started at State House during the inauguration reception, where more slay queens were invited than actual taxpayers or dignitaries the House in the Hill...This was the first time a presidential lunch was full off slay queens...Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu must have been very impressed by the huge number of young people he addressed, not knowing 60 per cent of them can’t even spell his name or locate Israel on Google Maps. Netanyahu was played. He was surrounded by NyauNyauz who were at State House for selfies and too find Future Wife sponsors/Blessers, but who is #TheRaverend to judge!!! Let people prosper....From State House the slay queens checked into the various clubs in the city, with the biggest party happening at Gallileo Lounge in Westlands, where drinks and BBQ were in plenty. Wednesday the party continued in Space Lounge off Ngong Road and all the major clubs in the CBD, from Tribeka to club Rumors!!! What #TheRaverend can confirm is that Kenyans have opened all the reserve tanks and are now spending after holding back in the name of Siasa and Supreme Court cases. Thursday was equally fire with Bong Queen VeeMoney killing a party at B-Club ahead of her all-girl pool party this Sunday at Diamond Plaza....Memphis in USIU Area Code was equally turned up with guys partying 1824 style, how guys reported to work Friday morning is still a big question mark. The partying didn’t stop, with Kiza and 40Forty throwing heavy parties last night....Tonight is not any different because Jameson Live is happening in Uhuru Gardens with TY Dolla $ign set to rock the party backed by Khaligraph the OG, Thekansol, Octopizzo and South Africa’s Nasty C...The official after-party after all the parties will be at Gallileo Lounge, where the party never stops with DJ Protege facing off with London-based DJ Sparks. Entry is absolutely free. All slay Kings and slay Queens are invited!!!!