Former Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung'aro has urged Coast politicians who feel
rejected by NASA to join Jubilee Party. Speaking in Kilifi on Saturday, Mung’aro said "intimidation" of NASA
leaders from the region is a clear indication they have no place
in the alliance. NASA, he said, has little regards for Coast leaders. “I welcome the MPs to join Jubilee Party so
we can form a partnership with Deputy President William Ruto ahead of his 2022
presidential bid,"  Mung'aro said. By doing so, he said, the Coast will
have a bigger stake in the government and leaders will be able to push for development and
political positions. This follows a series of protests by some NASA Coast
elected leaders, claiming they have been locked out of key positions, despite having delivered
to the alliance at the August 8 elections. Trouble started when NASA leaders brought in
former Meru Governor Peter Munya and made him a co-principal during his short-lived dalliance with the opposition alliance.  All Kilifi elected MPs protested after Munya was named a NASA
principals. They felt Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his
Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi deserved to be principals. Rabai MP William Kamoti and his Kaloleni counterpart
Paul Katana said they felt intimidated in NASA. Kamoti said somebody should not join NASA and be made principal,
while those who did tremendous work in building the alliance were left out. “We have cried since the era of Cord. Now we
are in NASA and we feel Coast NASA leaders are intimidated," he said. Kamoti said NASA leaders at the Coast want
to be part of crucial meetings, which involved the principals. “This is cry for justice. We are demanding for our right
from NASA," he said. Katana said it was unfair for those
who have fought for NASA to be left out. He said Coast has delivered since 2013 and
remained loyal to Raila, yet they have not received any rewards. Their anger was once again sparked after Coast MPs
missed out in the list of chief whip and minority leader of the National Assembly. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya expressed dissatisfaction in the manner which they were being treated by NASA. Last week, Coast NASA leadership also suffered
another blow after they were left out in the parliamentary leadership positions
of minority chief whip, minority leader of the National Assembly. During the August 8 election, ODM delivered 27
MCAs in the 35 wards in Kilifi county. The Coast region is a perceived NASA
stronghold that fully supports Raila Odinga. But Mung’aro said the Coast will suffer more if the leadership continue being in NASA. “I want the MPS to join Jubilee to prepare for 2022 to
ensure we get the numbers and have a say in government," he said. Mung'aro said Coast has more MPs than Nyanza, but has not been rewarded for loyalty. In 2013, Mung’aro said getting the minority chief whip
position did not come easy as they had to fight for the post in Naivasha. “I have been open before and during campaigns three
years ago, I told Coast people I have been in ODM and there is a lot of injustice," Mung'aro said.    