A former Migori MCA spent Wednesday night at a police station after being arrested on bribery claims. Joshua Onyango, who once represented East Kamagambo ward, was apprehended by CID officers at Rakwaro center. This was after a teacher who claimed he had paid close to Sh600,000 turned up at county officers to pick his appointment letter. Moses Ochieng’ of Kanga Mixed Secondary School went to Governor Okoth Obado's office in the morning and told orderlies he was to serve as county director of finance. Ochieng' said he was sent by the former MCA but it turned out he talked on phone to a person who impersonated Obado’s political adviser Dennis Orero. The suspect who impersonated Orero and another who pretended to be Obado fled but police launched a search. “The teacher came in a jovial mood and asked for his letter. We told him to call the person who instructed him to come to us. He was then told to pick the letter at a hotel in Rongo so we alerted police,” said an orderly at Obado’s office, who sought anonymity.  Former East Kamagambo MCA Joshua Onyango at Migori police station where he was taken over claims of bribery, December 27, 2017. /FAITH MATETE Migori police boss Joseph Nthenge said he would give his comments after investigations but noted the suspect will likely be charged on Thursday. Police sources claimed Onyango collected the money over a period of time and linked him to the impersonators who used Obado and his adviser's names. “He claimed he knew the teacher personally and received the money as a friend but when records of mobile money transactions were produced, we decided to arrest him," the source said. Onyango was grilled for several houses at Migori county headquarters where police accompanied him everywhere, including to the washroom. “We asked him to pay Sh50,000 cash bail to be released and take his car to the station as surety but he couldn’t avail the cash. That is why he will spend the night in the station,” an officer said during the grilling.  Former East Kamagambo MCA Joshua Onyango at Migori police station where he was taken over claims of bribery, December 27, 2017. /FAITH MATETE The teacher refused to talk to the press at the station while the former MCA said “I will talk to you later". Obado’s press director Nicholas Anyuor asked members of the public who have been asked to give money to get county jobs to alert police or relevant county officials for action. “The suspects will carry their own crosses. The Office of the Governor is alarmed that conmen have been impersonating officials to solicit money,” Anyuor said. He said county officials helped police to arrest the suspect and will ensure justice. The arrest came days after Obado sent the entire Public Service Board packing to pave way for investigations into gross misconduct. Click here for the latest political news  