My canine teeth, upper jaw, are missing. That is to say, I have gaps where my ‘pointy’ eye teeth (known as fangs in animals) are supposed to be. The story of how I came to lose my upper canines is short, but it started a long long time ago. I suppose I was 10, or perhaps a little younger, when it was discovered that I had impacted canines in my upper jaw. A tooth impaction is when a tooth fails to grow in the correct position and, therefore, stays below the gum. It’s bad enough to have one impacted tooth but I had to go the extra mile and have two, which without delay were surgically removed, and discarded.     And so I set forth into the world with my canine milk teeth intact, never to be replaced by the permanent canines that had been binned, and as milk teeth aren’t meant to last forever, those, too, dropped from the scene after a couple of years. They did have a good run, though, that pair. Seeing as that I have never had to tear raw meat from a gazelle after I’d killed it, I didn’t feel the need to do anything about my missing fangs. But then one day, I became self-conscious about my gaps. Suddenly I wanted a movie star smile. Call it midlife crisis, or whatever, the point is I dropped everything and went to see a dentist about replacing the missing teeth. And he, quite helpfully, gave me a number of options – dental bridges, or partial dentures (these are removable), or dental implants. I said no to the bridges because apparently they have the potential to damage the teeth you already have. Absolutely not, I said to the implants as putting them in place involves drilling titanium posts into the jaw bone (these serve as teeth roots). After which you’re looking at four to six months of healing. Ouch! So I went with the safer, no-pain option of partial dentures. They were rubbish. I was told they would take some getting used to, but no one told me anything about acquiring a lisp. They were such a nuisance I started considering the implants, and then I thought, wait a minute, I’m not that car you get at an auction. You see, cars bought at an auction are often sold on an “as is, where is” basis. The ‘as is…’ part generally means you buy the car and accept that what you see is what you get. It may or may not work. And it may or may not have hidden defects. The idea, of course, is to get the car then whack it back into shape by panel beating, stripping, replacing parts, and repainting.  Now why does that sound so much like what we, as a society, are doing to our bodies? What with the skin lightening, nose jobs, liposuction, plastic surgery; so obsessed have we become with our looks, we’re willing to do to our bodies the same thing we do to used cars purchased at the fall of an auctioneer’s hammer. I think I’ll keep my gaps unless needs must. I was made this way, and as the line from the movie Idlewild goes, ‘God doesn’t make mistakes.’ Whatever your appearance, you’re perfect. Take it and keep it ‘as is…’