Services at St Mary’s Mission Hospital in Langata have been paralysed and patients abandoned as a result of a rift over management of the facility. A Catholic priest and sisters are fighting to control the hospital. Patients have no one to attend to them after doctors and other medical officers were yesterday locked out of the facility by goons. They were allegedly brought by an auctioneer from the Siuma Auctioneering firm, whose services were sought by the sisters. Babies in incubators, patients waiting to be operated on, women seeking pre-natal care services and tens of others in general wards were not attended to. “I came here on Wednesday and I was supposed to go to theatre today. I was told not to eat anything. It is now noon, I am feeling very bad,” Lucy Ateka, a patient, said. Some people who had patients at the facility were transferring them to other hospitals as at noon yesterday. A doctor, who did not want to be named, said they were ambushed at 4am by people breaking doors and windows of the staff quarters. “I saw youth carrying rungus and machetes. There were also police officers and they told us not to get out of the house,” he said. They stormed the administration block, reception, general ward and laboratory and told staff to leave, saying that new doctors had been brought in,” he said. Bryann Nyangeri, the hospital’s managing director, condemned the attack, saying the staff were manhandled by the goons. “As staff, we do not have any problem with the new management. In fact, we are ready to sit down with the new management. But the way we are harassed and beaten is what we are protesting,” Nyangeri said. The hospital is currently run by Father William Charles Fryda, but sisters under the umbrella of the Assumption of Sisters of Nairobi registered as trustees and Regina Pacis University College, Lang’ata, through the board of directors, had accused the priest of running the hospital as a private entity. The complainants went to court and obtained an order to take over the management of the hospital. They claimed the hospital was built for the church by an American donor. “We have an order issued by court in in September. We have come here to simply execute a court order. There is nothing illegal,” Zacharia Baraza, whose Siuma Auctioneering firm was contracted by the complainants to execute the order, said. The order allowed the sisters andor their appointed agents to break into and gain forcible entry into the facility. The Star reporter did not however manage to get a copy of the court order. Area MP Nixon Korir, who rushed to the facility, asked both sides not to risk the lives of patients.  He threatened to petition Health CS Cleopa Mailu to de-register the facility if the patients were not taken care of. “These wrangles started seven years ago, but as an MP, my concern is the lives of the sick people who are here. If they can sort our their issues, then I don’t have any problem,” he said.