No sane society can debate the crucial role of education, and we need its impact on our politics. Education is the single most powerful weapon to advance people’s lives, restore dignity to the populace and promote sustainable development. However, on this very same page there is a public debate on some of the people who have received the crème de la crème of education, but they have not done much with it. The debate reminds us of Chinua Achebe’s words, “Education was brought to the Africans but what good did it do them?” Genuine intellectuals should embody new ideas and renewed confidence to drive the country towards change. Martin Luther King Jr, when he was arrested for protesting without a permit in Birmingham, Albama, wrote a letter to his fellow clergymen, “I hope this letter finds you strong in the faith,” evoking the language of St Paul’s epistles. King’s letter is filled with classical rhetorical devices, such as ethos (establishment of credibility) pathos (appeal to the emotions) and logos (appeal to reason). By all standards, King’s intellectual gift was put to the best use as he battled racism in America. It was the same with Nelson Mandela. He fought the apartheid regime by intellect, unflinching conviction and by daring to imagine a free South Africans at all cost. Back home in Kenya, Wangari Maathai, being the first African woman to receive her PhD in 1971, didn’t find comfort in air-conditioned offices at the University of Nairobi. She found fulfillment in taking up causes she believed in, however unappealing they seemed to others who had received higher education like hers. Maathai found great satisfaction in organising rural women to plant trees. In Nairobi, she would lead people to reclaim public spaces under threat of being grabbed. She didn’t shy away from speaking her mind and pointing out bad governance and impunity. To President Daniel Moi, she was a thorn in the flesh. Those who insulted her today revere her legacy. She underscored the need to organise for the good of all and future generations. The good Professor epitomised the application of civic power to demand accountability, the goal being promotion of good governance.  But in modern day Kenya, intellectuals are synonymous with hardline megaphones and the seemingly insatiable desire to defend the indefensible. Some of them have inflated opinions of their worth and the contribution they make to their parties. The majority of them have been turned into cannon folder by their political godfathers. Those around the epicentre of power from both sides of the political divide are haughty and have a false sense of entitlement and invincibility. They totally disregard facts and quibble about almost every matter in politics to please their masters. The need to endear themselves to their commanders has blinded them to the facts. With that ignorance they distance themselves from reality. You won’t be surprised to see some of these intellectuals go on TV talk shows and use acres of newspaper space to hurl insults at their competitors with outright contempt for the truth. Their arguments often sound far-fetched. Most are bereft of logical reasoning. For instance, why would someone mislead people on secession, which is a baseless debate in our case and circumstances? It is true people can secede but the reasons to do so must be solid, not be based on flimsy grounds. The political elite talk at length about details to mislead the innocent. They will use all sorts of theories to obfuscate important national conversations. The men and women on these TV shows come with concocted versions of the truth, primarily to service certain political agenda. Clearly, this is the height of political dishonesty that continues to undermine the true meaning democracy. If the educated in politics can trivialise issues — some of them going to the very core of the general good of the public — then this is perhaps the greatest undoing by public intellectuals in modern day Africa. It is thissame clique and the elite that led to the disintegration of Somalia from a tenuously united nation-state into a war-torn patchwork of fiefdoms controlled by clan chiefs. As a Kenyan, I don’t think there is any country in East Africa that can accommodate me as a refugee. And I will not be a bystander when a few individuals try to divide us by feeding us half-truths. Therefore, my solemn declaration as a citizen is that no politician will mislead me; it’s my responsibility to verify the information I receive. Why would someone tell the public the Constitution does not matter anymore? Mature democracies respect this sacrosanct document. No one doubts there is a candid discussion we need to have as a country on how to make the government inclusive and embrace the losers. But I remain convinced such discussion should happen within the context of this very Constitution. A referendum is a good avenue to execute this. The moment we set a precedent of dishonouring the Constitution, we might be unable to escape the consequences in the near future. I’m cognizant of the fact there are various dimensions to an issue that is the subject of discussion and people will argue for or against weighty issues. But what disgusts me is the incomplete analysis that aims to promote party positions at the expense of the common good.  We need an intellectual renaissance!    The writer is the executiver director Governance Pillar Organization          