More than 75 per cent of girls in West Pokot county are at risk of female genital mutilation during the December holiday. Anti-FGM organizations say parents organise private rite-of-passage ceremonies and then later cut their girls. They say many FGM cases have been reported in the county because of long holidays, lack of information, illiteracy, ignorance, poor infrastructure and lack of funds to sustain anti FGM campaigns.  Speaking on Tuesday during the graduation of 350 girls taken through an alternative rite of passage at Muino, Wei Wei Ward, Beyond FGM CBO program manager Domitila Chesang urged the government to be alert so girls at risk are rescued from the knife. Chesang said that many girls have suffered after undergoing the cut because of lack of information. She said some girls are getting together to look for circumcisers without knowledge of their parents. She said that the girls underwent a four-day mentorship program where they were educated about sensitive matters including the importance of girls’ education, Biblical teachings, the dangers of FGM and early forced marriages. She said the CBO is reaching remote villages where the crime is rampant and educating about the dangers of the crime. “We have tried to ensure we reach remote areas where the problem is. We need a collective responsibility. We have trained over 40 Nyumba Kumi officials to help us in curbing the vice,” she said. Chesang also urged youth from the county to marry uncircumcised girls so that they are not excluded by their community. “There are many myths concerning uncircumcised girls in this community. I want to urge my fellow youths not to uphold outdated cultural practices that may later force our girls to undergo the cut,” she said. County assembly speaker Catherine Mukenyang urged the Pokot community to shun FGM and early forced marriages which hinder economic development. She said the county leadership supports anti-FGM programs and works with other stakeholders to eradicate the mutilation. Mukenyang called on leaders and provincial administration to help enforce anti-FGM law. “Chiefs should help us in the implementation of the law which was passed by Parliament to help us reduce these cases in remote region of our county,” she said. A 16-year-old standard seven graduate, Faith Chemtai from Ortum Primary School, said she will be an anti FGM ambassador in her village to help save other girls. “I want them to say no to FGM because I have known its dangers. Many have been taken for the operation and died due to bleeding,” she said.