NASA strategist David Ndii cannot work for President Uhuru Kenyatta or his Jubilee Party administration as he does not respect them. Ndii said this in an interview on KTN News on Monday, noting he and the President are not peers on any level. "I don’t think he is qualified to chart the course on how I can contribute to my country. Uhuru is not my peer professionally, intellectually… anywhere," he said. "You would have to work with them every day... I don’t respect them. I think (it would) be dishonest. I would have to pretend and call them 'sir',  which I wouldn’t mean. And I am a principled person." Uhuru will rule for another five years alongside Deputy President William Ruto following a tumultuous presidential election. Ndii, who was arrested weeks ago for allegedly inciting the public, defended his vocal criticism of the Jubilee government, noting he has fought for the people's rights for more than 25 years. "There is the presumption in Kenya that only in government can you make contributions to society...that what I am doing is not important," he said. The economist noted his push for secession emanated from an intellectual thinking. "The issue of secession was simply an intellectual thought. It will be implemented if the people have the will. The journey started with Coast leaders having their inaugural sitting last Sunday and raising their needs as a region. They want to start negotiations on secession in January." The strategist further said plans to swear-in Opposition leader Raila Odinga are not treasonable as Attorney General Githu Muigai declared. "The swearing-in of Raila will happen but we will not march to State House because as we all can tell, there is a huge deficit of legitimacy in Jubilee. The new dictatorship model is not working." More on this: Raila swearing-in is treason punishable by death - Githu Muigai Also read: We're ready to arrest, charge Raila with treason - police Ndii termed himself one of the strongest proponents of Raila's boycott of the repeat October 26 election. The Supreme Court ordered the re-run after the NASA principal successfully petitioned Uhuru's victory in the August 8 general election. "Why would anyone go for a pre-determined election outcome? I was a strong proponent and it seems Jubilee [leaders were] disappointed that they did not get the chance to give validity to the poll...probably giving Raila 40 per cent and taking 60 per cent," he said. Regarding the revolution the National Super Alliance has been pushing for, he said: "I go around the country and I can tell you it has not burnt but it will burn. We cannot assume things are back to normal because there are loud ethnic undertones among other serious issues." Protests since IEBC announced the outcome of the original election left many dead or injured. Raila placed the number of people killed at 215 but police denied this. Ndii has not only been vocal about corruption, misrule and extrajudicial killings among other economic and social ills, but also came out publicly to call for secession of a part of Kenya. He is the voice behind the formation of the People’s Republic of Kenya which seeks to exclude central and some parts of the former Rift Valley and Eastern provinces. Read: Apologise and compensate families of 215 killed by police, Raila tells Uhuru Also read: UhuRuto are wimps hiding behind power, David Ndii says on arrest Click here for the latest political stories