NASA leader Raila Odinga has assured his supporters that President Uhuru Kenyatta's tenure will not last until 2022. The Opposition chief said he will not watch as Kenyans are ruled against their will after the coalition rejected the October 26 repeat election. Raila said he will exploit the available remedies to "dissolve the illegitimate Jubilee government". Also read: Raila sends invitation cards for December 12 swearing in He spoke at Sidindi, Ugunja constituency on Saturday during the burial service of Collins Owino who was shot by police during his reception from the US. "Canaan is real," he assured the mourners. "An illegitimate government cannot be made legitimate through the use of arms and the power of the guns." "We are now living in a rogue state. A state that its key agenda is to kill its own people with no regard to the right of life," Raila said.  Opposition chief Raila Odinga after receiving a shield and a spear from Luo elders in Bondo on December 2.2017. /LAMECK BARAZA The former Premier said there are "so many ways of killing a cat, especially one that has gone rogue eating chicks." "Such a cat can either be skinned alive or stoned to death among other available avenues of ending its life," said Raila in reference to the Jubilee government. The opposition leader said they are going to use all means at their disposal for Jubilee to recognise the voice of the people. "We are going to make sure that we get rid of the Jubilee government by all means, including escalating economic boycott until the regime goes down," Raila said. Read: NASA has no option but to recognise Uhuru, accept dialogue - Mandago Related: The game is over until 2022, Marwa tells NASA over People's Assembly plan He said Kenyans cannot be stopped from reaching the Promised Land regardless of the man-made challenges created by Jubilee government. "The journey is unstoppable. They can come with the police officers, the army, and all the mighty of the state at their disposal but this will not prevent the people of Kenya from reaching Canaan. We shall reach Canaan," Raila said amid cheers from the crowd. The opposition chief said it is sad to see young persons' promising lives being cut short by trigger-happy police officers who have failed to abide by their code of ethics. He said such heinous acts by Jubilee government will not stop their quest for the 'Third Liberation' as they will remain focused. The Nasa chief said: "To add salt on injuries, the police went ahead to cut short the lives of nine Kenyans under the guise of Nairobi Business Community group." "Following the atrocities that have been committed by Jubilee regime, Kenyans will not allow a continuation of their execution for the next five years." Read: How Raila can still be President of a united Kenya, through time and pain Click here for the latest political news  