CARTELS at the
National Irrigation Board are rumoured to be a threatened lot. It’s said they
are working round the clock with the current management to approve payments for
suspicious projects. It’s said two of them were overheard saying that they
should ensure the management approves payments of up to Sh100 million before
they go for Christmas. The men are rumoured to be worried about the coming
Cabinet appointments by President Uhuru
Kenyatta. The appointments will affect CSs, PSs, and parastatal heads. They
want the NIB to pay the cash so that even if changes occur, they will be able
to share the money between them and the management.   A senior
engineer at the Kenya Ports Authority has come on the anti-corruption radar
after it emerged that he has been working in cahoots with some unscrupulous
contractors based in Mombasa to inflate the cost of the construction of the
planned Container Terminal Two by a whopping Sh1.5 billion. Sources at the
Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission have intimated that they are closely
following the matter to ensure the taxpayer does not lose such a huge amount,
especially at a time the economy is almost stagnant.          A Principal Secretary is giving staff
and suppliers at a ministry sleepless nights. Our moles say that the PS has
been seeking kickbacks from suppliers while bragging that there is nothing that
can be done to him by the bosses. The official claims to have a powerful
godfather within Jubilee circles. As a result, the PS has made numerous
unilateral changes as a way of eliminating those who are seeking to block the
unethical operations in the ministry. Recently, the PS requested the Exchequer
for some Sh248 million to pay to 12 suppliers said to be associated with her in
unclear procurement procedures but will not allow anyone to question the move.
This is despite the EACC investigating the PS for audit queries arising from
the ministry’s spending over the last four years.   A
first-term MP from Bungoma county is the talk of the town.  The man is
reported to be evading a female friend from whom he took a loan after winning
the seat. It’s said the MP was broke after the gruelling election and asked the
woman, who is a business lady, for a loan of Sh300, 000. However, the MP is
reported to have refused to pay back the money and has been evading the
lady.  Last week, he issued bouncing cheques to the lady, who reported the
matter to the police. It’s said the young MP has instructed his bodyguard not
to allow the lady near him.   Click here for latest political news  