NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi has said he will not abandon the opposition’s push for electoral justice, despite attempts by Jubilee to lure him into government. The Amani National Congress party leader on Sunday said politicians, from both NASA and Jubilee, have approached him to ditch the opposition. “They are pleading with me to calm down. They don’t know what steel I’m made of,” Mudavadi said. “Let me assure you that I cannot jump off this electoral justice reform train into an empty cattle carriage. That is my New Year message to them.” he said. MUdavadi did not name those approaching him to drop the anti-electoral fraud crusade. He said electoral reforms are not about NASA leader Raila Odinga. “It is for posterity. We must stop elections from being a theft ritual and make every count vote count,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi said Kenya is not a monarchy and called for reforms at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to ensure free and fair elections. “Elections must stop being a conspiracy of one, two or three tribes to steal from others. Every Kenyan must have an opportunity to vote and to win or lose fairly,” he said. He promised to push for thorough reforms for electoral justice. He said that Kenya’s foundation was being undermined by the impunity of the Jubilee regime. Mudavadi equated the Jubilee regime with “a group of pirates.” He questioned the purchase of a police helicopter for Sh2.7 billion. “It was quickly put in the air without insurance and immediately crashed to avoid audit queries,” Mudavadi said. He said such actions were fueling police brutality. “Ours isn’t a police service anymore but a political militia extorting, maiming and killing in a war zone in the name of defending the regime. Jubilee has undermined police reforms for political expediency and ethnic profiling,” Mudavadi said.  He spoke in Butula, Busia county, during a traditional ceremony in his honour. Several MPs from Western attended and promised to support his political vision. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and MPs Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Joseph Oyula, (Butula), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and former Butula MP Alfred Odhiambo said they will rally the Luhya community behind Mudavadi in 2022.