Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze died of a respiratory related ailment, the family said yesterday. Edith Nyenze, the MP’s wife, yesterday said her husband was diagnosed with colon cancer 10 years ago and sought treatment in UK and
India. Speaking at Lee Funeral home, she said her husband recovered fully. Recently, doctors diagnosed lung
complications. He was admitted to Nairobi hospital. “Mheshimiwa has been suffering for almost 10 years. He had cancer of the colon, he was treated and was ok. He has fought a good fight. Yesterday he was talking, he could still feed himself, he could
walk,” the widow said. She described him as a dedicated Christian, who served the people of Kitui West with
humility.  "He was the best
thing that God ever gave me. He was a very loving husband. A politician, but
faithful to the wife," Edith said.
 Leaders across the political divide yesterday united in eulogising Nyenze. They said he was a dedicated and firm leader, who spoke his mind openly. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, NASA
leader Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka called him dedicated.  Uhuru said the Kitui West MP championed a national agenda
and never allowed narrow selfish interests to jeopardise the unity of Kenyans. "I had known the late Nyenze since he was a Cabinet minister under President Daniel Moi’s administration. He was always keen on
preserving our unity and nationhood. I urge all of us to emulate his leadership
style," he said in a statement on Wednesday. Ruto said on Twitter the lawmaker as
an open-minded legislator who took  great great satisfaction in serving
his constituents. "Nyenze
was a voice of reason in and out of Parliament and spoke his mind," he
wrote. "His
strong personality, charm and wit rubbed off on those he interacted with. May
God give his loved ones and the people of Kitui county strength and fortitude
during this difficult time. Rest In Peace." NASA principals Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi
and Moses Wetang'ula in a joint statement said the party has lost a leader who stood by what he believed in. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. We wish
to convey heartfelt sympathies and sincere condolences to the people of Kitui
West and the country at large at this tragic moment. Nyenze served the
people of Kitui West and the country with dedication,”
said the leaders in a joint statement. “Nyenze steered our MPs in the National Assembly in a
difficult and hostile 2013-2017 through very careful balancing.” In his career, Nyenze served as an MP, minister for Environment and Heritage and Sports in 1997 and 2001 and was also Leader of Minority. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi described the late MP
as forthright. “The
National Assembly will doubtless be a poorer House without the hilarious
contribution and experience of the late MP,” said Muturi. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu said he spoke out his mind no matter the circumstances. The body is at the Lee
Funeral home. Water
CS Eugine Wamalwa, Kiema Kilonzo, Kitui Senator Enock Wambua, Makueni Governor
Kvutha kibwana, Kalonzo’s son Kennedy Musyoka and Makueni MP Dan Maanzo, were
among leaders, who condoled the family at Lee.