Most Kenyans are still unhappy with the services offered by the Judiciary, despite sustained transformation efforts, a new report says. The Annual Report on the State of the Judiciary 2017, which reflects customer satisfaction, says most customers complained of slow services ( 31 per cent), missing files ( 26 ) and poor services ( 17 ). The Judiciary is also still captive to corruption, which accounts for eight per cent of the complaints, the report says. Delay in the delivery of judgments also persists, despite the introduction of the Daily Returns Template system where judges file their rulings and judgments for accountability. Generally, there was a marginal three per cent improvement. The number of pending cases increased by over 34,000 to 533,350 by end of June, compared to 2016. Most of the cases ( 347,981 ) were in the civil division. Read: State officials unhappy with reforms - CJ The magistrate’s courts accounted for most of the cases ( 366,133 ), followed by the High Court ( 11,977 ). The Supreme Court had 73 cases.  The Judiciary categorised as “backlog” cases that “have been in the court system for over one year from the date they were filed.” The backlog accounted for 315,378 cases, of which 52,352 have been in court for over 10 years since they were filed.  Nearly half of them are in the High Court, despite the number of judges at the division having been increased over the last decade to reduce their work load and improve efficiency. Also Read:MPs to deny judiciary funds, says Kang’ata There are only 159 judges spread over the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and the High Courts across the country.  In the last financial year, only 38 cases were filed in the Supreme Court. Sixteen of them were heard and determined. The Court of Appeal, which operates on four separate sitting stations in Malindi, Kisumu, Nairobi and Nyeri, heard and resolved 1,052 cases.  In the same period, 20,553 fresh cases were filed in the High Court, whereas it heard and resolved 27,987 cases, most of them civil in nature. The Judiciary has however lamented the low budget allocation which it says hampers its transformation agenda and service delivery. “The Executive has been allocated on average 95 per cent and 99 per cent of the recurrent and development budget for the past five financial years respectively, with a balance of five per cent and one per cent of the recurrent and development budget being shared among the Judiciary and Parliament respectively,” the report says. It also accused the Interior ministry of taking the lion’s share of the budget allocated for the Governance, Justice, Law and Order sector.  In the 2016/17 financial year, the ministry of Interior gobbled up 64 per cent of the sector’s entire budget, followed by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission at 11 per cent. Prisons took 10 per cent while the Judiciary got only eight per cent. Although the Judiciary had submitted a budget of Sh23 billion to effectively finance its operations, it got Sh17 billion. The amount is below the internationally-recommended ratio of 2.5 per cent of the national budget. The judiciary has been forced to resort to development partners to plug the deficit.  According to the report, the use of M-Pesa, agency banking and direct banking have improved collections and accountability, leading to an increase in revenues.  The Judiciary collected Sh2.3 billion in 2017. Of the 5,729 employees, only 10 have doctorate degrees. Click here for latest political news