Generally, Kenyans have become very corrupt. In fact, we have become so corrupt that we have corrupted the meaning of Christmas, making it synonymous with food that smells nice and delicious such as chapati, meat and rice. This is especially so in the rural areas, where good food is not an everyday affair for everybody. Indeed, corruption has become so much ingrained in us that we fear to examine and give up our distorted meaning of Christmas. However, the genesis of the corruption of Christmas among Africans emanates not from anything inherently evil about us, but from our abject poverty that generally denies most of us good food except during Christmas. Were it not for the poverty that forces most of us to equate the meaning of Christmas with dreamlike food that comes to us only during Christmas, we would probably have been able to remember that the real objective of Christmas is not the food we eat. It is our celebrating the poor birth of Jesus, born to us as a leader of liberation anointed to preach the Good News of salvation to the poor, freedom of prisoners, return of vision to the blind and restoration of health to the sick and ultimately setting free the weak and the oppressed by ending their torture and tribulations. Later in his mission, Jesus would feed the hungry and restore life to the dead. Yet, when he was born, Jesus was not acknowledged by people as saviour because he was born in a stable while his mother and father were ordinary, poor folk. Had Jesus been born of King Herod or of Presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki or Uhuru Kenyatta, everybody would know him and acknowledge his kingly prospects. But because Jesus was not the son of a king or president, when Herod heard of his birth, he sent soldiers to kill him. When he failed to assassinate Jesus, Herod instructed all male children of less than two years be killed. He did not want a threat to his kingship or his children’s ascendancy to the throne. Here the important thing is not what befell Jesus but the fact that, even today, many Jesus get born in many countries and suffer the same fate as the Messiah. It maybe that the Jesus of today are not crucified on a cross, but are instead starved to death, killed by disease, tortured or simply assassinated with the bullet. To escape from Herod, Jesus was taken to exile in Egypt. Later Jesus and Herod met and this time Herod killed Jesus through crucifixion as if he were a political criminal charged with treason against the government of Julius Caesar. But as we said earlier, Jesus are born everyday in many countries and just as Jesus was killed, today many are also killed because they threaten the leadership of hunger, death, darkness and evil in their own countries. In Kenya, Tom Mboya, Pio Gama Pinto, JM Kariuki, Bishop Alexander Muge, Robert Ouko, Titus Adungosi, Karimi Nduthu and others of recent days were also killed for opposing their government. Though people celebrate the birth of Jesus every year, they maintain their sins and continue to celebrate Christmas with gusto. In truth, though they seek salvation, it is of their own kind that allows them to celebrate Jesus but also keep the pleasure of their evil. Unfortunately, most people don’t see how salvation can be mixed with evil and therefore don’t hesitate to kill Jesus every time they meet him. Jesus called it hypocrisy when people want both evil and salvation. In his time Jesus ruthlessly criticised the Pharisees, Sadducees, lawyers and scribes for their hypocrisy of preaching water and drinking wine. He also condemned kings who preached one thing and did another. Were Jesus on Earth today, he would attack leaders, pastors, priests, lawyers, journalists and ordinary people who celebrate his birth and simultaneously hunt down, put to prison, lie about and kill the Jesus of their own time. Jesus would also condemn ordinary people who go to church to celebrate his birth and worship him as saviour but every five years portray their hypocrisy when they refuse to elect Jesus but instead vote for Barnabas, the robber and killer, as their president, governor, senator, MP, woman rep or MCA. It is unbearable hypocrisy to commemorate the birth of Jesus and at the same time slander and reject the mission of Jesus to liberate the poor, feed the hungry and also free captives and the weak.  When we celebrate the birth of Jesus we should also remember our shame because this same Jesus we celebrate is the same Jesus we slander, lie about and kill every year during Easter. When we decorate Bethlehem, our towns and cities to celebrate the birth of Jesus, let’s not forget our evil of rejecting and taking him to Golgotha as we take our Jesus to Ngong and Got-a-Lila.