As the population of Trans Nzoia increases and land space decreases, small-scale farmers in the county are slowly venturing into dairy goat farming. Goats are easier to rear than cows and their milk is more nutritious, and though locals sneer at its smell and taste, Westerners love it, especially when it is used to make cheese. Sighting an opportunity to do business, one expert in the county has already ventured into goat cheese production as one way of value addition. Patrick Wasike, founder of Just Natural community-based organisation in Kitale town, started the project in August last year. He says milk from goats is considered nutritious since it contains micro and macronutrients the body requires, hence the western world consumes it most of the time. Goat milk is a good source of protein, and compared to a regular cow’s milk, contains less sugar (lactose), 13 per cent more calcium, 25 per cent more vitamin B6, 47 per cent more vitamin A, and 134 per cent more potassium. Wasike says increasing demand for cheese for missionaries and tourists from different countries in Kitale town made him start the project. “I took advantage of the missionaries’ craving for cheese to establish the CBO, and now I get frequent customers, especially missionaries in Kitale, at SoyMart Supermarket and individuals from the Netherlands,” he says.   CHEESEMAKING PROCESS The farmer says cheese making involves extracting water from milk to make it essential for the preservation and also transportation. Wasike says before he makes cheese, he analyses the origin of the milk, the background of the goat and how it is kept (the dairy goats must be checked by a vet and the regime of milking considered to ensure they are healthy), and the status of the milk (it needs regular checking to ensure it is healthy). Wasike says he obtains his milk for cheese from Crescent Farm Limited in Trans Nzoia, where they keep more than 300 goats that are improved and checked frequently by a vet. He says after the milk is collected, the process of making cheese begins at the cheesery table, where the milk is sieved and boiled, then kept for half an hour under the temperatures of 20 degrees or below, where bacteria is introduced to make the milk curd. “We then introduce a little bit of milk (five litres) every turn, we leave it for 15 to 30 minutes, then introduce Rennet (a chemical that coagulates or thickens milk during the cheesemaking process),” Wasike says. “In between half an hour to 24 hours, depending on the type of milk, the milk would curd, then carefully, we will cut the curd in sizes to let water drain out.”  He says that depending on the type of cheese one wants to make, he begins fitting them in moulds of different sizes to attain to the size of cheese. For him, he makes cheese that is between 110-120g. “As the curds are put in the moulds, we let water drip by turning the cheese in a special way to avoid breaking it, and after 12 hours, it will have dripped enough and started solidifying. I then start unmolding the cheese and salt for taste,” he explains. “Then it is spread on a clean mat and left to dry. I keep on turning it until it dries completely. At that point, the cheese is very fresh and ready for consumption,” he points out. PROFITABLE BUSINESS He says he makes 10-12 pieces of cheese twice a week from 5 litres of goat milk, with one piece selling at Sh150. “I make about Sh1,500 per week and Sh6,000 a month from the sale of cheese,” he says. Wasike learned the art of cheesemaking from Uganda, while working for a Belgian organisation carrying out a programme on sustainable agriculture in 2011. He says there were Dutch fellows he was working with and through technology transfer, they formed a homemade company called Kanamkara, in which they were making different types of cheese and selling to National Organic Agricultural Movement of Uganda (Nogamu). When the project folded, Wasike came back to Kenya and furthered his training at the Manor House Agricultural Training Centre with the aid of a German woman called Briter Aste, who also helped him establish the Just Natural CBO. Wasike says he envisions starting an organic garden restaurant, where he will be dealing in western and African dishes, to take advantage of the tourists and missionaries trooping to Kitale. And one of the dishes he has identified is cheese made from goat milk.   SLOW UPTAKE As Wasike makes his strides, Livestock Production director Barasa Mwombe says the county is still too far from producing enough milk for cheese from goats, as most farmers are large-scale and prefer keeping cows to goats. He says many land plots are huge, and that is why most farmers keep cows for commercial purposes rather than goats. “Farmers in Trans Nzoia feel that if you have enough land and are going commercial, it is better you choose cows. They don’t see any value in goat farming,” Mwombe says. He says, however, that the idea of goat farming will grow slowly if it is introduced among the vulnerable. “Most farmers are still telephone farmers, yet goat farming needs people who spend most of their time on the farm,” he says. “Vulnerable persons are able to stay with the goats and take care of them properly, unlike the rich who farm while away.”  Mwombe said this has worked well through a project targeting landless widows, where the national government donated goats to try and eradicate poverty among the group through milk production in an economic way. He says through the project, called Small Holder Dairy Commercialisation Programme, the national government donated over 200 goats to vulnerable women and widows since 2006, aiming to improve their living standards. The SHDC Project county coordinator Bernard Bett says the programme was started in Endebess subcounty. However, it was later expanded in 2009 to include widows from Kiminini, Waitaluk and then to Sitatunga and Kaplamai areas in Trans Nzoia county. He says they sourced the goats from Central province, where they are reared in large numbers due to a huge population of residents and diminished lands. Mwombe says it is through the programme that Trans Nzoia had for the first time a mass introduction of goats, but the programme will end this year. In the next phase, which is an up-scaling programme, the government has replaced the goats with cows. However, the director says protein from goat milk makes it easily absorbed in the digestive system, adding that the ease of absorption in the gut is linked to it having medicinal value. Through the project, Mwombe says nutritional gains at household levels has been noted, whereby children who had ringworms have shown an improvement in their health in three months after consuming goat milk. The county director said in the North Rift region, farmers have given little attention to goat farming, unlike in the western parts of Kenya like Vihiga county, where there is a higher concentration of goats. He says most projects targeting goat farming have been done in Vihiga, which has also made many farmers register with the Dairy Goat Association of Kenya that encourages production of dairy goat milk. Mwombe says that as a move to encourage more farmers to venture into dairy goat farming, they are using the organised farmers in Vihiga to mobilise farmers in Trans Nzoia to register with the DGAK.   TASTE, SMELL BARRIER The director says local demand for goat milk is still poor. “This is because they talk about the smell from the milk, which keeps them off,” Mwombe says, blaming it on poor milking habits by the farmers. He says the taste and smell is marred if the buck is around while milking, as its smell is absorbed in the milk. This can be avoided if the milker ensures the wind direction is diverted from the buck while milking. “This way you get good quality goat’s milk,” Mwombe says. David Were, livestock trainer in charge of dairy goats at the Manor House ATC in Kitale town, says dairy goats are small animals that can produce milk to farmers in an economic way.  He says that unlike cows, which feed on lumpsum amounts of food to produce milk, dairy goats eat much less. Were says eight dairy goats can feed on the amount of food that one dairy cow consumes.  And from one dairy goat, a farmer gets 2-3 litres of milk, equivalent to 16-18 liters of milk a farmer gets from one cow from the same amount of feed. “For small-scale farmers who have a challenge in feeding dairy cows, they can easily produce milk from the dairy goat,” he says. Mwombe says that since the market is liberal, goat milk sells at Sh35 at the farm level and Sh50 at the market, especially in town.   NEED FOR MARKET SURVEY The director says goat farming as an enterprise can do well to small-scale farmers but that those who want to commercialise the enterprise must be careful. He advises them to carry out a market survey before venturing into any enterprise. The director said they should hire simple market surveyors before deciding to venture into large-scale farming and value addition of goat milk. “If one has to venture, they must look at the value chain, since there are those who are doing the same business in Central province and selling the products in Nairobi, and they are reaping good amounts of money out of it,” Mwombe says. “The question is, once you get the milk, where will you sell it and at what price?”  The director, however, says alternatively, there are opportunities in doing breeding and being a supplier of breeding stocks to others, but he said that one needs to put up a structure so that it becomes a business.