An ex-GSU officer serving a death sentence has escaped from the Siaya GK Prison. Francis Musyoka was found guilty of robbery with violence. Musyoka has been described as dangerous. A prison warder said the ex-officer escaped on Thursday at around 6.30pm. The warder said Musyoka jumped over the prison fence before disappearing into thickets. Musyoka’s escape on Thursday left Siaya town rent with gunshots for close to half an hour. The police did not re-arrest him.  NO LUCK The police searched Siaya town the whole night but were not able to catch Musyoka. They insist he has not left the town. Unconfirmed reports indicate Musyoka was an ex-GSU officer attached to the Anti-Stock Theft Unit before he was sacked in 2015 for gross misconduct. Since then the ex-officer has been involved in a series of crimes to make ends meet. Musyoka is accused of more than five violent robberies across the country. The court only found him guilty of two cases.  In 2015, a Siaya court found Musyoka guilty of violent robbery in an incident at Yala. A Vihiga court also found him guilty of the same offence and issued a death sentence. Musyoka was charged together with his accomplice from Meru who also tried to escape but was accosted by the Flying Squad. His accomplice is still at the Siaya GK Prison serving his sentence. Siaya police chief Ancent Kaloki said Musyoka has been at the prison for only three weeks. APPEAL UNSUCCESSFUL His appeal application has been unsuccessful and police say this may have pushed him to plan the escape. The inmate comes from Ukambani and police have set up police checkpoints on all exits. “Our officers have erected roadblocks all over since Thursday evening and we are certain the culprit is not out of Siaya,” Kaloki said. Meanwhile, a student at the Kisii University has appeared at the High Court in Migori, accused of raping a 10-year-old girl. Calvin Jaoko, 20, denied the charge before senior resident magistrate Martin Wachira. State counsel told the court the suspect committed the crime on November 30 in a maize plantation at Oruba estate in Migori town. SPEEDY PROBE Jaoko was released on Sh200,000 bail. The case will be mentioned on December 20. Speaking outside the court, Kisii University Migori Campus student leader Philip Ochieng urged police to speed up the investigation.  “Our comrade needs to get time to revise for his examinations scheduled for next week on Monday,” he said. The suspect was arrested on Tuesday after going into hiding when the media highlighted the plight of the child. Migori police commander Joseph Nthenge said, “We are happy the suspect will face the law after he was arrested as he tried to evade the law.”  He called on parents and the public to report on time and help during the court process in cases of sexual crimes to bring suspects to justice.  Nthenge warned that most cases in court fail to take off as witnesses refuse to turn up in court after families opt for an out-of-court deal. He said the settlements deny victims justice.  “The long-term effect is a society that takes lightly cases of sexual assaults which are seen as normal by the public,” he warned. On Monday, the family of the victim called for help in arresting the suspect. The girl’s aunt said Jaoko’s family threatened them after reporting the matter.  Nthenge added, “We have reported the matter and handled several from the same estate. We are conducting thorough investigations, and soon we will arrest the perpetrators.”