Those found gambling and betting in Vihiga county must be ready to face the full force of the law. This is according to Governor Wilbur Otichilo and county commissioner Alex ole Nkoyo. They have expressed concern that the practice has turned into a disaster. On Tuesday during the Jamhuri Day celebrations, the two blamed gambling and betting for the rising crime in the county. Otichilo said many youths suffer from addiction and do anything to get cash for gambling. He ordered investigations to find out who permitted Chinese gambling machines into the county. “My administration has not issued any licence to these swindlers draining money from our youths’ pockets,” Otichilo said in Mbale Municipal Grounds. The machines have transformed youths into lazy people who think they can make fortunes without working, he said. Ottichilo said he banned the machines, but their owners have defied him. Nkoyo reminded gamblers that “the government’s position is still the same”. “Last year, then Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery declared gambling a national security issue and that is still the position,” he said. Nkoyo ordered subcounty commissioners, chiefs and other provincial administrators to swiftly impound all gambling machines. “The law on gambling is very clear. The government only gives licences to casinos. The county government does not give licence to operators of the Chinese gambling machines.” Nkoyo’s intervention is a huge boost to Otichilo, who planned to use the Vihiga county assembly to pass laws on gambling and betting. The Star has established that all the joints notoriously known for operating the machines were deserted immediately after their customers heard the speech, which was broadcast live on local radio. Three months ago during his swearing-in ceremony, Otichilo banned gambling, but his directive fell on deaf ears. The decision by Nkoyo to include police and other administrators in the crackdown could help rid the county of the game. Some residents have, however, said they will not quit. A member of a popular betting zone in Mbale town yesterday said they will now concentrate on online betting. “We’ll quietly do it in our houses without having to be confronted by police,” he said. Click here for the latest political news    