When I read Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma’s secession Bill, I feel sure that — were this divorce ever to go through — it will be tremendous victory for negative ethnicity and a great tragedy for Kenya, nationalism and Pan-Africanism.  It wants to pit 40 counties against seven or 44 tribes against one or two. I have little doubt that if a Central Republic of Kenya and a People’s Republic of Kenya were to be born through secession, those two countries would be weaker than the Kenya we have, however imperfect. It would neither be the end of Kenya’s problems. It could only get worse. Julius Nyerere said were secession to be encouraged in Africa, with more than 2,000 ethnic communities, it would balkanise and disintegrate until every ethnic community and clan would be an independent state or republic. Unfortunately, this is not the first time non-Gema or Gema communities have threatened to secede, or Kenya has been threatened by secession. After Independence, Kenyan Somalis sought secession through the Shifta War and in 1997, leaders of the Kikuyu called for secession in their own defence against state terror. But Shifta War failed and Kikuyu leaders abandoned secession when they realised they could use other means to change the government Today, many reasons have been advanced to pursue Kaluma’s secession Bill, as well as the one pushed by Governors Amason Kingi of Kilifi and Hassan Joho of Mombasa.  Kaluma’s first justification of secession is that the Kikuyu bourgeois has internally colonised other communities, who now need liberation from Gema through a divorce. But while post-Independence governments took more development to areas inhabited by Gema, it cannot be said the Kikuyu have colonised, oppressed, exploited and confined other communities into Bantustans, wherein they exploit them the way the colonial government put all Africans into so-called native reserves and denied them much. The assumption here is that the Kikuyu elite dominates and marginalises other ethnic elites as they were colonised by White elites, and then move to subject non-Kikuyu ethnic masses to exploitation from which they spare Kikuyu masses. But as Kikuyu elites exploit their own and other masses, the other ethnic elites also exploit their own and others. It’s funny that they justify exclusion from Gema communities in secession with a “right” to exploit their own masses exclusively. And rather than focus on the sins of the Kikuyu and other ethnic elites, non-Kikuyu elites accuse Gema of marginalising other communities in resource allocation and jobs.  No ethnic elite should be equated with their entire communities. Equally, sins of the elite are not to be blamed on the entire community. It is also not right to claim Kikuyu masses own the same properties and wealth their elites own. I am a Kikuyu but don’t share the elite’s wealth and power. By refusing to equate Gema elites with the Colonial ones, I also deny the claim that the best way of liberating non-Kikuyus from the alleged Kikuyu domination is through secession. Gema masses are marginalised and impoverished into similar and sometimes more injustice than the non-Gema. So if Gema masses are as impoverished as their counterparts, it must mean the cure of this shared poverty and marginalisation must be the liberation of the same poor people who will cut across the two “republics”. Advocates of breakaway are not entirely honest when they base their calls for secession on claims that small communities are marginalised and excluded from certain political offices such as the presidency. Victims of economic and political exclusion include the poor from all communities without exception. Consequently, we do not need secession to end poverty and marginalization. We need democracy and class liberation of everybody. But if secession is passed by Kenyans in a referendum, I have no doubt that the countries that will be born out of it will have the same problems that communities now collectively have in Kenya guided by negative ethnicity. To solve our political and economic problems, some people believe we must redraw the map of Kenya and Africa. Portraying secession as the ultimate solution, ethnic elites propose the best and surest way to endhistorical injustices is to dissolve national boundaries and give every ethnic community a country of its own. Basically, in effect, they want to redraw the map of Kenya and Africa. But creating African ethnic states would perhaps be the worst crime in Kenya. It would make Kenya, as we know it, and Africa, as weak and vulnerable as when the slave trade and colonialism subjected us to history’s longest holocaust. Political and economic problems will only be solved by dialogue, social democracy, equality, non-ethnic political competition for political power and equitable sharing of resources among all.    