It was case of mixed fortunes on the rugby front this year with both national teams—Shujaa and kenya Simbas failed to live up expectations. The Kenya Sevens team Shujaa garnered paltry 63 points from the 10 legs of the World Sevens Series circuit for the 2016-2017 season to languish in 12th place—a far cry from a year ago where they were the darlings of the Kenyan sporting fabric after winning the Singapore leg and qualifying for the Rio Olympics. Innocent Simiyu’s charges made it only to two Main Cup quarterfinal events in Cape Town and Singapore with eight of the remaining legs playing in the Challenge Cup Trophy. Simiyu attributed the poor season to inadequate preparations after a strike by the players over unpaid dues in the lead up to the season opener in Dubai as one of the reasons for the team’s struggles last season. “We didn’t have a good pre-season. We started the season late and there were couple of issues we could not control. You saw the defensive lapses in some of our matches which pretty boils down to poor preparations. You need to put in the yards of hard work in pre-season to ensure you are not only competitive but also firing on all cylinders,” he added Simiyu was to be given a vote of confidence by the board during the season review to continue on as coach and has so far garnered 13 points in the opening two legs of the 2017-2018 World Sevens Series in Dubai and Cape Town Kenya to sit 11th on the standings. In fact, they look a better outfit than they were last season in several facets of play. The 2018 season promises to be gruelling year for Shujaa with the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast in Australia in April and the Rugby World Cup sevens in USA in July alongside the WSS. After a successful 2016, where the Kenya Simbas jumped to 22nd in the world rugby rankings, They were inconsistent in 2017, a year marked by mixed performances which culminated in thee sacking of South African tactician Jerome Paarwater after a highly successful six-year stint with the side. The team started their preparations late for the international season with several key players being axed from the training squad. The Simbas played 12 matches—the highest they have had in a single calendar year. In their opening match of the season, they lost 30-29 to Germany in an entertaining match before bouncing back two weeks later to beat Uganda 23-18 in Kampala in the Elgon Cup Cum Africa Gold Cup first leg clash. The Ugandans were to come out blazing in the second leg return leg match and almost reclaimed the trophy, only for Kenya to steal a last minute try to tie the match 33-33 and retain the Elgon Cup with a 56-51 aggregate. This left many Kenyan rugby enthusiasts scratching their heads over what may happened to a team that in the previous two seasons had put the Uganda Cranes to the sword. The results were to improve with the Simbas trashing Tunisia 100-10 and Senegal 45-25. They also won 41-22 over rivals Zimbabwe in the Africa Gold Cup fixtures, a result that saw them rise to the second slot with a tough trip to face holders Namibia in Windhoek in the final match. The confidence gained from those results soon went up in smoke as the hosts ran in seven tries to beat Kenya 45-7. Simbas had the Tatu City Series to negotiate against Hong Kong in August as they sought to improve their ranking. However, they drew the opening game 19-19 before losing the second match 44-34 to relinquish the trophy they had won in 2016. Worse was to follow for the Simbas fortunes when they travelled to the Far East for the Four Nations tournament in November, which was being used a warm up ahead of the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in next year. Kenya lost 23-3 to Chile, 31-10 to Russia and 40-30 to hosts Hong Kong and finished the year on a whimper to plummet to 30 in the rankings. A new coach is expected in the new year to guide the team ahead of the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in June On the club front, KCB reclaimed the Kenya Cup crown with a clinical 36-8 demolition of Kabras at Ruaraka. The bankers who had a slow start to the season finally found their groove in the play-offs in the knockout rounds to seal a fifth league win. It was all about discipline, hard-work and good defence that delivered this victory,” said KCB skipper Curtis Lilako. “We had to re-think our strategy especially our porous defence after we lost to Impala and Homeboyz in the regular season.” Lilako said they failed to defend their title last season due to injuries. He said his team was also going through a transition after many players joined from their feeder side. “Our defence won the game for us,” said Olago, who praised his charges for a superb display. “I really didn’t expect to win the duel by that margin.” KCB then bagged the Enterprise Cup beating Kabras (27-23) for the second time to finish with a double. Kabras bounced back to win the National Sevens circuit after bagging Sepetuka and Christie Sevens to edge previous champions Homeboyz to second place overall with Impala third. The Kenya Lionesses qualified for the Commonwealth Games after finishing second to South Africa final in Tunis.