Title: War & Leisure Artist: Miguel Genre: R&B  Release: December 1   It's been a big year for the R&B fraternity and fans who've witnessed major releases that have grabbed the spotlight in all ways possible. We've seen Khalid's "American Teen," Daniel Ceasar "Freudian", Bryson Tiller's "True to Self", SZA's "Ctrl" and many others dominate the charts. And Miguel Pimentel was not going to be left out of the party.  Miguel's fourth studio production, "War and Leisure", dropped just at the perfect time, when sentimental tunes seem to be pop's current trend. It maintains the vibe of well-thought-out, contemporary R&B tunes that have formed a major component of radio and personal playlists this year. The 12-track album opens with Criminal, which features bars from American rapper Rick Ross. Travis Scott is one of the key collaborators who helps bring the album to focus In the lead single Sky Walker. Kali Uchis, who is now among the who's who of female artistes, offers her vocals on Caramelo Duro.  It seems J Cole is now one of Miguel's frequent collaborators, as the rapper offers intimate, conscious bars on Come Through and Chill, which also features Salaam Remi. QUIÑ is featured on the fifth track, Wolf. The album also has other essential tracks such as Pineapple Skies, Banana Clip and City of Angels. Miguel is only 32. He was simply a proper storyteller, and it's obvious there's a lot that explains his maturation as a songwriter. He has proven himself to be among the most gifted singer-songwriters of this generation on various occasions. Somehow, he has always lived up to his fans' expectations, whether it is simply in the way he presents himself and his music, or simply because he provides the much-needed erotic fantasies. Miguel is adept at translating and narrating the story of romance. He is a fully formed artiste to those aware of his craft.  "War and Pleasure" has a concept that legitimately feels steamy, intimate and fun to listen to. There's a lot here that most might relate to — an open-minded definition of what's happening around him.   Star rating: 4 out of 5 