Scottish novelist Robert Louis Stevenson wrote The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde in 1886.  The plot of this classic Gothic novella revolves around a well-respected member of London society called Henry Jekyll. Jekyll is a medical doctor, scientist and academician. He experiments in his laboratory with a concoction, which when consumed, brings out two sides of his personality.  The good side is embodied in Dr Jekyll himself with all his positive attributes. The bad side finds expression in a repulsive creature christened Mr Hyde. Initially, Dr Jekyll can alternate from one personality to the other at will but with time, the darker, malevolent side of Mr Hyde consumes Dr Jekyll, leading to an irreversible breakdown of his personal, social and professional life. The tale has a cataclysmic ending in which the duality of the man fails to find peaceful expression or existence. President Uhuru Kenyatta was on Tuesday sworn in for his second and final term. His inauguration speech was a departure from the one he gave in 2013.  At that time, his election having been upheld unanimously by the Supreme Court, he was magnanimous in victory, embracing friend and opponent alike. And he could afford to be. He had defeated Raila Odinga in the first round of that election, which was largely seen as Raila’s to lose. Uhuru’s first term was a breath of fresh air in many ways. Together with Deputy President William Ruto, the “digital duo” completely demystified the presidency and brought it closer to the people.  First, there were the identical white rolled-up shirt sleeves and red ties, signifying a desire to get down to work with the masses. Then came the high-fives and exuberant backslapping, public displays of camaraderie hitherto unseen before between a President and his DP. Uhuru removed the stuffiness from the presidency. He was this traffic-stopping man of the people, who had a word for everyone, regardless of their stature in society. His security detail would move to cut off enthusiastic supporters but Uhuru would intervene to allow them to mix freely with him. In this regard, he won the hearts of friend and foe.  Uhuru lived up to the billing of being “digital” through mastery of various subjects and his public articulation of the same. By comparison, President Daniel Moi would read his speeches haltingly, exposing his educational limits. President Mwai Kibaki would lumber through his speeches, staring fixedly at the teleprompter like a deer caught in the headlights. Uhuru, on the other hand, shone, nay, he dazzled. His was the performance of gift. He was a natural. Nothing about his television appearances appeared contrived, nor did he seem to be aware of his winsome charm. And he was at ease with his public school diction as he was speaking Sheng to some market folk at Gikomba, the consummate Dr Jekyll in action.  The last two years of his first term coupled with the bruising election campaigns appear to have brought to the fore the other side of Uhuru Kenyatta. It would seem Kenyans have collectively contributed to the concoction that brought out Mr Hyde. Gone is the reticence. Gone is the naive and trusting President, who thought the best of every Kenyan, even his foes. And Uhuru is not entirely to blame for this change. He has endured backstabbing by those he trusted, been pilloried by the same press who adored him, betrayed by those entrusted with running key ministries and bedevilled by mega scandals, some of them touching on members of his extended family.   That there has been a change of tone is now rather obvious. First, in a fit of pique, Uhuru labelled the Supreme Court as being composed of “wakora” or crooks for the annulment of his August 8 ‘victory.’ Second, he gave short shrift to calls to reform the IEBC, he was unwilling and unyielding in the face of the clamour for the electoral agency to conduct a free, fair and credible election. That he is now the substantive President of Kenya is now a fait accompli, but there is much to be done to move us forward as a country.   In his first speech this week, he stated categorically that the “rule of law” would be the framework for any negotiations. He also warned that anarchists would be dealt with firmly. In a departure from the soft persuasions of the past, his mailed fist is now emerging from the velvet glove. No more Mr Nice Guy. Uhuru’s alter ego David Murathe appeared to set the tone a few months ago, when he alluded to a crackdown on corruption. Uhuru himself said as much in this week’s speech.  But there must be clear demonstrations that he means business. He must walk the talk. A good place to start would be with the composition of his new Cabinet. To begin the process of healing and inclusion, this Cabinet must of necessity, reflect the ethnic diversity of this country. He must also lead a purge of the corrupt. Of interest, too, will be the way he relates with the Judiciary. After vowing to revisit the courts, it remains to be seen whether he will honour the doctrine of separation of powers, and allow the Judiciary to perform its independent role. Last but not least, will be the way he handles his perennial rival, Raila. The opposition chief and his followers do not recognise his presidency. In fact, Raila has started a ‘soft power’ revolution through boycotts of certain products, mass protests and civil disobedience. These disruptions cannot be wished away. They have the unsettling potential of scaring off much needed Foreign Direct Investment. We must, therefore, as a country, strive to retain the aura of a haven of peace to maintain our economic ascendancy in the region. Tanzania is watching and so are Uganda and Rwanda. A solution must be found whether it be in negotiated settlement or in brutal repression. In the words of prolific Italian writer Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, “Everything must change so that nothing will change.”  Whilst the next few weeks will be Uhuru’s watershed moment, the next five years will be instructive in determining whether President Uhuru’s legacy will be that of Dr Jekyll or Mr Hyde.     Leonard Khafafa is the vice Chairman, Kenya-Turkey Business Council      