The government will amend laws and policies governing agricultural export commodities mainly coffee and tea to enhance value addition by up to 50 per cent.  "Our desire is to increase value addition up to 50 per cent in the medium term. key mission is to work with local organisation already in value addition in order to assist them upscale their processing capacities," said cabinet secretary ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Co-operatives Adan Mohamed.  He added the government will support organisations and traders to enrich products so that they can attract premium prices at the international markets during the Sasini coffee factory 11th farmers open day. He said the government will intensify market linkages between producers and traders.  Sasini Group Chairman Naushad Merali said besides deepening presence in traditional markets, they are looking for new markets mainly in Middle East and Asia. “In another 10 days, some officers will be travelling to Europe to secure more roasters who have expressed interest in working with Sasini,” said Merali. Most of Kenya's coffee is exported to Europe and USA of late has become a lucrative market. However, Merali noted that some market segments are still not tapped thus providing a good justification for the company to deepen its foot prints in the 27 member EU bloc.  “Our target is to deepen presence in old markets. Further, the intention will be focused in already untapped market sections in EU. The market expansion plan will further be rolled out in Asian and Middle East countries where demand of coffee of late has gone up due to expansion of middle class and increase in economic growth,” said Merali. “During the 2017 coffee season, critical contacts have been established and huge interest for your coffee has been developed. We remain optimistic that over 50 per cent of the coffee handled at our mill this year will be sold directly to overseas buyers thus attracting a premium price for our farmers. ” He said the company will fully exploit the coffee direct sales window that equally promises superior prices for smallholder farmers' coffee. “Through the Direct sales’ effort, farmers from Kagumoini factory of Mugaga Society in Nyeri paid their farmers at an all-time high rate of Sh109 per kilogramme of cherry,” he said.  He assured his company has fully engaged its research and development unit to look for other coffee friendly ventures which can caution the returns from coffee during the low seasons. “We are implementing a new investment and diversification strategy to help us recoup the company profitability trend. Our plan is to extend new investments in the avocado export business, dairy and macadamia subsectors,” he said. The company is almost completing a Sh530 million state of the art macadamia factory in a 20 acre farm located in Ndumberi farm next to its coffee mill in Kiambu County and an embryo production centre at Mweiga farm. Merali explained the company has set aside a seed capital of Sh50 million to fast track an avocado export business pilot project. The general Manager in charge of Coffee Operations James Muriithi confirmed that the company has planted about 40,000 Macadamia seedlings within the coffee estates at desirable spacing that will not affect the production of coffee. “We anticipate this will guarantee an extra resultant positive value of about Sh300, 000 per ha. I urge all farmers to emulate this programme and improve their bottom line. In the coming year, we shall have substantial grafted seedlings ready for uptake by the farmers,” said Muriithi.