It is sometimes very difficult to appreciate the thinking that goes into some of NASA’s actions. They tell us that Raila Odinga obtained the majority votes and therefore won the August 8 election. He however went to court and the Supreme Court nullified the result. But he still insists that he won. It is therefore on the basis of a nullified result (which nullification he celebrated) that Raila wants to have himself sworn in tomorrow. The Supreme Court in nullifying the August election meant that there was no election after all. On the basis of this determination, it ordered a re-run in 60 days. If he is arrested and taken to court, then his legal options will be few. He must first convince the judges on what basis he chose to take the oath of the Office of the President when there is already a legally elected and sworn-in President. After the coup-attempt of 1982, there were many questions as to who would have wanted to remove the good government of Baba Moi. As schoolchildren, we knew that we had an angel for a President. It was only as adults that we began to see the level of absolutism and kleptocracy in the Moi regime and so we began to appreciate the justification for the putsch. Even with whatever justification, the law of the land was firmly behind the President. Every government, no matter what adjective can describe its failings, has a fundamental right of self-preservation from both internal and external threats. Moi went ahead and signed the hanging orders for the coup plotters (albeit for the last time). Reading the accounts of the final moments of one-time-choir-boy-turned-coup-maker Hezekiah Ochuka Rabala, one is filled with a sense of compunction at the experiences they had to go through. On the night the hangman was to do his job, each of the coup plotters asked for and was given their favourite beer before being led to the noose hours later. They cried remorsefully that it had finally come to that. But the Government did not have their man. Raila Odinga, whose bidding the young men claimed they were doing, was saved from the noose, some say by his last name. It would have looked bad for Government to hang the son of the first Vice President, even though they could have. If found guilty, Raila will have worked hard to become the eighth man.