Police yesterday arrested an officer who killed the deputy OCS at the Makueni police station and injured two of his colleagues before fleeing the station with his AK-47 rifle on Wednesday night. The Constable, identified as Friday Barasa, was working at the station’s records office before the incident occurred at around at 8.45pm. This came soon after Constable Alex Kimeli, who had overheard him threaten to kill someone, reported to his senior, Sergeant Elias Mwaisaka, who in turn brought it to the attention of deputy OCS Dennis Wanjala. As the officers attempted to find out what the problem was, Barasa opened fire on them. He killed Wanjala on the spot and left an officer, identified as Mwaisaka, with shoulder injuries and another identified as Kiptuno with a bullet wound on his left leg, Makueni police chief Bosita Omukolongolo said. The two were rushed to Makueni Referral Hospital. Hospital boss Emmanuel Laiposha said they are out of danger. ”The officer is at large but we are looking for him. We are yet to know why he shot his colleagues,” Omukolongolo told the media at his office before Barasa was arrested. Yesterday, tension engulfed the area, as officers remained tight-lipped on the attack that goes down as the first case of its kind at the station. “We have yet to establish why and what provoked him to open fire on his colleagues,” Omukolongolo said at his office yesterday. Detectives and a contingent of police officers immediately started searching for Barasa. Makueni police commander Joseph Napeiyan said police got word that the officer was attempting to access the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. They immediately mounted a roadblock near Makindu town.  Napeiyan said Barasa was later traced to Kwa Kanzi and arrested. He said Barasa would be “dealt with according to the law”. Several cases of police officers killing their colleagues have been reported this year. Earlier this year, police officers attached to Boya police station in Nyando, Kisumu county, shot and killed their colleague in unclear circumstances. On the fateful night, Constable Martin Kinyua was shot dead, as he lay resting in a car parked outside a petrol station 300 metres from the police station. In June, an AP officer turned his gun on his colleagues, killing two and injuring another in Baringo South. In February, one of the officers attached to the Embakasi police station shot dead his colleague then turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger.