The Center for Multiparty Democracy has urged
President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint members of opposition in the Cabinet to enable the country to heal.  The group said the country is suffering
from a political stalemate, which requires an urgent solution.  Uhuru is expected to name his Cabinet soon. Read : Uhuru to sack ministers in big clear-out  Cabinet Secretaries have been directed to prepare handover notes. The political parties umbrella rooted for an all-inclusive
government as the only option to take the country out of the quagmire
it has found itself in after the August 8 General Election and
the October 26 repeat presidential poll. The CMD also offered to initiate a structured
national dialogue to effect changes in the Constitution to eliminate the winner
takes-it-all mentality. Chairman Omingo
Magara yesterday said CMD will in two weeks facilitate the formation of a seven-member
bipartisan task force committee to spearhead the national dialogue initiative.  "We have a political problem,
which must be solved politically. We require a non-partisan body to bring these
leaders together for a national dialogue," he said. The task force committee proposed by
CMD will draw its membership from the civil society, workers’ union, legal
fraternity and professional bodies. “It is not possible to bring warring
factions together, unless you are seen to be non-partisan,” Magara said. Read : Uhuru to replace non- performing ministers Last month, the National Council of Churches of Kenya proposed an
expansion of the executive to allow the President appoint a Prime Minister and two
deputies to achieve inclusivity in
government. The churches’ council also
demanded reintroduction of a powerful leader of the official opposition to
ensure inclusivity. “We hasten to add this is an expanded executive of
the winning party or coalition and not a nusu mkate arrangement,” NCCK secretary general Reverend Canon Peter Karanja said. “If coalitions are made with parties or individuals
who ran for election outside the winning party, it would be at the
discretion of and under the unequivocal leadership of the elected President.” Uhuru had, upon his reelection, hinted of
a dialogue. The Supreme Court judges on November 20 unanimously
upheld Uhuru's reelection on October 26. Click here for the latest political news