Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has dismissed a fake Facebook account purporting that he plagiarised a post shared by Dubai's Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid. The governor is among many state officers targeted in a wave of fake Facebook accounts. Sonko clarified  that the pages are fake and are meant to taint his image. "This is to inform the general public that all Facebook accounts in the name of Mike Sonko or Mike Mbuvi Sonko are fake," he said. In a statement on Thursday, Sonko said his official page is registered as Mike Sonko, has 1.3 million likes and is verified by Facebook through a blue tick. "I wish to alert members of the public to ignore all unverified social media accounts operated in my name as they are all fake and misleading," he said. Sonko was reacting after a fake account claimed he was chairing a meeting of executive council which was allegedly attended by the President.  The same post claimed he had chaired another meeting attended by Sheikh Rashid. Read: Sonko holds first cabinet meeting, bumps into Kidero "Please take note that no such meetings took place and these are propaganda peddled by busy bodies out to malign my name," Sonko tsaid. The governor said the fake accounts also offer free motor bikes and employment opportunities to unsuspecting members of the public. "The fake FB accounts which had been taken down by Facebook fraudsters have continued to spring up and making fake offers," he said. "Please do not make any payment for whatever service and report the fraudsters to the authorities for quick action." In 2014, a man suspected to have swindled thousands of unsuspecting members of the public of their money by impersonating Sonko was charged in a Nairobi court. Joseph Njoki allegedly created a Facebook page account under the name "Mike Sonko Foundation".  It is alleged that he used it to solicit funds from unwary members of the public.  He was arrested on July 24 by Flying Squad officers after the governor, then senator, reported the matter. More on this: 'Fake' Sonko held over Facebook con Click here for latest political news  