As we look forward to all the new programming in 2018, it is also important to appreciate all the great shows that excited and enchanted us this year. I list the top 10 shows that premiered in 2017 and are a must-watch.   10. Will & Grace A huge resurrection this year was that of the loveable odd couple Will & Grace, reuniting 20 years after the last episode was aired.   9. Prison Break This is the ‘final’, final break of the most-revered show in television. The series returned for one last season eight years after the TV movie, Prison Break: The Final Break, was aired.   8. The Mick Mickey is forced to be the guardian of her niece and nephews when her sister and husband flee the country to avoid being jailed for fraud. The show provides us with a weekly dose of fun and laughter.   7. Atypical Atypical is a captivating show about an autistic 17-year-old boy who wants nothing more than to fit-in in high school and get a girlfriend. Atypical is not only an intriguing show, it gives insight into the lives of people living with autism as well as how it impacts their families.   6. 13 Reasons Why Hannah Baker commits suicide but leaves behind 13 audio-cassette tapes to the 13 people she considered to have made her life miserable. Hannah recollects her experiences with each of the subjects as she tells them how they drove her into committing suicide.   5. The Good Fight From the creators of The Good Wife comes this legal drama revolving around Diane Lockhart (instead of Alicia Florrick). When Diane is kicked out of her firm and loses her life’s savings in a Ponzi scheme, she is forced to go back to work to make ends meet. She joins a predominantly black firm, where she fights to get recognition and power.   4. The Sinner This mysterious psychological thriller stars Jessica Biel as Cora Tanneti, a woman who commits violent crimes without realising it. Detective Harry Ambrose helps Cora to uncover what really happened in her past to make her have these fits of psychotic rage.   3. The Handmaid’s Tale This horrifying yet remarkable dystopian fictional show is one of the best dramas we have ever seen on TV. It narrates the story of a gruesome future where fertile women are forced to be handmaid’s to elite men to ensure the survival of the human race.    2. Big Little Lies This is one of those shows packed with an A-list cast that is a must-see. The show is so riveting that, although originally created as a limited series, has been renewed for a second season.   1. Young Sheldon This show tells the story of Sheldon Cooper (The Big Bang Theory) as a nine-year-old genius boy growing up in East Texas. The show is funny, loveable and a must-see for all The Big Bang Theory fans.