Poor patients
seeking treatment in public health facilities in the city have been
subjected to pain and suffering after the hospitals ran out of
medicines and other essential medical supplies.
 The facilities have
not received any medical supplies for close to a year. This is after the
supplier – the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority - withdrew services over
accumulated Sh285 million debt.
 Health executive
Hitan Majevda, who is three weeks old in office, said the debt has
accumulated since 2014. “It is true there
is no medicine in our facilities. There is nothing to hide. I have
been meeting Kemsa officials over this issue since I came,” he
said.
 “But it beats
logic really, if someone owes you such amount of money, you can't be
willing to make another supply.”  Dilapidated
structures, poor management, shortage of medical staff and lack of
drugs have dogged the city health facilities, despite more than half
of residents depending on them for medication.
 About three million
people in the city – mostly slums dwellers – are not under any form of
medical cover and pay for their medication out-of-pocket. They rely
on public health facilities for treatment.
 Majevda said, however, he was negotiating with Kemsa to resume supplies with an
assurance the county will clear part of the debt to alleviate
suffering.
 The former regime
under Governor Evans Kidero had last year made a commitment to pay
Kemsa Sh10 million every week, until the bill was cleared, but the new executive said the agreement was not honoured.
 “It seems there
was no priority here. Things used to be done in any order without
preference. It is a deep problem,” Majevda told the Star in
his office on Tuesday.
 The executive,
however, suspected there has been pilferage of the medicines in some
of the facilities going by the huge orders the county made before.
 “You find that the
orders the county used to make were huge and this clearly
can lead to pilferage. You cannot order drugs to last six months or
one year. That way you will be creating room for pilferage,” he
said.
 Last year, Health CS
Cleopa Mailu said his ministry would support City Hall to improve
its facilitates to ease congestion at Kenyatta National Hospital.
 Residents were shunning the county-run facilitates for the referral
hospital.
 During his campaigns, Governor Mike Sonko promised to restock all the city public
facilities with medicines in 100 days.