Meru Senator Mithika Linturi suffered a major setback yesterday after the High Court declined to compel the University of Nairobi to include his name in Friday’s graduating list. In his ruling, Justice George Odunga said the lawmaker had not convinced the court why his name should be included and what irreparable loss he will suffer if he does not graduate. He further said Linturi will not suffer prejudice if he does not graduate. Related content : Mithika Linturi takes UoN to court after law degree revoked The judge said issuing temporary orders at this stage will also affect all the cases that have been filed in different courts. “What would happen if this case does not succeed after I had allowed the petitioner to go ahead and graduate?” judge Odunga asked. Wanted decision overturned In the case, Linturi moved to court seeking to overturn a decision by the University of Nairobi that deregistered him as a law student for allegedly presenting fake papers to get admission. The senator had further asked the court to quash the decision dated November 30 by the university to deregister and discontinue his studies. He wanted the university compelled to reinstate his name in the graduation list this Friday. According to Linturi, his tribulations started way back during the campaign period when his political opponents Mugambi Imanyara and former Meru Governor Peter Munya allegedly swore that they would do anything to ensure his name was not in the ballot box at the August 8 General Election. Eacc investigated “The EACC had conclusively investigated the allegations that Linturi self-declaration forms for the 2013 election filed with the IEBC were falsified,” the court papers read. Linturi says he was admitted at the University of Nairobi on January 3, 2014, and was supposed to graduate on the 22nd of this month with a Law degree. However, on November 30, just 21 days to his confirmed graduation, he said he saw on news that the university had deregistered him for allegedly having a fake degree from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in India. Linturi says the UoN failed to inform him in writing that it was investigating his degree with the aim of deregistering him. Also read : UoN revokes Senator Mithika Linturi's law degree He claims the actions of the UoN tells of nothing but a public body that has allowed itself to be used illegally by the EACC in an “utter unapologetic show of abuse of power to harass, intimidate and violate” his right to education. Last month, the university senate resolved to deregister him, following investigations that revealed the degree from a university in India was forged. Linturi was among 106 leaders whom the EACC flagged as having integrity issues in a list it presented to the IEBC in June. Click here for the latest political news 