Championship-winning Ugandan coach Paul Nkata has left Bandari after an unsuccessful season-long stint. Nkata, who joined the Mombasa-based club at the beginning of this season from Tusker, said on the KPL official portal that he has heeded to the management’s request that he steps aside to allow for a different hand at the helm. “It is true that I have left the club. I had a meeting with the club management and they asked me to step down. I have no hard feelings; I know I will get another club,” he said. Nkata was announced coach of the dockers early this year after he abruptly left Tusker after guiding them to their 11th league trophy as well as the GOtv Shield title. The coastal side was his fourth Kenyan team to handle, following his brief stints at Muhoroni Youth and Nairobi City Stars. At Bandari, he failed to replicate the good run he had with the brewers and only managed to win 12 while drawing seven and losing 15 out of 34 games. Bandari, who have never hidden their title ambitions, eventually finished in 10th position with 43 points. Nkata is optimistic of getting a club in the near future although he could not confirm reports that he is heading back to his native home to coach Ugandan Premier League side, Vipers. “I am not worried. Teams that know my capabilities will come for me. But at the moment I am yet to make any concrete decisions. I could be here in Kenya next season or not, depending on how things go. It is too early to tell,” he said. Nkata has handled Ugandan side, SC Villa and Rwandan military outfit, APR. He blamed his dismal performance at Bandari due to lack of depth in the squad. “I came in late when players had already been signed. When I came in, I realised that some had been recruited with long term injuries while some were just not the right quality. That made it very difficult for me to succeed especially because I was unable to make as many changes to the squad in the mid season transfer window,” he said. Nkata’s assistant Ken Odhiambo has since taken over the reins at the club albeit on temporary basis, and is overseeing a five-day trial exercise at the Mbaraki Sports grounds that starts on December 1, where new players will be picked by the club. 
 