A nation that can’t feed its people is dead, regardless of how developed it is in terms of infrastructure, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has said. She said on Sunday that the national and county governments have focussed on infrastructure and forgotten about farming — the mainstay of the majority of Kenyans. Ngilu said that in 2013, when she was in Jubilee, she told President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure Kenya had adequate food for its people. “I’ve realised from his second inauguration that he has now come up with a four-point agenda and the first on the list is food security. It means I think ahead of other people,” she said. The county boss said when leaders fail to fix basic problems afflicting their people, there is no way the country can move forward. It is dead and people can say anything about it, she said, as she launched the Kitui Forward Sasa — a clarion call to action, “no business as usual”. “That’s why in Kenya, anybody can say anything and talk how they want because the government has not been able to feeds its people,” Ngilu said. “I can say that without any fear of contradiction. We must attend to the basics first.” She spoke during a retreat for Kitui MCAs at Flamingo Hotel in Mombasa. Ngilu said that at Independence, former President Jomo Kenyatta promised to fight ill health, poverty and improve education, but not much has been achieved since. “Unfortunately, 54 years later, Kenya is still grappling with these issues,” she said. She told the MCAs that Kitui is no exception and they must not allow slip-ups in their quest to improve lives. Kitui county leaders must work together to tackle poverty, disease and ignorance for the benefit of all residents, Ngilu said. “I want to ask you [MCAs] to support me. Let’s come up with ways on how we are going to use our resources and be able to rebrand Kitui,” she said. Thousands of acres in the county have not been put to good use, yet they have the potential to transform lives if properly exploited, Ngilu said. “Unless we agree to have a paradigm shift and work together, we’ll not develop Kitui,” she said. Kitui assembly majority leader Peter Kilonzo on Sunday said the MCAs resolved to fully cooperate with the Ngilu administration to fast-track development. “We had a very successful meeting with the governor and her team. We’ve resolved a few issues of concern to pave the way for a smooth working relationship,” he said.  “We were elated when she agreed to retain the ward-level integrated development programmes.” They were unanimous that bickering would frustrate their collective agenda to foster development and end poverty and other socioeconomic ills. The assembly and the executive will have quarterly meetings to take stock of their achievements.