Lamu Old Town is this year expected to host about 20,000 Muslim pilgrims from around the world for the Maulid Festival. The festival will run between today and Friday. Organising secretary Idarus Muhsin yesterday said visitors from around the world have been flocking to the town. He said many Muslims from Faza, Kizingitini, Ndau, Tchundwa, Matondoni, Kipungani and Kiwayu in Lamu have arrived in Old Town, a Unesco world heritage site. Visitors are also expected from Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and other countries including Tanzania, Yemen, Omani, the Comoro Islands, the United Arab Emirates, Middle East and the UK. Maulid Festival coordinator Mohamed Khitamy of the Riyadha Mosque said the festival is the 130th one since its introduction in Lamu. “We shall be hosting international and local pilgrims and we are glad. All are welcome,” he said. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo has assured visitors of adequate security. Security has been beefed up and all vehicles entering and leaving Lamu during the festival will undergo thorough police checks. “We have added more officers on our roads and at sea to ensure we don’t have any reason to worry,” Kitiyo said. He urged residents and visitors to be vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the police immediately. The Maulid festival is marked annually by a section of Muslims in remembrance of the birth of Prophet Mohamed in the holy city of Mecca in 570AD. The festival is marked every third month of the Islamic calendar. The Lamu Maulid Festival is one of a kind. Activities will include competitions such as the famous donkey race, Jahazi and Kasa races, dhow races and poetry. Lamu is among the oldest towns on the East African Coast and boasts being among the first urban centres in the region to take up Islam. It has some of the oldest mosques and centres of Islamic learning in the world.  According to Wikipedia, the history of Maulid goes back to the early days of Islam when some of the successors of the companions of the prophet began to hold sessions in which poetry and songs composed to honour the dignity and the righteous example of the messenger of Allah were recited and sung to overflowing crowds in the major cities of Islamic civilisation. Most denominations of Islam approve of the commemoration of Mohamed’s birthday. However, some denominations, including Wahhabism, disapprove and consider it an unnecessary religious innovation.          