Kenyans were too caught up celebrating the top KCPE exam candidates to appreciate the fundamental change that has taken place in the formal education sector in just two years. The number of children who got fewer than 100 marks out 500 was 2,360 down from 6,747 last year. This marked improvement was against the backdrop of strict administration of exams, which ensured zero prior access to exam papers and stopped premature exposure to exams a few minutes to exams. The full implications of the impact of the stringent management of national examinations were revealed by Knec chairman Prof George Magoha, who observed just before the CS Fred Matiang’i announced the results, “I walked into the classrooms while the candidates were sitting for KCPE exams and saw serious writing. Most of the candidates couldn’t even notice me. These made me happy. A sign of brains at work.” Implicit in all this is that our children are learning; that they are being exposed to the prescribed body of knowledge and skills that lie at the core of a curriculum. Exam malpractice means that society is more concerned with labels and grades and less with knowledge and skills. To them, what the grades represent is immaterial. This attitude is lopsided. The real purpose of education is to nurture the innate abilities of learners to effectively interact with and internalise the knowledge, values and skills society has found useful to cope with changes in the environment. The function of a national exam is to assess educational achievement. It is a kind of response or feedback to the stimuli — to the educational experiences that the learners have had. Quality exposure to the curriculum, effective teaching and learning invariably elicit good feedback in terms of the relative quality of grades for those parts of the curriculum that are examinable or quantifiable.  Zero tolerance to exam cheating means that schools focus on the real substance of education, which is the curriculum. Without prior access to exams, the schools now focus on taking the children through the curriculum: The body of knowledge and associated skills and thinking. Effective management and delivery of the prescribed curriculum is a worldwide policy problem and concern. In her first speech upon assuming the office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted), early in the year, Amanda Spielman said, “I firmly believe that the substance of what students are learning in education matters just as much, if not more than, how good a grade they get in any exam or assessment.” Schools are special institutions. In his seminal essay ‘What are schools for?’ Prof Michael Young, who Spielman has continually referred to in her speeches, states, “Enable young people to acquire the knowledge that, for most of them, cannot be acquired at home or in the community.” The fundamental change that has occurred in education is that children are now being exposed to prescribed learning experiences and a body of knowledge that ultimately defines safety, well-being and happiness at individual level and for the society. The change has come about courtesy of collaboration between the ministries of Education, Interior, as well as ICT.  This is something to celebrate and build on going forward.