Western envoys and Kenyan religious leaders on Friday held talks with NASA leaders to push for dialogue amid fears of the anticipated Raila Odinga swearing-in on Tuesday. The diplomats included US ambassador Robert Godec, German Ambassador Jutta Frasch, and British High Commissioner Nic Hailey. They emphasised the commitment of the international community to help Kenya resolve outstanding issues raised by the opposition. Read: 'Constitution my foot': Raila asks US to stop interfering with Kenya's affairs According to the statement sent to the media by opposition chief Raila Odinga’s spokesman Dennis Onyango, the opposition leader, alongside co-principal Musalia Mudavadi, expressed their commitment. They said they are open to dialogue on specific areas of security, the Judiciary, devolution and governance. “The discussions centred on the need for the government, opposition, and all Kenyans to engage in an open and transparent national conversation to address underlying issues that threaten unity following the recent elections,” Onyango said. The leaders discussed the need to strengthen key institutions like the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the Judiciary and address the feelings of marginalisation by some communities. The meeting had representatives from the business community. They reviewed NASA activities planned for Tuesday next week and agreed on the need to act according to the Constitution. On November 28, Raila told his supporters he will be sworn in through the People’s Assembly and take over power. On Thursday, Raila said he does not recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. “We maintain that the will of the people is paramount. #Resist,” the NASA leader tweeted regarding the meeting that took place at Capitol Hill. Godec said Kenya must strive to uphold the Constitution. “We urge the government, opposition and all Kenyans to engage in an open, transparent national conversation.” More on this: What is treason? The case of defiant NASA chief Raila Odinga   Click here for latest political news  