Kenya will never have two Presidents, retired Mombasa ACK Bishop Julius Kalu has told Opposition Raila Odinga. Kalu asked Raila to go for dialogue and President Uhuru Kenyatta to reach out to the NASA chief to end the impasse and avert looming chaos. "If these leaders feud, citizens will suffer the worst part of political machinations," he said at Mombasa Memorial Cathedral on Sunday. "We don't want to witness bloodshed, people getting hurt and police turning trigger-happy. It will be sad." Raila says 215 people have died in election protests since the original vote on August 8. He has "postponed" his inauguration that was to take place in Hassan Joho's county to an unspecified date, disappointing thousands of his ardent supporters.  But he also pleased those opposed to the oath-taking, especially the presidency. Read: Sorry, Raila swearing-in ‘postponed’ Related: Elections over, IEBC focused on 'other things' - Consolata Nkatha Raila's chief campaigner Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) said a fresh date will be set for the swearing-in so supporters should "maintain civic and economic disobedience". "It's either democracy or secession," he said. Kalu said: "The country is divided along political lines. We need peace, and for it to prevail, our leaders must speak with one voice on how things should be run." He added the church now has the key role of praying for peace as danger seems inevitable. Kalu noted Kenya is respected worldwide and known for tranquility, traits which should not be eroded by political uncertainties. "We would like to see a good relationship between our leaders so the country is ruled peacefully." It has been said that Uhuru will call Raila but he has been categorical about not engaging in dialogue. The US has urged dialogue and Raila was under pressure to call off the plans, which many believed he had been coaxed into by his more radical supporters. More on this: I'm done talking about politics, wait for Ruto in 2022, Uhuru tells Raila Also read: Call Raila for talks, Kenyans want to move on, Savula tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political stories