A gnat flew over the meadow with much buzzing for so small a creature and settled on the tip of one of the horns of a bull. After he had rested a short time, he made ready to fly away. But before he left he begged the Bull’s pardon for having used his horn for a resting place. “You must be very glad to have me go now,” he said. “It’s all the same to me,” replied the bull. “I did not even know you were there.” What does this have to do with this piece you’re reading today? The tiny creature, the gnat, felt so important and thought that being on the bull’s horn was such a great deal. But the bull, definitely did not feel the gnat’s weight despite accommodating it for the time it was there. Over the last four years, Kenyans have been treated to political theatrics that have sort to divert our focus from more important issues. The opposition has made a lot of noise in an attempt to show how important it was and distract the government. Issues like Okoa Kenya were meant to just disrupt the government with the economy suffering severally due to violent demonstrations. We also saw multiple allegations of unproven scandals that were meant to scare away investors. But like the bull, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration has continued to stay focused on the transformation agenda. Kenyans have also stayed focused and continued to support the government in its efforts to improve the lives of each and every one of us. Over the last four years, the opposition has behaved like the gnat that rested on the bull’s horn with an unproven sense of entitlement. The opposition has claimed to be very important but has not had any positive impact in the country other than disruption. What we have seen is an opposition that is only aimed at ensuring that its jobless leaders ascend to power by all means even if property is destroyed and people die. And opposition that could not play its minority role in Parliament well enough to influence government policy. Kenya has experienced a rudderless and clueless opposition and it is time those on the minority side decide that they were going to play their role to positively impact the lives of Kenyans. Kenyans are tired of petty political theatrics and would want to see their leaders focus on more important issues. Related: Raila oath plan still on, judge and bible picked - NASA Also read: Father of the nation? Yash Ghai asks Raila to refrain from swearing in Already, we know that there were two issues by the opposition that may occupy our space in 2018 – the purported swearing in of Raila Odinga and the claim of secession of some regions of the country. The two issues are not only misguided but are now being treated as a joke by Kenyans and even the international community. This is because they are not aimed at helping uplift the lives of Kenyans but to massage the egos of some opposition leaders. Kenyans stopped taking the opposition serious when it MPs claimed to boycott parliament but allowed themselves to take salaries since August. Now, all of them have joined Parliamentary committees because they know that they will earn allowances from them. The opposition should stop focusing on impractical issues such as secession and illegal swearing-in’s and instead look at how to play a more effective watchdog role. Trying to distract Kenyans and the government will only help you create more enemies, as you will be branded an enemy of progress. The opposition must think of itself as an alternative government and therefore should play an important role of influencing policy. Opposition MPs should not just make noise but should use their minority to challenge the government side into progressive thinking. Kenya needs an opposition that will have a say in ensuring that Kenyans get improved healthcare, better roads, clean water, ready markets and highest standards of education. This is because all Kenyans have a common aspiration of making their lives better and petty politics will not do this in 2018 and beyond. The writer is a political and communications consultant. Click here for the latest political stories