Week two of DrinkThemba en the party don’t stop with nine days to Christ’s Birthday… The celebrations started two weeks ago, en still going strong…  This year’s Jamuhuri Day will be the most-talked-about in history, after the President decided to be very generous with his Commendations to civilians… President Uhuru beat the record of the most commendations handed out by Kenyan presidents… I doubt even his father Jomo gave out so many commendations after Kenya got its Independence... The commendations came in fast and furious. #TheRaverend believes everyone knows somebody who got the presidential commendation!!! The commendations were like free comps at a big concert…#TheRaverend is still waiting for his commendation that I suspect was edited out from the list by some haters from State House!!!  So as Kenyans try to get to terms with the President’s generosity of dishing commendations like Father Christmas…We turn our attention to the rising number of road accidents happening all over the country… NTSA normally would not get airtime on #TheRaverend’s column, but Yo! This shit is getting out of control #SkrrrrrrrPoooomPooom 2 plus 2 is 4 minus one is three accidents too many… Somebody needs to do their job because Kenyans can’t be trusted on the major highways, especially in this festive season…Talking of fhe festive season, all the summer/winter bunnies are back from the various diaspora codes… En when this Kenyans land from foreign land, they come with some serious hunger en thirst to party and drink… It’s like when in the Diaspora, all they do is work en never get time to go out en turn up or socialise… What they forget is that the locals, aka us guys, have work and bills to pay, so we have a hustle and routine to follow; it can’t be disrupted because some Tom or Tammy whom you last saw when Kibaki was president is back in the city…  Yeah, I know December is one big weekend, but work comes first, so sometimes when we ignore your calls to go out, just understand and don’t take it as an insult or assume we are broke!!! You want to party all week long, find your other Diasporians or that friend who is jobless and is always ready for a plan… ION, I need to educate my Diasporians en some backward Kenyans of something called “bottle hoes”. They are worse than slay queens as a matter of fact!!! The difference between a slay queen and bottle hoe is very clear… A bootle hoe is ok, a mission, she is employed by the club/pubs/lounges…  Their job is to sell as much alkohor as possible in a night… So when you rock into a club and find a hot chick or chicks coming to your table partying with you, trust me they have targets.  Meaning, they will stay and entertain your sorry arse as long as you keep popping the booties! The moment your cash runs low and the bottles stop coming, you will not see them again… They become invisible like the Ninja and disappear to the next mark…  As for the slay queens, these are the social media chicks. They never have an agenda and all they care about is taking pictures and going to places, en if you’re lucky, you can chipo her very quick…  They don’t work for the clubs and never have a plan. They just look good and look for someone to show them a good time. So pick your girls wisely this festive season as you go out en enjoy the sights and sounds of Kenya!!!  Update: Where the parties at? All major clubs in the city have some sort of dope party happening, so finding a place to party is not rocket science. The major events like the Diani Beach Festival in Ukunda is entering its second week after an amazing premiere weekend with Sauti Sol en the world’s sexiest DJ from Hong Kong among the headline acts having already performed…  #TheRaverend will be in Eldoret for the weekend, so if you’re in Eldoret, you can catch me at your top clubs if you can… So as we keep up with the appearance this festive season, let’s not drink and drive, unless what you’re drinking as you drive is only water for dehydration, because they say water is life. Be safe as you make your moves on the Kenyan highways!!!