How has Cytonn managed to stay above macro-economic difficulties that have emerged this year? The operating environment has been somewhat tough but Cytonn has managed to stay above these difficulties by anticipating the challenges and pricing in the risk well in advance, while also taking advantage of opportunities that arose. What are some of these opportunities? Our investments team took advantage of the anticipated decline in performance of the banking sector stocks following the enactment of the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2015 in September 2016 and bought up select fundamentally good stocks from the market at low prices. As banks hurried to cut costs anticipating declines in interest income, by carrying out staff lay-offs, we went into the market to pick up the best talent that joined our high net-worth distribution network, in order to meet our fund collection and real estate project sales targets for the year. What has the business environment been like for Cytonn in 2017? The ups and downs throughout the year. As mentioned above, the business environment in 2017 has been quite challenging and as a firm, we have had our ups and downs: Ups: In private equity, we managed to secure a significant deal in January, which is the 25 per cent stake acquisition in a leading real estate development firm, Superior Homes Kenya Ltd. SHK is the developer of the 163-acre Greenpark masterplan in Athi River on Mombasa Road, having put up over 400 homes and shall be our partner for satellite town master-planned developments. We expanded our real estate portfolio by launching RiverRun Estates, a 100-Acre development in Ruiru and our Sh20 billion Kilimani-based iconic mixed-use development project, “Cytonn Towers”. Within the year, we also broke ground on the Ridge in Ridgeways and Taraji Heights in Ruaka. Most recently, we handed over the contemporary villas in Amara Ridge, Karen. To better improve our corporate governance structures and to continue strengthening investor confidence in the firm, we subjected ourselves to a Global Credit Rating, where we received an initial long-term rating of BB (KE), with a stable outlook. Downs: The biggest challenge that we faced within the year was the slowdown in the market due to the election period, with most investors remaining cautious. We however believe that with the political matters having been put to rest, we will have a better 2018. We received quite a number of organised social media and blogger attacks. Negative news is a challenge we have faced in the firm since inception, with the first year beginning with legal attacks, followed by professional body complaints in the second, and regulatory complaints in the third – we were able to address all these challenges. As we enter our fourth year, we now face another challenge to our growth. As a counter-measure, we have launched an initiative called ‘Open to Talk’ session where both staff and clients can engage us and get the right information. This is done by continually meeting our staff and clients, and in addition, we have provided an online platform where we address each claim in an open and transparent manner.  What next for Cytonn? What should we expect in 2018 in terms of company growth? We have a number of initiatives that we are pursuing in 2018, most of which we have embarked on. First, we are looking to list by introduction on the Growth Enterprise Market Segment of the NSE. This is aimed at boosting investor confidence as well as opening up opportunities for capital-raising in future. Once we list in Kenya, we also aim to list on a global exchange; at the moment, we are analyzing our options. We are looking to expand into the greater Sub-Saharan African region, with our initial focus set on Ghana and Uganda, both in the real estate and financial services sectors. Being an organisation that is based on research, we have conducted extensive research on the Sub-Saharan African region, and have gone ahead to release reports on this, such as the Kampala Real Estate Investment Opportunity Report which we released in September. We will also be expanding our private equity investments by diversifying our investments. In the start of 2017, we acquired a stake in real estate developer Superior Homes Kenya, and we intend to pursue such other ventures, particularly in education (through Cytonn Education Services, our affiliate for making investments into the education sector), hospitality and technology. Overall, we continue growing the team and the business, starting from a team of 150 at the close of 2016 and now at over 400 people, with some having gone through our Cytonn Young Leaders’ Program. We expect to continue with this trend in 2018. How has the firm managed to uphold vibrancy throughout the year? 2017 was marked by a lot of eventualities that distracted the market as a whole. However, we managed to take advantage of this and maintain our focus throughout the year, by constantly seeking out opportunities in the market. We also have a team of dedicated professionals who are committed to attaining Cytonn’s objectives, and wake up every day with a mission of exceeding our clients’ expectations. Our vibrancy can also be attributed to the fact that we are a relatively young firm, with a passion for growth. We also attribute this to our loyal clients who have remained with us throughout the year, even through the uncertainty in the electioneering period. What advice would you give young firms such as yours looking to emerge as champions in their varying sectors? Identify your one differentiator – before going to the market, you have to know what sets you apart from others who are doing what you do, and focus on improving this. Keep your clients’ first – Your priority in your business is the client. Always make sure your clients are happy. That way, they will remain loyal to you and will even refer you to others. Base all your decisions on research – Make sure that your business strategies are guided by the proper research, and all the decisions are backed by substantial data.