The Government will next year crack its whip on Universities that are currently operating under Letters of Interim Authority Among institutions targeted, will be those operating on a letter of interim authority beyond the statutory period. The letter of interim authority is offered to institutions that are accredited to offer degree courses despite but have not met the required standards to be fully-fledged universities. The letter of interim authority expires after four years after which the university is expected to have met standards to allow it be fully-fledged university. Among the standards set include the institution to acquire at least 50 acres of land, have permanent structures and establish faculties. The CS further said private universities fraudulently giving degrees to politician will de-registered. Speaking at during 31st AMREF Health Africa Graduation in Nairobi on Monday, Matiang’i said the government was planning a major shake-up in the higher education following a crackdown to be conducted in private universities from next year. Matiang’i said he had also called for investigations in specific universities in order to establish their viability and potential to support the objects of university education in Kenya. “I guarantee you that you will soon be witnessing the revocation of accreditation status and rationalization of the existence of some of these universities,” Dr. Matiang’i noted. The crackdown will target institutions operating contrary to the statutory provisions guiding the higher education sector. “We are going to take a serious look into this issue because you cannot hold an interim letter for 8 years and over and you do not have any substantive explanation as to why you are not able to move to a fully pledged university,” Matiang’i said. Struggling universities The Cabinet Secretary said he had encountered several private universities that have been struggling to survive as a result of governance weaknesses and mismanagement of resources, including financial and human resources. “While this unfortunate state of affairs was one to reckon with in the public universities, it is disheartening to observe that the private universities have equally joined the wagon,” Dr. Matiang’i noted. He said students should be allowed to review the performance of lecturers noting that the feedback from students could be the basis of extending or terminating the tenure of lecturers. He said education systems in some countries had incorporated this in their governance system and greatly improved the quality of higher education in their countries. The CS said this will address the problem of missing marks, and situations where students were not taught by some lecturers. Dr. Matiang’i expressed concern that financing of Universities based on the programmes and student body under the Differentiated Unit Cost(DUC) would help to maintain quality of education institutions offer to students. The CS later issued a Letter of Interim Authority to the Amref International University (AMIU) as the successor to the Amref International Training Center (AITC). “As you join the other 73 universities in the provision of university education in Kenya, I call on you to safeguard quality,” Dr. Matiang’i said.      