The brutal killing of NASA
protesters by the police is said to have seriously annoyed Opposition Chief Raila Odinga. Those in the know say
that the killings, especially as he returned from the US on November 17, have
hardened his resolve to give sleepless nights to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee administration. During a fundraising for
the victims at a Nairobi hotel, Raila shed tears. He painfully asked why
Jubilee is creating orphans. An angry Raila protested why he has not been
arrested, detained or shot dead if he is the problem. === A Kenya Defence Forces
insider was heard laughing off claims that the military is divided along
political lines after the protracted political duel. There have been rumours
that a former Chief of Defence Forces had proposed bringing in the military to
preach cohesion. But the KDF insider confidently said, “If you mention
cohesion, hapo hakuna jeshi. In the
military, it’s the oath you took, period!” According to the man, if you are not
satisfied, you resign. He claimed that the possibilities of a mutiny were
remote, as most commanders are regime-friendly. Opposition Chief Raila Odinga has announced that he will
be sworn in on December 12 and take over State House immediately. His swearing-in,
he said, will be reminiscent of that of Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnagangwa – who toook over after a coup. === An outspoken Jubilee
die-heard from Eastern Kenya is a bitter man. Reason? Word has it that the
comical politician, who campaigned very hard for President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection in the region, is angry because Jubilee
has not shown any sign of rewarding him with any appointive post. It is said
the politician’s hopes that Jubilee would back his interest in an EALA position
have disappeared after his name featured nowhere in Uhuru’s party's shortlist.
It is said the former one-term MP, who has unsuccessfully fought to be
reelected, is threatening to bolt out of Jubilee, unless its leadership assures
him of a post like it has promised Cabinet and parastatal positions to many
polls losers allied to Uhuru. === What, exactly, is happening at
Vigilance House? Maybe it’s time for Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to address the
speculation. Officers are concerned about a memo from Vigilance House that
requires them to give their home county and division particulars in the latest
nominal roll. There are fears within police ranks that the details will have a
bearing on a major transfer to be executed soon. There is also a likelihood, a
little bird whispers to Corridors,  the placements will take a tribal
angle rather than in normal cases, where merit counts. Click here for the latest political stories