A Gatanga politician has called for a national audit of the academic qualifications of all leaders elected on August 8. Former MP Kimani Njuguna, popularly known as Roho Safi, claimed 10 per cent of the politicians used fake papers to get into office. Njuguna spoke on Tuesday while celebrating the PhD in law that he obtained from University of Nairobi last Friday. He became the 10th student to acquire it since the School of Law was established 47 years ago. The politician said that in his research on ‘Why Kenya's laws don’t seem to work’, he concluded the country is in dire need of a strict system that will ensure laws are followed. Njuguna said the national values and culture system must be entrenched for Kenya to realise tangible economic, social and political stability and sanity. "If the country had a strong system of values and culture,  like the one exercised by religious organisations, such elements would not be glorified and elected into office. They would be confined to jail and condemned, never to assume public office," he said at Thika Sports Club. "Although Kenya has one of the most comprehensive constitutions, most Kenyans do not adhere to it. As a result, those involved in scandals are turned into celebrities and eventually assuming public office at the expense of the people." Related: Linturi loses bid to graduate with UoN Law degree The politician said the judiciary is independent but that more can be done and dismissed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission Commission as a "toothless dog". He added: "We want a system that will instill discipline in children and old men. This is why in my thesis, I am rooting for the establishment of this system to help our country realise economic, social and political stability that will take us to the next level. "A new constitution without such a system would be in vain." The former MP further noted that laws such as the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act are "superb" yet have been misused and "turned into conduits for stealing public funds and resources". He asked Kenyans to educate themselves and their children as "education is wealth that nobody can taken from the beholder". "Not even my wife or child can take away my education." School of Law dean Kiarie Mwaura said Njuguna's study was through and that it was supervised by more than 10 people locally and abroad. This was Njuguna's sixth degree. He also has a Bachelor's degrees in land economics and law, Master's degrees in law and business administration and a PhD in entrepreneurship. Among those who attended the party were former MPs Kinyua Weru (Mathira) and John Njoroge Chege (Kasarani), professor Githu Muigai, Nancy Barasa and Moni Wekesa Others were Njununa’s mother Esther Wanjiru, his wife Nancy Wambui and his children Henry Njuguna, Walter Kamau and Esther Wanjiru. Click here for the latest political stories