The challenge is that we have not been able to rationally look at the wages across the board in the public sector. We have not been able to rationalise the wages. And therefore the kind of pay packages we look at, most of the time, are not realistic. If we were to look at the wage of a Member of Parliament, and then look at the expectations from the electorate, they are completely unrealistic. It is not possible to even say that they could operate within the bracket the Salaries and Remuneration Commission has been giving them. It is also not even possible to think they can operate within the bracket that they are giving themselves. Why? Because we have never, as a country, understood, the role of an MP. We think that an MP is an automated teller machine because we (Kenyans) are all making all kinds of demands to the legislators. We want money for hospitals, school fees, weddings, relatives who have become pregnant and handouts, among other items, in the long list. I say this because I have friends who are MPs and I don’t know how they meet all these demands. As a society, we have to ask ourselves a few honest questions. When we ask ourselves those questions and we have understood that the role of MPs is legislation, oversight of the national government and the representation of the people, we will stop making certain demands. Then it’s going to be rational for us to restrict ourselves to Serem’s kind of salary structures and bracket. Even professionals behave the same way and want out of pocket cash from MPs after events. You go to the constituency and when people see a Member of Parliament, they expect to be given some money. The question is, where does this money come from? I know some MPs find it difficult to go to their homes – and play hide-and-seek with their constituents. They arrive home very late and leave early before the electorate walks in with a catalogue of the things they want to be funded. The MPs also need cars to access their constituencies so that they can move from one end to the other. The same society that calls you Mheshimiwa looks at the shoes, shirt, watch, trousers and everything else you wear. And if they don’t meet good standards they will exclaim, “Huyu ni Mheshimiwa gani!” The writer is a political expert      