The High Court has granted Kenya Revenue Authority seven days to respond to a case seeking to have the KRA board stopped from extending Commissioner General John Njiraini’s tenure. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Justice Nelson Abuodha directed that the responses be filed before December 13 for the inter-party hearing. Abuodha added that the matter should be heard and determined before December 20 when Njiraini is supposed to retire. In the petition filed by human rights activist Okiya Omtatah, he wants the court to retire Njiraini immediately and start recruiting and appointing a new Commissioner General for the KRA in strict compliance with the law. He alleges that the intended extension of the tenure is discriminatory against all those public officials who have exited the public service upon attaining 60 years of age. Omtatah further argued that from the time Njiraini turned 58 years of age, the board, together with the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, were under obligation of the law to start identifying his possible successors to enable a smooth exit from the service when he attains the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. Omtatah says Njiraini, having been born on December 20, 1957, ought to have vacated office and proceeded on the mandatory six-months terminal leave pending retirement. He adds that Njiraini will attain the mandatory retirement age in the public service of 60 years on December 19. Omtatah has faulted the KRA board of directors and Rotich for retaining Njiraini in the public service of the Kenya Revenue Authority contrary to government policy to send exiting CEOs on six-months terminal leave. “I invite the honourable court to intervene and determine the constitutional and legal validity of the impugned extension of service for the interested party,” Omtatah says. He further argues that keeping the KRA boss in employment beyond the mandatory retirement age of 60 years for public servants will be illegal and unconstitutional and, therefore, invalid, null and void.