Twenty passengers yesterday escaped death narrowly in Homa Bay town when the bus they were travelling in was set ablaze by boda boda operators. They accused the driver of hitting their colleague and his passenger. The incident happened on the Homa Bay-Rongo road. Witnesses told journalists the boda boda rider was speeding and rammed into the open boot of the bus, which had stopped on the road to allow a passenger to pick his luggage. Both the rider and his passenger were injured. “The motorcycle hit the boot of the bus and the rider and passenger fell off the motorbike. There was no indication the bus would stop and open the boot on the road,” a witness said. The witness said other boda boda operators got angry and set the bus on fire. “They first deflated the tyres of the bus then one of them drained petrol from the motorcycle operators’ engines to start the fire,” another witness said. The bus passengers fled - some jumped out of the windows. “The riders and bus operator engaged in a verbal exchange before the bus was set on fire,” the witness added. Homa Bay OCPD Esau Ochorokodi confirmed the incident and said the boda boda rider and his passenger suffered injuries. Some bus passengers suffered injuries as they jumped out of the bus and were taken to the Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. “We have began investigating the nitty-gritty details of the incident,” Ochorokodi said. He said the bus had just arrived in Homa Bay town when the incident occurred. The police boss said officers are searching for the culprits, who fled the scene. “Some passengers on the bus lost their property in the fire,” he said. Boda boda riders have been accused for the rising number of pregnancies among schoolgoing girls. Between July 2016 and June 2017, 378,397 adolescent girls aged 10-19 were pregnant in Kenya. This is a huge figure for schoolgirl pregnancies anywhere, even in much larger populations such as the US. Teenage pregnancies are defined as pregnancy before the age of 20 years. At the Coast, boda boda operators have been accused of taking advantage of poverty-stricken schoolgirls to sexually exploit them. Politicians said boda boda riders lure the underage girls into having sex with them by giving them free rides or as little as Sh50. This results in unwanted pregnancies.