City Hall is cracking down on unapproved buildings that are going up. On Thursday, Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe visited Gigiri after the Gigiri Residents Association complained illegal construction was going on. He reported his visit on Twitter. Igathe said construction started without following city by-laws. "I'm here today to stop constructions of this specific building, [the city] having issued specific laws that have been violated by this construction. This shows the kind of impunity we have and we are issuing stop orders for illegally approved buildings in Gigiri today," Igathe tweeted. Among the illegal buildings is multi-story hotel overlooking UN headquarters and the American Embassy. "Politically speaking, you cannot put up a building of this nature next to an installation such as the American Embassy and the United Nations. This is the impunity we continue to see across the city," Igathe said. He was accompanied by the acting chief officer for Urban Planning Justus Kathenge in the spot-check of construction sites in Gigiri. "So I am leaving here today, having issued stop instructions and issuing specific laws that have been violated. I expect all construction in this building to stop," Igathe said. He later tweeted the crackdown will be extended to other areas, especially Eastlands. A number of buildings have collapsed in Eastlands due to poor and unauthorised construction. He said the city needs to increase construction "but we cannot have buildings that do not comply to building codes and statutory inspections." In January last year, City Hall said more than illegal 50,000 buildings should be demolished because owners and builders failed to follow procedures and ensure safe construction. This followed passage of the Regularisation of Developments Bill in September 2015 after an increase in the number of building collapses. The law was enacted to guide a forensic audit of buildings and increase public safety. Many buildings have been marked for demolition. The Deputy Governor also met the South C Residents Association on Thursday. The association has been complaining of haphazard construction. "This is a warning to those who have broken the law in this and other residential and commercial areas.To all land grabbers, your days are numbered," Igathe said. He pledged to work with residents of South C. Grabbing of public lands, persistent water shortage, bad roads and lack of streetlights were cited by residents. Igathe said that the county and National Land Commission will reclaim all lost land. He was accompanied by Nahashon Muguna from the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company. “We are behind in the development of water sources for the last 20 years. We are strained when it comes to water supply and work to prioritise critical facilities like hospitals. We have accelerated plans for new water sources," Muguna said.        