The banking sector in Kenya is contemplating introducing collaterals for inter-bank lending to erase market segmentation and increase participants in that particular market. This is one of the suggestions presented yesterday by a team of researchers at a symposium on inclusive financial development convened by the Kenya Bankers Association. According to the lead researcher, Professor Victor Murinde of SOAS University London, collateral in inter-bank lending is likely to eliminate credit risk premiums incurred by smaller banks that are mostly used by borrowers at the bottom of the pyramid. “Collaterals in inter-bank market will lower banks risk-taking behavior and erase the class gap amongst banking institutions. This will likely increase players in the country’s inter-bank market, currently rated at 78 per cent,’’ said Murinde. This suggestion tends to support the Central Bank of Kenya, which said it was exploring the use of pooled securities under the control of a central counterpart as collateral for inter-bank money market transactions in September this year. Currently, the inter-bank market depends solely on trust, with bigger banks finding it hard to lend to smaller banks perceived as high-risk. This has a negative trickle-down effect on most borrowers in Kenya who depend on low-tier institutions for credit. While presenting a monetary policy statement to Treasury CS Henry Rotich, the CBK Governer Patrick Njoroge said the shared security facility would be run centrally and help improve liquidity in the inter-bank market. No more information on this plan has been issued by the regulator. Speaking during the opening ceremony for the Banking Symposium 2017, Njoroge stayed clear of the topic but urged researchers and other stakeholders in the banking sectors to deliberate keenly even as they seek for best practices that will shape inclusive financial development in Kenya. “The role of the inter-bank market is important for market discipline and therefore has the potential for peer regulation among banks. But, there is always another side of the coin hence the need for intensive research and symposiums like this one,’’ said Njoroge. On his part, the KBA chief executive Habil Olaka, said that the research arising from the symposium will provide a blueprint for the banking industry to support the economy’s progress to achieve greater levels. “Participants are wrestling with the research findings to reach consensus on the best ways forward for greater inclusive financial development, that can be provided by Kenya’s banking sector today,” said Olaka. 