Amendments to Elections Act, 2017 were applicable in determining the presidential election petition, the Supreme Court has said. The judges dismissed claims that the laws could not be applied based on blanket presumptions of the constitution. Lady Justice Njoki Ndung'u said on Monday that Parliament was within its mandate to amend the laws so the idea that the changes were ill-advised held no water. Njoki said the same laws are being used by Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia so Parliament's adoption was in line with international best practices. "Kenya is a highly litigant country where every lawyer has their own interpretation of the law. But as the apex court, we have to ensure the country is not lost confusion by inevitably determining all issues in a given petition," she said. Njoki said the laws should therefore be applied to all pending election petitions in lower courts. "Presidential elections have a tendency to attract enormous public interest. As the apex court, we must always focus to critically analyse such petitions as the end results will determine the predictability of Kenya's future electoral process. Our decisions must, therefore, be carefully analysed," she said. According to the judge, Parliament fulfilled the requirement of public participation before approving the amendments which were passed on October 12 and sent to the President for assent on October 13. She said President Uhuru Kenyatta did not assent to the laws until after the October 26 repeat election and that they therefore came into effect on November 2. "The petitioners cannot, therefore, try to question the intent of the amendments which cannot even be sustained by mere claims in their petitions. In our view, such claims are not enough to plead inconsistencies of the laws with the constitution," she said. She said the petitioners did not clearly plead and argue the inconsistencies of the revised laws. Her sentiments were echoed by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu who noted the Supreme Court's mandate is to ensure laws are clear to avoid ambiguity. Mwilu said Section 83 of the constitution played an integral part in determination of two key petitions so a court that sets precedent for lower courts must emulate such. Regarding the unconstitutionality of the amendments, Mwilu said the court had pronounced itself in line with the law. Read: Raila's election withdrawal had no effect, petitions lacked merit - Supreme Court Also read: Low voter turnout did not taint Uhuru's election victory, says Maraga Click here for latest political news  