Following the bloodless removal of President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe after close to four decades in power, there has arisen an atmosphere of anti-authoritarianism across the better part of sub-Saharan Africa. Some are pointing at the gradual occurrence of an ‘African Spring’ where long-reigning oppressive regimes are being threatened by opposition from a fed-up populace. In Kenya, the opposition and its supporters term the sitting government illegitimate and autocratic and relentlessly advocate its removal by virtually all means possible. However, we honestly cannot compare our situation with Zimbabwe’s. This is because unlike Mugabe, who had lost the confidence of all Zimbabweans, President Uhuru Kenyatta boasts support from a section of the nation. Democracy, the most efficient system of government (at least so far), is favorable to his cause. We fail to acknowledge the express provisions of our own Constitution, which is the Supreme law of the land. It unequivocally states that sovereign unparalleled power that navigates the country rests in the citizens. Thus, the considerable number of voters that supports Uhuru, coupled with the written laws whose protocol has been observed, are sure to guarantee him tenure for the remainder of his presidency. Our political, social and economic status are a joke. Unemployment rates are through the roof, innocent children and protesters forever silenced by police bullets have now become the norm. The spectre of corruption torments us day and night. The nationalist spirit is dead. Now, people are openly pushing for secession, a vivid indication of where we stand as a nation. Pushing for secession is, or rather should be, anyone’s fundamental right, freedom of expression and all that. However, we should shelve that idea first and explore all the other available avenues, regardless of how arduous or hopeless they may seem. We should first of all remember that there are things that cannot be reversed, and whose consequences we cannot be fully aware of until it is too late. What then can we do? That’s one tough question, considering the fact that compromise is the best solution. Compromise by the opposition by letting the government sit out the remainder of its term. Compromise by the government by realising that if indeed it is to enjoy its stay, then it should listen to the grievances of the opposition supporters. In short, just embrace a nationalist spirit. There are many of us but we have one country. We can only just share it. It is sad that Kenya has to deal with tribal politics. It totally blinds us to the reality that a healthy nation should focus on issue-based politics and not identity politics. Instead of mapping out strategies to tackle problems in education, the economy and the likes, we are distracted by tribal representation in government. Seeking representation in government isn’t bad at all. In fact, it is the most effective way of furthering your interests as a citizen. In the Kenyan situation, however, it is a proven and indisputable fact that tribal politicians do very little to promote and/or protect the interests of their ‘people’. Therefore it’s utterly useless to bring up tribe in today’s Kenya. The working class in Kenya all face the same problems, identical issues, but everyone prefers to look at tribe before issues. If we were to take our problems into consideration, we’d realise that we’re all not that different from one another. All our children need access to quality education. We all need secure jobs with good working environments and comfortable benefits, and we all need to live in a secure tranquil community, free of fear or intimidation. Strange though this is, tribal identity seems to be the sole component standing between us and progress. Our leaders are a reflection of our society. The moment we do away with tribal affiliations and take up issue-based politics, we will realise that we’re breeding a new crop of leaders that is compelled to address real issues that are plaguing and weakening our people.