Thika United drew first blood in the Kenyan Premier League promotion play-off after beating Ushuru 2-1 at the Thika Stadium yesterday. Thika was the hungrier of the two teams as they piled pressure early on and nearly broke the deadlock barely four minutes into the encounter as Onwudi Chibueze rose high to nod Suleiman Ngotho’s cross inches wide. Ushuru responded to the threat with one of their own as Benson Amianda picked Kennedy Obwanda’s goalkick, dribbled past Thika defenders but his shot was off the target. Thika were forced to make an early substitution when Michael Mutinda went down with a calf strain, paving the way for Said Abdalla on the quarter-hour mark. The introduction of the speedy Abdalla brought more impetus in Thika’s midfield and his combination with Harambee Stars’ trialist Said Tsuma intensified the homeside’s pace and dominance. Eugene Mukangula had a goal disallowed for offside by centre referee Davies Omweno in the 22nd minute when he tapped in Dennis Odhiambo’s pass into the net. Nicholas Muyoti’s gamble of deploying experienced leftback Dennis Odhiambo in midfield paid off in the 37th minute when the former Kenyan international chipped a long pass to Mukangula who weaved past two defenders before unleashing a fierce shot which centre half Fredrick Kentile blocked onto Adballa’s way.   With Kentile down and the goalkeeper to beat, Abdalla made no mistake in sending the ball into the net to give Thika the lead. The hosts managed to control the proceedings and were deserved leaders at the break. At resumption, Ken Kenyatta withdrew holding midfielder Wycliffe Nyangechi for the attack-minded Michael Macharia. Kenyatta further rested misfiring Liberian, Roosevelt Blaty, for Hassan Muhammad eight minutes into the half. Oscar Mbugua nearly leveled matters for Ushuru in the 64th minute when he rifled Amianda’s cross on target but Thika stopper, Eliud Emase, parried the ball out for a corner kick. Muyoti hacked Peter Okoth for Francis Muturi in the 73rd minute in a bid to bolster his defensive line-up but this never worked as, a minute later, Ushuru found the equaliser through Mohammed. Mohammed connected Mbugua’s cross to beat Emase from cross range. Wasteful Chibueze redeemed himself in the 85th minute putting Ushuru’s centre half Fredrick Kentile under pressure where the latter directed Chibueze’s goal-bound shot into his own net for Thika’s second and winning goal. “It was a tough game. The boys did a commendable job. We were composed even after conceding and I hope we shall take the second leg with the same composure. The long court tussles affected us but am happy the boys reacted well,” said Muyoti. His Ushuru counterpart, Kenyatta said: “It’s unfortunate that we lost. Their second goal was an own goal but I hope we shall overturn the results on Sunday. The off season affected us. We could not turn out for training as a full house.” Should Thika remain in the league they stand to pocket Sh300, 000 from Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who attended the match.