The Kitengela bus park beautification project is in jeopardy as ODM activist Bob Njagi has stopped it. The dispute concerns the awarding of a deal for partnership with the county. The Star's spot check on Tuesday found the bus park without a roof and the shades vandalised. Njagi confirmed on Tuesday that he stopped the construction but said it was “by word of mouth”, not through hired goons as alleged by Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku's office. Ole Lenku’s press secretary Billy Muiruri claimed on Tuesday that the businessman hired youths to stop the project last Friday. Documents show Njagi's Southern Connection company applied to partner with the county on January 21, 2016.  The company wanted to be the sole marketing and advertising agent and had also sought authority to install street lights in the region’s major towns. These are Kitengela, Ngong, Ongata Rongai, Kajiado, Kiserian and Loitokitok. Njagi said his company was awarded the contract to beautify the bus park. There were also reports that on January 5 that year - before his company made the application - the county asked Southern Connection to seek advertisers for the project. But an advertising company known as Leacom was working on the bus park last week after being granted partnership and paying levies required by the county. It is not clear how authority to market the same site could have been granted to two companies but levies only collected from only one. On Tuesday, a top Leacom official who declined to be named said: "We are the sole partners and we have paid all the levies. Let us stop at that,” he said. He referred The Star to the county director of revenue. Lenku suspended revenue director Jonathan Turere and the Kajiado East revenue officer over failure to meet targets. More on this: Ole Lenku suspends revenue officers over corruption, replaces Chief of Staff But Njagi said he was in talks with Leacom owners and expressed optimism about the signing of a deal this week. “This is about my business. I wonder why the county is engaging the media on this matter instead of engaging me directly. They have wronged me and now they also want to malign my name," he told The Star by phone. “My concern is that the company was awarded the work and yet the Kajiado East sub-county administrator had given me the job. This is ridiculous because that company took a short cut which I propose to challenge in court." Click here for the latest political news