Cost of doing business within the port of Mombasa has more than doubled because of non-tariff barriers and other complicated administrative procedures. Cargo clearing agents at the port are blaming the government for introducing regulations that now hinder the smooth clearance process, while blaming the prolonged electioneering process for delays. “Cargo cannot leave the port of Mombasa without being forced to undergo another verification, and will have to go through inspection by a team called Pre-Export and Verification of Conformity,” said Kenya International Freight and Warehouse Association chairman William Ojonyo. Importers incur an unprecedented extra Sh10 million daily from paying for storage of cargo and extra taxes because of these non-tariff barriers, according to Kifwa. Ojonyo said officials from Kenya Revenue Authority stationed at the port do not follow laid down procedures of cargo clearance, and are inefficient. “KRA officers have now ceased from being trade facilitators to trade barriers,” said Ojonyo in an interview with the Star. His statement comes at a time Kenya Ports Authority is boasting an impressive 10.6 per cent growth between January and September this year. KPA managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi last week said the port handled a total of 22,756,448 tons of cargo compared with 20,566,156 tons registered in the corresponding period in 2016. She said ship turn-around, the time taken by a vessel from when it berths to the time it leaves the port, achieved an all-time high of 2.9 days. Cargo dwell time has also come down from 12.6 days sometime back to 4.2 days. However, Kifwa importers are still paying extra charges for storage of goods at the port. “Cargo cannot leave the port of Mombasa without paying for extra storage costs because of the ineffectiveness of KRA officers,” he said. At the same time, Kifwa urged the National Transport Safety Authority to hasten registration of imported vehicles and issuance of number plates. Ojonyo blamed NTSA in the clearing of motor vehicles saying they are ineffective. “NTSA has become an impediment to clearing of vehicles. They are unable to give number plates as and when needed, they are unable to clear the registration as and when needed, and the impact is that vehicles pay extra storage when they stay longer,” he said.