Bungoma county government has announced that 80 per cent of its multi-million tender projects will be given to locals to uplift their living standards.  Governor Wycliffe Wangamati directed procurement officials to ensure 60 per cent of the tenders benefit youths and women in line with his campaign pledges. "Effectively, out of the Sh4 billion development budget, Sh3.2 billion will be business for the residents," Wangamati said. He said 20 per cent of the tenders will go to non-locals. "Management of procurement for all sub-county has also been devolved to ensure all corners of the county benefit from devolution." "Under this arrangement, only firms from particular regions will be awarded tenders for those regions," the governor said. Tim Machi, county director of communication, told the Star that officials have been sent to wards to train residents to register businesses so that they can trade with the government. "We have discovered that multi-million tender projects were awarded to either one person or two in the previous years. This is a situation the governor does not want to see." "He wants to see most residents are millionaires and have big businesses to compete with others," Machi said adding that the county government is committed to support residents to expand their businesses to win tenders in construction such as roads, schools, among others. Wangamati's administration says this follows the national government's formula where 80 per cent of tenders are awarded to local firms before foreign companies. "The Public Procurement and Disposal Act restricts the national government to ensure a percentage of businesses are executed by locals." Residents are set to benefit from the tenders from Wangamati's plan to construct more streams in national schools in the county such as Friends School Kamusinga and Lugulu Girls. The governor has constituted a county education task force to work on the logistics of establishing extra streams in the two schools. Locals are set to benefit from multi-million road construction tenders from the Mt Elgon's Sh300 million annual budget following CRA's classification of the devolved unit as one the marginalised areas. Also read: NGOs council slams Kiambu county over motion to employ 70% locals More on this: Government to sue Kiambu over motion on 70 per cent jobs for locals - Kiraithe Click here for latest political news  