Opposition chief Raila Odinga has said he is ready to die if that would guarantee Kenyans electoral justice and an end to electoral fraud. Speaking in Kitui yesterday, Raila laughed off assertion by Attorney General Githu Muigai that he would be charged with treason, whose penalty is death, should he be sworn in as President.  For the third time now, Raila promised he would be sworn in as the People’s President. Read : Raila nearly sworn in at Kilifi , pledges to hold up Bible later The NASA chief addressed mourners in Kyondoni village, the home of Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, who died of cancer on December 6. Nyenze, 60, died while undergoing treatment for Coronary cancer.  He has been ailing since 2008. More on this : [VIDEO] Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze is dead Raila said those who rigged the presidential election have no business issuing threats or intimidating statements.  He said although the IEBC was in contempt of the Supreme Court ruling by refusing to open its servers, NASA had gained access and established that he beat President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August 8 General Election. Raila said the election results were the basis of the unstoppable move to swear him in.  He added that besides pushing for electoral justice, NASA wants a free and independent Judiciary, a police service which does not shoot and kill Kenyans and a restructured and strengthened devolution.  He was with principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. NASA leaders have said plans are still underway to swear in Raila as Kenya’s president. ODM executive director Oduor Ong’wen on Sunday said Raila will be sworn-in at a national ceremony in due time.  “We will swear him in wapende wasipende (whether they like it or not),” Ong’wen said without giving a specific date. He said the People’s Assemblies are not meant to take over the county assemblies but are meant to give sovereign power back to the people as guaranteed in the Constitution. Read more : NASA postpones Raila's swearing - in The state, he said, is under the people because it comes third under the organisational structure of the country according to the Constitution. “I believe and many other people believe the only legitimately elected person as the President of the Republic of Kenya is none other than Raila Odinga,” Ong’wen said. He added that apart from Raila, the only other time Kenyans have been allowed to elect their president of choice in 54 years was in 2002 when former President Mwai Kibaki was elected. Click here for the latest political news 