 Let me begin by informing you that we, here in Kenya, are currently going through a political and constitutional crisis that some Western diplomats do not seem to understand. Or, if they do, they are prescribing the wrong solution to this crisis, and we would like you to understand this problem from our own point of view, not that of anyone else. As the English saying goes, it is the wearer of the shoe who knows where it pinches and not the one who sells the shoe! What do you think we should do with a government which has seized power unconstitutionally? Seventy-five per cent of Kenyans cannot and will not recognise this government. This raises enormous problems.  We are concerned about solving these problems now as well as making Kenya safe for our children, grandchildren and all generations to come. We have been involved in this struggle for democracy and constitutional governance for many years and we are not just about to give up this birthright because someone is trying to appease us with a calabash of porridge. We shall not do that. This political and constitutional crisis we are in today has no quick fixes, either in favor of the US government or in favor of the Uhuru government. It is in the interests of Kenyans as a whole that we must look for a solution to our double crisis: political and constitutional.  The US government has, no doubt, identified its interest in Africa. I see this interest in terms of working with any government in power. This is evident from the fact that it congratulated the Uhuru illegitimate government after the swearing-in of Uhuru a few days ago. We ourselves, because this Jubilee government works contrary to our interests and needs, did not congratulate Uhuru, nor are we likely to do so in the near future.  That, I think, is not tantamount to taking a hard stand. It simply means that we would be crazy to go to bed with a government that kills our innocent brothers and sisters wantonly and then expects us to do business "as usual" with the same government. Uhuru Kenyatta is on record as having congratulated the police for doing a wonderful job during the post-election period. A total of 285 Kenyans have been killed by the police in defense of this illegitimate Uhuru government. Then, even before the fly off Uhuru's sleeve settled on the wall in his living room, the US government is asking Raila to work with this government within the context of the Constitution, which this same government has abrogated left, right and center to seize power. No. Something is definitely wrong in the manner in which some Western diplomats are trying to shape the so-called dialogue to "return peace and stability to Kenya".  I was actually shocked when Uhuru congratulated the police for what they did. What am I going to tell the parents of baby Samantha Pendo, the six-month-old baby who was bludgeoned to death in her crib at 1 o'clock in the morning in my County Kisumu, if we decide to join a government that Uhuru heads? The explanation the police gave for killing Samantha was that they were chasing demonstrators! Were we to accept that as an explanation, was baby Samantha demonstrating against the stolen elections in her crib at one in the morning? If that were so, then the elections were stolen in a really big way that even the Holy Spirit, revealing herself through Baby Pendo, sent a very clear message to the police that "here I am, sleeping as baby Samantha Pendo, but actually completely upset about with what Uhuru has done." So the police went and killed her.  The US government has never recognised the government of North Korea. It is a government in power but the US knows exactly what is wrong with it and, hence, cannot go to bed with it. Why is it that in Africa individuals can seize power undemocratically and yet the US government is quick to recognise such governments?  The game of democracy is easy to understand. I compare it to a soccer match. There must first of all be a field whose size and shape is universally accepted as suitable for playing soccer. Then there has to be a referee who understands the rules of playing soccer. Two teams of 11 each side will then enter the field and play the game according to the rules which the referee, respected by both sides, enforces. After 90 minutes of play the winner is determined by the number of goals scored.  In our case we played the first game as NASA against Jubilee on August 8, 2017. Although it was quite clear that we won the game after 90 minutes, the referee — the IEBC — awarded Jubilee with the Presidency as the winner. We appealed against the decision of the referee in a case we filed in the Supreme Court. After carefully reviewing the game, the Supreme Court decided that the game had not been played according to the rules, the referee blew too many whistles against our players unfairly and a good number of the goals we scored were ruled as off side. The Court therefore annulled the game and asked the referee to order a replay on condition that the game is played strictly according to the rules, goals are fairly counted and the winner declared without any underhand deals.  Surprisingly, our opponents approached this rematch with the gusto to completely ignore the rules of the game while intimidating and scaring the referee to do his job in accordance with their wishes. In fact when we went to the field for the rematch, we found our opponents preparing to play American football and not soccer. That is why we withdrew from this exercise altogether. It was no longer a legitimate exercise.  At the end of it both the IEBC — the referee — and the Supreme Court, in total fear of their lives, declared Uhuru the winner. But what did he really win?  As you can see we are in a country where our unity has completely been undermined by undemocratic seizure of power by Uhuru. The problem does not lie with Kenyans. The problem is with Uhuru and his Jubilee brigade pretending that they are in power democratically. They are not. The US government should address Uhuru directly the way it deals with the President of North Korea. Both presidents have very little regard for the lives of ordinary people. We all witnessed how Raila went to City Mortuary in Nairobi on Thursday this week to condole with the parents, relatives and friends of the 27 victims of police brutality. Uhuru did not bother about consoling those unfortunate families. Instead he congratulated the police who killed them for doing a good job. Is that democratic or fascist behavior? I think the latter.  As a Kenyan, this is what I would tell Uhuru were I to meet him. "Mr Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, please accept that what happened here was not a democratic election; it was a constitutional coup on your part. Your so-called government is unsustainable. We will need to have a transitional caretaker government, agreed to by Jubilee and NASA, here for a minimum of one year to clean up this mess. We have respectable Kenyans who can lead that government. Its key role will be first and foremost to look into the weaknesses in our present Constitution that makes it possible for individuals to manipulate the political process and emerge as dictators after an election. I would propose that our safest bet is to have a constitutional amendment that will allow for a pure parliamentary system of government to avoid this cut- throat fight every five years to choose a President. Secondly, let us take devolution further; let us have a federal system of government. We are exactly where Nigeria was in the 1960s. They eventually went federal and have managed their political affairs much better. This is the time to take the bull by the horns and secure a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future for all Kenyans in a much more perfect union." I look forward to be supported in this proposal by my American brothers and sisters.