Kakamega County Government has pledged to offered to fully sponsor SportPesa Premier League side, Kakamega Homeboyz starting next season. The move will make Homeboyz the second top flight team to be sponsored by the county governments after Vihiga United, who are supported by Vihiga county. While briefing the media at Bukhungu Stadium on Monday, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, said the county is impressed with Homeboyz’ performance this season and will adopt the club as the County team and accord it all the support it requires.  “As a county that values sports, we are impressed with the team and I know with this kind of sponsorship, the team will perform much better. “I want to appeal to the team’s management to put the right structures in place in a bid to attract more fans and sponsors,” Oparanya added. He said Phase Two of Bukhungu Stadium refurbishment will commence early next year as he they seek to elevate the facility to international level. “We want to market our county through sports and my government will pump in more funds to support these activities,” he added. Oparanya, who was flanked by Cecafa secretary general Nicholas Musonye, his deputy Philip Kutima and Kakamega county minister for sport Robert Sumbi revealed that after refurbishment, the facility will be renamed Bukhungu International Stadium. Excited Kakamega Homeboyz chairman Cleophas Toto Shimanyula assured the governor and the county government that the move will improve the club’s standards of football. “It has been very tough for us to compete with other teams that enjoys good sponsorship. The deal has come at the right time and I want to assure the governor that we will give it our their best shot,” he said.  Shimanyula said they intent to beef up the squad as they seek to finish high up on the log. He also challenged his players to reciprocate the good gesture by fighting hard to win the title. He called on the fans from the region to rally behind the team which finished the league fifth with 50 points. Kakamega governor also hinted that he has invited the Kenya Premier League side AFC Leopards for a friendly on Jamhuri Day— an event that will coincide with the official opening of the Stadium.