The mere conduct of regular elections in a democracy is not an end in itself. Elections are part of democracy, although some people believe the opposite is also true. Our politicians succeed in telling us how important elections are and we should, therefore, elect them. However, the interesting bit is that they don’t tell us what happens after the queuing, bracing the cold or the sun to vote for them. This is unequivocally the missing link between the voters and politicians. I have come to the conclusion that mismanaged elections hurt democracy to the core. Polls have been blamed for engendering divisions in democratic societies since in most “democratic developing countries” elections are always disputed. And more often, it is the incumbents who carry the day and opposition parties are left out in the cold. Ours, for example, is a winner takes it all arrangement and what follows is a myriad of accusations and counteraccusations, some true others not. The ruling party is accused of using state resources and power to manipulate the election, right from the campaigning stage all the way to voting and counting. In response, the incumbents accuse the opposition of being guns for hire by foreign regimes in their attempt to get the establishment out of power. In some instances, this ilk of governments fabricate documents to portray the opposition as beneficiaries of Western states’ largesse. What follows the links for funding to opposition parties is cut off, throwing them off balance, and curtailing their effort to keep the government in check. At times, these fights are exacerbated, raising tensions of civil war. This partly serves to explain why decent people are averse to democracy, whereas it is the worst form of government, expect for all the others, as Winston Churchill said. One undisputed factor that undermines the prospects of democracy in this country is the high level of mistrust. A large segment of the population doesn’t see anything good in the electoral system, at least when it comes to the presidential election other elective seats held constantly. And this is the breeding ground for all the wrongs we have witnessed in our constitutional democracy. This is the evidence of a much deeper mistrust Kenyans have in each other, and it is something that has permeated our culture for decades.  Our society is such that the patient doesn’t fully trust the doctor, until the medic speaks his or her mother tongue. Others fail to engage in business ventures because the other company is owned by someone from a different ethnic background. Husbands no longer trust their wives joining empowerment social groups. When a relative gives you cash for a certain course, say, for transport or even appreciation for a service rendered, you have to count it before putting it in your wallet. With these surging mistrust levels, you can expect people to hold little regards for institutions such as the IEBC to conduct free, fair, and verifiable elections. This begs the question: Will there be a day the electoral agency conducts an election that will be deemed fair?  We seem to have been radicalised to believe that nothing good can come from the electoral commission as long as an individual who pays allegiance to the “Kenyan People” manages it. What a pity?! Kenya’s electoral system is a reflection of Kenyans continued concern for fairness and democracy. In the context of democratic elections participation includes forms of involvement. The people should be made to own the entire process. We should inculcate tinpeople the importance of elections in determining the leaders to govern us for the next five years. In this respect, people in every constituency and ward should contribute to the electoral process. This can be achieved through volunteering at any level either as polling clerks or returning officers. In countries such as Germany, for instance, everyone is allowed during the voting, counting and verification process. To them, the more people are involved the better for the country in building trust. The polling stations are filled with volunteers. Of great interest, the returning officer is not heavily supervised, something which is in sharp contrast to our case. The fact is, for them, no one is willing to obfuscate and manipulate the system. To such democracies, it is work ethic and love of country. No ill motives and malice. In conclusion, social justice, patriotism and the rule of law are the foundations of a stable and prosperous democracy, something that seems to be fundamentally missing in most of African states. Our leaders must come clean and show leadership. For democracy to flourish, it immensely requires their genuine attention. Leaders who are motivated by the desire to serve. After an election has given us leaders, they take charge of leading us to sustainable peace, unblemished development and prosperity, hence guaranteeing democracy tenure. Norman Schwarzkopf noted, “Leadership is a potent combination of character and strategy. But if you must be without one, be without strategy. “ May our leaders adopt good character to ensure democratic consolidation and steer this country into a better democracy.     