2017 has been an eventful and tumultuous year. Politics took centre stage as the economy took a beating! Many of us have often wondered why our economic growth gets seriously affected by our political campaign(s). The South African economy hardly registers an election year on its radar. It is business as usual. In Kenya virtually everything else comes to a standstill to give way to divisive political campaigns. Our August 8 presidential election surprised the world as the Supreme Court, in an unprecedented move, annulled the election. President Uhuru Kenyatta took a political left hook from the opposition NASA. He staggered and his knees buckled as he let out some choice epithets directed at the Supreme Court judges. It was a shocking display of raw emotion by a national leader and President of the Republic of Kenya. He later collected himself and launched a sterling campaign in the October 26 repeat election.  Despite severe controversy, the Supreme Court upheld Uhuru’s election, much to the chagrin of NASA leaders, who threatened to swear in Raila Odinga as the People’s President. Mercifully this was not to be, as the government may have responded with characteristic brutality, leading to fatalities. We are now left with a badly fractured and divided Kenya. The half-empty stadium during the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations tells a story. It’s a true reflection of Kenya divided right down the middle.  It is highly irresponsible and dishonest of Jubilee leaders to blame one another for the poor turnout, when indeed half of Kenyans deliberately kept away. This is a damning indictment on Kenya’s 53rd birthday. Jubilee leaders are at liberty to bury their heads in the sand, but the truth cannot be wished away. Uhuru’s promise to dialogue with the opposition after his inauguration has thus far come to naught. Indeed, he has been more resolute in arrogantly dismissing opposition demands, an indication that he is caving in to the demands of Jubilee hardliners. His flippant statement that NASA leaders should wait to dialogue with Deputy President William Ruto in 2022 is irresponsible and callous to the extreme. It gives the secessionists leeway and a field day to implement their nefarious intentions. An elected leader cannot decline or refuse to dialogue with the electorate. Indeed, in many other jurisdictions the President could have been impeached on account of that single statement. If this is how his second term begins, then Kenyans had better brace themselves for rough times. This arrogance will harden the resolve of the opposition to play hardball with the government. What is so difficult about Uhuru being gracious and magnanimous in victory? How do you respond to your opponents’ open hand with a clenched fist? Where will the current hardline position leave his legacy?  The advisers at the Presidency are either woefully incompetent or rooting for war. Even ruthless dictators such as President Moi were flexible and knew how and when to crack the whip or soften his approach. NASA postponed Raila’s swearing-in to facilitate dialogue, but Jubilee’s response is a kick in the teeth. One doesn’t have to be a rocket scientist to predict NASA’s possible response. They will swear in Raila and let the devil take the hindmost. The burning question is: must Kenya take that route? What is so difficult about two sane adult men sitting at a round table and having a tête-à-tête? In my experience, men and women have been known “to agree to disagree”. A winner-take-all attitude does not guarantee peace, justice and tranquillity.  In the long run the responsibility of maintaining a peaceful and united Kenya lies wholly with the Presidency. It is the focus of our nationhood.  If Kenya burns nobody will blame the opposition and its leaders. The onus is on you, Mr President. Act on what is the best for Kenya. The ball is in your court.  Merry Christmas.