Kenyan farmers will benefit from Sh64 billion funding to develop new crops that can withstand harsh weather and resist attacks from pests and diseases. The commitment, made by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the European Union, will be spread over three years. Gates Foundation is to donate Sh31 billion to complement various projects funded by the European Commission worth Sh33 billion. The funds will support research to help farmers in Africa and Asia better adapt to rising temperatures, extreme weather patterns, diseases, poor soil fertility and attacks from crop pests. “The disproportionate impact of climate change on the world’s poorest people means that there is a more urgent need to help the farmers improve their productivity in the increasingly tough conditions that they continue to face,” Bill Gates said. He is the co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Gates spoke on Tuesday during the One Planet Summit in Paris to mark the second anniversary of the Paris climate accord. Governments agreed to end their heavy reliance on fossil fuels and limit global warming during the accord. The Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Organisation has predicted climatic shocks that will suck in billions of shillings meant for development. “Changes in weather patterns have resulted in failed crops, meaning the country is spending huge amounts of money on relief food or reactive adaptation strategies,” Karlo said in its 2015 Agricultural Productivity And Climate Change In Arid And Semi-Arid Kenya report. The Gates Foundation will focus on crop improvement, including boosting photosynthesis to improve yields. They will also fund initiatives to help farmers protect their crops from drought and floods. New crop management techniques that help preserve and enhance soil fertility will also be supported. It is widely expected that some of the research will be conducted in Kenya. “It is an opportunity to develop solutions, knowledge innovation, products, and technologies that can assist smallholders become more resilient and improve their lives and livelihoods,” Gates Foundation director of agricultural development Nick Austin said. The Gates Foundation also launched a Sh1.8 billion programme dubbed One Planet Fellowship to help farmers adapt to climate chang