After guiding Kenya to winning the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in his first outing, Harambee Stars head coach Paul Put has shifted his focus to the 2019 African Cup of Nations qualifiers. Put praised the qualities of the locally-based players who braved stiff competition to win the 39th edition of the regional tournament, adding that they will be highly relied upon in the Afcon matches alongside their foreign-based counterparts. The Belgium tactician said the players showed hunger to fight for the few slots of the continental showpiece. Put will use the March Fifa break to play friendly matches to test the qualities of foreign-based players and forge combinations with the local players. Speaking during luncheon held to congratulate the team, Put said: “It was good to win the Cecafa tournament which I didn’t know by the time I signed my contract. My players showed their capabilities and maximum discipline. I will be using the March international break to assess the foreign-based players and how they will work with these players. My focus now shifts to qualifying for the 2019 African Cup of Nations. I understand the quality of opponents there and I am aware that we lost the first match.” He praised the contribution of his predecessor, Stanley Okumbi, for contribution during the Cecafa tournament. “My assistant introduced me to the playing unit and I am looking forward to the same when the foreign-based players come home,” he observed. He also heaped praises on fans who attended the matches and asked the numbers on the stands to multiply. “I thank the fans who came and supported us from the first match to the final. At first, the numbers were not big but I am particularly happy with the fans who came for the final match. I urge them to come in large numbers in our next matches and motivate the players. The 12th player — the fans — play an important role in motivating the players.” Meanwhile, Stars were yesterday rewarded by various stakeholders in an effort to congratulate them for a job well done. Gaming giants SportPesa led the way with a Sh3m donation and pledged a similar amount if the team make it to the 2019 Africa Cup on Nations. The 37-strong team — playing unit and technical bench — were each handed a Sh10,000 voucher by supermarket chain Tuskys, who also promised similar token in future successes. They are now hoping that deputy president William Ruto, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua will honour their pledges amounting to Sh7m.