The ban on plastic bags, which took effect on August 28, has resulted in a cleaner and healthier environment but in came
the challenge of alternative bags.
 This was confirmed by the Environment CS Judi Wakhungu on Monday
during the Third United Nations Environment Assembly. She was, however,
quick to add  this challenge has provided an opportunity for
women and youth to develop innovations on alternative bags. A secondary school in Thika has not been left behind and two
students from Thika Girls' Karibaribi Secondary school have developed
a seedling and vegetable bag made of sisal and banana stalk fibre.
 The innovation known as eco-friendly seedling bags is barely a
month old and it is already gaining international attention at the
ongoing UNEA meeting in Gigiri.
 Teacher Diana Ndung'u said the idea came to her mind when she
heard that the National Environment Management Authority had started
implementing the ban on the use of plastic bags. “Being an agriculture teacher in the school, she thought about
something that is bio-degradable. Once she got the idea, she talked
to a few girls from the agriculture club in her school and she taught
them how to make the small bags,” she said on Monday. Ndung'u said the girls are doing the bulk of the work, while she
supervises them so that they can own the innovation. They look for
the sisal, remove the fibre from the sisal and stitch the basket. The teacher explained when you plant the tree and put the bag into
the soil, it can discompose and this is nutrients for the plant. The other advantage for using the sisal bag is that it absorbs a
lot of carbon hence helps in reducing global warming. She added that
the residue from the sisal plant can be used in so many ways
including biogas, mulch, animal feed and also in housing.
 The teacher said so far they have been using sisal collected
within the school compound, from the road side and some girls also
source it from their homes.
 "We are planning that once schools open in January, we shall
visit some of our student's home and ask parents to help us with some
sisal for our project. We will also approach the school
administration to allocate us some land to plant sisal for our
innovation,” she said. 17 year old Regina Mwihaki and Anne Njeri 16 said they collect the
sisal plant, dry them make ropes and then combine banana stalk fibre
and weave the bags.
 The bags are portable and will cost as low as Sh150 to Sh200.
 “It is thanks to one of the parents that we have been able to
exhibit at the environment meeting and we will be exhibiting again at
the annual Secondary School Science Congress in January and I will
also be introducing the idea to other agriculture teachers in the
nearby secondary schools to take it up,” said teacher Diana. Dr John Chumo, the secretary to the National Environmental
Complains Committee recommended Kenyans for adhering to the ban and
to young entrepreneurs and innovators who are coming up with
alternative which are biodegradable and environment friendly.
 “I urge the government and other agencies such as NEMA to ensure
they support upcoming industries which are environment friendly,”
said Chumo.   