Eighteen people perished in another major road accident, this time in Kilimambogo on the Thika-Garissa highway on Sunday night. The 8.30pm crash involved a Kinatwa Sacco matatu and a lorry. More than 70 people have died on roads in the past week. The December death toll as of yesterday was at least 178. According to police, the Sunday night carnage occurred when the Kitui-bound matatu swerved and rammed the oncoming lorry. The matatu was trying to avoid a motorcyclist. Witnesses blamed speeding, an overloaded matatu, reckless driving and lax police who didn’t check the matatu at two roadblocks. The matatu driver and his 11 passengers died on the spot, as did the motorcyclist and a pedestrian. The lorry driver, trapped in the wreckage for about an hour, was dead on arrival at Thika Level 5 Hospital. Firefighters from Thika station had to cut through the wreckage to save the driver. Four of the 13 people rushed to the Thika Level 5 Hospital also succumbed to their injuries. One person is in the ICU. Six others were admitted with head injuries and limb fractures. Of the six, two were treated and discharged yesterday. Two of the critically injured have been transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital. It’s alleged the matatu was overloaded, ferrying 22 passengers instead of the legal limit of 14. The lorry had three passengers.According to witnesses, the matatu was speeding. “I heard a loud thud followed by screams. I rushed at the scene, but it was so horrific. Bodies were scattered about,” Albanus Mutysa said. “The matatu was moving at a high speed and despite the driver seeing the oncoming lorry, he veered to the opposite lane, leading to the crash.” Thika MP Patrick Wainaina joined in rescuing victims. He blamed traffic police and NTSA officers. Residents said the matatu passed two roadblocks without being checked. “I don’t understand how the 14-seater matatu passed the roadblocks with 22 passengers on board without being nabbed. Again, it seems the speed governor had been tampered with,” the MP said. “These roadblocks have been turned into cash cows by unscrupulous police. That’s why we are losing innocent Kenyans on our roads, because there’s no sanity.” Wainaina said he will urge re-introduction of the Michuki rules, saying they will stem carnage. “It’s a shame we lost 18 lives through sheer carelessness, overloading, speeding and police laxity. We will kick in the Michuki rules to tame all these vices on our roads,” he said. Resident Cess Blessed said, “The tragic irony is that you will be fined Sh4 million for being in the same room with a polythene bag, but you get away with driving a matatu that is not even fit to ferry animals.”