Bitcoin extended its
recovery in holiday-thinned trading on Tuesday, rising 10
per cent to be up more than a third from last week's lows of
below $12,000. Bitcoin, the world's biggest and best-known cryptocurrency,
fell nearly 30 per cent at one stage on Friday to $11,159.93
and, despite a late recovery, had its worst week
since 2013. At 0445 GMT on Tuesday, it was quoted around $15,049
on the Luxembourg-based Bitstamp exchange. The digital currency had risen around twenty-fold since the
start of the year, climbing from less than $1,000 to as high as
$19,666 on December 17 on Bitstamp and to over $20,000 on other
exchanges. But it has posted heavy declines since. While bitcoin investors and analysts believe the decline in
its value was a natural correction after a heady run-up in
prices, there have been further warnings from market regulators
and central banks. "There is no right current price which would reflect the
right current valuation," said Andrei Popescu, Singapore-based
co-founder of COSS, which describes itself as a platform that
encompasses all features of a digital economy based on
cryptocurrency. "Taking profit is right, while buying into a long term
projection is also right. You don't have to be right in this
market, just less wrong than the rest," Popescu said. More on this: Bitcoin falls 30 per cent, posts worst week since 2013 Also read: Bitcoin craze picking up in Kenya despite CBK caution Shmuel Hauser, the chairman of the Israel Securities
Authority, said on Monday he will propose regulation to ban
companies based on bitcoin and other digital currencies from
trading on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Singapore's central bank last week issued a warning against
investment in cryptocurrencies, saying it considers the recent
surge in their prices to be driven by speculation and that the
risk of a sharp fall in prices is high. Prices of rival cryptocurrencies, which slid along with
bitcoin last week, have also recovered, with Ethereum, the
second-biggest cryptocurrency by market size, quoted around
$771, up from Sunday's low of $689 but still far from highs
around $900 hit last week. Click here for the latest political stories