Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has broken his silence and denied he supports Jubilee in exchange for a Cabinet position. Addressing the press at Kipreres, Bomet, on Monday he dismissed claims that he was promised a job. I’m still the Chama cha Mashinani Party leader, I still a champion for devolution to succeed, Rutto said. He said he was not lured by anyone, but made a choice to work with Jubilee. He termed the allegations groundless. Rutto said President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are at the helm and should be left to organise their government. “My ideas and principles have not changed because I support Jubilee. I am still in CCM and support development at the grassroots,” he said. “Free secondary education, support for the elderly and devolution, which are in the Jubilee manifesto, are similar to what I was pushing for in CCM. I will support Jubilee to ensure the leadership delivers,” Rutto added. He said CCM has elected MPs, MCAs and supporters who will work with Jubilee.  Rutto said Jubilee has good plans for the country and needs to be supported to accomplish them, regardless of political differences. He said there was no need for wrangles among leaders. Rutto said he agreed bury his differences with the President and the DP for the sake of peace and unity. “I supported UhuRuto in the run-up to the presidential repeat election because I know as leaders of this great nation we should be able to live together and accommodate one another. We should be able to iron out differences,” he said. Rutto said he, the President and the DP go a long way and there is no point to have enmity among them.  In September, the former governor joined Uhuru and Ruto for a rally in Kapkatet, a month after the August 8 General Election. Rutto was among leaders who welcomed Uhuru and Ruto after they landed in the area.  The move signaled he was on his way out of Raila Odinga’s National Super Alliance team, which he joined as the fifth principal.  Raila, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) joined forces ahead of the election.  Rutto lost the Bomet governor seat to Jubilee’s Joyce Laboso and accepted the outcome of the polls.  He even attended the swearing-in of the new governor and promised to work hand-in-hand with her to develop the county. The CCM leader campaigned for Jubilee Party ahead of the October 26 presidential rerun. He has conspicuously been missing in NASA rallies since his defeat. Former Meru Governor Peter Munya also joined NASA and was to lead campaigns in Central. But he took a swift U-turn and pledged to work with Jubilee after losing his seat to his bitter rival Kiraitu Murungi.