Fat people are more at peace with themselves than their skinnier companions, a group of researches claim, despite obesity leading to a higher risk of diseases including cancer and type-2 diabetes. The theory was gleaned from a study of Britain's largest genetic database, which found that people with a higher BMI were less likely to describe themselves as tense or nervous.    Scientists at the University of Bristol noted that their finding was not conclusive, although experts said it sounds plausible, with some noting that people prone to worry could have higher metabolisms.  Dasha Nicholls, from the Royal College of Psychiatrists, had an alternative theory, that people who are malnourished found it harder to contain their emotions.  She told The Times: 'We know that if someone is nutritionally compromised that affects their ability to regulate their emotions. "It doesn't surprise me in that sense that there would be a direct link, but I think it's a really interesting study." Britain has the highest obesity rates in the European Union, with nearly 30 per cent of women and just under 27 per cent of men overweight.  Other health figures are also worrying, showing we are second worst at exercising and have one of the highest rates of heavy drinkers. Britons are also near the top of an international table for having dangerously high cholesterol levels. The statistics follow a warning that it has become normal to be vastly overweight, with this country following the lead of the US, the world's most obese nation.  The latest analysis comes from the European Society of Cardiology, which ranks British men as the most obese in 47 countries including the 28 in the EU. British women have the second worst rate of obesity across the 47, behind only Turkey. Tam Fry, of the National Obesity Forum, said: 'To have higher obesity levels than any other European country is truly appalling, and the researchers are correct in fearing worse statistics in years to come.'   Click here for the latest political news