South Sudanese rebels
accused the government army of attacking one of their bases
overnight as a new round of peace talks between the warring
sides opened in the Ethiopian capital on Monday. Rebel spokesman Lam Paul Gabriel said government troops
attacked a rebel base in the town of Lasu in the south of the
country late on Sunday. "They are in the IO base," he said, referring to the name of
the rebel group. Army spokesmen were not immediately available
to comment when called by Reuters on Monday afternoon. Earlier on Monday, army spokesman Lul Ruai Koang said four
aid workers from the French organisation Solidarites
International had been kidnapped a day earlier by rebels near
the western city of Raja. The organisation said on Monday it had
lost contact with three members of its team on Saturday. The talks in Addis Ababa have been convened by the East
African bloc IGAD and are aimed at bringing the warring sides
back to the negotiating table after a 2015 peace deal collapsed
last year during heavy fighting in the capital, Juba. The war began in 2013 between soldiers of President Salva
Kiir, an ethnic Dinka, and his former vice president, Riek
Machar, a Nuer. Tens of thousands of people have died and about
one-third of South Sudan's 12 million population have fled their
homes. It has mutated from a two-way fight into a fragmented
conflict, making peace more elusive, the top United Nations
peace-keeper in the country told Reuters earlier this year. Diplomats and analysts question whether the will to end the
fighting exists, as Kiir's government holds the military upper
hand and rebel leader Machar is under house arrest in South
Africa. Machar sent representatives to the Ethiopian
capital for the talks. Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn voiced strong
criticism of the warring sides at the opening of Monday's forum
in Addis Ababa. "More than half of the people of South Sudan are either
refugees in neighouring countries, internally displaced within
South Sudan or suffering from food insecurity in their own
village," he said. "It is equally clear that all this suffering is taking place
because you the leaders of South Sudan have repeatedly failed to
talk to each other, to negotiate, to be tolerant, to make
compromises," he added. "Today, I appeal to you to stop this
intransigence." There were no immediate statements from representatives for
Kiir and Machar, or from the 20 other parties IGAD has included
in the new round of talks. Click here for latest political news