Incoming Kenya Shooting Sports Federation full-bore captain, Sanford Otundo, has vowed to streamline operations at the section when he assumes office next month. The two-time Kenya Open champion was elected the full-bore captain during the elections held at the Defence Forces Rifle Association Range in Laikipia Air Base over the weekend. He beat incumbent, Kenya Navy Senior Sergeant, Wilberforce Kerema, with 72 votes against six. General Service Unit’s Senior Sergeant Otundo will work hand-in-hand with his assistant Warrant Officer II Mustafa Dida and Kakuzi assistant marketing manager of Anthony Dodds — the civilian representative. Top on Otundo’s list of priorities is drafting a constitution which will guide the functions and processes of the shooting discipline. “Things have been happening in an inconsistent and jumbled-up manner and it is time this house came to order. The constitution will set up all offices required, outline decision making hierarchies and who qualifies to do what and how,” said Otundo. “We (shooters) been voicing genuine questions and concerns about things that affect us but some of them fell on deaf ears. Having a group without a reference handbook often leads to anarchy to both its leadership and membership, hence the necessity of having a constitution to avert such in future.” The Kenya Open holder also intimated that he anticipates that the sport will attain international competition standards during his tenure, or at the very least lay the foundation for improving Kenyan full-bore. He also Otundo wants to be in the leadership which will lead Kenya to adopt the Bisley bible. He has also proposed the purchase of full-bore equipment (guns, gloves, scope), bring in more sponsors on board and inviting international coaches to train the trigger pullers. “The national team is not (and shouldn’t) be a reserve for a few of us. There’s need to break the monotony and my office’s contribution to bringing everyone to a level playground will be sourcing for professional coaches to train our shooters. We only need to be separated by one’s own reading and judgment of the wind, mirage and light,” added Otundo, who has represented Kenya at the UK Bisley for over 10 years.