It is always assumed, at least since the emergence of liberal democracy as a more acceptable form of government, that dictatorships and authoritarian regimes are no good. They are no good because they tend to betray the famous definition of democracy by Abraham Lincoln as “government of the people, by the people, for the people”. A good number of people always refer to this definition without remembering the historical context in which it was given. Lincoln was speaking at the end of the American Civil War, when he memorialised the sacrifices of those who gave their lives at Gettysburg, and called upon Americans to dedicate themselves to ensuring the survival of America’s representative democracy since the Civil War was fought to promote and defend “government of the people, by the people and for the people”. According to Lincoln, this kind of government was never to be allowed “to perish from the face of this earth”. We too, who have fought so hard for Kenya’s Second Liberation, would not like to see “this democracy perish on the land of Kenya”. We are perhaps in a moment of history in Kenya today where we need to ask ourselves whether representative democracy, as defined by Lincoln, is in danger of perishing from the face of Kenya’s Mother Earth if Uhuru Kenyatta gets his way in terms of what discourse he should engage in with the people of Kenya. Uhuru said, “Electioneering is over: Let us get on with development.” But if democracy is about “a government of the people, for the people and by the people,” is it not equally true that the people must, at all times, ponder how they are governed and how to control their governors? This, indeed, is both a developmental and a political issue. Recall what George Bernard Shaw, the English playwright, also emphasised when he said, in a preface to his play, The Apple Cart, that “we need to be governed, and yet to control our governors.” Controlling our governors is essentially a political question after we have accepted the need to be governed.  The manner in which we control our governors is always evolving, always subject to legal, constitutional and political debates. You cannot, at any one time, lock it up in a closet and say, it is now time for development, no more debates on the way we control our governors. This debate must always be open to the people since that government is best which ensures that it is for the people, by the people and of the people. Let us revisit the political reflections of a great African political leader and thinker, Julius Nyerere, a man who should qualify as Africa’s most renown public intellectual of our time.  After carefully observing the provisions of the Tanzanian Constitution under which he exercised the powers of the presidency, Nyerere remarked, “The Tanzanian Constitution gives me so much power that were I to exercise them all, I would be the worst dictator in Africa.” Dictators are, therefore, not born: They grow up and exercise political power in contexts that make them dictators. Thus, bad constitutions, like the Tanzanian one, were it to fall into the hands of a President determined to use those powers “legally or constitutionally”, would lead to results that would not have been good for democracy in Tanzania.  Dictators seem to emerge, not instantaneously. But when they progressively exercise their “constitutional space dictatorially”. They soon commit excesses which, most likely, invite people’s rebellion as a way of “controlling their governors”, as George Bernard Shaw reminded us in his exhortation of what democracy means to the people. Let us go a little back in history and visit Germany under the Third Reich headed by Adolf Hitler. Not many people, in Africa, at least, are aware that from the end of the First World War to the time Hitler came to power in January 1933, Germany was ruled by a liberal democratic regime under the Weimar Republic.  But when Hitler was appointed Chancellor on January 30, 1933, he exploited the weaknesses in the Weimar Constitution that allowed him to rise to power seemingly constitutionally, and to begin to propagate his populist right-wing policy of exalting Germany’s greatness and subordinating civil rights to the power of the “developmentalist” authoritarian state, which he led as head of state, head of government and head of the ruling party. According to the “Fuehrer Principle,” one historian once wrote, “Hitler rapidly accumulated so much power that he soon started to stand outside the legal state and to determine matters of policy himself.”  The more he did this, the more other institutions of government, including parliament (the Reichstag), began to lie prostrate before the big man called Hitler.  Individuals and institutions were soon to be aligned to the goals of government, propagated essentially as “developmental”, and hence, not worthy of debate. This is the real meaning of “totalitarianism”: ie, when the government observes no limit to its authority and rationalises this as being in the public good.  Under such circumstances, the idea that government is democratic when it is of the people, by the people and for the people rapidly disappears, and a monster called a dictator emerges and claims legitimacy simply by his existence, and self-proclaimed virtue of being the defender of public interest. Reading his speeches and listening to Uhuru since his inauguration as President, I fear Kenya may be going the German way after the Weimar Republic in the early 1930s. Remember Hitler’s initiative to galvanise all sectors of German society was based on a “developmental” programme. The exhortation of the rest of society to concentrate on “making Germany great and stop wasting time in discussing other ideologies that were propagated by the church, intellectuals, liberal political parties, Marxists, etc”. Uhuru says, “It is time we discuss development” and nothing else. Supposing the kind of development some of us prefer would need urgent changes in the Constitution for a more robust devolution or even a federal state: Why should this be banished until Uhuru leaves power? Is this government not “a government of the people, by the people and for the people”? Or is it simply “a government by the President, of the President but for the people?” We have just had a very controversial election, which exposed the weak points in our Constitution, the overbearing nature of the Executive over other arms of the government and electoral laws that expose the IEBC as an institution prone to be undermined by its weak internal architecture and its proclivity to be manipulated by any government in power. Must we banish debates on these issues until such time that William Ruto is running as a Jubilee presidential candidate nearer to 2022? I feel extremely uncomfortable by Mr Kenyatta’s emerging intolerance towards political dialogue in a context where only such dialogue will help us deal with the political ‘hounds’, which like the Hound of the Baskervilles, have been haunting us since Independence, creating fear, despondence, insecurity and even fatal conflicts whenever we are faced with the spectre of electing a President.  Can’t we discuss how to get rid of these hounds, including electing one person called the President, this coming year and working towards a more perfect union in our republic? Why the rigidity by Uhuru? Why the intolerance towards a discourse on political change towards a more perfect union?  Uhuru says his agenda Number One in the next five years is “to unite Kenyans”.  But how do you unite these same Kenyans without discussing with them the painful political issues that divide them?