Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei and Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito are among names in the Jubilee list of proposed parliamentary committee bosses. If approved by MPs, Shollei will head the Committee on Delegated Legislation while Metito will chair the defence committee. The line-up was issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta during a Parliamentary Group meeting at State House, Nairobi, yesterday. The meeting was chaired by Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto. MPs endorsed the proposed names, albeit with some resistance. Sources who attended the meeting told the Star Tinderet MP Julius Melly will chair the Education committee while Kieni’s Kanini Kega will head Energy. Others who will chair various committees are Sabina Chege (Health), Kimani Ichung’wa (Budget), Joseph Limo (Finance), Kareke Mbiuki (Environment), David Pkosing (Transport), Rachael Nyamai (Lands), Ali Wario (Labour), William Cheptumo (Justice and Legal Affairs), Naisula Lesuuda (Regional Integration), Paul Koinange (Security), Jeremiah Kioni (Cohesion). MPs were disgruntled with the list, forcing Uhuru and Ruto to intervene. They lamented about regional balance, saying some members featured in more than one committee while others were not consulted over their membership. Turkana South MP James Lomenen told the Star Uhuru and Ruto appealed to them to accept the lineup, saying the committees could not accommodate all MPs because they are few. “For example, none of the MPs from Pokot and Turkana counties are represented in the Defence and National Security committees, yet the region is faced with insecurity challenges,” Lomenen said. Lomenen, the proposed vice chairman of the National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity Committee, said it will be difficult for members to intervene in security issues in Pokot and Turkana without local MPs. Last week, MPs amended the Standing Orders to increase the number of parliamentary committees and their membership in the panels. They said the amendments, which will allow members to serve in two committees, will enhance representation and inclusiveness of all 349 MPs. The committees have been increased from 29 to 32. The Trade committee has been split from Finance and Planning, while the Cooperatives committee has been hived off the Agriculture and Livestock Committee. The Labour and Social Welfare committee was also split to create the Sports committee. Click here for the latest political news    