In March, security officers from police units and the Kenya Defence Forces killed more than 500 cattle in less than an hour at the Laikipia Nature and Conservancy. The animals’ crime was that their owners, pastoralist herders, had driven them into private ranches to graze without the landowners’ permission. In November, 300 cattle and camels were killed under similar circumstances in Ratia village, Laikipia North. Whatever reason given by the officers involved, the animals were not a threat to warrant such slaughter. The animals were killed in an inhumane, painful manner that prolonged their suffering before death. These actions are in contravention of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act Cap 360. Part II of the Act, Section 3 (k) on acts and omissions that amount to cruelty and penalties states that a person shall be guilty of an offence of cruelty if he hunts, kills or destroys any animal in such a manner as to cause that animal more suffering than is necessary. The action taken by the police officers and KDF in the two instances is thus illegal and tantamount to criminal offences. The other impact of these merciless killing of livestock is the socioeconomic loss suffered by the pastoralists from the Pokot and Samburu communities. The livestock owners lost their livelihoods and an asset base amounting to an estimated Sh20 million (each animal’s worth at approximately Sh25,000 ). This is a huge blow to the communities’ socioeconomic standing, where 47.9 per cent, according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, are already living below the poverty line. The killing of livestock is not the answer or a solution to the problem of pastoralist herders trespassing onto the ranches in Laikipia. The Trespass Act Cap 294 provides for the actions to be taken in situations where pastoralists trespass on private land to graze animals. Sections 9 to 12 clearly stipulate the actions the police officers are to take in such situations — these are to arrest the herders, take them to court and detain their animals. Under no circumstances are the animals to be destroyed as was done in the two events. There are other ways that could have been used to tackle the problem. The alternative action that the Laikipia government should take going forward is to seize the animals and charge the pastoralists under the Trespass Act. The livestock owners should then be made to pay for the damages caused as a result of their livestock grazing on the private ranches. The arrest and imposition of huge fines to the herders will definitely be a deterrent against trespassing on private ranches. The killing of animals in such an inhumane manner needs to come to an end. This will only exacerbate the conflict between the ranchers and pastoralists in Laikipia. Animal welfare and rights are generally disregarded in Kenya. Animals have been used and abused for political gain and in power struggles without a thought for the impact on the animals and the community at large. The authorities need to consider animal welfare during the management and resolution of political or social conflict in pastoralist communities. Executive officer, Kenya Society for the Protection and Care of Animals