Harambeee Stars will take a great step forward towards clinching a place in the last four of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup should they beat Zanzibar in the top of the table clash in Group ‘A’ this afternoon.  Stars have been impressive in their two outings so far particularly in their opening 2-0 win over Rwanda but coach Paul Put will be keen to add a ruthless striker in front of goal that was solely missing in the goalless draw against Libya.  Then, Stars curved out plenty of half chances but were undone by rash finishing by their front men. Despite being substituted at halftime in the previous game, Kariobangi Sharks’ striker Masoud Juma is once again likely to lead the attack supported by Kepha Aswani, who will probably take the place of George Odhiambo who had a rough treatment in the game against Libya.  The old adage—if it ain’t broke don’t fix it—means the defence will in all likelihood remain the same as Kenya looks to clinch one of the coveted places in the semis with a match to spare to give Put and his technical bench the opportunity to rest key players ahead of the last four next week.  A tough decision will have to be made on whether to restore Ernest Wendo back to the starting line up after he missed the Libya game or keep faith with Mathare United’s Crispin Oduor who put in a good show in his midfield role in what was his maiden appearance for the national team.  Duncan Otieno and Patilla Omoto look indispensable in the midfield triumvirate. The goalkeeping department is another area that has brought some concerns despite Stars not conceding yet.  Patrick Matasi penchant for the old miscalculation might have opened the door for Boniface Oluoch to reclaim the number one jersey as the group stages reach a pivotal stage when one slight mistake might be the difference between remaining or exiting the regional championships.   Zanzibar have six points after two matches. They came from behind to beat Tanzania 2-1 while Kenya are on four points. Zanzibar edged out Stars 3-1 in 2015’s edition in Ethiopia and their recent form has vindicated them of the label “minnows”. In 2012’s edition, Stars were forced to scratch a win from post match penalties against Zanzibar after a 2-2 draw at regular time and the bench clearly understands the threat they pose to the host. A win for Kenya will place her on the top of Group A with seven points one ahead of Zanzibar.Struggling and win-less pair of Tanzania and Rwanda play their third match at the same venue aiming to overturn their misfortunes. Libya are third with three points while Tanzania ad Rwanda sit fourth and fifth with a point to their names.