NASA is plotting a vigorous fightback to win back disaffected supporters and defuse fury triggered by the aborted swearing-in of Raila Odinga. We're not giving up the fight, don't lose faith. We're revitalising the resistance, there will be a swearing-in — that's the message. It's an uphill task, disaffection could turn to dissent. "The postponement was an anti-climax for supporters after the much-hyped swearing-in. Lack of coherent communication from NASA on the issue is complicating the matter,' analyst Martin Andati yesterday told the Star The opposition has been in the eye of the storm after it called off Raila's swearing in as the People's President in a Mombasa hotel on Sunday. NASA will form working committees to sweet talk MCAs across the country and hold rallies and gatherings to restore faith and explain the way forward. The state threatened to arrest Raila and charge him with treason if he went ahead with the swearing-in. He backed down and is now trying to climb back up. The game plan to resist President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee administration will be firmed up after a retreat by opposition chiefs. It will be the first in two months to be attended by Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Yesterday, the Star established that Raila, who flew to Kilifi on Jamhuri Day, this weekend will meet Kalonzo and co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula. Kalonzo has tending to his ailing wife, Pauline, in Germany but is expected back to attend the burial of Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze on Tuesday next week. Next week the opposition will unveil the plan that includes reaching out to supporters countrywide to restore their faith. Part of the strategy is establishing a committee working with opposition-allied MPs to hold meetings with all MCAs to explain the next steps. MCAs will then be tasked with reaching supporters at the grassroots with the same message of hope. Fearing mass disaffection and loss of momentum, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula plan a flurry of meetings with MCAs from the four counties in Western, largely elected on opposition parties. The opposition targets at least 20 counties to pass People’s Assembly motions that also state that Uhuru is not the legitimate President they do not recognise his administration. Some of the Jubilee-led counties NASA is targetting include Samburu, Narok, Wajir, Kajiado and Turkana. Last week, Mandera under Jubilee’s Ali Roba shocked the ruling party when MCAs passed the motion. Other counties that have passed the motion are Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya, Migori, Vihiga, Busia, Kakamega, Mombasa, Machakos, Kwale, Bungoma and Kilifi, Kitui and Makueni. On Sunday, NASA promised to issue a comprehensive statement on how it will revitalise its resistance movement. However, that is said to have been put on hold pending consultations. NASA hopes before Christmas to give their millions of disappointed supporters a clear picture of how it will energise its anti-Jubilee push. The opposition, while postponing the inauguration, admitted the decision crushed and angered supporters. They have openly voiced their fury, accusing NASA leadership of cowardice and giving them false hope. Many of Raila's fanatical supporters have questioned 'postponement' at the last minute when travel arrangements had been finalised. “We are asking supporters not to worry, we know how they feel but definitely our principals will communicate on the swearing-in. A major announcement will be made soon,” ODM secretary of political affairs Opiyo Wandayi told the Star yesterday. NASA plans to seal possible loopholes that could discourage supporters and send them to Jubilee, as it pushes for more People's Assemblies. Most supporters expressed outrage on social media after the cancellation of the oath-taking fete. The torrent of dismay an anger was so overwhelming that the NASA leadership reassured supporters that the great inauguration was still planned — at a later date. It was just postponed. "Supporters should not give up. I know the journey seems longer than we expected but I assure you all that we are headed to Canaan & we will finally get there,” Embakasi East MP Babu Owino posted. Click here for the latest political news