World Boxing Council (WBC) super bantamweight champion Fatuma Zarika was among sportsmen and women who benefitted from the Head of State Commendation award during a State luncheon hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi yesterday. The accolades wouldn’t have come at a better time for the boxer after she recently outshined Zambia’s Catherine Phiri to retain the WBC super bantamweight belt through unanimous points at Carnivore grounds in Nairobi. Last year, the stylish boxer dethroned Jamaican Alicia Ashley for the same title in Michigan, United States and made history as the first Kenyan to win the crown. She was the only sports person in the list of 59 individuals that were feted. Also feted was the national women’s volleyball team players also known as ‘Malkia Strikers’. The strikers recently qualified for the next year’s World Championship to be staged in Japan after finishing second behind eventual winners and hosts Cameroon during the Africa Cup of Nation. The national team had earlier won the overall title during the Africa Cup of Nation qualifiers in Nairobi last August after seeing off perennial rivals Egypt 3-0 in the final. On her post on facebook, national team assistant captain Noel Murambi said: “ What a privilege to be invited at State House to celebrate Jamhuri Day with our President..so blessed to dine with kings and queens,” her post read. The Head of State commendation is one of the presidential awards usually given out to outstanding Kenyans who selflessly render their services to the country. Recipients of these awards are selected by the National Honours and Awards Committee who work in the Office of the President. They are guided by the National Honours Act, which stipulates that a person who exhibits exemplary qualities or achievements of heroism, patriotism or leadership, those who have made exemplary contribution to the country in terms of economic, scientific, security and business among other fields should be feted. Other awards include the Order of the Grand Warrior, Distinguished Conduct Order, Distinguished Service Medal, Silver Star of Kenya and the Uhodari Medal.