Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said the people’s determination to be free cannot be stopped by the brute force of the oppressor. “The people’s fight for justice is unstoppable, no matter how long it takes or how brutal the oppressor is,” he said on Jamhuri Day at Bukhungu Stadium. Meanwhile, President Uhuru Kenyatta, in his speech at Kasarani, warned that calls for secession are a pipe dream and will remain so. The President was responding to the secession debate triggered by the August 8 disputed presidential election. NASA postponed plans to swear in its leader Raila Odinga as the ‘People’s President’ and launch the People’s Assembly on Sunday, citing extensive consultation. NASA had planned to swear in Raila on Tuesday. NASA intends to push for reforms through the People’s Assembly. Oparanya said the people are constitutionally empowered through their elected leaders and institutions, including the county government and assemblies, to control their future. “This is, however, faced with challenges posed by a few individuals opposed to the new political dispensation,” he said. Oparanya said his government will not initiate new projects before the ones started in his first term are completed. He said service units will be created under the office of the Governor to monitor projects to eliminate delays. Some flagship projects Oparanya’s administration plans to complete include the Sh6 billion Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital and the upgrading of Bukhungu Stadium at a cost of Sh1 billion. He said his government will focus on improving agriculture since it is the county’s economic mainstay. Oparanya said resources have been allocated to fund activities that can boost agriculture diversification. “We have come up with plans to improve dairy farming and increased milk production. Part of this strategy also includes the plan to build a dairy factory in Malava subcounty,” he said. A tea factory will be built in Shinyalu to ensure timely processing of the crop and access to markets to improve farmers’ earnings and also step up efforts to boost fish farming.      