A United Nations agency has discontinued support to the Kenya Police over brutality during the 2017 election. The decision to withhold the Sh800 million toward operations, equipment and modern skills training was communicated to police top brass last Wednesday during a retreat in Naivasha. The funds are channeled to the police reform basket through the UN Office on Drugs and Crime and other aid agencies of US, UK, Norway, Netherlands, Britain and Germany. Related content  : Police raped, abetted sexual assault during poll protests - Human Rights Watch But contacted by the Star yesterday, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet denied knowledge of the withdrawal. "I am not aware of it and I can't comment on something I am not aware of. Find out from those that are doing it," Boinnet told the Star on the phone. Details of the meeting attended by the top police officers and development partners remain scanty but Swedish officials, the office of the IG and the reform and internal affairs directorates were well represented. But behind the scenes, it is clear the police have not been given breathing space. After much pressure from the development partners and indications that they will not fund police activities, Boinnet wrote to the Director of Internal Affairs and Directorate of Criminal Investigations on December 11 to carry out investigations, including into the death of seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda, killed by a stray bullet in Jacaranda, Nairobi, on October 28. The police officers were also instructed to read Chapter 56 of the National Police Service Standing Orders that guide the police on their mandate during elections. Read : LSK faults police for using excessive force on protesters, abusing power The Star established that donors, the police and civil society were due to meet yesterday and today to audit the status of reforms. Ruth Nzembi, the contact person at IMLU, and the retreat organisers confirmed that all partners — including civil society, US, UK, Norway, Australia, Sweden, Britain and Netherlands — would attend. The development partners have already conducted parallel investigations into the activities that transpired during the elections. They visited morgues and hospitals to establish the cause of death and how the police handled the cases after IG Joseph Boinnet denied allegations that the police killed the deceased. “Some of the victims, including the one from Mathare, were recorded as unknown and their identities were not revealed despite the matters being in the public limelight,” a source said. They found most of those killed had bullet wounds. In their reports, they said the police top brass worked all round to cover the cause of death and hide the identity of the people killed during demonstrations. The killings, torture, rape and maiming of Kenyans during the election and the failure of the police to arrest and prosecute criminals led the donors to question how the resources channeled to police are being used. "There has been general fatigue towards supporting police reforms because, in the area of knowledge, attitude and practice, that is not evident in the way the police are behaving. We haven't seen a turnaround in the attitudes, behaviour and practice," IMLU executive director Peter Kiama told the Star. “We’ve repeatedly and publicly called on security agencies to exercise maximum restraint. We have also demanded the allegations of excessive force be investigated and perpetrators of violence brought to book,” US Embassy spokesperson Fiona Evans, who played down the reports, told the Star in a phone interview. Read : Girl, 9, shot by cops in Mathare buried in Kisii Police reform was among the major initiatives began after the 2007-08 post election violence but has been criticized as ineffective. Donors supporting the reforms say it lacks political will. "Everybody who wants to support police must carry with them four pillars — public participation, police welfare and capacity, quality service and accountability," Kiama said. Read : Six month-old baby clobbered by police during Kisumu protests dies Also read : How seven year old Mutinda was shot dead on Uhuru’s big day National Police Service Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi declined to comment. He said "those are matters related to police operations" that are outside his mandate. "You should check with the IG or ministry of Interior because they are in charge of matters of police operations. I know what [US government] is doing but that is not my area and I don't want to wade into the wrong area. "I'm fully aware of all the details but you need to check with the IG," he said, adding that one of the commissioners is engaged in a program outside the country with the US government. The UNODC's program support program started 30 months ago and covers police reforms, prosecution service, the Judiciary, access to legal defence and legal aid. Others are prison reforms and alternatives to imprisonment and restorative justice. It also includes the implementation of the county police forums and the county policing authorities. The police are also supposed to be trained on public order management (Protests and demonstrations), standing orders (Already Gazetted by the IG), human rights and they are to finalise the transformation from a force to a service. But officials at the Reform and Internal Department who spoke to the Star say the amount of withheld funds could be higher. The Internal Department deals with complains against the police just like Ipoa. However, Ipoa also deals with public complaints against the police. Ipoa has also been unable to host the annual Outstanding Police Awards because its partners — the US included — have this year decided to audit the impact of the awards over the last three cycles. The process has been public-driven but Ipoa sends its teams to winners’ workstations for fact-finding missions. “We’ve changed the methodology from awarding the police directly, but want to reach out to those who won in the last three years to see if the awards had a positive impact on them and the whole police service,” Ipoa Communications and Outreach department officer Dennis Oketch said. He denied the change was linked to the donor freeze. Two weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta applauded the Police for being “firm” during the August 8 General Election and October 26 repeat election. Related content : Cops ‘used needless force to maim and kill protesters’ The commendation came as the police received condemnation for using brute force on NASA supporters during the election period. The World Internal Security and Police Index ranked Kenya police the third-worst in the world after the DRC and Uganda. The report based the findings on four domains — capacity, process, legitimacy and outcomes. Civil society groups have reported that more than 200 people were killed and an unknown number injured. More than 36 women were raped by police, the reports said. “Many said they were raped vaginally and anally,” Human Rights Watch senior rights researcher Agnes Odhiambo said during the launch of their report 'They Were Men in Uniform: Sexual Violence against Women and Girls in Kenya’s 2017 Election.' It was released last Wednesday. Click here for the latest political news   