World champions, Helen Obiri and Consenlus Kipruto, led a stellar year for Kenyan athletes at the World Championships in London. Obiri who bagged silver at the Rio Olympics last year continued with her rich vein in form setting a Kenyan national indoor 3000m record of 8:29.46 in Karlsruhe and 8:29.41 in Birmingham. Her first international 5000m race of the outdoor season propelled her to a new level. She ran a 14:22.47 personal best to win at the IAAF Diamond League meeting in Shanghai in May and followed it with a 14:18.37 national record and world lead in her next race in Rome in June. She was undefeated over 5000m throughout the season and was in a class of her own at the IAAF World Championships in London, even with the formidable Almaz Ayana in the race. The defending champion was well beaten with Obiri grabbing the world title in 14:34.86 against the Ethiopian’s 14:40.35. Obiri went on to win in Brussels, her sixth final of the season. She also clocked the fastest time in the world this year for 3000m, winning in Monaco in 8:23.14. Kipruto continued Kenya’s rich tradition in the water and barrier event. The steeplechase has been a Kenyan preserve for as long as most athletics fans can remember. Any major medal not won by Kenya has been deemed almost as a failure. Two years ago in Beijing, they even swept the top four positions. On paper, they fielded another formidable major championship team: four from the world all-time top 12 with 8:00.12 as the slowest PB of the quartet. But in lead-up to London, the Kenyans didn’t dominate as much as they had done previously. Kipruto won at the IAAF Diamond League meeting in Rome, but only just from Morocco’s vastly improved Soufiane El Bakkali. Afterwards a foot injury started to hamper Kipruto who did not finish in Rabat where El Bakkali won in impressive fashion. In Monaco, the final tune-up before London, USA’s Evan Jager won in a world-leading 8:01.29, more than six seconds ahead of second-placed Kenyan, Jairus Birech. Kenya clearly needed Kipruto to return to top form in order for the East African nation to keep their golden championship streak alive. At the World Championships, Kipruto was the only Kenyan to advance by place. After a slow opening pace in the final, Jager shifted gears just before halfway and began to whittle down the lead group. However, he couldn’t shake off all opponents and with one lap to go Jager was unable to muster a response to Kipruto and El Bakkali. In the home straight, Kipruto demonstrated full control even though the winning margin was just 0.37. A couple of weeks later the London outcome was confirmed when the top three finished in the same order at the IAAF Diamond League final. But looking to the future, many will now be wondering whether 2017 was the beginning of a new steeplechasing era or if Kenya will reclaim their exceptional dominance. Poor race tactics however denied Kenya gold in the womens event The World Championships final was a surprising one. With favourites Ruth Jebet and Celliphine Chespol dropped well before the sprint finish, USA’s Emma Coburn and Courtney Frerichs were left fighting against Kenya’s defending champion Hyvin Kiyeng in the battle for the medals. 27-year-old Coburn, the Olympic bronze medallist, was clearly fastest in the final 150m, winning in 9:02.58 to break the North American record and championship record. 24-year-old Frerichs, competing in her first IAAF World Championships, was second in a PB of 9:03.77 while Kiyeng was third in 9:04.03. There was much drama during the race with several athletes falling down and one of the favourites, Kenyan Beatrice Chepkoech, forgetting about one of the water jumps and having to run back to continue the race. The 26-year-old eventually finished fourth and was about six seconds shy of a medal; the end result may have been quite different had it not been for that mistake.