The Prude and I
meet at a restaurant in Westlands. He orders for both of us. It’s
an African restaurant and the dishes are all traditional. I’ve
never been here before but I’ve heard good things about it. I have
some wine and he settles for water, seemingly in a good mood, which
is surprising after his cold demeanour on the phone yesterday.
 “You look
great,” he says.
 I’m not quite
sure that I do. I didn’t sleep well last night and all this
blackmailing nonsense is taking a toll on me. “Thank you,”
I say taking a sip of my wine.
 “What did you
want to see me about?” he asks.
 It’s a good
thing he let us finish our food first or I may have choked on
something. The ugali I have just consumed feels heavy in my
stomach. What a silly idea, him ordering ugali in the middle
of the day. I’ll fall asleep in the office! “Have you seen
the tape that’s all over social media?” I ask placing my wine
glass carefully back on the table.
 “No,” he
responds shaking his head. “I’m not on any of those platforms.
What tape?”
 “It’s of you
and I,” I say cocking my head. “The sex tape.”
 He gives me a
slow measured look. “Sex tape?” I nod. “The one
the watchman filmed,” I say. Why do I need to explain myself? He
was there for heaven’s sake! “Samantha, I
have no idea what you’re talking about,” he responds signaling
for the bill.
 This is not the
reaction I expected. I’m at a loss as to what to say. I get my
phone out and start scrolling through my timeline trying to find the
footage. The waiter comes with the bill and The Prude pays it. I wait
for the waiter to walk away before handing him the phone. He plays
the 30-second clip, totally expressionless.
 “All I see here
is a tape of you — in a car that can’t be identified — and a man
whose face can’t be seen,” he says handing the phone back to me.
 “B-but it’s a
tape of us,” I stammer. “At the parking lot at the club.”
 “Is it really?”
he asks. “That is quite impossible. I don’t cheat on my wife.”
 Now I’m really
in a corner, I didn’t expect denials.
 “My
recollection is that you do cheat and I’m pregnant as a
result,” I say.
 “That would be
an immaculate conception,” he responds looking amused.
 Well, that much
is true. I slept with him but coitus interruptus played a role. I
remember him driving away in a frenzy after we were caught red-handed
making love in the car by askaris in the parking lot. I had
done everything right, up until this point. I had gotten him not to
use a condom. I needed just 60 more seconds but the bloody askaris
interrupted us before he climaxed. It was like a really bad movie. We
tried to escape but The Prude — who was high as a kite — hit one of
the cars in the parking lot!!! Holy smokes! When I say hit, I don’t
mean a scrap, I mean, he somehow managed to go headlong into another
car! I hit my head on
the dashboard as the car came to a crashing halt. The askaris came
alongside us, looking angry and smug at the same time.
 “Sasa
ulikuwa ukienda wapi? Angalia hii ujinga!” one shouted.
 I couldn’t
believe this shit! I looked over at the prude who appeared to be
unharmed. The drunk ones always come out unscathed. I on the other
hand had a nasty gash on my head.
 “You don’t
remember almost killing me in your car?” I now ask.