The UN Environment Assembly will again gather in Nairobi, Kenya from 4 -
6 December under the theme, “Towards a Pollution-Free Planet”.  The Assembly,
according to its site, aims to deliver a number of tangible commitments to end
the pollution of our air, land, waterways, and oceans, and to safely manage our
chemicals and waste. A political declaration on pollution — linked to
the sustainable development goals to signal that humanity can work together to
eliminate the threat of pollution and the destruction of our planet —
resolutions adopted by the member states to address specific dimensions of
pollution and voluntary commitments by governments, private
sector entities and civil society organisations to clean up the planet are expected to be passed. Also
expected is the #BeatPollution Pledge, a collection of
individual commitments to clean up the planet. 
 The question that
follows out of these meetings is how states and other non-state actors take
seriously these commitments. Already, for example, Kenya has laws and
regulations to protect the environment or prohibit environmental pollution.  Kenya’s current environment regulating regime originates from one, the
passage of the Environmental Management and Coordination Act of 1999 and the
Constitution. The Environmental Management and Co-ordination
Act of led to the creation and establishment of National Environmental
Management Authority and provided the right to clean and healthy environment. Section
3 gives the citizens the responsibility to safeguard the environment. In
addition, this legislation provides that any review on environmental cases has
to take into full consideration public participation, traditional, cultural and
social principles, inter-generational equity, international cooperation and the
polluter pays- principle. We also have the EMCA ecosystem specific
regulations and ecosystem specific subsidiary legislation. It puts
any area deemed as environmentally significant under Nema regulations. Towards
this end, it instructs Nema to take reviews of these areas every two yerars in
conjunction with other involved players an,d also, revise the guidelines that
govern activities within such areas to conform to the Act (clean and healthy
environment for all Kenyans) There also regulations that prevent pollution in the Coastal zone and other
segments of the environment. Attention is also given to biological diversity,
wetlands, riverbanks, lakeshores, and sea shores management regulations of 2009
all that were provided to ensure sustainable development.  There is the Air, water and waste management and EIA regulations
and its subsidiary legislation.It regulates air and water quality, waste management and proper dumping as
well as excessive noise and environmental impact assessments. It also made
pollution an offense punishable by a court of law. EMCA Fossils Fuel Emissions
Control regulations of 2006 have also been used to control air pollution. The EMCA water quality regulations of 2006 makes it illegal to deposit anything
into a water source that will cause it to be polluted. It further regulates
agricultural water by ensuring standards for irrigation purposes to sustain
soil quality. The operations of Kenya Metal Refinery contravened most of these
provisions if not all. This was under the watch and in action of Nema. The Constitution
has also put in place national institutional and legal frameworks around which
environmental regulations and conservation efforts are or are to be enforced.  It is, however, one
thing to have environmental laws that adhere to the principle of sustainable
development and another to implement them and do so effectively to ensure
sustainability. That’s where the Third UNEA should focus on.   Kibii comments of current and international affairs        