Senators are set to probe numerous police killings and brutality meted out to innocent Kenyans during the election period. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka yesterday committed a motion to the Committee on Security to investigate the matter. He urged NASA to submit the list of its nominees to various committees by today to allow their composition for an expeditious probe into motions and petitions pending before the House. Read : How seven year old Mutinda was shot dead on Uhuru’s big day Senators from across the political divide condemned the killings and demanded thorough investigations to bring to book the police or criminals responsible. They said citizens’ lives are protected by the Constitution and should be safeguarded by the government. Minority leader Moses Wetang’ula said the probe should also establish “dreadlocked persons wearing police uniforms”. “From the probe, we should know how men in dreadlocks have been wearing police uniforms. The killings show the police service has been infiltrated by people with criminal minds,” he said. Wetang’ula accused Ipoa of sleeping on the job in conducting investigations and bringing to book rogue officers committing such heinous acts. Also read: Police deny killing seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda, blame criminals He added that police cannot say they are probing the killing when “all fingers are pointing at them.” “Police are paid salaries from our taxes and their services should be in line with the social needs of citizens. Silence is a language of the defeated. As leaders, we should not be silent on police killings. A life in Samburu or Mandera is as important as a life in Siaya or Kisumu,” Wetang’ula said. Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen supported a probe into the killings and assured that no life will be lost following the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said it is time Kenyans built the nation and urged politicians to desist from political activities that cause tension and unrest. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa condemned the killings. They should not be allowed to continue, as they might cause anarchy, he added. Read: Uhuru finally sworn-in as Kenya's President The legislators took issue with the killings of innocent children during the confrontations between NASA supporters and police. They also faulted police for brutality meted out to university students, particularly those from the University of Nairobi, where some were killed and scores injured by officers during protests against the arrest of former Sonu chair and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino over claims of hate speech. Click here for the latest political stories