The High Court in Kakamega has dismissed an election petition challenging the election of Vihiga Governor Wilbur Otichillo. Justice Ruth Sitati said the petition lacked merit as the petitioner, voter Hamza Kevogo, failed to prove the general claims made in the petition. “The third respondent was validly elected and his certificate was issued according to the Constitution. The Vihiga governor race was held as per the law and it is hereby upheld,” she said. “The prayers sought by the petitioner are dismissed due to lack of sufficient evidence.” Sitati termed the petition an abuse of the court process. She ordered the voter to pay Sh6 million in costs of the suit. Otichillo will receive Sh3 million and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission another Sh3 million. Sitati said the voter could not prove to the court that other governor candidates had complained of their victory having been stolen. “This petition is like a football team going for a match with zero preparation. The coach does not know his opponents and the venue of the match. It has failed to provide any evidence on why the election should be nullified,” she said. Kevogo cited massive irregularities and illegalities in the manner the election was conducted and asked the court to nullify the results and order a fresh election. He said the governor influenced IEBC Vihiga returning officer Sarah Ogaro to manipulate the results to favour him. Kevogo did not have any other witness apart from him. The voter also told the court results in forms 37A, 37B and 37C had irregularities. Otichillo and Luanda MP Chris Omulele were in court. Addressing journalists outside the court, Otichillo said the petitioner had wasted time he could have spent serving the people. “I am happy with the ruling. I am now ready to work for my people. The petitioner should pay for distracting my plans to improve the lives of my people,” Otichillo said. Omulele asked the unsuccessful governor candidates to work with him. In August, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi told Otichillo to remain hawk-eyed or else cartels will dent his administration. He said there are many cartel members who pose as bishops and businessmen, yet they are out to steal public funds. Mudavadi told Otichillo if the cartels get hold of him, he will remain hostage for a long time. He said, “People will come to you pretending to be saints, but in the actual sense, they are professional conmen who supply air. Let me tell you, my brother, be careful and don’t fall into a trap. Mudavadi said politicians involved in corruption deals during the previous county administration must face the full force of the law.