Kajiado county is set for a showdown with Makueni and Machakos over its claim to all the water from Mt Kilimanjaro. The two counties have been relying on water from the mountain. But Governor Joseph Lenku says only surplus will be sold to “outsiders”. He plans to turn off their taps. In a statement likely to send shock waves through Makueni and Machakos, he told the neighbours to wait until the “owners have had their fill”. “Our people can’t suffer while our Makueni and Machakos neighbours enjoy our resources. My people look to me for solutions to their problems — water is one of them,” Lenku said during the Jamhuri Day celebrations in Loitokitok. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua’s press secretary Mutinda Mwanzia yesterday said a statement will be issued next week. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana declined to comment yesterday. Lenku said, “We’ll consider selling surplus water. I’ve instructed Nolturesh-Loitokitok Water and Sanitation Company to disconnect supply to Makueni and Machakos and redirect it to Kajiado town, Isinya and Kitengela.” He wants the water pumped to Loitokitok and satellite towns, before Kajiado town, Isinya and later Kitengela, “where residents suffer each day”. Kitengela town has been depending on Ndakaini water sold by the Export Processing Zone in Athi River. For three years, the town has had an acute water shortage and residents rely on salty water from boreholes. In a separate interview on Tuesday, Lenku said Kajiado has borne the brunt of human-wildlife conflicts, as water gets increasingly scarce. “Wild animals fight with people over water and yet the bulk of the water is benefitting outsiders. We must have misplaced our priorities as leaders. This is unacceptable,” Lenku said. He said livestock is the mainstay of the Maasai. Without it, they face life-threatening problems, he said. “We are a water-scarce county. Our people face serious water shortages, while the little we have from boreholes is too salty for everyday use. Therefore, a steady water supply is my utmost priority,” Lenku said in Loitokitok. He said Nolturesh water station in Sultan Hamud gets county water. On July 13, Konza Technopolis announced that it had agreed with Nolturesh Water Company to supply it two million litres of water daily. “That’s our water. We can’t be a source of water to other counties, while we remain thirsty and dry day in day out. It can’t and will not work that way under my leadership. We must change it — no matter what,” Lenku told an emotional crowd. He said he visited Nolturesh water pipeline, talked with Tanathi Water Company officials and agreed with them that Kajiado should be supplied with water first. “This is not a favour they are doing us. It is our water. We should be supplied first,” Lenku said. “We are working closely with this company on a cost-sharing plan to have the water pumped to Kajiado. We have made initial plans to ensure this happens.” The county chief said plans are underway to establish additional water points and pipelines from the Ngong Hills and the Oldonyo Orok Hills and to capture rain runoff from major seasonal rivers. “Our overall goal is to make supply and access sustainable, give our people’s time to engage in other activities instead of looking for water, improve their health and wellbeing and protect our cattle against drought,” he said. Click here for the latest political news