Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will fly back to Germany less than 24 hours after his arrival to attend the burial of late confidant Francis Nyenze. The NASA co-principal - who has been in Germany tending to his sick wife, Pauline– will land from Berlin this morning and then straightaway fly directly to Kitui for the funeral. President Uhuru Kenyatta, NASA Principals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula are among leaders expected to attend the burial ceremony of the former minority leader. More on this : [VIDEO] Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze is dead After the burial, the Wiper leader -according to a top party official– will have consultative meeting with opposition co-principals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula before flying back to Germany on Wednesday. “He (Kalonzo) will fly back on Wednesday. I think he is only coming for the burial of late Nyenze,” said senior Wiper party official. Kalonzo's absence has stalled a number of activities in the opposition coalition which has been rocked by teething problems ranging from squabbles over house leadership to the confusion that has marred the Raila's swearing-in forcing its indefinite postponement. NASA was forced to postpone its planned swearing in of Raila and the major reason cited by Raila's advisor Salim Lone was the absence of the Wiper boss. Wiper Party had also requested the event delayed until Kalonzo's return.. “With Kalonzo Musyoka, who would have been sworn in as Deputy President, out of the country, and with his Wiper Party asking that the swearing-in be delayed until his return, postponement was the only option that existed,” said Lone on December 8. Read more : NASA postpones Raila's swearing - in Revelations of Kalonzo flying back tomorrow thins chances of Raila taking oath anytime before the year ends and the coalition will again have to contend with another round of discontent among its millions of supporters. Last week NASA's CEO Norman Magaya was quoted confirming the swearing-in will take place before the year ends. “It certainly cannot go beyond 2017, and so we are talking of this happening within the next 10 days or so. We have to end the culture of electoral impunity once and for all and in this year,” Magaya was quoted as saying. State has already warned against NASA plans top swear Raila claiming the action is treasonous and only punishable by death. Click here for the latest political news 