Solomon Komen has never known lunch since he became head teacher of Kasore Primary School in 2005. With his dry lips, he speaks in low tones when the media visited the school, which has 225 pupils in primary and preschool classes. Komen said the school also faces acute shortage of water, as it lacks pipes to provide clean drinking water. The school is located 20km from county headquarters Kabarnet town, about 30min-drive away When the bell rings for lunch, the pupils and their teachers seem reluctant to heed it. From a distance, some pupils, especially the little ones, are yawning, grinding their teeth and stretching their hands, while lazily dragging their feet down the rocky stairs as they loiter around the school veranda. “We don’t remember the last time food was cooked in our school kitchen,” Komen said, adding that they sometimes receive foodstuff from donors. Instead of heading home for lunch, the pupils play in the field to pass time. Not only are their homes too far, most parents are poor peasant farmers who can only manage a single meal a day. Class eight candidate Shaline Jebichii said she could not trek over 8km home to take lunch and come back on time to catch up with the afternoon lessons. “So I normally take my breakfast in the morning and then I stay in school the whole day without food,” Jebichii said. Apart from severe hunger, she has been thirsty since morning as she lacks a place to find any water in the school compound. “My pupils and fellow teachers have learned to survive without lunch,” Komen said. COOKING BAN Staff have been banned from cooking food in the school compound, lest they torture and tempt the unfed pupils. “If they cook, then the hungry children who don’t have a meal to take for lunch will suffer with the smell yet we cannot be able to feed the entire school population, so we decided all of us stay without food the all day,” Komen said. He said the children study in dusty open classrooms, exposing them to common cold and jiggers. “They cannot concentrate in their learning as they are interrupted by moving objects they see through the hollow pavements in the open walls of their classes. Some of them at times find easy routes to sneak out and then come back through the same holes without the teacher noticing,” he said. He said the county leadership is aware of the dire situation, saying former MP Sammy Mwaita had promised to allocate more CDF fund to complete the remaining classrooms. “We hope the newly-elected MP Joshua Kandie will implement his promises to improve the school structures,” Komen said, adding that the school has already been classified among the worst underdeveloped schools in the constituency. He said Governor Stanley Kiptis and county director of education Willie Machocho are also aware of the dilapidated state of the school. Curriculum support officer Rodah Kiplagat promised to lobby the government to include the institution among schools in ASAL areas benefiting from the feeding programme. The school cannot hold rainwater as it is located in a sloppy terrain. The water flows downhill to Meseru river, 5km away. “We don’t even have a single water tank on the school to trap the rainwater or a water pipe connecting the school. So when a child or a teacher feels thirsty, it forces one of us either to rush to borrow a cup of water from a nearby home or run down to the river to fetch some water, which amounts to time wasting,” Komen said. SCHOOL HISTORY The school was established in 1978 with the ‘harambee’ spirit under the regime of President Daniel Arap Moi, former legislator for Baringo Central constituency. After Mzee Moi retired from politics in 2002, his son Gideon Moi took over as the area MP until Sammy Mwaita thrashed him in 2007, and then Kandie took over after defeating Mwaita in the August 8 general election. To date, Komen said “our pupils in class one to four are still studying in the same worn-out classrooms”. He thanked the CDF, county government and World Vision International for raising funds to build four permanent classes, but said more still needs to be done. Parent Leah Cherop, 70, said all her children studied in the school. “My firstborn did his KCPE in 1992 and now I still have my grandchildren learning here,” she said. Cherop said residents voted out Mwaita and replaced him with Kandie in the hope that he will do something to improve school facilities. Resident Benjamin Kipkeiyo, 65, said fund drives organised to improve the school have failed over the years due to poverty among parents. “The parents have no money to buy the farm produce like millet, sorghum and honey being brought to the fund drives by their fellow farmers,” he said. He adds that the poor parents cannot even feed their own children, so “how can they manage to raise money to build a school?” Alumna Lydia Maiyo said residents have watched the school being run down by leaders since she was a pupil in 1992 to 1999. She said recently, alumni to raise funds to renovate the school. “We already have Sh400,000 in the bank account ready to commence construction of one classroom, but we need more cash to refurbish the entire school to meet the standards of other quality schools in the country,” Maiyo said. Komen said the school has the potential to attract more pupils, but due to its condition, some parents have decided to take their children to neighbouring schools like Sesya and Kapkomoi. He said the school’s poor KCPE performances have deteriorated. It was ranked position seven out of 13 schools in Chap Chap zone last year, compared to position 3 in 2015, having topped the zone in 2006. “Although we did badly last year, we managed to send 15 candidates to secondary school out of 21,” Komen said. He blamed rampant truancy on illness among pupils, hunger and early pregnancy among girls. “Sometimes stress has driven most pupils to engage in drugs, alcohol and unprotected sex, leading to unwanted pregnancies,” he said. He called upon the government, friends and well-wishers to chip in to help develop the school. This would ensure pupils have a good learning environment and prevent more dropouts.