Kenya’s Ismael Changawa and Ibrahim Kibet will clash in the semi-finals of the ongoing Karen Open tournament tomorrow Kenya’s top seeded player Changawa saw off Ugandan Simon Ayella 6-2, 6-1 to book a date with his compatriot Kibet, who narrowly beat David Oringa of Uganda 6-4 and 7-5. Changawa made some light work of his opponent, breaking his serve for an early lead. During his turn to serve, the left-handed Kenyan registered an easy game before bagging the third and fourth game to lead 4-0. He dropped the fifth game to his opponent but was quick to make amends in the sixth for a 5-1 lead. Ayella grabbed one more game to reduce the deficit to 5-2 but Changawa closed out the set by winning the eighth game. In the second set, Changawa showed no mercy for the Ugandan, dropping a single game hence sailed to the final four. After learning of Kibet’s win and their semi final date, Changawa said: “It’s really going to be a tough one and a tricky one. Kibet is strong and has awesome skills but I believe I will be solid to handle him. In today’s match, my plan was to qualify to the semis and the match wasn’t tough as expected. He had strong serves but I managed to return them and capitalised on his mistakes for points.” Kibet overpowered Oringa 6-4, 7-5 to advance to the last four. In the girls category, Shufaa Changawa and Angella Okutoyi bowed out to Elodie Ranaivo of Madagascar and Aisha Niyonkuru of Rwanda respectively. Shufaa succumbed to Ranaivo 6-1, 6-2 to shelve her ambition of joining his brother Ismael in the semis. Rwanda’s Niyonkuru served Angela Okutoyi with a perfect revenge after the latter eliminated the Rwandese in the recently concluded ITF Junior circuit in the quarters of the second leg. Niyonkuru came from aset down to win 6-7, 6-3, 7-5 and will face Ranaivo in the semis. Today, the tournament’s top seeded player Duncan Mugabe of Uganda will play Kevin Cheruiyot in the remaining men’s quarters while Sheil Kotecha will lock horns with Burundi’s Abdoul Shakour Kabuka in the other quarter. In the girls’ category Kenya, will aim to produce a player in the semis when Sneha Kotecha entertain Burundi’s Hoziane Kitambala as Judith Nkatha take on Gabon’s Celestine Avomo Ella. Niyonkuru recovered from a set down to edge Okutoyi 6-7,6-3 and 7-5 to set advance.