I’m reeling the prude in. Men love to be lauded for prowess. Real or imagined. “You are soooo big. And you filled me up completely. I felt you on my cervix, you beast.” He leans in towards me and I continue. “I came twice.”  “Did you?” he asks.  I smile, pouting. “It was so hot. No man has ever done that to me. In fact…” I lean forward and stroke his arm. “I wish we could do it again, right here.”  We are at a restaurant in Westlands, having just concluded our meal. He was being cold and aloof earlier, but now he’s being susceptible to my charms. Flattery will get you everywhere with a man.  “Here? Now?” he asks with a drawl.  “Why not?” I ask with a smile. Why not, indeed. It won’t be the first time. Who can forget that night with Frank? He proposed to me and we took the celebration to the ladies room. He put down the toilet cover and sat down unzipping his trousers as the same time. We were in a restaurant in mother-freaking Junction! Ha ha. I straddled him. He didn’t even bother removing my panties and just pushed them to the side. We heard the toilet next door flush and the woman exited. We paused, breathing deeply. We could hear her washing her hands. She turned on the drier and we took advantage of the noise to continue making love. It was MAD. CRAZY. WONDERFUL. INSANE! AWESOME!  Now the thing about doing it in a public place is that for the guy, climax is guaranteed. For the girl, though, not so much so. There’s zero foreplay. You don’t even kiss, for heaven’s sake. You’re in a loo — romance doesn’t count in a place where people take dumps. It’s cramped, it’s hurried and usually the whole thing is over before it starts. The danger of getting caught can get you there quickly but it’s unlikely. It’s literally over in two minutes. So it’s good for the guy but for the girl… Well, let’s just say, you get bragging rights for joining the club and making your man your slave for life. And right now, I need the prude to be my slave.  “Do you remember what happened the last time we made a public spectacle of ourselves?” he asks.  I look at my phone; it’s still recording our conversation.  “Oh, you remember now?” I ask with a slight smile.  “Who could forget?” he asks.  “What happened after I left?” I ask.  “I paid off the watchmen. The whole thing was dismissed as an accident,” he tells me. “You had left, so it was fine.” The prude has fully incriminated himself. Silly man. How do you catch a monkey? You cut a hole in a gourd. It’s a small hole, just big enough to put a hand through it. The empty hand can go in and out of the gourd. However, the hand will be trapped if it has a fist full of nuts or whatever you have put in there, to trap the monkey. The interesting thing is that even though the monkey can let go of the object, greed won’t allow it. If they would only surrender what they were holding onto, they would be free. The same is true of the prude. I could not prove it was him on the sex tape until I offered him a shiny object in a gourd: Me. Now he has fallen into a trap that he could have easily walked away from. And I have it all on tape.   