Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya’s solid development record and down to earth personality has endeared him residents. His fame rose after defecting from ODM to Jubilee. Although Mvurya holds considerable sway in the Coast region, his critics feel his defection was a big blunder. They’ve termed him a betrayer and think he does not deserve the praises heaped on him. ODM activists Hamisi Rachuo and Hassan Chitembe condemned the governor for joining Jubilee.  Some ODM supporters regret that Mvurya retained his seat. They would have preferred Kwale speaker Sammy Ruwa to get the position.  “Ruwa is humble. Kwale would have made great strides if he was elected governor because he had good investment plans and good plans for the youth,” Bakari Matano said. Mvurya has failed to get investment, he is more focused on the future than the present, he said.  Matano said the governor failed to advertise the tourism sector and under utilised county resources. But many Kwale residents praised Mvurya for transforming the county. During campaigns for the August 8 General Election, while other aspirants were making promises to voters, Mvurya was inspecting the projects he implemented. He told voters to pick leaders wisely, based on what they have done.  “When you vote for Mvurya, you vote for development. You can see what my government did in the first term. Our children have a bursary fund for their education,” Mvurya said during a campaign rally in Pemba. At another rally in Mafisini in October, Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said Jubilee chose to work with Mvurya because of his solid record. He has the people’s interests at heart. “The same way you love your governor for his good work, that is the same way the President chose to work with him,” Kiunjuri said.  As Mvurya marks 100 days in office since his reelection, the Kwale county government has employed five new doctors and 20 nurses to boost health services. Communication director Daniel Nyasy said, Mvurya has key programmes in health, education and enterprise to transform people’s lives. “The governor created a programme unit, under his supervision, which reports on ongoing projects daily,” he said. Nyasy said an Intensive Care unit is now operational in Msambweni Referral Hospital. A state of the art maternity wing with bed capacity of 65, two theaters, and an outpatient wing has been constructed. This will held reduce infant mortality in Kwale. A renal facility and a blood bank have also been set up at Msambweni Referral Hospital. Kwale Health chief officer Kishindo Mwaleso said during World AIDs Day celebrations, residents are getting treatment at a subsidised cost.  Mvurya opened a methadone facility at Kombani, a dispensary and a rehabilitation centre for rehabilitating drug addicts free of charge. Education has been at the centre of his transformative agenda. He allocated Sh400 million to the docket this financial year.  “A hundred youth from the four sub counties have been trained in entrepreneurial skills. They were assisted to form companies,” Nyasy said.  He said another milestone is connecting water at Marere spring. The project supplies more than 500,000 people in Mkongani ward and its environs.  During the anti-IEBC demonstrations in many NASA strongholds, Kwale remained calm.          