Deputy President William Ruto has said county and national governments are interdependent and must work harmoniously for the sake of Kenyans. He said even though the law provides a clear distinction on the roles of the two governments, the two must work together for the common good of the people. Speaking on Saturday during the closure of the Council of Governors meeting held at the Diani Reef Beach Hotel, Kwale County, the DP said it is the expectation of all Kenyans that the two levels of government establish a mutual relationship for the sake of development. “It is the expectations of all Kenyans that we work together if the benefits of devolution in terms of developments have to be realized,” Ruto said. Read: Stop activist mentality and work, Ruto tells governors Ruto dismissed a notion by some leaders that the Jubilee Administration was frustrating devolution. “We are great believers in devolution and we have done what no other government could have done in supporting devolution,” Ruto said. He said some teething problems in the implementation of devolution would not be solved through shouting matches but in discussions and meetings. The DP said the government was open to dialogue in addressing challenges that might hinder the success of devolution. “As national government we want to make it clear that we are ready to work with the county governments in serving the people of Kenya.” The Deputy President asked county governments to ensure they are competitive for investments. He said it was ideal for the county governments to exploit their potential to the maximum to attract investments. “As county governments we must be at the forefront to ensure we are business friendly to attract investments which will pave way for developments.” He said government’s focus was on food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and the attainment of the universal healthcare. Ruto said the government will use Sh2 billion as a conditional grand to counties for the modernization and equipping of vocational training centers across the country. He said the centres will provide the much needed human capital in the field of technology. “This move is aimed at attaining between 150,000 to 170,000 graduands with skills and competencies from such vocational training centers,” Ruto said. Chairman of COG Josephat Nanok said he would further cement the relations between the national and county government for improved service delivery. “I want to assure you of my commitment to close working relations with the national government for the single reason of improving service delivery to our people,” Nanok said. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru who was elected deputy COG said efforts must be made to ensure people feel the impact of devolution at the grassroots. Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Water and Irrigation) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution) were also present. Read: 2022 politics at play in CoG choice of chairman Click here for the latest political news  