Sharing a meal of chapati and chicken stew during Christmas and going to church to ‘cross over’ to the next year, or getting together with friends on December 25 then ushering in the New Year in a club ‘turning up’ — how different generations spend the festive season varies. Those born in the 60s might tell you about the good old days, when there were few road crashes and Christmas was all about travelling upcountry. The millennials, on the other hand, might have a different idea of what the season is all about. We talked to two families about how Christmas celebrations have evolved through the decades.   THE GITONGAS For Nancy Gitonga, 50, the whole of December is a celebration, because two of her three children have their birthdays during the month. Nancy is the regional coordinator of the East African Women in Business Platform. Her husband is a judge. Nancy says flashing back to the 90s and comparing how her family spends Christmas these days, she is more relaxed. “In the 90s, we had two little kids and we travelled upcountry every Christmas. I would go there and do nothing else but cook for the whole village. I never rested, not even a single day. By the 2000s, that changed and we started travelling to resort hotels and villas as the children grew, so that they could experience that phase of life. I realised I needed time to rest and play with my children.” Things have changed in the Gitonga household now. “Our children are all grown up. The two girls are young adults and the young man is a teenager. Our children now give us the plan of action, how we should spend our Christmas. They identify places we should visit, what should be cooked because they do it themselves, while my husband and I seat and enjoy every moment. If it is a road trip we are taking, they do the driving. If it is shopping, they do the shopping. If it is grilling or baking, they do it perfectly. Our son loves cleaning the compound, the dogs and watering the plants.”   SIGNIFICANCE OF CHRISTMAS “Christmas to me is a celebration season with my inner family, which includes my three children and my husband. For us, Christmas is about showing love and sharing what we have with our neighbours, our larger extended family, our staff and with the less fortunate members of the community. It is a season when we take time to pray and reflect on what the Lord has done for us, and giving thanks for us gives us the most satisfaction,” Nancy says. These days, the Gitongas usually spend Christmas in their Nairobi home. “We do everything together. From going to church, cleaning, cooking, shopping, and making fun of each other. We like barbecues, but mostly, we go out to sample food in various specialty restaurants in town.”   FONDEST MEMORIES Nancy says it is when her children were younger and the family spent weeks in Mombasa or Malindi, just for the kids to swim in the ocean. As for meal, the Gitongas like a mixture of things. Nancy says, “My children and hubby love Japanese sushi, barbecued chicken and fish, but I love Italian food… Any time.” As for the political situation in the 90s vs the 2000s, Nancy says, “Things were a bit calmer.” New Year's is all about thanksgiving in the Gitonga home. “That is when we do our year’s work plan as a family, and we always lift it up to God for His guidance through the plan.”   THE MUTEROS Joy Mutero, 55, a journalist, and Dr Clifford Mutero, 62, an entomologist, have experienced Christmas in different countries, and they take us through Christmas through the decades. Joy is a writer and publisher. Clifford is also a writer. Joy says, “Christmas to me is an opportunity to focus on the mercy of God, who was born into our world and experienced life like us, ultimately yielding his life as a perfect atonement for our sin. Forgiveness and inner transformation are the benefits available to all who recognise and acknowledge this free but very costly gift we are all offered. This is the true meaning of Christmas: the coming of the Christ.” The Muteros spend Christmas Day at their home in Nairobi. “This has been our preference for many years. We often invite a few people over for a meal that I typically prepare. We like the peace and quiet of our private family environment,” Joy says. Clifford says, “Nairobi is relatively quiet at the time, so we have the peace and quiet that we crave for most of the working year.” Joy’s most memorable Christmas dates back to her childhood years in the sixties. “The family that lived next door to us had a towering (in my eyes) pine tree in their garden, which they had decorated with loads of lights in every imaginable colour. On Christmas Eve, they invited us children, along with other neighbours, to join them in singing carols around that tree. It was magical; all those lights against the night sky, and the sweet voices singing ‘Good King Wenceslas looked out on the Feast of Steven…’ and ‘Silent Night, Holy Night’. We had been allowed the rare privilege of staying up late that night as we waited in a fever of anticipation for the longed-for Christmas Day. Such are the memories that stick in a child’s mind.”   FONDEST MEMORIES For Clifford, these include chapatis and carols. “It is the anticipation of chapatis and singing of Christmas carols in my village when I was about seven years old. A group of people would move from house to house with a lantern on Christmas night, singing the carols in vernacular and collecting whatever villagers wanted to contribute towards the work of the church. In the morning, we would wear our Sunday best as we looked forward to a sumptuous lunch of chapati and beef stew.” As for Christmas meals, Clifford enjoys chicken cooked in a sauce of lemon, ginger and coriander, rice with raisins, dry-fried lamb and any freshly cooked green vegetables. “We also braise lamb and sausages.” Joy explains how Christmas celebrations have evolved through the decades: “As young professionals in the 90s, we were as excitable as most young families are. We were keen to make the most of the Christmas break and would often travel to the Coast for a few days for a change of scene. Eventually, we settled down to the realisation that travelling over Christmas is rather stressful, not to mention ridiculously over-priced. So we started the tradition of quiet family Christmases, particularly since we were not in Kenya in the 2000s and liked the feeling of spending ‘just us’ time.”   HOW IT'S CHANGED Clifford reminisces about Christmas during the 90s and early 2000s. “It was more fun since our daughters were young and excitedly looked forward to their Christmas gifts and decorations in our house. Some of the excitement got lost after our daughters discovered it was actually mum and dad who had placed the gifts by the Christmas tree and not Father Christmas. It is, however, still a great time for us to come together as a family.” When it comes to the political situation during December, Joy says, “December has usually been a pretty mellow season in Kenya, except when there is an election.” Clifford says, “Political rhetoric and activities were much less during the 90s and early 2000s. We also did not have the so-called political analysts jostling for TV prime viewing time all day long. Instead, we had more meaningful programmes like Ring Us Up, which was for charity, during the eighties and nineties.” New Year is a time for prayer in the Mutero home. Clifford adds, “I am an early sleeper and at times I turn the year in bed, dreaming in colour.”   THE MILLENNIAL’S EXPERIENCE Waihiga Mutero, 25, one of the Mutero daughters, has experienced Christmas differently, being a millennial. “Christmas to me was always a time for gifts and free time, especially as a child. Then when we moved to South Africa, I remember Christmas as being lonely. The suburbs would get deserted and quiet. Everyone would go home to their families or travel the world, and for my family and I, we would often stay behind and keep to one another. It was hard initially, but I adjusted to it. Now, Christmas is a time of deep reflection and celebrating what Jesus did for us all.” Waihiga’s fondest Christmas memory was spending Christmas with her cousins. “Every two years, I would come back to Kenya to visit, and I would end up staying and spending Christmas with my aunty, uncle and cousins at their home. Waking up to the smell of bacon, sausages, pancakes and freshly squeezed passion fruit juice was always fun. The house was always full of life, then the anticipation I often felt as I went to take a peak under the Christmas tree, and my delight to find that I had not been left out of the gift-giving was always so cool.” For Waihiga, her mother’s signature broccoli soup and garlic bread as a starter and her father’s nyama choma are her Christmas favourites. Waihiga remembers Christmas when she was under the age of nine as being a big family affair. “Huge parties, lots of cousins and celebrating. When we moved to South Africa, initially it was very strange. Christmas became a lonely and low-key day. Everyone was gone. But I got used to that and I started to appreciate it. It taught me the real reason as to what Christmas Day is. It has put off all the pressure of living outside my means, breaking the bank to be seen travelling at exotic locations ‘just because it is Christmas’, then suffering all through January. “So Christmas now, is, dare I say, boring? It is low-key but meaningful, with great, great food as always, thanks to my mum.” When it comes to New Year's, Waihiga says, “I have always wanted to jump into the New Year in style or in a big way, but that has never happened. I thought clubbing into the New Year would be fun, but it is not. When I was younger, we would normally ‘jump’ into the New Year in church then go home. This will God willingly be my first sober Christmas and New Year in about seven years. Sober from alcohol. I must say Christmas Day is not a problem to me, it is the days after Christmas leading to New Year's and New Year's itself. Christmas is a family day, however. After that, something in the air changes and everyone seems to be in ‘turn-up’ mode. I plan to spend Christmas with my folks and New Year's in an AA meeting. I think that will be a great way to begin the year. Fresh. Rejuvenated. And happy to see 2018 alive and sober.” How do you intend to spend Christmas and what will be on your plate? Have a Merry Christmas and remember to spread love.