The Ministry of Education has been slapped with a Sh150 million bill payable to a supplier of school equipment.  High Court judge Justice Hedwing Ongu'di held on Monday that the ministry was liable for breach of a 2007 contract with Vulcan Lab Equipment. The judge said the ministry, through the School Equipment Production Unit, approached the supplier for a quotation which included prices and conditions for supplying science equipment. The items were to be distributed to secondary schools urgently. Evidence by the company's managing director Vishal Kacha, the court said, showed the deal was reached and that documents were approved and stamped. The company, through lawyer Mogere Guto, said it supplied the equipment with a pro-forma invoice that was received and stamped. "The contract was for the supply of the equipment at Sh226,772, 450," the lawyer said, noting the ministry was to pay 33 per cent of the figure upon delivery of 50 per cent of the goods. He said the ministry issued a cheque of Sh75,086,880 and was to label the equipment to prevent pilferage and misplacement upon delivery to schools. Guto said when the MD banked the cheque,  he travelled to India to secure the goods. But while away, the EACC filed an application at Kibera Law Courts and obtained an order that froze the company's bank account. Despite the development, the MD imported the goods valued at Sh95,279,202 but upon delivery, the ministry rejected them saying EACC was investigating the contract. Guto told the judge the goods could not be received before clearance by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. But he noted that failure to honour the contract was illegal, unjustified and blatant breach of contract on the part of the ministry. The lawyer pointed out that the equipment was later sold by Express Kenya which needed to recover storage fees. Guto added the ministry did not inform the supplier that the contract had been cancelled yet it used its own money to acquire the goods following the court order. The judge ruled in favour of the supplier, saying  Sh94,279,202 was for the value of the goods and that Sh50 million should be paid for break of contract and Sh5 million for accrued insurance premiums.  The ministry currently headed by Fred Matiang'i will also meet the cost of the suit. Click here for the latest political news