Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe has vowed to advocate for the repeal of 2007 employment act in order to create room for unemployed youth in Nairobi. The Deputy Governor was speaking on Saturday at Harambee Estate, Makadara Constituency where he held a meeting with Harambee Residents Association and heard about the challenges facing them. According to Igathe, unemployment in the mature population (above 40yrs) is 25%. The youth who make up 80% of the population are afflicted with 70% unemployment. Majority of youths miss on job opportunities due to lack of experience hence do not get a chance in passing on interviews. "This ticking time bomb can be resolved by creating decent job and entrepreneurial opportunities, and fixing the education decay in Nairobi. Unemployment is at 70% for people below 40yrs and 25% for those above 40yrs. We need to give young people a chance to work and earn. Who will buy your products if 70% of young people are jobless?" he said. He added by saying,"By its very definition, experience is practical contact with & observation of facts or events. When we insist young people must have experience before we hire them, where will they get this? I got experience when someone gave me a chance. Let’s do the same for our youth." "Drugs is an example of what joblessness has done to our youth. They do not get decent jobs since positions have been filled by older unproductive people. I will keep advocating for us to repeal the 2007 employment act to create room for them. We will lead by example at NCCG," said Igathe Land grabbing, insecurity, uncontrolled development were some of the major issues raised by the Harambee Residents Association in the meeting. He also pointed out the need to have public infrastructure such as roads and markets for the residents. "The last time a clean up was done in Harambee estate with support from NCC was in 2015. We must have another clean up soon with Governor Mike Sonko and ensure that we maintain a clean environment & not a one-off activity," Igathe said. In attendance was CEC for Lands, Urban Renewal & Housing Lands Peter Njuguna, who pledged to act on the issue of land grabbing and make Harambee Estate more hospitable. Igathe handed over the Harambee Estate dossier to CEC for Lands, Urban Renewal & Housing Peter Njuguna which contains information on all NCC land & properties. The Deputy Governor highlighted that NCCG will work on the uncontrolled developments which cause a depreciation of the value of the neighboring properties which create hazards to the residents. Both Igathe and Njuguna pledged to work together to return Harambee to its lost glory. Tree planting which took place signified a new beginning to Harembee residents where Igathe told area residents that together with the Governor they will provide resources to ensure that the issues of Harambee will be worked upon.