A game plan orchestrated by Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter to grasp the chair position of the Labour and Social Welfare Committee did not go down well with Deputy President William Ruto. Keter contested against Ali Wario (Bura), who had been fronted by Jubilee Party’s top leadership. Keter tactfully convinced Opposition MPs in the committee to vote for him and promised to back their candidate – Ford Kenya’s Catherine Wambilianga (Bungoma) – for the vice chair position. Wambilianga floored Jubilee’s Joyce Korir (Bomet). But Keter, who has in the past been a critic of the Jubilee administration, was later de-whipped from the committee. Corridors learned that Ruto was angered by Keter’s election, prompting the disciplinary measure. ***** An outgoing county secretary in a Northern county has whispered to confidants that it is just a matter of time before he reaps where he sowed. According to those in the know, the man has been bragging around in city hotels that he gave out Sh5 million to a lady of influence in the county. He has told his friends that the position is his for the taking and the advertisement to fill the vacancy is a mere PR gimmick. ***** Teachers are pushing Knut officials to announce street protests in January next year following a government directive that all teachers should not work in their home counties. Defiant teachers argue that the directive is unconstitutional. But, our mole whispers, “Teachers had not planned to work away from home. They fear if they work away from their home counties, expenses will go up and they will also be forced to pay rent.” ***** Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i can throw everyone into disarray, anxiety or excitement could be true. The CS -also the acting Interior CS -stole the show during a press briefing when he announced plans to deregister all driving schools following multiple accidents in the country that have left more than 180 people dead this month alone. The press conference had been called by various agencies, ministries and other stakeholders. The straight-shooting CS was on Thursday at it again, after he announced the KCSE results, only making Kenyans aware of the release a few minutes to the event he presided over at Nairobi School. On the same date, Matiang’i was to also presiding over another meeting with another top official who claimed to have learnt a few minutes to the announcement that Matiang’i would not be available. The CS has left everyone, including his colleagues, guessing what the next event he will preside over will be.  