IEBC has turned its focus to strategic plans, team building and by-elections following Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration, vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha has said. Nkatha siad this on Sunday amid the Opposition's calls for fresh elections in February. The commissioner noted the lengthy process that resulted the repeat vote on October 26, and that the swearing-in of Uhuru and DP William Ruto marked the end of the elections period. "We have to deal with the organisation and many other things. We are working on our strategic plan, staff and all by-elections that are going to come.  "As far as IEBC is concerned, elections are behind us." NASA leader Raila Odinga has been calling for fresh elections since the re-run was a "sham" and is also planning he and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's swearing-in. The ceremony was to take place on Tuesday - Jamhuri Day - but NASA postponed it for various reasons. Read: Sorry, Raila swearing-in ‘postponed’ Also read: Hold new presidential poll on Feb 9 – NASA Raila has been pushing for reforms in the commission since the results of the August 8 general election were annulled by the Supreme Court over illegalities and irregularities. He said he was ready for talks but in his response, Uhuru said there is no room for this and that dialogues can only take place in 2022 when Ruto is expected to vie for President. Uhuru said he is not interested in endless political talk as Kenyans want development. Read: I'm done talking about politics, wait for Ruto in 2022, Uhuru tells Raila Nkatha spoke at Nchuare in North Imenti where she and her brother Patrick Bucha raised more than Sh400,000 for a local football club. The commissioner said she will help at least 46 children in the area to go to school and that her ultimate goal is to reach 120. She also announced community projects for 600 women living with fistula to get treated. Nkatha urged youths to make sacrifices while nurturing their talents and pursuing their dreams. "Use what God has given you to turn your fortunes. If someone teaches you how to fish, they have given you food for life. You can give your best when it comes to your talents. Focus on what can help you become a better person in future," she told them. Click here for the latest political news