The joint Parliamentary Select Committee will on Tuesday receive the names of 27 EALA nominees for vetting. House clerks Michael Sialai (National Assembly) and Jeremiah Nyegenye (Senate) scrutinised the applications before giving the candidates provisional nomination certificates.  Sialai and Nyegenye, who are the presiding officers, will submit the names to the committee which is expected to table its report on the floor of the House on Friday.  Next Monday, the officers will gazette the election date which is Wednesday.  Jubilee Party, which enjoys numerical strength in the two Houses, will front only five individuals.  National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and his Senate counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen presented a list of 15 names before the presiding officers.  NASA's list of 12 nominees was presented to the officers by National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi and his Senate counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. The coalition has four slots at the Arusha-based assembly.  Also read: MP Pamela Odhiambo shuts down critics over NASA EALA nominees Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga's brother, Oburu Oginga, appeared first in the list and was followed by Kalonzo Musyoka's son Kennedy.  NASA CEO Norman Magaya, former MPs Fatuma Ibrahim (Wajir), Abdikadir Aden (Balambala) and former EALA MP Abubakar Zain are also in the list.  Others considered by the Opposition were Jane Marwa, Beth Mutunga, Loy Mwaviala, Angela Munyasya, Justus Mochoge and Winfred Mutua.  Former MPs trounced in the August 8 general election  - Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East), Wanjiku Muhia (Nyandarua), Simon Mbugua (Kamukunji), Abdulaziz Ali Farah (Mandera East) and Adan Noor (Mandera North) - were considered by Jubilee. Jubilee also fronted former National Assembly clerk Justin Bundi, former CIC chair Charles Nyachae and Bishop Jackson Kosgei from Baringo.  The ruling party also considered Florence Sergon (Baringo), Irene Cherop (Elgeyo Marakwet), Julie Njeri (Nyandarua), Joe Muriithi (Nyeri), Dorice Donya (Kisii), Eunice Wanjiru (Trans Nzoia) and former Nyeri nominated MCA Elizabeth Wangui.  Former MPs Kalembe Ndile, Moses ole Sakuda (Kajiado West) Danson Mungatana (Garsen) and Zipporah Kering (Nandi) were not in Jubilee's list of nominees. Former Interior PS Mutea Iringo and former Embu Speaker Justus Mate were also not considered despite being among the 208 applicants for the slots.  Read: Jubilee rewards election losers with EALA slots Also read: Mutea Iringo, ex-MPs feature in list of EALA MP applicants The committee's co-chair Katoo ole Metito has urged MPs to speed up the process of electing representatives to the regional assembly before the Christmas recess.  He said this followed considerations that the assembly cannot be inaugurated without representation from any of the partner states. "Kenya can no longer be the country holding the take-off of the regional assembly in abeyance," Metito said on Monday.  "I request the House and political parties to note the key timelines of the election process and support the joint committee in steering the EALA election to its logical conclusion." Related: Jubilee, NASA face delicate balancing act in filling EALA posts, rewarding loyalists Click here for the latest political stories