MPs have begun jostling for key parliamentary committee positions even as the House yesterday approved names of members to the committee on Selection. The selection committee has the sole mandate of selecting members to other committees based on their applications. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are expected to have the final say on who becomes chairperson of various committees to be headed by Jubilee. Read: NASA can't stall Parliament, Jubilee will form committees - Duale   Sources, however, told the Star that Murang’a Woman representative Sabina Chege was lobbying to retain her position as the chair of the committee on Education. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo is eyeing the chairmanship of the powerful committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. Cheptumo, a former Justice and Constitutional Affairs assistant minister, is serving a third term as MP. He hopes his seniority in the House will give him some advantage. Cheptumo led the select parliamentary committee that prepared the controversial Election Laws Amendment Bill, 2017. It is said he has the blessings of both Uhuru and Ruto. Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai is also looking to retain her position as the chairperson of the Health committee. She served in the committee in the last Parliament. Sources say the fact that she won election on the Jubilee ticket in a NASA stronghold will give her advantage. Kiambu Town’s Jude Njomo is eyeing the chairmanship of the Defence and Foreign Relations committee. Gilgil’s Martha Wangari wants to chair the Environment and Natural Resources committee. The former nominated senator served as vice chair of the Senate’s Labour committee. Joseph Limo (Kipokelion East) and Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri) are both eyeing the Finance committee while Moses Lessonet (Eldama Ravine) wants to recapture the chairmanship of the committee on CDF. Read: NASA won't hold Parliament hostage, Muturi says as MPs delay committee formation Members of the committee on Selection include Jimmy Angwenyi, Benjamin Washiali, Jude Njomo, Beatrice Nyagah, Khatib Mwashetani, Faith Wairimu, David Pkosing, David Sankok, William Chepkut, Gladwell Jesire, John Kiarie and William Kisang from Jubilee. NASA will be represented by Junet Mohamed, Florence Mutua, Tindi Mwale, Benson Mulu, Owen Baya, Ahmed Ibrahim and Catherine Wambilianga.  The committee is chaired by Majority leader Aden Duale. Minority leader John Mbadi also seats in the committee. Click here for the latest political news  