 Kenya Pipeline Company cross-country meeting today in Maikuu Primary School grounds in Kinyambu, will form part of this year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations in Kibwezi East in Makueni County.  The event being organised by Athletics Kenya (AK) Southern region branch will feature senior 10km race (men and women) junior 8km (men) and 6km (women) races. Winners in various categories will receive enhanced cash prizes for the top 10 in each of the elite races and top 6 finishers for the local kids and veterans races.  Winners in the senior men’s and women category will pocket Sh25,000 while first and second runners up will receive Sh15,000 and Sh10,000 respectively. Top three in junior categories will pocket Sh20,000, 15,000 and Sh10,000 respectively. AK Southern region branch chairman Paul Mutwii said the area County Commissioner’s office has already given them a go ahead to stage as a curtain-raiser to the national celebrations. “It was amazing to see Kibwezi East people turn out in their numbers in 2016 when this race was introduced. This for us was an indication of not just the athletics appetite but potential within our lower part of AK Southern region branch.  We are deeply grateful to KPC for accepting to bring back this event once again to continue the foundation that was laid,” remarkedl Mutwii, In order to ensure a lasting and sustainable impact of the initiative, KPC will support a tree planting exercise before the races are flagged off. KPC managing director, Joe Sang applauded the local community of Thange and the larger Makueni County for their huge support during the inaugural race in 2016. “It is our corporate tradition to always partner with communities that host us and our facilities through various strategies of mutual benefit. Thange has a special place in our community of partners and we feel proud that we are able to carry out a sports activities that will in the long run see their transformation as young people showcase their running potential ,” said Sang.