An eight-month old baby found abandoned near a railway line in Ol Kalou has been reunited with her mother. Angela Wanja was handed over to her mother Irene Kendi on Wednesday afternoon. The baby had been stolen from Embakasi in Nairobi on Thursday last week. She was later found abandoned at Kiyuu in Ol Kalou, Nyandarua county on Friday afternoon. Kendi said her maid, Mary Wacuka alias Angela Wambui, took away her baby and demanded a Sh40,000 ransom. Wambui traveled with the baby to Ol Kalou as she waited for the mother to pay up. She then decided to abandon the child near a railway line. Read more : Cops looking for parents of abandoned 8-month-old baby Interestingly, Wambui called her boyfriend Charles Machira with whom they pretended to be Good Samaritans and picked up the baby. They reported the matter to Ol Kalou police before the baby was taken to JM Memorial Hospital. They said they had found the baby abandoned. Wambui was later arrested on Tuesday. Nyandarua children's officer Peter Chege handed over baby Angela to her mother on Wednesday afternoon. Kendi said she had left the baby with Wambui when she left her house in Embakasi to go and sell eggs and smokies at City Cabanas on Thursday last week. But the house help had other plans. Read more : Embakasi house help arrested for stealing 'abandoned' 8-month-old baby Kendi then realised she was missing some items at her work place. "I called Mary to confirm if I had forgotten the items at home. But she did not pick her phone," Kendi said. She had all along known Wambui only as Mary. She then rushed home where she found Wambui and her baby missing. A few minutes later, she received a short message from Wambui demanding that she pay a Sh40,000 ransom or forget about her baby. "Send me Sh40,000 if you want your baby back or I sell her to a client who is offering Sh100,000. You only have tomorrow to pay up or she will be gone," the text message written in Sheng reads. Kendi said she had hired Wambui as maid from a male friend she only identified as Boni. She said Wambui had been cohabiting with Boni before the man's wife returned from upcountry, forcing her to leave. "It was our third month together. She woke up well and attended to her duties as usual," Kendi said. Women who spoke to the Star at the JM Memorial Hospital said Wambui wept when she left Angela at the ward. "It never occurred to us that she was only shedding crocodile tears," Hannah Kaberia said. Wambui has since been handed over to Embakasi DCI officers. She was arrested by Nyandarua Central DCIO Stansellous Mwangi. Chege called for a thorough investigation, saying it appeared like Wambui was working in cahoots with a child trafficking cartel. Click here for the latest political news