The mother of a 14 years old girl who disappeared from witness protection wants an explanation on her daughter 's disappearance. The minor was placed under the witness protection agency in October after it was suspected that she was defiled by a police officer at Murang'a police station on September 30. The girl had been arrested on suspicion of stealing clothings from Murang'a University of Technology. Read; Girl,14, defiled by cop, goes missing while under witness protection It is alleged that she was defiled by police constable Laban Njogu who was on duty at the report office. The matter was made public by a whistleblower who gave a detailed account on social media of how the police officer went into the women's cell and defiled the minor at night promising to release her if she gave in. He said he witnessed the ordeal while he was being held in the men's cells adjacent to the women's. The police scrapped her theft case and made her a witness in the defilement case against the police officer. But her mother wants the police to explain how the minor disappeared from the witness protection agency where she was to be under full-time surveillance. She said her family is wondering whether there was external interferences in the case that forced her daughter's disappearance but noted that the police have given her scanty information. She demanded to know the location where her daughter was being kept before she disappeared to help her retrace her. Speculations are however rife that the mother may be colluding with some police officers to frustrate the investigations. This is after she was seen conversing with the suspect on November 16 during a mention of the case in a Murang'a court. The two then left the courtroom together with the mother said to be in a seemingly good mood. The prosecution is said to have reprimanded her for her actions as she was asked to not dare interfere with the case. Sources within the police department indicate that the police are investigating claims that the accused person visited the mother at her home at St. Mary's village. The minor's mother has however dismissed the claims saying that the only time she talked to the accused was in court. She said he approached her asking if she could have her daughter released from witness protection so that the matter can be solved out of court which she declined. "I want the police to find my daughter because it is their responsibility to protect her. If they are unable to, then I will keep her safe," she said. The hearing of the case was postponed to January 29 next year after the defence applied to have a DNA test done and results produced in court. The police officer was released on a bond of a Sh 400,000 bond and a surety of the same amount on October 11. Chief Magistrate Margret Wachira warned him against threatening the victim’s family in any way. The witness protection agency, however, released a press statement indicating that minors are not housed in their safe houses and that they were working with a children’s home to protect her. “The minor walked out of the home after writing a message on her exercise book thanking the home for taking care of her. She had expressed her dissatisfaction at being defined and wanted to go back home,” the agency said. The statement further indicated that the home reported that she had gone missing on December 2 and made a report to a nearby police station. The agency said that it was later discovered that she had stolen Sh 200 and assorted clothes from other children at the home. Also read: Cop accused of defiling minor in cell freed on Sh400,000 bond  Click here for the latest political news