This year has, arguably, been the toughest for the judiciary with its independence tested to the limit.  Judges, including those of the Supreme Court, found themselves on the receiving end.  The most serious criticism came in September, after the Supreme Court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win in the August 8 election. Uhuru led politicians in bashing the court. Other politicians accused some judges of having been influenced by their political biases. Parliament also launched a scathing attack on the Supreme Court, with MPs amending the law to prevent the apex court from declaring null and void, a presidential election outcome announced by the IEBC. The move was to “tame” the court, MPs said. Uhuru, at one point, threatened to “revisit” the Supreme Court decision once the elections were over. But the President, after the court upheld his October 26 win, paid a courtesy call on Chief Justice David Maraga. Uhuru urged Maraga to develop a thick skin and accept criticism, saying it came with the office. “Whether in the media, journals, public barazas or on social media and even from me, Kenyans will say what they have to say and most of the time it will not be flattering,” Uhuru said. Apart from the reactions triggered by the presidential petition ruling, it was also argued that the judge’s no-show for the hearing of a petition challenging the validity of the October 26 rerun was a result of intimidation. On October 25, the judges stayed away from the court, except Maraga and Isaac Lenaola. Kenyans were anxiously waiting for the court decision on whether the election would go on or it would be postponed. NASA leader Raila Odinga had already withdrew from the poll, citing lack of adequate preparation by IEBC. He had hoped that the court would agree with him and allow more time before the repeat poll. Raila said the judges had been threatened and intimidated. He cited the shooting of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu’s driver and a flurry of petitions challenging the judges suitability. Judges handling election-related cases were generally celebrated and vilified in equal measure.  The judges came under siege as politicians tried to influence their decisions. Maraga was at one point forced to call a press conference as the election fever gripped the nation. He expressed his disgust with the many criticisms aimed at judges and called for an end to intrusion into the judiociary’s independence. Maraga told politicians they will be held accountable should any judge be harmed as a result of the continued mudslinging. The CJ said he was ready to “pay the ultimate price” to protect the Constitution. His disgust was evident after Uhuru had referred to them as crooks. “If the leaders are tired of having a strong and independent judiciary, they should call a referendum and abolish it altogether,” Maraga said. At the Judicial Service Commission, petitions seeking the removal of some Supreme Court judges, had been filed. Nyeri MP Ngunjiri Wambugu wanted Maraga probed over alleged gross misconduct. He later put the petition on hold. Mwilu and Lenaola also had petitions against them over alleged gross misconduct. Derrick Ngumu, executive director of Angaza Empowerment Network, accused the judges of breaching the JSC code of conduct during the hearing of the August presidential election petition. Ngumu claimed the two judges had met NASA leaders at Sky View Apartments in Kileleshwa, on August 17 and 18, to discuss the petition. Activist Kelvin Njihia also sought to bar Mwilu, Mohamed Ibrahim and Lenaola from hearing a subsequent petition filed by Njonjo Mue and Khalif Khelef. Njihia also wanted the judges stopped from hearing another petition by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau. The petitioners had challenged the validity of the October 26 presidential poll. Njihia said Ibrahim was unable to perform his duties, owing to his physical fraility. He wanted him to be removed from office and replaced. His petition came after Maraga announced Ibrahim’s illness during the determination of the August 8 presidential petition on September 1. Lawyer Apollo Mboya also filed a petition against Njoki Ndung’u. The former Law Society of Kenya CEO said Ndung’u showed lack of courtesy and civility towards fellow judges when she gave reasons why she disagreed with the nullification of Uhuru’s win. Ndung’u and Justice Jackton Ojwang’ had dissented the majority ruling that nullified the election. Mboya also petitioned the JSC to remove President of the Appeal Court Justice Kihara Kariuki and appellate judges Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome and Fatuma Sichale from office. He said Kariuki had appointed the three judges to sit and issue directions on a day which had been declared a public holiday. Githinji, Koome and Sichale heard an appeal by the IEBC after High Court judge George Odunga had declared the appointment of the October 26 election officials unlawful. Odunga was at the centre of a political storm pitting Jubilee and NASA. Leader of Majority Aden Duale threatened to introduce a motion to discuss Odunga’s conduct. Duale accused Odunga of bias, saying he always issued orders that favoured NASA.