Burnley's Ashley Barnes fired a last-gasp
winner as his off-colour side climbed to the heady heights of
fourth in the Premier League with a fortuitous 1-0 win over
struggling Stoke City on Tuesday. There was little to warm the home crowd on a wet and windy
night but those who braved the wintry weather were celebrating
in the 89th minute as Barnes seized on a ricochet off team mate
Scott Arfield and thumped a shot past Stoke goalkeeper Jack
Butland. Burnley moved above Tottenham Hotspur, Arsenal and Liverpool
-- all of whom play on Wednesday -- and are the highest they
have been in the top flight since 1975. Sean Dyche's side have played much better this season, but
despite managing only two shots on target all night against the
team with the worst defence in the Premier League, they found a
way to get their ninth win from 17 games. "Tonight was a different style of getting a result. It was
an ugly game at times in harsh conditions," Dyche said. "We found a way to win and a real fine goal. Sometimes
that's football. We're not the real deal, we're a side that are
improving. We're having a real go at what we can achieve this
season. The fans and the town have got to enjoy these times." Stoke's form has been in direct contrast to Burnley's and
the pressure was starting to mount on manager Mark Hughes after
his side's second-half capitulation in a 5-1 defeat by Tottenham
at Wembley on Saturday. That left them with 16 points from 16 games, which
represented their worst start to a Premier League season, but
they could count themselves unlucky not to return to the
Potteries with at least a point on Tuesday. Only a post prevented Peter Crouch giving the visitors an
early lead while Kurt Zouma wasted another good chance and Mame
Diouf fired an effort into the side-netting. Hughes was jeered when he took off the creative Xherdan
Shaqiri in the 84th minute but there was worse to come when
Barnes produced a rare moment of quality to plunder the win. "I thought the lads were fantastic and matched everything
Burnley threw at us," Hughes said. "I thought when we were able to get the ball down, we were
the team trying to create openings in wide areas and get good
balls in. It's hard to take, Burnley didn't deserve to win." Stoke are three points above the drop zone with
second-from-bottom West Ham United visiting on Saturday.