The US is going through an awakening following the unlikely election of Donald Trump. This awakening started in Virginia, where Democrats held on to the governorship last month, followed by their taking over of the governorship in New Jersey and now the defeat of an accused pedophile, who came seriously close to being elected to the Senate through the Republican ticket.  It’s an awakening because Trump burst into power riding on campaign themes, slogans and dog whistles having as a common denominator the distaste for progressiveness, exclusion, sexism and racism, vices many thought were in the annals of history. There was an expectation among many who voted for Trump, despite his many flaws and lack of presidential leadership qualities, that he would morph into some leader worth that office. That never happened and, in some cases, he has gotten worse, especially in his inability to shake his school-yard bullying through his Twitter handle, where, on any given day, you’ll find something that would have you rolling your eyes, wondering how on earth did this man get to be President of the mighty US — well, perhaps now not the case, given the goings on in the country. In efforts to show the world Trump does not represent American values, despite being her President, an interesting coalition emerged first in Virginia, which helped Democrats to win the governorship. It comprised Democrats, moderate Republicans, millennials, women and minorities, especially Black Americans. The same coalition was responsible for electing a Democrat governor in New Jersey and ditto on Wednesday, when the same coalition helped defeat the accused pedophile Roy Moore in Alabama from becoming a US Senator. They elected a Democrat to that seat, marking it the first time in over 25 years since a Democrat was elected to that office in this deeply Republican state. The same coalition is expected to next sweep Republicans out of power come next year in major legislative offices, especially Congress, where Democrats may as well take control and, if Trump lasts through his full term, the same formation is salivating to boot him from office come 2020. In other words, Democrats have figured a way to put together a winning coalition that’s delivering desired results and helping in ending the madness that’s the Trump presidency. We need in Kenya a similar coalition with equal force and effect, if not more. To be sure, we have had coalitions in the past but these have always been formed along tribal lines; Democrats did not form a coalition of two major groups plus some minor or token as we have the case in the current ruling coalition in Kenya. Rather, Democrats cast a wide net in forming this formidable coalition that truly represents the face of America, which is exactly what we need in Kenya — a coalition comprising as many faces of Kenya as we can have and these have to be beyond tribe to include the youth, women and members from marginalised communities. Rather than having the People’s Assembly to control politics in one half of the country and Jubilee control ling the rest of the country, someone cleverer better come up and pluck people from both camps and organise a real and true people’s coalition akin to the Democrats’ one to, in this case, sweep Jubilee out of office come 2022.  Formation of such a coalition entails current leaders in these two camps acknowledging, as the Democrats did, that sometimes country and her values trump that which is expedient for personal or partisan purposes. The question is, who will step forward and help form that coalition? This is not only an idea whose time has come but it’s a notion we can’t let pass, lest we continue wallowing in the same backward, divisive and totally useless power-grabbing and struggles that only benefit the few who benefit from the madness.   Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States