Mombasa MCAs have unanimously passed a motion for the formation of a People’s Assembly. In a packed 43-member House on Wednesday, mover Moses Aran (Nominated) said autocratic and dictatorial rule and electoral theft must end. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom he called a despot, was not validly elected on October 26 despite apex court upholding his win.   The assembly termed the results “illegitimate, null and void” and said the fight to “liberate” Kenya has started and will get tougher. Aran said Uhuru cannot - by delegation or any other means - be properly vested in the people’s sovereign power and authority. The MCA added the National Assembly, controlled by Jubilee, cannot be entrusted to challenge his win. He said the invalidation means Uhuru does not have constitutional authority or legitimacy to govern. The government has warned against engagement with the Assembly and termed it illegal and Jubilee-leaning politicians have asked Treasury not to fund counties that approve the motion. The motion states that a special college for the appointment of members, delegations and observers to the Assembly will be constituted. It says a “truly independent electoral and boundaries commission" is achievable and will oversee fresh presidential election on or before February 19, 2018. “This will enable protection of the sovereignty of the people and to promote constitutionalism," Aran said. He also discussed devolution and said it ought to be strengthened.  Old Town MCA Morfad Amur said a fresh election must be held within 90 days from the October poll day. He supported the swearing-in of Opposition Chief Raila Odinga as the President of the People's Republic of Kenya on December 12. Related: Drop swearing-in bid, go for talks with Uhuru, US tells Raila  Also read: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila With the People’s Assembly, Mombasa does not recognise Uhuru as President. Governor Hassan Joho and DG William Kingi’s handlers keenly followed the proceedings. A stage was set outside the chambers where bunge la mwananchi speakers addressed their members in solidarity with the Opposition. Kisimani bunge la mwananchi Speaker Mudi Mpapale said they will not be intimidated by any form of "sponsored threat" and that they will enlighten their members on the need to reject the incumbent. NASA strategist David Ndii, who heads a seven-member committee tasked to oversee operations of the People’s Assembly, was trailed by police and arrested in Kwale. He is out on police bond.  Raila has said the arrest was meant to instill fear and predicted worse actions by the government while several rights groups have raised concerns, saying Kenya could soon become a dictatorship. Read: Civil rights at risk under Uhuru, activists say after David Ndii arrest Nominated MCA Mohamed Hatimi noted Mombasa residents have always been firm in fighting for their rights. “I thank you for staying put and showing up when needed most,” he said. Mombasa is the 10th county to approve the motion for the Assembly through which Raila will be sworn-in. The others are Kilifi, Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kisumu, Makueni, Migori, Siaya and Vihiga. Read: NASA asks People's Assembly counties for Raila swearing-in venue Click here for the latest political stories  