Private sector credit growth has declined by more than 20 per cent over the past three years owing to a series of shocks that have hit the country’s economy, the World Bank has said. “Private sector credit growth fell from its peak of about 25 per cent in mid-2014 to 2 per cent in October 2017 — its lowest level in over a decade,” The 2017 Kenya Economic Update report stated. The report shows that some of these events include large capital outflows which put pressure on the exchange rate and liquidity in the banking sector in 2015, bank liquidation and receivership as seen in the case of Dubai Bank, Chase Bank and Imperial Bank, and most recently, the introduction of the law capping interest rates. “Since the introduction of the caps, credit to the government has increased significantly even as credit to the private sector continues to fall,” the report stated. “So far in 2017, growth in credit to the government has averaged about 15 per cent compared to the 2.3 per cent to the private sector.” This means that lenders have resorted to risk-free Treasury Bills and government bonds at the expense of lending to the private sector. Data presented in the report show that business services had been hardest hit, with average 2016-17 credit growth at about 10 per cent compared to about 25 per cent in the 2014-15 period. Credit growth in the manufacturing sector also declined to about one per cent from 26 per cent, transport and communication at about 10 per cent from 40 per cent growth and lending to households dropped to 10 per cent from around 30 per cent. A survey conducted by the Kenya Bankers Association on the impact of the Banking (Amendment) Act 2016 reiterates this, stating that credit is now more skewed towards the secure and short-term market end. “Lenders are becoming very risk sensitive and as such are moving away from household and other economic agents that lack dependable collateral, like small and medium-sized enterprises,” KBA director for research on financial markets and policy Jared Osoro said.  He added that banks are now more biased towards trade than investments, to the disadvantage of manufacturing and other key economic sectors. CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge said that although the private sector credit growth had now hit rock bottom and would start registering an upward trend, there was need to revise the interest rate capping law to further drive credit growth. The report by the World Bank shows that the reversal of the interest rate cap must be accompanied by other structural reforms to boost domestic credit to the private sector.