Opposition Chief Raila Odinga’s children are becoming politically assertive, vocal and standing very visibly behind Baba in his protracted battle against President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila Junior, 38, and Winnie Odinga, 27, no longer are working in the comfort of remote boardrooms. They are literally behind and beside Raila, even during risky political activities that have turned into clashes between police and NASA supporters. Read : 'Raila would have been shot': Winnie Odinga recounts Jogoo Road chaos On November 17, Winnie and Junior were caught in the crossfire and tear gas as the police battled NASA supporters when Raila was returning from the United States. Winnie was in the bullet-proof car when the front windscreen was hit. She says it was a bullet. NASA says 18 people were killed that day, most by police. Police dispute that. Are the two being groomed for politics? Are they driven by love for their father or passion for politics? Or both? Last night sources close to the family speaking on condition of anonymity confirmed that both Winnie and Junior have political ambitions for Nairobi and Bondo. “He [Raila] is at his retirement age and must be preparing to pass the baton of leadership to his children,” analyst Danstan Omari told the Star. “We have seen Uhuru and [DP William] Ruto introduce their children to the public. It also shows they cherish family values and are ready to pass the mantle of leadership to the younger ones,” he said. Not everyone agrees. Read : Windscreen of Raila's car damaged on Jogoo Road Despite their currently being in the political limelight, Raila is not exiting the political scene very soon, says Shem Ochoudho, chairman of the Kenya Diaspora Alliance.  “I won’t be surprised if he is a candidate in 2022. But it is time Kenyans got away from dynasty politics. Let leaders be elected for who they are: Let Kenyans judge them by the content of the character they are made of. Not because of whose son or daughter he/she is,” he told the Star. Standing by their father isn’t all. Apart from working in the Presidential Campaign Secretariat for the invalidated August 8 General Election, Winnie and Junior, as they are commonly known, are becoming outspoken. In a recent interview with the Nairobian, Winnie — named after the feisty South African activist and ex-first lady Winnie Mandela — described herself as her father’s “bodyguard, briefcase carrier, travel companion or even driver, if need be”. She holds degrees in international business and corporate communications. Junior, previously a laid-back businessman, has become a relentless critic of the Jubilee administration. “Picketing is legal, police protection should be a requirement, but these days police are so disastrous and chaotic,” Junior tweeted on November 22, a week before Uhuru was sworn in. “Giving police tear gas to solve almost everything is going to produce disastrous results.” Raila, 72, has shown no signs of hanging up his boots and has declared his own swearing in as the People’s President by the People’s Assembly on December 12. It is not clear yet whether Raila is quietly grooming his children for the political stage. “They appear to be driven more by love for their father. But they are also coming face-to-face with the wickedness their father faced that led to his detention. They have no option but to fight,” a close Raila associate told the Star. Already Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka is pushing his son Kennedy Musyoka into the East African Legislative Assembly where he is expected to cut his political teeth. Oburu Oginga, Raila’s eldest brother, already has his son positioned high in the the Siaya county government. Jaoko Oburu, chair of the NASA Young Turks, was named Tourism executive by Governor Cornel Rasanga. Raila’s eldest son, the late Fidel Odinga, was widely perceived as Raila’s heir-apparent before he died under mysterious circumstances in January 2015. Then there’s vibrant and eloquent Rosemary Odinga. She declared her intention to run for the Kibra parliamentary seat, traditionally held by her father. She fell sick in early 2017 and was hospitalised for two and half months in South Africa. Then she withdrew from the race on medical grounds. Rosemary’s illness has confined her indoors and restricted even her mother, Ida Odinga’s, involvement in politics in recent months. Winnie, who accompanied Raila on his US trip, painfully narrated what she called an attempt on her father’s life by police. In a statement sent to newsrooms by Raila’s adviser Salim Lone, Winnie said her father’s car was hit with a hail of bullets and multiple blasts from tear gas canisters. “It came out of the blue..., this huge blast of a tear gas cannister hitting the car from one of those weaponised throwers you have seen in videos. That was immediately followed by other hand-thrown canisters hurled at the car, and at least half a dozen gunshots that hit the car all around us, the kind you associate with AK-47s,” Winnie said. “I just could not believe that the PM’s car was actually coming under fire in broad daylight with scores of witnesses looking on.” The most frightening moment was when a bullet hit the windscreen and shattered it. “Had it not been a bullet-proof car, that bullet would have hit Mzee. Two bullets also hit the car on the side I was sitting,” she said. Read : Raila return: NASA moves rally to Kibra, supporters burn vehicles Junior occasionally stepped out of his other vehicle and walked with the agitated crowd. On Tuesday as police barred NASA supporters from accessing Jacaranda Grounds, Winnie said her driver John Ogwati was struck in the head from close range by a tear gas launcher. She posted on her Facebook page that health officials at Mama Lucy Hospital declined to treat him. The hospital denies that. Winnie posted, “He was rushed to Mama Lucy Hospital by friends who were wearing Resist T-shirts. The staff upon seeing this group, which included John bleeding profusely from his head, informed the patient, ‘We don’t treat watu wa Baba hapa,’” she said. Two other injured NASA supporters were also chased away, she said. Click here for the latest political news