What I know for a fact is that the Luo community fought hard, among other Kenyans, to bring about multiparty democracy, but forgot to take it to Luoland.  I hope in the new dispensation, like everywhere else, we will have real multipartyism, where any party thrives everywhere so that people are not inclined to one party to survive in politics in certain regions. In Central Kenya, you will find everybody must be in Jubilee while in Luoland you must be in ODM to win a seat. That is not a democracy. People say they want free and fair elections, but they don’t care if the primaries are not credible, free and fair. The elections cannot be free and fair if the party primaries are not free and fair. An election is a process and there must be transparency at all levels. I don’t know much about the sons and daughters of Raila, hence I cannot comment on their individual skills. I only know them from a distance. But despite their currently being in the political limelight, Raila is not exiting the political scene very soon. I won’t be surprised if he is a candidate in 2022. But it is time Kenyans got away from dynasty politics. Let leaders be elected for who they are: Let Kenyans judge them by the content of the character they are made of. Not because of whose son or daughter he/she is. But much of this was spearheaded to retain power. Someone told me at one point that for you to be in this position you must have married someone’s daughter or son. Until Kenyans get to a situation when people get position on merit, we will never move ahead. Kenya is a sleeping giant and requires good leaders. As a Kenyan citizen, Raila is allowed to participate in Kenya politics as a voter or a candidate. We need to move beyond ethnic profiling and petty politics. The leader I look forward to is the one who brings together Kenyans regardless of the ethnic factor. Not who looks at people as Kikuyu, Luhya, Luo, Kamba, or any other tribe. I would prefer to look at the Prime Minister as more of a national leader rather than a Nyanza leader. I take the position Jubilee is the problem, but NASA is not the solution. The writer is the Chairman of the Kenya Diaspora Alliance  Click here for the latest political stories 