Operations in Dadaab refugee camp remained paralyzed for the fifth  day yesterday following protest by the host
community against UNHCR, demanding several
issues addressed. Distribution of food scheduled to start on December 1 to 8 in Hagadera, then in Dgahaley, has been delayed due to security concerns. Medical services have also been interrupted as most specialist are housed in the Dadaab based headquarters. A section of leaders and elders led by Dmajale MCA Diriye Abdi, yesterday held a press conference where they said that no activity will continue until UNHCR replaces the head of operations at the Dadaab refugee camp, Jean Bosco and his assistant Ivana Unluova. They accuse the two of ‘high handeness’ and doing things without consulting and involving the local leadership, and lack of respect to the host community. “We are telling UNHCR that it will not be business as usual with them as along as this man (Bosco) remains in office. We have had many heads of operations before who worked in harmony with our community and the local leadership, let them replace him,” Hussein,xxxx. Harry Mohamed, an elder, said for peace between the refugees and host community to prevail ‘Bosco must go’. “Our environment has been degraded for the past 27 years. but in the spirit of brotherhood we accepted to continue staying with our brothers and sisters from Somalia because of what was happening in their country. In return we expected that UNHCR will  honor its side of the bargain by providing cooperate social responsibilities. That seems not to be  happening at the moment,” Harun said. After the demonstrations,
Bosco was quoted blaming the local political
leadership of being behind the protests, which he said were politically motivated. He singled out area MP Mohamed Dahiye as being behind them. They accused him of deliberately sacking the locals and replacing them with ‘outsiders and foreigners’. Following days of protest, UNHCR is set to meet with local leadership in a meeting scheduled for today. Those expected to attend are MPs Mohamud Omar (Wajir South) Mohamed Dahiye (Dadaab) and Abdikarim Osman (Fafi) ,MCAs and other local leaders.