Controversial peacher Gilbert Deya is set to be released from remand prison mid next month. The court released him on a Sh1 million bond. This is after the Director of Public Prosecutions failed to conclude the case in 120 days as directed by the High Court. Justice Luka Kimaru gave the orders in September when he denied the televangelist bond but directed prosecution to conclude case in three months. However, by this week, the prosecution had not completed their case. Several witnesses have they have several witnesses who are yet to testify. Through his lawyer, John Swaka, Deya asked the court to release him on bond, saying the prosecution had failed to heed the court’s order. In his ruling, chief magistrate Francis Andayi released him on a Sh1 million bond and a two sureties of the same amount. He ordered Deya to report to Muthaiga police station on weekly basis until further notice. Swaka gave the court an undertaking he will be held responsible if Deya absconds court. The preacher is likely to remain in custody until January 17 when the 120 days will formally elapse. Deya isremanded at Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. He was charged with five counts of stealing five children. It is alleged that between 2002 and 2004 on Mountain View Estate, Nairobi, Deya stole the children — all under the age of 14. Read:'Miracle babies' pastor Gilbert Deya extradited to Kenya, to face child trafficking charges It was alleged that during his extradition, a British court visited Kamiti and was satisfied it met the threshold of a facility in which the cleric could be remanded. When Deya was charged, he asked the court to take him to Kamiti and not the Industrial Area Remand Prison. He said it’s what they had all agreed on. However, Deya later went to court and complained about the deplorable state of the Kamiti cell. He said the room he was allocated did not meet the conditions Kenya and the British government had agreed on. Read:Deya files case at High Court seeking to block his prosecution over child theft Deya said the cell was extremely dirty and unfit for habitation. Deya said he was given a bucket to use in place of a toilet and he had to wash it after using it. Swaka had told the court that one of the conditions the UK court and Kenya agreed on upon Deya’s extradition was that the man of the cloth would be held in a dignified condition. He said Kenya assured that Kamiti had a special place, where he would be remanded. The court will continue hearings of the case on January 18 next year. Also Read:[VIDEO] Pastor Gilbert Deya claims his 'anointed' olive oil heals cancer, HIV  Click here for latest political news      