Construction of a Sh34 million milk processing plant in Kakamega county will provide an alternative to sugarcane farming in Western region. The plant at Bukura Agricultural College is a joint venture between the German and Dutch governments. It becomes the first in Western region after the collapse of Kitinda Dairy Farmers’ Co-operative Society in Bungoma county in the early 1990s. Overreliance on sugarcane farming as the only cash crop has been blamed for the high poverty incidents in the region. The sugar sub-sector which supports the region’s economy is currently unstable as it faces threats posed by cheap imports and the high cost of production.    The Bukura milk processing plant has a capacity to handle 10,000 litres of milk daily. Kakamega faces a deficiency of fresh milk and relies on imports from the neighbouring Nandi county in Rift Valley. The plant currently produces yoghurt, pasteurised milk, mala, cheese, butter and fresh milk, according to college principal Richard Wekesa. “The plant will benefit dairy farmers from Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia and Vihiga counties. Currently, the plant is processing a paltry 600 litres of milk a day since the college lacks the capacity to produce enough milk to fulfil its capacity,” he said. The college plans to increase its herd from 89 to 200 cows next year to increase milk production. Wekesa said the college is working closely with small-scale dairy farmers who supply milk to keep the factory afloat.  Though the project is part of the college’s value addition chain, it will provide a viable avenue for farmers to diversify from overreliance on sugarcane farming. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya launched the One Cow Initiative two years ago to boost milk production and upgrade local breeds.  Under the programme, farmers are given a dairy cow each with instructions to pass over the calves to other farmers when it is grown. This aims to ensure every household owns a cow in 10 years. “They will have a ready market for their milk and may want to acquire skills at the college in regard to animal husbandry,”  Oparanya said.        