NASA strategist David Ndii has challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to  "face off mano a mano". The economist hit back at Uhuru on Friday, after his dramatic arrest in Kwale county earlier this week. Ndii was taken to Nairobi over incitement, a matter that provoked outrage by politicians and pro-democracy activists who warned Kenya was sliding into dictatorship. Read: David Ndii arrested in Kwale over People's assembly Also read: David Ndii freed on police bond as incitement probe continues Via Twitter  the strategist said Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto should face him instead of being cowards. "I have been reminded that UhuRuto are wimps cowering behind state power. Let them come out here and we face off mano a mano," he wrote. Members of the public who responded to his tweet included one Munanyakhi, who said: "So sad you just came from incarceration and you can't tame your tweeting fingers. Next time they come for you, remember to apologise to your daughter in advance for leaving her without a father figure." Crispus Wachira said: "I may not like your abrasive behaviour but I must also remind you these fans cheering you on, as you duel with powers that be, will not come to your aid when you are incarcerated in one of our penitentiaries." Eric Kithinji added: "You will be imprisoned for treason and dee in those cells. Joke with your words and actions...you will regret later." '@Alking25' defended Uhuru and Ruto saying they are wise grownups who "cannot waste their time and energy like your boss does". He was referring to NASA chief Raila Odinga. "They have a lot to do with their time for Kenyans...I mean the true Kenyans." Kim Stevenkim wrote: "My friend, don't be narcissistic to law. Ignorance of it isn't a defence. Personal differences shouldn't be brought into public domain." Vikings Kenya warned Ndii that he can be apprehended anywhere, at any time and without compromise. "Your plans can vanish and sleep in prison, away from your wife." Related: Kenya sliding into dictatorship, rights groups say after David Ndii arrest But some sided with the economist saying the government cannot silence Kenyans. "Jubilee cannot silence Kenyans' voices. Liberation is a must. Thanks for your courage even in the flames of intimidation," Paul Maingi told Ndii. Chris Wasike said: "Keep at it. Heroes are those who, without apology, take stands that shape generations for posterity. '@Omenda_Ke' said: "They insist Kenya is a democracy yet they don't know what democracy entails. Key are constitutional liberties which they violate, such as freedom of speech and free and fair elections which have never happened in Kenya . We don't recognise them,"  Police trailed the prominent NASA strategist from Nairobi to Kwale in a dramatic arrest, on suspicion he was planning meetings with the outlawed Mombasa Republican Council. Senior police officers told the Star that Ndii had been under 24-hour surveillance for some time. They believed the NASA policy chief was contacting various people, including MRC members. This turned out to be a crude hoax and embarrassment to the government. “We have been monitoring his movements and meetings. We had information he may have been planning meetings in Mombasa with MRC members or associates,” a senior police officer told The Star. Ndii’s wife Mwende Gatabaki denied the reports and said they were in Diani on holiday and to attend a wedding. Read: [VIDEO] More will be arrested, Raila says, demands David Ndii's release Click here for the latest political news