Fatuma Zarika was by and large the most successful Kenyan boxer in a season marred by poor officiating. The ‘Iron Fist’ as she is amiably referred to, retained her World Boxing Council (WBC) title for the second successive occasion after out-punching Zambian Catherine Phiri. WBC is by far the most prestigious belt in professional boxing compared to World Boxing Association (WBA), World Boxing Federation (WBF), International Boxing Federation (IBF), World Boxing Organisation (WBO), World Boxing Board (WBB), International Boxing Organisation (IBO) and International Boxing Association (IBA). Zarika’s fairy-tale journey to stardom began on October 1, 2016 when she saw off Jamaican Alicia Ashley in the historic WBC world super bantamweight title fight in Michigan, US. This made her the first Kenyan to win a WBC world title after years of trying. Zaika’s victory rekindled memories of the historic WBC world title fight which Conjestina ‘Hands of Stone’ Achieng lost on points to America’s Yvonne Reis on April 1, 2006. Conjestina’s title shot was indeed the first time for a Kenyan. Zarika’s title win against Phiri was promoted by American-based Bigger Than Life Entertainment owned by Ejay Mathews.  Weaving, bobbing and ducking, Zarika gave the Zambian all she could handle but was distracted by a cut she sustained in the fifth round. Nevertheless, she inflamed the pain around the cut to soldier on to the very end. Judges John Shipanuka (Zambia), Michael Neequaye (Ghana) and Steve ‘Vedo’ Okumu unanimously scored in favour of Zarika. “I knew I was leading by a big margin by the time I sustained the cut so the essence was to just fight on and to go the full distance,” said a jubilant Zarika after the bout. In retaining the title  Zarika stretched her record to 30 wins, 12 losses and two draws  Kenya’s Onyango clinched the vacant WBF world welterweight title with victory over Tanzanian Saidi Mundi while Okwiri outclassed Tanzanian Amani Daudi  in middleweight non-title middleweight. On the amateur front, the Hit Squad to Congo Brazzaville Africa Championship performed quite well with lightweight boxer Nick Okoth clinching gold. Nick Okoth, 34, was among the three male Kenyan boxers who qualified for the men’s 2017 AIBA World Boxing Championship in Hamburg alongside bronze medalists John Kyalo (middleweight) and Shaffi Bakari (light flyweight). During the continental event, two Kenyan lady boxers Elizabeth Akinyi (women’s middleweight) and Christine Ongare also lost in the semifinals to clinch bronze medals. It was a such a rewarding comeback for the “Hit Squad” which had fielded a full team of 10 male boxers after skipping the continental championship for over a decade. Okoth, who boxed at the Beijing 2008 Olympics as a featherweight, savoured the lightweight gold medal in Brazzaville to keep his Japan 2020 Olympic hopes alive. Okoth beat Reda Benbaziz of Algeria to the Lightweight (60kg) gold in Brazzaville. But Namibia’s Matias Hamunyela continued the country’s strong tradition at Light Flyweight (49kg) when he defeated Kenya’s Hassan Shaffi Bakari in the semis. Egypt’s double-Olympian Hossam Hussein Bakr Abdin was back to his best when he beat Kenya’s John Nzioka Kyalo to reach the Middleweight (75kg) Final. Okoth, a younger sibling of Kuala Lumpur 1998 Commonwealth Games silver medalist Absalom Okinyi,  is seeking to qualify for his second career Olympic Games in a decade that has seen him reign supreme locally prior to moving up from bantamweight to lightweight division. In the Beijing summer games, Okoth lost his debut to Mexican Arturo Santos Reyes after wining the 2nd AIBA Africa Olympic qualifiers in Windhoek in March 2008. Shaffi was the best improved young boxer after dethroning Olympian Peter Mungai from Police’s starting line up at light flyweight. Kenya’s Onyango clinched the vacant WBF world welterweight title with victory over Tanzanian Saidi Mundi while Okwiri outclassed Tanzanian Amani Daudi  in middleweight non-title middleweight. At the local scene Police’s ‘Chafua Chafua’  retained the league on 103 points when they defeated rivals Kenya Defence Forces by a solitary point. But Police’s league victory for the umpteenth time didn’t go down well with some teams. BAK President John Kameta who attended the Kongowea season-ender candidly admitted there is a major problem in officiating that needed urgent intervention.  Kameta added that local investigations detected tampering of the computer scoring system which was taken to AIBA for further scrutiny. If the official under investigation is found guilty, Police will lose their title to the KDF.