  A couple in Embu  has been charged with forcibly circumcising their daughter.   The bleeding 15-year-old girl escaped and reported to police.   The father and the stepmother of the victim appeared in a Runyenjes court yesterday.  Also charged were circumciser Mercy Wanjuki and Nizareta Rwamba, who helped the stepmother to pin down the girl for the cut. The parents and Rwamba are accused of helping Wanjuki to circumcise the girl on Saturday in Embu East at about 5am. They denied the charges before senior principal magistrate Beatrice Kimemia.  Anti-FGM crusaders jammed the court, including Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation subcounty chairlady Ellcharity Njeri. Wanjuki was charged with performing FGM.  The magistrate released each of the accused on a Sh500,000 bond and a surety of similar amount. She ordered that they be supplied with  prosecution witnesses’ statements, charge sheets, and other document that will be used against them.  The accused will pay photocopying costs. The magistrate will give direction when the case is mentioned on December 18.  Kimemia ordered the girl be placed under her grandmother’s care. Speaking to the press after the mutilation, the form two student said her stepmother woke her up to go for a short call at 5am. When the girl returned, she found the circumciser in the house with her grandmother. She had a black polythene bag. The girl asked her stepmother what was going on. She declined to answer. The stepmother told the girl to ask her grandmother. The grandmother told her they want her to become an adult.  The girl did not understand what that meant. “Before I knew what was going on, the circumciser removed a razor blade and cotton wool from the polythene bag.  “I tried to resist, but they pinned me on the ground,” she said angrily, tears welling in her eyes.    After the cut, the girl was told to go back to bed. She overheard her father and stepmother talking.    The girl pretended to sleep, but  escaped and reported the crime. The police did not find her mother father and stepmother at home. They arrested the grandmother and the rest of the accused later.    After the cut, the girl was told to go back to bed. She overheard her father and stepmother talking.    The girl pretended to sleep, but  escaped and reported the matter. Police did not find her mother father and stepmother at home. They arrested the grandmother and the rest of the accused later.