World Under-18 Championships 400m silver medalist Mary Moraa is looking to transition to 800m in future. Without giving timelines, her coach and guardian Haron Onchong’a said: “We want her to follow in the footsteps of her idol Hellen Obiri, who is the current world 5,000m champion and Olympic silver medallist over the same distance. Moraa is very energetic and will do very well in 800m.” “We have started training her in intervals of 400m and 600m. She will step up to 800m with ease,” said Onchong’a who is also the Mogonga Secondary School principal. Onchong’a also welcomed the shortlisting of Moraa for the Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards in the most promising girl category. “As a school, we are proud of her achievements. We pray she wins the award so that she finishes the year on a high. Being shortlisted among the best in the whole country is not a mean feat,” said Onchong’a. Moraa, a student at Mogonga Mixed Secondary School, expressed her delight on being nominated for the Soya awards. “I’m happy. I didn’t expect to be shortlisted for Soya Awards. My aunt called me to tell me about it but I didn’t believe until I bought a newspaper the following day. I thank God for bringing me this far,” Moraa said. She clinched a rare silver medal during the World U-18 Championships in Nairobi in July. The speedster, who is nicknamed ‘Kisii Express’ will face off with Lawn Tennis sensation Angela Okutoyi and cricketer Vanessa Adhiambo. Others are Jackline Wambui and Caren Chebet, who won gold at the World U-18 Championships. After winning the silver medal, Moraa traveled with Team Kenya to Gulu in Uganda for the East Africa Secondary Schools championships where she retained the 400m title. She also led Team Kenya in clinching silver medals in 4x400 and 4x100m relays. On switching to 800m, Moraa said: “We have been working on it with coaches and I’m happy with the progress.” Moraa said she is targeting to represent the country at the World Under 20 Championships to be held in Tampere, Finland from July 19 to 24.