2017 was a tough year for Kenya as we said goodbye to some of our best known and well-loved figures. The year that was shadowed with the elections left many people dead and among them are prominent politicians. Below is the list: GOVERNOR WAHOME GAKURU He died at Thika Level 5 Hospital following a grisly road accident on November 7. Gakuru, 51, was reportedly travelling to Nairobi for an interview when his vehicle was involved in a road accident near Kabati on the Thika-Muranga highway.   BISHOP CORNELIUS KORIR Bishop Korir of the Eldoret Catholic Diocese died at his house on October 30 aged 67. He is particularly remembered for housing more than 7,000 victims of the 2007/8 post election violence victims. He ventured into difficult areas during the clashes to preach peace and reconcile communities. Read: [VIDEO] Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir is dead  The late Eldoret Catholic Diocese Bishop Cornelius Korir. /FILE CHRIS MSANDO The acting ICT director was found dead on July 31 in a forest in Kikuyu constituency. Msando was one of the few people with knowledge on the whereabouts of the IEBC servers.  He reported death threats to the Central police station days before his body was found dumped in a thicket. More on this: IEBC ICT manager Chris Musando found dead  The late former IEBC ICT manager Chris Musando. /FILE CALESTOUS JUMA Prof Juma died on December 15 barely a week after his mother was buried. He is one of Kenya's foremost recognised professors and was also the first African Science and Environmental journalists at the Daily Nation newspaper. Juma is an internationally recognised authority in the application of science and technology to sustainable development worldwide. Read: Kenyan Havard professor Calestous Juma is dead  The late Prof Calestous Juma. /FILE PETER WERU The Nyeri MCA (Ruguru ward) died on December 12 as he was being treated at Outspan hospital. Speaker John Kagucia said Weru felt dizzy as he was addressing a gathering during the Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nduduini primary school in Mathira constituency and was rushed to hospital. Read: Nyeri MCA Peter Weru is dead FRANCIS NYENZE Nyenze, 60, died on December 6 after a long battle with colon cancer — a disease that caused his lungs to weaken, resulting in a pneumonia infection during campaigns for the August 8 election. Read: [VIDEO] Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze is dead  The late Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze. /ENOS TECHE CHRISTABEL OUKO The widow of the late former minister Robert Ouko died after a road accident in Muhoroni.           Christabel and four others were on their way from the swearing-in ceremony of Governor Anyang' Nyong'o at Kenyatta Sports Ground, Kisumu.   The late Christabel Ouko, wife of the late former Foreign Affairs minister Robert Ouko. /MAURICE ALAL   JOSEPH NKAISSERY  Joseph Nkaissery died July 31 while still serving as Interior Cabinet Secretary. A postmortem revealed he died from a heart attack. He was 67 years old and was one of the core persons engaged in the preparations of the August 8 general election. Read: Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery is dead  The late former Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. /FILE AMB BETHWEL KIPLAGAT The former TJRC chairman passed on after a long illness at the Nairobi Hospital. He served as the chairman of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) from 2009 to November 2010. This was before he resigned to pave way for investigation into past human rights abuses.  The late former TJRC chairman Bethwel KIplagat. /FILE G.G KARIUKI The late Laikipia senator died on June 30 at Nairobi Hospital aged 78. Leaders hailed him as man who lived true to his word and did not hesitate to speak his mind on matters of the nations' interest.  The late former Laikipia Senator G.G Kariuki. /FILE NICHOLAS BIWOTT The former powerful minister died in Nairobi hospital aged 77 years on July 11. He represented Keiyo South in the National Assembly for 28 years.  The late former cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott. /FILE NDERITU GACHAGUA The former Nyeri Governor died aged 64 while undergoing treatment at a London hospital on February 24. He died from pancreatic cancer, an illness that saw him admitted in the UK for two months in 2015. Read: [VIDEO] Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua dies from cancer  The late former Nyeri governor Nderitu Gachagua during a past press conference. /WAMBUGU KANYI   MARIAM EL MAAWY The former Public Works PS died in a South African hospital on September 28. She succumbed to injuries she suffered during an attack by al Shabaab on July 14 in Milihoi, Lamu. Read: PS Mariam El-Maawy dies in South African hospital  The late Lands PS Mariam El-Maawy. /FILE BOY JUMA BOY The Senator died on February 12 after a short illness. Boy is said to have been taken to a Mombasa hospital after falling sick. He was later transferred to Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi where he died aged 57.  The late Kwale Senator Juma Boy Juma. /FILE JANET KANINI The former NTV presenter Janet Kanini died on April 1 after a battle with lung cancer. Last year in February, the presenter said she was cancer free.  The late TV personality Janet Kanini Ikua. /FILE MWIRARIA  The former Finance minister died at Karen Hospital in Nairobi on April 13 after a long battle with cancer. He was born on September 3, 1938. Mwiraria served as Finance minister until December 2007. See: [VIDEO] Former Finance minister David Mwiraria dies after battle with cancer