Nearly every major urban centre has a motor garage or some sort of vehicle repair yard. In most of these places however are found unqualified artisans masked as
mechanics. The majority only have skills acquired from serving as spanner boys.
They lack professional
know-how and employ rudimentary methods, which result in costly damage to vehicles. 
 The majority of idle
and unemployed youth are found in the informal sector, to which these garages belong. The
Kenya Economic Survey Report 2017 indicates that the
informal sector is the largest employer for the manufacturing
sector, growing by 6.5 per cent in 2016 to 2.7 million employees. The sector is
characterised by underemployment and low quality jobs, increasing
vulnerability to poverty. In Kenya, 17 per cent of the labour force is employed
in the formal sector while the remaining
83 per cent are in the informal sector. There are myriad opportunities in
the informal sector whose rapid growth in the last decade makes it a frontier
of economic success for the youth. The small-scale garage sector has recorded tremendous growth, with between 3,000 - 9,000 vehicles imported monthly. The Kenya Revenue Authority
predicts there will be more than five million vehicles on Kenyan roads by
2030. This means more manpower to address repair needs. Moreover, several global automotive
manufacturers have recently committed to increase production thanks
to new fiscal incentives by the government. These developments present
the sector with the impetus to
formalise and organise its operations. Kilemi Mwiria, in Youth Unemployment in Kenya: A Ticking Time
Bomb, 2016, established that there’s a huge demand for trained mechanics by companies such as Toyota, Nissan, Mercedes-Benz and BMW, especially if they have some dealership
experience. He opines that this category could receive short-term training in partnership
with dealership companies operating in Kenya.  Because many of those available
for overseas jobs have little if any formal training there is also need to
impart minimum formal educational skills in them. Apart from supporting
curriculum development and standardisation of the courses offered,
transnational corporations could sponsor students for internship during and
after the formal training. The graduates are good candidates for employment
in these corporates. Further, and to address the skills
gap, Kenya could adopt a feasible and legislated approach
to skill development that covers preliminary vocational education and training,
further vocational education and training, careers, employability, occupational
competence and identity in collaboration with the business sector. The KCB Foundation, through the 2jiajiri programme, has forged partnerships
that address skills and business capital gaps to enable the youth to
effectively engage in sustainable automotive microenterprises. The KCB
Foundation, Toyota Kenya Foundation Registered Trustees and Toyota
Kenya Ltd last year signed a partnership that will see automotive
engineering graduates certified to own Toyota Service centres. The partnership
will enhance skills development and business start-ups for youth in automotive
engineering. Young people will acquire automotive and
business skills that will enable them to start their own businesses along the
automotive engineering value chain. Top students of the KCB Foundation’s
2jiajiri automotive class will attend automotive engineering classes for a
further 12 months at the Toyota Academy under the Toyota Service Technician of
21st Century programme. Under the partnership, the KCB
Foundation is pooling resources in provision of scholarships to youth in auto
mechanics to instil skills and upskill them to appropriate levels to
compete for the TST21 certificate. The TKFRT is upskilling the trainees for one
year, starting with 12 who were the crème de la crème of the inaugural
class of 2016. Upon satisfactory completion, they will be certified as TST21 graduates recognised by Toyota Kenya Ltd.  Youth who benefit from the
programme will be certified to set up garages as Toyota Kenya Ltd Appointed
Service Centre, provided they meet the set criteria. They will then be
legible for seed capital from the KCB Foundation under the 2Jiajiri loan to set up
a TKASC, which will consist of a car wash, a maintenance bay and a spare parts
unit, thus creating several jobs for their peers.  One service centre can create
about 300 jobs. Out of the 12,500 beneficiaries of the 2jiajiri programme,
more than 500 youth have received automotive
training. Exploring such partnerships will contribute to a generation
of professionals for Kenya’s fledgling automotive industry and provide surplus
human capital for export to regional and global labour markets. Executive director, KCB Foundation.  jamwangi@kcb.co.ke   