The
Teachers’ Service Commission will in January recruit 2,205 teachers to replace
those who have left even as controversy rages over the transfer of estimated 180
principals to stations away from their home counties.  Those
to be replaced include teachers who retired, died or resigned between September
and November 2017.  A
circular by TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia to the secretaries and boards of
management of the affected schools says 1,681 teachers will be hired in primary
and 524 in secondary schools, respectively. The schools are spread around the
country.  “All
interested candidates should submit their applications to the respective County
directors and Boards of management not later than Friday, January 5, 2018,” the
circular reads. Yesterday,
Macharia maintained that the commission would not reverse the transfers that
have triggered a vicious war with teachers' unions. “It
is the policy that we will not be allowing head teachers and principals to
serve in their home counties or be in one school for more than nine years,”
Macharia told the Star. Read: Sossion threatens strike over 'inconsiderate' transfer of 557 principals The
Kenya National Union of Teachers Sunday protested the transfers, terming them ‘political’
and aimed at advancing vested interests. Secretary
general Wilson Sossion threatened to call a nationwide strike by teachers from
January if the transfers are not halted. He accused the TSC of disregarding the
safety of teachers deployed to ‘hostile’ and ‘insecurity prone’ regions such as
parts of northern Kenya and Rift Valley. “We
have seen attackers target non-locals, but it is unlikely that local teachers
would be targeted,” he said. In
November 2014, 17 teachers were executed in Mandera when al Shabaab militants
hijacked a Nairobi-bound bus. This forced non-local teachers to boycott work
for months, demanding transfers. Read: Maranda principal Boaz Owino transferred as TSC effects major reshuffle But
the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET), which last week
voiced its dissent, was measured in its reaction yesterday. It commended the
TSC move as designed to improve service delivery but one that needed further
consultation to ensure smooth implementation. KUPPET
Secretary General Akello Misori said the unions had an agreement with the TSC
to deploy teachers who are spouses around the same area and home when HIV/Aids
was declared a national disaster to reduce its spread among the profession. “We
need more discussions because there are other factors that if not considered in
execution might end up being disastrous,” Misori said yesterday. The
Star is in possession of the list of 181 principals transferred from various
schools across the country. It transfers heads of 31 national schools, 77 extra
county boys’ and 73 girls’ schools. The union insists the figure is over 500. Read: We will reject new TSC, ministry rules, they are punitive, say Knut officials Recruits The
TSC last recruited 1,730 teachers in August to replace those who had left. In
the new exercise recruitment slated for next month, in the post-primary group, the Central
region will get 91, Coast 30, Eastern 80, Nairobi 28, Northeastern 18, Nyanza
77, Rift Valley 128 and Western 70 slots.  Only
two slots will be reserved for tertiary institutions.  The
recruitment will increase the workforce to 315,935, which will still be 87,489
short of the required ratio. Of
the deficit, 39,913 are in primary while secondary schools have a shortage of
47,576 teachers.  According
to the Education ministry statistics, only six of the 47 counties are
teacher-sufficient in primary schools, while all secondary schools have
shortfalls.  However,
the unions argue that the country needs 100,000 teachers to meet the global
standard of teacher-student ratio. Policy Even
though they will be interviewed at the county level, the TSC makes it clear in
its circular that successful applicants must be prepared to work outside their
counties  —  the new policy of deployment that has generated heat
with the unions and a section of politicians.  “Successful
candidates are not limited to their home counties in deployment,” the TSC says.  
Yesterday, TSC spokesperson Kihumba Kamotho told the Star that it was within the
TSC mandate to implement the policy that requires teachers to work outside
their native counties.  “The
policy has been there, but this is the first time we are institutionalizing it
and we have started with the headship and recruits,” he said. "It
is good for teachers as it disassociates management from local politics,"
he explained.  Kamotho
said the policy draws its legal mandate from the Teachers' Code of Conduct,
which was developed in 2015 in consultation with teachers’ unions.  “This
was a negotiated agreement with stakeholders,” he said.  Speaking
at the release of the KCPE results last week, TSC CEO Nancy Macharia spelt out
measures that would be adopted by the commission in professionalizing
management of institutions. They include transfer of heads and their deputies
from their home counties, and limiting stay in an institution to a maximum of
nine and six years, respectively. Read: Principals shifted from home areas to end conflict of interest  Although
the policies were first developed by the TSC in 2007, their implementation was
scuttled by resistance from teachers' unions.  The
TSC argues that local teachers are prone to complacency, conflict of interest
and negative influence in the management of schools.  “We
are looking at having 100 per cent success of the policy especially starting
with primary schools,” Kamotho told the Star. “We will then gradually extend to
secondary schools, where we have challenges because of specialization of
subjects,” he added.  The
TSC argues that the new policy of de-localization will enhance cohesion. While
launching the policy in February 2007, then TSC secretary Gabriel Longoibon
said de-localization would help curb complacency among heads who overstay in
schools. Click here for the latest political news  