An environmental lobby
group has raised serious concerns about the continuous degradation of Makupa and
Tudor Creeks in Mombasa County. The Kibarani dumping site
and the systematic reclamation of sea at the Makupa Creek are environmental
injustices committed by county government and developers, according to Big
Ship, a membership organization in Mangrove conservancy. Mangroves, which covers 3,771ha
are the only gazetted forests in Mombasa County. However, 1,850 ha of these
forests have been destroyed representing 49.1 per cent. Bosco Juma, the director
of the Big Ship CBO in Mikindani area, said unless action is taken now Mombasa
will lose its mangrove forest cover in the near future. “The illegal dumping site
at Kibarani is one of the biggest problems in the Makupa Creek. Solid waste and
leachate dumped into the ocean negatively affects the growth of mangroves,”
said Juma. Speaking to Journalists on
Saturday at a section of Makupa Creek, where they have replanted over 60,000
new mangrove seedlings after they were destroyed, Juma said the dumpsite should
be relocated. “There is low primary
productivity due to reduced water clarity by the solid wastes and low dissolved
oxygen caused by chemical compounds in the water,” he said. According to Juma, it is
even of more concern that fishing activities take place in the area with such
high levels of chemical and solid waste that is managed through burning.  “This could pose a health
risk to human consuming such fish through bio magnification and bio-accumulation
of the chemical substance,” he said. The organization launched an
18-page report on the degradation of mangrove forest in Mombasa, asking the stakeholders
involved to intervene. The destruction of
mangrove forest and the marine ecosystem at large deteriorates the fishing
industry which is one of the major economic activities for the Mombasa locals. Illegal logging of mangroves
has also become is another serious challenge facing conservationists. In the last one decade, the
loss of mangrove has been reported to exceed 80 per cent. Tudor Creek is reported as
the most degraded with a cover loss of 86.9 per cent between 1992 and 2009,
said Juma.