Kimilili MP Didimus Baraza and several MCAs have declared that transferred headmasters will not set foot in the constituency's schools. Several schools in Bungoma county were affected by the recent mass transfer of the heads by the Teachers Service Commission. They include Friends School Kamusinga which topped in Western in KCSE examinations with four A plains a and a mean grade of 65.04. It was position 15 nationally. Principal Edwin Namachanja has been moved to Maranda High School. Kimilili Boys' High School principal Patrick wandili was moved to Mukumu Boys', Kibabii's Mathew Namunwa to Nyangesiba Boys' in Kisii after just three years and the Chesamisi principal to Malava Boys'. More on this: Maranda principal Boaz Owino transferred as TSC effects major reshuffle Also read: Principals shifted from home areas to end conflict of interest On Monday, Baraza, Kimilili MCA David Baraza, Maeni's Florence Wekesa and Agrey Mulongo of Kibingei locked the gates of Kimilili, Kamusinga and Chesamisi schools and said they must be consulted before the headmasters can report for duty. "I want to tell my Chief Whip at Parliament that I, as a Jubilee MP, am ready to be de-whipped for taking a stand other than the party's," said the MP. The legislator noted his people gave him the mandate to lead them so he will put their interests first. "I am going to lead from the front...I am a former military officer...I know how to do everything that will ensure no teacher lands at our giant academic institutions," he said. "We have put in place tough modalities to ensure teachers from Kisii and other regions do not come here." Baraza further said he will buy mattresses and take them to Kimilili police station so he and the other leaders sleep comfortably should they get arrested for their protest. "We will sleep well in the cells and let the people of Kimilili visit us because we are fighting for their rights. You cannot transfer a teacher and his head, who have fought tirelessly round the clock to improve performance," he said. "Who told [Education CS Fred] Matiang'i that we will allow people whose schools failed to come here and cause us to fail? We did not build these schools in a day...they took years...The church and the community have ensured our giant schools shine. "Where was Maitang'i when we were building these schools? We cannot have teachers taking credit for what they did not participate in." He added he will rally his Jubilee counterparts to block the minister's reappointment "for introducing what the sector cannot comprehend". NASA leader Raila Odinga downplayed the transfers of secondary school principals saying it is not a solution to the mass failures reported in this year's KCSE. Only 11 per cent of the candidates attained university entry grades. The former prime minister said the changes proposed by Matiang'i to delocalise schools will not make a difference. More on this: Principals' reshuffle won't cure KCSE mass failure, Raila tells Matiang'i Click here for the latest political stories