Primary heads yesterday appeared to have relaxed their strike and legal intervention threats if the state implements new curriculum next year. In their resolution at the end of the 13th annual meet in Mombasa, head teachers said they will support the government’s plan. On Wednesday, Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion hinted at either nationwide strike or court battle because of, among other issues, plans to effect the 2-6-6-3 programme in January. Read: Head teachers oppose Matiang'i order to merge primary, secondary boards   Sossion said the curriculum replacing 8-4-4 should not be rolled out, adding that teachers will not support it because it is foreign-driven and untimely. Sossion said if this happens, “We shall organise through you… and the judicial system.” This call received an overwhelming support from the teachers who had gathered at Sheikh Zayed. But Kenya Primary School Heads Teachers Association chairman Shem Ndolo said, “We are professional and we know [how] to do our things.” Sossion had problems with the shift from summative assessments to competency-based evaluation which head teachers eventually resolved to support. The secretary general described it as a failed system. “US, Britain, Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa have tried it and failed. What miracle do you expect in Kenya?” he said. Sossion said teachers will lose jobs if some of their employers and Education CS Fred Matiang’i’s policies are implemented. More on this: Matiang'i merges boards of primary, high schools to end turf wars Kepsha secretary general David Mavuta said the conference resolved to support the government in harmonising interventions in Early Education learning programmes. He said they will embrace ICT integration sponsored by the state. Sossion said they will work with the anti-FGM board to protect girls. “We shall communicate to the government and other stakeholders on challenges the head teachers face,” he said. Kepsha has made it mandatory for all primary heads to be members. Mavuta asked the government to hasten school electrification. Kepsha asked the Teachers’ Service Commission to employ more teachers in addition to the 5,000. There is a deficit of 90,000 tutors. Click here for latest political news