When nurses downed their tools for five months, the health sector was at a standstill. Yes, doctors and clinicians were at work, but the critical staff – the nurses – were not. It was during this time that the condition of a three-year-old boy diagnosed with severe pneumonia went from bad to worse. As he was struggling to breathe, his mother Maximilla searched frantically for help at Lodwar County Hospital. His ragged, wet lungs struggled as pneumonia ravaged his body. Without oxygen, the biggest infectious killer of children might have claimed another victim in a matter of minutes. Had he not been resuscitated by a nurse, Jackson may have become another statistic. The nurse happened to be visiting the hospital as part of Save the Children’s emergency response to the drought wreaking havoc across East Africa. There was only one overworked nurse in the paediatric ward, so Jedidah stepped in. Fifty per cent of health facilities in drought-affected counties were closed during this the five months. National immunisation coverage rates dropped by almost a fifth and the number of women delivering in clinics fell by a third. In some extreme cases, maternal deaths doubled. Even though the nurses' strike was called off, the impact can still be felt. Save the Children stepped in during this humanitarian crisis in the national health sector and began posting full-time salaried nurses to hospitals in areas worst hit by the drought. These nurses were partially covering the gap in trained staff able to treat malnourished children, whose chances of survival are often complicated by deadly diseases that prey on the weak and vulnerable; anyone who lacks adequate nutrition to fight off infection. More than 1,000 people have tested positive for malaria in Marsabit and other counties, just weeks after the deadly disease killed more than 26 people. The government and NGOs have managed to contain an outbreak of cholera, but the health workers' strike provided an opportunity for malaria to kill children, after they survived the severe drought. Besides the strike, the prolonged election period has delayed payments from the national government to the counties, hampering healthcare services at the local level. In Lodwar, also currently suffering a spike in malaria, the county has a shortage of essential medicines and commodities to manage the condition. The last consignment was in July. The county’s health system is not fully operational, with fuel shortages affecting the availability of ambulances. Vaccines are not delivered as there is no safe mode of transport to move them at the required cold temperature. The year 2017 has been one of the worst for the public health sector in Kenya’s history.  The danger to children is compounded by the drought, which has decimated harvests since 2015. Kenya is suffering its worst drought in a generation, with four consecutive failed rain seasons in the northern counties of Turkana, Wajir and Mandera. The number of people in need of humanitarian assistance doubled in just six months, from 2.7 million in February to 5.6 million in September 2017. Rates of severe acute malnutrition are worse in some areas of Northern Kenya than those of the 2011 famine, which killed more than a quarter million people. These people died in vain, mainly through preventable diseases, which you are nine times more likely to catch if you are malnourished. Posting nurses to keep hospitals running offered a temporary solution. Nurses are back at work, for now, but the health system must remain a political and humanitarian priority, because children cannot be allowed to die. Jackson survived and is doing well, but what about the others? Save the children country director 