On November 30, art enthusiasts trooped to Nairobi’s Villa Rosa Kempinski to experience a first-of-its-kind gallery exhibition organised by Guaranty Trust Bank (Kenya) and curated by William Ndwiga of the Little Art Gallery. The exhibit, christened “Contemporary Art: A Snippet. . .” was a cocktail show that offered the audience with a display that was appealing to those of sophisticated and discerning tastes. The evening exhibition brought together works from leading visual artists like Coster Ojwang, Michael Soi, Anne Mwiti, Michael Musyoka, Joshua Mainga, Peter Elunga’at, Douglas Musyoki, Emily Odongo and Patrick Kinuthia.  Also on display were works by Tanzanian Haji Chilonga, Ugandan Jjuuko Hoods and Yassir Ali from Sudan. On display were acrylic, oil and mixed media on canvas paintings and presentations of abstraction, political commentary and cultural depictions as was best presented by each and every artist who was showcasing. Addressing the attendees at the venue was the GTBank Kenya MD Ibukun Odegbaike, who expressed the banks’ will to promote and support African art while ensuring their consumers’ preferences are maintained and upheld. “With this event, we have not only intentionally promoted African art but have also reiterated our dedication to ensuring our customers’ unique tastes are appreciated,” Odegbaike said. GTBank, which already boasts of its online art platform Art 365, now looks to the future with plans of doing a lot more for the local art scene by expanding the reach for the artists and their works in order to retail effectively. “Indeed, this event is one of many of its kind that we intend to host in the near future. At GTBank, art is one of the four pillars of our Corporate Social Responsibilit; Art is close to our hearts,” Odegbaike said. “GTBank has supported art over the years, endeavouring to provide enabling platforms for African art, not just to become more visible and appreciated but also be more commercially viable.”  The event granted the attendees with the opportunity to interact with the artists and network among themselves.  Art lovers were also treated to a live drawing session of quick caricatures from artists Paul Njihia and James Njoroge. The art pieces on display were on sale with prices hitting as high as Sh500,000.