Kisii Governor James Ongwae has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga to embrace dialogue to foster healing following the last general elections. Ongwae said it is important for the country’s top political leadership to deal with the divisions that followed the August 8 election. "Elections are now over and we all know they were divisive. Dialogue is the only way forward because differences will always be there even at family level," he said on Saturday. He made the remarks during the lighting of the governor's Christmas tree in Kisii to mark the start of the end of year festivities.  The sentiments followed in the wake of the Opposition insisting that they will continue with the plan to swear in Raila, amid criticism that the oath amounts to treason. AG Githu Muigai among other leaders have vehemently opposed the idea asking the ODM leader "not to tempt the government" with the plan. Read: You're wrong on treason, AG tells Orengo  Ongwae further hailed Kisii schools that registered an exemplary performance in the recently released KCSE results. Riokindo Boys, Kisii School, St Charles Lwanga Ichuni Girls and Nyabisase were among the schools that shone in the tests. The county boss urged Kenyans to reach out to one another during the holidays, especially to the less fortunate in line with the Christmas traditions. Also read: The evolution of Christmas celebrations through the decades "As we reach out to family and friends, I hope we shall also open our hearts to those who are in need, less fortunate than ourselves, families who have lost their loved ones, and the homeless." Ongwae further asked the ministry of education to address the issue of many candidates who failed to score the minimum university entry grade. "Matters education need careful consideration," he said. The meeting was attended by a host of CECs, Kisii deputy speaker Davins Okindo, chief officers and other invited guests.  See: KQ treats travellers to business class flights, cakes for Christmas Click here for the latest political news    