Harambee Stars head coach Paul Put is upbeat that they have what it takes to overcome Burundi today in today’s semi-final of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. The winner of today’s semi will face either Uganda Cranes or Zanzibar Heroes in Sunday’s final at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County. The two sides clash tomorrow in Kisumu. “We are ready for the game on Thursday (today) and we hope for a good result. We want to make our fans happy by playing in the final,” said Put. He said he is happy with the progress the team is making since he took over. “It is not easy to coach a team a few days after taking over but it has given me a perfect opportunity to assess the local-based players,” said the Belgian. Put added: “They have made good progress since the first game. This is good squad with the right mentality and discipline.” He, however, said Kariobangi Sharks’ striker Masoud Juma will miss the match with an injury. “He is better today but he is out of the semi-final game against Burundi,” said the coach. Juma, the SportPesa Premier League ‘Golden Boot’ winner sat out of yesterday’s training but underwent light training alone. The Belgian took the players through their paces in closed door session yesterday afternoon after their opponents Burundi left the pitch. Kenya sailed to last four as Group ‘A’ leaders with 8 points after two wins and two draws while Burundi finished second with five points. Youngsters Vincent Oburu and Ovella Ochieng will carry the country’s hopes. Ochieng put a sublime performance against Tanzania, which he capped with an assist for Oburu to score the all important goal. Posta Rangers goalkeeper Patrick Matasi is expected to continue in goal with captain Musa Mohammed, Jockins Atudo, Dennis Sikhayi and Wesley Onguso marshalling the defence. The midfield will be manned by Ernest Wendo, Patillah Omotto, Chrispin Oduor and George Odhiambo unless Put decides to tinkers with the team which played the last group game in Machakos. Fans will pay Sh100 for terraces and Sh500 for the VIP stand according to orgainsers. Yesterday, FKF Nyanza North chairman George Ongudi appealed to fans from the region to turn up in large numbers and cheer the national team.