Manufacturers lobby Kenya Association of Manufacturers is asking partner states in East Africa to establish mutual recognition agreements on intellectual property rights to boost cross-border trade. This is after delays in the enaction into law of the EAC Anti-Counterfeit bill drafted in 2011 that has seen individual countries continue to revise their laws and regulations as they grapple with the vice,hence leading to the divergent nature of these laws with other partner states. The bill seeks to provide for a uniform definition of counterfeit, scope of coverage, establishment of national anti-counterfeit agencies, appointment of inspectors, and remedies. “Often times, the issue of illicit trade in the individual EAC partner states are not treated with severity as it deserves. Other times, the vices are increasingly becoming sophisticated, using the newest technologies to evade detection, and consequently overwhelming current legal and regulatory measures put in place,” Kenya Association of Manufacturers chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said in a statement to the Star. Circumvention, infringement and violation of laws, regulations, licensing regimes, taxation systems and embargoes are some of the key challenges to curbing counterfeiting and piracy. According to a recent 2017 study, EAC Intellectual Property Rights Regime Study, counterfeiting and piracy are key in undermining the concept of a free and open market which are fundamental to enhancement of innovation and creativity, competitiveness, increased investment, job creation and improved economic situation in Kenya and the EAC partner states. The two also undermine industries in the region, poses health risks to consumers, sabotages tourism, stunts innovation and breeds lawlessness. Other disadvantages brought about by counterfeit and piracy as pointed out by the industry experts include evasion of tax by counterfeit products, putting jobs of those in the business at risks of facing jail terms, and affecting a country’s capacity to supply local demand and export to other markets. In the 2017 Global Innovation Index, Kenya and Rwanda were picked out as being among 17 Global ‘Innovation achievers’ for putting in place institutions that provide good governance in protecting and incentivizing businesses to keep innovating for the sake of their economic development. However, Wakiaga noted that while innovation aims to increase productive jobs and therefore gainful employment for citizens, counterfeiting dilutes this objective and diverts a huge portion of country resources towards attempts to disrupt these illegal operations. According to a study on the vice of counterfeiting in Kenya which was done in 2012, it is estimated that Kenyan manufacturers are losing at least 40 per cent of their market share to counterfeiters. This is approximately Sh30 billion per year, while the Government loses Sh6 billion annually as potential tax revenue.  