Learning will not resume on January 2 if TSC does not cancel the mass transfer of head teachers and their deputies. This was the warning on Tuesday by Wilson Sossion, who is secretary general of Kenya National Union of Teachers. Teachers have gone on strike several times before over salaries and better working conditions. Read: Principals shifted from home areas to end conflict of interest Sossion said in a statement that the Teachers Service Commission "unleashed inconsiderate mass transfer of tutors". "The Ministry of Education and TSC have remained unilateral in initiating new ideas with total disregard to effects on the general public and other cardinal players in the sector, including teachers." Sossion asked the 557 affected principals to ignore the commission's directive until a proper agreement is reached. He noted the need to execute a civilised movement of teachers as their intent is not to cause unnecessary disruption in the sector. "We totally oppose the unilateral decision to transfer 557 principals as we consider the idea ill-conceived and suspect the plotters do not mean well," he said, adding the outcomes could be disastrous. Citing poor performance in schools, he added: "The sector has [demoralised] hardworking and successful teachers who are taking this action as punishment." The KNUT boss further called for the immediate removal of the recently introduced mandatory teacher appraisals whose end results, he said, will affect teachers and the profession negatively. "It is our position that the appraisals development and contracting shall not apply in 2018. It is laborious, tedious, time-consuming and adds no value to teaching. Teachers of Kenya have rejected it so it shall not apply in 2018." The union also called for recognition of teachers who have acquired new and higher qualifications, saying "the intellectual rights of teachers with new and higher qualifications have been abused for far too long by the employer." Earlier today, Kimilili MP Didimus Baraza led MCAs in rejecting the transfer of principals to schools in the constituency. They locked the gates of Kimilili, Kamusinga and Chesamisi schools and said they must be consulted before the headmasters can report for duty. More on this: Kimilili politicians scold Matiang'i, lock schools to keep new principals off Also see: [VIDEO] Sossion rejects Matiang'i's education reforms, says tragedy looming Click here for the latest political stories 