The Inspector General of Police has said he failed to execute a warrant of arrest against the Defence PS after he was told he had applied for a stay of the order. “I was unable to take the warrant based on the application by the PS seeking to stay orders of the sentence given on November 23 and against the warrant issued on November 29,” Joseph Boinnet said. However, the applicant’s lawyer Lucy Momanyi said she was not aware of any application of stay of the order or any notice of appeal filed at the Court of Appeal filed by the respondents. “There is no such application. When the respondent’s lawyer informed me of the application, I went to the Court of Appeal to confirm the same but found no such file,” Momanyi said. She added that Boinnet was to explain why he cannot execute the orders given by the court. “A valid judgment delivered in 2015 that has not been appealed asking the ministry to pay the money has never been followed by any action,”she said. Momanyi further said PS Saitoti Torome has not refused to pay the money. An authority was sought from the Attorney General who gave permission for the payment but the Treasury has refused to release the funds. Momanyi said failure of the PS to pay the funds is criminal and the IG failing to execute the orders is also criminal. She asked the office of the DPP to intervene. Justice Joseph Sergon said the application by the respondents was not satisfactory and ordered that the IG executes the warrant against Torome and appears in court on Monday next week. On Monday, the court summoned Boinnet to explain why he had not arrested the PS for failing to pay a family Sh17 million. Sergon gave the order after the PS disobeyed the order issued on May 30, 2016, compelling him as the Defence PS to pay. Torome was to be jailed on Monday for contempt of court. He did not appear in court. “I do not understand why the PS, who is the accounting officer, does not want to pay the applicant. He may be enjoying some protection, which is the reason why he does not appear in court,” the judge said. Last month, the same court sentenced the PS to six months in civil jail for contempt and issued with another warrant on November 30 through the office of the IG. Sergon passed the sentence after Torome failed to obey an order to pay Sh17,257,930 to a family which gave its land to the government in 2006.