NASA supporters chased Water CS Eugene Wamalwa from the Maragoli Cultural Festival on Tuesday saying they did not want a Jubilee leader there. The Cabinet Secretary left the dais accompanied by Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, amid shouts by Opposition supporters. They declared that they did not want a Jubilee Party leader at the function that took place at Mbale Municipal Grounds.  NASA supporters scamper for safety after police officers fired in the air to prevent chaos during the Maragoli Cultural Festival at Mbale Municipal Grounds, December 26, 2017. /JOSEPH JAMENYA The festival had seemed peaceful and Mudavadi, a NASA principal, had stood to speak when a sleek Toyota Prado drove past the crowd and parked next to the dais. Wamalwa emerged from the vehicle and waved at Mudavadi on the way to his seat. A crowd then started shouting "Aende! Aende! (He should leave)", but the Cabinet Secretary took his seat while smiling. Mudavadi tried to carry on with his address but the people did not let him. Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi stood to help and after consulting his boss, they approached Wamalwa and talked to him for a few minutes. The CS stood and walked to his car with Mudavadi, who is NASA's chief campaigner.  NASA supporters scamper for safety after police officers fired in the air to prevent chaos during the Maragoli Cultural Festival at Mbale Municipal Grounds, December 26, 2017. /JOSEPH JAMENYA Musalia led Wamalwa to waiting car amid the protest. They shook hands before the minister got in and the driver left, as crowds 'escorted' him. Near the exit, a group hurled stones at the minister's car prompting police to shoot in the air to clear the way. About 10 minutes later,the Amani chief continued with his speech in which he noted the police service needed reforms. He said it was unfortunate that NASA presidential candidate and ODM leader Raila Odinga was victimised by police and his supporters teargassed at the JKIA when he returned from a tour of the United States, “So many leaders, including Kenneth Matiba, Mwai Kibaki, Tom Mboya and even President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, have been welcomed by their supports, Why not Raila?" More on this: [Photos] Raila lands at JKIA amid gunshots, tear gas  NASA supporters scamper for safety after police officers fired in the air to prevent chaos during the Maragoli Cultural Festival at Mbale Municipal Grounds, December 26, 2017. /JOSEPH JAMENYA COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli, who was the guest of honour at the annual Boxing Day festival, said he was shocked about what happened to Wamalwa. Click here for the latest political stories 