Every morning, as Mama Otieno opens her kiosk in Kondele, so is Mama Kamau waking up just as early to pick her tea in Othaya while Mama Ali in Kongowea prepares her madafu. Why are they all waking up this early? They have mouths to feed and brains to educate and must therefore work to ensure that they make ends meet. They are not waiting on their leaders, even when they are from their same tribe, to make things happen for them. We are at a situation where we have become overly conscious of our tribes due to the divisive elections as well as the continued reckless talk by some leaders. We seem to have forgotten that we have a common destiny, where if the country burns, we all burn with it and when it prospers, we all prosper. Today, we mark the 54th Jamhuri Day at a time when the country is divided as a result of the prolonged election period. To make matters even more complicated, there has been talk of the supposed swearing-in [now postponed indefinitely] of opposition leader Raila Odinga today. Kenya is blessed with diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds that, sadly, have been used to divide us politically. Tribe has become more of a liability than an asset for us as a people, even when we shun it for common interests. As our forefathers fought for independence, the different tribes that make up our nation came together with one goal. They were tired of foreigners occupying our land and ruling as if it was their own and they therefore resolved to unite and fight for the freedom of our nation. As they fought, their patriotism and desire to be free drove every tribe and united the nation towards one common enemy. It was not each man for himself; it never occurred to them that they could fight the White man as separate entities. The Kapenguria Six — Bildad Kaggia, Kung’u Karumba, Jomo Kenyatta, Fred Kubai, Paul Ngei and Achieng’ Oneko — were jailed together in Northern Kenya and were strong because they united, despite the fact that they represented different tribes. Today, our common enemy is not the White ruler but poor healthcare, lack of proper sanitation, corruption, lack of passable roads and high illiteracy levels, among other challenges. Our common destiny is a united nation able to sustain itself. In short, there is nothing wrong in belonging to a certain tribe, as, just like gender, we never chose to be born that way. What is wrong is for us to carry the notion that we are superior to others, whether we control political or economic power. We will never change our tribes, but we can change how we use our tribal affiliation. This Jamhuri Day, it’s time for us to cherish and celebrate the diversity of our nation and use this to make our nation stronger. The different tribes, interests and political inclinations, make our nation stronger, not weaker and this is what we should be seeking collectively. Just as our forefathers fought against the common enemy, colonialism, so all Kenyans must unite and fight against our common enemy — tribalism, politics of hate and fear, ignorance and poverty. We must do everything possible to transform this country, look towards the future, and build a nation that we will all be proud of. When we do this, we will have more that unites us rather than running into our tribal cocoon when we feel threatened by the advancement of others that are not necessarily of our tribe. Bob Marley in Redemption Song, asks us to emancipate ourselves from mental slavery. We must emancipate ourselves from the tribal thinking that has captured our imagination, distracting us from our future and common aspirations. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda