With Uhuru Kenyatta’s inauguration and swearing in for a second term, the race for the presidency is finally settled. That game is over! My party, the Thirdway Alliance Kenya, pursuant to its fifth pillar, “Protecting and enforcing the Constitution, devolution and the rule of law”, welcomes President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second term following the unanimous decision of the Supreme Court of Kenya.  That decision brought electioneering and politicking on the presidential race to an end. It ushered in a period of expectation by Kenyans and the world from the government of the day. That is where we should all now shift our focus to.   THIRDWAY ALLIANCE AS WATCHDOG As we promised Kenyans at our concession speech, our party will support any government formed in accordance with our constitution and the rule of law. We will support any such government, including Uhuru’s, but we shall never do that blindly.  We shall remain constructively critical of the government and call it into account on every policy direction it takes, to ensure government policy remains transformational of Kenya and its people. Why, because we offer alternative political agenda for Kenya. Our criticism will aim to ensure the government delivers services effectively to all Kenyans, regardless of electoral outcome. After all, in words, Uhuru confirmed that he is today the President of those who voted and did not vote for him. We seek and we shall pursue constructive opposition politics. The President’s speech on November 28 should be the first basis upon which Kenyans should call him to account going forward. Thirdway Alliance begins its check on the government by sharing our perspective on the President’s promise to Kenyans on that day.  The President addressed various issues that affect the socioeconomic well-being of Kenyans, including agriculture and food security, manufacturing, healthcare, education, and our current political challenges. This was a welcome move and gives hope that the President will tackle them. It is, therefore, the President’s promise to Kenyans, which we shall remind him to keep.   REACHOUT TO COMPETITORS It is commendable that the President said he would borrow good ideas from his competitors, including Thirdway Alliance, in the running of his administration. We see this as magnanimity and acceptance of the fact that no one has monopoly of knowledge and ideas that could benefit the society. This has given us more reason, as a party, to share our perspective on the President’s speech.   Our comments seek to help the President tackle the country’s problems in a more effective manner, and to urge him to focus on other important matters that he seemed to have forgotten. Our work as the opposition is to provide alternative thoughts and solutions to the government. We trust that the government of the day will use constructive criticism to remedy the problems bogging down our country. To that extent, we will speak to nine key issues below.   CORRUPTION In our books, as Thirdway Alliance Kenya, corruption is actually theft of public resources and money. While the President promised more stringent and prudent fiscal discipline in government, he ought to have acknowledged that corruption is a great challenge that robs development projects and Kenyans of billions of shillings annually.  The President should have painted the picture of how much we lose annually to thieves of public money. A good reference would have been the Auditor General’s report. We would have expected the President to borrow from our manifesto to enable him not only lead the fight against corruption but win the war against corruption.  A successful fight against theft of public funds would decorate his road to retirement and leave a lasting legacy. We had proposed in our manifesto to introduce a department that would oversee the control of public procurement prices for goods and services to guide procurement in all public organisations, reducing wastage and the mega profits made by government suppliers, among other policy proposals aimed at taming the corruption behemoth.  The President, in our view, seemed to ignore the negative impacts of corruption on the economic growth of our country. Fighting and ending corruption should be the President’s main agenda in his second term. We urge the President to personally engage in the fight against theft of public resources as a duty and not a wish. We purpose, as a political party, to remind the President and his administration of the urgent need to end theft of public resources. In fact, on March 8 last year, the then chairman of the EACC owned up that Kenya was losing a third of the budget, approximately Sh600 billion, to corruption. Taking a cursory look at the Auditor General’s reports for national and county governments, the above estimates are not far-fetched. The President must, therefore, declare corruption a national disaster and immediately embark on stringent measures to stop theft of public funds.   BALLOONING PUBLIC DEBT We expected the President to state the amount owing as well as what it means to each individual Kenyan. That would have vividly shown the gravity of the debt. It is our understanding that each Kenyan, as of this day and time, owes not less than Sh90,000, since our public debt stood at Sh4.482 trillion as at September 30, according to Central Bank of Kenya figures. The President missed an opportunity to explicitly explain how he would mitigate negative effects of the current high cost of public debt. He should have also made proposals on the measures he expects to implement in his second term to ensure his administration reduces its overreliance on debt.  Experts and political commentators have in the past criticised the insatiable debt capacity of Uhuru’s administration. In fact, the President ought to have acknowledged that the ballooning public debt has been fuelled by the unabated stealing of public funds by public servants and greedy businessmen through procurement of projects. It is estimated this year alone, we borrowed Sh700 billion; but we also stole Sh700 billion! Sadly, we borrow to steal. We propose that the government reorganises fiscal management by expanding the tax net and reducing acquisition of new debts. It is possible to fund 90 per cent of our budget with proceeds from local revenues.   NATIONAL COHESION While the President passingly touched on our historical political challenges, he did not address current divisions in the country that have been generated by tribe-based politics, which is spearheaded by known politicians in the so-called big political coalitions. The nation urgently needs healing and reconciliatory process that will ensure not only peace but also trust among citizens.  As President, Uhuru must play a father figure role to all Kenyans going forward, the same way a parent would treat and love all his children equally. Kenya is more tribally divided than ever before because of cheap politics by politicians who use their tribal bases as pawns for selfish political gains. On national cohesion, we expected the President to promise Kenyans that he will not form a Cabinet like the current one, where almost half of Cabinet Secretaries are from two tribes. The President must invoke the provisions of Article 130 ( 2 ), which explicitly states that, “the composition of the national executive shall reflect the regional and ethnic diversity of the people of Kenya”. In plain language, this means the President has no choice but to incorporate all 44 tribes of Kenya into his Cabinet.  This would be the hallmark of his legacy, as it would address the elusive question of inclusivity. For the avoidance of doubt, the President could borrow the following formula from Thirdway Alliance Kenya: pick his first 22 Cabinet slots from 22 different ethnic groups in Kenya; the next 22 slots of Permanent Secretaries from yet a new different set of ethnic groups of Kenyans not appointed as Cabinet Secretaries.  In fact, the President and Deputy President [William Ruto] already represent two tribes in the Executive. That way, the President would have the face of Kenya in the Executive. Uhuru has an opportunity to prove that he can trust and work with qualified Kenyans regardless of their ethnic extraction. The President, therefore, has an opportunity to demonstrate that his critics are not on a witch-hunt mission. While we appreciate the gesture that the President is a leader willing to meet his opponents for the sake of unity, we propose that this must go beyond a few individuals. We urge him to ensure that the ordinary citizens become part and parcel of his unity plans. Do not run the risk of assuaging bloated political egos of some individual, for they may hold you at ransom and make your second term a season in hell. That may be their intention. Beware, Mr President!   COST OF LIVING The President’s speech failed to candidly address poverty, cost of living and overtaxation of low-income earners.Thirdway Alliance manifesto had proposed to reduce taxation for low-income earners to increase their disposable income and, hence, increase their capacity to afford more goods and services.  We, therefore, expected that the President would come up measures that would reduce the suffering of the poor masses. While we are aware that he focussed on policies that will expand and increase productivity in agriculture and manufacturing, we encourage the President to go beyond that and design a master plan that will eradicate poverty and stabilise consumer prices. In this regard, the President could have indicated how he has used and would once again utilise the Equalisation Fund to bring equity across the country. We hope in his next address to the nation, he would speak to his issue.   LOSS OF LIVES We are saddened that several people lost their lives during the electioneering period. It breaks our heart that so far, five little and innocent children took the bullet that ended their lives for all the wrong reasons, including political bickering and a false sense of political entitlement.  While we are aware that the President has no control over the actions of those who withdrew from the elections, we would have expected him to address the underlying issues and apologise for the unfortunate deaths.  In fact, the President should have pointed out that firm legal action will be taken on those responsible for the deaths of innocent Kenyans, whether the police, thugs as well as political gangsters masquerading as leaders. We expected that the blame should squarely be placed where it belongs: the arena of political incitement. The President already set the pace when he warned of “ghost” public servants. He should have also gone a step further to name those politicians as well as police who are the cause of the deaths. At the very least, the President should have promised that he would follow on the investigations to expose both the killers of innocent Kenyans and those that necessitated the killing to take place.     DEVOLUTION The President did not make specific address on matters devolution. Meaningful social economic development in Kenya will be achieved faster if we invest more in our counties. Devolution of funds was intended to end social and economic injustice in Kenya. We, therefore, urge the President to look at increasing funds allocation to the counties to ensure we inject more resources to the counties and create a platform for growth. This will also help end the notion that some Kenyans are segregated by the national government.  The rationale for increased funds to the counties is very simple: A simple deconstruction of Kenya gives you all the 47 counties and the 45 millions of Kenyans. The “national”, therefore, remains an abstract reality. The people of Kenya and their daily needs are felt at the counties. Therefore, more money should go to the counties without any hesitation.  We, however, warn that counties must follow strict fiscal policy and ensure unds are not lost through theft. To this end, the President should follow every shilling devolved to the county. Those found culpable should be jailed, their assets repossessed, and they should further be published in the corruption hall of shame.     EDUCATION
 The President’s speech moderately focussed on improved education in the country. However, we expected him to focus more on ending inequality in education. In our manifesto, we proposed to abolish school fees in all public learning institutions and also promised to standardise all public learning and training institutions to end inequality. Our expectation is that the President will accommodate our views and ensure every Kenyan has an equal opportunity to access high quality education from all our public schools and institutions of higher learning. We at Thirdway Alliance believe that education is the greatest equaliser. It is for these reasons that the son of a nomad from Kapedo ran for President and shared his ideas to the nation. That is the benefit of education.    MEDIUM-TERM PLAN
 The President must revise the current MTP and ensure the nation embarks on a national cohesion and reconciliation path that will provide a fertile ground for rapid social and economic transformation. In our opinion, focus should be how to put money into every Kenyan pocket. The benefit of this would introduce issue-based politics, as opposed to the current style of politics that is tribal and acrimonious without much basis.     PAN-AFRICANISM While we highly support the spirit of Pan-Africanism, as extended by the President to our African brothers and sisters wishing to visit Kenya, we believe that generosity should not have been granted in a blanket manner, unless Kenyans, too, were to benefit from similar gestures in many African countries. In the most recent past, ordinary Kenyans have suffered, been harassed and even  killed while in our neighboring countries.  It is not a secret that Kenyans are languishing in jails in South Sudan. A Kenyan died in an Ethiopian prison; Kenyans have been arrested and mistreated in Uganda for fishing on Lake Victoria and in Tanzania for just crossing the border, and in fact their property auctioned arbitrarily.  These cases seriously undermine the spirit of cooperation and deepening integration in the East African Community. Assuming the President did not want to address those issues due to the presence of leaders from those countries, I hope that he shall follow this quietly with a view to ending the mistreatment of Kenyans by our neighbours. A related issue about good Pan-Africanism is the fact that some of our neighbours appear not to respect our boundaries and are beginning to claim some parts of our country.   Lastly, it is our unsolicited advice to the President that he prioritises national unity because a divided Kenya is bad for us Kenyans, the region and the international community. Kenya should stand tall in the region and in Africa. There is no country more beautiful than Kenya. We must all jealously protect her. The President is our captain. He should unite Kenyans without necessarily pleasing individuals or groups.