  The once
greatest world Super Power, the United States of America, is about to elect a
pedophile and accused child molester to one of its highest noble Houses, the US
Senate.  There
are any number of reasons that explain this unfortunate turn of events in the US
but a common denominator that expounds it all is power: To have power or take
it away. In the
case of the country being poised to have a pedophile and accused child molester
as one of its senators, put that on the column wanting power by all means. The US
Senate, one of two legislative houses in the country — and some argue the more
important of the two — is currently almost evenly balanced between the Democrats
and the Republicans, with the latter having an edge by only two seats.  Each
seat in the US Senate is crucial in making or preventing any President’s agenda.
So, rather than have the Alabama seat go to a Democrat, Donald Trump and many
in the Republican Party have taken the position they’ll rather this kind of an
individual hold that seat so they can pursue whatever agenda they have. That
may be a worthwhile accomplishment from a narrow, partisan standpoint but if it
comes to pass, it’ll be the very definition of decay in moral decency and the
loss of the country’s pride a beacon of hope and success for the rest of the
world to follow. That’s
an example of how low things have gone in terms of getting power or keeping it
in the US. On the other hand, there’s taking away power, which is represented
by the unlikely election of Trump as President and now the country and the rest
of the world is suffering from his presidency. Trump
was elected largely because he rode on resentment among a large swath of
American White voters, who have come to hate Washington and so, the argument
went, they had to take power away from the “establishment” and give it to an
outsider like Trump. That
former President Barrck Obama was someone they didn’t want in office but was
elected and reelected against their wishes, was also a factor in some of these
White voters who wanted one of them to come into the White House and “clean” it
of Obama’s occupancy. The latter is all that Trump has been doing since he got
into office — no major legislative accomplishment to speak of but the man has
been busy trying to erase much of what Obama did. Some Republicans are,
however, saying no to some of these things. In
other words, rather than using the opportunity of being elected President to
unite this deeply divided country, Trump has opted to continue with his
campaign stupidity that only appeals to about 35 per cent of the country,
instead of acting presidential and finding ways to appeal to the rest of the
country, even at the expense of losing some or even all of these 35 per cent he
doesn’t need to be reelected. President
Uhuru Kenyatta faces the same choice: He can either cater to the 35-40 per cent
who elected him or, he can put country first and reach out to the opposition in
efforts to bring to his corner the rest of the country that did not vote for
him and don’t want him in office. This is
not a difficult thing to do but the history of politics around the world
clearly shows us people blinded by power or the desire to have or keep it by
all means ultimately do more harm to themselves, and the very countries they
want to lead kwa kifua. This leaves
no doubt the quest for power or desire to keep it has nothing to do with the
wellbeing of the country’s populace but merely preservation of self and their
cronies. That’s never a good thing. President
Uhuru, this is your moment. Rise-up to the occasion, reach out to Raila Odinga and
have a genuine dialogue with a view to uniting the country and preventing the
doom that’s certain to follow were Raila and NASA to go ahead with his planned
swearing-in, whose legality, probity or wisdom will be irrelevant once the
paste is out of the tube.   Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and
political commentator in the United States