Salgaa is perhaps the most notorious black spot in the country if the number of road accidents that have happened along the road is anything to go by. More than 100 people have perished in the area this month alone, the latest being the 36 lives who died early today. The 14 kilometre stretch on the Nakuru-Eldoret highway has become synonymous with gruesome accidents that have claimed hundreds of lives over the years.  Today's accident occurred after a bus transporting passengers from Busia collided head-on with a trailer at Migaa at around 3:30 am. Concerted efforts by the government to curb fatal crashes on the notorious black spot have yielded no results. Read: BLOODY DECEMBER: 36 perish in another Salgaa accident on New Year's Eve Police and the National Transport and Safety Authority have blamed most of the accidents on speeding, careless overtaking and free-wheeling, especially by truck drivers. As the year comes to an end, we compile the number of accidents that have occurred along the notorious bloody stretch this year. The accidents have robbed dozens of families of their loved ones and left tens of others with injuries. In 2017, the spate of crashes started on March 11 when a Siaya county vehicle rammed into a stationary trailer at a parking bay killing three people. Rift Valley provincial traffic boss Ziro Arome said the driver of the car had been speeding and lost control when he reached the bay. Two of the victims were pedestrians who were hit as they walked by the roadside. The third victim was the driver of the trailer who was knocked down as he supervised a tyre repair. On November 1, four people died after a trailer travelling from Eldoret hit several vehicles near the Salgaa blackspot. The speeding vehicle rammed several vehicles after it hit a bump and lost control in the 6 pm accident. Several other people sustained serious injuries in the accident that involved five other trailers. Slightly over three weeks later on November 19, 12 people perished in another grisly road accident near Salgaa after a Nakuru-bound Great Rift shuttle collided with a trailer. Witnesses said the driver lost control after hitting a cow and veered off his lane into an oncoming trailer. All the 11 passengers aboard the matatu and its driver died on the spot while the driver of the trailer and a passenger sustained serious injuries. Barely a week later on November 24, a bus driver died while ten passengers were injured after the bus collided with a trailer. The accident happened near Nakuru Teachers Training College as the bus was travelling from Eldoret to Nairobi.  The latest and most gruesome accident along the Salgaa blackspot is the December 31 crash involving a bus and a trailer. Two other accidents within the proximity of the notorious stretch had previously happened at Makutano Junction near Eldama Ravine and at Kamara near Sachangwan. The accident at Makutano claimed five lives in the 9 pm accident while the one at Kamara claimed the lives of six members of a Kalenjin music band. NTSA is considering building a dual carriageway between Salgaa and Sachangwan to minimize the accidents which are mainly head-on collisions. Read: The horror of serial crashes on the Sachangwan to Salgaa road   Also read: Three bishops perish in Embu road crash  