Senate Minority leader Moses Wetang'ula has called for the disbandment of NTSA following road accident that claimed at least 60 lives. The NASA co-principal accused NTSA director Francis Meja of sleeping on the job and mismanaging the authority.  He cited the horrific Sachangwan accident on Tuesday, that has seen the government assign Sh500 million to the construction of a dual carriageway. Read: Sachangwan accident claims 37, travellers stuck for hours Also read: Sh500m set aside for dual carriageway in Sachangwan area  The Bungoma Senator said NTSA officers are responsible for the escalating cases of road accidents. "The NTSA director's act of justifying his officer's action is reckless. If he cannot reconsider his position, he should be sacked forthwith because he has proved time and again to be unable to handle his responsibilities."  He spoke after NASA submitted its list of nominees to the Senate's House Business Committee and the Speaker's panel. Wetang'ula, James Orengo (Siaya), Mutula Kilonzo jr (Makueni), Petronilla Were (Nominated) and Ladema Ole Kina (Narok) were seconded to the house committee. Opposition senators approved to the Speaker's panel include Rose Nyamunga (Nominated) and Clephas Malala (Kakamega).  Jubilee senators are Margaret Kamar (Uasin Gishu) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburu). Wetangula challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta and the courts to take stern action against reckless drivers found violating traffic rules. "The President should act and Kenyans want to see action. He should go back to what the late Michuki did to bring sanity to our roads." NTSA refuted claims that its officers were to blame for the Sachangwan accident, saying they were being crucified for their diligence. It
was said that NTSA officers were pursuing the driver of a trailer that
lost control resulting in an accident that involved 15 vehicles.  The driver reportedly refused to stop at a roadblock before the trailer's brakes failed. The 12pm accident involved a Modern Coast bus, a Great Rift Valley matatu and a private car among other vehicles. Read: NTSA denies claims its officers caused Sachangwan accident Also read: Sachangwan blackspot will be fixed in January - CS Keter Click here for the latest political news  