A section of Western MPs in ANC are betraying NASA’s liberation move, former ANC secretary general Godfrey Osotsi has said. Osotsi, now a Nominated MP, claimed Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Nambale's John Bunyasi are among those who have threatened to decamp from the National Super Alliance. NASA chiefs are Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Osotsi claimed the two lawmakers want to leave the Opposition for President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto's Jubilee Party. He claimed this was because they did not get slots in the National Assembly. "The people of Western will not sit back and watch as some disgruntled leaders are used by jubilee to destabilise NASA," he warned at Mulwanda in Funyula constituency, Busia county, on Sunday Osotsi was with Busia woman representative Florence Mutua. The two noted measures have been taken to ensure Raila is sworn-in as president on December 12 despite opposition by the Jubilee administration. Savula and Bunyasi have not declared intentions to leave NASA. Reached for comment today, Bunyasi said he and Savula are not planning to leave the Opposition. He also told The Star by phone that the claims "will haunt Osotsi who has been sacked by ANC". The Lugari MP has defended the coalition several times before. On November 1, Savula took a swipe at politician Ababu Namwamba and dismissed his Professional Council of Kenya as an "amorphous outfit". Ababu's team had called for NASA's deregistration, following its conversion into a national resistance movement, noting the caolition had disregarded the law. Read: Savula takes swipe at Ababu over plan to deregister NASA On November 30, ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani claimed Jubilee was using Osotsi to destabilise the party so Mudavadi doesn't stand a chance in 2022. In response, Osotsi threatened to sue him for defamation saying the statement was full of malice and innuendos. "I have seen the statement and I know that it was written by [Mudavadi's private secretary Kibisu] Kabatesi. We cannot run a party like this," he told The Star on phone. But Kabatesi asked Osotsi to stop dragging his name into the dispute and respond to issues raised by the chairman. More on this: Jubilee using Osotsi to 'silence' Mudavadi before 2022, claims ANC chair Also read: Osotsi threatens to sue ANC chairman for defamation Click here for the latest political stories