At least 100,000 hectares of land is expected to come under irrigation in the Kerio Valley, as plans to establish three mega dams in Elgeyo Marakwet begin. The projects will set the stage for commercialisation of agriculture in the valley, which has long been infamous for banditry attacks and cattle theft. Establishment of two of the dams — Kimwarer and Embobut — has received the much-needed backing from surrounding communities. However, in Arror, the plans are being undermined by opposition from residents, who want to cling on to their ancestral land and say they were not consulted. The state, through the Kerio Valley Development Authority, is ready to roll out the construction of the first two multipurpose dams in Kimwarer, Keiyo South and Arror, Marakwet East. The three dams will cost the national government Sh80 billion, increasing the number of mega dams in the water-endowed county from one to three. Currently, Elgeyo Marakwet has the 6.2 million-cubic metre Chebara dam, which supplies water to Eldoret town and its environs. Chebara dam was established in the mid-1990s and launched by President Daniel Moi in 1999. KVDA says the semi-arid valley will be irrigated by water tapped from three rivers originating from the 65,000ha Embobut forest: Arror, Embobut and Moiben. The Sh28 billion Kimwarer dam will be established at one of the county’s wetlands in Talal, Keiyo South subcounty, while the Sh30 billion Arror dam will be built in Kipsaiya, Marakwet West subcounty. KVDA managing director David Kimosop says the areas where the dams will be established have already been mapped out. He says the dams will generate 80 megawatts, irrigate 100,000ha in the Kerio Valley belt and supply water to 80,000 households. “The dams will ensure we have sufficient power, which will attract industries and boost food production in many counties in the North Rift,” Kimosop says. The KVDA boss believes the projects, starting with Kimwarer, will begin before the end of the year. Kimosop says contractors have been sourced as plans to establish the dams hit top gear. “We got a contractor from Europe. That is also where the funds for the projects come from,” he says. He says the state agency will establish a 4,000ha irrigation scheme in Keiyo South alone, where cash crops will be prioritised as the state gears up agro-industries. “Crop production in Kerio Valley should be scaled up because it is closer to Eldoret Airport. This will make it easy for them to export their produce,” the MD says. Kimosop says the authority has received ‘maximum’ support from the Treasury, which is funding the projects in collaboration with European investors. OPPOSITION BY LOCALS The MD calls residents to support the state as it embarks on projects to improve agriculture. “We are going to ensure residents affected by these projects are compensated fully and resettled. We are seeking the support of political leaders on this,” Kimosop says The MD says groundnut farming has already been piloted and it has done well. The dams, which will be funded by the national government through KVDA, have been facing opposition from communities living around the proposed sites, who say they were not adequately consulted by KVDA before deciding to establish the dams. County commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki says the government had already released money for the dams. He urges KVDA and local leaders to enhance public participation and civic education to avoid raising suspicion among residents. Ndambuki warns that the project may be cancelled if stakeholders fail to address rejection of the projects among residents. Residents of Kipsaiya, where Aror will be built, say KVDA is being used by politicians to establish the dam for selfish reasons. Edward Yego questions why KVDA is rushing to form an implementation committee even before an environmental impact assessment is concluded. “We are told some are being promised cars and land to campaign for the project. Why should KVDA promise people goodies if this is a clean deal?” Yego says. He says 488 landowners may be displaced against their will when the project begins. The resident accuses the state agency of using local administrators, including the deputy county commissioner and chiefs, to force residents to accept the project. He says the National Land Commission has not been involved in the project. “This is our ancestral land and we ask the government to construct the dam somewhere in the escarpment, where populations will not be evicted,” Yego says. Edwin Yego, another resident, says KVDA has been silent on the kind of compensation affected residents will receive upon displacement. Locals were not asked whether they needed a dam in the first place, Yego says. He says it makes no economic sense for the state to displace 488 landowners living in a fertile land instead of establishing it on the escarpment, which lies idle in the Kerio hanging valley. “As residents, we have not asked the state to give us a dam. We fail to understand why it wants to set up a project against our will,” Yego says. He says the dam will also displace three schools and four churches. Yego accused leaders of remaining silent as the authority ignores residents’ views on the project. “We want our leaders to declare their stand and interests in this project,” he says. HOSTILE RECEPTION In the latest demonstration of frosty relations between locals opposing establishment of Arror dam and the state, a National Museums of Kenya research mission turned ugly after angry villagers held two researchers hostage for three hours. The two were detained in Kabengong, Marakwet West, just as they started their bird research activities. Angry villagers claim the two men, Dominic Chesire, 33, and Edson Mulamba, 36, were surveying Kipsaiya, where the dam is set to be established, against their wish. A van belonging to the researchers was vandalised during the incident that took place next to Kipkunur Forest, Marakwet West. Chesire said they were in the area to research on rare species of birds in the forest before they were taken deep into the forest, where they were harassed by armed residents. He said the residents confiscated their equipment, including two binoculars, four mobile phones, a jacket and a bag. “The angry locals showed up as soon as we arrived and started beating us up. They took us into the forest, where they took and destroyed our equipment,” he said. “We pleaded with them and they released us in the afternoon.” KVDA has already established major agricultural projects in farms adjacent to Arror river. Arror dam is expected to serve Arror and parts of Mogil in Marakwet East and West, while Kimwarer dam is expected to supply irrigation water to most parts of Soy North and South in Keiyo South. The proposed Embobut dam will supply water for irrigating farms in Endo area, including Liter and Tot, which produce the largest quantities of mangoes in the valley. In January, KNDA halted at least 100 projects in North Rift countries, including Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo, following banditry attacks. MD Kimosop said the authority could not proceed with establishment of a mango processing in Tot due to insecurity. Click here for the latest political news