NASA principal Raila Odinga has said that they will execute well orchestrated plans to bring President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee government down in the next three months. Odinga said that as NASA,they have a myriad of available options at their disposal that they will employ to ensure that Jubilee government crumbles within the next three months. He added that among a myriad of plans at their disposal includes escalating more economic boycotts away from previously announced strategies for its supporters to boycott products associating with companies allied to Jubilee administration. “We will assert more pressure to the Jubilee government so that it surrenders in the next three months,|”added Odinga. Odinga added that Nasa enjoys overwhelming support from the International community’s including some sister states who are readily available to offer any kind of support that would end Jubilee regime. “We enjoy a lot of support from international community’s including the majority of Kenyans ready to see Jubilee government goes home,”added Odinga. Odinga was speaking on Saturday at the Injili Takatifu church during the burial of its founder ,Bishop Jane Akoth, Ugunja constituency. He was flanked by MPs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Chris Karan (Ugenya) and former Gem MP who doubles up as the Siaya County public service board chairman Joe Donde. Odinga likened Jubilee government to a wild cat which has resorted to mauling chicks hence the need to kill it before it creates more harm than good to the owner. “We have several options to kill the cat,we can skin it alive,solit its throat using a panga or suffocate it in a gunny and through it in river Nzoia to sink,”added Odinga saying those are among the available options they intend to use against Jubilee administration. Wandayi took a swipe at the church for its look warm approach towards the atrocities committed to innocent public by the Jubilee government in the guise of defending power at all cost. The legislator singled the Catholic and the Anglican churches for burying its heads in the sand as the country sinks into its lowest ebb under the dictatorship of Jubilee’s top echelons. The MP,said that instead of the churches coming out strongly to condemn the actions of the rogue government, they have opted to preach for dialogue with an illegitimate government. “We will not negotiate anything with the rogue government that keeps on killing its innocent people,”added Wandayi. Karan maintained that Uhuru was an illegitimate president whom they will not pay allegiance to rather than Odinga who is the people’s choice. He added that the perception held by Jubilee government over its tyranny of numbers gimmick,they will use tyranny of brains to give them sleepless nights. Odinga described Jubilee government like that of the late Ugandan dictator Idi Amin whose regime eventually crumbled leading to his miserable death in Saudi Arabia. “Amin died like a dog in Saudi Arabia,”said Odinga quoting from the bible that whoever lives by the sword would die by the sword. He rubbished the repeat presidential elections which Uhuru was declared the winner saying the process was like one playing with its shadows or a night runner playing with an old cockroach after failing to gather momentum to face off with its equals. Others who accompanied Odinga included MCAs Peter Odero (Ugunja), Eric Odawa (Sigomere) and politician Tom Nduku among others.      