The Kenya National Union of Teachers yesterday vowed to reject "punitive and unconsulted" policies announced by TSC and the Education minister. They hinted at a strike if the policies are forced on them. Edward Olando, who represents persons living with disability in the union, read the resolutions. The Teachers Service Commission and the Ministry of Education must consult with Knut whenever formulating new policies, he said. They opposed delocalisation of teachers. “Teachers performance and appraisal development must be removed and teachers with higher qualification must be recognised,” he said. Knut is holding its 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa. Read:Knut tells TSC to raise salary or prepare for strike Olando said teachers' medical cover must be improved or the provider changed. “Teachers in elective positions must retain those positions,” he said. Olando said teachers must be represented in the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba said HIV prevalence will be high if delocalisation of teachers is effected. “What do you want to do with wives of these teachers you want to transfer? What plans do you have for them in this era of containing HIV?” he posed. Knut secretary Wilson Sossion said delocalisation is unprofessional and against International Labor Organization standards. “This is meant to punish teachers. Write one [sacking] letter and you (TSC) will not see any of us in classroom. We will deal with you in a manner never seen before,” Sossion said. He said if a teacher teaches in his or her home county, will influence education. Sossion said TPAD is mischievous and will not be honored, effective immediately. TSC says TPAD is an open appraisal system allows teachers in primary and secondary schools to participate in evaluating their own performance and initiate their professional development. Also Read:Knut, TSC sign CBA to end perennial strikes, scrap off P1 entry grade But Knut leadership said it subjects teachers to unnecessary paper work to an extent they lack time to teach. “We are burying TPAD and Performance Appraisal in 2017,” Sossion said. Click here for the latest political news    