Nkubu traders have opposed plans by Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi seeking new allotment of Sh130 million Jerusalem market build through the Smallholder Horticulture Marketing Programme (Shomap) completed in 2012. The market which has never been utilised after some traders opted to sell their commodities next to the Meru-Nairobi highway where it is easier to attract customers. "We were allocated the market but when we began selling some traders starting selling commodities by roadsides so those who were selling in the market had to move out too," Lucy Kanana a trader said. On November 17 Kiraitu visited Nkubu market ordered traders to move the market and said Taiita a local community will be allocated 10 stalls in the market. He said it is bad for such a project he lobbied for its construction hen he was South Imenti MP to continue being unused five years later. "Any trader given space in the market must start paying rates to the county government and put it into use within three months. If a stall is unused after three months, it will be re-allocated to whoever is ready for business,” Kiraitu said. However the community has refused the new directive by the governor and said he allocated them the market when he was MP Jacob Kinyua chairman of the community and traders said they already have slots in the market and they are opposing reallocation. "The governor recently said that the market stalls allocations was down illegally yet we followed the right procedures when we acquired them at the time he was the area MP and a cabinet minister during the regime of Mwai Kibaki.It is illegal to come back here to evict the legitimate owners in a move meant to benefit strangers once we are displaced from the stalls.We shall never allow such takeover especially after realising the governor and the MCA are targeting development projects initiated by their predecessors within the Taiita location," said the community chairman. They want Kiraitu to dialogue with Jerusalem market committee. On Thursday the traders addresed the press on the issue and went ahead to yesterday hold peaceful demonstrations to protest against plans to evict them from Jerusalem market and allocate the stalls afresh. They accused governor Kiraitu Murungi and Nkuene ward MCA Martin Koome of secretly scheming to evict them using unorthodox means noting that the governor recently visited the market and told traders that the premises was allocated illegally and will have to be sub divided again through a secret ballot.