President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he is ready for engagement on development and not politics. Speaking yesterday during the official launch of the governors induction at the Diani Reef Hotel in Kwale, Uhuru politics is over. He promised to work with governors to spearhead development. Uhuru told leaders not to hesitate to consult him of any development agenda, provided it is not about politics. “Election is over and each leader is now charged with delivering services to the people as we promised during campaigns. For my part, I will double my efforts to make sure I deliver more compared to my first term,” Uhuru said. He warned governors against illegal activities, saying those threatening the lives of people or the nation will be dealt with accordingly. “Those operating outside the law must be prepared to be dealt with firmly as we are never going to spare them,” Uhuru said. He asked governors to strengthen devolution. “We all need to work diligently and ensure devolution is fully implemented as per the Constitution. I have seen great achievements over the last four years,” Uhuru said. Read: Let's dialogue on projects, not politics, Uhuru tells governors He noted that devolution has led to key milestonea in roads, education, health and agriculture, with people in the grass roots benefiting from various projects. Uhuru asked governors to partner with private sectors for investments in the counties. Also Read:Stop competing with me, Uhuru tells 'weird-thinking' governors CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said devolution was on course. He urged governors to keep up the good work for citizens to fully enjoy the fruits of devolution. “It’s our duty to strengthen and make sure devolution improves the lives of Kenyans,” Kiunjuri said. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok urged his colleagues to work harmoniously with the national government for a smooth implementation of devolution. “We should put all our party affiliations aside and work with the national government,” Nanok said. Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka said senator will protect devolution to ensure it benefits citizens. “The senate will pass all bills on devolution to make sure it remains on track. This is our commitment to support devolution,” Lusaka said. Click here for the latest political news