The national and county governments must work together to provide irrigation equipment and develop arable lands to improve farming. Agrictulture CS Willy Bett yesterday said the highly changing weather patterns portend a bleak future and measures must be put in place to protect investors and farmers. He spoke during the first National Fodder Commercialisation Conference that kicked off in Nakuru. Sector players also rooted for financial support to help tackle uncertainties faced by farmers. Bett urged the counties and the national government to improve rural infrastructure, including roads and electricity. This is essential towards ensuring socioeconomic growth, he said. “The Ministry is developing 1,000,000 acres for irrigation and providing necessary equipment for the same. It’s offering opportunities for reengineering agricultural sector transformation initiatives,” Bett said in a statement before the official opening of the conference. The USAID and the Kenya Agricultural Value Chain Enterprises have organised the conference. It brings together players in the dairy value chain, including farmers, experts, academia, government officials and non-governmental organisations. USAID-Kaves chief of party Steve New said farmers can benefit more through building public-private partnerships. “There is money in farming through building private partnerships that enhance competitiveness and collaboration using a multisectoral approach for maximum impact,” he said. US ambassador Robert Godec said increased productivity, income and nutrition through training and capacity building have been the key milestones recorded under USAID-Kaves support. Bett said institutional environment influences productivity and performance and better systems must be in place so the country can achieve the best outcomes. “Institutional support in the form of research centres and institutes, provision of extension and support services, and agricultural trade fairs will further boost the production of marketable surpluses,” he said. “The regulatory framework for agriculture must also be taken into account, including the encouragement of local community leadership in rural areas.” The conference focusses on solutions to problems in the dairy sector. It also seeks to ensure proper feeding of Kenya’s more than 70 million livestock. Bett said donors and multinational institutions give little attention to agriculture and rural development. More than 70 per cent of the African poor reside in rural areas and measures must be put in place to transform their lives, he said.