Congestion at the busy Likoni channel are expected to be reduced by 20 per cent once the ambitious Sh5.8 billion cable car project is complete. On Wednesday, Kenya Ferry Services signed an initial concessional agreement with Trapos Limited for the construction of the cable project. The agreement was forwarded to the Cabinet for review and approval. KFS chairman Ramadhan Kajembe said they expect the Cabinet to give its not to the project by end of January. More than 300,000 people and an estimated 5,000 cars cross the Likoni channel daily. Commuters and motorists face frequent delays caused by congestion despite five ferries operating at the channel. Sometimes, tourists from South Coast have missed flights because of the delays. The car cable will transport 5,500 people per hour. KFS managing director Bakari Gowa told journalists the cable cars will have a projected minimum of 5 per cent annual growth. “It is anticipated that the cable will operate for between 16-18 hours with a capacity to support a daily ridership of 180,000-200,000 passengers,” Gowa said. Hoteliers have welcomed the news, saying it will boost tourism at the Coast. “We expect the number of tourists coming to Mombasa to go up,” said Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers executive director Sam Ikwaye. If implemented, Kenya will become the first country in the region to have such cable cars, Kajembe said. “It will not only ease congestion at the Likoni channel, but will also be an experience for most of the people coming to Mombasa. Majority of people have not seen such projects, except for few who have gone to countries like Germany," Kajembe said. Gowa said the cable will operate seven days a week with a journey time of three to four minutes across the channel. He said it will be classified as river crossing because it will be spanning over a channel about 500 metres wide. “Similar projects successfully implemented include Koblenz in Germany across River Rhine and Emirates Line in London across River Thames,” Gowa said. The Likoni channel connects the port city of Mombasa to Kenya's South Coast. But it has remained a nightmare for motorists and commuters due to traffic caused by congestion. Calls to construct a bridge across the channel have been made but the government is yet to the design and feasibility study for a bridge that will not affect ships docking in Mombasa. Trapos Limited chairperson Eustance Mwarania said they have identified an Australian- Swiss company, Doppelmayr, which is recognised worldwide for manufacturing cable cars. “Doppelmayr will design, construct and run the cable cars for a 25-year concession period, once the deal is approved by Cabinet,” Mwarania said.      