HAKI Africa, a human right organisation has warned that they will file all cases of police brutality  and ensure justice is served. Speaking with media at Kwale Arts troop hall on Monday, the organization condemned the use of excessive force by police in the name of maintaining peace. Rapid response officer Fransis Auma said that police in Kenya have impunity. They have been involved in disappearances of people in the country and nothing has been done. "We are telling police bosses that their days are numbered. This is our country and we want peace," he said. Auma challenged IPOA not to check on deaths only but to intervene on cases of harassment. "We are documenting this cases and as HAKI Africa we are going to present them in Banjul, Gambia at the African commission on human right. He pointed out that Kenya will be going for a review in Geneva and they will present those cases too. He said that the move will discourage any future misuse of power by police. "It might take time but we are not cowards and those participants must face the rule of law," he said. Auma condemned the recent running battle between police and NASA supporters saying its unlawful. "During the political period police have killed people in Nyanza and Nairobi and nothing has been done. The Constitution allows for any political party to hold rallies or demonstrations provided police are notified," he said. Auma cited the example of the Kwale police force who used excessive force last month to search for stolen firearms. He noted that, police should cooperate with locals and they will get as many information on culprits as they demand. "Actually police think when they beat up people they will get stolen guns." "If they have whereabouts of those criminals in possession of firearms then why don't they go directly to their places and arrest them? Beating up everyone won't return back a stolen gun," he said. Auma said, as a human right lobby group, they are losing hope on the National police force due to their brutality on innocent citizens. "We want the government to take action on the police officers who brutalise women and children," he said.