Rapper Khaligraph Jones on Saturday stunned and amused his fans at a concert in Makutano town, Meru. This was after his 30-minute performance culminated in the star giving a female fan his very expensive Rolex watch after her performance on stage impressed him. Khaligaph, who was flying solo, performed his hit single Micasa Sucasa, featuring his girlfriend Cashy. Since Cashy was not with him in Meru, he asked for a female volunteer and Mina Kawira was picked. Her performance was so seamless that rapper Khaligraph offered to award her for the good work. Since he did not have cash on him he offered to give her his gold Rolex watch. "Mina, you are great. Nikufanyie nini?" he asked. Fans shouted, "Pesa". "Pesa ziko M-pesa, sina cash. Tutaongea uko nyuma." Khaligraph, however, removed his hand watch and awarded Mina with it. The cheapest watch of that brand is a Rolex Submariner, priced at Sh750,000 — that is assuming it is what he was rocking. Anyhow, Khaligraph only performed for 30 minutes and he was a paid Sh200,000, according to sources. Sources from event sponsors said the rapper was given Sh100,000 to 150,000 to come and perform, while sources privy to the agreement said, "When people are struggling to earn good money, someone is getting 10 months' salary in 30 minutes. Khaligraph is indeed in high demand, he cannot be paid less than Sh200,000."  Martin Kiarie, the in-charge of Tusker EPL that sponsored the concert, refused to indicate the exact amount the rapper was paid. "I do not know if it will be good to say their pay. The choice of artiste was good because we had pushed a lot of stocks. In terms of attracting a crowd, big artistes pull many, as opposed to the local artistes, whom they are always used to," he said. Other big artistes expected to showcase performances in Meru include MC Jesse of Churchill Raw, who will perform at Governor Kiraitu Murungi's Nkubu Heritage Gardens on December 13. Reggae superstar Glen Washington is slated for a performance at the Meru National Polytechnic on December 16.