This year’s KCSE examinations were tough for the top performing schools in
Mombasa, going by the results that were received. A majority, namely Sheikh Khalifa, Light Academy, Memon High and Aga Khan
High, were by this evening still celebrating A- (minus) grades. By the time of going to
press, Memon High was leading the pack with 11 students who had A- (minus), four
B+ (plus), four B- (minus) and six B plains. Of those whose results had
come in, the top student had an A- (minus) of 80 points. Memon had received total
results for 25 students out of the 104 who sat the examination at the school. More on this: KCSE 2017: Read list of top 10 students nationally Sheikh Khalifa had 10 students
who had managed an A- (minus) for those had already received their results. Light Academy had only received
results of 10 students out of the 28 who had sat the exams.  Six students had managed
to get A- (minus), with the top student managing an A- (minus) of 70 points. Memon’s top student Mohamed Issa said he had hoped for the best, but he is now comfortable with what
he achieved. HOPES TO DO MEDICINE “I had prepared well and
was hoping for an A, but I thank God for my performance,” said Issa, who wants
to pursue medicine at the University of Nairobi. Abdul Basit managed to
scored an A- (minus) of 79 points and also wants to pursue medicine at the same
university. Three girls - Faunzia Ali, Tanzila
Yakub and Khulud Nurani - managed to get A- (minus) and they all want to pursue medicine. Their principal Joseph
Mwangi said discipline and hard work was the secret to the exemplary performance
in the national examination. “Almost all of them want
to pursue medicine. This shows that they were well prepared and they are
following after other students from Memon who are already studying medicine at the
universities,” said Mwangi. Light Academy’s top
performer was Noordin Kullow who had an A- of 79 points followed by Kassam Moosa
who had 76 points. Kullow said he wants to pursue
Civil Engineering and he did not expect to score an A- (minus). “I had expected to pass
well, but this took me by surprise,” he said. Sheikh Khalifa principal Suleiman
Khamis said they are still compiling the results. By the time of going to
press, Sauda Habib managed to scored an A- (minus) of 78 points, leading the 150
candidates who had sat the examination at the school. “She has so far done us
proud. We had instilled discipline in the students which helped them managed
their time,” said Khamis. Education CS Fred Matiang'i released the results on Wednesday saying only 142 As were produced from 615,773 candidates. He mentioned three schools that have done well nationally: Alliance Girls, Kenya High and Pangani Girls. More on this: KCSE 2017: Only 70,000 attain university mean grade, 142 As recorded  Click here for the latest political news 