Potholes in more than 15 roads in the city centre and estates have been patched since City Hall leased road repair technology three weeks ago The county hired a pothole patching machine and contracted experts from Avery East Africa for the repairs.  Roads which have either been neglected or damaged by flood waters, have deep and large potholes and some have been rendered impassible. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane said patching was done on Muindi Mbingu, Koinange, Wabera and Tom Mboya streets and Hailie Selassie and Moi avenues. “Moi Avenue, from Hilton Hotel to the bomb last roundabout and then to Kencom stage, Limuru Road and roads around City Hall and the annex have been patched,” Dagane said on Wednesday. The executive said the city will acquire its own machines next year. “The machine will be on lease as the county procures two in this year's financial year. We have already effected this in our supplementary budget." During the testing of the leased machine on December 5, Dagane said the county would spend Sh100 million on the two machines. “These machines will reduce road maintenance costs by 50 per cent and the work will be much faster," he said. The executive noted the equipment will quicken and cheapen routine road repairs as patching a pothole takes three to five minutes. AEA engineer Mike Davies said nearly all roads in the central business district will be repaired before the end of the year. The county headed by Mike Sonko has been on the spot over dilapidated roads. Residents have held demonstrations and business people, especially those in Eastleigh, have threatened not to pay taxes. Early in December, the county said it needed Sh29.6 billion to rehabilitate roads in the city and make them motor-able. Related: Governor Sonko to prioritise roads, solid waste management in 17 sub-counties Roads in the city are repaired by the county government, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya National Highways Authority. Previous administrations complained about lack of enough money to fix the roads. The county has also started repairing pavements and road barriers within the CBD. Works are ongoing on Moi Avenue, Tom Mboya Street and most roads in the downtown section. Click here for the latest political stories