Ongoing woes in the retail sector have paralysed job creation in the manufacturing sector and leading to a loss of existing jobs, a new World Bank report shows. The report, Kenya Economic Update, shows that spillover effects from challenges in the troubled retail market have contributed to the manufacturing sector's sluggish growth. This growth is said to have extended to the first half of 2017 with manufacturing output expanding by only 2.6 percent. The report says Nakumatt Holdings, which runs the largest supermarket chains, has contributed to the shutting down of some manufacturers after it could not honour payments to many suppliers. This led to the closing down of a number of small scale outfits that could not continue operating due to cash problems. "Output in the manufacturing sector has also been curtailed by tightening credit conditions, insufficient raw materials for certain agroprocessing industries due to the drought (sugar, and maize meal) and spillover effects from the challenges facing Nakumatt—one of the largest retailers in Kenya—since many local manufacturing firms are suppliers," the World Bank report reads.  Nakumatt is facing a financial crisis running into billions of shillings leading to closure of some of its branches,latest being Garden city branch. Some of the affected firms that have eventually closed due to lack of operating cash as a result of the debt owed to them include Tharaka honey, which stopped production in March 2017. Others are Kapari Limited that is at risks of being auctioned, Seal Diamond Limited which is unable to pay loans, Acinon Limited that reported a shrink in working capital, and Eastern Gas distributors, who were forced to increase loans to remain in business as reported in the Kenya retail sector prompt payment. “Given the importance of the manufacturing sector in job creation, this weak performance is at a level too low to make a dent to unemployment or absorb the yearly increase in the labor market,” reads sections of the report. The update echoes a recent study by Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives, "Kenya Retail Sector Prompt Payment" which indicated that the future of retail sector in the country is at a cross-roads due to a culture of late payment. Released in July this year, the study revealed that there is an estimated more than Sh40 billion in outstanding payments for goods delivered by manufacturers, with some payments having been delayed by between 180 and 240 days. It records that five supermarkets account for 92 per cent of the total debt owed for 60 days and above with Nakumatt and Uchumi alone accounting for 73 per cent of the debt. Other supermarkets mentioned in the government report are Tuskys, Naivas, and Chandarana which account for 20 per cent while others account for seven per cent. Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga confirmed the Sh40 billion is still unpaid. The debt that is over 60 days due is estimated at Sh1.6 billion or 82 per cent of total amount owed. The rest, amounting to Sh351 million or 18 per cent of the total amount owed being less than 60 days.            