All the House committees in the National Assembly have until tomorrow to elect their respective chairpersons and vice-chairpersons. On Thursday last week, Speaker Justin Muturi directed the committees to elect their leaders in seven days. Related content : [VIDEO] Row in NASA as Coast MPs reject House leadership list They are expected to begin their work on January 15, except the committee on appointments which will be allowed to vet Cabinet nominees, in case President Uhuru Kenyatta submit their names to Parliament. "Members will be informed by the clerk on the place, date and time for the first meetings of the various committees whose business shall be the election of chairpersons and vice-chairpersons," Muturi said. "And as is the tradition of Parliament, committee activities will thereafter stand suspended until January 15, 2018." Yesterday, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi was elected chairman of the Public Accounts Committee with Kibwezi East MP Jessica Mbalu elected vice chairperson. Katoo ole Metito (Kajiado South) was elected chairman of the Defence and Foreign Relations committee. Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tongi was elected vice chairman. The other 24 committees are expected to conduct their elections today. More on this : Jubilee vows to form House committee's without NASA members Between 9-10am, five committees; Administration and National Security, Agriculture and Livestock, Communication and Information, Lands and Education, Research and Technology will concurrently be electing their leaders. They will be followed by the committees of Environment, Sports, Toruism and Culture, Health and Justice and Legal Affairs between 10-11am. Between 11am-12pm, the committees on Energy, Finance and National Planning, Trade, Industry and Cooperatives and that of Transport, Public Works and Housing will be conducting their elections.   They will be followed by the Labour and Social Welfare committee which is scheduled for elections between 12-1pm. From 2-3pm, three committees - Public Investments, Special Funds Account and the Budget and Appropriations will conduct elections. They will be followed by the committees of Implementation and Delegated Legislation, Regional Integration and the that of Members Services and Facilities. The committee of National Cohesion and Equal Opportunities will be among the last to conduct their elections. Others are the Constitutional Implementation Oversight committee, the National Government Constituencies Development Fund committee and the Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library Services committee. They will elect their chairpersons between 4-5pm. Also read : NASA to table committee members' names as Parliament resumes Jubilee is expected to win the chairmanship of most committees except in PAC, PIC and that of Implementation which are reserved for NASA. The leadership of the newly created committee for Special Funds Account is reserved for Independents. Click here for the latest political news