A major shakeup of principals in secondary schools in Nyanza has been effected by the Teachers’ Service Commission. The mass transfers have seen several principals of national schools transferred out of their home areas. Teachers from Kisii and Nyamira were transferred to other counties. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i announced the ministry will ‘delocalise schools by transferring head teachers outside their home counties. Maranda High School principal Boaz Owino has been transferred to Nyambaria High in Nyamira. He will take over from Gerald Orina, who has been transferred to Kakamega High School. Long-serving Kakamega High School principal Oliver Munishi has been moved to Nanyuki. Sironga Girls principal Hellen Mabese has been transferred to Moi Girls Kapsowar in Elgeyo Marakwet. St Charles Lwanga Ichuni Girls principal Joyce Orioki was promoted. She will move from Ichuni, which is an extra county institution to Nyabururu Girls National School. Prinicipal Mary Stella Chitechi resigned to join Aga Khan Foundation. Orioki will be replaced by Mary Lucy Obondo from Siaya. Orioki was praised for her school’s sterling performance. She is now tasked to revive Nyabururu, a falling giant. Esther Ongondi of Kereri Girls has been transferred to Migori and will be replaced by Teresa Otieno from Migori. Dennis Munyendo from Kakamega will head Cardinal Otunga Boys’ High whose principal Zachary Nyariki will be moving to Bungoma. MoI Gesusu principal Ochora Ombute will be moving to Bomet and he will be replaced by Richard Sangutet, also from Bomet. Clement Nyangácha and Ogeto Nicodemus of Sameta and Nyabigena Secondary Schools have been transferred to Siaya and Bungoma, respectively. They will be replaced by Rakiro Ochieng and Mathews Simiyu from Migori and Bungoma counties. St Peters Suneka principal Emily Mokera has been moved to Busia. Rosemary Omogo from Siaya will take her place. Kisii county TSC director Nimrodi Kimathi told the press in his office that two secondary schools, Ramoya Hill Girls and Nyamagesa, had no principals, but Carolyne Ateno from Migori was recruited to head Ramonya, while Alice Adhiambo will head Nyamagesa. Kimathi said the transfers targeted principals from both extra county and national schools. He said the affected principals will be taken to schools of their equivalent saying handing over will be on December 28.  Kenya National Union of Teachers has ealier told the TSC to rescind plans to deploy teachers outside their home counties, failure to which the union would call for a strike. Secretary general Wilson Sossion said the unions were never consulted over the proposed drastic policy changes contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. He said if enforced, the proposals would destabilise teachers as they would trigger break up of their families.  Sossion said is effected, the changes go against the Ministry of Education and TSC HIV-Aids work place policy because the affected teachers would be exposed to risks of contracting the virus. In June, the TSC chief executive officer Nancy Macharia announced redeployment and transfer of schools heads across the country. The commission announced it will undertake the delocalisation programme of principals and head teachers posted in their home counties. Macharia said this is aimed at addressing any case of conflict of interest.       