This weekend just passed and partygoers were treated to yet another edition of the highly anticipated, annual Jameson Connects Kenya held at the Uhuru Gardens grounds, Nairobi, which kicked off at 4 pm with the Thrift Social installation. Fast forward five hours later, the venue shook with hysterical applause as soon as the musical performances commenced. Openers Kagwe Mungai, Fena Gitu and MDQ ensured that they set the perfect mood for the night with their party tunes.   If you've been blessed enough to see Octopizzo perform, you'll know how phenomenally tight he is. He does not take his music for granted, and when he raps over his band's instrumentation, he certainly steals the show.  And that was the case throughout his electrifying set, where he brought out Kenyan- American rapper Barak Jacuzzi to perform "Tergat Gang". The Kansoul, as usual, offered a hugely powerful arresting and captivating set. Backed, as ever, by their seductive dancers. The crowd was taken on a journey of hits released by the trio's collaborative efforts and individual ventures. Khaligraph Jones' entrance was arguably the most spellbinding move of the night. Escorted by pallbearers, the buff artiste was brought on stage in a coffin from which he resurrected to kick off his playback set with his hit track "Mazishi".  The rapper known to maintain his relevance by employing endless publicity stunts also "made it mizzle" by tossing an insignificant sum to a hyped crowd that was too animated to notice.  Nasty C, who has since expressed his admiration for the energy he drew from the Kenyan crowd, brought the dome down with his extensive hip-hop track list. It was hard to tell which of the tracks he performed got the biggest reaction, but "Allow," "Particular," "NDA" and "Juice Back" were all close contenders.  American singer Ty Dolla $ign did not thank his sold-out audience for the sake of primness. He did it because the crowd confirmed his influence. Sure there were some lesser known cuts as offered by his Dj Dre Sinatra, but he was there to unite, turning the venue into a mosh pit when hits like " Droptop in the Rain,"  "Blase," "It's a Vibe" and "So Am I" played. Then, the lights faded and the performance came to an end, and from the audience's reaction, it was everything we could have hoped for. Jameson know how to throw a great party.