A. Asante sana! I left Kenya after a
4-year tour of duty in 2010. Back in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Paris, I
held different positions among them, Ambassador in charge of renegotiating defence
agreements with African countries and Director General for Africa. I was
then sent as Ambassador to South Africa, which I left a year ago to
become Special Envoy for Libya.   Q. What is your current job back in France?  A. I am now the Deputy Director General of the French National Research Institute for sustainable Development. IRD is its acronym in French.   Q.  What brings you back to Kenya? I am here for the Third UN Environment Assembly meeting, which will be attended by a French Ministerial delegation. IRD,  which is present and active in Kenya, is part of this delegation. Environment and climate issues are very high on IRD’s agenda.   Q. And as concerns the conference you are to attend in Kenya, what are the expected outcomes of this conference?   The theme of this third UN Environment Assembly is "Towards a Pollution-Free Planet" We expect to have an ambitious Ministerial declaration, which will acknowledge the global aspect of pollution. A global engagement is crucial to ensure all the stakeholders tackle pollution issues.  Pollution negatively impacts everybody, specially the poorest. In this context, science has a key role to play, from the collection of data and evidence to the identification of solutions and technological innovations. Science
must facilitate political action, in a context where uncertainty fuels
doubts among public opinions, thus leading to dangerous inaction. It is, therefore, imperative for the fight against pollution to be combined
with the sustainable development goals to reconcile
preservation of the environment and reduction of inequalities. Clearly,
the  fight against pollution implies major changes in the modes of
production and consumption. It needs a huge collective effort. France, on its part, is pushing for the adoption of a Global Pact for the Environment. Laurent Fabius, whom you may remember as the Chairman of the Paris 2015 COP 21 (Climate Change agreement), has recently been appointed UN Patron on Environmental Governance, and was here for events in the margins of UNEA3.    Q You
were posted in a part of Africa that doesn’t have French colonial
presence. But French culture, especially the language is now popular.
The Embassy actually held an awards ceremony for the same on November
14. How effective has French cultural diplomacy been? Culture
is a very important component of France’s diplomacy, all over the world
and not only in former colonies. It is part of our “soft power”, and it has been quite successful. The French language, which is shared by millions of citizens of the world, what we call “la francophonie”, is an element of this culture. You can go to Alliance Française, right here in Nairobi, if you want to learn French!  The recent award ceremony you mention was actually to honour a number of our Kenyan partners from the Education and Research sphere, a field where we also have a rich cooperation with Kenya.   Q. Looking
back on your tour of duty here, what was your
deepest satisfaction?   I enjoyed very much my stay in Kenya, which has been for me extremely enriching both professionally and personally.