President Uhuru Kenyatta will be soon expected to announce his new Cabinet. He must be conflicted in his mind right now. Merit, friendship, regional representation and direct campaign promises are among factors that may inform his choice of Cabinet. As he mulls over his choices, Kenyans will want to know the following. First, what criteria will he use in making his decisions as to those who should serve in the Cabinet? Secondly, why should he use those criteria? To what extent is he allowed to nominate for appointment as Cabinet Secretaries those who supported Jubilee Party? Article 152(3) of the Constitution provides that a Cabinet Secretary shall not be a Member of Parliament. He or she cannot either be a member of the Senate or National Assembly. This should not be abused to reward politicians who lost in party nominations or the General Election in the name of healing the nation through inclusivity. Merit has not been a criterion during the greater part of the past years of our nationhood. Instead, the perceived or anticipated political dependability of a person by the government of the day has been the criterion. In his speech, Uhuru pledged to “be the President of all citizens, regardless of political affiliation”. He swore to serve Kenyans beyond party or tribal lines. In exercising fidelity to his speech, his Cabinet should address matters of inclusivity to confront the fears that Kenyan communities have around discrimination and exclusion. He should not fear being the biblical Paul who changed from Saul on his way to Damascus; he must face Christophany regardless of what his underlings are advising him. He should give priority to bringing Kenyans together, if he can, through the Cabinet and foster the principle of inclusivity, which is a requirement under the Constitution of Kenya. The face of regional representation in his Cabinet must not be drawn along politicians who were rejected by the electorate from their regions. The principle of regional representation in the Constitution is not just a mosaic of tribal names; it is that feeling of belongingness by the ordinary Kenyans from where the names come from. He has no option but to prioritize this criterion. His second term is thoroughly battered, and a Cabinet with regional representation may help him start recovering from the legitimacy questions that have been raised about his second term. The writer is a political scientist. Click here for the latest political news