The families of seven Kenyans imprisoned in Uganda want President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene so they can come back home. Habib Njoroge, Muhammad Ali, Idris Magondu, Hassan Agade, Omar Awadh, Muhammad Hamid and Yahya Mbuthia were allegedly involved in the 2010 bombings in Kampala. More than 70 people died in the bombing that took place during the final World Cup match. Njoroge, Ali, Magondu and Agade were handed life sentences in May last year. Awadh, Hamid and Mbuthia were acquitted by the same court but were later rearrested and taken to Luzira prison. They appeared in court once when their bail application was rejected. Hamid's mother Zeinab said: "As a family, we have knocked every door and reached out to everyone in government but help has not been forthcoming. "We are urging the President [to help]...these are sons of this country. When dealing with country affairs, there should be no double standards. He intervened in the South Sudan case so he should reach out to his Ugandan counterpart [Yoweri Museveni]." She said the legal route is no longer tenable and that only a political engagement will be helpful. Njoroge's sister Aisha Suleiman said: "Our sons were illegally taken to Uganda. We have been reaching out to the government so they are brought here to face trial or jail for any mistake. "They have been there for more than six years. Others have been acquitted and re-arrested ... the cases are appalling." Magondu's wife Saida said a prisoner swap should be considered so her husband can return. “This will give his children the chance to visit him and get the fatherly love every child yearns for. Life has been brutal since his arrest," she said. The appeal comes after Uhuru's administration secured the release of four Kenyans from South Sudan. The group jailed on theft charges landed at JKIA last Thursday after weeks of talks between the the Kenyan and South Sudanese governments. More on this: [VIDEO] Kenyans jailed in South Sudan got presidential pardon - Monica Juma Click here for the latest political news  