Division in NASA heightened yesterday after ANC and Coast MPs demanded that they be given the position of Minority Whip. Addressing separate press conferences at Parliament Buildings after holding their respective Parliamentary Group meetings, the MPs said they are entitled to the position. Coast MPs said they will front Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori as the Minority Whip in the National Assembly. Read : NASA MPs disagree over House leadership ‘list More than 10 MPs from the region led by Mvita's Abdulswamad Nassir said they had agreed with ODM party leader Raila Odinga for Suna East MP Junet Mohammed to be replaced as Minority Whip. "Raila has been in touch with us and we have proposed to him the name for the Minority Whip. That name has been forward to the party and the same will be send to Parliament for changes to be effected," Nassir said.  However, reports say the ODM leadership in unhappy with Dori because "he has not been attending party meetings." The party wants another person to be considered for the position. Nassir said NASA will not disintegrate because of House leadership positions. "We will fight for our rightful stake from within because we are in NASA to stay," Nassir said. ANC MPs who spoke afterwards said they had resolved to have Lugari's Ayub Savula given the position. The two groups are also competing for representation in the Parliamentary Service Commission. Also read: List naming Mbadi minority leader not approved, says Magaya While Coast MPs are pushing for Malindi's Aisha Jumwa to be be appointed to commission, ANC wanted Sabatia's Alfred Agoi to represent NASA. ANC also wanted Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi to be appointed chairman of the powerful Public Accounts Committee while nominated senator Petrolina Lokorio be appointed Deputy Minority Whip in the Senate. Savula who was elected the chairman of the ANC Parliamentary Group meeting said they are players in the opposition outfit. "In accordance with the NASA coalition agreement deposited with office of the Registrar of Political Parties , the patron parties have equal rights within the coalition and this position should be the guiding principle in the allocation of positions in all the committees in both the Senate and the National Assembly," Savula said. The MPs who included Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Petrolina Lokorio (Nominated Senator), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Justus Murunga (Matungu), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Ernest Kivayi (Vihiga) and Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) said their lineup had been endorsed by NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi. Click here for the latest political news