As we enter the last weekend of 2017! I need to close my book titled 2017 the year of “Siasa Reloaded” I feel very blessed and lucky to close the final chapters of page 363 of 365 of my book called Life....So with one day before we usher in 2018 #TheRaverend has to take this opportunity and tell you how significant 2017 has been....It’s been a heavy election year with the Kenyan economy suffering heavy...... Cash flow has been very low with many business not hitting their targets not to mention many Kenyans losing jobs....But like any storm their comes a calm....Plus Kenyans are resilient bunch so after the political storm we all jumped back to the hustle like nobody’s business....unlike other December’s this one was a broke December but Kenyans still managed to travel to the village while others managed to go on vacation..... So now that Christmas has come and gone its time too focus en get ready for the new year....So first things first as we get ready for 2018! Can we start by living all our 2017 problems and bad habits/behaviors in 2017..... If you drunk everyday of the week living the club straight for the office en you think it’s cool you need to check that! If your that guy who starts the week with a hangover you need a life en you need new friends.... If your that chic who’s always looking for plan plus a place to sleep after rave #Ushindwe pepo mbaya that’s unacceptable in 2018....If the type of person who pays stuff using mobile money then quickly reverse the transaction the fire that will burn you in the after life is doing press ups...... If your the guy who goes to the club joins a table orders rounds and runs away without paying your bills please repent!  If you are used to joy riding in other peoples shisha in the club we are watching you carefully en search will not be allowed to happens in 2018.....if you’re a boy child who goes around taking cash from women/ladies and you never pay back let that be a warning Slay Queens can’t work so hard master the art of filters of Social media for some boy child to come and steal from them...2018 is the year of paying debts and doing epic shit! Not mediocre stuff so please let’s make sure the New Years is all about new and improved you...2017 was hard work so let’s make 2018 more productive and full off good vibes.... On That note let #TheRaverend be the first to point out the fact that 2018 starts by the 2nd So to all lovely, hardworking, fun loving Kenyans.... Mambo ya Happy holidays!!!! #CoastoManenoz, #ShagzTingz, #SlayingForJesus, #MbuziIsBae, #Kwaheri2017 end this weekend from the 2nd we are back to adulting and bills paying no time to breathe after partying 31st en 1st schools open immediately thanks to Matiangi so let’s all be ready for a rat race that will be 2018 don’t be left behind!!!!!! Time too earn your money the old fashioned way! Hard work! Showing up!