The Communications Authority of Kenya is setting up new rules to ensure Kenyans are sold quality mobile phones, with reports indicating that 30 to 40 per cent of cellulars in the market are fake. In a public notice issued yesterday, the regulator listed minimum features and technical specifications for mobile cellular devices to be sold in Kenya starting next year and asked interested parties and the general public to submit their input before January 13, next year. CA, for instance, want mobile phone vendors to provide at least one-year’s warranty for their customers and ensure the availability of after-sales support for a further two-year period for each mobile phone they sell. In addition, the manufacturer’s identification mark and model will be printed on the mobile cellular device in indelible ink, readily visible and legible. Each device shall have a unique International Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI) assigned by GSMA. The IMEI will have to be printed on the device and should be retrievable electronically by dialing *#06#, the regulations say.  External features of every mobile phone to be sold in Kenya will also have to be equipped with a wired or a wireless earpiece interface that comply with CA’s guidelines on the use of short-range devices. The keypads for a mobile cellular device shall be alphanumeric, preferably a qwerty keypad and shall comply with the International Telecommunication Union. The device should have the capability to lock to and auto select a service provider. Furthermore, mobile phone devices to be sold in the country will have to be fitted with a suitable and appropriate power supply cord that meets the Energy Regulation Authority standards. The battery for a mobile cellular should offer at least eight hour talk time and 24-hours standby time. Other measures included in the draft regulations touch on radiation and health safety standards. For instance, mobile phone devices will have to meet the general public exposure Specific Absorption Rate of two Watts per kilogramme averaged over 10 grammes of human tissue as specified in the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) This is the second time the CA is stepping up the fight against proliferation of fake mobile phone devices in the country with statistics indicating that at least 3.5 million fake devices enter Kenya’s market every year. In 2015, the authority started the process of switching off fake mobile phones using an automated system that identified IMEIs that are invalid, duplicated or cloned, or counterfeit.