December 12 has now been confirmed by the UN as World Universal Health Coverage Day. Last Tuesday President Uhuru Kenyatta outlined his vision for the next four years in which Universal Health Coverage is right at the centre. Kenya is on the cusp of a promising future. A future where no Kenyan will be denied medical care simply because they cannot afford it! A future where harambees for medical expenses will be a thing of the past, and a future where Kenyans would not have to sell their land to pay hospital bills. That future is here. Granted, Kenya has made significant strides towards UHC over the last few years. The reforms at the NHIF are now bearing fruit and the best is yet to come. We have successfully increased the number of people with NHIF cover and improved the services members can access. For example, Kenyans can now receive surgical operations and dialysis as well as specialised diagnostics such as CT scans. The old, the poor and the vulnerable, such as orphans and the severely disabled, are now able to get services. Over the next four years, the government, through the Ministry of Health, will roll out a transformational agenda under the banner of Universal Health Coverage. We aim to reach 13 million principal members from the current six million. This will get us to closer to 40 million Kenyans as each principal member would have an average of three dependants.  To ensure equity, the government has targeted poor households through social protection services. To date, over 181,000 households under the Health Insurance Subsidy Programme enjoy various healthcare benefits without discrimination. This is set to increase to 350,000 households by the end of 2018. All older persons over the age of 70, who are slightly above one million, will be covered. Additionally, we shall expand the Linda Mama programme (Free Maternity Service), which currently covers deliveries to include antenatal and postnatal care. Everyone must drum up support for enrolment for health insurance. This requires whole villages to understand that access, and lack thereof, to healthcare is a shared burden and the UHC has mechanisms to cushion every single Kenyan. For this we shall require the support of village elders, administrators such as chiefs and county commissioners, church leaders as well as trade unions. The role of county governments in strengthening devolved healthcare services comes to the fore. Each county should ensure that essential services are accessible to all through availability of relevant infrastructure for diagnostics, theatres and medicines. Every single Kenyan must be attended to by a qualified health professional and provided with necessary care. At any given time, all 40 million plus Kenyans, major pandemics notwithstanding, will be entitled to some form of care. Critical drivers towards this include employing an additional 2,400 doctors and 55,200 nurses. The number of referral institutions will be increased to 94, which each county having at least two specialised hospitals. The country will need additional eight medical schools and 83 mid-level colleges to train human resources for health. The role of the private sector will be instrumental. Privately owned healthcare facilities must be enhanced so that there is complementarity among all providers and no one feels disenfranchised. The private sector will play a role in improving access to quality medicines without co-payments for all Kenyans. It will be such a shame to have infrastructure that cannot complete the treatment loop due to lack of quality affordable medicines. UHC cannot be achieved without adequate financing. At least seven per cent of the total budget should be allocated to health. Although devolution has expanded the financial envelope, much more can be done to ring-fence the health budgets to adequately finance health needs in the counties. The national government has no intention of burdening the same citizens it’s cushioning against catastrophic health expenditures with heavy taxation. We shall target the reallocation of marked taxes and introduce matched contributions for health insurance as some of the sources to finance UHC. The ‘universality’ aspect in UHC is achievable. Already, initiatives such as Linda Mama are a testimony to the possibility of UHC. We do except that in the coming months and years, no single Kenyan would be without health insurance. We urge all Kenyans to support their parents and relatives to ensure that no one is left behind and that in every village, all Kenyans will join the UHC train. Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Health