Mombasa residents want Governor Hassan Joho to clean the city and collect the garbage before rolling out his transformative agenda. Joho has been quietly recruiting a team to help him implement his plan. Yesterday marked his first 100 days in office since reelection. Many residents say the county’s development pace is slow and want the governor to change tack. During campaigns, Joho, unlike other candidates, did not nake big promises for his first 100 days. Read more : Clear garbage in 30 days, incoming executive told Also read : Maintain Mombasa as well as your beard, Boniface tells Joho It has emerged that the county chief wants the right people to support his cause and has been laying the foundation for socioeconomic development. Insiders say the delay in crafting his cabinet has to do with his insistence on getting the “right people for the right jobs”. “He wants to leave a legacy and the Mombasa Vision 2035 is very important to him,” one of his close allies yesterday told the Star on the phone. County communications director Richard Chacha yesterday said although Joho is focussed on the county’s 10-point transformative agenda, his efforts have been slowed by several factors, including the delayed CEC. “A hundred days would be too soon to give an account of what we have done, but a lot has been done,” he said. Joho’s top priorities include tackling youth unemployment, improving solid waste management, stepping up security, improving supply and access to clean water and strengthening healthcare. Improving education, creating an environment conducive to business, building roads, developing sustainable tourism and improving housing also form part of his agenda. Garbage menace Residents have warned that Mombasa town is filthy and can easily drive visitors away. “He must focus on hygiene first to create a healthful environment,” a resident said yesterday. A day before Godfrey Nyongesa was sworn-in as Environment executive on November 16, residents gave him 30 days to clear all the garbage in the streets and estates. Read more : Shahbal hits at Joho over garbage menace, pledges to deal with mess if elected County secretary Francis Thoya has blamed both the national government and internal setbacks for the filth. Thoya said garbage collection has been undermined by the Jubilee administration’s failure to disburse funds for devolved functions. The county must acquire equipment for clearing the garbage, but this cannot happen if there is no money, he said. But on Sunday, Thoya said in Kongowea that internal problems are also to blame for the filth. “We’re committed to making Mombasa clean in two days,” he added. Differences over payment between the county and a private firm have also been blamed for the poor garbage collection. The firm stopped collecting garbage, leading to mountains of garbage and litter strewn all over. Read more : Filthy, insecure Mombasa repulses tourists – Balala On security, the county has been working with Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo to ensure streetlights are installed. The constituency is notorious for crime and has been the base of the infamous Wakali Kwanza criminal gang. Though the national government has allocated Sh30 million for the project, the county provides personnel. In the health sector, said to be at the heart of Joho’s plan, the county has hired specialists to run departments. Neurosuregeon Ben Okanga has been recruited to perform surgery on children’s spinal cord defects and fluid accumulation in the brain. He works at the Coast General Hospital weekly. His services attract patients from across the Coast region. The county has upgraded the Oncology department at the hospital. It now hosts 21 patients daily — up from less than 10. Purchases, revenue  Finance executive Maryann Mbaruk is putting in place measures to stop the county from losing funds. Suppliers have been put on notice that they could lose up to Sh4.8 billion if they do not review and lower their charges for products and services. “The figure could be much higher than we think,” Mbaruk said. She has said there has been “overprocurement, which must stop”. Suppliers have complained of delayed payment and some have threatened to stop their services midway. Joho has, however, warned he will not pay if they continue overpricing their items. Mbaruk blamed the huge bill on too much buying, while Joho said the problem is “abnormal rates”. Although a staunch supporter of NASA and ODM leader Raila Odinga, Joho has been careful not to allow major disruptions in Mombasa by demonstrators. During the anti-IEBC demonstrations that rocked most NASA strongholds, Mombasa was relatively calm — unlike other NASA strongholds. Observers attributed this to Joho’s commitment to ensuring the town remains a key destination for investors and tourists. In his September 26 speech during the opening of the Mombasa county assembly, Joho said the county is keen to develop a sustainable tourism sector. “We target new tourist sites at Shelly Beach, Mtongwe, Tudor Creek and Mtwapa Creek plus the Miritini-Mwakirunge Corridor,” he said. “We’ll ensure 24-hour surveillance and security, improve cleanliness and revitalise cultural centres such as the Swahili Cultural Centre.” Click here for more political news 