Defending champions Telkom humiliated Chase Amira 5-1 at City Park to inch closer to defending their women’s Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League title. The 19-time champions, who are yet to drop points recorded their 16th victory of the season and consequently hit their 48-point mark. With four games remaining, Telkom were left with a light job of picking four points out of the 12 to win their 20th premiership title. Despite conceding their third goal of the season, Telkom were hardly troubled by Amira who failed to manage a single shot on target in the first half. Telkom’s back-line under the stewardship of experienced Kenyan International Terry Juma handled the troublesome Pauline Naise with ease with her runs and dribbles neutralised. Prior to the match, Telkom’s duo of Jackline Mwangi and Audrey Omaido as well as Amira’s Naise had 19 goals to their names but it was Mwangi who hit the 20th goal of the season after her field goal in the 11th minute.  The evergreen Mwangi combined well with an overlapping Lilian Aura in the box and with Amira’s custodian already advancing to clear the ball, Aura rounded her off to pick Mwangi who slotted home the opener in an empty goal. Mwangi would have doubled the scores two minutes later from Maureen Okumu’s cross but her shot went inches wide. Barbara Simiyu fired home Telkom’s second goal in the 34th minute, deflecting Audrey Omaido’s effort to hand Jos Openda’s side a 2-0 lead at half time. Upon resuming for the final half, Omaido took matters in her own hands, weaving past defenders and her final shot proved too much for Rachael Kerubo to handle.The goal saw her move on level with Mwangi on 20 goals, extending the race for the ‘golden stick’ to the wire. Amira first attempt came in the 44th minute when Naise picked a long ball from Lorraine Nondi to successfully beat Telkom’s stopper Cynthia Onyango but Terry Juma made a goal saving clearance to deny Naise her 20th goal of the season. Six minutes later, Amira were punished for the squandered chance as Simiyu completed her brace with a field goal.Amira pulled one back through Yvette Kanyandong two minutes later before Lillian Aura curled home Telkom’s fifth goal six minutes to stoppage time. The win moved Telkom to 48 points, just four away from Premiership crown. Earlier on at the same venue, Strathmore University Scorpions taught University of Nairobi hockey lessons when Nairobi West side mauled their fellow students 6-0 to move second with 36 points. Kenyan International Gilly Okumu claimed a hat-trick in the 9th,37th and 50th minutes while Dennise Odongo(15), Lynn Ayuma (4) and Winnie Ingati (23) completed the rout for Scorpions.