Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju is very much around. Contrary to speculation that he has gone under and could probably be in trouble in a neighbouring country, the former Cabinet Minister says he is not in any danger. In fact, he continues to do his job as usual. The only difference, he says, is that politics is over and it’s now time for work. Well, the eloquent Tuju was in fact in Kigali last weekend to represent the Jubilee party at the 30th anniversary of the Rwanda Patriotic Front. ***** Corridors wonders what happened with the National Resistance Movement's economic boycott. The NASA outfit has not gone back to brief its followers on its impact and whether it should continue. Our mole confirms that a number of MPs did not in fact "resist", and the loud silence on the boycott activities is raising eyebrows on what has happened behind the scenes. ***** Handlers of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s social media must be a smart team. The State House or Cambridge Analytica buffs, or a combination, have crafted a smart way to keep NASA diehards from setting the agenda on @ukenyatta's social media. They will always be the first to comment on the President’s update immediately he puts up a new post on FB or Twitter. Their style of writing is however the same in all the upper comments. To understand the opposition, the President should also go to the comments further down. ****** The Sonko Rescue Team is being closely watched in Nairobi West. Locals allege the team which moves around in hordes is harassing them. The situation became serious last week, after the Rescue Team created a temporary dumpsite at Birongo Square, just opposite where ambitious women sell fresh fish in the area. The team then went on to the Ngumo stage where it dumped more heaps of garbage. ***** Troubl3 is brewing between the staff of the National Oil Corporation and one of its top officials. A source from within the company intimated to Corridors that the employees are fed up with the arrogance and unilateral sackings by the official that have seen the corporation lose tens of senior and experienced staff in recent months. The latest case is that of the head of HR, who was recently reinstated by the courts after being dismissed. Our source says the official, whom employees consider to be incompetent and unqualified, is said to enjoy protection from seniors at the Energy ministry. National Oil employees are anxiously waiting for the new appointments in the hope that President Uhuru Kenyatta will relieve them of the agony since appeals to Energy CS Charles Keter have borne no fruit.  