A retired Mombasa Bishop has
blasted vicars who moved to court to challenge the win of
successor-elect Alphonce Baya. Julius Kalu, who held the position at the  Anglican Church of Kenya for 24 years, said the competitors have exposed church matters to courts. Baya was elected following Kalu's
retirement but his anointing scheduled for January is in limbo as five
vicars and an administrator have sued. They are Reverends Ven Baha (Nyali),
Chrispus Nyaule (Ukunda), Nelson Mwangiri (Msambweni), Tom Komora
(Kiembeni), Emmanuel Nzaka (Bamburi) and George Goha (Mombasa dioceses
administrative secretary). In the election on Saturday, Baya trounced Mombasa Memorial Cathedral Provost Reverend Festus Kiseu
and vicar of ACK St John Church Rev. Can. Richard Otieno. Kalu said: "I
would urge the clergy and the laity...[on matters that] involve the
church [you]
should not be quick to go to court because we have enough people who can
handle such disputes. "If there is a problem, we ought to
sit down, talk and resolve it. We should not have the habit of
resorting to courts." Kalu said
he was not aware of any irregularities based on allegations that one candidate drummed up support through SMSs. There were
claims the search committee was formed without procedure and that the standing
committee of the synod was not consulted, making the outcome of the vote illegal. Baya garnered 15 votes against Keseu's nine and Otieno's one. But the retired Bishop said: "I'm not aware of any irregularities because I'm not a member of any
electoral college. I was not involved in the formation of the electoral
college therefore I cannot comment on any irregularities." Kalu, who is the second respondent in the suit, further said Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit - the third respondent - has not communication officially on the vote, making Baya "just a Bishop-elect". "He has not yet announced the name [of the winner] and I cannot take it
upon myself to do so. We pray for peace... the Mombasa diocese has always been peaceful." Kalu said he was happy with his retirement. "The work I have done in 24 years as the longest-serving Bishop gives me reason to thank God," he said. "The
diocese had only 22 parishes when I took over. It grew up to over 100
parishes.The Mombasa diocese bore Taita Taveta and Malindi." The clergyman said he will not join politics but will continue serving God. "I will also go back to school and take courses in theology and law." Kalu also spoke about politics, asking President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga to hold talks so there is no bloodshed. More on this: Reach out to Raila, ex-Bishop tells Uhuru, says no room for two rulers Click here for latest political news