Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo has blamed cartels for his failure to clinch the position as chair of the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi was elected the chairman after garnering 15 votes, while Amollo got no votes. Wandayi will take over from Nicholas Gumbo who is the former Rarieda MP. Read: Wandayi elected PAC chairman, Jessica Mbalu takes deputy post But Amollo said on Twitter he has been accountable and did not see why he could not get the post. "As first Ombudsman, I did all I could to hold Government accountable. I had hoped to do so in Parliament as Chair of Parliamentary Accounts Committee, but the Cartels wouldn’t allow," he said on Monday. He added "One day, Parliament will serve the People!" His followers on social media told him that it is okay to 'feel cheated' after a loss, while others told him to move on. "It's Normal to feel that way after a loss. Prepare for Siaya Governor," @BillyMijungu said. @job_desire said "we always live to fight another day." "Mheshimiwa still you can do so because you are a member of Parliament who will be part to discuss the reports tabled by PAC,"@princemayieka said. @MuneneTitoh said "accept defeat honourably." "You don't have to be PAC chairman to positively contribute to maendeleo in KE or hold government or any other government entity accountable.From where you are as a MP, may your impact be seen sir," @CheboiwoJaphet said. @mwanawassa said "Salutes; You did your best, Don't give up there is tomorrow after today. "Counsel by now you know cartels can't live in the light. Get into parliament and expose them. Don't worry which committee/ position you are. Different circumstances different techniques," @adamadialo90 said.  PAC is responsible for the examination of the accounts showing the appropriations of the sum voted by the House to meet the public expenditure and of such other accounts laid before the House as the Committee may think fit. The Public Accounts Committee elects a chairperson and vice-chairperson from amongst its members. Click here for latest political news