Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider the three pillars of the county in his government when appointing Cabinet and Principal Secretaries. He, however, said he is grateful for the gesture of opposition leader Raila Odinga, who postponed plans to be sworn in as the People’s President. “I thank God for touching the heart of the former Prime Minister to abandon his dangerous and ill-fated attempt to be illegally installed as President,” Kiraitu said.  “Kenya is not ripe for revolution and bloodshed. We want peace and prosperity.” Kiraitu spoke at the Jamhuri Day rally at Kaaga Primary School. “My plea to Uhuru is to remember Meru. When Bernard Mati was called to Gatundu by the first President of Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, and was asked what Meru people wanted, he said he wanted Mt Kenya flattened so that people in Gatundu can see Meru,” the governor said. He added that he is also asking Uhuru to flatten Mt Kenya to see Meru. “We are here. We are for you, and as you constitute your government, put Meru people in your kitchen. Let us see all our three pillar stones,” Kiraitu said. The three stones referred to the Igembe, Tigania and Imenti subtribes. Many youths and the elderly did not attend the rally. But Kiraitu said youths do not attend Jamhuri Day celebrations because of hunger, joblessness and poverty.  “The majority of young people do not find any meaning in Jamhuri Day because of unemployment. To the old people who have been neglected by their children, the fruit of Independence tastes bitter,” the governor said.  He said the county has allocated Sh100 million to rollout the Meru Youth Service early next year to promote youth empowerment and self-development. His sentiments were echoed by North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood, who said the President should balance the whole of the Meru region when constituting his government. He said Meru must be rewarded for having voted for Jubilee overwhelmingly.  The MP said poverty and hunger have turned out to be modern day colonialists. Kiraitu said the county will ensure school heads and the county commissioner create former schools alumni associations to help youth set up networks to help them get jobs. On matters to do with land, Kiraitu said all landowners ought to have a title deed, but there are too many land dispute cases in court. “Meru has the highest murder and land-related cases and those titles will not come until the cases are concluded,” Kiraitu said. He urged the parties to consider out-of-court settlements to reduce the number of cases.