Residents of Kisaju in Kajiado have rejected a planned donkey abattoir to be set up by a Chinese firm. Elder Kipury ole Kantai yesterday said it is a taboo in the Maasai culture for a man to slaughter a donkey. “We have never heard of that. We are saying no to the Chinese practice. Today, they are slaughtering donkeys, no one knows what they will come up tomorrow,” he said. Kaputiei North MCA Joshua Olowuasa and residents said when the You Qi firm bought three acres along the Isinya-Kiserian Road, officials lied about the plan for the land. We only knew their real intentions when their representative, EMC Consultants, called a consultative forum at the site on Wednesday, they said. The consulting firm, situated off Riara Road in Nairobi, said the Chinese company was licensed by the county last year. Chief Samuel Marandu said they were invited to the site on October 6 and were shocked to learn the company had been licensed by the county government to operate a donkey slaughterhouse. He showed journalists a letter inviting residents for a stakeholders’ forum for a social impact assessment. The company plans to slaughter between 80 -100 donkeys daily in the first year. Olowuasa said allowing the slaughterhouse plan to proceed will lead to theft of donkeys. The community uses the animals to carry water. Theft of donkeys is rampant to satisfy the Chinese market. “Governor Joseph ole Lenku is aware the former regime licensed the firm without getting the views of the people. My people are offended. They will not be allowed to operate under my leadership,” Olowuasa said. Kenya’s first donkey abattoir in Baringo is doing brisk business since it was opened nearly two years ago. Donkey meat and products are mainly exported to China. Goldox Abattoir in Mogotio slaughters at least 300 donkeys daily. “The meat is not for local consumption, but solely for export,” a health officer told a local daily. Goldox, which was opened in April 2016, is owned by Chinese businessman Lu Donglin. It receives between 400-600 donkeys daily from Turkana, Trans Mara, Maralal and Tanzania. The donkeys cost Sh8,000. Restaurants in China serve special donkey dishes. Donkey hide is used to make Chinese medicine and anti-aging serum. The medicine is used for treating health conditions including, bleeding, dizziness, insomnia and dry cough.