Pan-African non-bank financial institution African Guarantee Fund is planning to reach at least 10,000 small and medium-sized enterprise in Kenya through provision of partial loan guarantees by 2019. AGF chief executive officer Felix Bikpo revealed this last week when he announced that the institution has received an Insurance Financial Strength of 'AA-' (very strong) from Fitch Ratings. He said his organisation has given at least Sh8.2 billion to six Kenyan financiers in the past five years to secure small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) lending through provision of partial loan guarantees and capacity development assistance ''SME sector is the engine of economic growth in Africa. We are committed to increase funding to this sector by mitigating risk for at least 10,000 SMEs in Kenya in 2018-2019. Our primary objective is to reduce the funding gap for African SMEs, profitability is not the main performance metric,'' said Bikpo “ We have provided $80 million of guarantee fund to six Kenyan financial institutions since 2012. We plan to triple this amount in the next two years,” said Bikpo Although he did not reveal names of six banks that the organisation is working with in Kenya citing confidentiality, Bikpo said that plans are underway to bring more banks in the country on board. In 2015, AGF completed its first external growth operation with $35 million (Sh3.5 billion) acquisition of Garantee Fund for Private Investment in Africa (GARI Fund). This saw it accelerate its presence in Africa It has since signed close to $650 million (Sh6.5 trillion) of guarantee agreements with at least 80 partner financial institutions in 40 countries in the continent This is good news to SMEs and startups which continue to grapple with funding challenges due to their perceived risk status. This has been worsened by the interest cap law that has seen lenders tighten credit standards. In March, Central Bank of Kenya decried dwindling lending profile to SMEs with statistics showing that lending to micro, small and medium size enterprises (MSMEs) fell by 5.7 per cent in the first quarter Lending to the sector dropped from Sh233 billion in August 2016 to Sh220 billion with big banks becoming more cautious. “Although the smaller banks have increased SME lending, the bigger banks have recorded a reduction. There are 1.7 million MSMEs in Kenya, and therefore it is a concern since this is where job creation is and the output for economic growth will take place,” said CBK governor Patrick Njoroge. Although 60-70 per cent of new jobs in Kenya arise from the SME sector which contributes up to 33.8 per cent to GDP, a recent study by the World Bank indicates that 70 per cent of SMEs lack access to medium and long term finance, creating an SEM funding gap of $140 billion in Africa.