The large garden, with tall trees and flower bushes, makes the Steak Out Restaurant a good option for leisurely meals and family dining. Even on cool days, people enjoy sitting outdoors with a lighted jiko to keep them warm. The proprietor, Cheryl Barretto, explained that when she decided on a steakhouse menu, she was looking for a unique location away from malls or commercial buildings. Steak Out has a substantial selection of main course items in addition to steaks such as T-bone, fillet, strip loin, rump steak and rib-eye.  Their prime grade beef is fresh but they plan to introduce aged beef in due course. At the corner of the menu is an explanation of the different done-ness of steaks. I choose a medium-cooked sirloin steak. It was tender and juicy, and I noticed it looked larger than usual.  Baretto explained that they serve a 330gm portion instead of the typical 250gm. But the menu does have a smaller Fillet Head Steak for ‘the less hungry’. Other meat options are pork belly, pork chops and lamb leg steak. From the white meat selection is whole tilapia and grilled red snapper, quarter marinated chicken and chef’s grilled chicken.  Vegetarians have a choice pasta, vegetable lasagne, green tomato risotto and a Chef’s curry. Meals are accompanied by your choice of potatoes, rice or pumpkin gratin, vegetables and different sauces.  There is a mini steak choice for children as well as burgers, chicken nuggets and fish fingers from the Kiddies Menu. Their wines are from all around the world, and I chose a merlot to go with my meal. Steak Out also has their own original cocktails and mocktails. Although the restaurant is located near a busy road, traffic noise is not disruptive within the attractive outdoor space.  On weekdays, this restaurant is a suitable place for business lunches, as there are several indoor seating areas that give additional privacy.  A covered rooftop lounge is popular for drinks and light meals from the ‘bitings’ menu. Their list of whiskies has descriptions of the different characteristics of each, such as smoky, spicy, light floral or full-bodied.   Location: 102 Manyani East Road, Lavington, Nairobi Contacts: +254 726 211443; info@steakout.co.ke Star rating: 4/5