Outrage greeted the release of the 2017 KCSE examination results amid calls by political leaders and teachers’ unions for a thorough probe. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i abruptly called education officials to Nairobi on Wednesday and shocked Kenyans with early release of results of the Kenya Certifi cate of Secondary Education exam.  ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru also spoke. Read : Girls top KCSE as 88 per cent fail to qualify for university Traditionally, the results are released in February but the government has been on a mission of reducing the turn-around period. Fast-tracking of the results has been attributed to the use of information technology. The results have sparked outrage over what some have termed as “mass failure”, with the integrity of the marking process being called into question. NASA leader Raila Odinga and both teachers’ unions were united in their condemnation of the results and the manner in which they were released. Activist Okiya Omtatah filed an urgent application in court on Friday, seeking orders to compel the Kenya National Examination Council to release certified copies of the marked answer sheets of all candidates who sat exams this year to the schools or examination centres. “Candidates who sit Kenya Certificate of Primary Education or the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations have a right to receive certifi ed copies of their marked answer sheets,” Omtatah says.  Separately, the Kenya National Union of Teachers said the KCSE exam results should be recalled over “irregularities in the marking process”. “There seems to be a deliberate effort to force more students to join tertiary institutions,” Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said. “Reduction in the number of students joining universities is an indicator of disaster. Something is wrong.” Sossion, also an ODM nominated MP, claimed that the marking process does not meet international standards of measurement and evaluation and should be thoroughly audited. His counterpart, Kuppet secretary general Omboko Milemba, also called for an audit of the results, claiming that marking was still ongoing for some papers. “We cannot hurry to release results and celebrate mass failure of students,” he said. Milemba claimed that the ministry of Education locked out key stakeholders from the venue of the launch, fearing they would raise concerns about “terrible” conditions for examiners during marking.  Also read : Results for 10 schools withheld over exam malpractice Sossion accused Knec as currently constituted of lacking credibility, “as it does not have a substantive Chief Executive Officer”.  He said Knec Chairman George Magoha and Education CS Matiang’i have usurped the powers of acting CEO Mercy Karogo. NASA leader Raila called for the formation of a task force to investigate the “mass failure”, as education stakeholders questioned the whole secrecy and ambush that has characterised the release of national examination results. The opposition leader, who has previously criticised “unilateral policies in the education sector”, said the low transition from secondary school to university was becoming serious cause for worry.  “Close to 90 per cent of the KCSE candidates have failed. This is very worrying,” Raila said in a statement. He said the ministry should address concerns raised by parents and teachers’ unions on the unprecedented failure. “As the country commits resources to free learning and scales up enrollment, the whole purpose and value for money is lost when close to 90 per cent of those students eventually fail,” the former Prime Minister said.  This year’s KCSE exam results show that only 70,073 out of the 611,952 candidates just 11.5 per cent managed the minimum university entry qualification of a mean grade of C+. This means that in every 10 candidates who sat the examination, only one qualified to transit to university, condemning the majority to tertiary institutions. In the 2016 KCSE exam, 88, 929 students scored a C+ and above to book themselves places in the country’s over 70 universities. Last year, the Kenya Universities and Colleges Placement Service selected 71,089 students in public universities, while 17,368 students joined private universities on government sponsorship. Union officials were absent from the Wednesday unveiling of the results, lifting the lid on the simmering wars pitting them against the ministry. “This is a national event that involves stakeholders. It was unfortunate that we were barred from the ceremony just because the minister knew well that examiners had not been paid after completing the marking process,” Milemba charged. The trade unionist and Emuhaya MP claimed that the 20,000 examiners hired by Knec to mark this year’s examinations had not been paid their dues as promised earlier by Matiang’i. “They could have been paid like their KCPE counterparts,” he added. Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo Odhiambo asked how only 142 students out of 615,773 could get grade A-plain, unlike the past when a single school in his constituency would post the same results.  Also read :  KCSE 2017: Read list of top 10 students nationally “What Matiang’i did on Wednesday was a government’s public relations exercise. I believe our students did better than what we are witnessing,” Odhiambo said.  The Star learnt yesterday that examiners worked well into midnight in some cases, despite tough regulations on marking limiting the exercise to 7am to 7pm.  The highly supervised examiners would be allowed only 30 minutes tea break and up to an hour lunch break, as they raced against time to finish marking before Christmas. They also worked throughout Jamhuri Day when other Kenyans were on holiday, marking 54 years of independence. President Uhuru Kenyatta had during his swearing-in directed that all candidates who sat the KCSE examination get their results before December 25. On Wednesday, principals and ministry officials who were invited for release of exam results were asked to go to Jogoo House for a meeting. They were not informed about the agenda. However, the venue was changed to Nairobi School at the last minute, signifying the confidentiality of the release of the results. The media was informed a few hours to the event, in the blanket of secrecy that has been thrown around Matiang’i’s education sector reforms. It turns out that some of the statistics had not been prepared and could not be released.  Yesterday, Knec could not provide the list of the worst-performing schools and students when requested by the Star.  Matiang’i, who joined the Cabinet in 2013 as Education CS, has been on the spot over radical policies at Jogoo House, with his critics accusing him of initiating revolutionary steps away from tradition. Initially, Kenyans were accustomed to an elaborate ceremonial release of national examination results. However, in 2015, two years into office, Matiang’i radically played down the release of examinations in what he said was an attempt to deal with parents’ and students’ anxiety. Now, the ceremonies are not only brief but also secretive, without much ado, beginning with a briefing for the President. The radical measures introduced in the administration of the examination have been applauded and criticised in equal measure. While some credit the reforms for reduced cheating in exams, some stakeholders believe the CS is undermining them. Kenyan Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said it was normal for people to resist change, hence, the uproar by a section of stakeholders. “We shall be meeting on Friday to deliberate on the fate of the E-students,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 