Jubilee MPs in Kakamega have reached out to their counterparts in the Opposition so that they work together towards the complete revival of cash-strapped Mumias Sugar. The parliamentarians, led by Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe, said they have reached consensus with some of the leaders who have agreed to work with them on the plan. "We have agreed to put behind our party affiliations and propagate for full revival of the mill which is the bedrock of western Kenya's economy." Wangwe, who is the vice chair of the Agriculture Committee in the National Assembly, spoke at the Mumias Sugar AGM held at that Booker Academy on Friday. He said they will formulate a bill that will streamline the sugar industry and save the farmers from the woes they face in the wake of the dwindling returns from the crop. "I have asked my fellow MPs to come on board through supporting parliamentary motions concerning Mumias Sugar," Wangwe said. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and Bernard Shinali of Ikolomani also attended the annual general meeting. Washiali, also the National Assembly Majority chief whip, said it was important for all leaders in the sugar belt to unite for the benefit of the farmers. "Sugarcane farming is very important to the country's economy. We should work together with all MPs from this area to revive our mills." He asked the national government to help write off farmer’s debts further asking the Agriculture ministry to enforce regulations governing the sugar sector. Washiali asked CS Willy Bett to engage the Attorney General Githu Muigai so that the regulations and laws governing the sector are gazetted. For his part, Shinali, who is a member of the House Budget Committee, said they have allocated Sh500 million for the company in the supplementary budget 2017/18. "We are processing another bailout of Sh500 million for Mumias so that the new management can ensure the miller goes full throttle," the lawmaker said. He added that the Jubilee administration under President Uhuru Kenyatta is committed to helping sugarcane farmers. Also read: Mumias Sugar to probe alleged misuse of Sh3.2bn bailout cash   Click here for the latest political news     