FORM One selection has
triggered a hue and cry from some parents. Some are now bitterly blaming the
education ministry headed by Fred
Matiang’i. For instance, there are two top girls, both of whom sat their
exams in Nairobi. One scored 421 and was called to Asumbi Girls’ High
School, a school she did not choose. The other had 401, but was called to
Kisumu Girls. “Matiang’i has been saying Form One shall be placed in the
schools they chose, provided they have 400. Now they are placing them according
to ethnicity,” an angry parent was heard to protest. Maybe the ministry should
set the record straight and avoid what appears to be disfranchising the future
of the nation.   FORMER Nyamira gubernatorial
aspirant Walter Nyambati is a man
basking in full glory. The two-term ex-Kitutu Masaba MP is savouring the moment
he has been waiting for, as he prepares to run again for the governorship he
argues slipped from his fingers narrowly at the August 8 polls. Nyambati believes
he is only a heartbeat away from becoming the county chief after a major
victory in his petition against Governor John
Nyagarama of ODM. The High Court sitting in Nyamira has ordered a recount
and scrutiny of votes in at least 90 polling stations, in what Nyambati, who
ran on the Jubilee ticket, hopes would unearth the truth behind what he claims
was a “bungled election”.       THE construction of illegal
kiosks and stalls by the roadsides in Nairobi has reached a climax. Kenyans are
asking who is asleep at City Hall? The worst hit are the roads in Eastlands,
where hundreds of kiosks have been erected. The once ruthless officials from
City Hall’s Inspectorate Department appears to have been punctured, with moles
at the County Government whispering to Corridors that they are now “victims of
fears of the unknown”. Just last week, a police officer at Buruburu police
station turned violent after the kiosk he was putting up along Mumias
South Road, just near Prudential Court where Governor Mike Sonko used to live, before relocating, was demolished by
unidentified people.