  Things were so messy that some Kenyans pushed the
secession agenda. The clamour, however, hasn’t ended yet. In many instances, we
felt we were on the brink of political disintegration. This is when leaders,
due to brinkmanship, refused to sit down and discuss issues that required their
inputs to allow the IEBC apple time and space to prepare for the repeat election. The electioneering period brought to the surface the
ugly side of our politics. Following the nullification of the repeat election,
opposition supporters broke out in celebration. But no sooner No sooner had
these celebrations cascaded than the political elites begun their theatrics.  The leading political factions NASA and Jubilee engaged
each other in protracted criticisms and attacks over the repeat election. NASA
accused Jubilee of introducing new electoral laws before the repeat election
could be conducted. To NASA, this would disadvantage them. Jubilee could hear none
of that. They pressed on, accusing their competitors for sensing defeat and
engaging in sideshows for public relations exercises, with the end goal being
winning public sympathy. Hopes of having a smooth repeat election were slowly
ebbing out. Clearly, the stage was set for political discord. We survived the
full turmoil by grace.  This epoch in
our country political history has taught us immense lessons. The role of the
media and the Judiciary came out as indisputable in our constitutional
democracy.  Media kept us informed on
everything that was going on in the country. Politicians, especially from the
opposition, resorted to press conferences after the Supreme Court ruling. Media
came out as a reliable source of information. Most TV stations had political
analysts from both sides.  But, as would
be expected, very few analysts were objective. The majority whom comprised of
politicians, in their own right, were more interested in promoting their party
positions on various issues that were at the centre of antagonism that in
informing.  Judiciary stamped its authority as an indispensible
institution in Kenya’s democratisation process. 
Its historic ruling was celebrated with gusto across the borders. We
were once again reminded of the independence of the judiciary as clearly
defined in the Constitution. Despite the glaring election conduct mistakes from
the IEBC, no one ever imagined that an African court could overturn the
presidential election. This still baffles many as to how exactly the ‘Maraga Court’
decided to go against the grain.  Critics didn’t mince their words. They asserted that
the court was influenced by Raila Odinga words that he had given the Supreme
court a chance to redeem to itself after it failed to so in the 2013 presidential
election petition. President Uhuru Kenyatta, came out guns blazing and poured
scorn on the Supreme Court for overturning the “will of the people”.  When the second petition found its way to court,
people questioned whether the same court would dare order for repeat election
after all the drama the country had witnessed. The argument that gained
traction was that the problem wasn’t the courts or the Constitution. It was
political crisis which was exacerbated after NASA presidential candidate
withdrew from the race albeit informally.
When the court chose to uphold the second petition, most people said it was
expected in that the court had no other option. This brings to the fore the
debate as to whether it is necessary to have repeat election in future despite
the irregularities that may arise. To many, the whole process was seen as
expensive excursion which amounted to nothing. The IEBC, which is an independent commission, was at
the verge of breaking point. People joked about it and derided its performance.
 Leaked memos and the resignation of
Roselyn Akombe led to the speculation that it was a divided house, whose
downfall was inevitable. The commission monumentally failed to inspire public
confidence. Some Kenyans still have reservations on whether it can prepare for
2022 as it is currently constituted. This is the discussion we need to initiate
in earnest, lest we find ourselves with the same electoral grievances after
five years.  The election is now behind us. Nonetheless, people
haven’t forgotten what almost threw our beloved country into anarchy. Memories
are afresh to the fact that people lost their lives and property destroyed. The
question to duty bearers and virtually everyone should be how do we heartedly
apologise and sooth the memories of the bereaved families, compensate those who
lost their property, and genuinely take a solemn declaration as a country that
never will we make a mockery of ourselves? It is possible to come up with the
processes that can lead to that desired future. And when we commit to that kind
of future, we will begin to heal and rebuild our nation.  Happy Festive season dear Kenyans!      