COULD a
disgruntled official in one of NASA affiliate parties be behind the coalition’s
split on parliamentary leadership positions? Right. Word has it that an
official in NASA’s four parties is a bitter man, after suffering double
jeopardy, politically speaking. It is said the official’s fruitless push to
have his wife nominated as an MCA angered him a lot. Worse still, the official
recently suffered a setback after his push for the party to nominate him to the
EALA again hit a snag. Our mole tells Corridors the official has now ganged up
with another disgruntled party member in Parliament, who vainly piled pressure
on their bosses for a top House position. Corridors is told the duo have
resorted to painting some coalition members in bad light through media.     IS someone asleep
on the job at Kalonzo Musyoka’s
Wiper Democratic Party? Well, Corridors yesterday took a tour to the party’s
website and the site still has former Kitui senator David Musili, former Nyali MP Awiti
Bolo and former Mombasa senator Hassan
Omar as chairman, treasurer and secretary general, respectively, months
after the trio publicly resigned from the party. The website still has Omar’s
image as its cover photo, despite the former SG launching a scathing attack at
the party for his dismal performance in the Mombasa gubernatorial race.   A former
governor from one of the counties in Northeastern is contemplating changing
lawyers representing him in his petition. This is after he realized that his
case is weakening by the day, and might be dismissed by the courts. The
desperate ex-governor was recently heard by Corridors arguing loudly with one
of his lawyers outside the court in Nairobi. It’s not yet clear whether the
equally defiant lawyer has been shown the door   TENANTS of a
popular building in Mombasa that houses a state media house are an unhappy lot.
It is alleged that, despite a staggering Sh20 million having been pumped into
renovations, tiles are already peeling off and the roof is leaking. Some
employees believe senior managers in Nairobi conspired with the cowboy
contractor to do a shoddy job. There are indications a vacuum left by a former
manager of a TV station housed in the building is being exploited by some
junior staff to make a killing. The building has been running on diesel generators
after Kenya Power cut off electricity supply due to a Sh1 million bill.
Employees are puzzled that diesel generators in the building and another
adjacent one gobble up Sh34,000 in fuel – daily.    