The Employment and Labour Relations Court has stopped court proceedings of 157 sacked Kenya Airways engineers and technicians who were reinstated on Monday. This is after KQ, through their lawyers, filed a motion of appeal at the Court of Appeal challenging the orders given by Justice Hellen Wasilwa. Justice Wasilwa was told that immediately after the orders of reinstatement were given, the KQ management went ahead and served all the engineers with letters sending them on compulsory leave. However, Wasilwa stopped the proceedings to allow the Court of Appeal time to hear and determine KQ’s contention and protest against the court order. KQ argued that they were not given time to submit their responses on the orders of reinstatement given by the court. The lawyers also argued over an application by some the engineers who are said to have opted out of the suit out of their own resolve. However, the number of those employees who are planning to abandon the case was not disclosed to the court as the application will be heard in February. The case will be heard on February 1, 2018. On Monday, the same court ordered Kenya Airways to reinstate the sacked engineers and technicians with immediate effect pending the hearing and determination of a suit contesting their sacking. Justice Wasilwa reinstated them on grounds that it was very unsafe for passengers to fly on planes that are not serviced, given that it is a high travelling season. "I am like any other passenger who uses flights to travel and it is risky to use planes which have not been serviced since all the engineers and technicians have been sacked, I therefore order KQ to reinstate them with immediate effect", the judge ruled. KQ had applied for an adjournment stating that they needed more time to file their response before any orders are given by the court. However, the engineers' lawyer, Dismas Wambola, argued that the court should give an order for the engineers to be reinstated as KQ files their responses. Last week, the court ordered KQ to refrain from replacing the engineers and also suspended an action by the airline to fire them after they moved to court to challenge their dismissal. “Pending inter-partes hearing and determination of this application, an order be and is hereby issued against the respondent directing the suspension of the purported dismissal of the applicants and maintenance of the status quo with no loss of seniority, privileges, salary, benefits and allowances,” the court order stated.