The opposition was working behind the scenes to cause chaos during the August 8 and October 26 elections, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has said. He said: "It was through the grace of God that the country has remained peaceful. Now that we have emerged from such trying moments, Kenyans should view each other as equals and move on." "Elections come and go but the Kenyan state and its people remain. As such, let us pull together as we dialogue positively on common issues and take this country to the next level." Kibicho made the remarks when he addressed mourners at Kibiru Anglican Church grounds in Kirinyaga county during the burial of Hannah Wambui, 97. The late was the mother of the director of the National Registration Bureau Reuben Muriuki. He told the gathering that time for politics was long over following President Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration last Tuesday. "Immediately the President was sworn in, the many months of politicking came to an end. We must embark on serious nation building to recover the time we lost during the time," he said. Read: NASA unveils team to guide on People’s Assembly execution Governor Ann Waiguru, who was present, told those who have already started laying 2022 election strategies to give her space to enable her deliver on what she promised during the campaigns. "The dust is yet to settle after the gruelling electioneering period. We must now start delivering what we promised as we traversed the county seeking for votes which you generously gave us," she said. Waiguru said she was not bothered by those who have since embarked on the premature campaigns since it was too early for the same. The leaders spoke amid calls to the National Super Alliance to stop their push for a People's Assembly to pave way for either a fresh election, Raila Odinga's swearing-in, or self-determination.   Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa laughed off NASA's saying the Opposition need no reminder that the next election will
be held in 2022. Read: The game is over until 2022, Marwa tells NASA over People's Assembly plan Also read: Raila sends invitation cards for December 12 swearing in Click here for the latest political stories  