Everybody wants more money. When the Salaries and Remuneration Commission reduced MPs’ salaries and allowances, the Members of the County Assemblies and the Members of Parliament did not take it lightly.  They have been trying to look for means and ways to make more money. The other day they increased the number of committees and insisted that everyone must be in a minimum of two committees. That is a clever way to make money. The more committees you are in, the more money you can make. They have been trying to look for ways and means of increasing their earnings. But the main problem that faces the country is the wastage of money in government. There is a lot of wastage in government. Much as we would want to blame the MPs for trying to increase what they are earning, the last elections were very expensive. People started campaigning early and a lot of them are indebted. There are a lot of challenges and the problem is when you don’t have a proper functional kitty, then the MPs think that they can create a social welfare system by giving handouts to the electorate. But, you see, it becomes less productive, since the more money you give the MCAs and MPs the more the electorates want. The only way to address the current challenges is to ensure you have a functional system where people get good healthcare, education and other services easily. I mprove the quality and make services easily available, then wananchi will not have to ask the MPs for more money. But someone, somewhere is being clever inside the PSC. Their term has ended and there is no commission currently to go to court. For a commission to be properly constituted, there must be commissioners. In fact, the PSC cannot go to court and if someone moved to court the case would be dead. Legally, there is no PSC and who is this who has gone to court! The SRC is not fully constituted and they cannot go to court. Any serious judge would look at the status of the commission and dismiss the case. Every Kenyan is suffering after a prolonged electioneering period. The MPs and MCAs must accept that everybody else is affected by the bad economy. They should look for long-term measurers to address the economy. The WRITER is a political analyst 