Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's son visited his ailing mother in Germany on Thursday. Kennedy Musyoka was accompanied by  Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr. "Thank you Senator Mutula Kilonzo for checking on me. God Bless You and God Bless Kenya," Kalonzo said on Facebook. Pictures posted by Kalonzo show the three sharing a meal, then posing while standing in an unidentified eatery.  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka with Senator Mutula Kilonzo jnr. /COURTESY Kalonzo has been in Germany attending to his wife Pauline for some weeks now. For over two years, Pauline, who was previously admitted to Nairobi Hospital, has been undergoing treatment for an unknown ailment. She works with Central Bank of Kenya and is on medical leave. Read: My wife Pauline is not dead, Kalonzo dispels rumours "GET WELL SOON" Kenyans sent 'get well soon' messages to the Kalonzo family, saying that God will see them through. "Kalonzo left everything ... Everything ... To be at the bedside of his sick wife. All this time. Humble. Nothing much. Just at the bedside of his sick wife. This is nothing but love. Get well soon Mrs Kalonzo," @ItsMutai said. Facebook user Jeffrey Jeffy said "You can rest in the fact that God is in control. Which means that you can face things that are out of your control and not act out of control." "Wishing you strength with your family and quick recovery for Mrs. Musyoka." User Joseph Kilele said "God is faithful, grace will be given to you in times such as this ... I will add on to say that God at times whispers to our hearts in relation to life destinies and blessed is he who reads and comprehends His voice."  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Senator Mutula Kilonzo jnr and Kennedy Muysoka. /COURTESY "May the Lord of All creations answer your humble prayers and administer healing to your lovely wife. Hon. Kalonzo you have passed the test, for good or for worse, in good health and in sickness. May the Lord encourage you and family," Nancy Waweru said. User Sheila Mutunga said "The precious hand of God is upon you Hon. SK and your family, may your beloved wife and our mama find total healing in Jesus mighty name ... It is well." Last month, NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula visited Kalonzo alongside Governors Josphat Nanok (Turkana) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni). They took a picture at an unidentified hospital. More on this: Wetang'ula visits Kalonzo in Germany, Raila expected   Click here for the latest political stories