WHAT has become of the vocal
Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju? The former Rarieda MP and close
ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta has taken an unusual political
hibernation since the October 26 repeat presidential poll. Kenyans – surely the
world’s leading social media political fanatics - are on his case, trying to
attach all manner of insinuations to his absence from the political arena. Some
of the online bullies have sparked speculation that the SG could have crossed
the 'red line' in a neighbouring country, where he is allegedly ‘held up’.
Could Tuju have taken a lull from the political scene to concentrate on
‘personal issues’ or he is basking in the advance glory of an impending plum
job in Uhuru’s administration? ***** A Jubilee MP from Nyamira
county who trounced a staunch NASA lieutenant in the August 8 poll was last
week embarrassed when a judge reprimanded him for mumbling while in the dock
submitting evidence. The lawmaker could not coherently put forward his evidence
and often veered off the trail as the former NASA MP’s lawyer pressed him hard.
At some point, the MP sent the court into a light moment when he was forced to
confirm whether he is really the MP expected in court. “What is difficult in
answering the questions, are you really the MP who we see contributing very
well to debates in the House?” asked the judge, to the amusement of the court
attendees. The MP faltered throughout the cross-examination session. ***** A senior Jubilee MP in
Parliament is under siege from his party and State House too. The fiery
lawmaker is said to have cut a deal with a section of MPs in a vigorous
horse-trade that worked in favour of a certain candidate in whom he had an interest.
The avid debater drew the ire of the House on the Hill after it emerged that he
even connived with some opposition MPs to vote in a certain way that saw three
Northern Kenya counties land three EALA slots. A section of Jubilee MPs are
unhappy with the manner in which the elections for the regional Parliament reps
were conducted, pointing an accusing finger at the senior lawmaker. ***** HOW did former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae fall in the EALA
elections last week, despite having been assured by Jubilee Party that he was
guaranteed a slot? The scion of Kenya’s one-time Chief Secretary Simon
Nyachae was handed an embarrassing humiliation on the floor of the National
Assembly, despite senators having given him a vote of confidence in their
earlier poll. Jubilee was not keen on allocating even one slot to the Kisii
region.