Kenya face New Zealand in the main Cup quarters of the Dubai Sevens at 10:44am.  Kenya breezed past Uganda 29-14 in their last Pool ‘A’ match to add onto an earlier win over Canada despite a heavy loss to continental nemesis South Africa. Shujaa beat Canada 29-15 in their opener but succumbed to a crashing 48-5 defeat to South Africa. In the match against Uganda, Kenya’s try scorers were Dennis Ombachi, Eden Agero, Dan Sikuta, Oscar Ayodi and Brian Tanga with Sammy Oliech adding two conversions. Uganda’s tries were scored by Phillip Wokorach and Solomon Okia. Kenya led 19-14 at the interval. In the tournament opener, the Canadians settled first and led courtesy of a try by Nathan Hirayama for a 5-0 lead. Shujaa regrouped and dominated possession which saw Sammy Oliech score a try and convert for a 7-5 lead. Stand-in skipper, Oscar Ayodi, scored the second try to extended Kenya’s lead to 12-5 with talismanic Collins Injera scoring the third just before the interval to give Shujaa a 19-5 lead at the breather. On resumption, Ombachi got Shujaa’s fourth before a brilliant interplay between Agero and Injera saw the later land his brace to take Shujaa 29-5 up. Canada rallied strongly in the closing minute of the half with Pat Kay scoring a brace to close out the scoring. Kenya were, however, brought crashing down to earth in their second match, losing 48-5 to champions South Africa. Kenya started well with Jeff Olouch scoring at the corner for an early 5-0 lead. Three costly errors by Innocent Simiyu’s charges saw them surrendering the lead in quick succession with speedstar Seabelo Senatla scoring twice and playmaker Cecil Afrika touching down once with and converting for a 17-5 lead at the break. Shujaa collapsed in the second half with Senatla added his third of the match after the restart, played in by Afrika to go over the chalk, South Africa pulling further away, the score 22-5 in their favour. Branco du Preez put Shujaa under more pressure, beating the Kenyan defenders to land a converted try for a 29-5 Blitzbok’s lead before Justin Geduld scored moments after his entry into the game. The conversion sailed through for 36-5 and it was Kwagga Smith’s turn to add to Shujaa’s misery at 41-5 which soon ended with Rosco Speckman’s converted try to close out the game.