Years after Independence, it became clear that, as a nation, we had lost the way. We were not going in the right direction. It became obvious that we had lost the way because we had forgotten where we had come from, where we were and where we wanted to go. To start going in the right way, our leaders said there were three problems we had to address to get on the right track. These were poverty, disease and ignorance. Interestingly, these three problems would be given priority attention, not just in Kenya but also in Uganda, Tanzania and almost in all British colonies. And although we tried very hard to solve these problems, we did not succeed because, behind these challenges, others remained unattended to and unsolved. This is despite the fact that their solution was the prerequisite for solving the three national problems. It, therefore, can be said that the rain started beating us when our three key problems stayed unresolved. Today, the reason why hopes of solving our problems remain dim is not because we have no desire to address them but because we must first solve the underlying ones, which are avoided and unmentioned as if they are taboo. When conditional problems are denied national priority — it almost seems as if they are not mentioned — they will disappear into thin air. When President Uhuru Kenyatta gave his inaugural address, he announced national needs but avoided enumerating the problems that cause them. But can problems that are not mentioned be solved or diseases cured without mention? My belief is we should publicly announce our diseases for us to treat them. It has not been publicly stated, but it looks as if there is a policy of not publicly announcing these problems. Some people might even believe that if we do not mention our problems the world will think we don’t have them and thus, we will look more developed than we actually are. President Uhuru said to consolidate his legacy, he must achieve “the Big Four” national needs — food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare for all — to make progress and attain development. However, Uhuru will not succeed if his government will fail to solve five national problems that must be tackled before we achieve any progress and development. In order of priority, the first problem that President Uhuru must address to build his legacy must be to redefine leadership. If and when a leader limps, the flock will not reach pastures: The country will not develop if it becomes a den of thieves, where leaders are free to rob and steal. President Uhuru must have no friendship with known thieves. Under his leadership, no leader, business people or community should be allowed to claim, “it is their turn to eat” at the expense of other people. If it is any community or ethnic elite’s time to eat, other people will starve and the country plundered to abject poverty. Irrespective of who wins elections, all who pay taxes must eat. It is also clear that where leaders have the freedom and impunity to rob and steal, corruption becomes a national creed that allows politicians and the rich to capture the state, which they turn it into a tool of thieving. Without declaring war against corruption, there will be no money to achieve his Big Four. To protect leaders’ loot, we have heard some individuals from the Kikuyu community are urging President Uhuru to use dictatorship, which will not only destroy this country but also his legacy. No dictator has a worthwhile or positive legacy. Even development that has been attributed to dictators such as Adolf Hitler has ended up in the rubbish heap of history. Ultimately, President Uhuru cannot secure national unity without tackling negative ethnicity as firmly as possible. Though negative ethnicity gives leaders benefits such as power, its harms like genocide far outweigh attractions. Worse, negative ethnicity cannot be fought quietly. The fight against the ideology of genocide must be public for it to be won. Uhuru should also publicly promise to root out economic apartheid that Kenya inherited from the colonialists.  His legacy will be shaped more by the five problems he did not mention than the Big Four he undertook to achieve.    