Kenya Airways has dismissed more than 140 engineers and technicians for participating in a go-slow demanding an increase in salary, a move likely to disrupt its operations. The staff members, who include base maintenance, line maintenance, technical workshops, cabin and in-flight entertainment, multi-crew cooperation and technical assistants were sacked via an email yesterday. Speaking to the Star on phone, one of the affected technicians confirmed receiving a dismissal letter on his email from the firm on Wednesday evening after stagging a go-slow since Tuesday to push for salary increases. They want a pay rise of between Sh340,000 to Sh1.2 million. During a media briefing earlier in the day at the Pride Centre, the technical team said the airline is holding their pay rise which was approved and released by the board in December last year. ''We sent a letter to the CEO and did an email to him but he neglected us. The reason for us being here is disturbing. We have been trying to engage management on payment issues," an engineer said. Speaking separately to the Star, the communication team at KQ confirmed sacking of the employees but declined to give further information, saying that a comprehensive statement will be issued later. The airline, which recently went through a successful restructuring that saw its share gain 80 per cent on Nairobi Securities Exchange on Wednesday, has had a fair share of labour issues in the past one month. Early last month, Employment and Labour Relations court ordered the airline to reinstate its former finance chief Alex Mbugua following unlawful termination in January last year. KQ however sent the officer on a compulsory leave when he reported to work the following day. The sacking of technicians who oversee major activities is a huge blow to the airline that has witnessed a huge talent flight in recent times, with at least 100 pilots exiting in just one year.  "During the period under review, we witnessed the highest number of pilot exit in the last five years of 55 and a cumulative exit of 89 for the last two years to close at 434 pilots against a requirement of 444. At least 32 captains and 19 first officers also left,'' KQ said in its report.  This is not the first time technicians at KQ are downing tools to demand for better pay. In September this year, the airline lost tens of engineers to Middle East airlines who offered them better packages  