When
you create a government of National Unity you are trying to solve deep-seated
issues on the periphery. The sharing of power should not be just about the
executive. Taking
NASA leader Raila Odinga and his co-principals into government doesn’t seek to
tackle the real issues the opposition has been championing for a long time – it
is a cosmetic approach to very serious matters that require national dialogue.
Somehow, they will feel that they are included but what happens to their
supporters? I
heard supporters threatened to set his house ablaze if Raila failed to attend
the Jacaranda rally. What will happen next? Sharing
positions in government as a way of establishing some stability will partly
work, but not as part of a lasting solution to the critical and delicate
problems that face the country. Raila,
in particular, faces a dilemma on how he will deal with millions of his
supporters who are now weary and disillusioned. The
supporters may turn against Raila, if he accepts to join the government, because
they will look at his actions as those of one whose
interest only concerned a job. It
is important, however, to note that Raila has a constituency that he commands
and has been pushing towards the direction of reforms and justice. Justice
and reforms are not necessarily achieved by being in government. As the
opposition, Raila can still raise issues of national concern and demand their
solution without necessarily seeking a pie of government. Another
elephant in the room is the fact that Raila will be subservient to Uhuru, and,
by extension, to Ruto too. Remember Ruto has presidential ambitions and the
entry of Raila may be viewed as a spoiler in the game. It
would be interesting to see how Raila will be answerable to Ruto in such a
government crafted to address peripheral issues. The government may turn out to
be a playground where Ruto and Raila will be battling for power and influence
as they prepare for 2022. I
know they may try to play around with the semantics, to call it Chief Minister
or Super Minister, but I know the Constitution is clear – that to trigger
changes in the structure of government, one needs a referendum. That
is never done at hotels or at State House. A national referendum is owned by
the people and decided by the very people of Kenya.  The writer is a political analyst