Daniel Ndambuki, popularly known as Churchill, is bringing African comedians to one stage in Nairobi. The second edition of the Laugh Festival is set to go down tonight at the KICC, and will be graced by Uganda's Salvador, Nigeria's Basketmouth, Rwanda's Arthur Nkusi,Uganda's Cotilda, our very own Jasper Murume and MCA Tricky, among others. Talking exclusively to Word Is, the comedians revealed how much of a passion they have for the industry. Murume said "Last year I was in the audience watching these guys. I wasn't able to convince the management to put me in the list but this time round, its going down," Salvador said "I cancelled three shows to be here. I can't say no to Churchill. He is a brother and a friend. It's going to be a great line-up. We also have many women coming through," he said. Salvador left a high-paying job as an engineer to become a comedian "I was an engineer, earning about Sh130,000 but I auditioned for comedy and made it to the top two. The other guy won. In my heart, I felt this is what I was supposed to do. It was challenging, a challenge that i didn't have in my engineering world. It was something that I could do effortlessly. My passion for comedy started way before my interest in engineering. I resigned and it became better and better." Arthur on the other hand admitted that he's cracked a couple of jokes that weren't funny. "It happens. The journey you take is not a 100 per cent. When a joke backfires on you, just improvise another one for it to work.Talk to someone in the audience.The way you bring back yourself also matters. When that happens, people feel pity on you.When you bring back yourself, it matters. And what does it take to be an international comedian? "There are a lot of funny people out there. You have to be blessed. It starts with one show and it grows.Being humble to the people you meet also matters. Watch other people's performances." Talking of President Yoweri Museveni Salvador said, "You need to be relevant with the people you are stepping on stage to. Learn something new about them. For example, in Uganda, we are consistent. One guy, with or without elections, we know he's the same guy. Why get another one. For what? But we have left him to God. Hahahaaaa, we learnt the hard way,hahahaaaa." A word for the up coming comedians: "Most people who want to start have the wrong motivation. You should join comedy, not because Churchill is doing it, but because you love it.Trust me you will go far. I'm speaking from experience. In Uganda, there are a lot of comedians like that."