A Thika court has freed parents of the 10-month-old girl who was found with 14 needles lodged in her body. Senior Resident Magistrate Grace Omodho released Isaac Gichure and his wife Jacinta Ndunge on a Sh300,000 bond with one surety of similar amount. This was after the couple's application to be accorded lenient bond terms by the court. Read: We can’t harm our child, say parents of girl with needles Justice Omodho warned the two that the court shall withdraw the bond terms should they abscond any court hearing.  A scan image showing the 14 needles that were lodged in 10-month-old Jane Wairimu's body/ BY JOHN KAMAU The two have been accused of inserting the needles in the minor’s body causing her bodily harm and putting her health at risk. When they appeared before the court to take a plea, Gichura pleaded with the court to free him to enable him to cater for his other three children since he is the sole breadwinner. The father of four who works at a Quarry in Kiganjo area told the court that his other children are suffering at home since there’s no one to look after them. “I swear before God that I came to learn that my child had needles inside her body when doctors conducted an X-ray. There’s no way I can or take part in harming my own child. I plead with this court to release me so that I can feed my other kids,” Gichura said. More on this: Thika parents deny inserting sewing needles into their baby's body His wife Ndunge too asked the court to release her so that she can go and breastfeed her baby. “I’m aggrieved that people are thinking that I harmed my daughter. If I didn’t want her I wouldn’t have raised her to this point. Please release me so that I can go and breastfeed her,” she pleaded. On December 19, the court ordered a mental test for Ndunge to establish whether she was fit to continue with the proceedings. The exercise conducted at Thika Level Five Hospital revealed that the mother of three is fit to proceed with the hearing as she was able to express herself well. The results of the checkup indicated that she has no disorder of speech, mood, perception, thought and cognition. The two were unable to raise the bond and are still in police custody. Their case will come up for hearing on February 12 next year before Thika Children’s court. The infant was rescued by Thika Children’s officer Rebecca Kariuki and is living at Macheo Children’s Home together with her two siblings. Also read; Puzzle as Thika doctors remove 13 needles from infant's body    Click here for the latest political news