Leaders and activists in Garissa have now raised concern over failure by the county executive to meet the third gender rule in the appointment of chief officers. There has been a hot debate about gender imbalance in the appointments, with some even moving to court to block the appointments. Out of 22 appointees, only four are women. It was the same case in Wajir county, where out of the 25, only four are women. Although Governor Ali Korane and his Wajir counterpart Mohamed Abdi have blamed clans for failing to nominate women for such positions, activists and opinion leaders say the back stops with the governor. Korane said that it was unacceptable for women to be locked out of leadership positions ‘simply because they are women’ despite being qualified. In a bid to justify why he did not meet the two third gender rule, Abdi on Tuesday said It is unfortunate to see that majority of people do not accept women to represent their interests irrespective of their qualifications or expertise. But Speaking to the star on phone, WomanKind director Abdullahi Mohamed, said that it was unfortunate to see women still being judged by their gender and not by capabilities. “The governors cannot continue pretending to play to public gallery when they very well know that the back stops with them and that they have a constitutional requirement that they are supposed to meet,” said Abdullahi. “They need to take political responsibilities and this entails going out of their way and appointing women provided they meet the requirements and are qualified,” he added. Kenya Livestock Marketing Council vice chair Dubat Amey, said that it was high time leadership take lead and ensure they move a step and appoint suitable candidates irrespective of their gender. “They have the powers under the Constitution to appoint women candidates in various positions. There are several women candidates who have the qualifications. Some of them have better qualifications than men,” Amey said. The Somali communities are patriarchal society with deep- rooted cultural practices. They are yet to fully embrace women leadership. And when the county stake is shared, more often that not, the communities sideline women, not because they have any issues with them, but simply because they are not yet ready to be led by a woman.            