The government will not reverse the new textbooks distribution policy, despite complaints from distributors. Education CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday said the policy is the best formula to ensure all public schools attain the 1:1 textbook to student ratio. “For the avoidance of doubt, get it from me. We will not go back on the new textbooks policy. If anyone is unhappy, I will be delighted to meet you in court,” Matiang’i said. He spoke during the launch of the Kenya Literature Bureau ISO certification ceremony at KLB Centre, Nairobi. The CS recently said students in public schools will from January next year receive text books directly from the government. Each student will receive six textbooks of the core subjects on January 9 when schools reopen for first term. The policy change is aimed at locking out cartels who collude with school heads to distribute textbooks at inflated prices, some of which are not approved by the ministry. Previously, schools were at liberty to buy books from distributors of their choice using government capitation. Primary school pupils were allocated Sh761 per year under the model while their secondary school counterparts received Sh4,792 annually. Matiang’i said some schools are yet to achieve the 1:1 text book to student ratio. The government has spent over Sh300 billion since the inception of Free Primary Education in 2003 and the actualisation of subsidised secondary education programme in 2008. “Many of these schools achieved the 1:1 ratio a long time ago. What is the explanation for a different situation in other schools other than corruption, theft and collusion between those middlemen and principals who are involved?” Matiang’i said the new policy is good news to publishers who will now rarely have dead stock as the government will buy books directly from them. “Make sure that we have the books ready for schools by the time Form Ones are reporting on January 8,” Matiang’i said. The text book policy will coincide with the launch of the new curriculum which will replace the 32-year old 8-4-4 system. Matiang’i said the curriculum launch is also unstoppable and dismissed as a waste of time claims that more consultations need to be done. He said all education stakeholders were consulted over the past one year before the decision to rollout the system next year was arrived at. “The process has been consultative, as consultative as it can be,” Matiang’i said.        