Potholes on more than 15 roads in the city centre and estates have been patched since City Hall introduced technology to repair roads three weeks ago. The county government has leased a pothole patching machine and contracted experts from Avery East Africa Limited to do repairs. The roads, which have either been neglected or washed away by frequent floods, have deep and large potholes. Others have bee rendered impassible. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane said patching has been done on Muindi Mbingu, Koinange, Wabera Street, Hailie Selassie, Moi Avenue and Tom Mboya streets. “Moi Avenue from Hilton Hotel to bomb last roundabout to Kencom stage, Limuru Road and roads around city hall and city hall annex have been patched,” Dagane said. AEA project manager Mike Davies, said yesterday nearly all roads within the CBD will be repaired before the end of the year. The executive said the county is currently leasing the machine from AEA but will acquired its own next year. “The machine will be on lease as the county procures two machines in this year's financial year. We have already effected this in our supplementary budget,” he said. During the testing of the leased machine on December 5, Dagane said the county would spend Sh100 million to two machines. “These machines will reduce our road maintenance cost by 50 per cent, and the work will be much faster,” Dagane said. He said the machines will help the county carry out routine road maintenance faster and cheaper. Previous regimes have blamed insufficient funds for the pathetic state of the roads. He said the machine can patch a pothole in three to five minutes Repair of pavements and roads barriers on Moi Avenue, Tom Mboya most and most roads in the downtown has also started. Residents have in the recent past held demonstrations, with business people, especially those in Eastleigh, threatening not to pay taxes due to bad state of the roads. Early this month, the county said it needs Sh29.6 billion to rehabilitate roads in the city and make them passable. Roads in the city are repaired by the county government, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya National Highways Authority.