Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has told off critics of Education CS Fred Matiang’i, terming his reforms as best for the country. Tolgos said Elgeyo Marakwet leaders are in full support of Matiang’i’s reforms in the education sector. He said schools in the county have performed well in national exams despite the stringent examination rules. “We in Elgeyo Marakwet don’t blame Matiang’i for reforming the education sector because even after the stringent exam rules, we became the second best county in KCPE in 2016 and our mean grade improved,” Tolgos said. Read: Mwingi Equity bank manager denies bias in 'Wings to Fly' program Speaking in Iten during the award of Equity Bank’s Wings to Fly scholarships to KCPE candidates in Iten on Thursday, Tolgos told teachers and students to work hard to achieve better grades and stop blaming the CS. His remarks come at a time when a section of opposition MPs led by Lugari legislator Ayub Savula threatened that they will not approve the re-appointment of Matiang’i as education CS when President Uhuru Kenyatta reconstitutes his cabinet. The lawmakers including Caleb Amisi [Saboti] and Mark Ogolla [Uriri] said on Wednesday that NASA MPs may impeach Mattiang’i over what they termed as hurried reforms in the education sector and the massive failure of candidates in national exams. The county chief said the county will hold a celebration to be graced by Deputy President William Ruto after Sing’ore Girls’ High School emerged top in 2017 KCSE. Equity Bank has reduced the number of scholarship beneficiaries in the county over what the institution termed as ‘tough economic times.’ The bank reduced the number of needy KCPE candidates for the Wings to Fly programme from 25 candidates in 2016 to 16 learners in 2017. Equity bank’s Iten branch manager Albert Kiprop said 348 candidates applied for the secondary school full scholarships but only 16, urging other corporates and state agencies to offer scholarships to the 232 unsuccessful candidates. “We had a reduction in the number of beneficiaries down from 25 last year to 16 slots this year because we are operating in tough economic times for the bank. We would have wished to sponsor more candidates but this is a global economic challenge,” Kiprop said.   Click here for latest political news 