Rearing chicken for sale in Kiambu has long been a loss-making venture. So much so that many farmers gave up on it altogether.   But this was largely due to farmers keeping to old ways that leave their stock hard to manage and vulnerable to disease. Mary Wariuki, a farmer from Red Hill area in Limuru constituency said research helped her avoid going down the same road. “I have friends who stopped rearing chicken and are now rearing pigs, cattle and others opened shops because of the losses they were making,” she said. “Lack of information led them to do all this. Some say it’s better to buy eggs and chicken meat than to rear commercial chicken.” Luckily for Wariuki, she discovered modern methods of farming practised in Europe.   “It is because I love rearing chicken that I researched and consulted until I learnt a new and modern method of poultry farming,” Wariuki said. She went ahead and imported chicken layer cages from Norway, which helped her rear 4,500 chicken in an 83-by-34-foot poultry house.   HOW IT WORKS Each cage houses five chickens, making it easy to feed, water, collect droppings and pick eggs. “It takes me less than five minutes to feed all 4,500 chickens. Feeds are poured in a big basin, which has rollers fitted on the feeding trough, then you pull it to all cages. As it rolls, the feeds get in the feeding troughs and the birds eat,” Wariuki explained. She said the triangular cages help the chicken remain clean since they don’t release droppings on each other. The droppings fall straight to the floor of the cages and are swept out easily. The farmer said the chickens drink water by sucking special water taps fitted inside. “The chicken layer cages are economical, efficient and clean. They spare you from having to pay wages for many workers, keep your birds clean and save a lot of space,” she said. “You cannot rear more than 1,000 birds in an open poultry house. They will kill each other, disturb you while you feed them and at times you end up on stepping on eggs,” she said. “On the other hand, you cannot control any disease whenever there is a breakout because they will be overcrowded.” However, with the modern cages, a farmer walks in front of all the birds and easily detects which bird is feeling unwell. It is vaccinated and treated without the others contracting the disease. “You see all your birds every time you are feeding them and collecting eggs because you will pass in front of them. This happens more than four times in a day,” she said. Some of the diseases that affect the chicken include new castle and typhoid. “We normally call the veterinary to come and treat them. During the time chicken are undergoing vaccination or are on medication, we do not sell eggs,” Wariuki said.   COSTLY FEEDS The farmer said the challenge they experience is the high prices of chicken feeds. She said this frustrates farmers more than ignorance on how to succeed in the business. “If the government intervenes, this country will never import eggs. Instead, it would earn foreign exchange as farmers would be busy exporting eggs and meat,” Wariuki said. She urged the government to consider ensuring the prices have gone down to help farmers make profits, and to encourage upcoming poultry farmers. Wariuki said each time the government and traders import eggs from neighbouring countries and fill them in their businesses stocks, farmers, especially upcoming ones, are demoralised since they wonder where they will sell their produce. “If farmers were motivated with lowering of feeds prices, available and affordable veterinary services, together with trainings on the farming, then this country will never import eggs,” she said. Wariuki and her son Ian said when they imported the layer cages at a cost of Sh50,000, a lot of farmers have been visiting them and after learning how it works, they urge them to order for them. “For the last one year, we have been ordering the layer cages for different people. We assemble them and train them on how it works. They have never complained. Egg market is always available in big towns,” she said. Ian, who helps his mother at home, said they normally collect 1,500 trays of eggs every day, which they sell in Westlands, Kangemi and Nairobi. “If people were trained well on this farming, I’m sure egg production can be two times the amount it is in the country. It is a farming that does not require big land. But apart from the poultry house, one is required to have a store where you can keep your eggs and the feeds, and somewhere you can place manure as you wait to dispose it,” he said. Ian said they normally sell the manure to farmers after spreading some in their farms, where they practise subsistence farming. “We do not grow food crops for sale, but for home use. We normally add the manure from our poultry and the food crops do very well,” he said.   SMALL LAND, BIG PROFIT Agriculturalist Kamau Kihoro said lack of research by Kenyan farmers has made them be left behind by the changing world of farming. Kihoro encouraged farmers to consult agriculturalists on the current methods of farming, since agribusiness has helped a lot farmers make a lot of profit from small portions of land. “Be it livestock farming, fish farming or even poultry farming, everything is changing. The change comes where one wants to realise profit. You must consult,” he said. Speaking at Limuru town, Kihoro said Kenya has good, fertile soil and a weather that is conducive to different types of farming. “The problem could be lack of capital, but otherwise, the bigger part of this country can do well in farming,” he said. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi urged residents not to lose hope on farming, but consult since farming nowadays is creating jobs. "It depends on how dedicated one is. You are supposed to do research and consult with a lot of passion. Farming is creating employment since once you start creating profits, the next thing you do is try to raise it. And at long last, you will find yourself very far, employing workers in your farm," the MP said.