Migori county has set aside Sh80 million for bursaries to help 700 bright and needy students, especially orphans, in January. The programme targets students who scored at least 350 marks in the KCPE exam. Governor Okoth Obado said they money will be ready when schools re-open for first term. Speaking to the Star in his office in Migori town on Wednesday, Obado said the programme was started three years ago. It aims to improve literacy and to reduce poverty. “Currently, we have 600 needy and orphaned students. The number will go up when we add others. This is one of my legacies for the people of Migori. I’m targeting orphans from poor backgrounds,” Obado said. Read more : Sh100 million set aside for needy students in Nyeri The governor said educating children is one of the best ways to reduce poverty. He said earlier beneficiaries are doing well in secondary school. “The scholarship covers college education. I believe in next few years we shall have doctors, engineers, pilots, teachers and journalists from this group. I will be happy,” Obado said. At least five students are selected from each of the 40 wards in the county. Sh20 million is used for shopping. Obado said the department of Education, Youth and Sports has begun selecting beneficiaries after the KCPE examination results were released. Read more : KPC unveils Sh14.5 million scholarship for needy students living with disability Education director Lazarus Ogutu echoed the governor’s sentiments. He said vetting committees are being constituted in the wards to select students with the help of members of the public who know the children’s backgrounds. “The forms are at the ward offices. We urge needy students who scored at least 350 marks, preferably orphans, to apply,” Ogutu said. According to the Kenya Interagency Rapid Assessment in 2015, Migori is ranked 13 out of 47 counties on school attendance of students of 15-18 years. It registered 79.6 per cent, which is higher compared to the national attendance at 70.1 per cent. Click here for more political news