This year has had a record breaking release of blockbusters starring only the best of Hollywood. Here are the 10 must-see films of 2017.   10. Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle is a modern remake of one of the beloved classic, Jumanji. The film will be released on December 20, starring the dynamic duo Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and Kevin Hart.   9. The Foreigner introduces us to Jackie Chan’s dark side. Since we’ve known Jackie Chan, he’s been the loveable, goofy Kung Fu master. But in this film, he acts as a bereaved father in search of justice for his murdered daughter.   8. Baywatch is the film remake of the 90s hit TV show of the same name. The film revolves the around the lives of the lifeguards at Baywatch, who play detective when a dead body washes up on their beach.   7. Spider-Man: Homecoming is the first film in the franchise starring Tom Hollard as Peter Parker/Spider-Man. The film maintains a simple storyline and has the added advantage of having Tony Stark/Ironman as the beloved father figure to Spider-Man.   6. Going in Style is an oldie goodie. And by oldie I mean it stars the legendary actors Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine and Alan Arkin as three pensioners who decide to rob a bank that tricked them out of their pensions.   5. The Fate of the Furious is the 8th installment of the blockbuster franchise The Fast and the Furious series. This film sees the beloved Dom (Vin Diesel) going rogue to help out a wanted terrorist by the name of Cipher (Charlize Theron).   4. The Hitman’s Bodyguard is a funny action sequence film starring Ryan Reynold and Samuel L Jackson. The two talented comedians provide humorous quips throughout the film.   3. Beauty and the Beast is a timeless classic that has been retold many times over the years. But this wonderful musical does justice to the love story, with Emma Watson acting as the living embodiment of Belle.   2. Girl’s Trip is another all-female lead film that was a remarkable success. The film is a good time and gave us the breakout star of 2017, Tiffany Haddish.   1. Wonder Woman is undoubtedly the best film of the year. The film, which beat out all blockbusters on the box office, is directed by a woman and features a predominately female cast representing the powerful Amazonians.