You can feel it in the air, you can see it on storefronts, malls, and even buildings under construction, glittery decorations and twinkling lights — Christmas is here. Well, technically not quite yet for a couple of days, but the starting gun for the festive season has already gone off, and that’s as good.    Yes, it is that time for thanksgiving, merrymaking, and last-minute dashes to buy gifts that had slipped your mind. It’s a time of frustration, trying to find accommodation for a family vacation at an overbooked holiday destination. It is that season again full of energy, hangovers, joy, and exhaustion. And this time of the year, we look forward to the coming year with unfounded hope for a better future. A year we expect, fingers crossed, will be more prosperous than the year that is coming to an end in just over a week. Unfounded hope, I say, because as you well know, that’s if you’re old enough, not that much turns out exactly as hoped.  That dream job you’re starting in the coming year could turn out to be an altogether different sort of dream; the kind you wake from with a start, while screaming.  That new relationship you’re about to embark on, after you dump your current girlfriend over Christmas, might not make it all the way to Valentine’s. That said, it’s Christmas, the one season that makes all things seem possible in the future. That time of year it is expected of you to have a good time, no matter how bad your year was, and how much worse you know it could get in the coming year. Time to eat, drink and spend (moderately, of course). But more importantly, it is that one time we have the best opportunity, the most free time, to renew our bonds with those close to us.  You see, often we forget that this expectation to give over the Christmas holidays doesn’t necessarily mean giving gifts. The giving of time, love and attention is far more valuable than money spent. Whether it’s playing monopoly with your wife and children, gathering around a mbuzi over a flame with relatives, or raising a glass with friends at your local bar, this holiday’s spirit is about caring, sharing and remembering what matters most in life. But even as we focus on those nearest and dearest to us, let us not forget those who could most benefit from this season of giving. I’m talking about those without families, or living on the street, or struggling to feed themselves and their children. Why not take a few hours to pack a box of food, clothes, and toys and take it to a children’s orphanage, spend some time with the kids there? It will take you even less time to donate to a charity that helps the homeless. Giving your time and showing kindness over Christmas goes a long way for those most in need. This Christmas, don’t just drink, eat and spend extravagantly. Share and care as well, and let your heart glow with the spirit of generosity such that it lights up the lives of others. And while you’re at it, see whether you could stretch out this season’s kindness to last all year long.