The Sabaot Land Defence Force, an outlawed militant group in Mt Elgon that committed horrific crimes in 2005-08, is regrouping and terrorising residents. They are on revenge missions targetting informers who helped put them behind bars. It had been subdued by state security agencies and many members convicted after they tortured, raped and killed civilians. The group’s top leaders were killed in a security operation by Kenyan soldiers. Bungoma county commissioners Joshua Chepcheng on Monday said ex-convicts are carrying out attacks and are responsible for a series of killings. He dismissed claims the killings are politically instigated. The revelation comes after one person was killed in Masaek village and several others were injured at the weekend. The death toll has reached 30 since April, when residents started blaming former SLDF ex-convicts for the gruesome murders. Chepcheng said most of more than 200 SLDF fighters jailed in 2007-08 for 10-year terms had served their sentence and are free. They are on a revenge mission. “Even those who have a few days to their release have started calling and warning that they are coming for those who ‘conspired’ with the authorities to have them jailed,” he said. Chepcheng spoke to the press in his office in Bungoma. He said security agencies are compiling data about SLDF fighters who were jailed, to help them in their crackdown. Chepcheng said most of those killed are said to have provided information to police during the 2007-08 crackdown. An ex-convict who was released last Thursday carried out the weekend killing, he said. On Sunday, Senator Moses Wetang’ula urged the state to deploy KDF soldiers to help restore order. He said residents suffer. Leaders also fear for their lives. Cheptais MCA Jane Chebet yesterday said many Mt Elgon MCAs now live in Bungoma town because of fear. Many residents have also fled to Kimilili and Chwele towns, she said. “We want this problem fixed so the economy of Mt Elgon and Bungoma can return to normal,” Chebet said. Chepcheng said the ex-convicts have established many links and after every attack they flee and hide in Uganda through the Mt Elgon Forest. He urged residents to closely monitor those released from prison — who show no signs of having reformed — and report them to security agencies. Police have intensified patrols.  Chepcheng said the region’s rugged terrain impedes their work. He urged the National Security Council to arm Kenya Police Reservists so they can fight the militants. For the government to end the perennial killings in Mt Elgon, police reservists must have guns, Chepcheng said.“The KPR know these criminals very well,” he said. Chepcheng urged politicians to stop inciting the public by saying the killings are caused by some leaders. He told them to let police do their jobs. The Bungoma county assembly has formed an 11-member committee to investigate the militant group and report its findings.