Conflicting information has emerged over arrest of NASA coalition strategist David Ndii. While the coalition affirmed Ndii was arrested on Sunday night in Kwale over his role in formation of the People's Assembly, police refuted the claims terming them mere propaganda. Raila Odinga's personal Assistant Dennis Onyango said Ndii was arrested by Flying Squad officers at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale. Onyango on his Facebook page said Ndii had been taken to Diani Police Station. According to him Ndii's arrest unfolded after his appointment by NASA coalition to steer People's Assembly. NASA CEO Norman Magaya said the officers did not disclose why they arrested the renowned economist but insisted the arrest was as a result of his involvement in the formation of the assembly. Magaya said teams on the grounds have also established that Ndii was not being detained at Diani police as had been indicated. Our efforts to trace where he is being held have been futile but we are trying all we can to establish the truth," he said. Magaya said Ndii had earlier attended a family wedding at the Coast before checking in at the hotel. "We are wondering why police should trail somebody on his private business and make such arrests without any communication," Magaya said. He said party leaders, NASA principal Raila Odinga and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho have been briefed and are handling the issue. "Our party leader has asked Ndii not to cooperate with the CIDs until Governors Joho and Amason Kingi of Kilifi get in touch with him," he added. But  Msambweni OCPD Joseph Chebusit said that they have no records of anyone by the name David Ndii thus the claims are untrue.  "I am at the station right now and I asked the officers on duty but there is no one of that name," he said. Kwale is among other 12 counties who have adopted the People's Assembly despite a High Court's order barring County Assemblies from passing or implementing the NASA-sponsored motions. Kitui High Court issued the order pending determination of a case filled by a lobby group, Counties Development Group.      