Jubilee losers in the August 8 election are angling for plum jobs in lucrative state corporations as the terms of current holders expire. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 2015 batch of appointees to top positions in government agencies will complete their three-year terms in April next year. Others who successfully won political seats are set to relinquish their positions at various boards, opening a window for dozens of hopefuls. Traditionally, political losers from the ruling party and opposition defectors have been rewarded with such positions. Related content : Leaders met Uhuru for jobs, cash and immunity, say NASA Western legislators The Star has established that among the coveted vacancies being intensely canvassed are the chairmen of Kenya Airports Authority and the Kenya Pipeline Company. Former Cabinet minister Marsden Madoka’s three-year tenure as KPA chairman ends in April 2018 as does that of John Ngumi of Kenya Pipeline. The two multi-billion parastatals are highly strategic and will likely be filled by close allies of Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto. Others include the Anti-Money Laundering Advisory Board currently chaired by Ken Ogeto, the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority Board whose chairman, Samuel Poghisio, was elected West Pokot Senator. The post of chairman of the Coast Water Services Board fell vacant after Granton Samboja was elected governor of Taita Taveta. His election is among many being challenged in court. The board chairman positions that are due to fall vacant include Jomo Kenyatta Foundation (Walter Nyambati), Kenyatta International Convention Centre (Omingo Magara), Privatisation Commission (Henry Obwocha) and Sports Kenya (Fred Muteti). Also read : Uhuru promised me a job if I withdrew petition - Munya Others are National Oil Corporation of Kenya (Daniel Wamahiu), Sony Sugar Company (Ambrose Weda), Kenya Animal Genetics Resources (Geoffrey Kamau), Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute (Wabacha James), Micro and Small Enterprises Authority (Charles Waithaka), Coast Development Authority (Suleiman Kamolleh), Kenya Industrial Research and Development Institute (Nathan Psiwa), National Cereals and Produce Board (Geoffrey King’ang’i), and the National Campaign Against Drug Abuse Authority Board. There are also many board members who have not been replaced since they resigned to seek elective seats in the August election. They include Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala who was a member of the Nzoia Sugar Company Board. Click here for the latest political news 