First came the leaked video of National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga in a Father Christmas hat on Christmas Eve drinking a toast to the “journey to Canaan”. Baba in “Baba Krismasi” mode and clearly sloshed was something that not even Jubilee’s keenest propagandists could invent. The JP strategists wasted no time and the less than two-minute video has been seen by Kenyans around the world, including on British paper the Daily Mail’s website. He slurred his words and tottered on his feet as he proposed the toast. Jubilee supporters could barely believe the sight and sounds. The National Super Alliance’s threats about swearing-in Raila and taking the secession route had never looked more unlikely. This is how the Daily Mail reported the leak of the video: “Leaked footage of drunk Kenyan opposition leader wearing a Santa hat and slurring his words sparks outrage among his supporters Supporters of Raila Odinga argue the video is entirely innocuous  It shows him drunkenly make a toast surrounded by cheering supporters  The release of the video comes amid continuing political deadlock in Kenya Mr Odinga earlier said his country was falling into ‘state-sponsored thuggery’”. Among Jubilee supporters who viewed the video, Raila’s inebriation was completely exaggerated. He was plastered, seeing double and under the table. He was stoned, lush and totally under the influence. And then on Tuesday, in Western Kenya, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa was forced to flee only three minutes after arriving at the Maragoli Cultural Festival in Mbale Grounds, Vihiga. He had just settled on the podium when an angry youth shouted, “We do not want Jubilee here! Wamalwa must go before the cultural event begins!” Stones were thrown and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Central Organisation of Trade Unions boss Francis Atwoli hurriedly escorted the shocked CS to his car. Wamalwa’s bodyguards and other police officers drew their guns and shot in the air and the crowd scattered. These scenes too were put on YouTube and viewed by many Kenyans, most of them on their phones. Afterwards, Wamalwa spoke bitterly of Mudavadi and questioned his leadership skills: “To me it is regrettable and it also demonstrates regrettably a total and disastrous failure in leadership on the part of Mudavadi, who has demonstrated that he has failed even to rise to the occasion of being a Luhya leader. He has failed to show leadership credentials of being a national leader if he could fail to contain his people,” he said. But more was still to come in the standoff Jubilee and NASA. On Thursday after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who returned from a 10-week stay in Germany, visited the rural home of his confidant former Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze finally spoke on Raila’s swearing-in ceremony. As the Star and other papers reported on Friday, “President Uhuru Kenyatta has no option but to allow for dialogue on electoral injustices if NASA is to abandon plans to swear-in Raila Odinga, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said yesterday. “Kalonzo said foreign envoys in Kenya are also calling for dialogue.” Kalonzo had a stark message for UhuRuto, in which he spoke of himself in the third person. “If they do not want dialogue to ensure there will be no more manipulation and rigging of elections, then Kalonzo and Raila will be sworn in,” he said. He hit out at the President for insisting that since he had been sworn in, there is no need for dialogue on elections.  The President told the opposition to wait until 2022 to dialogue with William Ruto, who will be seeking the presidency. “We cannot postpone the issues of 2017. This has to be resolved in 2018,” Kalonzo said. He said the August 8 election was rigged and the country is divided. “How can we move forward as a country with this kind of hatred?” Kalonzo asked. And then the Kamba leaders accompanying Kalonzo on his visit to condole Nyenze’s widow Edith and her family introduced a new dimension to NASA’s own internal politics. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, her Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana and Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said there is no illusion that Kalonzo will be NASA presidential candidate in 2022. This is a dimension that could scuttle the People’s President swearing-in by the People’s Assembly project, or expose it as a cruel joke and desperate bluff. Towards week’s end, Jubilee supporters were asking themselves whether Raila really has a game plan on the swearing-in. He says he has 14 out of the 47 counties but does not indicate what the threshold to make him the legitimate People’s President is. For weeks on end, the bet inside Jubilee was that the veteran lawyer in Kalonzo would not contemplate the People’s President swearing-in. But he seems to have done so in very clear and lucid terms, except for the sentiments of the Kamba delegation accompanying him to Nyenze’s Kyondoni home. Ngilu, Kibwana and Wambua were effectively preaching the Nyenze political philosophy articulated in the lead-up to the selection of the NASA leader and Presidential candidate. “There will be no NASA without Kalonzo as the Presidential flagbearer,” Nyenze said often in the search for the unified candidate. Kibwana emphatically said Raila promised to support Kalonzo in 2022. The plot thickens.