It was a perforce brimming with confidence one that very much pleased  coach Paul Put as Harambee Stars began their Cecafa Senior challenge  cup with a straightforward 2-0 victory over a very tough Rwanda side. Two goals from KPL top scorer Masoud Juma from the spot in the 27th minute and another, already a contender fro goal of  the tourney from AFC Leopards Duncan Otieno put the Amavubi to the sword at a lush  and revamped Bukhungu Stadium in kakamega. A largely inexperienced side  with only skipper Musa Mohammed, and his defensive counterpart Joakins Atudo, George ‘Black Berry’ Odhimabo and Patilla Omoto having played at this regional showpiece previuosly. But it did not show as every player who started the game earned his stripes with a majestic performance that Rwanda could  not leave with. Kenya rattled the Rwanda defence with Black Berry forcing Ndayishimiye Eric to come off his line to pick a through ball from Whyvonne Isuza that the speedy striker was determined to reach to. Rwanda decided to come off their shell and go for the match and slowly grew into the tie.  Biramahire Abedy was their main threat but he was well handled by the Kenyan defence that seemed well drilled and prepared for this occasion. Wesley Onguso and Dennis Shikayi were providing serious threat down either flank and one cross just missed the head of Juma with twenty minutes on the clock. Seven minutes later Soter Kayumba fouled Atudo in the area giving the referee the leverage to hand him a yellow card and Stars a penalty that Masoud dispatched past the Rwandan goalkeeper, Ndayishimi. A lead that was deserved only added the fuel for Stars to light up the tie. With eight minutes to the break, AFC Leopards teammates Isuza and Otineo combined with the latter letting fly from outside the box, beating the experienced Ndayishime. It was a well deserved lead that  had the fans crying out for more. After the break, Stars brought on Kepha Aswani for Masoud with Samuel Onyango giving up his place to Ernest Wendo to lock up the midfield. Prior to that, Rwanda were reduced to 10 men in the 55th minute after Kayumba was handed a second yellow. Despite Aswani missing a chance 10 minutes to full time and Matasi making a brilliant save to deny Yanick Mukunzi, no goal was forthcoming and Stars were worth the applause at full time.