Political debenture collectors have been wounded by Okech Kendo’s column in the Star of Wednesday, December 13, cautioning the President against investing in latter-day defectors. Egos have been deflated; self-esteem bruised. "The debt collectors are anxious; they are irritable; they are agitated; and they are running out of time, and perhaps luck as well. They realise political debt collection is not easy, especially when the promise was not a binding contract." These lines are crafted with a surgeon’s precision and capture a motility of entitlement these defectors have been feeling from the day they hit the campaign trail to drum up support for Jubilee. Most did not expect things would turn out like they have in the last two weeks. They have become agitated and they choked with guilt on reading the think piece. A defector from Homa Bay county took time off his schedule to mobilise an attack through his untethered online bozos on Okech. The article drops no names. It fascinates how a former ODM MP could read the exposition and see himself as a target. He even organised a weekend retreat in Kisumu to strategise on "bringing down" the author of this "damaging" article. "Our boss is irked at what is in the article; we have instructions to hit back and strike where it hurts. Our strategy meeting is in Kisumu," one of the bozos said. A factor that stands out in the article is how much hope these recreants have lost and it no longer is business as usual from their weekly marrow hunting trips to State House and the Deputy President's office. "Some of the defectors are broke. Some are on the verge of bankruptcy, after spending millions of shillings in campaigns for positions, which they lost," reads the article. This explains why there is so much irritation and rankling among those who jumped ship, expecting huge portfolios after a stupendous failure in their political careers Busia county had two high profile defectors who failed to win their seats after jumping ship to campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta. The former MP and gubernatorial aspirants are among those who have been shuttling between State House and the Deputy President’s office agitating for their pound of flesh. The only way out of bankruptcy and looming career dearth would assuredly be a lucrative designation in government, which is uncertain.  Okech reminds President Uhuru Kenyatta the defectors are many, but the positions few. It defies logic how every single one of these political hangers-on are pushing for appointments with so much exigency, listening to nothing but the music playing in their paunches. It is this predicament the writer sees and equips, "The lobbying for these positions presents a dilemma for the Executive: Will the appointments be about rewarding hawkish defectors or 'ethnic inclusion'?" The defectors have not come to terms with the reality that they were merely statistics and pawns in the larger power play. Accordingly, their reaction – going for the columnist’s jugular – is a rash one, only meant to insulate them from the harsh reality of possible betrayal and treachery of power politics. The ruffles caused by this article is testimony of how much the defectors have been praying for political mediocrity to win over meritocracy, when finally Cabinet appointments are made. The column had a message, with a large national concern: "The presidency has a chance to hunt for men and women who have a distinguished record of performance from the excluded areas. There are known public administrators and managers, without political baggage, who can help bridge ethnic relations. This regime needs this more than rewarding divisive, hawkish sycophants."  The writer is a freelance journalist.