Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has castigated area MCAs behind the creation of the People's Assembly saying they don't know their roles as leaders. He particularly took issue with Mwavumbo MCA Joseph Ndeme for introducing the motion at the county assembly. Kwale, despite being represented by a Jubilee governor, passed the motion which was proposed by Raila Odinga's National Super Alliance. NASA wants to use the assemblies on its quest to "end electoral justice in Kenya". The coalition has maintained it doesn't recognise Uhuru Kenyatta's presidency. Over 10 counties including Mombasa, Kilifi, Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kisumu, Makueni, Migori, Siaya, and Vihiga have passed the motions for the creation of the assemblies through which Raila will be sworn-in. For Kwale, the assembly idea was approved after NASA outnumbered their Jubilee counterparts in the vote. The latter walked out. Read: Acrimony as Kwale passes People’s Assembly motion Mvurya says the county representatives were wrong to approve the legislation saying there are more pressing matters to be dealt with in the county. "You create another assembly which is unlawful yet the issues of Kwale have not been dealt with. Was that the reason you were elected?" he asked on Saturday. He further warned MCAs that they will not force him to approve any policy "as his executive powers are unique." Mvurya, during an event at Kinango, told the MCAs not to disturb themselves with some policies he will not implement. "Executive powers of the governor are not shared. I will not implement a policy which will mislead Kwale," he said over the people's assembly motion. Also read: Nairobi refuses to give time to debate People's Assembly motion He further told politicians, who he say have been attacking him, that they will not succeed in the desire for his downfall. "Those teaching me my job, where did they work in the first term? I will not allow to be interfered with during this second term. Let's work and serve people." Mvurya criticised the MCAs who are using his name to gain publicity to boost their prospects for higher seats during the 2022 general election. "If your grandfather failed to beat me in the previous elections, who are you to defeat me?" he said. The governor warned NASA allied MCAs who he accused of going to gossip about him in neighboring counties. He also derided Kilifi governor Amason Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho over the push for secession of the Coast region. "They want the Coast region to secede yet they can't even manage their counties...You want secession yet one of your child is selling a kidney to go to school. Do not interfere with our issues." "Each county was given the mandate by the constitution to control its own affairs. The time to have a sultan at coast is over. Devolution has changed all that," the Kwale county boss said. Related: Mombasa rejects 'despot' Uhuru, passes People's Assembly motion Click here for the latest political news    