“There will be no election on October 26.” This was the refrain, or if you like, the “theme song” by NASA, which intrigued many, myself included, mainly because they claimed that they will achieve it within the law. This theme song was particularly and repeatedly articulated by one Norman Magaya, the NASA CEO. I was inclined to ignore him until Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo, a man I respect for his methodical legal mind, entered the debate and confirmed that “it can, and will be done, and within the law.” But if there is one thing that halted Kenya’s slide into a constitutional crisis, then into contrived political chaos, it was the IEBC’s conduct of a fresh Presidential election within the 60 days stipulated by the Constitution and as ordered by the Supreme Court. This was the one event NASA did its best to stop, failing which, to withdraw from, failing which, to disrupt, failing which, to condemn, failing which, to defy and ultimately mount a rebellion against!   ‘TYRANNY OF BRAINS’ The genesis of NASA bravado and legal strategy appears to have been pegged on a faulty and warped interpretation of the Supreme Court ruling in Raila Odinga’s Presidential petition of 2013. In that ruling, the Supreme Court, in response to a request from the Attorney General acting as a friend of the court, explained that a fresh election built on the foundations of an invalidated election would, in their opinion, only involve those who participated in the original election and no fresh nominations are necessary. The court then stated at paragraph 290 (quote): “Suppose, however, that the candidates, or a candidate who took part in the original election, dies or abandons the electoral quest (emphasis mine) before the scheduled date: then the provisions of Article 138( 1 ) (b) would become applicable, with fresh nominations ensuing.” There are several points to note from this paragraph, quoted verbatim. One, there is a typo; they meant provisions of Article 138 ( 8 ) (b). There is no sub-section (b) in  Article 138 ( 8 ) which simply says; “If only one candidate for President is nominated, that candidate shall be declared elected”. The second point to note is the heading of Article 138 ( 8 ) which says; “A Presidential election shall be cancelled and a new one held (that is what NASA wants) if;- ((b) a candidate for election as President or deputy President dies on or before the scheduled election date; or Apart from the legal fact that the “by the way” opinion of the Supreme Court as sought by a ‘friend of the Court’ is NOT binding on other parties, the alleged rewriting of Article 138 ( 8 ) (b) of our constitution by the Supreme Court in 2013, by inserting the words “or abandons the electoral quest” to Article 138( 8 ) (b) is ridiculous and expressly untenable! Someone, deliberately nominated for that purpose, would always be available to “abandon the electoral quest”, leading to politically instigated cancellation of Presidential elections repeatedly. It is also patently foolish to equate, in law, the consequences of death to that of abandonment of an electoral quest. If this grotesque proposition by Dr Willy Mutunga’s Supreme Court in 2013 is where NASA hang on to their marbles to have the Presidential election cancelled under their “Tyranny of Brains” mantra, then more power to them! But if you don’t know yet, we are simply in the midst of a vicious power struggle, the rest is mere detail. It’s not about you; you are merely a pawn in the game and it is naïve to expect the two combatants to dialogue before they are clear on where each of them stands in their war. Uhuru Kenyatta has a formidable ethnic formation, incumbency and the law on his side. He will NOT move until he is sworn-in as President. Raila Odinga and his ethnic formation are faced with not just one electoral loss in 2017, but possibly three consecutive losses in 2022 and 2027. He knows this and he is therefore desperate and dangerous. He is mobilising half the country into a rebellion against majority rule, democracy and the rule of law.    The writer is a consultant on Public Affairs and Policy