The government should employprofessional child psychologists in schools, an NGO has said. The human rights organisation Equality Now says this will help children, who are vulnerable to sexual and gender-based violence from their guardians, have a confidant to share their traumatic experiences without fear of facing any repercussions. “Professional child psychologists will immediately raise a red flag when they notice that a child is always withdrawn. This is because children even fear opening up to their teachers because they will do nothing but stigmatise them,” Africa director of Faiza Mohamed (pictured) said on Friday during an interview with the Star. Faiza  said the few schools that have guidance and counseling teachers are not well trained to identify to children who are victims of sexual and gender-based violence. “First we need to have safe spaces in schools managed by a trusted person especially a woman. She will be able to protect the girl and at the same time ensure that justice is served. Safe spaces do not only involve structures but the environment where the child is.” Mohamed said. This comes a day after a forum at KICC where children gave harrowing tales at the hands of their caregivers who rape them in return for  caring for them. The perpetrators were mostly step fathers and uncles. The children from nine schools in Nairobi and Busia counties also said their biological mothers did nothing to help them. Their only mistake was being a child with no father.  “When I told mother what was happening to me, she accused me of wanting to have sex with my stepfather,” a 17- year -old girl told a panel during the forum on child protection. The children said it made them feel helpless to go through such cruel treatment. As enshrined in the Constitution, the state must ensure that children are protected and that they also put in place structures on how children who are victims of defilement can be able to report such abuses safely without being victimised. Click here for latest political news