Ukwala Supermarket is off the hook after the High court in Eldoret set aside an award of Sh200,000 it was to pay to a man falsely accused of stealing two chewing gums.  Justice Kanyi Kimondo said the award of general damages to Wilson Mwangi was founded on wrong principles and made without proper legal foundation. "The evidence was insufficient and in Kenya, punitive or exemplary damages are available where there is oppressive, arbitrary or unconstitutional action by the servants of the government," the judge said in the December 7 decision. Mwangi was charged in 2002 after he was accused of stealing two pieces of chewing gum.  He was detained at Eldoret police station for three days where he claimed the officers manhandled him and caused him injuries.  He also claimed to have contracted dermatitis. However, after about nine months, and having heard three prosecution witnesses, the court found that the accused had no case to answer and was eventually acquitted.  Mwangi later sought for general and aggravated damages against Ukwala and the Attorney General for wrongful arrest, detention and, malicious prosecution.  He was subsequently awarded Sh 200,000 by the trial magistrate Beatrice Mosiria.  Ukwala was to pay Sh140,000 while the Attorney General was liable for Sh60,000.  Being aggrieved by that decision, Ukwala appealed on grounds that Mwangi's acquittal did not prove malice and that the damages awarded were exorbitant.  It was after this that Justice Kimondo found Mwangi did not table sufficient evidence to justify an award of general or exemplary damages.  He had told the court he was held in a store at the supermarket and that he "wanted to be paid for mental torture". But according to the judge, the claimant did not elaborate on the nature of the torture. "I also find that Mwangi did not lead any evidence that he was manhandled or suffered injuries at the hands of the police. He did not lead evidence on the skin disease, dermatitis that he said he contracted in police cells. That is why this appeal will have to succeed."   Click here for latest political news 