ARE political leaders in the Western
region jostling for visibility? Well, sources tell Corridors that a second-term
governor with ambitions for higher office has recently been talking to a top
Jubilee leader about 2022. That seems to have made some rivals jittery and
intensify plans to command the ground. Not a weekend passes without the leaders
attending a wedding or a funeral here and there. Maybe that explains why Water
CS Eugene Wamalwa has been on a roll
this Christmas, albeit dogged by missteps. After being unceremoniously ejected
from the Maragoli festival on Boxing Day, the unrelenting CS was not so lucky
hours later. He arrived uninvited at an informal gathering of professionals in
Bumula constituency, which prompted other local leaders to troop in. But his
closing remarks were rudely interrupted by a NASA governor when he criticized Musalia Mudavadi and told his audience
to review their support for Raila Odinga. 
He was forced to leave hurriedly but the undeterred CS was back in the same
constituency the next day, raising the question: What is he up to? ***** CONCERN has emerged among NASA's
top leadership that they might lose a chunk of their followers if they don’t
live up to the promise of swearing-in Raila
Odinga. Our source says that though the masses will not join the ruling
Jubilee Party, there is fear they could gravitate towards or form another third
force and threaten the political ambitions of the current leadership.  This
as Raila's own future looks far from clear. ***** SO why should a governor
complain about ethnic exclusion when he has devolved the same to his county?
Well, this is the question some professionals are asking of some three
governors in Nyanza. In public, they criticize the national government for
ethnic discrimination, yet in their own administrations, employment is based on
what one did during their election campaigns. A source close to the governors
described the hiring procedures to Corridors as “savage”. Is the Public Service
Commission, led by Margaret Kobia,
aware of this maladministration and HR mess? Will the counties ever hire
genuine professionals? ***** THE police top brass is
struggling to manage their juniors — believed to be liberal — who are determined
to expose the dirty linen in the service. Most of the junior officers have
registered pseudo social media accounts and are don't shy from attacking their
bosses. A top cop told Corridors that initiatives to stop the officers from
joining social media have failed, despite sending out many orders.  A
little bird in the force tells Corridors that part of the main issues which have
seen junior officers turn on their bosses with guns include mistreatment and
intimidation. Related: Corridors of Power      