ELGEYO
MARAKWET/SECOND GENERATION BREW Tolgos vows to regulate liquor licensing
over return of illicit brew to bars BY STEPHEN RUTTO   Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos yesterday said he will personally issue liquor licences to stop a return of second generation alcohol. He has ordered that licensing certificates have a provision for the governor's signature. He said second generation alcohol could return to local bars during the festive season. A police crackdown on illicit liquor eliminated such alcohol in 2015. Tolgos said police laxity could pave way for a return. “I will not
sign any liquor license if locals say the bar owner does not deserve the license
and also if establish that they sell second generation liquor,” Tolgos said. He spoke during a meeting with 200 alcohol
addicts who were rehabilitated by the county in partnership with local NGOs. ,
Tolgos said rehabilitees have been trained to engage in alternative economic
activities. He said the
reformed brewers will be facilitated for bench-making s outside the county to
learn alternative livelihoods. The county
chief said he will not shy away from the fight against the fight against
illicit brews, noting the fight almost cost him a second term. “I was
accused of lacking a tangible agenda in my first term after fighting illicit
brews. I was told that I was only focusing on liquor when other governors are
spearheading meaningful development projects but I will continue with this
fight,” Tolgos said. He said
rehabilitees are engaged in commercial farming after several training sessions
since 2014. Ruth Kemboi,
a reformed changaa brewer from Metkei, Keiyo South said she quit the illegal
practice to venture into farming. “I had some
bushes in my farm where I could hide illicit brews. I often fought with the
area chief whenever he came for a crackdown but I have changed,” she said. The rehabilitated
alcoholics claimed that men are flooding bars following the return of illicit
brews called Simba from Uganda. ENDS//