As Parliament votes today to endorse or reject nominees to EALA, one man seems, surprisingly, to be enjoying favour from both sides of the political divide. This is the feisty NASA CEO Norman Magaya. Sources whispered to Corridors that within NASA, Magaya enjoys unparalleled support from the four affiliate parties. An avid debater and a strong defender of opposition chief Raila Odinga, Magaya is seen as the face of the coalition’s future leadership. Although he has previously been a target of the state, even Jubilee honchos are said to be impressed by his credentials. He is seen as a young man who rose through the ranks without political patronage. He is also well read. Magaya is said to be set to graduate with a PhD in law next year. Talk of coming face to face with graft cartels that have been conspiring with top public servants to loot millions of shillings of public money in Nairobi county. Word has it that a new executive at City Hall has come face to face with corruption cartels at the county quarters, barely a month since he was sworn in. Our mole has told Corridors the soft-spoken and industrious executive received a phone call from a highly connected wheeler dealer, asking him to approve payments for nonexistent goods delivered to his department. It is said the executive declined and sought to know more about the supply. After a few minutes, he received another phone call from a private number. The executive was overheard telling one of city officials,”The person told me to either sign or they come for my neck.” A top Jubilee operative in the city was left stranded in Nairobi West after the crowd he intended to hire and ferry to the Kasarani Stadium for Jamhuri Day celebrations stood their ground and declined Sh500 pay each. Word has it the man who had three buses on standby ready to ferry people to the celebrations could not believe the masses he considered penniless refused Sh500 without any explanation. It is said when matters became tough, he made phone calls ‘above’ to narrate his encounter for immediate intervention, but no help was granted. Our mole has told Corridors the Jubilee operative was overheard responding, “It would be hard to try in Kibera, Mathare, Kangemi or Kawangware since I will be risking my buses.” Were the Head of State Commendations given out pegged on any known achievements? Corridors has been told some NASA MPs were heard yesterday in Parliament laughing off the list which they said was crafted in ‘a bedroom’ somewhere within the city. The lawmakers jokingly wondered how the super witness – Dennis Ngendi- and Kwale man – Lengo Nzombe - who caned NASA leader Raila Odinga missed on the list of ‘outstanding’ Kenyans who caught President Uhuru Kenyatta’s eye for a state commendation.