Organizers of Vihiga cultural festival have apologized to Water CS Eugene Wamalwa over Tuesday’s incident where he was heckled and chased from the event at in Mbale. A letter addressed to the CS on Friday by three officials expressed regret over the incident that occurred during the 38th edition of the Annual Logooli Cultural Festival at Municipal Ground in Vihiga County. [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos Read: Nzoia leaders differ on CS Wamalwa’s ejection from fest The incident happened in the full glare of ANC leader and NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi who escorted Wamalwa to his car amid jeers from the crowed.  “You have been a regular visitor to this annual event. However, it so happened that this time round the crowd was unexpectedly hostile to you. “We wish to apologise to you and assure you that neither the leadership of the society nor its patron Hon Musalia Mudavadi had anything to do with the hostile reception you got from that irate crowd. In fact the patron pleaded for calm to no avail,” reads part of the letter. The letter is signed by Chairman Bernard Chahilu, Secretary Hezekiah Kisali and Treasurer Jotham Savatia. The officials said the group is non-political even as reports indicated the hostility towards Wamalwa was politically motivated because of his links with the Jubilee administration. “We sincerely hope this regrettable incident will not affect the otherwise very good working relationship between our sister communities – the Bukusu and the Logooli,” they said. Read: What did you gain? Moses Kuria asks Mudavadi after CS Wamalwa drama On Wednesday, two Jubilee MPs and a section of MCAs from Bungoma gave Mudavadi a 24 hour ultimatum to apologise to the Bukusu community or risk being ‘barred’ from setting foot in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia Counties.  Sirisia MP John Waluke and his Bumula counterpart Mwambu Mabonga accused Mudavadi of being behind the heckling incident.  They said the incident was planned to portray Wamalwa as a rejected leader in Western. However, Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba said on Thursday the CS wanted to provoke the Maragoli community to gain political mileage. Read: Waluke demands Mudavadi apology for 'stupidity' against CS Wamalwa  Click here for the latest political stories      