Leaders and defending champions KCB, Kabras and Homeboyz put their unbeaten records on the line when the Kenya Cup league enters match day four today. KCB face hosts Nakuru while Homeboyz and Kabras encounter debutants Kisii and Mombasa RFC respectively. The champions have 15 points from three successive bonus point wins, their massive +108 difference separating them from second-placed Menengai Cream Homeboyz, who also boast of 15 points and a +28 points difference. Nakuru started their campaign with a 45-15 win over Resolution Kisii before succumbing to two heavy defeats, 19-46 to SportPesa Quins and 6-30 to Kabras Sugar. The hosts will be out to stem the tide against a side looking for its second win in Nakuru since 2009. Homeboyz are in equally fine form and have a fairly straightforward fixture at the Gusii Stadium. They started their campaign with a 41-39 win over Quins, following this up with 29-21 and 39-21 against Nondescripts and Impala respectively while hosts Kisii, in their maiden season in the Kenyan top flight have lost their two matches so far. Kisii’s coach, Nick Abok, remains confident that his charges will find their ground and grab their first win of the season. “We have trained well for the last two weeks and hopefully, we will get our first win,” said Abok. Kisii welcomes captain George Sagini, Alvin Marube and Oscar Othonji. “We have worked on the mistakes we made against KCB especially in line outs and conditioning. In the KCB game, they completely dominated us after 60 minutes,” added Abok.  The coach appealed to local fans to turn up and cheer the team. Third-placed Kabras Sugar make the 843km road trip to play Regional Logistics CFS Mombasa at the Mombasa Sports Club with Resolution Impala Saracens looking to bounce back from last weekend’s 21-39 loss to Homeboyz when they host Nondescripts. SportPesa Quins have bounced from their opening 39-41 loss to Homeboyz, posting two massive back-to-back wins against Nakuru (46-19) and Mwamba (48-16). They play ‘away’ to Blak Blad at the RFUEA grounds while winless sides Strathmore Leos and Mwamba square it out at Madaraka.