Hassan Joho has ordered Coast General Hospital to discharge 49 people whose bill of Sh2.1 million he wrote off on Tuesday. The Mombasa Governor decided to allow the individuals to join their families for New Year festivities after he learnt many of them could not leave because of inability to clear bills. "The move is inline with his Christmas message of spreading love and care to all, especially those that are less privileged in society," read a stement from his office. Joho toured the facility on Boxing Day and spent time with patients at their wards. He said his administration will continue equipping the hospital to ensure everybody has access to qualify health care.  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho with a woman and her child at Coast General Hospital, December 26, 2017. /TWITTER/HASSAN JOHO The health department gets the lion's share of budgetary allocations every financial year, an indication of how important health is to his administration. Last month at least 10,000 KCPE candidates benefited from Joho's food donations, whose aim was to prevent disruptions. County bosses who have visited hospitals and the less fortunate over the holidays include Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Stephen Sang (Nandi). Kingi visited Malindi sub-county hospital and promised better services. He is planning to upgrade the hospital to ease congestion and improve services from 2018. Read: Kingi visits Malindi hospital patients, promises upgrade  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho visits patients at Coast General Hospital on Boxing Day, December 26, 2017. /TWITTER/HASSAN JOHO  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho visits patients at Coast General Hospital on Boxing Day, December 26, 2017. /TWITTER/HASSAN JOHO Mandago and Sang separately said the next year will be better after the grueling political season. They promised to look into challenges that orphans, the elderly are other less fortunate people face. More on this: Mandago and Sang pledge hard work, prosperity in 2018 Click here for the latest political news