Former Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph once described Kenyans as peculiar. Whether it was a good thing to be called peculiar or not we cannot say, as it can have a boomerang effect. But if you were to ask me, I would say our politics makes us peculiar. We spend years going through a vicious cycle. Weeks after an election, we start strategising and positioning ourselves for the next one, even when it is years away. If we think about this deeply, we are actually wasting time with politics of the future. This time should be spent on focusing on developing the nation to ensure that all of us get to a position where we get the best services from the taxes that we pay. There is an ongoing debate in Central Kenya, which is not only immature but also unfortunate, given the place we are as a country. This debate has to do with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession in Central and who should be Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate in 2022. From the ongoing talk, you would be forgiven for thinking the President has said he has retired from active politics or that he will do so after he finishes his term in 2022.  One wonders where the President has gone as these leaders debate the future of a region in a country that he leads. It was unfortunate to see some leaders calling for the dismissal of a Cabinet Secretary from the region and others coming to the defence of the CS. These are clear signs of a divided house that needs to get its act together before it burns itself. Mt Kenya leaders must realise that this is not the time to start bickering about appointments or thinking of 2022 while the President has a clear agenda that he outlined during his inauguration. Instead of this undue sibling rivalry, Mt Kenya leaders should be supporting the President in his calls for uniting the country as well as developing it to ensure that every Kenyan feels part and parcel of the transformation brought about by the Jubilee administration. Where we are as a country, what matters the most to all Kenyans is getting our country back on track, transforming the economy and uniting our nation. This is not the time to discuss succession, especially since we have barely just got out of the last election cycle. Leaders, and this is not limited to Mt Kenya, should focus on what they told the electorate they would do instead of politicking. Leave the endless politicking to those who do not care and whom Kenyans have denied the opportunity to be leaders. There is a lot of work to be done before we think of going back to politics, which has taken a lot of our time and slowed down our economy. The public is seeking economic empowerment as well as better services. These will not be realised when leaders are focused on politics. Today, Mt Kenya residents are looking up to their leaders to build better schools, roads and hospitals. Farmers are seeking markets as the region heavily relies on agriculture. Mt Kenya leaders should be seeking how to revive the coffee industry, for instance. Kenya was once the number one producer in Africa and yet in 2016, Ethiopia produced almost four times as much coffee as we produced. The leaders should be at the forefront in lobbying the government for more resources so residents enjoy better health service, smoother roads as well as clean water. The time will come for us to start discussing politics as well as how the region will work with Ruto when he becomes President after Uhuru.  That time is not now and those focused on it should know that the people are watching and they will be ruthless come election time.     Political and communications consultant  @MachelWaikenda  