15 people escaped death by a whisker after the bus they were travelling in crushed into a lorry on Nairobi-Nyeri Highway, near Blue Post Hotel in Thika on Wednesday evening. However, seven of them, including the driver of the bus sustained serious injuries and were rushed to Thika Level Five Hospital for emergency treatment.  Others had minor injuries and suffered shock and were too taken to the hospital for check up and counseling. The bus that belongs to UMOWA Sacco and plies Nairobi-Matuu-Ekalakala route was headed to Ekalakala from Nairobi. The accident caused a traffic gridlock in Thika town and along  the Nairobi-Nyeri Highway that took police five hours to decongest. Eyewitnesses said that the accident was caused by a breakdown vehicle that was towing another lorry that had crashed on the same spot. “We blame the driver of the breakdown vehicle for this accident. He was pulling the lorry carelessly without placing safety signs on the road knowing very well that this is a highway. He should have atleast placed twigs on the road to warn other road users,” Philip Kimemia a boda boda rider said. He said that on noticing the abrupt rush by the breakdown, the lorry’s driver slowed instantly making the bus that was behind it and moving at high speed ram into it from behind. The driver of the breakdown vehicle however on realizing that he had caused an accident, he sped off towards Murang’a. “We heard a loud thud and upon looking we realized it was a fatal accident. We rushed to the scene and started moving the passengers out the bus. The driver had been trapped and a power saw had to be used to cut through the wreckage so as to save him,” Philip Wamichwe, another boda boda rider said. However some eyewitnesses blamed the bus driver saying that it has become their habit to drive at a high speed. “These buses are known for their speed. The driver would have slowed when he saw the lorry in front of him slowing,” One of the passengers who escaped unhurt told the star that the bus was evading traffic congestion at Thika-Garissa road. He said that the driver decided to escape the traffic gridlock that extends from Gatitu Junction to Makongeni area by passing through Delmonte Farm and join the Garissa highway at Kivulini area. “We suddenly heard a loud bang and the next thing I realized was that the bus was reversing towards the river. Again I heard those who were in the front seats screaming and calling for help,” the passenger said. Some of the passengers said that were it not for the traffic snarl up along the Thika-Garissa road the accident would not have occurred. “Something must be done to end the traffic congestion,” said Regina Muli, one of the passengers. In June 2015 two Moi Primary School pupils perished at the same spot when their school van got into an accident that involved 12 vehicles.  