The last five years have seen economic activities drop to the lowest level with the Gross Domestic Product recording a 4.9 per cent dip. The drop is down from the earlier forecast of 5.5 per cent growth by the World Bank. According to the 16th edition of the Kenya Economic Update released by the bank yesterday, the decline is attributed to drought that largely hindered national agricultural output, private sector access to credit and election-related uncertainties. The drought dampened household consumption, private sector access to credit constricted economic activities with small and medium enterprises feeling the pinch more and the election-related uncertainty weakening private sector activity. On the sub-sector level, the growth deceleration was mainly driven by developments in the agriculture sector. The financial sector expanded by the lowest pace of 4.8 per cent in six years, reflecting the tough environment facing banks, down from 7.7 per cent between 2010 and 2016, while the transport and storage, and ICT sub-sectors recorded a robust growth of 9.9 per cent and 10.4 per cent respectively year on year. Public sector construction remained buoyant, in contrast to private sector construction growing at 7.9 per cent year on year while the manufacturing sector was sluggish, recording only 2.6 per cent year on year with the World Bank describing its growth as a level too low and weak to make a dent to unemployment or absorb the yearly increase in the labour market. However, the report noted that there is room for the economy to grow in the medium-term outlook of upto 5.5 per cent in 2018 and 5.9 per cent in 2019. “Compared to the global growth of 6.3 per cent and the regional growth of 2.6 per cent, our performance is pretty good and needs to be appreciated in the wake of economic shocks that frustrated much better results,” Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge said. Speaking to the Star, World Bank economist Allan Dennis noted that achieving the projected medium term outlook will be reliant on implementation of supportive reforms such as fiscal consolidation, reviving credit growth to the private sector and scaling up efforts to beef up the agriculture sector. “Fiscal consolidation could be supported through policies to improve the efficiency of public investment, incentivize the private sector to participate in capital projects to reduce the burden on the public sector, and enhance domestic revenue mobilization and streamline recurrent expenditures,” Dennis noted.  