President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday urged the county governments to automate their services to boost revenue collection and ease operations. He said the counties that have adopted technology have realised an upward trend in revenue performance. Uhuru cited Nairobi, which he said will pay its workers their January salaries from its own internally collected revenue without relying on the national exchequer. “For the first time, since devolution started, Nairobi will pay its workers before Christmas from its own collection because it has automated services,” he said during the launch of a Sh1.3 billion data centre at City Hall. The city has automated 58 out of its 128 revenue streams. The Nairobi data centre will support a call centre, CCTV control room and internet connectivity. “ICT will help the county workers and residents do their businesses with a lot of ease. It will also help us actualise the plans we have for this county,” Uhuru said. Many counties rely on the cash disbursed by the Treasury to pay salaries and meet other operations. Governor Mike Sonko said the biggest challenge he has faced since he took over is delays by the National Treasury to disburse funds. He said despite revenues having improved, the county still faces financial problems, as the revenue collected has to be wired to the Central Bank before the county is authorised by the Controller of Budget to withdraw it. “I’m calling for your intervention, Mr President. We’ve fought hard to ensure we grow our revenue and we also don’t spend the money at source. But the Treasury is taking too long to release this money once we wire it to the Central Bank,” the county chief said. Uhuru, who was accompanies by DP William Ruto, also urged governors to collaborate with his administration to develop the counties and transform lives. He reiterated that his administration is committed to devolution, adding that the national government has already partnered with City Hall and would soon rollout several life-changing projects. “In January, we’ll issue 50,000 title deeds so people feel they own property. We want to improve infrastructure. In five years, nobody will believe this is the Nairobi they’ve known for all these years,” Uhuru said.