After 100 days in office Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui is yet to make good the promises he made during his campaigns. When he was campaigning for the seat, he outlined priority areas he would address in his first 100 days. But many of the pledges still remain just that – promises. The governor had said he would revive the potato and pyrethrum sectors in Nakuru.  He had also promised to work with industry players to create storage services for potato farmers. This was to cushion farmers from the erratic price problems and improve their profitability. These were some of the many promises Kinyanjui made in his manifesto. He had also said he would weed out corruption. The county lost Sh1 billion in revenue in the 2015-16 financial year. Residents are still waiting to see how the governor will end corruption and address other issues, including the huge wage bill. However, the administration has made some progress, including establishing a task force to address the ailing health industry. On agriculture, Kinyanjui has partnered with 18 pyrethrum growing counties in an effort to revive the industry.  He will host governors and other stakeholders before the end of the year to plan the way forward.  Kinyanjui has also distributed seedlings to farmers in the subcounties. The devolved government has begun rehabilitating the Gioto dumpsite, which was established more than 40 years ago. "For long, the dumpsite has been an eyesore to users of the Nakuru-Kabarak road. It is now a danger to drivers," Kinyanjui had said Efforts to transfer the dumpsite during former Governor Kinuthia Mbugua's administration hit a snag due to lack of investors. Some other achievements Kinyanjui has made in his first 100 days are the formation of a the Youth ministry. He has also formed the Health Task Force to point out challenges facing the sector. He has also upgraded the water supply network in county, introduced an open-door policy for county officials so that residents can be served freely and promptly Kinyanjui has also launched the School Sanitation Programme to be financed by the county government, the Rotary Club, among others. It will cost Sh37million. He has also launched the Nakuru County Public and Sanitation Act. The Act is to ensure the towns have proper sanitation facilities. 
       