NTSA has suspended the issuance of restricted service licences after several fatal accidents during the Christmas period. The permits will no longer be issued as transporters have contradicted terms by plying unusual routes, director general Francis Mejja said. "A number of crashes have been noted among operators using short term licences due to unfamiliar routes of travel," Mejja said in a statement on Wednesday. "To this end, and pursuant to Section 29 of the NTSA Act, the body notifies all public service vehicle operators and the public that issuance of RSLs has been suspended until further notice." Three people, including a police officer, died in Kericho county on Christmas Day in a crash involving a Githurai 44 sacco bus from Nairobi. The bus, registration KBV 952N, was on its way to Kisumu when the driver crashed into an oncoming truck. He had been trying to evade the police roadblock erected 2.5 kms from Kericho town.  Matatu Owners Association chairman Simeon Kimutai, who was one of the first to respond, blamed him, noting the route was unfamiliar. Related: Sachangwan accident claims 60, travellers stuck for hours Mejja denied that the authority had permitted operations by a matatu involved in an accident in Matuu that left eight people dead. He noted their team moved to different areas after attacks by residents. "The NTSA team had relocated from the scene of the accident to another at 2.30 pm. They were later called to assist in the rescue mission after the crash," he said. "We are alarmed that locals attacked the team as they helped police with the rescue. We are also aware of calls from unscrupulous people for attacks on our officers on roads. We will not condone such attacks and those found culpable will face the wrath of the law." Click here for the latest political stories            In a statement on Wednesday, the permits will no longer be issued as matatu operators have been using the RSLs to ferry fare paying passengers contrary to the terms of the licence.       