Kisii MPs have accused ODM of treating other coalition affiliate parties as junior partners. Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache) and Ben Momanyi (Borabu) said Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya are being shortchanged by ODM in House leadership positions. “We shall reconsider and re-think our position in NASA if ODM continues to mistreat us. We are equal partners in the coalition and we should be treated as such," Onyonka said. "NASA has been fighting for fairness and equity in this country and they should practice it,” he added. More on this: Discord in NASA as ODM elbows out ANC for PAC Onyonka has expressed dissatisfaction with the election of ODM's Simba Arati as chair of the committee on implementation. Momanyi said ODM should have evenly distributed slots in the Parliamentary Service Commission. “ODM should take two because of their numeric strength and Wiper the remaining one slot. What ODM is doing is wrong and totally unacceptable,” he said. The Wiper MP added: “Jubilee and NASA are treating the Kisii community unfairly despite both parties enjoying support in the region." An ODM official who asked not to be quoted however said Ford Kenya is not a parliamentary party and should not complain. “In the last parliamentary, they were controlling almost everything because they were threatening us with pulling out of CORD. ODM is taking it’s rightful share in parliamentary leadership,” said the official. The official further said some MPs cannot be trusted with leadership positions. MPs from Eastern, Western and Coast have also complained of being shortchanged by ODM in the distribution of house leadership committees. Shortly after selections for the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee, Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo accused cartels of ensuring he did not win the chairman post. The position was taken by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi who got 15 votes, while Amollo got none. More on this: Otiende Amollo blames cartels for losing PAC post EALA SELECTIONS Onyonka slammed both the Opposition and the ruling Jubilee for giving Kisii and Nyamira counties a raw deal in East Africa Legislative Assembly elections. "Jubilee shortchanged Charles Nyachae in the EALA elections. As a community, we are not happy with the way we are being treated. For the first time in 15 years, we are not represented in the regional assembly. We should think of having our own party,” the MP said. Momanyi also criticised Jubilee for failing to vote for Nyachae. “We asked Dorice Donya to step down for Nyachae but he lost. We feel shortchanged,” he said. But North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko is happy with the way Jubilee party has distributed house leadership positions. "My only issue is with the EALA elections where Nyachae lost out even after we were told to front one candidate but he did not garner enough votes. However, you cannot blame Jubilee because all the NASA positions were taken by ODM and Wiper,” said the Jubilee MP. Click here for the latest political news  