Cytonn Investments plans to list by introduction on the NSE’s Growth and Enterprise Market Segment before the end of March. The move is aimed at diversifying the investment firm’s revenue sources and growing its capital. “We expect to have listed by introduction by the first quarter of 2018,” Cytonn Investments chief executive officer Edwin Dande said. Listing by introduction will allow the firm to put its shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange without necessarily raising money from the public. “We want to first see how the shares trade and allow people a chance to get familiar with the company,” Dande said. He added that the Initial Public Offering geared towards funding growth will be expected in 18-24 months after listing by introduction. The firm is also looking to expand its capital base by engaging with regulators from the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and London Securities Exchange to do a dual-listing. “For the IPO, we are yet to make a decision on whether we shall do it on our local exchange only or we will do it locally and in another global exchange,” Dande said. “The reason why we are thinking of another exchange is because they have a lot more capital than we do so it helps to do a dual listing.” Cytonn is also looking to raise capital through the provision of debt facilities that will be anchored to specific projects. “When we talk about these notes, we will tie them directly to projects. We will take four projects, Alma, Taraji, Amara and one more and raise money to go directly into the projects which will in turn provide security,” Dande said. The investment management firm draws funds from four main sources including foreign and local institutional investors with a 40 per cent contribution, high net worth investors at 40 per cent while diaspora and cooperatives (small scale) investors cater for 15 and five per cent of the firm’s funds. The group’s revenue for the nine-month period ending September grew 134 per cent to Sh932.9 million compared to Sh398.7 million reported the same period last year driven by increased investments in real estate. “Group accounting profit for the nine-months ended September 2017 came in at Sh526 million. This resulted in growth of shareholder equity of 15.8 per cent to Sh6.2 billion, from Sh5.3 billion in the same period last year,” Cytonn financial controller Shiv Arora said. Click here for the latest political stories  