National Assembly sittings will resume at 2.30pm on February 13 and MPs will be busy following the Christmas break. Parliament went on recess on December 6 after extending sittings by one week to conclude vetting of EALA nominees. Top on their agenda in February will be the vetting of CS and PS nominees for President Uhuru Kenyatta's cabinet. They will also be expected to pass key Bills by members, which is one of their core mandates. Before breaking for the holidays, 15 Bills were introduced in the House, Three were passed, two assented to and one not assented to within the period prescribed by the Constitution. Among the laws President Uhuru Kenyatta signed were: 1. County Allocation of Revenue (Amendment) Act The Act which provides for horizontal sharing of county revenue, was passed early in December. However, the schedule of disbursement approved by the Senate after the August election is at variance with the Act. In the 2017/18 financial year, Sh345 billion was approved for disbursement to counties. 2. Election Laws (Amendment) Act One of the most crucial laws passed in 2017, the Act bars the Supreme Court from annulling an election of the President based on minor inconsistencies. It redefines the definition of the chairperson of IEBC, whereby the election results can be announced even in the absence of the chair. The vice chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission would act as the chairperson. "A Court shall not declare an election void for non-compliance with any written law relating to that election if it appears that (a) the election was conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution and in that written law, and (b) the non-compliance did not substantially affect the result of the election,” it reads. Amendments to the law were introduced by the committee chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo after public hearings. Related: Election laws amendments were applicable in presidential petition - Supreme Court 3. Supplementary Appropriation Act The law gave the government the go-ahead to spend the Sh46.7 billion passed in the supplementary budget to fund key government projects. They included the repeat October 26 presidential election and free secondary education from January next year. The Ministry of Education was given Sh25 billion for secondary education. The amount will also be used to expand infrastructure to cater for the expected increase in enrollment. The law which passed in one sitting also saw MPs award themselves an extra Sh1.5 billion for the National Government-Constituency Development Fund. The amount was on top of the Sh30.9 billion allocated in the financial year. The government got Sh2 billion for the resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons after the 200/8 post-election violence. Read: Uhuru signs supplementary budget Bill, election gets Sh12 billion 4. Finance Act The Bill sought to amend the law relating to various taxes and duties. It also helped amend the Betting, Lotteries and Gambling Act (Cap. 131) to increase tax rates to 35 per cent. 5. Insurance Amendment Act The Bill was submitted by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich in line with proposals announced in the 2017/18 budget. It sought to amend Insurance Act (Cap. 487) to harmonise provisions in line with amendments. It also sought to amend section 41 of the Insurance Act to prescribe assets that shall not be included for purposes of determining an insurer’s capital adequacy. Further, it sought to amend the Insurance Act to define what admitted liabilities are, a term which Insurance Act had not defined. 6. Health Act The law seeks to define how national health policy shall be formulated, implemented and coordinated between the two levels of government. It is aimed at ensuring the establishment of a national health system which shall progressively realise the right to the highest attainable standard of health, including the right to healthcare services and reproductive health. More on this: State summit to discuss Health Act, sector problems 7. Clinical Officers Act The law elevates the workers to the skilled and professional level and provides for the training, registration and licensing of officers. It establishes the Clinical Officers’ Council of Kenya which is responsible for advising the government on policy relating to clinical medicine. 8. Basic Education (Amendment) Act The Act amends the Basic Education Act and places on the government, the responsibility of providing free, sufficient and quality sanitary towels to every girl enrolled in a basic public education institution.  The law says the government shall provide a sound environmental mechanism for disposal of the sanitary towels. 9. National Coroners Service Act Among its aims are the investigation of reportable deaths in order to determine the identities of the people, the times, dates, manners and causes of their deaths. Click here for the latest political stories