Gor Mahia forward Meddie Kagere was crowned the Most Valuable Player (MVP) during the 2017 LG Electronics/Sports Journalists Association of Kenya 2017 Football award Gala held at the National Museum of Kenya in Nairobi on Monday night. He takes over from last year’s winner Kenneth Muguna having played a pivotal role in steering K’Ogalo to their record 16th title. “This award comes through hard work and pain. I didn’t do this alone, with the help of team-mates, office and staff, I get this as the best player,” an emotional Kagere said as he picked the award, presented by Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia. Kagere had a good season with Gor in his second return, contributing to 18 goals, scoring 14 and assisting four. He was the first runner up to Michael Olunga in 2015 when the two partnered to deliver the title unbeaten. Kagere won the accolade ahead of team-mate George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo and Golden Boot winner Masoud Juma from Kariobangi Sharks. The Golden Glove award went to Sharks goal keeper, John Oyemba who managed 16 clean sheets, beating Kakamega Homeboyz custodian David Juma (15) to second place while Posta Rangers’ Patrick Matasi (15) was third. Gor Mahia captain Musa Mohammed was named the Defender of the Year, ahead of Posta Rangers’ Jockins Atudo while Godfrey Walusimbi completed the top three places. Blackberry waded off stiff competition from Nzoia’s Lawrence Juma and Michael Madoya from Zoo FC to win the Midfielder of the Year award.  Masoud won the Gooden Boot after notching 17 goals this season. Kagere (14 goals) for runners up while Jacques Tuyisenge (Gor), Kepha Aswani (Nakumatt) and Stephen Waruru (Ulinzi Stars) tied in third place with 13 goals each. Zoo FC striker, Nicholas Kipkirui was named the new young player of the year woth Leopards’ Vincent Oburu and Nzoia defender Brian Otieno placing seciond ans third respectively. Ugandan tactician Sam Ssimbwa scooped the Coach of the Year Award ahead of Kariobangi Sharks’ William Muluya and Mike Mururi of Kakamega Homeboyz. All nominees received Sh300,000 courtesy of the National Sports Fund with all winners taking home a 49-inch smart television, runners-up were awarded a fridge while third place finishers went home with a microwave all courtesy of sponsors LG Electronics.