In terms of the reforms in the police sector, I can say Yes and No. Yes in that we have had the requisite pieces of legislation framework - the constitutional and legislation – to adequately guide the transformation of the National Police Service. The promulgation of the 2010 Constitution and the passage of several pieces of legislation, including the National Police Service Act 2011, The National Police Service Commission Act, and The Independent Policing Oversight Act, have also set the phase of transformation in the police. These are very comprehensive pieces of legislation emanating from the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which clearly give us the direction on what kind of police institution is required to provide safety and security to our citizens and their property across the country, regardless of their status in society. Following what we have seen, that institutions have been set up since 2010 – we have had the Office of the Inspector General, two deputies, beefing up of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations as a strong department of investigations of crime We have the IPOA setup, the Internal Affairs Unit set up within the police, the Police Service Commission is in place. All these are a result of the legislation put in place to guide the process of reforms in the Police Service. However, the good story stops there. This is because the National Police Service Commission that was supposed to be the human resource arm that was to professionalise police failed from the word Go. The NPSC messed up with the police vetting, which was supposed to clean up the service of the people who were undesirable. So we have lost the National Police Service Commission because it has failed to live up to its mandate. It has become a theatre of rent seeking. We have lost the vetting process, despite having spent a lot of taxpayers’ money - it has not helped to cleanup the service. When you look at the office of IG as an independent office, you will see that the Executive has been involved in amending the Police Service Act to reduce the powers of the IG and the independence of the office. There is inadequate political goodwill to provide space for police transformation and the focus has been on taking control of the police for partisan interests. We have had to go to court to stop non-procedural recruitment of police officers.