The Sports Personality of the Year Award (SOYA) awards received a boost of Sh2.5 million from Communications Authority of Kenya and the National Social Security Fund. Communications Authority forked out Sh1 million while NSSF donated Sh1.5m during presentation ceremony held at a city hotel. Speaking on behalf of CA, who have partnered with Soya for the last seven years, acting director for consumer and public affairs, Christopher Wambua, said the gala had grown in leaps and bounds and provides a great avenue to celebrate the gains made by our sports personalities. “We are always excited to be part of a fete that recognises each year, the great strides our sportsmen and women are make. As part of our CSR pillars, sports provide a great avenue we use to encourage our athletes from various field to nurture and grow their talent,” Wambua added. NSSF public relations and communication manager, Dr. Christopher Khisa said instilling and passing on good virtues that impact positively on social security, which is the organisation’s core value, is ties in with the theme of this event dubbed, ‘Passing the baton.’ “At NSSF, we work toward ‘growing for your good’ as an individual, by planning for your future through social investment. We are glad to partner with the organization of this event but we are working towards reaching out to our sportsmen and women and encourage them to plan for their future when they will be out sporting limelight by investing during their glory days. We are pleased to be associated with sports icon like Paul Tergat and other athletes, who have established avenues to nurture and grow talent,” added Khisa.  On behalf of Soya patron Paul Tergat, Simon Chebon thanked the sponsors who have continually believed in Soya. “It’s through your partnership that we are able to gather for acknowledgement and appreciate our champions,” he said. Soya panel chairperson, Watson Karuma encouraged upcoming sportsmen and women to keep pushing toward the path of sports glory. The 14th edition for the award will be held on January 17.