Our attention has been drawn to the article in the Star edition of Tuesday, December 19, titled ‘No new culture of attitude and conduct in Police Service' by Peter Kiama. The National Police Service Commission is established under Article 246 of the Constitution and has the following as its Human Capital Management functions: Recruit and appoint persons to act in offices in the service, confirm appointments and determine promotions and transfers within the National Police Service; Observing due process, exercise disciplinary control over and remove persons holding or acting in offices within the service; Perform any other duties as prescribed by National Legislation. Under the expanded national legislation, the commission has been able to achieve a lot, with the following standing out: Improvement of terms and conditions under which the police officers serve; Developed career advancement, regulations and schemes of service for all the officers in the NPS through a wide consultative and professional process with police leadership; and spearheaded the development of a training curriculum for members of the service—a process that has been deeply consultative. To claim that “the commission failed from the word go” is not only hollow in its simplicity, but also deliberately dishonest. The commission, which came into being in October 2012, started with the process that led to selection and appointment of the first ever Inspector General of Police, two Deputy IGs and the Director of Criminal Investigations. In pursuance of its mandate, the commission has continued to appoint and promote police officers to various ranks over the last four years based on verifiable meritocracy. This is a departure from the previous practise which the Philip Ransley Report would attest to. Kiama had the privilege of being in the team that came up with the tools and regulations governing the vetting process that he now casts aspersions upon. These tools continue to be employed effectively to ensure the process is fair in its administration. Vetting is a small component of the commission’s functions and is infact enshrined in the National Police Service Act Chapter 7. It focuses on at transitional vetting which looks into the competence and suitability of the officers, with a view for retention or removal. The commission has to date vetted all police officers in the old ranks of senior deputy commissioner, deputy commissioner, senior assistant commissioner, assistant commissioner, senior superintendents, superintendent of police and is just about to complete the vetting of all Traffic police officers across the ranks The successful officers have subsequently been promoted to the new ranks comprising Senior Assistant Inspector General (eight), Assistant Inspector General (45), Commissioner of Police (67), Senior Superintendent (442), Superintendent (211) and Assistant Inspector of Police (519). This certainly does not reflect any facet of failure to perform or an indication of “no new culture”. So far this process has resulted in the removal of 224 from the service. Kiama’s IMLU being among the architects of the vetting tools should understand their comprehensive character. Vetting, Kiama should appreciate, is carried out in strict conformity to the core values of the Constitution and, hence, police officers undergoing the same should not be condemned unheard. They have a constitutional right to file for a review or even move to court in case they feel they have not been given a fair hearing. The commission’s mandate is today executed under new processes and procedures that have been developed in line with Constitution and in conformity with the NPSC and NPS Acts. The commission published and gazetted the following regulations, which guide the human capital function: Recruitment and appointment; promotion; transfer and deployment; and discipline. The commission is also finalising on a number of other regulations that will clearly define transformational measures in the manner of handling the human resource once they become operational early next year. Kiama and his condescending ilk, whether at a personal level or representing an institution, should be reminded that the commission works closely and in collaboration with other players in the criminal justice system in the quest to transform the police service. These include: The Independent Police Oversight Authority, leadership of the National Police Service; Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission; Director of Public Prosecutions and Interior ministry. All have clearly spelt out roles in relation to matters of police transformation. These broadly capture the key functions of the commission, hence, for Kiama to make it appear as though the commission is only involved in vetting can only lead to the conclusion that he surely needs help. In an attempt to pour scorn and foment discontent within the NPSC, Kiama, who is also a member of the Police Reform Working Group, fails miserably, as he either is economical with facts or is on the warpath with the commission; primarily to pour cold water on its achievements. Kiama should be at liberty to contact us or pay us a visit whenever he is researching on an article touching on police reforms, especially the role played by the commission in the management of the human capital function, which he unfortunately narrows down to his pet subject of ‘police vetting’. We will be more than glad to provide the facts. Patrick Odongo is the director, Communication and Outreach, at the National Police Service Commission        