The parastatals reform task force commissioned in July 2013 by the president has said that 28 state corporations are successfully merged, with savings of up to Sh3 billion. The resultant reorganization reduced the number of entities classified as government owned entities to 187 from 262, representing a 28 per cent reduction. The legal advisor to the deputy president said the merging of the state corporations led to layoffs but saved close to Sh3 billion by 2017. “The savings from this rationalization has come to Sh3.2 billion, and merges have taken place in about 36 state corporations since work on the task force was completed, with merges of nearly 13 corporations within the agriculture sector,” legal advisor to the Deputy President, Korir Sing’oei, said. According to the report by the presidential task force on parastatal reforms, the main purpose of the rationalization and therefore re-organization through the merging was to increase efficiency and effectiveness, rationalize areas of overlapping mandates and improve service delivery. Other factors included enhancing the ability of public agencies to meet their core regulatory and developmental mandates and maximize the contribution to sectoral and national development goals under Kenya Vision 2030. The taskforce on parastatal reforms was appointed with a mandate to conclude policy review on the parastatal sector with the aim of addressing the sectoral challenges while achieving government policy priorities. This led to a re-definition of State Corporations and an elaborate re-organization with an intention to entrench efficiency and effectiveness in the institutional structures, governance and service delivery in the sector. As soon as the task force undertook its work 21 government owned enterprises were dropped after new definitions of either being state co-operation or state agency, 22 were earmarked for transfer, 18 government owned entities whose functions were devolved, 28 were merged and 14 government entities were created. Moreover, it has been five years since the open government partnership (OGP) began, it aims to secure concrete commitments from governments to promote transparency, empower citizens, fight corruption and harness new technologies to strengthen governance and it has shown a big impact in Kenya through laws that have enabled the ease of doing business in Kenya which has improved our rank level as a country and boosted county development such as in Elgeyo Marakwet that have benefited from government interventions. 