The High Court has ordered investigations into forgery allegations against a member of Kenya Petroleum Oil Workers Union. The union has countrywide membership of workers in the petroleum, gas and oil sector, which includes people working in petrol stations. Labour court judge Hellen Wasilwa has directed police to look into claims that George Okoth forged a court order to Standard Chartered Bank stopping transactions by union officials. Other documents were presented to Registrar of Trade Unions Esther Gicheha. "Since the registrar acted on documents that were forged, I hereby direct police to investigate this matter," Wasilwa said on Monday. Documents that lawyer Dismas Wambola presented in curt show Okoth forged a November 17 court order, purporting to freeze the union's accounts at Standard Chartered. Okoth has also been accused of forging minutes of a National Executive Council meeting in which he stated he was elected acting secretary general of the union. The position fell vacant after the death of Gilbert Amollo. In an affidavit sworn by union chairman Charles Okoko, Okoth has been accused of fraudulently and unlawfully causing the Registrar of Trade Unions to enter her name in a register as the acting SG. It has also been said that he broke into the union's office along Jogoo Road and planted thugs to block officials from accessing the premises. "The first respondent has hired thugs and broken the padlocks of the claimant's office situated at the Kenya Commercial Bank building along Jogoo Road and replaced the same with his own..." the affidavit states. "[He has placed] thugs to man the entrance to the offices, locking out lawful officials of the claimants from accessing the offices." The judge revoked Okoth's appointment as secretary general of the 2,500-member union. She also ordered the reopening of KPOWU's offices and directed that officials continue serving until the matter is heard and determined. The matter will be heard on December 18. Click here for the latest political news