Raila Odinga's swearing-in is a recipe for chaos and will not produce solutions, Wiper deputy party leader Farah Maalim has said. Maalim said on Monday that such a move will not see an end to the political impasse Kenya is facing. It is not clear if this is the official position of his party which is lead by Kalonzo Musyoka who was Raila's running mate. The general election took place on August 8 but the NASA chief rejected the results and filed a petition at the Supreme Court, resulting in a repeat on October 26. President Uhuru Kenyatta won the second election with 98 per cent of the vote after Raila withdrew but he has sustained his push for reforms. He said he will be declared Kenya's ruler through the People's Assembly. More on this: [VIDEO] I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Maalim, who is former National Assembly deputy speaker, told NTV that though he supports electoral reforms, he will "hesitate to back the idea of swearing-in another president". "I am somebody with a legal background and who would like to uphold the law. I have not been part of the process of the agreement for the swearing-in," he said. "The same legal framework NASA applauded for nullifying the August 8 election has, for valid reasons, upheld the validity of the October 26 repeat election and thus all players need to respect it. The law is an ass. "What we need to do is back and try to use other methods to push changes we want implemented. Swearing-in Raila, to me, will not be a solution." As Uhuru was inaugurated at Kasarani stadium last Tuesday, NASA supporters battled police who eventually prevented their meeting at Jacaranda grounds. They cut Raila's speech short by firing tear gas and firing many gunshots. Raila and other Opposition leaders have remained defiant in their push for reforms and a better Kenya, which they refer to as Canaan or the promised land. The swearing-in at an undisclosed venue, a ceremony for which invitation cards have been sent, is likely to spark more confrontation. The venue will be communication to attendees who will be vetted, the coalition said in its Telegram channel. Details remain scanty but sources in NASA say it is not "just mere political talk". Read: Raila sends invitation cards for December 12 swearing in Also Read: Swearing in Raila or seceding is our only option – NASA leaders Click here for the latest political stories  