If you’re the kind of person who keeps a calendar,
and maybe even a diary, it may have come to your attention that we are in the
last days of the year. Gift buying season, otherwise known as Christmas,
is done and dusted and for parents especially, this is a huge relief seeing as
that we’re talking about the conclusion of that time of year, every year,
parents have to pay up on all those gifts – bribes I should say – that they
promised their kids in exchange for good behaviour and good grades.    And the sort of Christmas gifts we’re talking
about, these bribes, are not those perfect gifts recommended by parenting
magazines; you know, gifts that promise to improve your child’s reading skills,
or their minds, or their social skills. No, that’s not what you promised
junior, and so, that over-priced laptop, or smart phone, or a pair of J’s
(these are shoes by the way) it was.  Now we’re here, end of year, what’s next? School of
course, the gift of education. It is every parent’s wish to give their child a
great education so that they can have a bright future. To that end we search
for the best schools to take them to, more so if they’ve just completed KCPE,
or KCSE. In every parent’s mind, it’s not the expensive Christmas gifts they
buy their kids every year that is the greatest gift, it is education they
consider a greater gift.  Is it though? I believe, not quite.  Hold on to your hats if you may, while I tell
you what the greatest gift you can give to your children is.  The greatest gift a parent
can give to their children is the will to go after the things they’re
passionate about.  Every good parent thinks about their child’s
future. All too often however many a good parent makes the mistake of assuming
that what they want for their children is the same thing their children want
for themselves. It’s funny that although we always ask our kids what they want
for Christmas, we rarely ask and actually listen to what they really want to do
with their lives.   It’s all well and good if your kid’s plans are in
line with your plans; say he wants to become a doctor, a lawyer, or an
engineer. Strife only emerges when the kid has plans of his own, different from
the norm, plans that are not quite go-out-into-the-world-to-attain-wealth-and-status.
If he’s talking about becoming a painter, a DJ, or even a ventriloquist, he’s on
his own for it will be that one rare parent, if any, that will pay for
Ventriloquist College.   I imagine it is hard enough telling people at a
cocktail party that you’re a ventriloquist and for them to then turn to your
date, who you have your arm around, wondering if she’s the puppet. Imagine how
much harder it is not having the support of a parent in pursuing this
particular vocation.  Affirming your child’s ambitions, validating his
dreams no matter how strange; what greater gift is there than to give your
child the encouragement to be who they were meant to be?  That’s the job really, having your kid’s back no
matter what. 