At least 19 local companies were caught by surprise when the WannaCry ransomware outbreak attacked them in May this year, probably the biggest cyber-attack of 2017 on institutions. Having caused an un-expected disruption of service delivery and loss of capital in the process, is 2018 going to see cyber-attacks hit companies once again by surprise? According to a recent study by cyber-security firm ESET, local companies, just like their peers abroad, should brace themselves for an increase in cyber-attacks in 2018. “While many large companies appear to be taking cyber-security more seriously these days, with security teams getting both the budget and the C-level backing required to do a good job, many smaller businesses supplying goods and services to larger organisations are struggling. That makes them an attractive target,” ESET senior security researcher Stephen Cobb said. According to the report, most firms did not learn from these attacks. It revealed that most of them are still prepared to spend large sums in ransom payment in 2018 as opposed to investing in cyber defenses, a move highly discouraged by industry experts. While cyber-attacks hit the headlines, trends linked to them mushroomed behind the scenes. They include the rapid growth of fake news, increased data collection by the government using digital platforms and increased use of cryptocurrencies in the country. Will these trends keep rising in 2018, and what do they mean for existing firms? Yes, industry experts have predicted an increase in the trends. They predict a situation where businesses and governments will use data information at their disposal to counter rivals and influence public opinion. Fort cryptocurrencies, popularly known in Kenya as Bitcoin, the government through the Central Bank, Capital Markets Authority and other stakeholders, are likely to introduce strict regulations on their use. This is because most of the cyber-attacks that occurred in 2017 were funded through cryptocurrencies. According to Check Point, a software technologies firm, the emergence of crypto miners, a new malware tool suspected to generate revenue by hi-jacking the CPU power of unsuspecting computer users to generate currency, often without the users’ knowledge or consent, should also be watched out for in 2018. In its predictions, enterprise information service provider CSO found out that the decline of password only authentications will accelerate, with many device users adapting multi-factor authentication. Other trends to be expected in 2018 as outlined by CSO include increased attacks via compromised Internet of Things, since most devices have no defense against hackers who could want to get control of them. Lastly, automation of threat detection tasks is likely to go up driven by an increase in attacks. This will lead to an increase in investments on machine learning based tools to help filter alerts to lighten the load of overburdened security staff.      