NTSA has suspended the operator's license of Marimba Investment Sacco whose matatu crew allegedly beat a man to death on December 24 in Zimmerman. Joseph Kiarie was attacked by touts and drivers of a matatu belonging to the Sacco following a freak accident in the area. He died moments later at the Neema Uhai Hospital where he was rushed for treatment.  Read: No arrest , 72 hours after matatu crew allegedly kill motorist in Zimmerman after quarrel over accident NTSA Director General Francis Meja said the suspension will be lifted only after the Sacco fulfils four conditions issued by the authority. They include cooperation with the police in investigations that will lead to the reprehension of the crew involved. "If necessary, place a public notice in the local dailies to have them brought to book," Meja said in a statement on Friday. He said the Sacco should also present certificates of good conduct for all its drivers and conductors obtained from the date of the suspension and undertake an awareness workshop which will be conducted by NTSA. Meja also directed the Sacco to convene a meeting between its members (matatu owners) and the authority. "Any vehicle belonging to the company and found operating contrary to this suspension will be impounded," he warned. NTSA regulations require Matatu Saccos to have a code of conduct which should guide the conduct of its crew during working hours. Sacco's are also obligated by the same rules to ensure that drivers and conductors in its fleets do not harass passengers and members of the public. "By neglecting, refusing or failing to ensure the employees conduct themselves in accordance with the code of conduct, the company contravened the license," Meja said, noting that the Sacco submitted a report on the incident that contradicted preliminary police investigations.  On the fateful day, Kiarie was reportedly driving out of a car wash in Zimmerman when his car was grazed by a matatu. The matatu crew are said to have differed with Kiarie over cash payment for the incident and the tout and driver attacked him with a crew from another matatu. Witnesses said Kiarie was outnumbered by the rogue crew when he insisted that they compensate him for the damage caused to his vehicle.   Click here for latest political news   