President Donald Trump has not been in office for even a year but he holds the record for telling more lies than any other President in American history and by far. Confronted by the press right after Trump’s inauguration in January about this, even by the then growing unleashing of lies daily, a spokesperson said what Trump and the White House were offering were “alternative facts”. Anyone watching that saw the writing on the wall, which had been there for a while: The Trump administration would have no qualms passing lies as facts and they haven’t disappointed.  The list of lies is as long as the eye can see. It is also difficult to tell which one of the lies is the worst. Every time Trump and his minions tell a lie, the presidency is diminished. So much so such that the highly respected New York Times has taken it upon itself to document the lies on its website. If you have a whole day free, point your browser there and learn about some of these lies. A President telling lies or trying to create an alternate reality for himself and his yes men and women around him erodes confidence in the presidency, which in turn brings along with it even more dysfunction and inability to have anything done as nobody takes the President seriously. This is one of the major problems Trump faces, as does President Uhuru Kenyatta. One would have to have their heads buried so deep in the ground or their eyes shut so tight not to see and ears plugged not to hear the fact we have an Uhuru presidency. This is not because he was elected in 2013 courtesy of the most votes cast and worse so in 2017. To be sure, and as this writer has repeatedly noted, Uhuru could have cleanly won the presidency in 2013 had he not opted to rig the first round, eliminating the second round in which he would have won, given the dynamics of that election and based on what this writer and others who were involved know. But 2017 is a different story; the August 8 presidential election was nothing short of daytime robbery. Anyone intellectually honest would have to agree but no doubt those in denial—or more accurately, those who, like Trump, want to believe in their alternate reality, would disagree and that’s the point of this column: We really need to stop this widespread wicked desire to refuse to believe facts, instead choosing to believe and peddle lies, even in the face of hard evidence such as the flagrant, in-your-face cooking of numbers by Jubilee during the August 8 election, which the Supreme Court rightly tossed out in its historic decision nullifying the declaration of Uhuru as President. There was no election to speak of on October 26, so Uhuru gets a pass whether he stole or not. Of course, he has the stench of the 2013 election still suffocating half of the country that knows he was not legitimately elected and therefore don’t accept him as a legitimately elected President and will not unless Uhuru recognises this fact and does something about it. And there’s a lot Uhuru can do, starting from reaching out to Raila and genuinely negotiating a deal that can (a) unite the country and (b) ensure that our electoral system is truly reformed, not the sham “reorganisations” we have had in the past putting lipstick to the same pig. Alongside that, Uhuru can make sure he appoints a Cabinet that reflects the face of Kenya, not merely overloading the government with people from two tribes and painting tokens here and there and calling that a national government. A government that only caters to Jubilee strongholds is nothing but divisive, corrosive and antithetical to traditional notions of fundamental fairness, justice and probity. This is what Uhuru and the people around him must keep in mind as we usher in the New Year, otherwise our beloved country will become a shadow of its former self.   Samuel Omwenga
is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States