Volunteers are contributing up to Sh236 billion of the country’s Gross Domestic Product earnings, according to a new report to be launched today. Individual or groups that are offering their time, skills and money to provide services by free choice for the benefit of others contributed 3.6 per cent of the GDP. According to the report to be released by the Ministry of East African Community, Labour and Social Protection at NSSF building, volunteer work was transforming the quality of life of residents in many counties. The study, Measuring the Contribution of Volunteer Work on Kenya’s Gross Domestic Product found that nearly 14 million of Kenyans engage in a form of volunteerism. The report comes ahead of the International Volunteer Day celebrations tomorrow. The celebrations culminate in an awards ceremony for volunteers who have made outstanding contributions. The International Volunteer Day activities will include a symposium to spread awareness on Kenyan Volunteerism, the Volunteerism Policy, the Volunteerism Bill and Research Findings on the Contribution of Volunteer Work to the GDP. The research found that volunteers gave an average of 48 hours to volunteer work annually. This was estimated that a total of 669,630,288 hours was given in volunteer work in 2016 lone,. According to the report, volunteer work contributed Sh236 billion or 3.66 per cent of the GDP. The report recommends that the contribution of Volunteer Work was higher than contribution by human health sector (1.67 percent), mining and quarrying (0.83 percent). “The contribution to GDP is almost equal to that of education (4.85 percent) and construction (4.64 percent),” the report says. It calls for the support informal volunteering “without formalizing it, as this would kill this spirit of volunteering based on cultural sensitivities and values”. It suggests an online Portal be opened where volunteers can sign in and record their contributions. “This portal can also be used when identifying extra ordinary volunteers to honour for their efforts.” The report suggests that the National Volunteer Secretariat form a Volunteer Sector Working Group, incorporating all Government Agencies that involve volunteers, volunteer involving organisations and the private sector to make it easier to coordinate future assignments. The report calls for the setting up a National Volunteer Trust Fund which will receive volunteer donations and manage them. “The fund will advocate for policy incentives, like tax breaks, that encourage individuals to donate to support volunteerism,” the report says. The education curriculum at all levels, should include volunteerism and service says the report. “The government should work with institutions of higher learning to introduce formal training and certification of volunteer managers in the country,” the report adds. If adopted, the government will develop guidelines to assist Local and National volunteerism organisations to generate own funds within the law. It also recommends that the government set up a volunteer programme for seniors and retired professionals to tap on their experience and give them a purpose for continued community service. This program could include assisting employees be more prepared for retirement, the report says.        