Police are frustrating investigations into the murder of Joseph Kiarie who was killed by matatu crew in Zimmerman because they (police) own most of the buses, the family has said. Kiarie was attacked by touts and drivers of a matatu belonging to the Marimba Investment Sacco following a freak accident on December 24. “We are privy to information that most of the buses and matatus that ply that route are owned by police officers and that’s why the bus was released despite being in an accident that resulted to the death of our brother,” Kiarie's brother Antony Koinange said. He alleged that the police have been dilly-dallying in arresting the perpetrators despite them having their particulars. Read:No arrest after matatu crew kill motorist in Zimmerman Speaking at their Komo village home in Thika East on Friday, Koinange said that the family is yet to understand the motive behind the officers’ slackness in apprehending the murderers five days after the incident. “But we don’t care who own the buses. All we demand is justice for our brother. This is a crime that should not go unpunished,” Koinange added. He said that the family noted that the police were not straight in following up the matter after they were taken rounds at Kasarani police station. “Again the police had indicated in the initial report concerning my brother’s death that he was beaten by a mob. But we protested and they retracted the statement and wrote the correct version,” Koinange said. Koinange said that his brother was a visionary person who apart from vying for the Gatuanyaga ward seat in this year’s general election had plans to set up a water packaging company along the southern by-pass.  “He had already procured machines worth Sh3 million and bought a house along the by-pass ready to kick off his work. He’d have offered employment to many people but now his life has been cut short by some notorious and cruel criminals,” he said.  His sister Pauline Wanjiru who was inconsolable said amid sobs that the police must produce the killers since they are known. “I want to see those who took the life of my dear brother behind bars. The law must take its course and ensure that justice is served accordingly,” she said. Thika town MP Patrick Wainaina termed the incident as unfortunate and an exhibition of a high level of impunity. “These are heartless criminals and it seems they are used to committing such high degree crimes. They must be brought to book and suffer the wrath of the law,” Wainaina said. On Friday, NTSA suspended the operator's license of Marimba Investment Sacco. “NTSA must also ensure that the crew is adequately trained so as to end such insanity on the road. Those perpetrators must have been under influence of drugs and we cannot trust the safety of innocent Kenyans in their buses,’ he said. Also read: NTSA suspends Marimba Sacco license after crew kill man  