Pokot leaders have called for urgent peace talks after six people were killed and several injured in apparent retaliatory attacks between the Turkana and Pokots in Kapedo. On November 19, suspected bandits from Turkana killed two police officers and one education officer who were ferrying KCSE exam papers in Lomelo in Turkana East. Read more : Three killed as bandits attack car ferrying KCSE papers in Turkana After three days, the Pokots retaliated and killed one Turkana resident in Kapedo. On the same day, the Turkanas ambushed the Pokots and killed two people who were heading home from Ameyan market. Yesterday, Pokot leaders from Tiaty subcounty in Baringo said there is need for urgent dialogue with their counterparts from Turkana East subcounty. Led by Ripkwo MCA Daniel Tuwit, they said the security situation in Kapedo is deteriorating. They said if an amicable solution is not found swiftly, there might be further killings. Tuwit spoke to the press outside the Baringo county assembly. Read more : Tension high after bandits kill man at Turkana-West Pokot border He was backed by his Kolowa MCA Solomon Makal, Nelson Lotela of Silale, Sam Louren of Tirioko and Ameja Zelemoi of Churo-Amaya. “Tension remains high in the area as more than 2,000 people from both communities cannot go about their daily activities. We are urging the government to urgently intervene to end the clashes,” Makal said. “My worry is that the two communities might be planning major retaliatory attacks.” He said apart from the disputed land boundary in Kapedo, the two communities have been clashing over stolen livestock. Tiaty subcounty deputy commissioner Yusuf Huka confirmed the renewed attacks between Pokot and Turkana communities. “There is always tension in this region due to persistent attacks. We are urging the communities to refrain from revenge attacks and engage in peace talks,” he said. Huka said they were holding a security committee meeting to chart the way forward to ending the clashes. He said the government is always striving to bring the warring communities together. Click here for more political news 