The Kenyan mission at the United Nations was closed for the holidays at the time when 128 countries voted against Donald Trump’s decision on Jerusalem. Kenya’s Permanent Representative to the UN Macharia Kamau has explained why Kenyan officials were missing at the Thursday vote. Kamau said contrary to reports that Kenya deliberately stayed away, the mission was “officially missing in action”. But it also appeared that Kenya was making a balancing diplomatic move, having traditionally voted for Palestine. Israel has become a key Kenyan ally and is among the top 10 recipients of US aid. Kenya was among 21 nations that did not vote in the process that saw 35 nations abstain and nine voting against the resolution. Read:Over 120 UN countries vote against Trump's decision on Jerusalem Also Read:Trump threatens to cut aid to UN members over Jerusalem vote The envoy added that if the mission was open and Kenya participated in the vote, then it would have abstained. “Mission had registered as closed as 20/12/17 prior to call of vote and [United States Ambassador to the United Nations] Nikki Haley’s threats. And by the way, Kenya policy is to abstain in Country Specific votes with the exception of Palestine and Cuba,” Kamau said. He added, “That is Kenya’s normal voting pattern. Specific to Palestine. The Thursday vote was specific to the US. If the mission was open we would have abstained.” The UN member states defied President Trump and voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution calling for the US to drop its recent recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. Trump had threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that voted in favour of the resolution. The threat appeared to have some impact, with more countries abstaining and rejecting the resolution than usually associated with Palestinian-related resolutions. However, the top 10 recipients of US aid, which include Kenya, defied Trump and either supported the motion or abstained. Kenya, a key ally of Israel, was the only country in the top 10 aid recipients that did not take part in the vote. Just a month ago, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held talks with various African leaders in Nairobi after the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Read:Trump recognises Jerusalem as Israel's capital, in reversal of policy Click here for latest political news