NASA leader Raila Odinga should stop misleading Kenyans by insisting on his swearing-in as President, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. Raila faced his key rival President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 8 but rejected the result and successfully petitioned it at the Supreme Court. But he withdrew from the repeat the court ordered saying the outcome had been pre-determined. The ODM boss is now the leader of a national resistance movement and said he will only retire once Kenyans are safely in 'Canaan'. He has vied five times for the top seat and has often complained of rigging. Attorney General Githu Muigai warned that his swearing-in would amount to treason but the Opposition leader said he was ready to pay the price. More on this: Raila swearing-in is treason punishable by death - Githu Muigai Also read: Raila oath plan still on, judge and bible picked - NASA But Savula said Raila has "lost his political senses and is behaving like a man who is naked yet aware [of this nakedness]". “Someone should tell Raila that he is naked and that he needs to get his clothes back from where he forgot them. What he says or does is no longer attractive to Kenyans," he said in Eldoret on Sunday. He added the politician's advisers were misleading him about the inauguration yet it will "serve nothing but to embarrass him and the Opposition". "I wonder why he is still thinking of things such as taking an oath. Let him do better things including cleaning his own house where we have very many complaints." The MP said he will not participate in the ceremony and will convince his colleagues to skip it. He noted they have the option of registering NASA as a party and starting preparations for the 2022 general elections with another presidential candidate. The legislator said ODM had frustrated other parties in the National Super Alliance and warned of serious consequences. "We complained but Raila refused to deal with issues to do with the sharing of positions in Parliament," he said. He added that ODM's move to take up all committee positions angered Amani National Congress, Wiper and Ford Kenya and that they politicians were no longer comfortable working with the orange party. He did not give details on this claim but noted: "Parties in NASA need each other. These are the issues Raila should be handling instead of being obsessed with a useless swearing-in plan that will only serve to hoodwink his supporters." ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and Wiper Kalonzo Musyoka have said in the past, amid claims of a falling out, that their alliance will not break.  Wrangles within NASA erupted on the floor of the House on December 13 over exclusion of Wiper Party from membership of the Parliamentary Service Commission. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi (Wiper) sparked protests saying Wiper, being a parliamentary party, was entitled to one slot. Momanyi said there were no consultations on how the three nominees were picked and wanted the NASA slots shared among its affiliates. More on this: Standoffs in Jubilee and NASA as MPs differ on PSC nominees Click here for the latest political stories