The Auditor General will enhance his auditing in counties to ensure proper use of resources. Speaking in Garissa yesterday when he officially opened the regional hub office, Auditor General Edward Ouko said that with more resources allocated to counties, there is need for closer supervision and oversight of projects to ensure value for money. “it is not only about auditing and coming up with reports, but ensuring that resources which go into programmes and projects impacts positively on the citizens. The counties have been blamed for misuse of public resources and inflating the cost of projects. “To unsure this does not happen, we are spreading our wings to each and every county by building more offices and posting enough staff. This is one way of ensuring that projects are delivered on time and resources utilized,” he said. The Auditor General termed Garissa audit office as a landmark and the first to be built in the country, saying it took 18 months to be completed. The two storey building cost Sh160 million. “We have demonstrated through this project that public money can be well utilized and projects delivered on time. This should be an eye opener for counties and other departments with the intention of coming up with projects,”he added. Ouko said that land has already been acquired in Kakamega and Eldoret to build similar offices.  He however regretted that all audit offices in the country are rented including the headquarters. He said it was unfortunate countries like Rwanda,Uganda and South Sudan that look upon Kenya as an economic power have offices while Kenya has none. “Even southern Sudan that got independence the other day have an office block for auditor general,” he said. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamud Saleh who was the chief guest, challenged the office of the auditor general to closely monitor the huge financial resources being given to counties by the national government. He regretted not much has been done in the three counties of Garissa,wajir and Mandera, despite the counties receiving over 30 billion annually.      