Kilifi MCAs will soon pass a labour affirmative law to ensure 70 per cent of jobs in the county go to natives. Non-natives will share the remainder. This comes barely a week after Kiambu county MCAs enacted a similar law. On Monday, the MCAs said in Mtwapa that nothing will bar them from championing the rights of “our people”. The converged for a press briefing after a Shanzu court dismissed a petition that challenged the election of Shimo La Tewa MCA Sammy Ndago. Ndago, the deputy majority leader in the assembly, said the assembly would convene a special sitting this week to debate the proposed law. “I tabled the motion in the assembly, but we could not commence the debate because of the House programmes. We are glad our colleagues in Kiambu have passed the motion. This is an indication that devolution is becoming a reality,” Ndago said. “We all know the Constitution cuts both sides and calls for 70 per cent job provision for the locals and 30 per cent for outsiders — those outside the ward, county or foreigners from other countries.” Mtepeni MCA Victor Mwaganda said, “Kilifi needed the law ahead of other counties and we had initiated discussions, but Kiambu has done it. This shows devolution has matured and it’s time citizens enjoyed its fruits.” Mwaganda dismissed claims that the law will promote ethnicism among residents. “We are not going tribal. Those from other tribes will also get their rights,” he said. Ndago told the national and county governments to accord the people of Kilifi their rights in respect of the Constitution. He urged all companies in the county to “respect the law” and give 70 per cent of their jobs to natives. “During our campaigns, we pledged to create jobs for our people. By having the law, we demand what rightfully belongs to us. The people of Kilifi must benefit from the industries and resources in their county,” he said. The MCAs also want the county procurement office to consider natives first when issuing tenders. “They must prioritise locals, especially the youth, women and persons living with disability who have had rough times under the past regimes. We shall not accept to see our people being oppressed,” he said.