Kalonzo Musyoka is expected to make a public appearance before the end of the week following his return from Germany after more than two months. The NASA principal and Wiper leader flew back on Wednesday from the trip that concerned his wife Pauline's treatment for an unknown illness. Reports indicated he returned with her but this has not been confirmed. Pauline had been working at Central Bank and running the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation before falling ill. Opposition principal Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok (Council of Governors chairman) and Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana visited Kalonzo and his son Kennedy in Germany. Kalonzo left the country shortly after he and ODM leader Raila Odinga withdrew from the October 26 presidential re-run, which they said would be rigged in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The fourth principal is Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress. The politician's lengthy stay abroad sparked speculation about his future in the National Super Alliance. The coalition has been giving the public updates about its moves, as part of its national resistance movement, the most important being the swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya. The former Vice President arrival is expected to excite the plan that many of NASA's supporters say should carry on. A section of NASA leaders had wanted him sworn-in while in Germany but Raila postponed the plans. The ceremony was to take place on Jamhuri Day when Kenya celebrated 54 years of independence.  Kalonzo is expected to visit the family of former Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, who was buried last week, as he could not attend the burial. The politician's plans have sparked curiosity as NASA and Jubilee Party want Kamba votes. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto have asked the Wiper boss to join them but he has refused. "It is comical for Uhuru and Ruto to ask me to join them as they march towards Opposition trenches, for that is surely where they will be after NASA takes over power," he said in July. Wetang'ula, who is Bungoma Senator, and Mudavadi, have declared in the past that the coalition will remain intact. More on this: Join Uhuru, Jubilee leaders tell Kalonzo after Raila pulls out of poll Also read: I can't join sinking Jubilee ship, Kalonzo tells 'panicking' UhuRuto Click here for the latest political stories