Thousands of civil servants will lose their jobs from February as the government starts slashing the sky-rocketing public sector wage bill. Nearly 39,000 employees — about half in the national government, half in the counties — will be retrenched, according to a staff audit report commissioned two years ago. Kenya has about 700,000 employees in the public sector, including 199,921 civil servants in the national and county governments. Firing was deferred until after the elections to avoid a voters' backlash against President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee Party, the Star has established. The government finally decided to bite the bullet and Uhuru is understood to have instructed the Department of Public Service to implement the downsizing report. Read:18,500 civil servants to be sacked Also Read:Corrupt civil servants will be sacked, Ruto warns Yesterday the President appeared to confirm the retrenchment of redundant staff. He told the Devolution Conference in Diani, Kwale, “I want you to join me in putting all our public service officers on notice. Nothing will be achieved without transformation of the public service. “Let us not allow faceless bureaucrats and functionaries to deny the public quality of service,” he told governors. Last week Deputy President William Ruto condemned "the mess in the public wage bill". The highest casualties will be in the ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government, which will send home about 12,000 employees if recommendations are followed. The ministry of Transport and Infrastructure will lose 2,039 staff followed by Education (1,393), Agriculture (1,828), Environment and Water (690), Information, Communication and Technology (255). Others are the East African Community (147) and Foreign Affairs (58), Industrialisation (98), Mining (23) and Treasury (40). Last month Council of Governors chairman Josephat Nanok promised all transitional staff challenges facing the 47 counties would be handled on a case-by-case basis. “Recently there have been massive lay-offs in the counties. There are instances where new governors are faced with a bloated workforce. This will be financially untenable in the long run,” Nanok said in a statement. According to the Capacity Assessment Rationalisation of the Public Service (CARPS) report, 24 counties proposed staffing levels in excess of what they currently employ. Only four counties — Nyeri, Narok, Busia, and Nairobi — proposed fewer staff. The ministry is reviewing the report to make adjustments to scenarios overtaken by events. The report prepared by Ernst & Young was concluded in 2015. After delaying for more than 24 months, government finally has decided to implement the recommendations, paving the way for what could be the second major retrenchment since Independence. In 1990 the government launched a 10-year civil service reform programme that culminated in compulsory retrenchment of many employees in 2000. According to multiple sources, the retrenchment will take place in be two phases from February. Redundant employees will go in phase one. The date of the second phase was not disclosed. “The plan is long overdue. It was set to be effected from 2016 but was put off by the presidency,” a senior officer in the presidency told the Star. Kenyatta launched the staffing audit programme in July 2014, a year after assuming office. It was the boldest steps by his administration to weed out ghost workers and reduce the ballooning wage bill. About 12,000 ghost workers were consuming Sh1.8 billion a year; they have been exorcised. However, the plan was shelved to retain favour with the electorate as the country geared up for the General Election in August. The Public Service Commission has been implementing the report piecemeal by allowing gradual retirement. That will change starting in February. "The report was not implemented in full because some recommendations have been overtaken by events. For instance, some employees were to retire in three years’ time, a process which is going on,” PSC chairperson Margaret Kobia said. Kobia had said the PSC had already started replacing civil service staff who have retired in the last 24 months. However, the PSC has been silent on staff declared redundant or who are non-skilled but performing skilled jobs — a majority category targeted in eliminations. Yesterday PSC communications officer Victor Achola said the CARPS report is still with the Department of Public Service. "We are like any other stakeholder but DPS should give an update on the report's status," he told the Star. Finally, the government is ready to strike off payroll staff. “In aggregate, implementation of the recommended optimal staffing levels would entail an overall staff reduction of 38,858,” the CARPS report says. The survey, carried out through biometric registration, showed the total number of public servants registered at both levels of government was 199,921 — against optimum staffing of 161,063. Of this figure, 72,923 (36 per cent) are in the national government, while 126,998 (64 per cent) are in county governments. Kenya’s total public wage bill — including ministries, departments, agencies, commissions, the disciplined forces and independent constitutional offices — is estimated Sh627 billion. That is more than 12 per cent of GDP, compared to the global best practices level of seven per cent. The President has warned senior government officials they will lose their advisers and consultants accused of consuming billions of taxpayers' money on non-core jobs. “I would like to see decisive action taken against public servants under your supervision who deliberately deprive Kenyans of service delivery," Kenyatta said in Diani. Last week DP Ruto also said the government will sack aides to Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries to reduce the wage bill. “Those public servants hiring advisers to do the job they are employed or elected to do must be ready to go home because this has contributed to the mess in the wage bill we find ourselves in,” he said. "How can a Cabinet Secretary have five to six advisers? It simply means you do not know what you are doing. Just resign. Some of us, when we were ministers, didn’t have advisers," he noted. The retrenchment is said to conform to the government’s commitment to the IMF, which has reduced its forecast of Kenya’s growth this year to 4.9 per cent from 5.5 per cent. Click here for the latest political news  