The wage bill is a fallacy of sorts, because it is part of human development, by way of growth, to go up. Inflation is a factor. As much as you may control it, it continues to bite, because other factors outside this country will continue having an impact. The inching up of the wage bill is obvious not because people are misbehaving but because that is part of the theory of development. For example, the wage bill must go up when there is a corresponding increase in productivity. Let us not just demonise the wage bill and shout about it, something that has marked the last four years of the Jubilee regime. Former President Mwai Kibaki found himself in the same position, what did he do? He left the wage bill where it was and pulled up the revenue. That is how he completely modernised the KRA operation system, such that the wage bill was left where it was but revenue was increased. The current approach of layoffs is wrong, because it wants to leave the revenue where it is and reduce the wage bill, it cannot work. The earlier we vacate this thinking the better, and adopt the concept of Kibaki of increasing the revenue, being tight on taxation. Attempting to reduce the workforce in the public sector won’t work; it will be self-defeating. In 1999, they started retrenching to get a leaner public service and 45,000 people were sent home and it achieved nothing. The Hudama Centres were not there, drivers, support staff, clerks were all gone. It became impossible to deliver services to the Kenyan people. The same government, together with the World Bank, later found the fallacy of that approach and changed and started to advertise for the same positions. The government is there for service delivery, it never worked and it will not work even now, to layoff people. You will be surprised by the price involved in trying to retrench; you have to pay people. If I talk only of the county governments, we have pension and pay bills that have accumulated to about Sh50 billion and now they are talking of looking for some Sh3 billion to retrench people. An employer who thinks of layoff must first make sure the actual right of pension is available, because that is what the worker first carries home. The writer is the County Government Workers’ Union General Secretary  Read:Wage bill to hit Sh650 billion in 2018, Sarah Serem says as term ends For more political stories click here:https://www.the-star.co.ke  