President Uhuru Kenyatta has praised the police for being firm during the August 8 and October 26 elections. This comes amid claims police used extreme force on NASA supporters over the past four months. NASA published 26 names and photos of the victims of police brutality in the Standard on November 24. A procession to welcome leader Raila Odinga was greeted with bullets, tear gas and water cannon, as police battled supporters who defied a ban to receive him at JKIA. Read : How seven year old Mutinda was shot dead on Uhuru’s big day “The President has noted that, notwithstanding the intense political competition and the unprecedented repeat presidential polls, the service remained firm in executing its mandate,” police operations director Benson Kibui said. In a letter dated November 30, Uhuru commended the police for carrying out their duties in a “professional way” and in accordance with the law. “I have been directed by the President to convey his commendation to officers of all ranks involved in various stages of the elections for the high degree of professionalism and dedication to duty displayed during the entire period,” Kibui said. He commended all officers for their selfless dedication to duty in “covering the 2017 electoral process effectively”. “Let us, therefore, keep up the positive spirit in the service of our motherland. You are, therefore, directed to convey this message to all officers under your respective commands.” Read : IPOA probes boy's death, KOT slam police for beating women in NASA demos The letter is also referenced as “Secpol” police code for a secret document that should be circulated only on a need-to-know basis. Kibui sent the letter to regional and formation commanders countrywide. OnNovember 24, Raila dared Jubilee to arrest him if he is the stumbling block to the country’s progress, “instead of killing innocent Kenyans advocating their democratic right”. He spoke during a fundraiser for victims. “We are gathered here for a very sad occasion. We have come to collect money to bury very young people,” Raila said. “If Raila is the problem, arrest him arrest him. Take him to prison. Take him to jail. And if you want to shoot, shoot Raila!” Police have been accused of being responsible for scores of deaths between August and November. During protests on Tuesday, seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda was shot dead in Pipeline estate, Nairobi. Police said thugs were responsible for his death. In August, six-month-old Samantha Pendo died after police clobbered her during police raids in Kisumu, while eight-year-old Stephanie Moraa was shot dead in Mathare. An Ipoa probe into Pendo’s death recommended disciplinary action against senior officers. The agency did not, however, find any individual police officer culpable. Click here for the latest political news 