Operations at Dadaab refugee camp have resumed after days of standoff following protests by residents over contentious issues. According to Dadaab deputy county commissioner Harun Kamau, operations resumed after a series of meetings between the host community, UNHCR and government officials and the local leadership. In attendance were UNHCR officials led by Daddab sub-office operation officer Don Bosco,local leaders led by area MP Mohamed Dahiye,MCAs and other leaders. He said they got breakthrough after most of contentious issues have been resolved and agreed upon by all stakeholders including local political leaders. “We have reached an agreement after a day's long meeting. Majority of the concerns have been addressed but going forward we need to further engage to ensure that normalcy returns,” Kamau said. “Termination of employment, which was one of the main issues, has been put on hold for further talks to allow operations to continue as usual,” Kamau added. Operations were paralyzed for more than one week after the host community protested following termination of employment of some of UNHCR employees and claims of environmental depletion by the refugees among other issues. The demonstrators who blocked the entrance, claimed the agency have ignored their plight for the last 26 years, causing them untold suffering. Speaking during the marking of Jamhuri celebrations, Garissa Governor Ali Korane said refugees and host community have been living in co-existence for the last 26 years, noting that the current stalemate was brought about by reduced number of refugees due to repatriation. “As we engage UNHCR we would like to urge our people to remain calm since the county and national governments will get a lasting solution to current standoff,” Korane said. The star has learnt that local leaders including MPs and MCAs met with UNHCR officials from Geneva who brokered a deal. Speaking to the press, area MP Mohamed Dahiye thanked the locals fro heeding to their leader’ advice to stop the demonstrations as a lasting solution sought. “On behalf of my colleagues,I want to thank the people of Dadaab for maintaining peace, law and order even as they went about demonstrating. As the host community we want to make it very clear that we don’t have any problem with our brothers and sisters from Somalia whom we have hosted for years. We only had issues with UNHCR and they have promised to address them as first as possible,” Dahiye said. He urged UNHCR to move with speed and address the key issues that had been raised by the locals.            