Senator Margaret Kamar of Uasin Gishu has backed calls to have results of this year's KCSE exams investigated owing to mass failure by candidates. Kamar said the committees on education in both Parliament and Senate should quickly investigate if there was any problem with the results that have sparked uproar from KNUT and the opposition NASA. Read: We'll summon 'irrational' Matiang'i to explain mass failures in KCSE - Gem MP Odhiambo said it's a tragedy that almost half of the candidates scored D+ and below and may not have the opportunity to pursue higher education. "We must know what happened and not allow ourselves to ruin the lives of more than 500,000 children who did the exams and now have a bleak future", said Kamar who was speaking in Eldoret Saturday. The legislator said many if the mass failures were genuine then the causes must also be known so that solutions can be found," said Kamar. Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion and opposition NASA leader Raila Odinga are among those who have demanded that the exam results be recalled for investigations. Also read: Results for 10 schools withheld over exam malpractice Sossion has claimed the government interfered in the exams and that the Kenya National Examinations Council does not operate independently. Kamar, however, said she fully supports measures taken by CS for education Fred Matiangi to deal with exam cheating in national examinations. "We are happy with the new measures dealing with cheating in examinations but we should not allow the mass failure of candidates," said Kamar. The National Parents Association has, however, said its impressed with the quality and credibility of this year's KCPE exams results. Chairman of the Kenya National Parents Association Nicholas Maiyo said they are happy with the work done by Education CS Fred Matiangi to ensure the credibility of national exams. Maiyo says complete elimination of examination cheating proved that the results were credible. "We only need to meet as stakeholders and discuss the problems that led to mass failures", said Maiyo. Read: Mass failures: What happened? Did all schools cheat?   Click here for the latest political news 