The High court has ordered a recount of votes cast in about 400 polling centers following the petition challenging the election of Cyprian Awiti as Homa Bay governor. Justice Joseph Karanja increased the number from the 392 that former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga - the petitioner, sought in his application for scrutiny. The county's election was conducted in at least 1,062 polling centres. Magwanga and his running mate in the August election Joshua Orero have challenged Awiti's win citing massive irregularities and results manipulation. He filed an application in the court to seek recount and scrutiny of votes cast at the centers arguing they were the most affected by the electoral malpractices. Also read: Two ROs admit errors in Homa Bay governor results  On Thursday, Justice Karanja said results from more polling centres, which included in Karachuonyo, Homa Bay Town, Suba South, Rangwe and Kasipul constituencies, will be re-looked into. "The addition is in accordance with an earlier ruling that scrutiny would be done for votes cast at polling centers initially mentioned by the petitioner and any other centers which the court may feel necessary for the exercise," the judge said. The judge said the recount will be done for ten days from January 8, 2018. "The recount exercise will be presided over by the deputy registrar of the court. But ten days for the exercise will exclude weekends," Karanja directed. The centres are among them Kobuya, Kowuor and Kidowa polling centers in Karachuonyo constituency. Mititi polling center in Kasipul constituency was also added. Others include Magare, Got Rabuor and Wiga primary in Homa Bay Town constituency. In Suba South, votes cast at Kigoto, Utere and Olando will be recounted while those of Rangwe include Nyakwadha, Nyandiwa, and Olare. During the recount, each party in the petition will be represented by three agents and a lawyer. Some of the factors which will be considered first are the credibility of the ballot boxes and their seals. They will also ensure the credibility of the ballot papers used during the exercise. "All security features of the ballot papers must be considered during the recount. We expect a report from the deputy registrar by January 24," the Judge directed. After the August 8 general election, IEBC declared Awiti the winner with 210,173 votes against Magwanga who came second with 189,060 votes. Read: Homa Bay High Court allows votes scrutiny in Magwanga petition   