Knut boss Wilson Sossion and his Kuppet counterpart Omboko Milemba are among 11 trade unionists set to lose their positions in the unions after being listed as state officers. The listing follows the unionists' success in winning various political seats. Sossion was nominated to Parliament by the ODM Party while Milemba won the Emuhaya parliamentary seat in the August 8 general election. In a gazette notice dated December 13, Labour Cabinet Secretary Phylis Kandie said the unionists have contravened the law which prohibit full-time state officers from participating in any other gainful employment. “It is notified for general information of the public that the following persons, being state officers as per the provisions of article 77 and 260 of the Constitution, cease to hold office immediately as trade union officials in their respective unions,” Kandie says in the notice. Among those affected Governors Mutahi Kahiga, who served as executive secretary for the Nyeri branch of the Kenya National Union of Teachers and Baringo's Stanley Kiptis. Others are Kuppet assistant national treasurer Ronald Tonui, who won the Bomet Central MP seat. The court said MPs spend a significant time undertaking parliamentary duties besides attending and participating in sessions in the National Assembly. He was last year barred by the court from participating in the union elections because of his position as MP. Bungoma Women Representative Catherine Wambilianga is also set to lose her position as Kuppet gender secretary as is Nyatike MP Tom Odege who is the secretary general of the Union of Kenya Civil Servants. Mulei Mwalowa, John Mwamusi, Florence Bore, Richard Cheserem have also been ordered to vacate there positions in unions. Contacted for comment, Milemba said they are contacting their lawyers for legal interpretation. "I have heard that she has taken us off the register," Milemba told the Star. Set-pacer In September last year, Employment and Labour Relations Court ruled that Bomet Central MP Ronald Kiprotich Tonui was not qualified to contest in the elections for the position with Kuppet as he served as an MP. Tonui had argued that he is not in full-time employment in the National Assembly and therefore was not barred by the Constitution. Further, he argued that as a teacher by profession, he is qualified under the Labour Relations Act to vie for any position in Kuppet. However, in rejecting his argument, the court also observed that Kuppet’s constitution and rules provide that the National Executive Board, comprising 10 elected national officials, including the assistant national treasurer, shall work full time. The court further argued that MPs are expected to expend significant time undertaking parliamentary business in committees, quite apart from attending and participating in sessions of the full House. Click here for the latest political news