Champions Stray Lions ended their 2017 Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super League campaign unbeaten following a 7-wicket win over Obuya Academy. Both teams were without most of their key players, who are in Uganda for the newly launched Afro Twenty20 cricket tournament. But despite that, Stray Lions’ performance was still top class as they maintained their 100 percent run. After being put into field, Stray Lions, who had bagged the league title last weekend with a win over Nairobi Gymkhana, took only 20.1 overs to end Obuya’s stay in the middle with only 80 runs scored. Sports Personality of the Year Association (Soya) nominee, Abishek Chidambaran, once again had a good show with the bowl, claiming five wickets as Obuya Academy, who were without the Obuya brothers, David and Kennedy, struggled to create partnerships that would have rattled their opponents. A second wicket stand of 32 runs between opener Kevin Kimutai and Aveet Desai was the best in the Obuya’s inning. From 35 for 1 after 4.5 overs, the home team opened up the floodgates in their inning and Chidambaran and company capitalized on all opportunities that came their way. Apart from Kimutai (17) and Desai (10), Charles Obuya (19) was the other batsmen with double digits. None of the other batsmen could get past five runs, with four of them scoring ducks. Club secretary, Thota Srinivas, who had not batted in all the matches he had played for his club this season, was handed the opening slot. Together with Chidambaran, they put on 12 in seven overs before the U-19 all-rounder was trapped leg-before-wicket (lbw) on six. Srinivas was back to the pavilion three balls later after scoring three. Prashant Srinivas didn’t last long too in the middle as he was caught-leaving them on 22 for 3. Jimmy Kamande, also playing his first match for the senior team this season, and Nithin Arvind, however, took the match away from the league debutants with an unbeaten fourth wicket stand of 59. It was a sad season-ender for Desai as all the three wickets were on the losing end. Elsewhere, Swamibapa finished the season second without bowling any ball after Kanbis managed only 19 points away to Cutchi Leva. The two teams had tied on points prior to the match and with Kongonis having handed Swamibapa a walkover, Kanbis needed to collect all the 20 maximum points to stay level with Swamibapa but were only able to get 19 after posting 271.