Elected leaders from Kisii and Nyamira counties have launched a new bid to unite the Abagusii community.   On Thursday last week, the leaders held a meeting in Nairobi where they promised to unite the community and push for a common agenda. The meeting that was chaired by Kisii senator Sam Ongeri was convened by North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko and Kisii Woman representative Janet Ong’era. The meeting brought together MPs from both NASA and Jubilee. Independents were also present. Nyamoko and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka said they want to forge a unity of purpose that will break all political boundaries. “The community agenda will be our first priority, regardless of our political differences,” Nyamoko told the Star on phone. Nyamoko said they will bring on board Governors John Nyagarama (Nyamira) and James Ongwae (Kisii) and all professional civil servants from the region. “We intend to have civil servants in the next meeting. We want to bring everybody on board,” Nyamoko said. Nyamoko said the leaders’ agenda is not political but added that politics will come in at the right time. He said they intend to woo opposition leaders to work with government for the sake of development. “We want to work together and push for our community’s agenda, despite our different political affiliations,” Onyonka said. He said the first meeting was to bring the leaders together for familiarisation. “We have never met to know and understand each other since we were elected,” Onyonka said. MPs who attended the Thursday meeting include Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Zadock Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu), Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Innocent Obiri (Bobasi), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) and Nyamira Woman representative Jerusha Momanyi. Nyamoko said MPs who did not attend sent apologies.  He said Samuel Arama (Nakuru West) and Simba Arati (Dagoretti North) would also be brought on board in the next meeting. Political analyst David Omato welcomed the move but expressed skepticism about the agenda. “I don’t have details of the meeting, but if their agenda is development, then it is good,” Omato said.