TITLE: Gardening in Eastern Africa AUTHOR: Kenya Horticultural Society LENGTH: 677 pages GENRE: Encyclopedia PUBLISHED: October 2017   The new edition of Gardening
in Eastern Africa is finally out — 83 years after the first and 17 years
after the last. At 677 pages, it is a perfect Christmas gift, every page a
treasure. I have four editions of this book. To read them is to slow down, look
differently at the earth around your home, and marvel at what can be.  The first edition of Gardening
in East Africa came out in 1934 under the aegis, like this latest one, of
the Kenya Horticultural Society. It “proved a success and sold out after two
years,” according to the second edition (1939), a copy of which came to me from
my father-in law. From Ireland, Andrew Pike was a shy, devout, good man who served
in Tanganyika from 1926 to 1959, but I always found the book hard going.  Loaded with Latin plant names, it is full of impossible
instructions. The chapter on Veranda and Pot Plants, for instance, suggests “watering
once a week with the dilute solution of boma manure obtained by keeping a small
bag of the manure in a four gallon drum of water”. It also notes encouragingly
that “all ferns respond well to an occasional watering with a solution of one
ounce of ammonium sulphate”.   PREVIOUS EDITIONS Where does one even begin? What is ammonium sulphate and
where would one get it if one had the time? The past is a different country,
and it was a book from a vastly different place — a time-rich, land-rich era
of non-working wives and no email, where you could “send” for rose bushes, and
where having a smart vegetable garden was a standard part of life. The fourth edition is jollier. It has 22 gorgeous illustrations
of plants by Joy Adamson of the Born Free fame and an introduction by HB Sharpe, a
flamboyant character who gardened wherever he went in his long career of
postings around colonial Kenya. If you love your plants, “they will know and respond,”
he explains in his over-the-top style. If you don’t, “you will give up in
disgust or die of a broken heart or ‘dudu mania’, the madness caused by insect
pests.”  He then lists the gardens he built. “My first was in Mombasa
around a small bungalow. When the rains broke, I planted all kinds of annuals.
There was no colour scheme or design. By January, I had a bright garden full of
bloom. My next was in Jubaland in 1916.
It appeared that the troops would be there for many months. I wangled some
money and sent for seed. I had the King’s African Rifles clean ground near some
mangoes and coconut palms and got two Sudanese askaris as gardeners. By June, we
had masses of beans, lettuce, spinach, beetroot, peas and radishes.” This edition was published in 1957. Rather amazingly given
the year, there is no suggestion that Kenya was in the midst of a liberation struggle.
And the book makes awkward assumptions about who Kenya belongs to. But Sharpe’s
writing makes you hungry and want to rush out and plant. It’s all trial and
error and not so much ammonium sulphate. Thank you, Major. Then there was a gap until 1995, when, realising that Gardening in East Africa had been out of
print for almost 40 years, the Kenyan Horticultural Society, still in
existence, brought out a new edition. This included contributions from Asian
and Africans and a greater endorsement of indigenous plants. The world had
changed.   CRUCIAL NEW CONTENT This brings us to the latest edition, now called Gardening in Eastern Africa, not East
Africa. And what a joy it is. Much more ecological than all the previous
versions, it has a chapter on permaculture and organic gardening, a fierce
chapter on alien invasive species, chapters on useful dudus in the garden, and
a chapter on medicinal plants.  The chapter on climate is more than rainfall and temperature
figures (although those matter a lot); it tackles climate change. Then there is
a vital chapter on “waterwise” gardening, which is utterly crucial now. No one can
water their garden with a clear conscience when Ndakaini, the dam that supplies
Nairobi, stands at just 52 per cent full at the end of the October-December rains, when
it should be 79 per cent.  The authors of this chapter recommend rainwater harvesting,
re-use of grey water, and moisture conservation by, for instance, “dense
planting so that top growth shades the ground and a microclimate of cooler air
is built up”. A favorite for me was a chapter on gardening in Uganda — because it makes such an important point. Your garden is a chance to promote
biodiversity. Kenyan ecologist and entomologist Dino Martins picks this up in
his chapter on gardening for butterflies. “One can readily turn a garden into a
haven. Even a small garden can serve as an important refuge, breeding area and
microhabitat.” He recommends bringing “additional structure and
biodiversity to a Kei apple hedge by sowing into it other plants, such as the
pretty fast-growing, yellow-flowered Bauhinia
tormentosa, and the pale blue or white-flowered Plumbago, which will add color and serve as food plants for caterpillars.”
What good ideas! With many East African frogs endangered, it can also be an
act of resistance to create a home for them too. Here, Gardening in Eastern Africa steps up with a chapter on Water
Gardens. According to the Kenyan Wildlife Service, among the at-risk are the Delicate spiny reed
frog, Forest frog, Long reed frog, Montane tree frog, Mount Kenya frog, Painted
reed frog, Shimba hills banana and reed frog and Du toit's torrent frog. Also of concern is the Nairobi toad. If you are a person who is mad keen on a particular type of
plant, a collector perhaps, you will not be disappointed. There are separate
chapters on palms, cycads, roses, orchids, the achingly trendy and cute
succulent, and bougainvilleas, the last revised by Josephat Muindi. This book was a labour of love, and we have a lot to thank
the Kenya Horticultural Society (KHS) for. In a sensitive introduction, Peter
David Paterson and Vishy Talwar, the two chairs since 2012, recognise that our
gardens are getting smaller and that we need kitchen gardens for small
households, including for highrises. They conclude that gardens are “no longer
just nice to have — they are essential. Pollution levels are dangerous and we
all need to embrace that plants help against some of the biggest environmental
threats we face”. This is a
book that will last you a life time, so it is worth the slightly hefty price. Remember — it’s huge. You might also become a member of the KHS. I have been to their
shows and noticed something. People look happy when they are looking at plants.   Cathy
Watson is Chief of Programme Development at the World Agroforestry Centre. The
book is on sale at Text Book Centre Kijabe St; Bookstop Ltd at Yaya Centre;
and Westlands Sundries Bookshop in Village Market. Price ranges between Sh5,800
and Sh6,000. The KHS is at 0721 549720 and garden@gardeningkenya.or .