City Government is planning to revise bylaws in order to bring efficiency in waste management. The city has been grappling with garbage menace with the county government blaming business owners. The business owners, mostly the hotel operators on the other hand have blamed the county government insisting that it is sleeping on the job. In a statement released by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Saturday, the county now plans to tighten the laws. It is also considering partnering with other players to clean the city including existing community initiatives such as Constituency Development Fund Committees and other Community- based programmes in raising public awareness and participation in waste management. “We shall launch a sustained, education and communication campaign informing  residents on the importance of managing waste properly and its importance to their health, the environment and cleanliness of the city,” read the statement . In addition Sonko will further seek support of other public-sector stakeholders such as members of the provincial administration like Chiefs and District Officers. The Governor added that to enhance the recovery of waste, his government shall form and put into use formal structures for its engagement with community groups and other stakeholders in waste management and specifically those who recycle and re-use waste. “To control the generation of Waste, we shall also formulate and put into action operational guidelines to support separation of waste at source in all parts of the city,” read the statement. He pointed out that his government will Provide incentives to community groups and other organizations involved in recycling and re-use of waste. Sonko urged Nairobi residents that it their collective responsibility to ensure that their streets and neighborhood are clean. On Thursday, Water, environment, energy and natural resources CEC Emma Muthoni flagged off more than 40 garbage trucks at Uhuru Park. This comes after some members of the county assembly last week, threatened to lead their ward resident in demonstrations If no action would be taken concerning garbage collection. The county MCAs had cried foul over piled up garbage in their wards stating there was no effort from the County government to end the menace. Over the weekend clean up activities took place across various sub counties within Nairobi. Huruma along Juja Road , Kirinyaga Road, Mathare, Railways, Kiamaiko,Jonsaga,Ngara and Nairobi's central business district were among the places where Sonko Rescue Team cleaned up Clean Up and unclogging of sewage and drainage systems took place in Eastleigh area in Kamkunji Constituency and Kasarani. Most of the drainage trenches were blocked as result of polythene bags and waste products being dumped. Sonko highlighted that his government is working on installing a giant recycling plant at Dandora dumpsite. This week Nairobi’s CBD area is set to be installed by litter bins which will be placed in certain places.  