Kwale residents have protested against Base Titanium's further exploration of minerals in the area. They are from Kilole, Zigira, Magaoni, Fihoni, Gazi, Mwandimu, Mwaloya, Majikuko, Bumamani, Masindeni and Madongoni in Kinondo location. Through their representative Said Mnyeto, they said they protested on Wednesday mainly because they have not benefited so far. They added it would be unjust for the company to explore other areas and fear they will be relocated to Samburu location in Kinango constituency should the company get a licence for more activities. “We must form a committee... those who have agreed that exploration takes place should tell us why they are going against our will,” said Mnyeto. The representative said they had written to Base Titanium requesting an environment impact assessment report but that it was not provided. Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu, in a meeting with the residents in October last year, confirmed the ministry had approved the company’s request to explore the area but had not issued a licence for the extraction of minerals. He said before the license is issued, a series of procedures must be followed, including getting consent form individual land owners. But residents have maintained they will not allow any exploration. “Kinondo residents have not gotten anything from Base Titanium. Had we benefited, we would be asking the company to start mining. We don’t want praises about having minerals. We also want job opportunities and lots of development. Short of that, no exploration will go on here,” said Hamisi Chabindo. Area chief Ali Riga said reports about residents' relocation to Kinango were unfounded but confirmed that exploration was to take place. He urged residents to continue giving their views so a conclusion is reached. Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori urged the people to continue fighting for their rights but adhere to the constitution. He said he will make it known that they do not want exploration and mining carried out. “When my people are wronged I must stand up to defend them” he said. But Kwale investors earlier condemned for his criticism of the mining company saying it was motivated by selfishness. Dori called for demonstrations against the company saying locals had been denied jobs. But investor Shomali Mohammed accused him of fighting the miner because it denied him a tender to transport workers. More on this: MP slammed for attacking Base Titanium Click here for the latest political news