Following a dismal show at the Cape Town Sevens, Shujaa have been placed in a tricky Pool ‘B’ where they face Argentina, France and Wales in the Sydney leg next month. Kenya will open their campaign against Argentina, renew rivalry with the French, whom they lost to 21-14 in Cape Town, before ending the pool matches against a plucky Welsh side. Cape Town winners New Zealand face off with Fiji, Samoa and Russia in Pool ‘A’. Champions South Africa have date with England, Spain and a yet to be identified team in Pool ‘C’ with Canada, USA, Australia and Scotland competing in Pool ‘D’. Innocent Simiyu’s side have blown hot and cold so far, bagging 10 points in Dubai and a paltry three in South Africa after beating neighbours and rivals Uganda 24-14 in the 13th and 14th place playoff. In the match against Uganda, Dan Sikuta brushed four defenders to land at the centre with Brian Tanga adding the conversion for a 7-0 lead. Jeffrey Oluoch was sent to the sin bin but Uganda could not capitalise on the numerical advantage and Oluoch turned from villain to hero scoring the second try which Tanga converted for a 14-0 lead at the interval. On resumption, Uganda regrouped and Adrian Kasito reduced the deficit with a well taken try which was converted to reduce the margin to 14-7 . Solomon Okia was next to cross the whitewash as he barged over the line with Kasito adding the extra two points to level the scores at 14-14. Kenya responded immediately with Herman Humwa playing in Samuel Muregi to cross the line for an unconverted try and a 19-14 lead. Oscar Ouma then put the icing on the cake following sustained pressure to give Kenya the bragging rights. Kenya had earlier beaten Scotland 33-12 in the semis. Here, Tanga opened the scoring and duly converted his try for a 7-0 lead. Oluoch scored the second try after being played in by Arthur Owira for a 12-0 lead. The Scots reduced the margin through Jamie Farndale for a 12-5 score heading to the break. On resumption, Shujaa dominated with Tanga, Nelson Oyoo and debutant Muregi scoring to seal the result. The team was expected back last night for a one-week break.      