Fifteen people narrowly escaped death after the bus they were travelling in crashed into a lorry on the Nairobi-Nyeri Highway near Blue Post Hotel in Thika on Wednesday. Seven people including the driver sustained serious injuries and were rushed to Thika Level Five Hospital. Others were taken to the facility for minor injuries and shock. The bus that belongs to UMOWA Sacco was headed to Ekalakala from Nairobi. Witnesses said the accident was caused by a breakdown vehicle that was towing a lorry that had crashed at the same area.  A lorry that was involved in the accident, December 6, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU "[The breakdown driver] was pulling the lorry carelessly without placing safety signs on the road, knowing very well this is a highway," said Philip Kimemia, a boda boda operator. He said the bus, which was speeding, rammed into the lorry from behind. The driver of the breakdown rushed from the scene after the accident. "The [bus] driver has been trapped and a grinder had to be used to cut through the wreckage to save him," said another boda boda rider Philip Wamichwe.  The lorry that was being towed by the breakdown services vehicle, December 6, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU Others accused the bus driver for speeding as he was trying to evade traffic that extended from Gatitu Junction to Makongeni area. "These buses are known for their speed. The driver would have slowed down when he saw the lorry in front of him," one witness said. A passenger who escaped unhurt told The Star that the bus was avoiding the traffic jam.  Residents mill around the wreackage of the matatu after the accident, December 6, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU "We suddenly heard a loud bang and the next thing I realised was that the bus was reversing towards the river. Again I heard those who were in the front sears screaming and calling for help," the passenger said. It took police five hours to clear the scene of the accident as traffic continued to build up. In June 2015, two Moi Primary School pupils died at the same spot following a multiple car crash involving 12 vehicles.  Traffic jam on the Nairobi-Nyeri highway after the accident, December 6, 2017. /JOHN KAMAU   Click here for the latest political stories