Tucked away in a suburb in Lower Kabete lies an eco-friendly workshop where energy saving jikos, charcoal ovens, charcoal-making kilns, barbeque grills, space heaters and charcoal-coated seed balls are made. The three founders of Cookswell Jikos — Teddy, Suzie and Nyokabi — derive their passion for sustainable energy solutions from their father — Dr Maxwell Kinyanjui — who was instrumental in designing and creating  the Kenya Cermic Jiko. The KCJ is an upgrade of the traditional jiko. It has a ceramic liner, making it up to 50 per cent more efficient in fuel consumption than traditional all-metal alternatives, Teddy says.  Kinyanjui was an urban planning professor at the University of Nairobi. The Star toured Cookwell's workshop to find out more about the energy saving products. As we enter the workshop, we are welcomed by the aroma of spicy sausages and cookies being grilled and baked in Cookwell appliances. We are just in time for breakfast. Teddy says he and his family are passionate about environmental conservation. Although he and his two sisters, who recently returned from the US, do the day-to-day running of the business, he says his mother is the real boss and makes the major decisions. Cookswell Jikos was started in 2008. The company makes a variety of energy saving jikos, ovens, space heaters and charcoal-making kilns for domestic and commercial use. The word about their range has spread as far as the Netherlands, from where they recently got an order. "We believe in incorporating the needs of the consumer, so we are always adding elements to our products," Teddy says. Cookswell made a grill with a side board to their range after one client said he wanted a dual-purpose product.  “Our products are designed and handcrafted in Kenya by professional Kenyan artisans,” Teddy says.   ELIMINATING MIDDLEMEN Cookswell has also created charcoal-coated acacia seeds which it gives to clients who buy their jikos free of charge to plant and some years down the line, the trees can be used to make charcoal. The seeds they distribute are called seed balls. Indigenous tree seeds are placed in a protective capsule of charcoal dust and nutritious binders. "Just throw them wherever you go and acacia trees will grow. There's no need to dig." Teddy says the seeds are an easy way to increase tree cover. He would like to partner with the government and perhaps have employees in the Air Force throw the seeds from planes and helicopters. The idea behind the technology is that people grow trees so they have a continuous supply of fuel. The acacia trees take seven years to mature and people can then harvest branches and make their own charcoal. The acacia tree seeds are certified by the Kenya Forestry Research Institute. Their charcoal-making kilns can make about one-and-a-half bags a day. “If you have a small nyama choma joint, you will probably spend Sh2,000 on charcoal a day, but it you buy one of our kilns for about Sh14,000, you can use twigs, branches, maize cobs, coconut husks and other woody biomass to make charcoal and that saves you money. We are trying to cut the chain one has to go through before getting charcoal – the middlemen and others – and allow the end user to create their own product. Why not plant your own trees, make your own charcoal and use it to cook meat, bake bread and so on. That’s what sustainable energy is about.” Cookswell, in collaboration with the Tamarind Group, has established The Woodlands 2000 Trust to promote dryland commercial agroforestry tree growing around Kenya and East Africa for greater wood fuel security.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY When we ask whether the family has intellectual property rights for their products and innovations, Nyokabi says no. "At first we thought it was crazy not to do so, but that is how our father was, he was more interested in ensuring people adopt environmentally friendly ways of living, than the commercial side of things, so we carried on with that," she says. Nyokabi says the family's main priority is encouraging people to adopt environmentally friendly ways of living. That is probably why you can find KCJs and similar space heater along roads being made by jua kali workers in makeshift workshops.  Teddy says he is more concerned about imitators getting the quality right - "if you are going to copy, you should at least maintain the quality."  Cookswell created frog-shaped space heaters and one day driving on Ngong Road, he realised the artisans had copied the design. “My first though was to take them to court, but we realised that was not feasible. This market is pretty open-sourced. I thought it’s much more beneficial if we all just work together.” In Kenya, the majority of households use jikos for cooking and wood is the main energy source. Cookswell hopes to help address the deforestation crisis with their jikos which reduce cooking time and emit less gas than with other types of stoves.  “Cookswell Jikos advocates for the sustainable production, management and utilization of wood fuels as one of the many renewable energy resources for East Africa’s cooking needs.” The price of their charcoal ovens range from Sh10,000 to Sh65,000. The cheapest being what is named the 'bachelor oven', which is portable which can be used to roast a chicken, potatoes and mini pizzas. It is ideal for a group of up to five friends who want to travel and pitch camp for a meal. There are two, three and four-level ovens and the biggest oven is suitable for businesses and can serve up to 40 people. “Wood fuel energy independence starts by planting trees. You can grow your own free charcoal and firewood by planting and taking care of the tree seeds you receive with your jiko. We advocate for organic and holistically planned agroforestry derived food, fuel and fodder production. Trees of the acacia species, when planted using a planned agro forestry manner, can yield huge benefits to your land. With good care, in less than 10 years you can begin to prune the crown and branches of the tree for fuelwood and continue to harvest branches every two to three years and you can even eventually harvest a final timber beam in 25 years,” Teddy says. Cookswell has a museum of jikos collected from across Africa and of course there is the original ceramic jiko created by the late Kinyanjui. There are also jikos from Ghana, Mali, Senegal and Sierra Leone. Cookswell has moved from selling one jiko a month when it started to about one every day. We complete the tour by munching spicy sausages from the giraffe-shaped barbeque.   SIDE BAR WHAT IS SEED BOMBING? Seed bombing, or in some cases aerial reforestation, is a technique of introducing vegetation to land by throwing or dropping seed balls. Often, seed bombing projects are done with arid or off-limits (for example, privately owned) land.   Seed bombing is also widely used in Africa, where they are put in barren or simply grassy areas. With technology expanding, the contents of a seed bomb are now placed in a biodegradable container and "bombed" grenade-style onto the land. As the sprout grows, the container biodegrades into the soil. The process is usually done as a large-scale project with hundreds dropped in a single area at any one time. Provided enough water, adequate sunlight, and low competition from existing flora and fauna, seed-bombed barren land could be host to new plants in as little as a month.   Seedballs have use in nearly any region where plants can grow: for reseeding ecosystems into areas of man-made deserts, avoiding seed eating insects and animals and protecting seeds until rains fall to soak the clay ball and stimulate the seeds. Seeds contained in such balls then germinate in ideal conditions for each climate/region.   Aerial seed bombing The balls each contain an acacia xanthopholae (yellow fever tree) seed at their centre encased in a hard capsule of charcoal dust, binders and nutrients to see them through safely to the next rains. Grass seed can be included as 'companions'.  What is a seed ball?  A seed ball is simply that - a seed inside of a ball of charcoal dust mixed with some nutritious binders. Cookswell Jikos Ltd is focussed on helping reduce the costs of planting indigenous plant species (mostly trees) in Kenya.    The biochar coating of the ball helps protect the seed within from predators including birds, rodents and insects and extreme temperatures until the rains arrive.  Once soaked, the seedball will help retain and prolong a moist environment around the seed to encourage germination.   Cookswell uses salvaged charcoal dust from urban charcoal vending sites in Nairobi.   DOS AND DON’TS WITH SEED BALLS  1.     Do look for proactive microhabitats for your seed balls. Focus on areas likely to conserve moisture and places wildlife and livestock can't access easily.   2.     Do foster vacant or degraded land and fill empty urban spaces with trees and flowers.   3.     Do obtain permission from the land managers first if you'd like to reseed in a conservation area.   4.     Do ensure the site is not due for imminent development and that the plants will thrive there.   5.     Do your best to match plant and tree species to their natural environmental types, for example, highland, dryland, lakeshore and swampland.  6.     Don't throw seed balls at people or windows. Ensure that nothing or nobody will be damaged or harmed by your flying seed balls.   7.     Don't interfere with food crops by spreading seed balls across agricultural fields.   8.     Don't throw them on land with obvious inadequate growing conditions. If there is insufficient water, light and no obvious soil for the plants to anchor themselves, they will most likely eventually perish.   9.     Don't take seed balls out of Kenya or you may contravene phytosanitation and biosafety laws.   10.                        Don't be impatient. Some seeds germinate only after several rainy seasons. Growing trees is a noble act of kindness, it takes time and perseverance.   Adapted from Cookswell through seedballskenya.com   CONTACTS: Facebook: Cookswell Energy Saving Jikos Website: cookswell.co.ke Mobile: 0700380009