Eight stages have been introduced to the fourth circuit of the 2017 Champaign 4-by-4 Challenge season set to roar off in Kipeto, Kajiado County between December 16 and 17. Over 28 teams have already confirmed participation in the adrenaline-packed event. The 28 teams will compete in three different groups with 10featuring in the expert category, 12 in the Intermediate and six in beginners class. The whole competition has only registered two all-female teams thus Champaign Divas comprising of Catherine Kimathi (driver) and Vicky Kahare (navigator), and the Young Blacks made up by Ivy Nduta and Joan Wambui. Champaign Divas won the September circuit of the 2017 season which happens to be the second year of the challenge. Previously, there were 16 sections, and the addition of eight means that drivers in each category must cover eight sections for ranking. Stages are about 100m-300m long and at the end of the day, a driver can cover a maximum of 5km. “Drivers in the ‘Expert’ category can go through any other sections but will only be rated for the segments of the course set aside for them. The eight added stages will really bring the best out of the teams as they test their skills,” said George Njoroge, the course clerk adding that more marshals will be deployed for safety purposes on the 100 acres all-fenced property. “A driver will lose points if he or she touch the tape, reverses or stop on course,” stated Njoroge. With such strict rules, Team Eros’ Letion Keen who’ll be competing in the Intermediate class trusts that he will drive and navigate all by himself as he chases for top honours. “I don’t have a navigator yet but I am positive I will win, at least in my category. The last event was tough and challenging but the good thing is that I enjoyed the whole course. With the high adrenaline rush, and at the same time engaging the brain and the limbs, it won’t be anything but fun,” intimated Keen, who will drive a Range Rover V8 at the Challenge. Keen cited Team ‘Verge,’ made up of Joseph Kamau and Jak Bardbury as his main opposition. The off road affair will start with family and fans’ camping on Friday afternoon and then drivers’ training on Saturday at the Champaign Park. During the Saturday training, the event organiszers will inspect the machines’ and drivers’ basic safety requirements and fun sporting events.