Nine students and six teachers from Tenges Boys’ High School in Baringo Central were on Wednesday arraigned over exam cheating. They appeared before principal magistrate Samson Temu at Kabarnet law courts. The court heard that the 15 were found exchanging KCSE history paper 2 on November 24. "On the material day, you negligently caused the nine candidates gain possession of unauthorized written material of History paper two contrary to Section 1 of the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) Act 29 of 2012," Temu read in the charge sheet. Read: Two KCSE candidates expected in court over exam irregularities The accused teachers served as supervisors and invigilators. They are Reuben Mambei, Linah Kiprop, Lily Too, Daniel Kiplimo, Francis Kiptalam, Keitany Kipkirui and Priscilla Tisia. They all denied the charges and were released each with Sh50,000 bond with a surety of the same amount or a cash bail of Sh20, 000. The case will be mentioned on December 19 pending hearing on January 1. The students are Kukat Victor, Boaz Kipsang, Wycliffe Chelanga, Kipkoech Kevin, Noah Chepyegon, Bravin Rerimoi, Anthony Kibet, Henry Kipchumba, and Ian Cherutich. They also denied the charges and were released on a Sh50,000 bond each with similar surety or a cash bail of Sh10,000 each. The mention of their case is slated for December 19 and the hearing will be held on January 18. Investigating Officer Robert Sanga is among the three witnesses expected to testify in the case. Meanwhile, on Wednesday the same court heard the case of a boy, 15, charged with impersonating a 14-year old candidate at Kimalel Boarding and Day primary school, Baringo South sub-county on November 2. They were charged before Kabarnet resident magistrate Nerolyne Idagwa with impersonation contrary to Section 31(2) of the KNEC Act 2012. Idagwa heard that on November 1, the first accused who was dressed in the school uniform attempted to write a science exam on behalf of the second accused of index no.33558110070. "I agree that I attempted to assist my friend write the science paper," the first accused told the court. Also read: Supervisor, teacher charged in Nyamira with possession of KCSE exam materials   Click here for the latest political news