Plans to upgrade the Lanet Airstrip in Nakuru to international airport standards have started. On Wednesday, officials from the ministries of Transport and Infrastructure toured the airstrip. They were accompanied by Governor Lee Kinyanjui. They said the airstrip will be upgraded to accommodate large commercial planes. The delegation included the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority team led by Peter Munyao, the Kenya Airport Authority officials led by Edmond Wekesa and KDF team led by Colonel Martin Ndirangu. The airstrip, which is next to the Kenya Military Academy, will be expanded in partnership with the county government. “Under this arrangement, we shall convert the military facility into a public utility available for use by civilian aircrafts,” Kinyanjui said. The airstrip in just 10 kilometres away from the Nakuru CBD. Residents have praised the expansion plans, saying it will boost commercial activities in the town. “This is a major boost to business in Nakuru as we can easily serve neighbouring countries like South Sudan that have huge business potential,” Lanet resident Rufas Macharia said. Macharia said the airport will be one of the first steps in transforming Nakuru town to attain a city status is on the roadmap of being made. The governor said the county will engage the public from next month to collect their views. “I'm happy to note that what remained a dream for many years, will soon become a reality,” Kinyanjui said. Nakuru resident Kepha Chege said the airport will create an alternative for diversion of flights from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, boosting tourism industry in Nakuru. “Nakuru is a rich tourist attraction with sites like Lake Nakuru and Menengai Crater to serve the flower industry in Naivasha, which form 80 per cent of the cargo freight at JKIA and passenger service,” he said. The stakeholders agreed that a report on technical issues on the design for the airport and the costing for improvement the airstrip to be availed on the first week of January next year. Construction of an airport in the county, which is only two hours from Nairobi, will be convenient for travellers, who mostly rely on facilities in Eldoret, Kisumu or Mombasa in case of an emergency. Previously, efforts by the previous government regimes to construct an airport have been frustrated by divisions among local leaders over its location. At the centre of controversy was a 600-acre land in Pipeline area in the outskirts of town. A section of area leaders had said the land was on a birds migratory corridor, hence unsuitable for the facility. The land had been been earmarked for the airport project in 2004 by former President Mwai Kibaki.