Not long ago, a family friend was detained in a hospital in Kitale for non-payment of bills. Every Kenyan knows of such stories, of patients being detained for days, weeks and months because they cannot immediately settle their medical bills. This is the worst kind of attack on vulnerable people — those who are sick, in pain, under the influence of medication, or who have a new baby. Not only does it violate medical ethics — the key principle of do no harm — but it is prohibited by the Constitution and international law as affirmed in numerous Kenyan judicial decisions including Rasugu v Sandalwood Hotel (2013), Ngugi v Nairobi Hospital & 3 others (2013), and MAO v Attorney General (2015). Non-payment of bills is a critical challenge facing hospitals. Medical professionals have an ethical duty to provide treatment, even to those who cannot pay. But failure to pay puts the entire medical care system at risk by undermining the financial stability of healthcare institutions. Hospitals take patients’ ID cards as collateral for debt payment. This is an ineffective solution, as it violates civil and political rights. Indeed, during the recent election there was much controversy over the fact that thousands couldn’t participate in the political process because their IDs had been confiscated by hospitals. A better solution is ensuring that any patient who walks into a hospital is aware of their opportunity to enrol in NHIF. In partnership with the government, hospitals should be effectively facilitating this process for all their patients. Moreover, public and private hospitals should be supported by the philanthropic sector to create funds to assist with payment of bills for indigent patients. Patients must also take action and not fear to stand up for their rights. Under no circumstances can anyone be detained in a medical facility for non-payment of bills — it is illegal. Even short detentions of 24 hours are illegal. Illegal detention of patients does real, tangible harm and may be considered torture, as highlighted in MAO v Attorney General ( 2015 ), which vindicated the rights of two women who were illegally detained after giving birth. Among other risks, detention in hospital forces patients to remain in a place where they may contract secondary infections. It puts them under severe physical and psychological stress that is harmful to their recovery. Any medical professional who is complicit in detaining a patient should be reported to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board for an ethical violation. Illegal detention of patients is a violation of every medical professional’s oath to do no harm. Indeed, it would be wonderful to see the KMPDB taking the lead in this matter. One of the board’s core functions is investigating cases of professional misconduct. The board could work closely with health rights NGOs to establish a hotline for patients who are threatened with detention. Advocates from the hotline could remind hospitals of their ethical and legal obligation to release patients, and help patients negotiate payment options with the hospital. Politicians, who often are the ones negotiating for release of their detained constituents, can also take the lead. MCAs and MPs should propose legislation that affirms the illegal nature of the practice, establishes fines for hospitals and medical professionals, and designates a monitoring agency to ensure compliance. This type of legislative action would send a clear message to the healthcare system and would protect the rights of patients. Patients also need to band together. Individuals have brought cases to court in the past, but if no legislative action is taken and healthcare institutions continue to engage in this illegal practice it may be time to put the class action provisions of Article 22( 2 )(b), to use. Hospitals must be made to understand that it will be more costly to them to illegally detain and torture patients, because of high legal costs, than it is to simply act ethically and legally when patients cannot pay. Finally, data should be collected so that the scope of the problem can be fully understood. This is an important opportunity for national and county governments, health rights organisations, and international partners to examine what impact this illegal practice is having on the health of Kenyans. Effective coordination and creative solutions can eradicate this illegal practice, help hospitals recoup their fees, and save patients from harm.   Human rights lawyer and independent consultant in Nairobi