Atheists in Kenya want the Nairobi county assembly to repeal an anti-prostitution law passed last week. AIK yesterday said the practice is in no way illegal, provided those involved are consenting adults. It recommended the introduction of taxes to boost revenues for the devolved government. In a statement, AIK chairman Harrison Mumia said legalisation of commercial sex will protect the rights of sex workers from crimes such as sexual harassment, sexual abuse and rape. He said the law passed by city MCAs is backward and violates human and civil rights of prostitutes, adding the business is like any other. “It is our firm position, therefore, that instead of banning prostitution, the Nairobi county assembly should pass enabling legislation to facilitate the smooth running of brothels to enable the government to exercise more control over the sex industry,” Mumia said. No law has succeeded to stop the practice in the past, suggesting that the assembly should instead work on legalising it, as commercial sex is a service industry like any other, he added. “Nobody’s human or civil rights should be violated on the basis of their trade, occupation, work, calling or profession,” the statement read. “Sex work is not going to disappear anytime soon. So, instead of banning prostitution, we should work towards making it a fully legal industry. We believe this is what most sex workers want as well.” The association said the ban unfairly targets women who make up the bulk of those engaging in the trade. According to the National AIDS Control Council, HIV prevalence among sex workers is one of the highest in various groups.  The Kenya HIV County Profiles (2016) capped it at 29.3 per cent, compared to the national average prevalence of 5.9 per cent.  The national average has declined. It was 6.04 per cent in 2014. Among male prostitutes, the prevalence was recorded at 18.2 per cent in 2016. The rate among people injecting themselves with drugs was 18.3. The 2016 profile estimated the HIV and Aids burden to have accounted for 29 per cent of annual adult deaths, 20 per cent of maternal mortality and 15 per cent of deaths of children under the age of five.