The Nairobi county is once again on the spot after it emerged it is secretly operating more than 20 bank accounts. A report tabled in the county assembly chamber last Thursday revealed that City Hall runs 31 bank accounts, four held at the Central Bank and 27 at commercial banks. It has 15 accounts at Cooperative Bank, two accounts at Equity Bank, seven at National Bank, two at Kenya Commercial Bank and one at Chase Bank. According to the Public Finance Management Act, the county should have two main accounts.  One should be a revenue fund account for receiving disbursements from the Exchequer and internal revenue. The other is a development fund account to receive money from Central Bank for development.  The law also gives the county treasury the power to open other accounts based on the county’s needs. But these accounts should be based on legislation or at least, their creation should be approved by the county assembly. The county assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee is investigating how the executive opened some accounts without its approval. According to the report tabled by Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman Robert Mbatia, some questionable accounts have overdrafts totaling Sh499.9 million.  This excludes nine accounts whose balances as at June 30, 2017, the committee could not ascertain. The report was tabled in response to a statement requested by Woodley MCA Mwangi Njuhia, who sought to know the number of bank accounts and bank reconciliations of the county in 2016-17 financial year. According to Mbatia, only three of the 27 accounts held at the commercial banks were approved by the August House. “Most of these accounts were inherited by the former regime, which continued operating them. Even though it is true we need some of them, the county should have known that we have a new Constitution,” he said. He said the committee had launched investigations, noting the accounts could have been conduits for siphoning county cash. At the Central Bank, the county has Revenue Account, Recurrent Account, Development Account and Road Maintenance Account. Some of the accounts held at Cooperative Bank include three Loan Call Accounts, Operation Imprest Account, Operations Account, Afri-cities PDM Account and Nairobi City County-Asia Economic Partnership. Njuhia suspected that some county officials could be using the clandestine accounts to siphon cash and urged the committee to investigative the people behind their creation. “Of the 31 bank reconciliations, only two were signed. This means people behind these accounts are hiding their identity. This is a serious scandal that must be unearthed,” he said.  Auditor General Edward Ouko and Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo have raised concerns in their reports since 2013 over the county’s habit to spend the revenue at source instead of channelling it to Revenue Account at Central Bank for accountability.