The 12th General Election was the longest
electoral cycle in Kenyan electioneering. It lasted from August 8 to October 26
and had two presidential elections. The campaigns had began months, perhaps
even years before, and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was at the forefront
of the Opposition, even when it did not look like a united force, a state of
affairs that again seems to be the case. The aftermath of the 12th General Election also
looks like it is going to be a prolonged affair.
 Speaking about the 2017 election on a live interview on
Citizen TV, Raila said he would approach the polls with several bullets. “This
election is not about me, it is about Kenya. Some people keep saying it is my
last bullet, but you know one cannot just go to war with one bullet. I still
have several bullets and, even in this election, I am going into it with
several bullets,” he said.
 When he announced that he would be sworn in as the People’s
President by the People’s Assembly in a public ceremony scheduled for Jamhuri
Day, December 12, Attorney General Githu Muigai appeared on live TV and warned
Raila that treason carries a death sentence.
 Raila’s swearing-in was postponed. But the issue was revived
on Sunday in Kilifi and on Tuesday in Kitui by Raila, speaking to mourners at the funeral of Kitui West MP
Francis Nyenze. 
 The NASA leader declared he was prepared
to face the death penalty after being sworn in. Taking the oath, AG Githu had
declared earlier in the week, was a manifest death wish. Githu, a former UN Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, has warned Raila twice this month that he risks being put to death of he takes the oath. Writing in the Star on Thursday, international constitutional lawyer Yash Ghai urged Raila to stop the oath idea. "There is talk of secession, but in these circumstances, the supporters of secession would not have the ability to bring it about. A major crisis will arise - and there is every likelihood that Raila and his team will be blamed for the consequences." Meantime, both before Jamhuri Day and this week, Donald
Yamamoto, the acting assistant secretary for African Affairs in the Trump Administration, warned Raila to drop his oathing plans. Yamamoto told Raila he
risks ruining his hard-fought-for legacy as a reformer, if he crowned himself
the People’s President.
 And then Yamamoto made a pledge — to personally bring
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila to a table of negotiations on political and
electoral reforms.This is the last thing the Jubilee administration wants,
arguing it is in fact everything Raila wants and has strategised for since at
least the aftermath of the 2013 Presidential election.
 In the National Security Strategy of the United States of
America produced by the Trump Administration this week, Africa appears on Page
52 of a 55-page document, just before the brief Conclusion. Among other things
it notes, “Africa remains a continent of promise and enduring challenges.
Africa contains many of the world’s fastest growing economies, which represent
potential new markets for U.S. goods and services. Aspiring partners across the
continent are eager to build market-based economies and enhance stability. The
demand for quality American exports is high and will likely grow as Africa’s
population and prosperity increase. People across the continent are demanding
government accountability and less corruption, and are opposing autocratic
trends.”
 Raila and his strategists paint a portrait of the Jubilee
Administration as being incorrigibly corrupt and autocratic, but this is a narrative
that is clearly not selling against the backdrop of his recourse to the
politics of self-immolation. Raila has political bloc support that is more
passionate, excitable and emotive than any other within these borders,
particularly in its Luo epicenter. His declaration of being ready to die by
taking the oath is calculated to galvanize this support and bring such pressure
to bear on Jubilee as to be intolerable and force talks — on Raila’s terms.
 No one knows this better than Deputy President William Ruto,
a former ally turned arch foe and detractor. Ruto is at a unique point in a
Kenyan political career: He is waiting for five years to make it to State House
in the Uhuru succession transition polls of 2022, based on a long-term strategy
activated in 2013.
 Jubilee’s strategists are dead set against a dialogue that
sees power shared again with forces led by Raila, who himself occasionally says
he has no wish to join hands with “tyranny”. If he can front the secession
agenda, and given his 1982 coup attempt credentials, he could well exit a Nusu
Mkate regime and take parts of the security establishment with him.
 If Raila does indeed take the oath, what happens thereafter
is unclear. Do we see two Presidential motorcades; will he receive foreign
visitors and sign treaties and trade deals with them? Will he celebrate
National Day holidays?  What honour
guards will he review and will any of them be armed? The spectacle of a state
without structures is something Kenyans cannot conceive of right now, even
Raila’s most ardent supporters.
 The Spanish government dissolved the regional government
after Catalan lawmakers illegally declared an independent nation in October
this year. The New York Times called
it “the biggest crisis in decades to hit Spain”.
 “We never wanted to reach this situation, never,” Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy said on television, announcing the emergency steps he
was taking under the Constitution to crush Catalan independence.
 Raila’s politics of self-immolation could cause Kenya’s
biggest political crisis in decades — and that’s saying a lot.