The Ministry of Sports officials and their Football Kenya Federation (FKF) counterparts have come under heavy criticism for failing to recognise sportsmen who brought Kenya fame.  Former Harambee Stars’ coach Jacob ‘Ghost”Mulee said it was painful and demoralising to see soccer legends like Joe Kadenge, Ambrose ‘Goldenboy’ Ayoyi and many others wallowing in poverty. “I’m challenging and blaming the Ministry of Sports and FKF officials for failing in their jurisdiction to honour past soccer legends. Where is Ambrose Ayoyi? Nobody from the ministry or from FKF has managed to come here and honour this year’s Hall of Fame winner Allan Thigo whose contribution to our football goes beyond borders,” wondered Mulee.  He made the remarks on Saturday at a Nairobi hotel, where Thigo was named the 2017 Hall of Fame winner. The award came with a token of Sh80,000.  Thigo, who was flanked by his daughter, lauded the organisers for recognizing him. He send the packed audience to prolonged laughter on his thorny journey to stardom and football life during their hey days. He dedicated the trophy to fans who supported him, fellow players who donned national colours and his opponents too.  “ I feel proud of my contribution to Kenya football. I thank the organisers for picking me. But I wish former legends like Elijah Lidonde, Shem Shimoto and the late Oronge and many others could be honoured even by the state. Look at Manchester United, a player like Bobby Charlton is always honoured wherever he goes but here in Kenya,it’s the other way round,” he chuckled. Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier,Mahmoud Abbas,Austin ‘Makamu”Odour and Bob Oyugi among othersnarrated the challenges that faced former and current players which they said needs to be addressed. Others who attended the colourful event that was marked with a minute silence in honour of the late Uganda-based soccer star Timothy Ayieko included Mahmoud Abbas, GMT Ottieno, Rishadi Shedu, Tusker FC Keeper Duncan Ochieng, Jerry Santos, Extre Sports representative Athanas Obango, Austin Odour and Allan Thigo among other Kenyans who stay in the diaspora, currently on holidays.