In a surprise move, Kenya Rugby Union have parted ways with Simbas’ head coach Jerome Paarwater. In a statement from KRU, the board acknowledged Paarwater’s significant contribution, particularly to Simbas since his arrival in late 2012. However, rugby enthusiasts have termed the move as suspect considering Rugby World Cup qualifiers are slated for June next year. KRU statement read: “Jerome has been a key influence for the Simbas, guiding the team up the world rankings and making the team a formidable force on the continental stage. He has certainly been part and parcel of the country’s continued growth in the longer version of the game.” “KRU would like to appreciate Jerome’s efforts and wish him well in his endeavours and will announce his replacement at a later time,” said the statement. Sources familiar with the story indicate that all has not been well between the Kenya Cup clubs and the national team. The South African tactician almost steered Kenya to the Rugby World Cup in 2015 with very little resources and lack of an age grade structure in the country. The clubs have accused the coach of not being hands on and coming into the country only when the Simbas are playing. Paarwater is contracted by the Western Province Rugby Union as talent and identification coach and was brought into the country by former chairman Mwangi Muthee. The Kenya Cup clubs caucus and some board members want a greater say in the running of the team with particular players from certain clubs being involved in the national team set up. KRU are looking for a suitable replacement and they intend top make the announcement in January. Under Paarwater’s rein, the Simbas jumped to a high of 23 in the world rankings and played several test matches. They also played in the Vodacom Cup in South Africa and had an opportunity to train in Cape Town alongside Western Province in South Africa amongst other training opportunities Paarwater sourced for the team. The position of defence coach Levy Labeeb remains unclear.