Primary school heads and their deputies will now be required to have a Bachelor of Education degree. This is one of the new measures announced by the Teachers’ Service Commission to improve teaching and promote quality education. TSC CEO Nancy Macharia yesterday said they have set new education qualifications for primary and secondary school head teachers and college principals. Most primary school heads and their number twos will have to further their studies if they have to retain their positions. The majority have Knec post-secondary education certificates. Read: KUSU rejects Matiang'i order barring varsities from hiring permanent staff Secondary school and college principals and their deputies will be required to have at least a Master of Education degree. In the new regulations, teachers will no longer serve in their home counties.  “It’s the commission’s hope that this policy will enhance cohesion and appreciation of our diverse cultures,” Macharia said yesterday. She officially opened the 13th annual primary heads’ meeting in Mombasa attended by more than 10,000 teachers. The TSC has also limited the period heads of institutions can stay in one school “to eliminate conflict of interest”. Head teachers and principals will not serve at one school for more than nine years. Deputies’ terms have been limited to six years at a particular institution. The new administrative structure has been introduced to strengthen management of schools. “Deployment will be done based on teachers’ experience, performance and grade,” Macharia said. The commission has reviewed the management structure of schools to strength administrative capacity. “For example, primary schools with up to two streams will have one deputy and one senior teacher,” Macharia said. “Primary schools with 24 classes [three streams] and a maximum of 1,200 pupils and those with 32 classes [four streams] and a maximum of 1,600 learners will be assigned two deputies and two senior teachers.” Senior teachers in primary schools have been added more roles and will now head departments of social studies, science and mathematics, languages and boarding. Other departments include co-curriculum activities, guidance and counselling, quality assurance and mentorship. Policy on identification, selection and deployment of institutional administrators has also been developed. Macharia said performance contracts improve learning because teachers are held to account. She said the KCPE exam results proved this was long overdue. The state spends more than Sh15 billion on teachers’ salaries. “We should individually and collectively work towards ensuring that more than half of our children score in the range of between 300 and 500 marks,” the CEO said. Macharia said teachers who were promoted to higher grades during the implementation of their collective bargaining agreement will not be eligible for annual increment this year. She said they are already upgraded and cannot qualify for increment. Click here for the latest political news