Kiambu High Court judge Joel Ngugi has dismissed a petition to disqualify himself from murder case of Kiru Boys High School principal. The two accused, Jane Muthoni, widow to the deceased, and Isaac Nganga had presented their application through their lawyer Francis Njanja, stating that the court was biased, unfair and impartial to the hearing of their case. They said it was relying on the determination of a manslaughter case of Joseph Kariuki alias Karis, who confessed to killing Solomon Mwangi with their help and was determined by the same judge. They prayed that the court refers the case for trial at Nairobi High Court. The applications are based on the two accused also having been denied bail and the tone and the wording of the bail ruling showed prejudice. In his ruling on the application Ngugi assured the two accused that he has no interest in the case and has absolutely no reason to predetermine their case. "I took oath of office which I live by and I looked at the tests provided by law to check on biaseness on my part and I absolutely have no reason to be biased. I assure you that the matter will not be predetermined due to the other rulings," Ngugi said. The application further stated that no matter how strong and good the defence the accused may have the same would be met by a partial and a made up mind on the part of the trial court. Muthoni stated in her affidavit that she wants to demonstrate her utter innocence but  the fabrication of the facts has been done by investigating officers and brought up to court  through the allegations contained in the manslaughter case of Kariuki, which the court is using against her hence the court not giving her a fair trial. Nganga's affidavfit said that the court took a position after determining kariuki's case and the state hired witnesses to fabricate a case against him. Kihanga Mwangi, a state lawyer representing Nganga, however removed himself from representing Nganga and  is being represented by Njanja. The matter will be mentioned on 21st December and it will be heard on 22nd and 23rd January 2018.      