Nelson Marwa has laughed off NASA's plans for a fresh election in 90 days from October 26 telling the group that "the game is over". The Coast regional coordinator, who is eyeing a Principal Secretary post, said the Opposition need no reminder that the next election will be held in 2022. Marwa is among the 120 out of 4,000 people shortlisted for the 90 PS posts which are set to be filled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. NASA boycotted the October poll in which Uhuru won having garnered 98 per cent of the vote which was characterised by a low turnout. Raila referred to the election as a "charade with predetermined results". He has embarked on a plan to be sworn in on December 12. Read: Raila sends invitation cards for December 12 swearing in Marwa further downplayed the Opposition's question on Uhuru's legitimacy following the 38 per cent voter turnout saying the president and the DP are duly in office. "They (NASA) should be told this country needs to move forward," Mwara said during a media briefing on Saturday at Uhuru Na Kazi Building, Mombasa. "We are calling upon Kenyans and residents of this region to go back to their normal business," Marwa said noting that NASA should not "waste a lot of time". His statements came a day after the opposition stepped up its campaign for the creation of People's Assembly through which it intends to realise Raila's presidency. The team named a seven-member committee to guide the implementation of the assemblies. Economist David Ndii will chair the team and will be responsible for coordinating programmes of all county assemblies that have passed the secession motion. Other members are Judith Sijeny, Oduor Ong'wen, Mutakha Kangu, Peter Muthuki, Hamida Kibwana and Koitamet ole Kina. Also read: NASA unveils team to guide on People’s Assembly execution But Marwa said the political machinations are wasteful further taking a swipe at analysts. He urged the latter to focus on how to move the country forward. "Election and its hangover is a done thing. We should not talk about it. Let’s do tangible things," the administrator said. He further asked poll losers to use between now and 2022 to come up with fresh strategies. "This is hard fact and you cannot contest it anywhere," Marwa said. Click here for the latest political news        