Fresh discord is brewing in NASA over the appointment of three members to a prestigious and powerful parliamentary commission. The Star has learnt that NASA’s move to “shortchange” Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi in the appointment to the Parliamentary Service Commission is causing discomfort. Jubilee has also vowed to reject NASA nominees to the commission. They include Senator George Khaniri (Vihiga), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay Woman Representative) and Aisha Juma of Malindi. NASA on Wednesday submitted names of Memusi, Khaniri and Jumwa to Parliament. They were, however, withdrawn the same day under unclear circumstances. The withdrawal saw Memusi replaced with Wanga, who was also a PSC commissioner in the 11th Parliament. “Another list of NASA appointees was brought yesterday morning. We will reject Khaniri, Jumwa and Wanga, because we are uncomfortable with their conduct both in the House and outside,” National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said. A Wiper legislator, who is unhappy with the shortchanging of Memusi, cautioned the alliance’s leadership under Raila Odinga to consider regional balance.  “There is discomfort, because the appointment has not been done properly. We want regional balancing. Raila should be mindful of this. Wanga is vehemently fighting to remain in the PSC,” the MP, who sought anonymity, said.  A second time Ford Kenya legislator, who also refused to be named, said Jubilee is opposed to NASA’s three nominees due to their vicious criticism of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “On Wednesday, I heard Jubilee members saying they will reject NASA appointees to the PSC, because they have been abusing President Kenyatta,” the MP said. Duale, however, denied the MP’s claim and maintained they are opposed to the three, because they don’t meet the constitutional integrity to be commissioners. “The integrity of the person serving in the commission must be beyond reproach. Wanga was a commissioner in the last Parliament and her behaviour has not been in tandem with the position of a commissioner,” Duale said. The Garissa Township MP warned that Speaker Justin Muturi, the PSC chairman, is likely to dismiss the nominees and “ask NASA to put its house in order.” Taveta MP Naomi Shaban is among Jubilee’s nominees to the PSC. A source privy to Jubilee’s appointees told the Star that Uhuru’s party is also faced with the headache of picking members to the commission. The source said Jubilee’s member Adan Keynan of Eldas, who served in the commission in the last Parliament, has been dropped. The members want fresh blood in the PSC. Sirisia MP John Waluke is among Jubilee Party members lobbying for the PSC slot.