Meru Senator Mithika Linturi moved to court on Monday to challenge UoN's decision to de-register him, just days to his graduation with a law degree. The university revoked the degree after claims he presented fake papers of admission in 2014. More on this: UoN revokes Senator Mithika Linturi's law degree Linturi says trouble started when his political opponents swore they would do anything to ensure he was not on the ballot for the August 8 general election. He mentioned former Meru Governor Peter Munya and politician Mugambi Imanyara and said EACC took over the political war. Read: IEBC ordered to furnish Imanyara with Linturi's academic credentials The legislator's lawyer Tom Ojienda said he was summoned by the anti-graft agency for investigations on May 30. “EACC had conclusively investigated the allegations that Linturi's self-declaration forms for 2013 elections, filed with IEBC, were falsified,” court papers state. Linturi says he was admitted to the University of Nairobi on January 3, 2014 and was to graduate on December 22 with a Bachelor of Law Degree. But on November 30, he "learnt with shock" that the institution had de-registered him for allegedly having a fake degree from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University.  The Senator wants the court to quash UoN's decision to discontinue him as its student.  He also wants the university compelled to list him as a student graduating on December 22. Linturi says the university did not inform him in writing that it was investigating his degree with the aim of de-registering, and noted this was in violation of Article 47 of the constitution. ' "It was illegal, unreasonable and an utter show of bad faith for UoN to de-register the applicant without conducting its own independent investigations, informing him and at the very least affording him his right to be heard." Linturi says UoN's actions show it has allowed itself to be used illegally by the EACC "in an utter unapologetic show of abuse of power, to harass, intimidate and violate his right to education'. The university said its Senate resolved to de-register the lawmaker following investigations that revealed his degree from India was forged and used to secure the admission in 2014. Click here for the latest political news