Sneha Kotecha set up a semi-final date with Gabon’s Celestine Avomo after winning their respective Karen Open quarter final matches yesterday. Sneha advanced to semis after beating Burundi’s Hoziane Kitambala 6-3,6-0 while Avomo thrashed Kenya’s Judith Nkatha 6-2, 6-1. Sneha, who is now the sole Kenyan girl in semis, picked easy points in the opening two games which she claimed before dropping the third game to the Burundi national. She was clinical in the subsequent three games and seemed on course to win the first set. Kitambala capitalised on her serve and broke Sneha’s serve to pick two games. She, however, dropped the ninth game to Sneha which meant victory for the home girl. In the second set Sneha had easy pickings and was clinical, claiming all games to book a date with Avomo in the semis. In the other quarter final Nkatha was no match to Avomo. The dreaded Gabonese had an easy encounter against the Kenyan girl, dropping a mere three games in the entire match. The towering Gabonese was superb in her volleys and serves and was never troubled by Nkatha. Avomo will square it out with Sneha in the semis in a repeat of August’s ITF junior circuit match, where she carried the day. In the other semi final, Burundi’s Aisha Niyonkuru will play Madagascan Elodie Ranaivo. In the boys category, the tournament’s top seeded player, Uganda’s Duncan Mugabe sailed to the semis after sending Kenya’s Kevin Cheruiyot packing with a 6-1, 6-1 win. Sheil Kotecha’s dream of joining her little sister in the semis was dealt a blow after the latter fell to Abdul Shakour Kabura of Burundi in a 6-4, 6-0 defeat. Mugabe had an easy outing against the Kenyan boy, ending the home player’s dream of joining his brother Ibrahim Kibet in the semis. Mugabe dropped single games in each set to book a date with Kabura. On the other hand, Kotecha pulled back four games in the opening set but were not enough to guarantee him victory in the first set. In the second set, Kotecha found the going rough and lost all games to his opponent before crushing out of the tournament. Today, Kenyans Ismael Changawa and Ibrahim Kibet will fight for the final slot when they meet in the first semi final. Mugabe will play Kabura in the other semi.