The Supreme Court yesterday explained that NASA leader Raila Odinga's withdrawal from the October 26 presidential rerun was not grounds to nullify the poll. In elaborating on its reasons for upholding on November 20 the controversial outcome, the court also said low turnout didn't undermine legitimacy of the poll. Nor did voting have to take place in every constituency for the election to be valid, it said. Also, there was no evidence that dead voters cast ballots, the six-judge bench said. New nominations were not necessary, the earlier nominations were already valid, the justices said. The six judges also said that they themselves were not intimated to uphold the legitimacy of the election, as alleged in one election petition. The apex court, led by Chief Justice David Maraga, said Raila's decision to bolt prior to the gazetted date of the election could not affect the results. Activists Njonjo Mue and Khelef Khalifa filed a joint petition to challenge Kenyatta's re-election for the second and last term in office. A separate petition had been filed by former Kilome MP Harun Mwau. Yesterday, the court declined to award costs, saying issues of election petitions are matters of public interest. The justices said it would be imprudent to award costs. On November 20, the six-judge bench, in an unanimous decision, upheld the declaration of Uhuru as the duly elected President by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The court dismissed the petitions, arguing that they lacked merit. On September 1, the court had overturned Kenyatta's August 8 General Election victory, saying the election was riddled with irregularities and illegalities. It said it would not hesitate to overturn a similarly flawed presidential rerun. But this one was acceptable and completely legal. “It emerges that the withdrawal of the candidate from the October 26 presidential election could not, in law, have occasioned cancellation of the election,” Justice Smokin Wanjala said. He said, “The NASA candidate, in our view, did not only make in public an announcement of his decision to withdraw from the election but also did address a formal letter to that effect to IEBC. Such action, in our perception, constituted to substantive and legally effective withdrawal.” He said Raila's withdrawal, that of one candidate, from the electoral contest, was not one of the scenarios contemplated as a basis for nullification, arguing the nominations had been conducted before the repeat poll.  Wanjala ruled it was not the sole obligation of the state and state organs to conduct elections in all the 290 constituencies, but also of the voters themselves.  “It is our finding neither the state nor the IEBC bears responsibility for failure of voting in certain areas of the country. Such failure would be attributed to unidentified private citizens and political actors who actively caused the offending situations that affected directly or indirectly,” Wanjala said. “The validity of the fresh election therefore cannot be challenged on that ground." He ruled out application by one petitioner that they (the judges ) were intimidated by Kenyatta after the court nullified his reelection in the August 8 poll. “We are speaking for ourself in this regard that no judge of this court was intimidated by the choice of words of the third respondent (Uhuru),” he said.  Deputy chief Justice Philomena Mwilu said the new controversial Election Laws were not applicable to the petition.  “As at the time the petition was lodged, the laws were not applicable. Laws should be applied progressively but not retrogressively. Legislation should be addressed for the future." But Justice Njoki Ndung'u said Constitution Section 83 was the epicentre of the petition and, hence, was applicable.  CJ Maraga ruled the voter turnout of an election cannot be a criterion for determining the legitimacy of the election. “An election cannot be tainted solely on voter turnout and general apathy in repeat polls.”  Maraga ruled the election on October 26 was credible and met all constitutional thresholds of a free and fair election. On the issue of voter turnout and discrepancies among figures of the exact people who voted, the court held that the IEBC acted in a transparent manner by opening up its servers a day after declaring the results. Justice Jackton Ojwang said that the petitioners had made general allegations in their case against the IEBC. On the allegations that a flawed voter register affected the outcome, the court said there was no evidence showing that dead voters were allowed to cast ballots. The apex court noted that the IEBC exercised their powers conferred in regulation 64(2) 2013 by moving polling stations to another location as a result of violence and no one complained they could not find their voting stations. “We find no validity in the petitioners claims the electoral officials lacked authority to oversee repeat elections," Ojwang said. Among issues the petitioners cited as grounds for annulment was failure by the IEBC to conduct fresh nominations, withdrawal by NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga and failure by voters in 25 constituencies to take part in the election. Dismissal of the two petitions paved way for swearing in President Kenyatta for a second term on November 28. "The court has unanimously determine the petitions are not merited," Maraga ruled. "The presidential election is upheld," the court said at that time. But Raila, through his adviser Salim Lone, had said on November 20, "We in NASA had repeatedly declared before this Supreme Court ruling that we consider this government to be illegitimate and do not recognise it. This position has not been changed by the court's ruling." In a statement, Lone said the ruling was not surprising to the coalition. "This ruling didn't come as a surprise. It was a decision taken under duress. We do not condemn the court. We sympathise with it," he said. Click here for latest political news  