More than 100,000 jobless Kenyans will be hired as community health volunteers next year, the Health ministry has said. Health CS Cleopa Mailu yesterday said each volunteer will be expected to recruit at least 20 households to join the National Health Insurance Fund, among other roles. The volunteers will not require prior health qualifications, but will receive some basic training before they start their work. Mailu said this was one of the measures put in place to extend basic health services to everyone under the concept of universal health coverage. He spoke in Tokyo at the ongoing UHC Forum, which is jointly organised by the Japanese government, the World Bank, Unicef and the Japan International Cooperation Agency. “We aim to expand the number and scope of services available to the population, expand coverage of existing services and reduce financial risk associated with use of essential services,” Mailu said. Health is a shared function between the national and county governments, with most roles assumed by the devolved units. The national government is in charge of policy and running of three national referral hospitals — KNH, MTRH-Eldoret and Mathari National Teaching and Referral Hospital. Counties such as Siaya and Kiambu have already contracted some health volunteers, who are given stipends. The World Health Organization director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, currently advocates a primary healthcare that strongly includes community health workers. In his speech, Mailu said the government also intends to gradually increase budgetary allocations to the Health ministry from seven per cent this year to 10 per cent in 2022. “At the same time, we want to create an environment conducive to investments in the health sector,” he said. “Currently, the public health sector accounts for 55 per cent of all health services.” At the Tokyo meeting, which ends this weekend, Kenya will also seek international support for a new plan — Results-Based Financing — to reward thousands of poor people with incentives such as cash or goods whenever they seek certain health services. The plan targets places such as northern Kenya, where residents have largely shunned hospital services such as immunisation and deliveries, despite the government’s efforts to improve facilities. Medical services have also been made free, but uptake is still low in such regions. “These programmes range from maternal and child health, HIV-Aids, TB and malaria to non-communicable diseases, improved health infrastructure and equipment, health commodities and supplies and robust disease surveillance and response,” Mailu said before he travelled to Tokyo. Health workers would also be rewarded when they achieve certain performance targets such as immunising a certain percentage of children in a given area. If the government takes the World Health Organization model, however, only the health workers will receive financial incentives. Results-Based Financing was popularised by the World Bank and has returned impressive results in African countries where it is implemented.      