Sofapaka scoring sensation Umaru Kasumba is happy with the arrival of new signing Stephen Waruru and looks prospects of them forming a lethal partnership in the team’s striking force. “I understand that my employers have brought on board Waruru and I must say this is one of the best things to have happened at Sofapaka,” said Kasumba in a telephone conversation from his native home in Uganda where he is on Christmas and New Year holidays.  “Waruru is doubtlessly one of the best players in the Kenyan Premier League and It is my utmost belief that he will add value to Sofapaka’s goal hunt in the team’s quest to clinch the 2018 title,” he was quoted as saying on Sofapaka website.  Kasumba said he can’t wait to partner the former Ulinzi Stars man in Batoto Ba Mungu’s search for goals next year. “He (Waruru) is a dribbler per excellence and has an eye for goal and hopefully, we will form a striking partnership that will send chills down the spines of our opponents next season. May I take this early opportunity to congratulate Sofapaka President Elly Kalekwa and the rest of the team’smanagement for this big signing,” said Kasumba. The signing of Waruru now gives Sofapaka coach Sam Ssimbwa several options in the team’s attacking line which also incorporates Kasumba, Ali Feni and Ezekiel Okare. In the meantime, Kasumba has hinted that he has turned down several offers from various clubs in Uganda and has opted to stick with Sofapaka until the expiry of his contract at the end of KPL 2018 season. Kasumba categorically pointed out that he was not interested in playing in Uganda and would rather venture into a career outside the country. “I have said it before that my football career will end elsewhere and not in Uganda. All I want is more challenges which I’m already getting at Sofapaka,” Kasumba said. He claimed that he read politics in the selection of Uganda national team, including the current squad in the ongoing Senior Challenge Cup. “Honestly, there are a lot of politics in Ugandan football. The failure by the national team selectors to summon me for the Cecafa duties is not making me have sleepless nights. As for now, I’m comfortable playing at Sofapaka,” quipped Kasumba.