NASA chief Raila Odinga has said no one will stop him from being sworn-in as 'president'. “I am going to carry the Bible. Nobody will stop me from carrying the Bible,” Raila said. He spoke on Sunday evening during the first Coast region People’s Assembly meeting held in Kikambala, Kilifi county. “It is better to stand up for the truth and die for something than die for nothing," Raila. Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned that swearing-in Raila amounts to high treason, an offence punishable by death. Raila said they will continue to push on with their People's Assembly agenda until electoral justice is achieved in Kenya. "We will progress until we get electoral justice. We will ensure that ultimately, the winner is declared the winner." Read: 'Wapende, wasipende': NASA plans national fete for Raila swearing in Raila however left open the option for dialogue saying the country needs concrete and positive negotiations. The opposition chief explained why he postponed the swearing-in ceremony that had been scheduled on Jamhuri Day, December 12, in Mombasa. He said political temperatures were too high at the time and that there was high chances of chaos breaking out. [VIDEO] Cops fire tear gas, seal off Jacaranda grounds ahead of NASA rally “Kenya is bigger than any of us. Kenya is at a tipping point. It just needs a spark for it to erupt,” he noted. Earlier, NASA leaders, who included governors, senators, MPs, and MCAs from Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta and Kisumu counties demanded that Raila be sworn-in immediately. One of the delegates even brought a Bible to the podium amid cheers and ululations. “They can postpone but they cannot stop River Nile from reaching the Mediterranean Sea,” Raila reassured his supporters, majority of whom expressed open disappointment when the December 12 fete was called off. Earlier, ODM executive director Oduor Ong’wen said they will swear-in Raila at a national event noting that the time table of events is already out. “I believe the only legitimately elected person as the President of the Republic of Kenya is none other than Raila Odinga,” Ong’wen said. NASA strategist David Ndii said Kenya needs to rebuild its foundation. "In 1963, Kenya was poor but had unity and hope. In 2017, Kenya is still poor, divided and no hope,” he said. Read: Raila will get to State House 'by all means' before 2022 - Fred Outa Click here for the latest political news