Kisii Women MP Janet Ong’era yesterday termed allegations by a petitioner who is challenging her election that ballot boxes for women seat were missing during the August 8 polls as laughable. Ong’era said that IEBC conducted the exercise in a free, fair and transparent manner saying claims by the petitioner Nahashon Akunga that the polls were not credible are unfounded. She told High Court Judge Anthony Ndung’u that she was validly elected to represent interests of the people. The MP who was testifying before Ndung’u defended the Commission on claims by Akunga that fraudlent forms 39A, B and C were used in the elections. “My Lord the August polls were free, fair and transparent. I want to state that I was validly elected,” Ong’era said. On cross examination by Akung’a lawyer Edward Begi, Ong’era said that said that the petitioner was on fishing expedition over claims of missing ballot boxes saying he did not bring any witness to court to testify on the same. Akunga who was a chief Jubilee chief agent personally signed form 39 C which county returning officer Sydney Namulunga used to declared her the winner. She said that that there was no problem in the transposition and tallying votes at the County tallying centre. On re-examination by her lawyer Okong’o Omogeni, said that there was contest on votes she garnered ahead of her closet rival Doris Donya Aburi. Adducing his evidence, Namulungu said that some agents did not statutory forms used in the election because some had left because they were fatigued. On claims that no credible voter register was used, Namulungu said that he used a credible register adding that the petitioner did not raise any complaint over the number of registered. When asked whether a voter is entitled to vote in all the six seats, Namulungu said that it is not a must because he can decide a leader of his own choice and leave the rest of the seats. He said that the elections for women MP were free fair and very transparent and that they were peaceful. Ong’era and Namulungu were the last persons to give their evidence thus paving way for final submissions. But before the submissions, the petitioner made an application for scrutiny and recount of votes in some polling stations. Justice Ndung’u directed that the petitioner files the application by December 20and the hearing on 28.