Economist David Ndii's arrest signals Kenya's descent into dictatorship and is a contradiction of Uhuru Kenyatta's commitment to being a president for all, human rights activists said on Monday. Former Ethics PS John Githongo, Suba Churchill of National Civil Society Congress, AfriCOG's Gladwell Otieno and ICPC's Ndungu Wainaina separately said the events following the NASA strategist's detention should concern every citizen. The DCI said in a tweet that the economist and anti-corruption campaigner was "currently under interrogation regarding matters touching on the offence of incitement to violence" but gave no further details. "Ndii is a law-abiding citizen. If there was anything police wanted from him, they could have invited him, not waited until he was on holiday to arrest and bundle him into a car back to Nairobi. The natur of the arrest was aimed at creating fear and intimidation and trampling on citizens rights," Githongo said. "The President's men have been speaking of authoritarianism during the second term. We are headed to full dictatorship. It behooves on everyone to resist this for our children's sake and for our country.'; Ndii's wife Mwende Gatabaki earlier criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta and police for the manner in which they were handled. NASA boss Raila Odinga has said more people will be arrested but they will not surrender or give in to intimidation. Read: David Ndii's wife speaks of his arrest, rebukes police and Uhuru Also read: More will be arrested, Raila says, demands David Ndii's release Churchil said they were perturbed and that Ndii's arrests signalled the government is hell-bent on intimidating and harassing those with contrary opinions. "This is a worrying pattern, coming days after the President took the oath of office and vowed to be the President of all, including Ndii and those who didn't vote for him. "We condemn it and demand that he be released. Even if he has broken any law, the right criminal justice procedures must be followed, not these rein-of-terror and witch-hunt we are being exposed to." Wainaina added: "Ndii is a globally renowned economist with enormous reputation and recognition. By arresting him, Uhuru communicates to the world his authoritarianism and intolerance to political dissent. This arrest is further de-legitimisation of Uhuru,"  He noted it is unconstitutional for police to arrest a person in the disguise of investigations. "Ndii has been at the forefront of articulating the problems with the way the country is run," Gladwell Otieno, executive director of Africa Centre for Open Governance (AfriCOG) said in Nairobi. Via Twitter, Wandia Njoya asked: "Is arresting Ndii part of the reconciliation plan the President told us about at his coronation?"  Read: 'President for all': Uhuru reaches out to NASA leaders after swearing-in Activist Boniface Mwangi described the NASA strategist as a patriot who loves, supports and defends his country and its interests with devotion. Ndii was arrested at a hotel in Diani Beach, Kwale county, on Sunday while attending a relative's wedding. He was with his wife and 11-year-old daughter at the time members of the Special Crimes Unit pounced on him. He is a member of a NASA committee coordinating the formation of People's Assembly and was at the centre of the Opposition's activities ahead of the August 8 and October 26 election. After his arrest, the economist was driven to Nairobi for questioning on allegations of incitement. However, NASA said he was arrested for his involvement in the push for the creation of the People's Assembly and the opposition movement. On Monday, leaders including Siaya Senator James Orengo, former Nairobi Senator aspirant Edwin Sifuna and NASA CEO Norman Magaya were barred from getting into DCI headquarters where Ndii was taken. More: NASA leaders barred from DCI after David Ndii arrest Also read: NASA strategist David Ndii to record statement with DCI for incitement Click here for the latest political stories