Kenya’s Carl ‘Flush’ Tundo and Richard Jackson of Britain are the joint winners of the 2017 Kenya Airways East Africa Classic Safari Rally which ended in Mombasa yesterday. This is the first time the rally has produced joint winners since its inception 2013. After a long stewards meeting, it was unanimously decided that the pair shares the spoils.  Jackson navigated by Ryan Champion in a Tuthill Porsche 911 proved beyond reasonable doubt that they are experts on rough road after nine days of grueling battle between humans and machines as hard-charging Kenyan driver Tundo also proved he is a hard nut to crack, as well. Jackson and Champion kept clear of trouble on the final day of the marathon rally to rack up their first-ever Safari win. Although it was Porsche’s third win on the world’s toughest rally, it was also the first victory for a Briton (and indeed a man from Yorkshire) in what has previously remained a preserve of hosts Kenyans and Swedes. “It was a deserved victory after facing strong opposition but we are happy to have driven our machine safely back home,” said Jackson after driving his car to the podium at Sarova Whitesands Beach Hotel. “This was one of the toughest rallies. We had upcoming drivers who wanted to prove to the old guards that they were ready for the challenge. In general, it was a competitive rally,” said Jackson. Tundo said: “It was a very competitive rally and our happiness was to drive the machine back at the podium. I congratulate all those who participated since they kept us moving. Our focus is the KNRC rally to be held in Nakuru next weekend. Kenya Airways East Africa Rally is now behind us.” Tundo led the event at the penultimate stage on Thursday but his aspirations for a maiden title were dealt a major blow after the stewards upheld the appeal by a majority to cancel CS20 which the Kenyan had gained advantage by going through. With a massive margin to his rivals, the Yorkshire-based Jackson was able to cruise through the day’s final three stages on their way to victory. Baldev Chager, another multiple former Kenyan champion, motored to seal the podium dash, as Geoff Bell and Jonathan Somen savored fourth and fifth positions respectively. Chager said: “It was a technical and challenging rally. We had to work as a team with my crew and I thank them for their tireless efforts to ensure the car was in a perfect condition.” “It was a cat and mouse rally. We led after Stage One but positions kept on changing to the last day. Losing and winning is part of the sport,” he added. Chager also said the mood of the rally changed after the death of the rally director Jaideep Vohra who died in a road accident. “He was very instrumental to the rally and his demise affected the entire mood of the rally,” he observed. Tundo and Richard had identical times of 901.55 minutes while Chager- trailed in 922.22 minutes.