Ninety-two Kenyans were killed and 247 injured or tortured in the aftermath of the chaotic August 8 and October 26 repeat presidential polls, a human rights report says. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights report released yesterday reveals 10 of the 92 killed by police and civilians were children, some aged below five years. Related content : Police raped, abetted sexual assault during poll protests - Human Rights Watch KNCHR chairperson Kagwiri Mbogori presided over the launch of a 111-page report titled Still a Mirage. It detailed election violence after the repeat presidential poll. The report says the victims were not only street protesters, but also residents whose homes were raided. “The KNCHR noted that the use of force by police was rampant in the October repeat presidential election and unlike the August 8 poll period, civilians too armed themselves with daggers and pangas and became active perpetrators of electoral violence,” Mbogori said. Eighty-six cases of sexual and gender-based violence,particularly rape, in Nairobi, were recorded, the report says. “During the repeat election period, the commission documented 35 deaths resulting from post-poll violence between September 1 and October. Three of the dead were children, two were women, while the rest were men between the ages of 18 and 50 years approximately,” Mbogori said. She added that all the victims, except the two women, died from gunshot wounds to the head and chest. The commission recommends that Ipoa investigate deaths and grievous harm on citizens by police. It also asks DPP Keriako Tobiko to order thorough investigations and prosecute perpetrators of killings and brutality. Also read : Probe post-poll police killings, urges Human Rights Watch Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has been asked to investigate the killings, injuries, acts of torture and destruction of property during the election period. The report states that more than 111 cases of injured persons, including children as young as five years, were recorded from the chaos witnessed in the repeat election. The results saw President Uhuru Kenyatta reclaim his seat with a 98 per cent win after the withdrawal of NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. The commission documented 57 deaths in its first report released in the aftermath of the August 8 election violence. Click here for the latest political news 