The NASA leaders head for a retreat in mid-January to unveil their calendar of events, including what insiders claim will be the swearing-in of principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the People’s President and Deputy President. ODM chairman John Mbadi said on Friday the retreat was on the cards and the alliance’s captains shall unveil the details on Tuesday. “We’ve not decided on the venue of the retreat and the exact dates, but the principals will communicate to their parties on Tuesday next week,” he said. Read: We won’t lie low until polls talks are held, says Kalonzo Related: Without talks Raila and I will be sworn in, Kalonzo tells Uhuru NASA leaders are playing their cards close to their chest amid fears that details of the planned meeting could be used against them by the state. The outfit has vowed to use the activities to push out President Uhuru Kenyatta from power after the disputed October 26 election rerun. They say the end game is secession if Uhuru refuses to step down. “The retreat is meant to push the NASA agenda and ensure its teams understand each other, the activities ahead and the endgame of everything being put in place,” Mbadi said. An insider said, “We will also audit the coalition activities as we move forward.” Governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs, MCAs and party officials will attend the meeting. NASA will use the occasion to heal emerging rifts with regard to those appointed to top House posts. ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya had claimed the list that had John Mbadi as Minority leader was not approved by the alliance’s parliamentary group. Read: I'm ready to pay for treason, Raila says after meeting envoys In the six-month calendar of events, NASA wants to enhance the economic boycott, reach out to the global leaders and increase street protests to exert pressure on Uhuru’s regime. The calendar also has details of the county assemblies that do not recognise Uhuru and the People’s Assemblies, which they expect to hold across the country. “As stated earlier by NASA, no one will ever think of stealing an election in this country again,” Mbadi said. ANC and Wiper have held their retreats and ODM was considering having its own retreat before the umbrella retreat. “We’ll have back-to-back retreats for ODM and NASA,” Mbadi said. “The calendar shows when we are swearing in Raila and Kalonzo and the way forward. It also has the endgame of the whole process.” Related: 'Constitution my foot': Raila asks US to stop interfering with Kenya's affairs Click here for the latest political news  