Masinde Muliro vice chancellor Fredrick Otieno has said he is ready and willing to be investigated over claims of abuse of office. On November 10, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission wrote to the university council chairman, Jeremy Bundi, recommending Otieno’s suspension over alleged abuse of office, embezzlement of funds and employment irregularities. Otieno denied the claims. Addressing a press conference at the institution on Wednesday, Otieno said he had nothing to hide from investigators. He said that the matter was being handled by the council. “I was the first person to ask the council to invite the EACC to conduct an audit of this institution. I couldn’t be the one calling for an audit when I have stolen money from the university,” Otieno said. He said he had preferred a forensic audit of the entire institution, instead of singling out individuals for investigation. “An audit has already been carried out by an independent team which recommended that specific people be investigated further. We are ready to cooperate with the investigators and provide all the documents they need,” Otieno said. He said that those sacked for various reasons were behind the scheme to cast the institution in bad light. “Remember corruption fights back,” Otieno told journalists during the university’s annual briefing in his boardroom on Wednesday. He dismissed reports that he unilaterally demoted staff who did not toe his line. “As a VC, I am never involved in hiring of staff,” he said. He said that staff transfer was a normal mode of deployment in many organisations. Otieno said he had streamlined operations at the university since taking over in December 2013. He said he inherited a Sh1.1 bilion debt owed to the Kenya Revenue Authority and another Sh400 million owed to suppliers. “The university is currently up to date on statutory remittances. We have paid the suppliers and we are continuing to pay KRA its outstanding dues. I believe that Masinde Muliro is the best-managed university in the country,” Otieno said. He credited himself with the regularisation and accreditation of the university’s engineering courses by the Commission for University Education. Otieno said students who had graduated earlier have been registered with the Engineers Registration Board for market validation. They will, however, go through remedial classes for a year before being recognised by the board. He said that the institution had also completed the construction of an anatomy laboratory in readiness for commencement of sessions at the School of Medicine. The medical school is set to admit its first batch of students in September.