DID Borabu MP Ben Momanyi on Wednesday exchange harsh words with a senior NASA official in Parliament? Well, it is said that the Wiper MP, unhappy with the NASA House leadership decision to lock him out of the lucrative Parliamentary Service Commission, threw barbs at his senior. The MP is alleged to have accosted the senior opposition leader in the corridors of Parliament and demanded to know why his name was allegedly expunged from the PSC list. “Wiper will teach NASA a bitter lesson, just wait and see,” thundered the MP, who was furious with the decision. Is this a ticking time bomb for the alliance? DID Githeriman receive his Head of State Commendation award on Tuesday after his name featured on the recipients' list? Well, Corridors has learned that the man who gained national traction after queuing with githeri to vote on August 8 was unreachable and the Honours Advisory Committee had a fruitless search for him days to Jamhuri Day. It is said the man hardly keeps a phone or a number due to his huge thirst for local brews. Our mole has told Corridors Githeriman got wind of the news on Jamhuri Day that he was among persons President Uhuru Kenyatta was to fete – on that day. Filled with enthusiasm, the man took a taxi straight to State House, but, having no clearance card, State House security denied him entry, despite his dropping the githeri line, hoping that the uncompromising security officers would allow him to go and shake Uhuru's hand. LOBBYING for EALA was headed for its climax on Wednesday, and word has it that colossal sums of money changed hands fast and furious in Parliament. Our mole tells Corridors that MPs kept chasing after very 'generous' EALA nominees, buying them 'lunch' in exchange for their vote to the regional assembly. Our mole said the MPs particularly hunted for a stinking rich Jubilee nominee, who was dishing out as much as Sh60,000 per legislator. “Has [name withheld] given you lunch? He is seated in the Member's Lounge," one MP was overheard telling his colleague. Suna East Junet Mohamed said nominees were generously greasing the palms of the Honourable Members. A top State official, who has been on a spree of buying hotels, land and other property, is said to be expanding his empire and now venturing into the Coast region. Word has it that the bubbly, daring and hubristic official is bargaining for a top North Coast hotel estimated to cost Sh2.8 billion. Our mole at the hotel, owned by brothers, told us the deal might be sealed before the year ends.          