Amid
the general wailing and gnashing of teeth that surrounds the millennial
discussion, one occasionally happens upon something sensible.  I’ve
been reading about how the online entertainment brand Netflix sets expectations
for employee contribution. It’s surprisingly hardline; and contains lessons
for all employers.  Regular
readers know that I believe the best way to deal with the millennial challenge
is to gradually adjust your leadership style and management process to proof
them against the future. In 10 years’ time, the bulk of the workforce will be millennials,
so the challenge is not going to go away. But that doesn’t mean you should give
away the initiative. I
admire Netflix because it ignores the empty value statements that reflect the
lazy thinking at the top of so many companies. Statements filled with pointless
words like innovation, integrity, transparency and accountability.   These
are words that whole sectors of our economy use because … everybody else does.
They are anodyne and ineffective - because there’s no spirit attached to them. Employees,
as human beings, will always react more strongly to emotional than to rational
cues. Patty
McCord, the previous chief talent officer at Netflix, made two statements in
the opening to her values piece. One emotional, one rational:  “We’re like a pro sports team, not a kids’
recreation team.” “At
Netflix, you don’t get rewarded for hard work, you get rewarded for results.” The
Netflix manifesto goes on to state explicitly that “adequate performance gets a
generous severance package.” They don’t recognise people for long hours, or for
turning up to work for 15 years. They don’t reward participation because they
are business that intends to win. Does
that mean top performers who put in shorter hours at Netflix are tolerated? Yes,
they are rewarded with more responsibility and big pay increases. Netflix’s
loyalty to employees is not absolute. They don’t mince words.  “People who have been stars and hit a bad
patch get a near-term pass because they are likely to become stars again. But
unlimited loyalty to an ineffective employee is not what we are about.” This
seems harsh, and maybe it is. Here in Africa I hope that we can develop more
productive organisational cultures without parting company with humanity.
Humanity we have in spades, and we may be the last Continent on the planet to
enjoy that bounty.  Netflix
rewards people for delivering results, not just for effort. And that’s a good
thing. No business can thrive without delivering results. So, let’s take a
healthy pinch of that attitude and start to think about how best we can apply
it in our local context.  