National Land Commission vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe yesterday said 5,153 illegally acquired title deeds have been revoked. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, she said thousands more have not been reverted from private developers. Mukolwe said the commission will not rest until all grabbed public land is returned. She said they have resolved more than 500 long-standing land disputes. “Some of these cases date back to the time we gained Independence. We dealt with them through the alternative dispute resolution mechanism,” she said. Read : Cancelled Kwale title deeds not issued by Uhuru - Swazuri NLC, which is mandated to manage public land on behalf of the national and county governments, repossessed parcels worth billions of shillings that had been grabbed in July. In Karura Forest, NLC revoked 151 illegally acquired title deeds. In 2015, the Kenya Forest Service complained to the commission about encroachment on the forest. Between 1994 and 1999, an estimated 2,000 acres of Karura was illegally hived off and sold. Another 102 titles in Nairobi’s Woodley Estate were also revoked. She said the commission will not hesitate to crack the whip if it finds forged land documents. Mukolwe said the NLC still has a lot of ground to cover. She urged Parliament to extend its mandate. The NLC’s term expires in February 2019. Land for institutions such as KARLO, the Prisons Department and Department of Housing, among others, is still in private hands, she said. Also read : NLC revokes title deeds issued by Uhuru to 'foreigners' at Kwale scheme Mukolwe said lack of funding has made it impossible for NLC to equip their offices in the 47 counties and in raising awareness on the new land laws. “The other challenge we face is people going to court seeking orders to block the commission from doing its work,” she said. Mukolwe said the NLC has evaluated phase one of the standard gauge railway and is working on phase two, which will soon be gazetted. She said compensation for the first phase of the SGR was at least Sh25 billion.Mukolwe said the NLC addressed the Thwake Dam controversy and the transport corridor between JKIA and Limuru. She said land cases are often emotive and the NLC trained eight of its commissioners as mediators to resolve disputes. They include the commission’s CEO Tom Chavangi, Mukolwe, Abdulkadir Khalif, Samuel Tororei and the legal services team. Mukolwe urged Kenyans to use the alternative dispute resolution mechanism. She said it takes less time and requires less resources. The NLC has also been addressing historical land injustices, she said. In October, the NLC published rules that will guide investigations into historical land injustices. Commissioner Tororei chairs the task force for historical land injustices. The guidelines are in the Kenya Gazette Supplement of October 6. Click here for the latest political news 