Jubilee politicians have give NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi 24 hours to apologise to the Bukusu fraternity for a chaotic incident involving minister Eugene Wamalwa. Opposition supporters forced the Water Cabinet Secretary to leave the Maragoli Cultural Festival saying they did not want a Jubilee leader at the function. On Tuesday, Gatundu South legislator Moses Kuria pointed the finger at Mudavadi, saying he hired youths who caused trouble. More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos Also read: What did you gain? Moses Kuria asks Mudavadi after CS Wamalwa drama Two MPs and several MCAs in Bungoma have threatened revenge - by keeping the ANC leader off Bungoma and Trans Nzoia - where many members of the Bukusu community live. MPs John Waluke (Sirisia) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) also accused the Amani boss of being behind the incident. Addressing the press at Satellite hotel in Vihiga county on Wednesday, they said the disorder was "well-planned" to make it seem that Western residents had rejected the CS. ‘We know Luhyas are one and peace-loving. That’s why we are called the Mulembe nation. That was an act of shame and cowardice," said Waluke. Residents, leaders and analysts in the region have predicted the renewal of rivalry between Bukusus and Maragolis and warned the Luhya community's gains could be eroded. "We never expected a leader of Mudavadi's stature to cause such silly things and resort to moves such as classifying Maragolis, Tirikis and Bukusus that have caused Luhyas to lose respect," said one who did not want to be named. "Waluke said Jubilee leaders want Mudavadi to apologise or else he is not going to step in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia. We know Eugene came out strongly to support him in 2013 when he wanted the presidency. "We know this year he and my senator Moses Wetang'ula came out to deceive Luhyas on going for the presidency. They were even given money and did not tell Luhyas why they back-stepped and began to support Raila." Waluke threatened to take action against Mudavadi for the "shameful and barbaric act". ‘We welcomed him to Bungoma during the burial of the wife of Webuye East MP Alfred Sambu, who is a member his party. How come he allowed youths to shame our leader?" The MP called upon Mudavadi to decamp from NASA and join Jubilee "where there is development". "We do not want stupid NASA things in Western. We need so much development, not the daily politicking along tribal lines," the lawmaker said. "We will keep on supporting Eugene because all Luhyas have declared he is going to be DP William Ruto's running mate in the 2022 presidential race." Mabonga said the incident was "uncalled for and uncivilised in this era". "The Bible says we should be our brother's keeper. Is Mudavadi truly the brother of Western leaders? If you walk through Vihiga, you will not get a single Bukusu but here in Bungoma there are many Maragolis and some got elected as MCAs." The MP added that if Mudavadi and Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi are true Luhya leaders, they should call Eugene and apologise. The MPs also asked NCIC chairman Francis Ole Kaparo to take action against Mudavadi. Click here for the latest political stories