Suyian ranch director Girfled Powys was trampled to death by an elephant on Wednesday afternoon. Richard Chepkwony, the senior Kenya Wildlife Service warden in charge of Laikipia county, and police commander Simon Kipkeu confirmed the attack. They said it occurred near a watering point at around 1.30pm. The property is in Laikipia North sub-county. Kipkeu said the rancher got out of his car and walked a distance towards a dam when the animal charged. Chepkwony told The Star on phone: "I communicated to Josh Perrett, the manager of the neighbouring Mugie ranch and he confirmed it. The area has poor mobile phone network coverage so I am yet to get finer details." Laikipia Farmers Association chairperson Martin Evans said he had received the report and sent someone to the ranch for details. Powys will be remembered for telling off politicians for allegedly inciting herders to invade their farms. He claimed politicians promised the herders relocation to their land if they got elected but noted they would not be leaving the country. During Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nanyuki stadium last year, the director said ranchers in the county are Kenyans as that is the only home they know. Powys further said the politicians claimed they would evict white farmers' families yet they had lived on their properties for 102 years. He noted youths were being misled at the expense of development. At the fete, county commissioner Onesmus Musyoki warned leaders against inciting violence or cosmetic clashes in the region in the guise of helping their communities access pasture. Musyoki and then Governor Joshua Irungu warned stern action would be taken against any leaders who would issue statements that would ignite disharmony among resident communities. The security committee chairman said the security situation had stabilised after clashes between local communities and migrant herders from neighbouring counties. Musyoki further said an operation was already in place and that the government would deal firmly with anybody who tried to cause division. He said those who invaded private farms would be evicted with as much force as they employed. Click here for fresh political news