Lugari MP Ayub Savula has no rights and powers to castigate Opposition leader Raila Odinga over the oath plan, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has said. Savula had asked the NASA leader to abandon his ‘swearing in’ bid and focus on grooming ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi for presidency in 2022. He asked Raila to forget the presidency and put all his eggs in Mudavadi’s basket.  Read: Father of the nation? Yash Ghai asks Raila to refrain from swearing in But in his response, Malala on Sunday told journalists that the Lugari MP was issuing his own statement and not that of the party. "Savula has no powers to issue such statements. We are in NASA and in NASA to the end. Savula statement that he castigated Raila attest to this skim of ambitions." "He is not the party leader. He has confirmed the link between ANC cartels and Jubilee," the legislator said. Malala said ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has performed very well in NASA and is not leaving soon. "Mudavadi has performed very well in and we will not allow a few individuals to take us back to Jubilee," he said. Read: We'll not leave NASA, Malala says amid row on House committee slots He urged Mudavadi to be steadfast in pushing for electoral justice as he has been doing with the NASA coalition. "...looking back will be betrayal to NASA supporters. We reject evil plans to clandestine individuals. Members must have a say in everything," he said. 'Grassroot elections' Malala further said that effective January, the party will conduct elections to rid it of cartels. "We will start a process of democracy in the party. We want an institution that promotes democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of all members," he said. He said the elections will be a process to ensure credible and strong leaders are elected at grass root and national election. "All positions will be contested apart from the position of the party leader. ANC cannot operate on interim leadership," he said. Malala said the party has to be strengthened as they prepare Mudavadi to contest for the presidency. 'Name and shame cartels' Malala further said the party has been experiencing unhealthy internal challenges due to political disorganisation caused by cartels with proximity to Mudavadi. "It is this cartel that has caused the political noise. Loss of EALA seat and dismal performance of parliamentary leadership should not be blamed on the constituent parties," he said. He said the party lost due to internal wrangles and indiscipline from some individuals who he will name in two weeks time. "We are giving them two weeks and we will name the cartels who want ANC to join Jubilee" Malala said.  On December 22, Malala asked Amani National Congress members to stick with NASA despite the row on the distribution of leadership positions in the National Assembly. He said the wrangles in the coalition over the positions is not founded in any fact but is being propelled by those with selfish ambitions. This was after ODM party was accused of single-handedly reaching the decision on sharing of parliamentary committee slots without involving ANC, Wiper, and Ford Kenya. The parties are headed by Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula respectively. Read: Discord in NASA as ODM elbows out ANC for PAC   Click here for the latest political news