The High Court has temporarily stopped debate and approval of 10 executives nominated by Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba. The injunction was issued on Thursday by the court in Kapenguria. Petitioners argued the nominees were not qualified. The case was filed under certificate of urgency. The order was served to Trans Nzoia assembly clerk Inea Indakwa and the county government. The list of the 10 nominees was to be tabled and discussed on Thursday by the county assembly. There was drama after a court official, who brought the order to the office of the county assembly clerk, was “roughed-up” by serjeant-at-arms Nicholas Nandasaba. A video clip recorded with a phone showed Nandasaba pulling the coat off the court official and blocking him from entering the office of the assembly clerk.  “Wachana na mimi (leave me alone),” the court official told Nandasaba.  Nandasaba was heard telling him “you are not going anywhere.” The Star established that in the scuffle, the original order was torn. Later on, the clerk was served with another original order after a photocopy was rejected. The order was issued after two petitioners William Andiema and Gregory Ngeiwa moved to court to challenge the names. Petitioners complained that some nominees were allocated dockets that they were not professionally qualified to handle. They also petitioned that youths, who are majority in the county, were not given any slots. All the nominees are aged above 35 years. Other issues included the exclusion of the Iteso community. “This is a complete disregard of the resolution of the Mabanga Peace Conference, involving the Luhya, Iteso and Sabaots. The seats were to be equitably distributed among the communities,” the petition reads. Speaking to the media on Thursday, Saboti MCA David Kapoloman said they will wait until the matter is resolved before discussing the list. “We have been given 14 days for the petition to be heard and determined,” he said. The petition will be heard at the High Court in Kitale on Monday. Nominees are Mary Nzomo in the Agriculture docket, Isaac Kogo (Education), Maurice Lokwaliwa (Water) and Clare Namenge (Public Service). The others are Susan Nelima (Lands), Christine Tanguli (Health), Simeon Cheserek (Trade), Aggrey Chemonges (Gender, Youth, Sports, Culture and Tourism), Caiphas Wafula (Public Works) and Boniface Wanyonyi (Finance).