As the chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, I support the push for Africa to trade more with the world. However, I am convinced that before Africa can trade more with the world, it must first trade more with itself. Intra-African trade is still unacceptably low at around 12 per cent of Africa’s total trade volumes, according to the African Development Bank. In contrast, regional trade in the European Union stands at around 70 per cent, while in North America it is around 40 per cent. Evidently, Africa has a lot of catching up to do. One of the most powerful mechanisms for boosting intra-African trade is regional economic integration. This is what Kenya, along with her regional partners, have been trying to achieve through the East African Community for more than two decades. We have attained some notable milestones in areas such as free movement of people within the EAC, and the bloc was feted by the AfDB in 2014 as the most progressive bloc in Africa. However, recent developments in East Africa could undo all this progress. Tanzania, an EAC member state, has been increasingly hostile towards Kenya, triggering a series of diplomatic and trade rows that have soured relations in recent months. In October, Tanzania seized and auctioned 1,300 Kenyan cattle that had been driven across the border during a routine seasonal search for pasture. This was inappropriate. Cultural dispute resolution would have helped address cross-border infringement in view of the strong cultural ties between cross-border communities such as the Maasai. The Maasai way of life on both sides of the Kenya-Tanzania border needs to be preserved as it predates the formation of existing country borders, which were set up in the 1880s by the colonialists from Europe. The recent burning of 6,400 Kenyan day-old chicks by Tanzanian authorities because they allegedly had bird flu is another glaring example of how Tanzania is frustrating diplomatic and trade relations. Tanzania has in recent years been extremely petty and has frustrated Kenyan business people and employees, leading to a decline in trade volume. In the first five months of 2017, Kenyan exports to Tanzania declined to Sh8.2 billion from Sh12.5 billion a year earlier, according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. This represents a 33 per cent decline in trade volumes in a span of barely one year, which is alarming considering Tanzania is one of Kenya’s largest export destinations. Such a sharp decline in trade volumes over a notably short period of time suggests that there may be political undercurrents at play. Relations between Tanzania and Kenya have historically been tense, but it appears things took a turn for the worse when President John Magufuli ascended to power two years ago. It is no secret that there has been an uneasy relationship between President Kenyatta and President Magufuli due to the latter’s perceived closeness to Hon Raila Odinga. This mistrust needs to be addressed or efforts to achieve deeper regional economic integration will be seriously strained. Equally important is the need for Kenyans and Tanzanians to accord each other the respect without which no meaningful dialogue is possible. As Kenyans we need to be sensitive to the Tanzanian cultural disposition, which is less aggressive. We also need to portray the image of a friendly neighbour to dispel any fears they may have. Kenya and Tanzania have had a complicated relationship since both countries attained independence. The standoff began in the 1960s with the 1967 Arusha Declaration that established Tanzania as a socialist state, putting it at odds with Kenya, which had adopted a capitalist economic model. After Tanzania came to terms with the errors of socialism in the 1980s, it found itself having to play second fiddle to Kenya, which had already made significant headway under capitalism. This ushered in a period of competition between the two states. Though this competition has at times been healthy, at other times it has sown seeds of suspicion and mistrust between the two countries. We need to move past this myopia and see the bigger picture. Economic prosperity in our two countries need not be a zero-sum game. Tanzania and Kenya need to embrace a collective vision for economic prosperity in the region by facilitating free movement of goods and pursuing stronger trade relations. We need to move past recent issues. The future of the EAC depends on this as any new spat may be the straw that breaks the camel’s back.  National chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry          