David Ndii's wife has condemned police for the manner in which they handled the NASA strategist's arrest. Mwende Gatabaki has accused police of violating the law and invading their privacy by conducting a search of their room without documents required by law. Mwende said they were in Mombasa with their 11-year-old daughter for their nephew's wedding when officers came calling. “My husband and daughter were on their way to the dining room when they saw two tinted cars parked outside the hotel...two men came out of the car and said they want to have a word with him. “When they walked towards the reception, other men who were armed came and said they wanted to have a word with my husband...my daughter came to the room and informed me that police were taking her dad away. “They allowed him to make a few calls as I sat on top of a table...they kept telling him they had to go in the shortest time possible," she told a press conference in Kwale on Monday. Read: David Ndii arrested in Kwale over People's assembly Also read: NASA leaders barred from DCI after David Ndii arrest Mwende said she asked the man in-charge of the operation to identify himself and that she took his ID number and other details. “The man told us they were taking my husband to Diani police station. They kept calling him a suspect but never spoke of his crime. “We took a taxi to the station but found out they did not go there and that they did not have any intention to do so….the man lied to me...I found that very unprofessional." Ndii's wife said officers at the station tried to detain her before proceeding to search their hotel room. “The police officers at the station said they needed to search our room...I asked them for a search warrant but they did not have any," she said. “Later, they processed a notice of search so we went to the room where they ransacked my suitcases. They saw a woman's clothes but proceeded with the search...when they did not find anything, they asked me for computers. “I told them we came for a holiday and left our computers in Nairobi...they told us to go back to the police station and designed a search certificate...this was at around 10.30pm. Mwende said the officers asked her to sign a statement but did not disclose her husband's whereabouts. “I told them that since they asked me to sign a statement, I had to know where my husband was. They threatened to arrest me when I insisted...they changed their tone after Winnie Odinga came and talked to them. We were then released." Mwende criticised the President saying he has forgotten how he reached out to the family at the height of the Westgate Mall terror attack crisis. The woman said Uhuru Kenyatta called her to create a database of all people in Kenya, land, firms, their directors and other information which would help the war against terrorism. “He contacted African Development Bank asking for me to develop the database...he called me, I am an IT expert..." she said. “Where is that gentleman who called me in 2014 to help create the database which he called 'the single source of truth'?” she asked Uhuru, adding he asked her to return to Kenya. Click here for the latest political stories  