Haki Africa has criticised Nema for allowing manufacturers to continue using plastic bags. In a letter addressed to director general Geoffrey Wahungu on Friday, HAKI Africa executive director Khalid Hussein said Nema is being unfair by arresting and charging the public and letting manufacturers free. The plastic bags ban took effect on August 28.  “Wananchi welcomed the plastic ban, and were ready to abide by it,” Hussein said. He asked Nema to be fair to all Kenyans and prosecute everyone equally and not favour the rich and powerful. “The right to a clean and safe environment must be guaranteed by the government. All plastic bags, whether by industries, should be banned,” Khalid said in the letter. Read: Plastics ban: What other countries have done   He said the ban is clear that anyone carrying, selling or manufacturing the plastic bags will get a jail term of two years or pay a Sh2 million-Sh4 million fine. The lobby also raised concerns that some firms are still packaking bread and their products in plastic bags despite the ban. environment. Nema chief cooperate manager Evans Nyabuto, however, said some manufactures have been exempted from the plastic bags ban as plastic cannot be removed totally. “Certain manufactures have to write a letter of exemption under which there are conditions to follow in that the packaging should have the address of the company,” he said. Plastic bags used in primary packaging for example bread and sweets have been exempted from the ban. He denied claims that Nema is being biased by setting free some manufactures and arrest individual Kenyans. “There are many cases of manufactures who have been arrested and have been charged. It’s just that individual Kenyans are many than the manufactures and that is when it looks like they are the only ones being arrested,” Nyabuto said. Before the ban took effect, the government made clear that it was not a total ban. On August 24 the environment PS Charles Sunkuli said industrial primary packaging would still use the plastic bags. “For instance bread, sweets and sausages packaging will still continue using the polythene bags,” the PS said before the ban took effect. Click here for latest political news