Lack of proper shoes, equipment and a javelin coach has not deterred national Under-18 javelin champion Ita Nao Leshan from pursuing his dream of challenging his mentor Julius Yego and breaking his national record. “If I get proper shoes, right training equipment and a javelin coach, I will do well. I’m determined and I will not look back as I seek to compete against Olympic silver medallist and former world champion Yego who is my mentor,” Leshan said. He said he is keenly following Yego who trained by watching videos on YouTube, which later earned him the tag ‘YouTube Man’. The Form Two student at Ololunga High in Narok County, who uses running spikes said the area Governor Samuel Tunai promised to buy for him a 700g javelin which is meant for juniors but he is yet to fulfill his promise. In his latest competition, Leshan finished third during the third Athletics Kenya track and field weekend meeting which concluded at Kisii University on Saturday with a best throw of 63.65m. Duncan Kinyanjui won with a throw of 64:69 while Michael Rono was second with 63:69m. Leshan aged 18 finished fourth in the first weekend meet in Kisumu. He has a personal best of 64.66m which he set during the world under 18 in Nairobi in July. Leshan is in the meantime training in Kericho under athletics coach Japheth Kemei with the IAAF World U-20 Championships to be held as from July 19 to 24 in Tampere, Finland in his mind. “My target is to meet the qualifying standards for World U- 20. Before the national trials, my aim is to have a throw of between 70m and 75m. I did well in Kisumu and Kisii competing against my seniors who have coaches, the right shoes and train with good facilities,” he said. The qualifying standard for javelin is 68.70m, according to the International Association of Athletics Federations. “I want to thank coach Kemei and the coaches who trained us during the World Under-18 Championships in Nairobi. That was an eye opener,” said Leshan. During theevent, Yego felt Leshan would have done better if he was given the right shoes and slammed AK for failing the youngster. Athletics Kenya (AK) youth chairman Barnabas Korir, however, defended the federation and blamed the Local Organizing Committee for late procurement of equipment.