The year 2017 has been characterised by grand changes aimed at improving the quality of education. The changes include a new education curriculum, introduction of free secondary education, 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools, change in textbooks distribution to schools and free sanitary towels for girls. The implementation of the new curriculum is set to start next month. This was after the piloting phase of two terms in 470 lower primary schools was completed. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development says the new curriculum will give every child in Kenya an opportunity to excel. The teachers will also be empowered to approach teaching and assessment in a more effective way that will ensure high quality education. The new system will next year cover nursery schools, and standards one, two and three. It places emphasis on continuous assessment tests, commonly know as CATs, not the main exam. In 2019, the system is expected to be rolled out in standard four to six and in 2020 it will cover standards seven, eight and form one. In 2021, the system will be extended to form two only and in the following year it will cover form three. In 2023, it will be rolled out in form four. new education system The new system replaces the current standard one to form four with Grade 1 to Grade 12. It has been categorised into three phases. They are Early Years Education covering nursery education to Grade 3, Middle School Education covering Grade 4 to Grade 9 and Senior School covering Grade 10 to 12. The framework outlined by the KICD states that by the time learners complete early years education, they should be able to demonstrate basic literacy and numeracy skills and communicate appropriately using verbal and/or non-verbal modes. Under upper primary, learners will be exposed to a broad curriculum and given an opportunity to explore and experiment. According to the framework, at Grade 4, learners will be introduced to the optional subjects offered at upper primary to make informed choices at Grade 7. “Graduates of primary school Grade 6 shall join lower secondary at Grade 7. Lower secondary will expose the learners to a broad-based curriculum to enable them to explore their abilities, personality and potential as a basis for choosing subjects according to career paths of interest at senior school,” KICD chief executive Julius Jwan told the Star. In the senior school category, learners in the age bracket of 15 to 17 years will spend three years. This level lays the foundation for further education and training at the tertiary level. Students in secondary school will also specialise in the subjects they wish to pursue in tertiary institutions. A student will take two core subjects irrespective of the pathway identified. They include community service learning covering life skills, citizenship, entrepreneurship, financial literacy and research and physical education. “The pathways provide the learner with opportunities to begin specialisation in a specific area of personality, interest, ability and career choice,” Jwan said. The year 2017 will go down in history as the year all students who sat the KCPE exam will transition to secondary schools. The government is opening day wings in boarding schools on a trial basis starting next year to achieve a 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. The trial will begin in Nairobi, because of its cosmopolitan nature and will involve extra-county and county schools.  Sh25 billion for programme In making day secondary education free, the government scrapped Sh9,374 school fees. The government has allocated Sh25 billion for the programme and will begin implementation starting January 2018. This means each learner in public schools will from next year receive Sh22,224 from the government. However, parents will buy school uniforms and pay for lunch for day scholars. Those in boarding schools will be required to cater for extra charges for accommodation. Students in national and county schools will be required to pay not more than Sh53,554 a year and those in extra-county schools will pay Sh40,535 school fees. The policy changes in issuing textbooks to schools will enable the government to directly buy the books and distribute them to schools. Students who will be joining secondary school in January 2018 will get six textbooks upon admission. They are Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, Chemistry, Biology and Physics textbooks. In distribution of sanitary towels, the state shifted the programme from the Education ministry to the Public Service ministry. Read: Why new education curriculum is triumph for Kenya’s children Click here for the latest political news