The Anti-Corruption Court yesterday ordered that the Sh60 million graft case against Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya and two others be heard on March 15, 2018 without further delay.  Milimani trial magistrate Felix Kombo fixed the hearing date after parties agreed to have the matter proceed. It had failed to take off on three previous occasions. On November 20, the matter was put off after the court was informed that defence lawyers were engaged in petition cases. The Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko has since rejected a plea by Kimunya to have the case settled out of court. Senior state counsel Daniel Karuri informed the court that he was ready to proceed with two witnesses.  Earlier officer with ministry of Agriculture at Kinangop district, Joseph Wathinja Wanuma testified who testified in the case informed trial magistrate that farmers in Kinangop, Nyandarua county did not benefit in any way from the activities of Midlands Ltd which is alleged to have bought 25 acres of land from Settlement Fund Trustee. The officer was testifying in a case in which Kimunya who is also a former finance minister is jointly charged alongside who is char Lilian Njenga, a director of Land Adjudication and Settlement, and Jughae Wainaina, chairman of Midlands Ltd, a company associated with the MP. All of them are accused of abuse of office by fraudulently disposing of public property worth Sh60 million. Wanuma being led in his evidence in chief by senior state counsel Lilian Obuo said that he has never seen any transfer papers showing how the 25 acres of land was transferred from Settlements Funds Trustee to Midlands. The court heard Settlements funds trustee was holding the land for Njambini. The witness said that he has no idea who are the directors of Midlands which allegedly bought the disputed land. "The land has been transferred to Midlands Ltd by Settlement Funds Trustee Ltd. I did not know if the owners of the land had capacity to transfer the said land," said the witness. During cross-examination by the defence he said there is no record showing there was any title deed transferred to Wainaina. Wanuma further said that Wainaina was not a beneficiary of the land.  Obuo, had told the court the plea to settle out of court was rejected because it was a public interest case. The Nyandarua county government wanted the case settled. The Nyandarua county government had urged the court to withdraw the case against the three, saying they have recognised the importance of Midlands Ltd as an industry with tremendous importance to the county for agriculture development. “The government, through the Agriculture ministry, should withdraw the complaint on the land allocated to Midlands,” said the defence  They have denied seven counts of abuse of office, failing to disclose a private interest to one’s principal, and fraudulent disposal of public property. The prosecution alleges that in June 2005, Kimunya and Njenga allegedly allocated to Midlands 25 acres of public land. Kimunya is accused of failing to disclose he was a director of Midland and not protecting public property. Njenga is accused of disposing of public property, while Wainaina is accused of fraudulently acquiring public property registered in the name of Settlement Fund Trustee. Wainaina and Midlands are accused of fraudulent acquisition of public property on February 6, 2006, in Nairobi county.