The county government has come up with a Sh100 million kitty for women, youth and disabled persons to borrow and start small businesses to uplift their living standards. Governor Ali Korane on Tuesday said the funds have already been budgeted for and approved by the county assembly. He regretted that these groups havebeen neglected for long, despite the law being very clear on what their rightful share in both the national and county governments are. He emphasised that they will get their rightful share in his administration. “The law is very clear. The women, youth and the disabled should be involved in the leadership of this county. We shall ensure that we stick and work within the law,” Korane said. He said that residents will from next week have the opportunity to criticise the County Integrated Development Plan. “I want to appeal to residents to come out and have their input taken into account when the county integrated development plan will be subjected to public participation,” he said. “Your input as the mwananchi who elected us into office is very important. I want all of us to move together in the development and prosperity of our great county,” he added. Korane warned a cartel that has been carving out and fencing off huge tracts of land for speculation purposes. “Garissa has no shortage of land. If anything, there is land enough for each and every resident in need,” he said. “However, a few greedy individuals have been fencing off huge tracts of land with the intention of selling it out to those in need of land,” he added. The governor said the cartel will be the biggest losers this time round, adding some of them have been using his name to acquire the land. “I want to make it public today that I have not given anyone permission to get land using my name. I want to warn these cartels that they will be the biggest losers when we start land demarcation soon,” he noted. Land speculators have been fencing off land especially in sections they suspect the Lapsset Corridor will pass so that they can benefit from the anticipated compensation.      