Kenyans will by Monday know why the Supreme Court upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta’s disputed October 26 re-election. The law allows the apex court 21 days, after the determination of a presidential petition, within which to prepare and deliver a detailed judgment.  The seven-judge bench will give reasons and explain how it arrived at a unanimous decision to dismiss two petitions that sought to challenge Uhuru’s October fresh election victory. The David Maraga-led court is said to have retreated to harmonise their judgment on different sections of the petition each judge was handling. They must deliver the full judgment not later than Monday as provided for in the presidential election petition rules. In a unanimous ruling, the Court upheld Uhuru’ re-election on November 20 and deferred the delivery of full judgment to a later date. In oneness of mind, the court found that petitioners Harun Mwau, Khelef Khalifa and Njonjo Mue failed to show the poll was so fundamentally flawed to warrant nullification. “The court has unanimously determined that the petitions are not merited and the final orders are that the petition by Mwau versus the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and two others as consolidated is hereby dismissed,” said the judges. “The petition by Njonjo Mue and another versus the chairperson of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and three others as consolidated is also hereby dismissed. As a consequence, the presidential election of October 26 is hereby upheld as is the election of Uhuru Kenyatta,” Chief Justice David Maraga said.  The judges will issue a detailed explanation addressing issues that came up during the hearing, including whether the IEBC broke the law in failing to hold fresh nominations ahead of the October 26 exercise. The judges will also explain whether the IEBC was within the law when it proceeded to declare Uhuru the duly elected President with four counties of Nyanza having failed to participate in the poll over violence.