NASA leader Raila Odinga has downplayed the transfers of secondary school principals saying it is not a solution to the mass failures reported in this year's KCSE. The former prime minister said the changes which were proposed by Education CS Fred Matiang'i to delocalise schools will not make a difference in the situation where only 11 per cent of the candidates attained university entry grades.  He described the results as the worst performance in the country's education history. Raila said: "The transfers of principals is a scheme by the government to shift the blame of the exams failure to teachers. It is only about trying to treat the symptoms and not the cause of
the disease." Close to 90 per cent of 615,773
candidates who sat the exams failed, a situation the opposition chief says must be probed, and suggested a task force to deal with the same. "The probe must find out why we had only ten per cent of our students passing the exams while 90 per cent failed miserably." Raila said: "It is sad and painful to speak about education in this country. The system as it is now is not helping the Kenyan pupils." He added that Matiang'i and PS Belio Kipsang owe Kenyans an explanation, adding that they are to blame for what our youths are going to go
through. The government, through the Ministry of Education, has effected a
major shake up targeting the heads of secondary schools across the
country. Read: Maranda principal Boaz Owino transferred as TSC effects major reshuffle The NASA leader spoke on Saturday during the burial of Webuye East MP Alfred Sambu's wife Jane at Marinda village in Ndivisi ward, Bungoma county.  Sambu's wife died from cancer at a Nairobi hospital. He eulogised her as a stronger pillar in his political life
who helped him make sound decisions. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and other Bungoma leaders were present at the burial. On politics, Raila maintained that his swearing in is unstoppable adding that Kenyans are running out of patience over the same. He said that much as NASA is ready for talks with Jubilee, time is elapsing and Kenyans are becoming bitter each passing day. "Our committee on my swearing in as people’s president will give the programme and the schedule on how things will be done to oversee the plan." ANC party leader Mudavadi said: "We will not have reconciliation and healing without electoral justice that has robbed Raila the presidency several times." "In NASA, we do not look at Mudavadi, Raila or Eugene being president but to ensure even a marginalised Wekesa can be a president of this country if he is qualified." Mudavadi said that the electoral injustice that has made Kenyans angry while living in a time bomb is one of the reasons they want to dialogue with Jubilee. Also read: Raila oath plan still on, judge and bible picked - NASA Read:Raila: I will carry the Bible, I must be sworn in   Click here for the latest political news  