NASA leader Raila Odinga has hit at the US for meddling with Kenya's affairs saying he does not recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as the president. Raila said on Thursday that Kenyans can solve their own problems so the US should not interfere by asking him to abide by the constitution. He maintained the coalition will not recognise Uhuru's inauguration following the Supreme Court decision upholding the October 26 election. "We don't recognise the swearing-in. We will go by the results of August 8 elections in which Kenyans expressed their will," he said. "We will not be intimidated...our friends can advise us but they should not shout at us about violating of the constitution...constitution my foot." The Opposition leader spoke when he joined families of those who died as police dispersed supporters who welcomed him back from the US on November 17. Others died when police stopped the coalition from holding a memorial service at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East constituency on November 28. This was the day Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto were sworn into office and when Raila declared he will become President of the People's Republic of Kenya on December 12. [VIDEO] I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says The US on Wednesday asked Raila to drop his swearing-in plan and pursue dialogue with Uhuru. Donald Yamamoto, US Acting Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, called for immediate, sustained, open and transparent national conversation. Read: Raila rejects US call to share power with Uhuru But Raila said: "Kenya itajengwa...kuapishwa kwangu kutafanyika kwa mkono wa wakenya, si wa wageni [Americans]. (Kenya will be developed...my swearing-in will be conducted by Kenyans, not foreigners).  He further castigated foreign envoys for failing to speak out against the brutality meted on his supporters by "trigger-happy police officers". NASA coalition has asked counties that favoured the People's Assembly motion to give dates for the ceremony to take place. Through his adviser Salim Lone, Raila has also said he will meet Uhuru for talks should an agenda be agreed upon. More on this: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila Read: NASA asks People's Assembly counties for Raila swearing-in venue Click here for latest political news    