NASA leader Raila Odinga has dispatched invitation cards for his December swearing-in. The invite, which was posted on the coalition's Telegram channel, says that the venue for the event will be communicated after the attendees are vetted. In a brief address to supporters at Manyanja Road, Nairobi last Tuesday, Raila vowed that he will take oath of office on the day Kenya will be celebrating the 54th anniversary of its independence. "I will be sworn-in as President through the People's Assembly and get into State House on December 12," he said before police dispersed his meeting using teargas. "Uhuru Kenyatta is not the President of Kenya. We will not be sworn-in like [Ugandan Opposition leader Kizza] Besigye. We will be sworn-in like it was done with [Emmerson] Mnangagwa in Zimbabwe." Read: I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says  The details of the event for which invites were sent out or the swearing in plan remain scanty but sources within the opposition say the plan is not just mere political talk.  Lawyer Nelson Havi says Article 1 of the Constitution as read together with Sections 87 to 91 of County Governments Act permit establishment of People’s Assembly. “Don’t listen to mediocre legal advice,” he told his followers in a tweet on November 26. The formation of the people's assembly has gained momentum, especially with counties such as Kwale which voted for a Jubilee governor passing the motion. Read : NASA dispatches people's assembly motions, asks for fresh poll in February The same has been approved in nine other counties namely Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kisumu, Makueni, Migori, Siaya, and Vihiga. Mombasa is lined up to pass the motion on Wednesday December 6. The coalition on Friday formed a seven-member committee to guide the opposition on the implementation of the People’s Assembly. Economist David Ndii, former Senator Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina, and former EALA  MP Peter Mathuki are the members. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale, during the unveiling of the team, said the group's recommendations will lead them to a path of self-determination. "Majority of Kenyans did not participate in the October 26 presidential election. It cannot be said that they individually and collectively delegated their sovereignty to Uhuru Kenyatta." "There is no more accept and move on. We want our activities to be within the law," Khalwale said after reading the statement on behalf of the NASA co-principals. Read: NASA unveils team to guide on People’s Assembly execution The force behind Raila's latest push is yet to be established amid indications he might be getting backing from within and outside the country. NASA critics have dismissed the plan as a mirage, a pipe dream, and an illusion created by Raila. The argument is that the Opposition leader's dream of becoming president were shattered by Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration. Uhuru was presented to Kenyans as the duly elected president by Chief Justice David Maraga in a ceremony at Kasarani Stadium on Tuesday. About 12 African heads of states and other dignitaries attended the fete which was later graced by Israel MP Benjamin Netanyahu at the State House banquet. NASA withdraw from the October 26 repeat election which ushered in Uhuru's second term following the Supreme Court's decision to uphold his win as declared by the electoral commission. A number of global leaders have congratulated the Jubilee team on their win and the subsequent closure of the intensified political dwell which affected the country's economic prospects. Both the UK and US have asked NASA and Jubilee leaders to initiate dialogue following the deep ethnic divisions that followed the August 8 and October vote. Read: US congratulates Uhuru, hails Kenya for ending election process Click here for the latest political news