Sixteen candidates in Turkana County who sat this year's Kenya Certificate of Primary Education were on Friday granted scholarships by Equity Bank. The students beat the odds that come with schooling in the bandit prone region to emerge among the country's top performers in the exams.  Among them is Calvin Ewesit Esekon,14, who hails from Lokwamosingi village, Lokori ward, Turkana East. Read:[VIDEO] Parents, guardians ‘fake poverty’ to get Wings to Fly sponsorship Esekon scored 358 marks and has been selected to join Lodwar High school. "It has been my long dream to get a scholarship from Equity because the age of my old mother can not allow her to struggle and pay my fees," he said. Persistent bandit attacks in the region saw Esekon's family lose its cattle forcing them to depend on food relief from NGOs and the national government. "I knew the only way of getting help was to work hard in class and I was forced to stay indoors and revise sometimes when gunshots rent the air," Esekon narrated. He said he will work hard to achieve his dreams of being an architect. Other beneficiaries include Simon Ekai Edukon (Maranda High school), Ibrahim Shukri Abdulahi (Lodwar High School),  Joseph Lokusi Ngasike (Lodwar High School). Others include Anjelina Ikaal Akorot (Chogoria Girls High), Lilian Epur Ekarengan (St. Teresa's Tartar Girls School), Faith Aregae Lokochoro(Lugulu Girls Secondary),Sara Erupe Napeyok (Lugulu Girls Secondary). Job Kibet Nyorsok, Equity Bank Lodwar branch business development manager said the community scholarship will pay fees, pocket money, transport and shopping for students. "We had few slots for the whole of Turkana and Lodwar Equity branch selected eight students comprising four boys and four girls," Nyorsok advised parents to embrace their responsibility of educating their children since its the best investment. In Meru, 32 needy pupils were awarded the 2017 scholarships. Equity bank, Meru branch manager Mwiti Kanga said about 322 had applied for the scholarship but only 32 qualified. In the Nyambene region, eight pupils were awarded the scholarships.   Click here for the latest political news