A bitter exchange between Senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Moses Wetang'ula paralysed business at the Senate on Wednesday. The top House leaders took on each other for at least 10 minutes after Murkomen ignored the Opposition's contributions to extending sittings to December 15. Senators extended the time to ensure Kenya's representation at the East African Legislative Assembly is dispensed before recess until February 13. Murkomen, the Majority leader, moved the motion during the afternoon session but deviated from tradition, requiring the Minority leader or an Opposition member to second it. Read: MPs gobble up Sh650m in pay after working 13 days Vihiga Senator George Khaniri rose on a point of order to challenge Murkomen’s decision of picking his deputy Fatuma Dullo to second the
motion. Khaniri argued the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator was breaking House rules by ignoring NASA, which is led by Minority leader Wetang'ula. The Ford Kenya leader took to the floor following Khaniri’s protest and
accused Murkomen of turning important House matters, requiring a bipartisan approach, into a Jubilee affair. “The issue of bipartisanship is important in every House. Murkomen is treating important House matters casually...this partisan trend should stop,” Wetang’ula said. He told Murkomen that NASA cannot solicit to second motions
that require bipartisan contribution since it is provided for in House Standing
Orders. Murkomen, however, defended his decision by accusing Wetang’ula
of missing the House Business Committee meeting on Tuesday. The meeting resolved to introduce
the motion to alter the House calendar. “Wetang’ula missed the meeting
and did not even bother to look for me ask what we discussed. How can he
second the motion yet he did not attend the meeting?” he said. Wetang’ula hit back at him saying he was engaged in “important”
NASA issues and that his absence could not deny him the chance to second the motion. The Minority Leader, also Bungoma Senator, confirmed to the
House that he notified Lusaka about his inability to attend the meeting.  “I was engaged in important issues of national interest that are going to happen on December 12. You (Murkomen) have a duty to be cautious now that you have moved from being a back-bencher to a leader in this
House." Lusaka was forced to intervene by bringing to an end the
exchange and asking Murkomen to pick a member to second the motion. An agitated
and defiant Murkomen again picked Dullo to second the motion. Garissa Senator Yusuf Hajji condemned Wetang’ula and
Murkomen for crippling House activities by engaging in "nonconstructive exchanges". “We are tired of seeing the two leaders engage in such
kind of talk. The Speaker should not allow them to continue with such
talk in this House,” Hajji said. Senators Amos Wako (Busia) and Margaret Kamar (Uasin Gishu) said the
assembly is important to promoting regional integration and unity. Click here for the latest political stories