A 32-year-old man murdered his two children at Kiganjo estate in Thika town on Tuesday night and then attempted to kill himself. James Kioho stabbed his son and daughter - aged seven and two respectively - in their chests before taking poison. Neighbors who spoke to The star on Wednesday morning said Kioho's inhumane act was triggered by a quarrel with his wife, whom he had left at their rural home in Naromoru in Laikipia county. The cause of the quarrel was unclear. The neighbours said the man, whom they described as sociable, called the woman last evening to inform her that he would kill their children and then himself. “He left on December 23 for Christmas only to return with the kids on December 26. I met him while he headed to the shops. He greeted me and wished me happy holidays," said neighbour Julius Mullei. "The children were in his house playing and laughing. No one would have suspected he would commit such a heinous crime." "Pleas fell on deaf ears" Mullei said that after a while, he heard the children wailing and suspected they were being attacked. This drove neighbours to Kioho's house. “The boy was wailing painfully while calling for his mother while the girl was pleading with her father to stop. We begged him not to hurt the kids and let us help him solve his problems but our pleas fell on deaf ears. He had locked the house from inside." The neighbor said they broke into the house but that it was too late for the children. “They were lying on the floor breeding profusely from their chests." Mullei said the father had placed a lit gas cylinder under the bed and that he intended to set the house on fire while inside. “We hurriedly put out the fire that had already caught the mattress and the bed sheets,” he said. Resident Mary Ndunge said that by the time they got into the house Kioho had already taken what was suspected to be poison as he appeared weak. “He was still breathing, and was lying in his bed that was already on fire, while holding the knife which he used to murder his own children,” she said. "Rising crime, lazy police officers" Mullei said a mob wanted to lynch the man but that he was rescued by officers from Makongeni police station. Thika Police boss Willy Simba said Kioho was taken to Thika level Five Hospital and that once discharged, he will two charges of murder and one of attempted suicide. “We have sent police officers to fetch his wife since we cannot reach her on phone,” Simba said. Journalists were denied access to the man, police saying hospital administrators needed to be there. The incident came a day after a mother of three at Madaraka market in Makongeni was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant. Fruit vendor Lucy Nyambura was stabbed four times at 6 am on Christmas Day, outside her gate while she lighting a jiko. Widower Moses Kang’ethe said a group of young boys in a gang known as Gaza had been attacking people and that they may have been behind the murder. “She has never been on bad terms with anyone here. He didn’t demand or take anything from her. He was just after her life,” he said. Locals blamed Makongeni police saying they had slackened despite a higher crime rate. "They have done nothing to curb the vices. Muggings and heinous attacks by knife-wielding criminals have become the order of the day in Makongeni phase IV despite the fact that the police station is just a few yards away,” said resident Eunice Muthoni. Click here for the latest political stories