ODM and NASA supporters in the Coast and across the country are angry, frustrated and disillusioned.  It all began after the coalition deferred the much-awaited “swearing-in” of Raila Odinga as the “People’s President,”, which was to take place in Mombasa county, the centre piece of opposition politics in the region. Raila’s swearing–in was an event that should immensely have boosted the political fortunes of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi — the two strongmen of opposition politics in the region. The postponement of the swearing-in raised questions over the future of NASA as a viable coalition. Some agree Raila should not have boycotted the October 26 repeat election and are blaming his handlers for misadvising him. Raila, 72, is a man for all seasons. Like the proverbial nine lives of the mysterious cat, Raila has lived many lives and survived. He is the longest-surviving political detainee in Kenya, having first been detained by the Kanu one-party regime following the abortive 1982 coup d’état by the Kenya Air Force. In all, he has been detained four times.  He has changed political parties at least four times and, similarly, unsuccessfully vied for the Presidency four times — 1997, 2007, 2013 and 2017.  The closest Raila has been to win was in the controversial 2007 election, which exposed the ugly face of political ethnicity in Kenya. At least 1,000 people were killed and up to 600,000 p displaced. Seeking a fair electoral process, Raila has gone to the Supreme Court twice — in 2013 and 2017 — to petition the outcome. He won in the 2017 petition, occasioning the annulment of the August 8 presidential election and its repeat on October 26.  NASA’s reasons to boycott the repeat polls are in the public domain. Key among NASA’s 12 electoral reform demands was the restructuring the IEBC, which was rejected. NASA supporters have argued that in some of the presidential elections, notably in 2007, 2013 and 2017, Raila won but was denied. Since Raila’s second attempt in 2007, he has faced some hurdles that have been beyond his control. First are the structures of the successive electoral commissions, including the 2010 Constitution IEBC. This time round, it is the IEBC that failed in the August 8 Presidential election, resulting in the nullification. Only a restructured IEBC would have given any ray of hope for a free, fair and credible election on October 26.  In addition to the restructuring of the IEBC, is the nature of African politics, democracy and electoral systems. Multiparty politics in Africa does not make it any easier to unseat a serving President before completion of the mandatory constitutional terms. Even the recent Ghana experiment, where a sitting President was voted out after one term in office, was an exception rather than the rule. In Kenya, the experience of the controversial election of 2007 during which President Mwai Kibaki sought to serve his ten-year full term, is a case where the incumbent used all instruments available to him to ensure he won. The other factor that hampered NASA to make further inroads in the quest for electoral reforms was the lack of support, even tacit, from the international community, in this case, Western diplomats based in Nairobi. The diplomatic support the opposition received in the 1980s through the 1990s was conspicuously absent this year. As the electoral process was abused, opposition leaders harassed and intimidated, and unarmed demonstrators violently dispersed by the police, resulting in death and injuries; the diplomatic community looked the other way, unperturbed. The abstract joint press releases they occasionally issued never impressed the opposition or Kenyans as a whole in 2017. In short, these diplomats abandoned Kenyans at the hour of need. Times may have changed and the messengers may be different, but the message from the West since the 1980s has been the same. This includes the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, and police and electoral reforms. Beyond the lack of diplomatic recognition on the part of NASA’s activities, is Raila’s own political past, which has rightly or wrongly been linked to socialism. Critics have suggested discreetly that having studied in the then Communist countries of Eastern Europe, Raila harbours some socialist elements. So, if he won he won he would interfere with private property.  This East-West argument can be traced to the ideological differences that pitted Raila’s late father, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, and First President Jomo Kenyatta in the mid-1960s. These differences had to do with Cold War politics and Kenya’s place in the international system. Kenyatta was assumed to be capitalist supported by the West and Oginga, socialist supported by the East. Five decades later, the Oginga-Kenyatta Cold War ideologies have refused to wither away. They have remained under the shadows of their ambitious sons — Raila and Uhuru. In the politics of ‘like father, like son’, the Uhuru Presidency is assumed to be the safe bet: It is pro-capitalist and one that is viewed by supporters and the West as providing continuity and stability.  A Raila presidency, on the other hand, is yet to be appreciated as the gatekeeper of private property and the status quo.  In the many years I worked in diplomatic circles, I saw the matter of Raila’s supposed links to socialism being discussed immensely each time he declared a run for office. I had to say in those discussions that Raila was not the socialist he was presumed to be, and nether would he be a threat to private property. Raila was right to boycott the October 26 repeat election. His participation would only have served to legitimise the outcome of an election he was likely to lose by any means.                   