With less than a week into December, aka DrinkThemba, it feels like the month is approaching the 40th day… That’s the kind of speed that comes with the last month of the year… December moves as fast as a weekend, with every single day feeling like a Saturday… December is one big trap! We have parties happening every weekend and a plan every single day of the week… December is one big party month…  For example, last weekend, B Club hosted their ever amazing pool party with Vanessa Mdee, and that came a day after the Jameson Connect party headlined by Ty Dolla $ign and Nasty C… So if you’re not ready, December can finish you even before you get to Christmas Eve… Another bad thing about December is that pay day comes conveniently early… Unless you are a banker used to getting your salary by latest 20th of every month… You will have money even before the birth of Jesus Christ… Then that will be followed by forced leave… Your ignorant, middle-class self will want to take all that without even blinking and engage turn-up mode like a Subaru Impreza that has been fully serviced and fed full tank fuel… So you start partying daily like everyday is a Saturday, competing with the rest of the pretentious middle class on social media… Some will even go as far as hiring a guzzler to impress slay queens and relatives in shagz who believe all rich people come from/reside in Nairobi… Forgetting that majority of all the middle class, including #TheRaverend, “ni watu wa Madenireeee”.  So before you eat all that little salary that came in by 2nd week of December, we all need to remember the same salary is all you will have until the 65th day of Njaaanworry… So let’s kindly respect and resist the trap that is December… Don’t get caught with hype from other middle class folks who flood our timelines with #IssaParty en #WeOutchea… You just focus on all your problems and have your homecooked meal in peace and sleep… Then come Njaaanworry, when the Slay Kings and Queens hibernate because wamekula mpaka rent, you can unleash the bonus or open the reserve tank… Turn it up! You’ll be the king/queen running the social media streets of Instagram and Facebook… You will turn up like you’re the director of Sportspesa or Betway…That’s free advice from #TheRaverend, no consultation fee, so you can take it or leave it!!! ION, all major clubs in the country have a party. It’s your choice to attend and it’s your choice to make it rain or just be that guy who leaves his wallet at home and go drink your rich friends’ money. Trust me, thez always a bastard who is willing to throw raoz and pay for your company, so just be smart about your partying because every single day thez something or someplace poppin, en because all middle classerians suffer from serious FOMO, you will not miss just make sure it’s not on your small cash or M-Shwari loan!!! FYI, last night Doughty Family had a great party at the Carnivore, with byaaad Gyaaal Cecil from Jamaica, and the roads tonight still leads to the same venue for Reminisce....  #TheRaverend will be in Diani for the premier of Diani Beach Festival, so I leave Nairobi for the real turn up kings and queens. Please keep yourselves and my city safe!!!