Hosts Quins will be seeking to bounce back from their midweek loss to Homeboyz when they host Nakuru RFC in a tricky Kenya Cup clash at the RFUEA grounds today. The hosts will be seeking to tighten their defence which soaked in five tries in the 41-39 defeat to the free flowing Deejays. Coach Joel Nganga said they must avoid lapses of concentration against a young and enterprising Wanyore outfit. “Nakuru play with structure. They traditionally have very strong set-piece execution unlike Homeboyz, who can score a try from anywhere. We are looking to bounce back and get out first win of the season in what will be a competitive match,” said Nganga. Nganga has made four changes from the two point defeat to the Deejays. Lock Lewis Olaka, backrowers Edward Shitanda, David Ahawo and fullback Eric Shikuku drop to the bench as Malcolm Onsando, Bernard Nyambok, Ronald Musajja and Brian Beckham are handed starting berths. Kenya Simbas scrum-half Lyle Asiligwa makes a return to the bench with Kevin Njugi set to start once again as fly-half Isaac Adimo retains his position. Making the Quins bench are Frank Kalwale, Dennis Muriithi, Paul Kioko and Simeon Malaba. Nakuru started their campaign with a 45-15 win over debutants Kisii. Head coach Mitch Ocholla expects a tough test from their hosts. Ocholla has recalled experienced prop Isiah Nyariki for the encounter. Nyariki had an injury-plagued season last year but was a key player as the Rift outfit lifted the Kenya Cup in 2013 and 2014. Edwin Makori starts at blindside flank replacing Justin Bunde while Moses Okendo will partner Steve Wamae in the second row. He replaces Philip Kwame who is in Dubai with Samurai International. Henry Ayah retains the no.10 jersey after a superb performance against Kisii. In the days other fixture, Impala entertain Mwamba while champions KCB travel to Nyanza to face Kisii at the Gusii Stadium. Homeboyz host Nondies at the Jamhuri Park show ground, Kabras entertain Strathmore Leos while Blad Blad play away against Mombasa RFC