Embu politicians want President Uhuru Kenyatta to reserve Cabinet and PS slots for the county. They have, however, differed on who is to be given a CS post should Uhuru decide to appoint one. Some want Uhuru to retain Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki, while another group says any person can do as long as he or she merits and is from the county. They say the county overwhelmingly voted for the President on August 8 and October 26 and it is time for Uhuru to show his appreciation. Uhuru got 215,518 votes from the county in the October 26 presidential rerun. Residents have stood with Uhuru since he rose to the presidency in 2013, they say. Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairwoman Mary Kavinda wants Sicily retained. She says the CS has delivered on her mandate. Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua, former Transport PS Cyrus Njiru and Wambora’s political adviser Albert Kigoro are not categorical. They say merit must guide Uhuru’s decision. “Residents humbly asked the President to give a person from the county a Cabinet post in return for the great support they have accorded him,” Njagagua said. Njiru said, “Let the President consider merit in appointing his Cabinet and ensure that a person from Embu plays a role in doing so.” County assembly majority leader Michael Njeru, Governor Martin Wambora’s former political adviser Joshua Kanake and county assembly chief whip Margaret Kariuki want Uhuru to appoint a person who resides in Embu — not one who resides somewhere else. “Let’s have actual residents getting appointments so we feel we belong in this government. Everybody knows what I mean,” Kanake said in apparent reference to Sicily. Sicily is from  Embu’s Manyatta subcounty, but married in Nyandarua. During campaigns, she camped in Embu to marshall support for Jubilee. Njeru said, “For a long time, we’ve not been having a CS from Embu. Those who have been appointed are not residents. Though they are people from our motherland, they don’t have day-to-day contact with residents.” Margaret said, “We can get a lady.One who resides in Embu county who we can easily go to and see at their homes when there are issues — not somebody we don’t know where to find.”