The issue is not that the 2017 results were released early. They could be released early or delayed. The issue is that there are too many students who were eliminated by this exam. We have 610,501 candidates who did this exam and only 70,000, or 11 per cent, which is a small number, are joining university. There are questions many people, including myself, who served in the Education sector, are asking. What happened? Why such a large number of students did badly and why there was such poor performance across the board. We are talking about over 500,000 students getting C-plain and below. We are talking about 350,000 students getting D+ and below. Three hundred and fifty thousand is more than a half of 610, 501. So, we are saying more than half of the candidates failed the exam. In fact, the number that is going to university is fewer than the space available in universities across the country. Was it that the exam was too hard? Is it that the teaching or quality of education in our secondary schools is too low? These are questions people want answers to. It’s a very serious issue because throwing out these large numbers of students discourages them and may become radicalized. If you compare with the previous years, it is not justifiable that the reason for mass failures is because all schools were cheating. Indeed, we can have a reduction in grades but not so vast a reduction. I don't believe that out of 610,501 students you only get 142 As. Education CS Fred Matiang’i should give a ministerial statement to Parliament explaining to the country why we have such a small number joining universities and the mechanism of accommodating half-a-million students in middle and technical colleges. What are we going to do with all these youth being sent back to the villages? We cannot have three-quarters going to struggle looking for places in colleges that do not even exist. Remember, many Diploma-level colleges were converted into universities. There are very hard questions that nobody can answer, except the Education ministry. This is among reasons teachers and parents’ unions are up in arms, and all stakeholders are very concerned. The Education CS and his team did not explain on Wednesday when releasing the KCSE results. They really need to explain to the nation what happened. The writer is a former Education PS