The fight for the
leadership of South Africa's ruling ANC drew to a close on
Monday, with markets on edge for a result that will set the
direction for the scandal-plagued party and the country. As delegates cast the last few ballots, senior members built
up battle lines on social media, backing either Deputy
President Cyril Ramaphosa or Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma - a former
cabinet minister and the ex-wife of President Jacob Zuma. The vote is perhaps the most pivotal moment for deeply
divided African National Congress since it launched
black-majority rule under Nelson Mandela's leadership 23 years
ago. Whoever emerges at the helm of the ANC, a 105-year-old
liberation movement that dominates Africa's most industrialised
economy, is likely to become the country's next president after
elections in 2019. "It is going to be very close," a senior ANC source said.
"Both camps have spreadsheets where they have calculated the
number of delegates on their side. Both sides have different
assumptions and guesswork." A total of 4,776 delegates began casting their ballots in
the early hours after the vote, planned for Sunday, was delayed. Ramaphosa, a former trade union leader who became a
businessman and is now one of the richest people in South
Africa, has vowed to fight corruption and revitalise the
economy, a message hailed by foreign investors. Dlamini-Zuma - the current president's preferred candidate -
has pledged to tackle the racial inequality that has persisted
since the end of white-minority rule. They were the only candidates nominated for the ANC
leadership at a conference in Johannesburg on Sunday night. "Delegates are very exhausted," an ANC source who is a
voting delegate told Reuters. "I don't know how they will run
today's sessions." VOLATILITY The party's Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu announced on Twitter
that he voted for Ramaphosa, while police minister Fikile
Mbalula tweeted that he had cast his vote for Dlamini-Zuma. In a boost to Ramaphosa, courts ruled that officials from
some provinces seen as supporting Dlamini-Zuma had been elected
illegally and were barred from the conference. The rand currency gained after that news on Friday,
extending its gains to more than 2 percent on Sunday, but was
volatile early on Monday morning.. "Volatility will be high in the morning and explosive once
the results are released. Most of the market reaction will be
about who wins the presidency," Rand Merchant Bank analyst John
Cairns said. ANC spokeswoman Khusela Sangoni said voting was expected to
be completed by midday and results announced later on Monday. "That announcement that we are all waiting for will happen
am sure in the early part of the afternoon," she said. On Saturday, Zuma announced plans to raise subsidies for
tertiary colleges and universities, a move analysts said was
timed to appeal to the party's more populist members allied to
Dlamini-Zuma, the first woman nominated as an ANC presidential
candidate. Zuma has faced allegations of corruption since he became
head of state in 2009 but has denied any wrongdoing. Ramaphosa drew the majority of nominations from party
branches scattered across the country. But the complexity of the
leadership race makes it uncertain he will win the final count. "The race is extremely close," said Susan Booysen, a
political analyst at the University of Witwatersrand's School of
Governance in Johannesburg. "Before today we said Dlamini-Zuma could emerge as a winner.
Even if there is a strong lead in terms of branch nominations by
the Ramaphosa camp, it's not clear-cut." Click here for latest political news