Coast MPs and senators are up in arms against the
NASA leadership for excluding them from House leadership positions.  They are also protesting of exclusion in NASA
Parliamentary Group decision-making.  This exclusion raises serious issues over the
alliance’s commitment to the Coast political agenda, which is about inclusion
and addressing marginalisation. Since the 2013 election, which Jubilee won, the
language of the opposition in the Coast has been one of unfettered commitment
to address historical injustices and gender balance, if  they formed government.  This message has been so powerful and
compelling that Coast has unwaveringly been voting for the opposition, in
particular ODM.
  In 2013 
all the six governors were from the opposition. The region also sent
over 30 MPs to Parliament, not to be mention the majorities in the county assemblies.
  This opposition tide was repeated in the August 8
election.  Despite minor reverses that
saw the Coast lose two governors to Jubilee Party, NASA, and especially ODM,
still held sway in this election.
  In the marginalisation discourse, NASA leaders
have lambasted Jubilee for perpetuating historical injustices in the
Coast.  However, this week’s uprising proves
otherwise; if the Jubilee government is guilty of perpetuating  the marginalisation of coastal communities,
the NASA leaders are also culpable. The exclusion of coastal leaders and communities
on the national arena is not exactly new. 
What is new is  that Coast MPs
have started to question it.  In some
ways, the legislators are interrogating the sincerity of NASA leaders — Raila
Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula — with regard to
their commitment to the Coast agenda.
  It is important to note that by excluding them in
the House positions, NASA is deliberately denying them their rightful positions
in  national politics and
leadership.  Political parties by
formation act as ladders to ascend to national positions, which NASA is denying
Coast politicians.  It is a violation of
minority rights.
  The NASA action has not only revealed a lack of
internal party democracy, but also the manifestations of ethnicity, clanism and
nepotism that is the bedrock of the foundations of Kenya’s political
parties.  By its own actions, NASA is as
culpable as JP. In fact, the ongoing NASA Parliamentary
leadership controversy exposes  the
alliance’s hypocrisy.   For example,
Kilifi, the strongest opposition of the Coast’s six counties, JP has nominated
Christine Zawadi from Ganze subcounty, one of the poorest counties in this
region, as senator.  The county is yet to
get any nomInation from ODM.
  In the 2013 election, TNA nominated, among
others, two women senators born in Kilifi — Mvita  Kisasa, representing Kilifi county and Emma
Mbura representing Mombasa.
  ODM, on the other hand, has had only Kwale’s
Agnes Zani in the Senate since 2013.
  ODM’s apathy 
to the coastal communities began even earlier, when in 2007, the party
teamed up with PNU to form the Grand Coalition government.  The region that had overwhelmingly voted for
Raila found itself excluded from positions of power set side on a 50-50 sharing
basis for both ODM and PNU.
  Even the appointment of James Orengo as the minister
of Lands had no impact on land issues in the Coast.
  I have argued before in this column that in the
context of Coast politics, NASA is an illusion. 
It is an alliance built on sand, which can crumble any time.  It is NASA that hugely disappointed its
candidates in the August 8 election, precipitating the recent short-lived exodus
to Jubilee. It is in this context that the baby cry by the
Coast MPs must be viewed.  Their  complacence in the past is what, in part, has
driven this region to where others lead and the Coast follows.
  Nevertheless, there are some lessons from the exclusion
protest.The first is that solutions to
the Coast historical injustices and the marginalisation of native communities
do not lie in the secession of the region as suggested by some elected leaders.
  In my view, part of the solution lies in the search
for political unity of purpose, exactly as demonstrated by our MPs over
the  NASA nomination imbroglio in
Parliament.This 
emerging political unity of purpose should be augmented by forming a
homegrown party, or the supporting and strengthening of an existing local
one. 
  Parties in Kenya are not founded on any ideology,
rather they are formed first and foremost to serve the immediate ethnic-regional
interests.  Coast leaders and the people
can only ignore this reality at their own peril. The second lesson is that Coast politicians,
whether from the JP, NASA or any other political divide, must redefine their
destinies, especially with regards to the 2022 national  succession politics.  I have in mind leading politicians such as Mombasa  Governor Hassan Joho, his Kilifi counterpart  Amason Kingi, Najib Balala, Suleiman Shahbal,
Kwale’s Governor Salim Mvurya, and Gideon Munga’ro, among others. These politicians
are defendants of ODM and JP, as their political engines. NASA has proven these
parties have their owners.  This  is especially instructive to both Joho and
Kingi. In their view, ODM would do for the Coast what local parties could
do.  Perhaps they can now tell us why
ODM/NASA MPs are crying foul on a political alliance  that is the opium of coastal communities.
  Overall, the impact in Coast politics of the NASA
leadership protests in the National Assembly is that without a  viable regional political party and a
unifying leader, the Coast shall remain marginalized.  And in part, it is even marginalizing itself.
  It is this
lack of  political unity of purpose that
has subordinated this region, reducing our MPs to cry babies in the arena of
national politics. Politicians also cry.
          