Governor Jackson Mandago on Friday warned Uasin Gishu officials that they will be sacked if they don't perform to the expectations of the electorate. The county boss said he wishes to leave a legacy adding that CECs will play a pivotal role in ensuring the promises made to the voters are fulfilled. Mandago spoke during the swearing in of the ten new county executive committee members whose names were approved by the county assembly. Read: Mandago sacks eight, retains two Uasin Gishu executives The county boss told the new county ministers that they have been given rare opportunity and have no choice or alternative but to be effective in their work. He said the executives would be held responsible for any failures in their dockets adding that those who don't deliver will be free to resign from the posts. "This time, everyone has to do their work and if the county assembly will recall any of you because of non performance, I will approve that," Mandago said. Mandago said the executives will be assessed every three s that they must engage the residents on a daily basis instead of sitting in county offices. "If I go out there and discover that people do not know you as a county executive, that will be an automatic ticket to sack you." "This is because it will show your are not in touch with residents of the county," Mandago said. Uasin Gishu Senator Prof Margaret Kamar and Turbo MP Janet Rotich were present at the event. Mandago regretted that his previous executives wasted time in offices and later campaigned against him during the elections. "Some of them could not even give a lift to any resident of the county in the official cars. It was easier for residents to access me but not the executives." He said it was regretful that too much politics had delayed county operations. "We must now move forward as a county and avoid waste of time on political gossip," Mandago said. Also read: Mandago warns health staff diverting drugs, wasting resources Click here for the latest political news  