Former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo yesterday suffered a setback after the High Court in Siaya dismissed his application to have the election votes recounted and scrutinised. He is challenging the election of MP Elisha Odhiambo. On October 6, Midiwo requested the court to permit scrutiny of ballot boxes and papers, forms 35A, 35B, and sought orders for a recount and retallying. But Justice Esther Maina yesterday said the application sought to amend the petition to bring in new evidence. She warned the petitioner that she would not permit a “fishing expedition” in the court. She said Midiwo sought to  constitute his own case. Maina described the application as a classic example of a petitioner trying to extract evidence from his prayers. “By again applying that we conduct a scrutiny of the dropped evidence is not only mischievous and misconceived, it’s also an abuse of the court process,” she said. The petitioner should have shown that the validity of the votes cast was in dispute, the judge said. Midiwo did not demonstrate that all polling stations were marred by illegalities and irregularities to warrant the request, she said. Maina said the court was guided by the rule of law and the principles of merit in giving its verdict. Midiwo was in court during the ruling.  He did not address the press. Maina concurred with Midiwo’s concerns, however, that electronic transmission of the results from polling stations was not done according to the election rules. She said presiding officers resorted to physically ferrying results from polling stations to the constituency tallying centres. They risked exposing the outcome to manipulation, she added. “Transmission of results electronically failed on a massive scale, forcing the POs to literally deliver the results, possibly exposing the process to rigging,” Maina said. She ordered that all parties file submissions orally and in writing. Midiwo’s lawyers have until December 18, while Odhiambo’s are to submit by December 28. Last month, Odhiambo disowned a video purportedly showing him bribing voters ahead of August 8. The recording was played in court as part of the evidence in the petition filed by Midiwo. Midiwo argued the politician bribed voters at the home of Royal Media Services presenter Felix Oduor (Jalang’o). He said each elector was given Sh100 to vote for Odhiambo. Paul Achar, a witness appearing for Midiwo, said he shot the video clip at the presenter’s home. The witness had earlier failed to demonstrate before the court how he managed to shoot the video using his phone’s WhatsApp. But Odhiambo dismissed the video clip and said it was malicious. He said he visited the radio presenter’s home as a friend. Odhiambo said he gave a Christmas gift to people who attended a party at Oduor’s home. “I can confirm to this court that I gave each attendant Sh100 and sodas as Christmas presents. This was not to induce them to vote for me,” he said. He said those who attended the party were not voters in Gem constituency; hence, the cash could in no way amount to bribery. Odhiambo made the comments when he was cross-examined by Midiwo’s lawyer Dismas Wakla. Meanwhile, Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga is to appear before the same court on Monday as a witness in a petition filed by former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo. Gumbo is challenging Rasanga’s victory. Rasanga was scheduled to appear before judge Maina last week, but requested a delay to allow him to defend his thesis at a university.