The NCIC has threatened to move to court to have a controversial motion passed by Kiambu MCAs requiring 70 per cent of the dominant ethnic community employed by companies operating in the region struck out. NCIC chairman Francis Kaparo yesterday said the motion passed by the Kiambu assembly is unconstitutional. He said the NCIC will issue an advisory to the Kiambu and all other county governments against passing such legislation. “I am amazed at how the county assembly can purport to direct how to employ its citizens. It is foolish. It is retrogressive and our leaders must think before they act. We must not balkanize this country along tribal lines. It will finish us,” he said. Related content : It’s the law, say MCAs as they compel firms to hire 70% locals Kaparo said the 70-30 rule specified in Section 65 of the County Governments Act 2012 applies only to the staff employed by the county Public Service Board. Last Friday, Kiambu MCAs passed a motion compelling public and private institutions operating in the region to get 70 per cent of its workforce from the dominant ethnic community. They said it would help create employment for the locals. Majority leader Antony Ikonya, who moved the motion, argued it was in line with Section 65 ( 1 ) (e) of the County Governments Act. But Kaparo said that section of the law does not bind national institutions, whether public or private, within the county.  “The effect of Section 65 ( 1 ) (e) is to ensure that the minority and marginalised communities within the county are guaranteed representation within the county public service as opposed to reserving positions for the dominant ethnic community within the county,” he said. Also read : Kingi wants 70% of jobs for Kilifi locals Kaparo said the motion will set a bad precedent and jeopardise efforts towards achieving a cohesive and integrated society. He urged the public to ignore the motion. Kaparo urged county assemblies to not only enact laws that address challenges in their jurisdictions, but bear in mind that such laws promote harmonious relations. “It is imperative the county political leadership leads by example and commits itself to the elimination of ethnic discrimination,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 