Two Ebola survivors in Sierra
Leone filed a lawsuit in a regional court on Friday, accusing
the government of mismanaging funds during an epidemic that
killed more than 3,000 people in the West African nation. More than 11,300 people died in total during the worst
outbreak of the highly contagious disease, which mainly affected
Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone from 2013 to 2016. Foreign governments and health organisations poured millions
of dollars into the three nations to halt the epidemic's spread,
but local authorities in Sierra Leone were dogged by allegations
of corruption and misuse of the funds. Sierra Leone's government has pledged to investigate any
accusations but so far there have been no prosecutions related
to misspent government Ebola resources. "Sierra Leoneans have repeatedly demanded accountability and
justice for the mismanagement of Ebola response funds, but their
demands have fallen on deaf ears," said Ibrahim Tommy of the
Centre for Accountability and Rule of Law, which is assisting
the plaintiffs. The two Ebola survivors, who contracted the virus while
serving as health workers, blame inadequate resources provided
by the government for their infection and the subsequent deaths
of many of their colleagues. Around 250 health workers died in Sierra Leone over the
course of the epidemic. The suit, filed with the Nigeria-based court of regional
bloc ECOWAS, alleges the government's actions during the health
crisis violated its citizens' "right to life and right to
health". The plaintiffs are seeking both financial and non-financial
compensation, Tommy said. Sierra Leone's Attorney General Joseph Kamara told Reuters
that the government had not yet received notification of the
complaint, adding that until it did he was unable to comment on
the case. An internal government audit in 2015 found that a third of
resources earmarked to fight the epidemic during a six-month
period a year earlier could not be properly accounted for. It
added that proper use of the funds could have saved more lives. "We want to know what happened with the money," said Yusuf
Kabbah, the head of Sierra Leone's Ebola survivors association.
"We are very much interested to give our own support, so that
all those that were actors in the fight will be held
responsible."