Many Mombasa youths risk dying from lung cancer and respiratory diseases caused by smoking shisha. Mombasa is rated third in the country in terms of tobacco smoking.  Of Kenya’s 2.2 million tobacco smokers, Mombasa has 600,000. Central and Eastern regions lead in smoking. Nairobi is fourth. But health experts and officers now warn the smokers are turning to shisha in the face of the intense war on tobacco use. They say smoking one puff of shisha is equivalent to smoking at least 10 cigarettes at one go and one bottle of shisha is like taking more than 100 cigarettes. Mombasa chief health officer Khadija Shikelly said many smoking youths have turned to shisha, yet it is more dangerous than cigarettes. “It also greatly endangers the lives of non-smokers [passive smokers] who come into contact with the smoke,” she said during the launch of an anti-smoking campaign last Friday. The Coast region is on the verge of losing thousands of youths to shisha, Shikelly said. “Excessive smoking causes lung cancer, pneumonia and other chronic lung infections. It’s like killing yourself slowly,” Shikelly said. Surveys also show that shisha smoking by the youth is increasing. Yesterday, Dr Daniel Rambei of the Coast General Hospital, Mombasa, said about 60 per cent of youths in the region have smoked shisha at least once. Only 10 per cent have smoked cigarettes, he said.  At the Coast, 53 per cent of the youth and 30 per cent of the people above 30 years are regular shisha smokers, he said. “Mombasa county alone has about 63 per cent of students who start smoking shisha at ages of 16–18 years — boys being dominant,” Rambei said. Dr Sumba Kivungu, a member of the Tobacco Control Board of Kenya, said the campaign against tobacco and shisha needs to be intensified. “Sisha is not an alternative to cigarette. It is dangerous,” he said. Kivungu said it will take a countrywide campaign to ensure everyone is enlightened. In major towns, shisha has become an integral part of partying — even at alcohol-free events.  Smokers also buy shisha bongs and make it at home. A bong goes for Sh4,000-15,000 and includes hiring a shisha maker, buying the bong spare parts, shisha pens, pipes, coal and flavours. Worse still, all these can be delivered to anyone’s doorstep. All this is happening against the backdrop of tough laws and an intense war on tobacco use. Last year, for instance, Nacada and the health ministry banned 19 shisha flavours found to contain bhang, heroin and cocaine.