Harambee Stars face a must win situation this afternoon against Tanzania if they are to proceed to the knockout stages of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup without any hustles. With Zanzibar already assured of a semi-final slot, the home boys take on regional rivals Tanzania, who have nothing to lose in the final Group ‘A’ preliminary match, with Libya still having an opportunity to qualify. Kenya still have a chance to finish at the top of Group ‘A’ with eight points if Zanzibar fail to beat Libya in their final match. Kenya won their first match 2-0 against Rwanda and a goal drought followed in their subsequent matches against Libya and Zanzibar, where Stars battled both teams to a goalless draws. Today, Paul Put will aim at nothing short of a win which will guarantee his boys a place in the semis and spare the country an early exit from the prestigious event. Put, who is yet to concede a goal since his appointment, will also be out to safeguard his unbeaten run and gift Kisumu fans the opportunity to watch and cheer Harambee Stars at Moi Stadium. A frustrated Put lamented the many chances Stars failed to bury in the contest against Zanzibar and encouraged the striking front to be clinical in their match against Tanzania. Stars missed the services of Kariobangi Sharks’ marksman Masoud Juma who was injured and in his absence Nakumatt FC forward Kepha Aswani filled his place. Put admitted that Stars had a good build up in the match but the final touches in front of goal were poor. “The build-up from back was good but the final touch line was always not what we wanted. Zanzibar were defensive throughout and we could not penetrate their defence. Up next is Tanzania and this is a must win tie, where we hope to break the deadlock and seal a place in the semis. The quality in the squad is good so is that of the opponents,” he said. Tanzania lost 2-1 to Rwanda to blow away their hopes of qualifying and remain win-less in the tournament. Today, they renew their rivalry with Kenya, hoping to land their fist win of the tournament. The match will be preceded by the clash between Libya and Zanzibar. A win for Libya over Zanzibar will see them hit their sixth point, one off Zanzibar.