NASA leader Raila Odinga has asked supporters to remain steadfast as the coalition seeks electoral justice. He said they remain optimistic that their journey to Canaan is attainable. "Tell your people that there is light at the end of the tunnel and we will pass through," he told MCAs at the Kisumu County Assembly on Monday. "They have tried so many ways to stop us - including threats, intimidation, arrests and even killing our people - but they don't know we have several ways of skinning a cat," Raila added. Read: Supreme Court verdict: Keep hope alive, Canaan is real - Raila Raila lashed out at President Uhuru Kenyatta for lauding police for doing a commendable job in the election period. He reiterated that they will not recognise Uhuru as duly elected at the repeat poll was not constitutional. "I am happy that you adhered to my calls not to participate in the elections where we saw Uhuru competing against Kenyatta and low voter turnout." Raila thanked the assembly for being the first to pass the People's Assembly motion. NASA's strategist David Ndii was arrested in Kwale over his role in the formation of the People's Assembly. It was alleged that Ndii had been meeting several groups of people at the luxurious Leopard Beach resort in Diani over secession. The economist has also publicly announced the swearing-in of Raila on December 12. The arrest attracted criticism from many who castigated the Jubilee administration for dictatorship in attempts to stifle the Opposition. Police said Ndii was apprehended over incitement but did not give details. In an earlier address in the county, Raila said more people in the Opposition will be arrested but that they will not bow to intimidation. "They searched a hotel room where Ndii had been booked and took some materials. Many more are going to be arrested but we shall not be intimidated into submission," he said. The ODM leader said the Jubilee Party administration has resolved to militarising police, who are "brutally murdering and maiming innocent Kenyans whose only mistake is to raise their voice on impunity". Read: More will be arrested, Raila says, demands David Ndii's release Also read: Kenya sliding into dictatorship, rights groups say after David Ndii arrest Click here for the latest political stories  