Electronic and mobile commerce are likely to take control as major retail market drivers of 2018. Going by a recent P&G study, the growth of e-commerce will be driven by a fast-growing internet penetration. The penetration currently stands at 100.2 per cent as reported by the Communication Authority in its 2016/2017 fourth quarter statistics report. There are currently 29.4 million internet users, a 15.3 per cent increase, as reported within the same period last year. Mobile payments, which recorded at least 480.58 million transactions of Sh1.2 trillion in 2016/2017 financial year, has also been highlighted as a key determiner of the 2018 trends in the retail sector. In addition, with only two companies dominating the two sectors at the beginning of 2017, the year is closing with four companies all eyeing to control Kenya’s online market place in 2018. The four include Jumia, Kilimall, OLX, and Safaricom-owned Masoko unveiled in mid-November. A number of companies such as Deacons have also adopted e-commerce platforms to sell their products across the four major platforms. Important to note is the exit of Ringier Group owned e-commerce platform Rupu in January this year over distribution challenges, with the company shifting its focus to digital publishing. While such developments are pleasing, an analytical look at the ‘new retail’ shows that Kenya supermarkets lack a seamless blend of online and offline shopping experiences. ‘New retail’, as coined by Alibaba founder-Jack Ma, is the integration of online, offline, logistics and data across a single value chain. During his visit in July, Ma emphasised that Kenya’s retail sector must innovate fast to reap from digital evolution in order to catch up with the fast-advancing trends of ‘new retail’. However, a quick survey of the four major supermarkets shows that they have done little to integrate technology to spur growth or diversify. Looking at Nakumatt, Tuskys, Naivas and Uchumi for instance, the Star found out only Tuskys, Uchumi and Naivas have online shopping portals. However portals for Uchumi and Naivas are inactive with that of Tuskys limited on the products available. Nakumatt has only a Nakumatt Global Card with an option for a supplier portal on its Nakumatt stores tab. It has no option of online shopping. The four do not have mobile shopping applications, despite Kenya being Africa’s Silicon Savannah, with hundreds of programmers skilled in making almost every solution, from USSD and SMS services to Android and iPhone applications. In their defence, Naivas through its chief commercial officer Willy Kimani, said their portal was marred with fraud and could not generate revenue hence the need to close it down for upgrading. Plans to roll it out in October this year, together with a mobile application, were postponed but they intend to roll it out in 2018. On the other hand, Uchumi and Nakumatt blamed the lack of digital means for trading to their financial woes. Uchumi said they are waiting for an investor to pump in funds before embarking on digitization of its services. Nakumatt’s fate is still unknown. Ironically, the little known Eastmatt has a shopping portal. High-end retailer Chandarana also boast of an end to end portal. However, it’s only Chandarana’s that is functioning while for Eastmatt, one can only view the products but make no purchase. Looking at the new international players in the market – Carrefour, Choppies, Souk Bazaar, and Game, the situation is the same. They have websites without shopping portals and no trade can take place using the websites. Fast forward to 2018, industry experts are hoping to cash in on tech-savvy customers as they seek to cut operating costs. Speaking to the Star in a recent interview, Retail Trade Association of Kenya chairperson Muchiri Wahome said they will borrow lessons from leading online retailers. On the other hand, leading online retailers intend to test use of drones for delivery of goods during the first quarter of 2018 while Masoko seeks to deepen the use and penetration of its product through partnerships with vendors that benefit customers.      