If media reports are to be believed, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi are bitter persons. They are bitter because they do not understand why some people are opposed to the breakaway of the Coast from the rest of Kenya. Last week, at a special ODM regional assemblies’ meeting in Kilifi, Joho and Kingi could not hide their ire. Kingi was reported saying, “Only a fool can ignore the secession talk at the Coast.” Joho was even more emphatic, “We will not stop thinking [about secession] until our people get their rights.” As the two ODM governors pushed the secession issue to at least 300 delegates from five of the six coastal counties – Tana River was not represented – there was a catch: Raila Odinga, the chief guest, reportedly walked out of the conference room as Kingi dwelt on the narrative about the quest for Coast secession. Raila’s walkout can only be construed to mean he was not supportive of the secession idea. When he was Prime Minister, Raila flatly refused to engage in any dialogue with the secessionist leaders of the Mombasa Republican Council. Raila would not want to be the President of several scattered breakaway units called counties. Like his predecessors – Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and now Uhuru Kenyatta – Raila would want to lead one Kenya. Raila’s public resistance discourses since the bungled August 8 presidential election have never endorsed secession politics. Instead, he has called for a serious dialogue to resolve the longstanding issues of historical injustices and marginalisation, which have fuelled the clamour for secession, in particular at the Coast. The NASA leadership has been preoccupied with ensuring that future elections are never stolen. As Raila stated during the burial of Kitui West MP and former Minority leader Francis Nyenze, NASA leaders were ready to die if this would ensure fair and transparent electoral processes in future. In this context, the clamour for secession can only be characterised as misplaced and diversionary from the key issue of the moment. Besides, secession has never been on the platforms, manifestos or electoral campaigns of ODM and NASA. Individually and collectively, these affiliate parties have fought for a decentralised system of governance – devolution. The ideology of devolution is what sets apart Jubilee Party from the ODM/NASA fraternity. The opposition’s key agenda is the strengthening of devolution through enhanced funding to the counties, whereas JP would have none of this. The issue of secession, therefore, contradicts the basic philosophical ethos of ODM and NASA. This means the secessionists at the Coast are doing this on their own. Unless the ODM and NASA leaderships declare publicly that they support secession, the clamour for the breakaway of the Coast can only mean it is meant to serve particular individual and group interests. In fact, secession is being used to harass or to embarrass JP and its leaders. Joho and Kingi have declared one of them will run for president in 2022. But with the secession talk, it is unclear whether their bid was meant for Kenya or the proposed breakaway Coast Republic. We need to interrogate the basic objectives behind the push for secession, especially as ODM and NASA seem indifferent to the idea, as exemplified by Raila’s walkout, and its membership’s exclusive nature.  As it is now, the secession talk is the preserve of the two ODM leaders and their coattails. Indeed, if Joho and Kingi are on their own, they should form a political party on which to push the secessionist agenda. Besides, some of the secessionists have been in legislative positions before and they never used that platform and opportunity to address historical injustices and marginalisation of coastal communities. Yet in democracies, lawmaking and articulation of community interests are the basic functions of MPs. One historical injustices issue is land. The squatter issue at the Coast dates back to pre-Independence. Coastal land was previously controlled by the Persians, Arab Sultans and the British.  Through discriminative colonial land laws, native communities, in particular the Mijikenda, were forcibly removed from the lush coastal lands and beaches and consigned to the Nyika hinterland. The situation has never been reversed. The 10-mile coastal strip covering more than 80,000 hectares ( 197,684 acres) in Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Malindi, Tana River and Lamu counties is a classic case of a people who have suffered at the hands of uncaring post-Independence governments and leaders. It is an extreme situation of marginalisation and deprivation. Yet in the clamour to correct these injustices, Coast leaders have focused more on blaming upcountry folks than their own. It is this politics of “Us versus Them” that witty politicians have used to continually win elections. This time round these same politicians are using the same politics to call for secession, which they know appeals hugely to the average voter. I believe good leadership would save the Coast from the abyss of exclusion, if not secession. By good leadership, I mean a leadership that is inclusive of all cadres of coastal communities to ensure the people have access to good education, affordable healthcare, good habitat, improved agriculture and infrastructure and sanitation, and fair and equal employment opportunities in the counties. The counties should provide enabling environments for business, commerce, investment opportunities, and youth and women’s empowerment. With prudence and good leadership, devolution should be our starting point. Contrary to what we are told, that secession can be achieved through peaceful, constitutional and legal means, the reality is it has never been peaceful. It takes blood, sweat and tears to win or lose it. Further, secession is not necessarily the path to better lives or the pursuit of happiness. In many instances, it has triggered intractable inter-and-intra ethnic and class conflicts in countries such as Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union. Is the Coast ready and willing to face these inevitable eventualities when push comes to shove? I doubt it. A region that cannot even feed itself or possess the requisite human and material resources to sustain a resistance, cannot contemplate breaking away from the rest of Kenya. Similarly, any contemplated secession that does not enjoy external support is bound to fail. The international community, through their embassies in Nairobi, have made their position known – they want one indivisible Kenya. As was suggested at the ODM meeting in Kilifi, some of us may be “foolish” because we do not support the secession talk.  However, I would rather be “foolish” than consciously acquiesce in a partisan idea, whose overall impact is the realisation and fulfilment of individual and group interests.