The Luhya community is at a political crossroads and it could take longer to chart the way forward after the opposition, which it supported, lost the August 8 polls, an analyst has said. The community overwhelmingly voted for NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Its leaders in Ford Kenya and Amani are, however, grumbling over being elbowed out of parliamentary leadership by ODM. Political analyst Martin Andati yesterday said it is too early for the community to choose a political direction because many issues raised in the last polls have not been addressed. “It may take until March or April next year for the community to begin asking itself whether to remain solidly in the opposition or work with the government because Raila is still pushing for justice over electoral fraud,” he said. ANC and Ford Kenya leaders have accused ODM of bullying them in the coalition by grabbing all assembly leadership slots. Senate speaker with jubilee The community has Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka and National Assembly chief whip Ben Washiali from the Jubilee side. Analysts say ODM was keen to grab every opportunity in Parliament because its key leaders are aware Raila, who has said he will hang up his boots in 2022, is likely to pass the baton to another person outside Nyanza. Raila said he is ready to die after his swearing-in if that will ensure electoral justice for Kenyans. His ‘swearing-in’ was postponed. Raila last Saturday insisted he will be sworn in as the People’s President. Lugari ODM sub-branch chairman Nabii Nabwera said the community has a better chance of realising its goals through NASA rather than Jubilee. Unity most important “What is important is to maintain the unity achieved so far within the community and bring on board those still out of the NASA orbit and prepare for the 2022 race,” he said. Nabwera said this is only achievable when some senior Luhya political leaders known for dealmaking at the expense of the community change and serve the people. The presence of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula in NASA consolidated the Luhya community opposition ahead of the August 8 polls. “Do not worry about me and Mudavadi. We know what we’re doing and shall ensure we work for the cause of the community. What is important is unity of purpose,” Wetang’ula said in Likuyani. He said a week ago he and Mudavadi will meet all NASA MCAs from Western to solidify unity after the planned swearing-in of the NASA chief was abruptly put off.