Production of commercial animal feed is expected to increase in January, thanks to an ambitious programme by the government to provide incentives to new investors interested in manufacturing fodder.   Agriculture CS Willy Bett yesterday said the government plans to enact new policies geared towards reducing the cost of animal feed by attracting more investors into the subsector. Wooing investors, he said this will help boost the dairy sector, which is grappling with the problem of less feed. “Acquisition of feed by livestock farmers is part of the main cost of production in the industry. The government will from January start giving incentives to investors through duty waiver of feed manufacturing,” Bett said. “We want to look at it from the policy level and come up with interventions such as reducing taxes on raw materials for feed manufacturing and seek more investments in feed manufacture. “If you want to construct a feed manufacturing plant, we’ll look at reducing taxation on some raw materials or completely eliminate taxation on importation of animal feed.” Bett said providing incentives will be a game-changer insofar as livestock production is concerned and will create jobs. He said this as experts, farmers and players in the livestock industry voiced concerns over sale of poor quality feed, which they said has been hindering growth of livestock, especially dairy cows and chickens. Some traders have been selling feed mixed with sawdust and other poor quality materials. Last week, livestock industry actors had a two-day national fodder conference in Nakuru county. In an interview, Livestock PS Andrew Tuimur said the costs of dairy and poultry farming remain high because of expensive feed. He said 70 per cent of production costs in dairy and poultry farming are entirely of feed. Tuimur said though the poultry industry is growing because of demand for eggs, farmers grapple with high prices of feed. “Uganda has a high demand for one-day-old chicks from Kenya. This is because poultry feed is much cheaper in Uganda than in Kenya, hence affordable for farmers,” he said.