As Kenya approached her Independence in the late 1950s, the political establishment of the colonialists decided to mould leaders with whom they would collaborate. These were largely men drawn from different regions and presented as representatives of the same. They were inducted through education and training, most as teachers, and appointment to institutions of political leadership. These were the people upon whom the colonial masters decided to bequeath the reins of power once the Wind of Change became clearly unstoppable. These compatriots were to be schooled in the mannerisms and traditions of the Westminster culture so that once they matured and assumed the national leadership roles, the stables would not be scuttled and scattered. The pioneer among these men of eminence was Jomo Kenyatta, starting off as Johnstone Kamau. He had a stint as principal of Githunguri Teachers College, a community institution established to address the inadequacy of local teachers and restricted access to formal education for African children. Later, Oginga Odinga, still using the name Adonijah, Daniel Moi, James Gichuru and their ilk would be incorporated in the club. The teaching profession was chosen as the leadership apprenticeship ground by design: It had a strict code of conduct modelled on the British tradition and the leader-candidates would have the opportunity to interact with crowds of citizens in the form of students, who would later be valuable in the running of the state. The students saw in these teachers, their leaders, while the teachers considered themselves the intelligentsia of tKenyan society. The settlers on the other hand were impressed by the attraction of the teachers to Western modes of lifestyle. They saw in them willing partners in the smooth transfer of power from the left hand to the right hand. Without too much effort, the departing masters established a comprador bourgeoisie for Kenya. This ensured we avoided the common path of armed struggle for Independence chosen by many African states. The armed Mau Mau resistance was undermined by lack n of think tank in its ranks, and it largely remained peasant in nature and ragtag in formation. It is during this period that seeds of tribalism were planted in this country and the founding fathers helped nurture them well by establishing the tribe as the epicentre of political mobilisation. Once in a while the tribe would also be presented as a vehicle for economic emancipation, but this was seldom pushed far. While these leaders had been inducted into Western models of political leadership, they remained bound by the strong kinship ties and engaged in what was closer to British medieval organisational skills. It was also in the best interest of the colonialists to encourage the emerging national leaders to recruit their tribesmen in their columns to act as rearguard in the event of internal competition for political office or other challenges. Since most of the African population had not interacted well during less than a century of colonial rule, it was easy for the settlers to peddle falsehoods among the population, with the aim of causing suspicion between tribes. Unwittingly, African leaders lent a helping hand in this process and the departing colonialists left happily while those who remained lived in peace. Seeds of discord and suspicion were also planted among the leaders through rumours and outright trickery. Remember that while Jaramogi was shouting himself hoarse with “Uhuru na Kenyatta”, the colonialists organised for Moi to visit Jomo Kenyatta at Lodwar. To date, the most prominent and widely circulated picture of the Kapenguria Six has Moi in the middle and holding shoulders with the incarcerated nationalist leaders. That visit was a well-organised long-term plan, whose full ramifications began to unfold in 1964, when Moi led Ronald Ngala and troupe to cross the floor, and Kenyatta was installed as President of the republic. The scramble for and partition of Kenya was instituted in earnest, and the respective tribal chiefs were in frenzied programme of establishing spheres of influence. Each group positioned itself at vantage point to capture the state. State resources were plundered left, centre and right to fill the coffers of group leaders and communities were balkanised into owners of the state or victims of the same. Three distinct political regions emerged and still play the most prominent role to date. Central emerged as holders of the yam and knife firmly under Kenyatta, Nyanza came out as their opposite number and victims, while the Kalenjin Rift Valley under Moi emerged as the middle ground but aligning itself with Central to take the spoils from the Kenyatta-Odinga fallout. These events helped cement the political unity of the Kalenjins and the Kikuyus through their founding leaders — Kenyatta and Moi — and established the fear of the Luo ascension to State House through an Odinga. The two found unity of purpose against the one initially preferred by the colonialists.  While the Kikuyus and the Kalenjins had problems with the white man for taking their land, they also had issues with the Luos for having been a little closer to the colonial master and had ranked higher in the pecking order of settler employment. A silent pact appears to have been arrived at to reserve and preserve the highest political seat for those considered to have lost the most by their land being annexed to establish the White Highlands. In this process, the trees of tribalism began to flower and soon they would bear their bitter fruits. In a bid to enhance their stranglehold on their respective tribal groupings, the leaders embarked on a mission to amass as much wealth as possible. They entered into association and corporations with external business interests through multinational corporations. Through these arrangements, national resources were pilfered through fictitious investments in shares and offshore accounts. They used their tribal alliances to build formidable business empires presented as investments but which were largely avenues of siphoning state resources into private pockets. The leaders thus engaged in primitive accumulation of wealth camouflaged as indigenous investments. Over the years, the leaders had been successful in recruiting many more of their tribesmen into the gravy train of national plunder for personal aggrandisement. The weak governance systems came in handy to offer protection to those who clearly should have found themselves convicted elsewhere. Instead, Kenya has some of the wealthiest people in the region without traceable history of inheritance, investments or savings. The personal wealth has been created by patronising state institutions, leading to what is today referred to as tenderpreneurship and accepted as a way of business. While they would want to pass off as capitalists, they are no more than agency conveyors akin to rent-seeking. On the one hand, leaders use this wealth to maintain a tight grip on the tribal alliances established over the years. The Kikuyu brought into their alliance with the Ameru, the Aembu and the Kambas, while Moi established the Kalenjin union, which later morphed into the Kamatusa (Kalenjin, Maasai, Turkana and Samburu) confederation. The rest of the tribes who felt betrayed led by the Luyhas and coastal minorities found solace in unity with the Luos. Kenya is divided into two diametrically opposed political groups deriving their respective identities from the pre-Independence tribal formations. We have the Kikuyu-Kalenjin union currently led by the Kikuyu as well as the cooperation of the marginalised tribes in association with and as led by the Luo. The leaders of these formations have captured the state so savagely and viciously that discussing the republic, democracy and constitutionalism outside this paradigm is an exercise in futility. For Kenya to tackle tribalism effectively, the leaders must see Kenya as a state in modern times, where the world is a global village and embrace best practices in political and economic mobilisation. We cannot seek to be a modern state, prosperous enough to secure the dignity of every citizen, while at the same stuck in our primordial structures of political and economic engagements. We should deliberately embrace technology for industrial production and social service delivery to ensure political leaders no longer rely on oaths and kinship structures to win and retain political power and authority.            