At least 80 per cent of suppliers of fast moving consumer goods have agreed to come on board to provide Uchumi Supermarkets with new stock. The more than 200 suppliers have agreed to provide goods, a decision that has in turn allowed the retailer to restock its 19 branches across the country. “About 200 suppliers have come back and that accounts for at least 80 per cent of our FMCG products, so a huge response from our suppliers,” Uchumi chief operating officer Andrew Dixon said. The listed retailer said suppliers came on board after reaching different agreements to stock its branches on the basis which revolves around some of the escrow payments, meaning supply will continue as long as the supermarket pays for received stock within a 30-day period. “We have not seen any resistance from suppliers and some really want to come back on board because they have seen our model is sustainable,” Uchumi acting chief executive Ahmed Mohamed. “Some are ready to give us working terms.” More than 50 per cent of the Sh700 million bail-out cash given by government went into refilling the listed retailers empty shelves while the rest was put into paying out overdue employee salaries and delayed utility bills such as electricity and rent. “The most important thing is putting the money into stock and staff because without that, we have no business,” Dixon said. “Suffice to say that the staff has been paid to date.” Nixon said the government bail-out received December 1 restored suppliers’ trust in the retailer’s revival strategy adding that it had also prompted a due diligence process that will see Uchumi receive around Sh3.5 billion from an undisclosed investor before the end of March 2018. Capital received from the strategic investor, in addition with cash received from the sale of a 20-acre piece of land worth Sh3 billion in Kasarani, will be used to settle accumulated supplier debt as the retailer moves back to normalcy. “We have engaged with them and we are hoping in the new year as the investor money and the Kasarani money comes in to start working on their payment plans,” Dixon said. Earlier in the year, the government released Sh500 million to ease supplier debt as part of a Sh1.8 billion bailout from the state. National Treasury now wants the listed retailer to stabilise its Kenyan operations before releasing the remaining Sh600 million meant for re-entry into the Uganda and Tanzania markets. Some of the suppliers that have come back on board include Coca Cola, Bidco, Unilever and Chandaria Industries Limited. The retailer has also managed to restock groceries, liquor products, household items as well as its bakery. “We are not just back for Christmas. We are back permanently,” Dixon said.