    Talk of trying to do things abnormally in a sensitive situation. Word has it that an MC met NASA leader Raila Odinga’s wrath at City Mortuary on Thursday when he went to console the families of victims of police brutality. It is said the MC, who seemed unenlightened, angered Raila when he requested Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati to speak after the NASA leader finished the consolation session. It is said the agitated NASA leader openly told off the MC before everyone dispersed.      S first-term MP shocked his colleagues when he stood on the floor of the House affirming that the proceeds he used to get while serving as a Church Bishop were heftier than the ones he is currently being offered as a lawmaker. He recalled how he used to peep into the offerings and stare at the huge chunks of cash from the hundreds of believers. He openly regretted that his new role as an honourable member has attracted myriads of dependents from his constituency who approach him with a variety of pressing needs. His narration of how life has changed was received with laughter from his colleagues as they debated on the need to have the CDF Board members approved on time for speedy delivery of services “to the mwananchi”.     Still on the August House, times are really changing for the MPs in the 12th Parliament. Of late there is a fresh high-octane appetite by politicians to video-record themselves while making contributions, then footage with the electorate on various social media platforms. Legislators who are technologically challenged have found themselves under pressure from their colleagues who are challenging them to up their game. Some MPs, Corridors learnt, are made uncomfortable by their colleagues who frequently hand them phones to do the recording as they contribute in the House. Others are even planning to start online television channels and even go live on Facebook.     A dangerous game is afoot at a Western region-based university. In an apparent case of ethnic-driven favouritism, a senior official in the Ministry of Education has undertaken to protect a beleaguered official of the university who happens to be a fellow tribesman. The university official has been indicted by the EACC for gross misappropriation of the institution’s resources and flagrant intimidation and irregular sacking of officers the EACC wants to assist in the ongoing investigations. It appears both the senior official at Jogoo House and the varsity official have decided to side-step the counsel and wisdom of Education CS Fred Matiang’i to stop their witch-hunt  on members of the university council who do not hail from Western.