The Caramel Restaurant and Lounge is a trendy eatery located on the 2nd floor of ABC Place. Stepping out of the elevator, you notice the dark interiors and hardwood floors, which gives an atmosphere of a sophisticated dining pub. But the booth seating by the windows are well-lit, with modern furnishings and fixtures all around. The restaurant markets itself as American dining, with meals such as Cobb Salad, beef sliders, Mac and Cheese, and Baked Alaska. Yet they also have famous dishes from around the world, such as the chicken lollipops from India, Middle Eastern shawarma bites, and the Kenya-inspired Malindi Sole. The menu has several beef and seafood options. The 21-day dry-aged rib-eye steak is said to be a favourite and quite large at 400g. Other classic steaks are aged striploin or a Surf and Turf mix of aged tenderloin and giant prawns.  From the seafood options, I ordered the pan-seared Norwegian salmon with white beans, bacon and buttered asparagus, and it did not disappoint. Some distinctive side-dishes are the lobster mash potatoes with bisque and chive butter, and the pommes frites (chips) flavoured with garlic and parmesan cheese.  For lighter fare, the Shared for the Table menu of starters has many options. I particularly liked the seared beef carpaccio sprinkled with parmesan cheese, capers and truffle flavoured oil. The lightly battered, deep-fried TNT Shrimp with spicy Japanese mayo is another popular appetiser. We ate our lunch in the main dining area. It was a busy day, the waitstaff seemed overburdened and we waited long for food service. A long bar and high cocktail tables are ideal for drinking patrons with a happy hour specials starting at 4pm. In another section is a lounge area with low seats, which lends itself to a relaxed evening, especially when a DJ is playing. However, the music can get quite loud in this low-ceiling space.  Once month, there is a Latin dancing class, followed by open dancing. Caramel is part of a Dubai-based chain of restaurants with other branches in Oman and London.    Location: ABC Place, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi Contacts: +254 716 663463   Star Rating:     4/5