Meru clergies, leaders and residents have mourned the three Igembe AIPCA bishops who died in a road accident along Embu-Makutano road on Friday night. The three bishops, Philip Kubai of Igembe North, Stanley Karuru of Igembe Central and Moses M'Eruri of Igembe South died on spot after a head-on collision. The drivers of the two vehicles sustained serious injuries. Read: Three bishops perish in Embu road crash The accident occurred at around 8:30 pm as the clergy were travelling to Nairobi after attending a church function in Embu. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said "I have been saddened by the untimely demise of three bishops through tragic road accident in Embu. "On my own behalf and the good people of Meru County and Meru County Government, I take this early opportunity to convey heartfelt condolences to the families of the three Bishops; Kubai, Karuru and M'Eruri. I knew the three great Men of God personally and their untimely death is truly a big blow to the entire AIPCA fraternity and Meru County and the entire Christian Family," the governor said. Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi who spoke said the three were a unifying factor in Nyambene region. "The loss of the spiritual leaders has left a big gap to Igembe Christian fraternity at large. They played a vital role in uniting our community. The three united the whole Nyambene region. Its a big loss to our nation." Tigania East MP Gichunge Josphat advised drivers to exercise caution on the roads. "Drivers should not drive recklessly or gamble with lives. They must drive carefully," he told journalists at St. Angela's Girls Secondary secondary school in his constituency. Igembe North MP Maoka Maore said "The loss of the entire Igembe AIPCA at a go is a shock to all. I condole with the families, all churches and community." Bishop Stanley Muthomi who is the administrative secretary AIPCA church and chairman synod Meru region expressed his grief on the loss of the three bishops stating that the church and the community at large has suffered a huge blow.  Click here for the latest political news    