Title: Revival Artiste: Eminem Genre: Hip hop Release: December 15   A few months ago, Marshall Mathers delivered a four-and-a-half-minute, beatless rap freestyle attacking US President Donald Trump’s rule. It split skeptics and fans. Some felt he had once again conquered the rap scene, while others thought he was overrated. Well, the debate of whether Eminem is the GOAT would only be confirmed if he released a comeback full-length LP, which he actually did. So is the new release enough? Does he remain intent on convincing listeners if he is still a top contender for the rap throne? Does he outdo his biggest competitors? Well, the answer to all these questions is a big, bold NO. His latest album, “Revival”, is built around racial profiling, self-scrutiny and self-deploring messages. It is a 19-track effort that, when pitted against other major releases like Kendrick Lamar’s “Damn” and Jay Z’s “4:44”, doesn’t stand a chance. There are too many appalling moments obvious to listeners who, even though Em incorporates the modern sound, would have expected a greater artistic transformation. The 77-minute project kicks off with strong vocals from Beyonce on “Walk on Water”, a track that highlights Em’s career as the epitome of good rap. And just as it ends ,he begins to trade bars on “Believe”, which exhibits the rappers first attempt on the contemporary trap hip hop beat. There’s something awfully off about the first half of “Untouchable”, but Em manages to rescue it in the second half with a proper flow and strong bars addressing racial discrimination. Em features Phrespher on another modern rap track, “Chloraseptic” as Ed Sheeran introduces acoustics on “River”, a track that details the rapper’s broken relationship. Alicia Keys joins Em on “Like Home”, a track that greatly disproves of Trump’s regime. Also featured on the LP are X Ambassadors, Skylar Grey, Kehlani and P!nk.    After going through the 19 tunes, you realise there’s nothing revived about the rapper and his music. It is probably his worst work to date. Eminem delivers some memorable moments when he exhibits some of his strongest lines ever, but there’s nothing exciting beyond that.   Star rating: 3 out of 5