National team Harambee Stars were yesterday promised Sh50 million by the government should they qualify for the 2019 African Cup of Nations. Stars won the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup on Sunday, prompting corporates and well wishers to award the playing unit and the technical bench with monetary prizes as a way of appreciating their performance.  The national team had earlier on received Sh3 million from sports betting firm SportPesa, Sh 1 million from governors Alfred Mutual and Mike Sonko and shopping vouchers worth Sh10,000 for each player from Tuskys Supermarket. Yesterday, the team was hosted by the Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen home where he delivered his promise of Sh 5 million, which he made during the finals at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. During the occasion, the team was further promised Sh10 million by the President and a bus. Kenya’s hopes of securing a spot in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon were further boosted by the announcement of a Sh50 million prize should they make it to Yaoundé. With SportPesa already assuring the team of Sh3 million cash prize in any group match win, the government’s announcement is set to motivate the boys to fight for a place in the finals. Kenya is pooled alongside football giants Ghana, neighbours Ethiopia and Sierra Leone. Kenya lost their first match away to Freetown and face a huge task of overturning the three point deficit in a bid to make it to the continental showpiece. Should the government deliver the travelling bus in January as promised, Stars’ will bolster their movement to various training base’s as well as cut the costs of hiring a bus for the same. Harambee Stars have been missing from the Afcon since 2004 and the current federation remain keen on making a return to the tournament in 2019. Their seriousness to make the cut is backed by their recent hiring of experienced and foreign coach Paul Put. The latest move to drag the national government and some county governments in supporting the team will definitely encourage the playing unit to give their best. The recent call by the head coach to fans to support the national team will also motivate the team in achieving a return to the African show. The Cecafa triumph may have quenched the success-starved fans thirsty but making it to Afcon will ensure full return of the fans to the stadium.