Police officers raped more than 36 women during the chaos that followed the August 8 General Election, a new report by Human Rights Watch says. The report called ‘They Were Men in Uniform: Sexual Violence against Women and Girls in Kenya’s 2017 Election’ was released yesterday. It documented 71 victims; 68 women and three men. HRW faulted the government for failing to prevent election-related sexual violence. It also said case presented to the government were not properly investigated the state failed to hold attackers accountable. Read: 37 killed in post-poll demos, bribery and hate campaigns rife - KNCHR Also Read:NASA claims 100 killed in post-poll chaos, reject Uhuru re-election There were also no measures to ensure survivors have access to comprehensive, quality and timely post-rape care. “The impact of sexual violence on survivors is devastating,” HRW senior rights researcher Agnes Odhiambo said. “Almost all women and girls we spoke to suffered physical harm and profound mental trauma. They feared their attackers may never be held accountable,” Odhiambo added. The victims were recorded and interviewed in Mathare, Dandora and Kibera, in Nairobi. Some were recorded in Kisumu and Bungoma. Twelve witnesses were also interviewed. Twelve Kenyan and international civil society activists and community volunteers provided services to the victims. Most women and girls said the violence was committed by brutal gangs, often involving two or more attackers. “Many said that they were raped vaginally and anally. They were penetrated with objects. Some were raped in the presence of family members, including young children,” the report says. Most women said they were raped by policemen who were in uniform. Many of them carried guns, batons, teargas canisters, whips and wore helmets and riot gear. “In one case, a girl died after being raped,” the report says. Many victims did not report their attack to police for fear of stigmatisation and lack of confidence in the service. “For the few who reported, police were not supportive and sometimes refused to even book the incidences,” Odhiambo said. HRW called on the government to institute a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate the cases. It also wants the government to give a public apology to the victims. For more political stories click here https://www.the-star.co.ke