The national government is rooting for small-scale coffee farmers
in new reforms to support coffee planting. The National Coffee Sub-Sector Implementation Committee appointed by
President Uhuru Kenyatta last year to fast-track new reforms in the industry
has underscored the need to support the reform agenda so that Kenya can expand its
share in the international market. The committee chairman Joseph Kieyah said Kenya's share in the
international market is currently below one per cent. "The government agenda has strategies to reduce cost of
producing coffee by providing adequate planting materials and training farmers
on good agricultural practices. The receptive changes will help in luring youth
into coffee business,” said Keiyah.  According to the Ministry of
Agriculture, the national average age of a coffee farmer is 60 years. The strategy includes introducing coffee planting to more
locations in the country, enhancing productivity per tree to more than 10
kilogrammes unlike the national average of two kilogrammes per tree.   He said Kenya has potential to produce more than 300,000 metric
tonnes but the highest it has ever achieved is 130,000 MT in the 1987/88 coffee
year. Since mid-1980s when the industry was affected by structural
adjustment programmes, introduced by the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund, annual production has been fluctuating at between 40,000 and 50,000 metric
tonnes. “Farmers are unable to contribute to high rural growth owing to
high cost of doing coffee business due to lack of access to improved coffee
varieties such as Batian and Ruiri 11, expensive farm inputs  and low
investments in terms of modern agricultural practices,” said Kieyah.   “Through collaboration, we will enhance ownership to small-scale
farmers unlike in the current situation where the growers have been isolated by other
value chain agents to enjoy their hard-earned sweat,” said Kieyah.   Keiyah observed that Kenya coffee farmers receive the least
globally in terms of export price at 30 per cent while in countries including
Brazil, Vietnam, and Colombia, they receive between 80 and 90 per cent.  Uganda
is leading in Africa in terms of exports at four million bags while Ethiopia is
the top producer at more than six million bags annually.     The Coffee Productivity Project, a Sh277 million EU grant project,
was designed in 2013 to ensure decentralisation of coffee research activities
to maximise production of planting materials and enhance access to farmers. Under the project, the Coffee Research Institute contracted 28 coffee
societies in 14 coffee growing counties to produce seedlings and sell to farmers
at subsidized prices. CRI director Elijah Gichuru said farmers struggle with
inadequate planting materials and old coffee varieties, leading to low
production. "We decentralised production of seedlings as part of reducing
cost of production and ensuring timely access and minimising cost of production
and other eventualities,” he said in an interview. Under the project, Gichuru
said over 50,000 small-scale farmers have been reached and more than 3,500
acres put under the coffee crop.   David Mwangi, the head of the European Union delegation in charge of
co-operation, said it is about time the old generation coffee farmer handed over
management of the crop to the youth. “Most of the youth are avoiding the coffee business due to the old
people continuing hanging on among other challenges,” he said.  