Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o is facing hurdles in his efforts to relocate the Kachok dumpsite to Kajulu in Kisumu East. He pledged to achieve this within 100 days in office. Kachok, an eyesore to residents, is near Moi Stadium, barely a few metres from downtown. Nyong’o christened the heaped garbage Got Ranguma (Mt Ranguma) in reference to his predecessor, Jack Ranguma. Read: [VIDEO] Nyong’o sworn in, Ranguma absent The county boss had launched removal of the waste, but the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority directed that relocation be halted until a proper aeronautical study is conducted. This was in a letter dated November 20 to Naya Holding Limited and copied to county secretary Olang’o Onudi. It demanded that Naya undertake a study to determine if the proposed dumpsite — a five-acre quarry owned by Naya is a flight hazard. The letter is signed by Captain Raphael Kingori on behalf of KCAA director general Gilbert Kibe. It says the relocation will not commence unless approved by the authority. Kingori said dumpsites attract birds, which are a flight hazard, hence the need for a proper study. The proposed site is about 13km from the Kisumu International Airport. Read: Lupita thanks Kisumu for electing her father, wishes Nyong'o the best   Nyong’o also faces opposition from Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabbir, who has faulted him and city manager Doris Ombara for relocating the dumpsite to his constituency.  “Relocation will only happen over my dead body,” he told the Star during an interview at his Kisumu office yesterday. Kajulu residents have opposed the relocation, accusing Nyong’o of failing to conduct public participation. They said only a few elders were involved last week in approving the relocation. Shabbir said the county government should adopt an integrated garbage management system like that in Germany and Kampala. He said there was no public participation and called for a proper environmental assessment. Shabbir said the relocation will only take place if the county follows due process. He urged Nyong’o and Ombara to avoid shortcuts and instead consider health implictions. One of the main requirements in the expression of interest that was advertised in a local daily said the land should be located 0.25-0.005 km away from any human settlement. But the proposed dumpsite has many residents living next to it, contrary to environmental and social requirements and solid waste management regulations.   Click here for the latest political stories