This week Parliament will be a beehive of activities as constitution of committees and election of EALA MPs are top on the agenda. Members of the National Assembly will resume on Wednesday and will have day-long sittings on the same day and also on Thursday before they break for long recess. On Wednesday morning, the MPs are expected to approve names to various committees. In the afternoon, the committee members will elect chairpersons and vice chairpersons. Read : Top ten favourites in race for EALA nomination The election can, however, spill to Thursday morning. The committee on Selection which is chaired by Majority leader Aden Duale is likely to meet today to distribute members as per their application forms submitted last week to Duale’s office and that of Minority leader John Mbadi, who also sit in the committee. The members of the committee on Selection which was approved by the House last week include Jimmy Angwenyi, Benjamin Washiali, Jude Njomo, Beatrice Nyagah, Khatib Mwashetani, Faith Wairimu, David Pkosing, David ole Sankok, William Chepkut, Gladwell Jesire, John Kiarie and William Kisang. They are all from Jubilee. The opposition will be represented in the committee by Junet Mohammed, Florence Mutual, Nicholas Mwale, Benson Mulu, Owen Baya, Ahmed Ibrahim and Catherine Wambilianga. MPs have started jostling for Committee chairperson positions. Also read : List of EALA nominees to be tabled in Parliament It is understood that for the Jubilee Party members, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will have the final say on who chairs the various committees. Yesterday, Duale told the Star Jubilee will hold a Parliamentary Group meeting to be chaired by Uhuru. “We are finalising on parliamentary leadership and will be submitting the list on Wednesday in our parliamentary group meeting.The Speaker will also this week make a communication on various NASA letters regarding their parliamentary leadership,” he said. On Wednesday or Thursday morning, the MPs are expected to endorse commissioners to the Parliamentary Service Commission and on Thursday afternoon, election of EALA MPs will be conducted. Click here for the latest political news