NASA’s woes over the EALA nominees seem far from over after an official of an affiliate yesterday challenged the list in court. Ford Kenya assistant secretary general Yasser Ali seeks to have the nominations dismissed. He said nomination of the NASA members was incurably and fatally flawed in substance, law and procedure, and violated Article 47 of the Constitution. Last week, NASA and Jubilee forwarded 27 names. “Ford-K was not consulted nor provided with an opportunity to lobby for its preferred candidate,” Ali says. “Ford-K is an equal coalition partner and constituent party in the final decision-making process.” NASA nominees include Raila Odinga’s brother Oburu Oginga, Kalonzo Musyoka’s son Kennedy Musyoka, alliance CEO Norman Magaya, Fatuma Ibrahim and Winfred Mutua. Ali wants the court to compel NASA to produce the minutes of the meeting in which the final decision to nominate the members was reached. He also wants the court to stop the National Assembly from recognising any names submitted by NASA. The court should stop the 12 NASA nominees from canvassing, lobbying, campaigning or seeking the support of any MP entitled to vote at the election by the National Assembly and the Senate, Ali says in court documents. He said the list bears no nominee from Ford-K and that his name was excluded. There was no legal obligation either on the part of the respondents or the clerks of Parliament to publish the list of NASA nominees, he says.  “Failing to consider the inclusion of a member from one of its coalition partners and a member from the Coast region — a NASA stronghold — amounts to a heinous act of impunity,” Ali said. He adds that he was one of the three Ford-K members whose applications were considered by the clerks of both Houses and forwarded to NASA for consideration as nominee. On November 30, Ali said NASA violated and disregarded the provisions of EALA Rules on nomination and the rights and interests of persons as enshrined in the Constitution. He said NASA did not involve, consult or grant Ford-K an opportunity to inspect and verify the authenticity of the nomination papers of the eventual nominees. Ali said the alliance should be free from bias and above reproach. He said he is from a marginalised group, hence preventing him from being an EALA MP is in breach of Article 56 of the Constitution.