SUPPLIERS in this year’s World Athletics Under 18 Championship held at Kasarani Stadium are an angry lot. Reason? Word has it that the money they were to be paid by the Sports ministry under CS Hassan Wario (pictured) was taken by the Kenya Revenue Authority. Our mole tells Corridors that the money deposited in the ministry’s Sports Kenya account was taken by KRA to repay uncleared tax returns amounting to millions of shillings. It is said the suppliers are now up in arms, demanding Wario pay them after making the international championships a success. It is said the suppliers are no longer going to desist until they get their dues. Some residents of Kieni constituency, Nyeri county, were angered as they ushered in Jamhuri Day celebrations on Monday night. It is said some patrons in a popular bar in Kieni East subcounty protested on the eve of Jamhuri, lamenting that their favourite keg beer was not well fine-tuned by the manufacturer. Our mole tells Corridors that they were very unhappy, saying the manufacturers had diluted the beer with a lot of water. This made them lose myriads of clients and count huge loses. Some of the irate revellers were overheard seeking the intervention of area MP Kanini Kega. Corridors has been told they even resolved to dig deep into their pockets to pay for an alternative brand as they raved overnight. A former MP from Eastern trounced in the August 8 polls on the Jubilee ticket is behaving badly after filing a petition challenging his successor’s win. Although the hearing is still on course, the petitioner, who has a serious affinity for the bottle, has of late taken to bragging in pubs in the constituency that he has already won the suit. Our mole says the Jubilee man never ceases to speak loudly that he has influenced the outcome and that the constituents should be ready for a by-election. He brags that it is a foregone conclusion that the case will be determined in his favour as he has played his cards right. Whether his chest thumping will come to pass only time will tell when the judge handling the case decides. THERE were celebrations among Cabinet Secretaries and their Principal Secretaries after word went round in their circle that President Uhuru Kenyatta will not be reconstituting his Cabinet soon, at least not before Christmas. Word has it that some had been thrown into panic after it was reported that Uhuru could dissolve his current Cabinet and sack several of them before December 12.