The parents of the baby who had 14 needles in her body have been arrested and accused of "heinous child abuse and torture". The operation on the 10-month-old was carried out at Thika Level Five hospital. Doctors at the facility are working out ways to remove the last needle from the child's hip bone. How the objects ended up in the infant's body, since there were no penetration marks, remains a mystery. More on this: Puzzle as Thika doctors remove 13 needles from infant's body Isaac Gichuna (41) and Jacinta Ndunge (31) were arrested at the hospital on Monday and taken to Thika police station for questioning. Thika OCPD Willy Simba said they will remain in their custody and be taken to court once they finish investigating. “We are going to charge them with child neglect and torture," he told journalists. Thika sub-county children’s officer Rebecca Kariuki said the parents were arrested after officers found their version of the story questionable. Kariuki said doctors notified her office of the case three weeks ago. She said the department then summoned the mother for questioning but that she refused to reveal how the needles ended up in her baby's body. Kariuki said it was illogical for Gichuna to claim she did not have an explanation as the child was in her and her husband's care all through.  The officer said the infant and her two siblings will be taken to Macheo Children’s Home and remain there until the matter is settled. “We suspect child abuse and neglect and since she has refused to open up, we had no choice but to hand her over to police. If they find her innocent, we will release her daughter to her," she said. “My officers will go to Kiganjo to collect the other two minors for safe custody as we cannot let them suffer at home." Gichuna said he had no reason to suspect foul play on his wife's part as he did not think she could harm her own children. The quarry worker said he noticed his daughter had trouble sitting up two days before they took her to hospital. “She used to cry a lot. I thought this was because she was unwell so I instructed her mother to take her to hospital if her condition deteriorated." The woman was pricked by a sharp object while preparing her daughter for the hospital visit on suspicion she had pneumonia.  Doctors were shocked by their discovery and sources at the hospital said the state of the needles indicated they may have been in the child's body for a while. Gichuna pleaded with police to release him and his wife so they can take care of their children.  Click here for the latest political stories