Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya on Saturday issued form ones from Kinango sub-county, who secured slots in various national schools, with a cheque valued at Sh43.5 million for fees. He said that before new year, they county will have issued Sh127 million to 2,797 students from the county who secured form one slots in national schools. The governor underscored the need for parents to advise their children in matters of education so that they sustain the good performance they exhibited in KCPE. "I know some of you think this is just a grant from the county government but you need to advise your children to work hard as that will be the only to creating for them a bright future." Speaking on Saturday at Kinango secondary school, the governor added that Kwale has pulled a first with the national schools scholarship programme. "This has made us shine in the country as none other county has implemented it," Mvurya said. "We started this project in 2013 and many people were thinking that it is a dream. We are glad it has turn out to be a reality," he added. He further praised Bakari Mwacheo from Kagumo high school who scored an A plain in the recently released KCSE exam results. Mwacheo is a beneficiary of the scholarship programme and will join university through the same. The governor said he is happy that the programme has motivated many young people in the county to a point of them excelling in national examinations. He further hailed the development progress made in the region saying key sectors such as tourism, health, education, sanitation, among others have reported successes.  "Everything has now flourished in Kwale including the ocean. People come from the whole Africa to see our beautiful beaches in Diani," the governor said. He told people to shun politicians who spread propaganda against him saying they do not mean well to Kwale people. "The previous election results showed that people have trust in my government. They spread propaganda but you showed them that you're with me," he said. Also read: I'll not approve People's Assembly motion, Mvurya tells Kwale MCAs Read: Acrimony as Kwale passes People’s Assembly motion Click here for the latest political news  