President Uhuru Kenyatta needs to appoint a team of Cabinet Secretaries ready to focus on the four-point agenda he put forth at his inauguration on November 28. Already, there are constitutional guidelines on what the Cabinet should be composed of and requirements such as gender and regional balance will be followed. In terms of qualification, the President will be looking at experienced and persons with high competence to ensure he achieves his four-point agenda – manufacturing, affordable housing, healthcare and food security. As for who those persons will be, it is in the purview of President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto. This is a legacy term and Cabinet appointees should be in tandem with the President's legacy by implementing flagship and rubber-stamping his signature projects, including universal healthcare, infrastructure development and free secondary education. The competence of the persons in the Cabinet will be more important if some will be August General Election poll losers. The President will be picking his ministers having looked at their competence. Parliament does oversight and will only crosscheck if there are any concerns raised about nominees that may have not been addressed by the appointing authority.  Parliament will vet the personal integrity of the appointees so that if there are things hidden from the President, it can say the person is unsuitable.  Propagandists and people who have refused to accept that the Cabinet is all-inclusive have been peddling the narrative of regional discrimination. When you tell someone that Defense CS Raychelle Omamo is from Nyanza or Judi Wakhungu is from Western, they tell you that they are merely women. What’s this if not stupidity? Such nonsense must end in this country. When someone has been appointed from a certain region, that person is a representative of that region and responsible to all Kenyans. There is no docket for a particular gender in the Cabinet. Instead, all dockets are for responsibility. To be appointed a nominee should not be influential in their regions, because they serve the country in the office of the Cabinet. The narrative of those persons who are not known, powerful or have not done political activities in their regions is part of the disease. The President is the person who has political responsibility. Cabinet Secretaries are not politically responsible – they deliver to the country.  It will be important to also have youthful persons in Cabinet.  The writer is the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator        