Lugari MP Ayub Savula has threatened that NASA will reject CS Fred Matiang'i if he is reappointed to the education in the new Cabinet. The legislator accused the Cabinet Secretary of messing up the sector through hurried reforms adding that Matiang'i is not fit to head the ministry. NASA MPs will reject the name in Parliament should he reappointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta," Savula said in Eldoret on Sunday. "Matiangi is overplaying things in a way to make Kenyans think he is the best but he is a disaster. He should not head the education ministry." The MP supported demands by KNUT to have the recent KCSE exams results recalled over alleged marking problems that led to mass failures by students. "There has been an unnecessary rush by the CS on exams and other reforms. These are messing up the lives of our children," Savula said. He said the KCSE results must be recalled and audited further faulting the CS' proposal for the merging of the management of secondary and primary schools which share the same compound. "We can't agree with plans which are not well-thought. The running of a primary school is far much different from the secondary schools and that proposal in bound to cause chaos," he said. Read: Storm rages over integrity of 'rushed' KCSE   Separately, the National Parents Association has defended the recent KCSE examinations results and asked leaders to stop politicising education issues. Chairman Nicholas Maiyo said they have confidence in the credibility of the results much as KNUT wants the same recalled over alleged marking irregularities. "Stakeholders should concentrate on dealing with problems which caused mass failures and the general declining performance by boys," he said. NASA leader Raila Odinga is among the leaders who have cast doubt on the recently released KCSE results saying the massive failures are detrimental to the country. He wants a task force formed to take views of parents, teachers, and unions who have issues with the management of examinations. Also read: Principals' reshuffle won't cure KCSE mass failure, Raila tells Matiang'i Read: Mass failures: What happened? Did all schools cheat?  Click here for the latest political news