Life has not been kind to 17-year-old Evodia Mbele and has thrown the worst her way. The girl has, however, beaten all odds to excel in this year’s KCPE exam. She scored 373 marks. Evodia and her younger sister Kyla Mbeso were abandoned by their mother. They struggled to survive. Read more : Free secondary education in January as promised – Uhuru Evodia worked as a househelp in Muguga estate in Thika, Mbele. She first sat the KCPE exam in 2015 at Gatuanyaga Primary School in Thika East, Kiambu county. She scored 261 marks. She could not join secondary school for lack of school fees. Two years later, she sat the exam a second time at New Bambini School, thanks to school proprietor Jane Chege. Mbele told the Star she had hoped to score more than 400 marks, but she was restless, thinking about the whereabouts of her mother. “It is 10 years now since I last saw my mum or heard from her. She just left us and never came back. No one knows her whereabouts,” she said. “However, I did my best and managed to score good marks that can take me to a high school. I’m only praying that God brings a kind-hearted person my way to assist me pursue secondary school education.” Mbele said she had given up hope of continuing with her education after she failed to join a secondary school last year. But then Chege of New Bambini School came to her rescue and took her back to school. “I had taken a handkerchief and a nail cutter to my younger sister at the school. This is because I saw her wiping tears with a tissue paper at our grandmother’s burial and promised to find a way to get her a handkerchief. I met Chege and after narrating my story and she invited me to join the school,” she said. “She was an angel sent my way by God.” Read more : State releases Sh8.6 billion for free primary, secondary education Mbele said her aunt, Jane Ndulu, with whom she lives with in a rented house in Muguga, is a casual labourer and cannon afford school fees. “Sometimes it is hard for her to provide food. Sometimes we even go hungry for two days,” she said. Mbele wants to study mass communication once she completes her secondary education. She said she hopes to join St Francis Girls’ in Mang’u or Kabaare Girls’ High School. Mbele appealed to well-wishers to assist her achieve her dreams so she can support her aunt and her younger sister. “I also hope that someday I’ll see my mother again,” she said. Read more : Equip day schools ahead of free secondary education, state told She also pleaded with area MP Patrick Wainaina, who is known as Wajungle, to assist in with her education. Chege told the Star, “She is an enthusiastic girl who is willing to pursue her education. If she finds help, she will surely do well.” “I plead with kind-hearted people to assist in shaping Evodia’s future and help her achieve her dreams.” “We have to find ways to help her because if she is left on her own at her age, she might lose direction in life.” Chege said she will partner with any well-wisher who wishes to support Mbele to ensure she joins a school of her choice. Click here for the latest political news 