Kenya Cup newbies Kisii RFC remains unfazed despite starting life at top tier with two consecutive losses. Kisii lost 33-6 against champions KCB in their first home match on Saturday to add to the 45-15 to Nakuru in their opener. Kisii coach Nick Abok said: “The boys played well but made mistakes which were, at the end, costly. We shall work on the mistakes this week ahead of the game against Strathmore on Saturday.”  He also reveled they will work on strength and conditioning, which cost them dearly in the second half against KCb. “Our goal of maintaining our status in Kenya Cup remains. We are targeting our first win against Strathmore,” said Abok. His KBC counterpart Curtis Olago said: “Kisii is a good side. They put up good effort and I hope it works for them. The game was good even though we had to dig deep to overcome them.” “It is an historic moment,” said Kisii chairman Walter Orangi. “We don’t take anything for granted. We are looking forward to a good outing in the next match.” In a match played before a capacity crowd at Gusii Stadium, Francis Mwita scored a try which was converted by Esau Otieno to give KCB the lead but Brian Kevince scored a penalty to give Kisii hope at 7-3. Peter Kilonzo added KCB’s tally with a try which was converted by Otieno to give them a 14-3 lead. Kelvince reduced Kisii’s deficit when he drilled home another penalty to make make it 14-6 Rocky Aguko scored a try which was converted by Otieno while Mwita scored his second try of the game to give KCB a 26-6 lead before Arthur Owira scored the last try of the game which was converted by Otieno. Elsewhere, Quins coach Joe Ng’ang’a expressed delight after his charges thrashed Nakuru 46-19 to bounce back from their 41-39 defeat to Homeboyz. “The boys started slowly but our execution in attack was superb. We put Nakuru under pressure and dominated the set pieces. I am happy with the result,” said Ng’ang’a. The hosts outscored the visitors by six tries to three. Ronald Musajja, Tony Mutai Pter Misango , Dennis Muhanji, Eric Shikuku, and Lewis Olaka scored a try each with Kelvin Njugi added five conversions and two penalties. Henry Ayah, George Kimani and Moses Okendo scored try each for Nakuru In other results Impala edged Mwamba 30-12, Kabras thrashed Strathmore Leos 44-13.