Have you ever watched YouTube videos of people expressing their views, showcasing skill or simply doing good hair – and you felt you could do better? You were convinced that your talent is higher than what you were watching. You’re probably right. But, it doesn’t matter. At that point, the world doesn’t care about the quality of your skill. What they care about is the one who bravely showed up, made videos and became visible. You may be the best, but if no one knows, the brave with average skill will always win. The brave will always do better than the best. Some awesome talents may never flourish because they lack the courage to step out and shine. They are waiting for the ‘right’ opportunity. These people are great at what they do, but it’s a private affair. And they pride in being hidden, yet express dissatisfaction at the limitations that hiding brings. They want greatness, but are not willing to share their gift with the world. In the success story, great talent isn’t enough; being the best doesn’t guarantee success. You must also be brave. You must find the courage to share your gift with others. Sharing is a key to greatness. If your gift is locked up, brings joy to no one and stays hidden – greatness is unlikely. Giving what you have matters. Sharing is important because your gift is a solution to someone’s problem. Your skill is an answer to someone’s question. What you have is the missing piece to someone’s puzzle. Some people are critical of others who have found the courage to get into the arena of life to express themselves, while they hide in fear. So, what is your arena? Are you playing in it? Or, are you hiding in fear? Are you greatly talented, but never show up for the game of life? You may be better than those in the arena, but we will not know if you do not show up. How sad. If you will not get in the game, please stop criticizing those who are brave enough to play. It does not matter that you can do better – no one cares if you are not doing it. And until you become a doer, you’re at the mercy of those who are doing. So, what is it going to be? Will you stay the best without courage or will you display your greatness? If your candle light is hidden, it’s useless.    