Controversies bedeviling the Luo Council of Elders have taken a new twist after some elders from Homa Bay County called for dissolution of the outfit. The elders want the two rival groups led by Willis Opiyo Otondi and Nyandiko Ongadi dissolved to enable the community to have a well structured council leadership. Led by the branch chair Odak Mbaka, the elders accused the rival camps accusing them of image of tarnishing the community for selfish gain. "It’s high time the two rival groups were dissolved to spare our respected community an in image in the society. Or else political vested interests will tear it apart and cause disintegration to the community," Mbaka said on Tuesday. Mbaka, said to be enjoying close friendship with NASA leader Raila Odinga, argued that the sustained rivalry between Otondi and Ongadi will distract the community's attention from pertinent issues. "As elders from Luo community we must strive to speak with one voice instead of being puppets of politicians whose missions and visions may be parochial and short term," he added. Mbaka, who was flanked by Rangwe subcounty council chair Ogola  Nyambere and Homa Bay Town's Olela Siso, declared that Otondi is the bona fide chair of the outfit, but his reign has reached a point that calls for elections in order to restore unity. "Elders who want peace and unity for the Luo community must join us in our quest to have a new and strong council leadership capable of carrying the community’s vision to the next level," Siso said. But Otondi and Ongadi dismissed the calls for election with each claiming the bona fide chairmanship of the council. Otondi said he was voted as the chairman of the outfit by elders by the community and nobody should expect another election. "The law is clear that election for chairmanship of the council can only be conducted when the position holder dies, resigns or when it’s incapacitated and deemed not fit to hold the office position any longer," Otondi told The Star. He accused Ongadi and his team of perpetrating squabbles in the leadership of council for monetary gains from politicians. "I’m neither ready to engage nor compete with elders who are out to use the name of the community for selfish gains," said Otondi. Ongadi said he holds the certificate for the chairmanship of the council, and challenged Otondi to explain to the community who elected him. Ongadi claimed he and his group are the recognised members of Luo council of elders, noting that they operate from Ofafa Social Hall in Kisumu as their main office. “I’m the one mandated to speak on behalf of elders of the community since we have the certificate and Key to our headquarter office. Other elders are masqueraders,” Ongadi said. Ongadi threatened to take Otondi group to court if they continue fighting and failing to recognise him over the seat. WHEN WRANGLES STARTED The controversies in the council can be traced back to 2007 when the
then chairman Riaga Ogallo was accused of endorsing a line-up of
parliamentary aspirants across Luo Nyanza to unseat the then incumbents. He
was reported to have endorsed Sammy Wakiaga against the late Otieno
Kajwang’  for Mbita, while in Gem he had a soft spot for Gor Mahia
chairman Ambrose Rachier against former MP Jakoyo Midiwo,. In
Rarieda constituency he had endorsed former MP Nicholas Gumbo before he
changed tune and rallied behind the current MP Otiende Amollo. Former
Alego Usonga MP Arthur Weya also suffered the same onslaught when
Ogallo endorsed the former MP Edwin Yinda to take over from him.  In
the then Kasipul-Kabondo, Ogallo was supporting Richard Muga to take
over from former MP Paddy Ahenda against former MP Oyugi Magwanga who
was successfully elected twice. In the then larger Ugenya, Ogallo
was at loggerheads with Siaya Senator James Orengo who was making a
comeback after he lost to his brother-in-law Archbishop Stephen Ondiek
in 2002 elections. Ogallo had vouched for Steve Mwanga. Click
here for the latest political news