NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula will meet MCAs from Western after the coalition postponed the swearing-in of its leader Raila Odinga. A large majority of the MCAs in Western were elected on ANC, Ford Kenya and ODM tickets. The four counties in Western — Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga and Busia — have approved the NASA motion denouncing President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime. NASA on Sunday put on hold plans to swear-in Raila as the people’s ‘President’ and the launch of the People’s Assembly, citing extensive consultation. The ceremony was set to take place yesterday. Wetang’ula said he and Mudavadi will meet all county ward reps to bolster unity of purpose. “Don’t worry about Mudavadi and me, we know what we’re doing. I am asking Luhyas to stand with us in NASA,” he said.  Wetang’ula did not give details of the meeting, only saying what matters is unity of purpose. The Ford Kenya chief said Kenyans have suffered enough at the hands of two communities and that Kenyans will not allow “two people” to take them for a ride. He said a country’s leadership cannot be under two communities for 53 years. Wetang’ula attended the funeral of Michael Wambulwa in Kilimani village, Likuyani. Wambulwa was the father of Likuyani MCA Brian Mafunga. He said Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto will be hounded out of office by the electoral fraud they committed in the August 8 and October 26 elections. The Bungoma Senator said electoral reforms are a must because “doing things the same way expecting different results is stupidity.” He criticised Attorney General Githu Muigai for misinterpreting the law over Raila’s halted swearing-in. “Muigai is junior to me in law. What he was citing as high treason does not exist in our laws. What is low treason then?” he said. “You can strangle Raila, Musalia and Wetang’ula. You can also strangle [Wiper leader] Kalonzo Musyoka, but you cannot strangle the will of the people.” Wetang’ula said the secession debate is prominent in Kenya today more than ever because of the exclusion of the more than 40 tribes by only two. Announcing postponement of Raila’s swearing-in, Musalia said, “We remind the NASA fraternity to maintain our civic and economic resistance.”