Major standoffs loom in Jubilee and NASA over nomination of members to the Parliamentary Service Commission. Wrangles within NASA erupted on the floor of the House yesterday over exclusion of Wiper Party from membership of the commission. NASA has nominated Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay Woman MP), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, while Jubilee has nominated Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Adan Keynan (Eldas), Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruyiot and nominated Senator Beth Mugo. The Star has learnt that there was also discord among Jubilee MPs during a parliamentary meeting presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto at State House, Nairobi. Uhuru and Ruto appealed to members to accept the proposed nominees to the PSC and other committees to avoid a split. Members present in the meeting told the Star the retention of Keynan in the PSC sparked anger, as some MPs wanted fresh blood to represent them in the commission. Keynan and Wanga served as commissioners in the 11th Parliament. “There is no way a member who was in the PSC in the last Parliament can represent us. What did they do for us? They did not fight for members when the SRC took away our privileges,” a second-term Jubilee MP said yesterday. Both NASA and Jubilee legislators have vowed to reject Wanga and Keynan on the floor of the House when the list is presented for approval today. In NASA, Borabu MP Ben Momanyi (Wiper) sparked protests. He said Wiper being a parliamentary party was entitled to one slot. Momanyi said there were no consultations on how the three nominees were picked. He wants the NASA slots shared among its affiliates. “I differ with the list given from our side. We are not agreeable to it as Wiper,” he said, adding there should be equality in sharing the slots. Minority leader John Mbadi and Minority Whip Chris Wamalwa told off Momanyi and maintained there were consultations. Mbadi said the list was agreed on by the top organ of the alliance — the Summit — where the NASA principals sit. He said ODM as per the Standing Orders is entitled to all the three slots, saying the NASA agreement was only to affect the executive had it formed the government. “There were consultations. It’s not an individual decision. The matter can be discussed and resolved internally. I don’t know why there is grandstanding,” Mbadi said.