Two Nyandarua residents have petitioned the county assembly for the removal of the Public Service Board. They say it is incompetent, it disregards the Constitution and is uncommitted to service. Activist and blogger Chege Thiari and former Karau MCA Sammy Kamau
presented the petition to the office of the assembly clerk on Monday. A copy was delivered to Governor Francis Kimemia's office. Petition number 2 of December, 2017, seen by the Star, raises 12 issues. Key among them is that the board has violated the Public Values and Principles Act by failing to maintain accurate minutes. Thiari yesterday said the Act provides for provision to the public of timely and accurate information. On November 24 he wrote to the board seeking information on the criteria used to shortlist chief officers and the minutes, but these were not provided. Board secretary Jack Mbugua, in a letter to Thiari on November 29, said his application was taken through the "indent". He said Thiari's application letter, CV and the advert that called for application,"informed the board. This does not require minutes to decide.The answers are in the documents. You can attest to this when you read the documents again." The petition states that the board has not prepared a report on the
status of promotion of the values and principles of public service. The
law requires the board to submit the report to the governor and the
county assembly by every December 31. The petitioners said some board members have inadequate and questionable
academic qualifications and do not meet the criteria required by law to
serve in such board. Thiari and Kamau said the board has lost the public's confidence due to infighting As at February 28, the petition reads, the board had employed 202
members of staff in various departments, 97 per cent of whom are from
one tribe. The petitioners have asked the assembly to treat the petition as a matter of county importance with utmost urgency.  They urged MCAs to "seek to establish our claims", and recommend to the governor the removal of the PSB.      