Transport CS James Macharia has defended his ministry against accusations that it has continued to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of borrowed funds. Macharia yesterday said all the mega projects rolled out are expensive and the government does not have any money to finance them. “The important thing to note, and what Kenyans must know, is that this is an investment, not a consumer project. There will be massive returns on every shilling invested,” he said at his office. Statistics from the Treasury show the country’s public debt stands at Sh4.04 trillion as at March — an equivalent of 52.6 per cent of the GDP — with most of the funds going to infrastructure. The 480km Nairobi-Mombasa standard gauge railway launched on May 31 was constructed at a cost of Sh327 billion. The Exim Bank of China contributed a loan of Sh294.3 billion, which was 90 per cent of the project cost. The Kenyan government contributed Sh32.7 billion, 10 per cent of the cost of the project. Macharia said with the completion of the SGR, the country’s GDP will be improved by about 1.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent. “This means it will pay for itself. We just did the mathematics of SGR and confirmed that if the SGR carries about five million tonnes of cargo, then it will break even. The total cargo coming to Mombasa right now is 28 million tonnes every year, meaning the SGR will have a considerable headroom to make a profit,” he said. Already, the second phase of the SGR has been launched and is set to be completed by June 2019. The second phase is set to cost Sh155.5 billion, with funds from the Exim Bank of China. Macharia said the money will be returned to the exchequer and as such, Kenyans should see it as a positive investment. The CS said mega projects need the country to negotiate for proper funding that is affordable. “The other problem is land, because roads and railways require land and acquisition is a problem. We have had issues to do with compensating people for land from Mombasa to Nairobi. The total cost of land compensation was about Sh25 billion, this is land alone before you do anything else,” he said. The CS added that the cost eats into the package for financing. In November, the Kenya National Highways Authority signed a contract of Sh62 billion with the South Africa-based Company Five Group Construction Proprietary Limited for the construction of the Lamu-Garissa-Isiolo Road, a component of the Lapsset project.