Four suspects charged with stealing Sh52 million from KCB’s Thika branch face fresh charges. Helford Munene, Julius Ndung’u, Charles Mwangi and Shem Karani were yesterday charged with being in possession of stolen property.Appearing before Thika chief magistrate Theresa Murigi, the accused were charged with being in possession of 200 identity cards, 200 Orange SIM cards, 1,239 MTN SIM cards and seven CPUs suspected to be stolen property. Karani was charged with possessing three identity cards also suspected to have been stolen. He was with them in Mtwapa, Mombasa, where he was arrested. The accused have, however, denied the charges. They were freed on Sh4 million bond with two sureties of similar amount each. However, they have failed to raise the bond and are still in police custody. Lawyer Waithera Mwangi representing the first three accused applied for a review of the bond terms. She said her clients come from humble backgrounds and cannot raise the amount.  Waithera said her clients are not a flight risk, since two of them are married and are caring for their young families. The third is engaged. “They are innocent until proven guilty. They are ready to abide by the court’s directives. My plea is for the court to review their bond,” Waithera said. Defence counsel also requested the court to order the prosecution to furnish her with copies of the charge sheets, witness statements and exhibits to be used in the case to help her adequately prepare for the case. However, state counsel Stella Oyagi opposed the bail terms review application, saying investigations are likely to unearth more crimes. She told the court after the 200 identity cards were found, the owners are likely to become potential witnesses. “If released on bond the accused who might interfere with investigations. We fear they might commit similar offences,” Oyagi said. The four were charged with breaking into KCB Thika branch through an underground tunnel and stealing Sh52, 650,000. 95 between November 18 and 20. The case was adjourned to December 20 when the pre-bail report will be tabled in court.