The death of Grace Mboja, commonly referred to as Mama ODM, is being associated with the party she loved most, Orange Democratic Movement. Mboja died on Thursday at the Coast General Hospital where she had been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit following a stroke. She was buried on Friday at the Mtwapa Muslim cemetery. Critics are associating the death of Mboja, and two other ODM reps from Kilifi county, to frustrations in the party. She served as the ODM women congress chairperson until she ditched the party in 2017 and joined Jubilee.She was also a member of the ODM national executive council. Former Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto, a confidant to Mboja, on Friday said Mboja’s sickness and that of former Shimo la Tewa MCA Bakari Ali and ODM Kilifi chief campaigner Kingi Ngombo, have a direct connection to how they were mistreated in ODM. Ali collapsed in a bus while travelling to Nairobi to register to vie as an independent candidate after he was allegedly rigged out of the ODM nominations. Family members said Ali was depressed after missing the party ticket. During his burial, security had to be strengthened following a plan by youths to block Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi from attending the burial for allegedly having a hand in the rigging. “Mboja was mistreated in ODM and she was very bitter about it. She vigorously campaigned for the party but got nothing. I took her as my personal assistant in my office but the Kilifi county government refused to give her an appointment letter,” Kamto said. “She worked for one year without being paid a single cent. It was a case of use and dump in ODM and that is what hurt Mboja. She had to decamp to Jubilee because she was being mistreated in the party she served so diligently.”  Ngombo, a close ally of governor Kingi, had high hope of getting a nomination for his devotion to the party. During the campaigns, Ngombo had a fall out with Kingi. He was admitted to a Malindi hospital towards the end of the August 8 election campaigns. He died three weeks ago after suffering stroke. Ngombo served as the Malindi county council chairman but did not vie for any seat in 2013. He was rewarded by getting a nomination in the Kilifi county assembly. The crowd puller for his mastery of the Giriama language expected a similar reward in 2017, but his name was expunged from the list of nominees to the Kilifi county assembly at the last minute. Former Kilifi county council chairman Anthony Kingi said the turn of events took a toll on Ngombo’s health. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya dismissed the claims and said the deaths should not be associated with the party.  “Mboja went to Jubilee and expected a nomination though I had warned her that Jubilee would get her nothing. If we could connect her death to politics then I would say its Jubilee because that’s where she served last. For Ngombo, he was admitted twice with stroke when he was an MCA so claiming that he died after being frustrated in ODM is not true,” said Baya. He added, “She is the one who gave me my life member certificate. She organised for my one-on-one meeting with opposition chief Raila Odinga, so I respect her. She gambled and failed.”