For many years, at least up until I cleared high school, I had this deep seated belief that Boxing Day had something to do with the sport of boxing. It wasn’t until my early college days in the turn of the new millennium that I discovered the actual meaning in the course of research work for a thesis. Several historical theories on the root of the day abound but they all point to the fact that the day originated from ancient Britain.  Boxing Day is to date observed as a holiday in the UK, Ireland, Canada, Australia and Zealand. It is dedicated to activities such as visiting friends, watching soccer, shopping and watching cricket.  Boxing Day origin  Britain is one of the countries in the world where slave trade was widely practiced as early as the 16th century.  Workers and slaves were brought from dominions, colonies, protectorates and other territories under the British Empire to work in settlements. According to estimates based on records of voyages made by British merchants, at least 12 million Africans were transported during the infamous Transatlantic Slave Trade to British administered colonies in Europe.  Now, on December 25, which is Christmas day, masters would place money, small gifts and leftovers from Christmas dinner in gift boxes known as Christmas boxes. The following day, they would hand over the boxes to their household workers, who were required to work on Christmas day, as a token of appreciation for good service over the year. December 26 was traditionally a day off for servants and it was the day they received the Christmas boxes. It was also a day they were allowed to take the boxes to their families – on Boxing Day. Sealed boxes  A different theory has it that sealed boxes containing money would be placed in ships for good luck before they set sail. The boxes would then be opened by a priest on Christmas day and its contents shared amongst the poor if the ships docked back safely. Another popular account claims alms boxes would be placed inside churches during Advent and opened on Boxing Day for distribution to the poor.  The culture has since changed in modern Christianity and most churches observe alms-giving prior to Christmas Day.  Another theory claimed, albeit sarcastically, that Britons and Irelanders were just greedy people who created an extra holiday to clear Christmas leftovers. Opening gifts  However, in the modern world, Boxing Day is primarily associated with the opening of gifts shared on Christmas Day. Majority of businesses, including those in Kenya, have also adopted Boxing Day as the perfect occasion to offload dead stock by giving crazy offers to customers. However, in Ireland, Boxing Day has been given a spiritual connotation and the day is also known as “St. Stephen’s Day”. It is held in commemoration of Saint Stephen who was stoned to death for refusing to denounce Jesus Christ. Have a lovely Boxing Day.  Click here for the latest political news