Mombasa nurses plan to go on strike on Monday — Christmas Day — over unpaid salaries from June. They have notified the county government, which had promised to act by tomorrow. Some nurses have been paid, but three-quarters have yet to get their salaries, their union said. All of them will, however, stay away from work in a show of solidarity. The nurses said they face difficulties meeting their needs because they have no money. They have outstanding bills and cannot afford daily fares to their workstations, they said. Efforts to get Health CEC Hazel Koitaba’s comments were unsuccessful. The caregivers want Governor Hassan Joho’s administration to clear with them or services in all public hospitals will be disrupted. Kenya National Union of Nurses’ branch secretary general Peter Maroko said residents would have to seek services from private health facilities. “Come Monday, if there are no salaries, there will be no nursing services,” he told the press outside the Kenya Medical Training College in Mombasa. Maroko said they met with county officials, who urged them to be patient and promised to pay the November and December cash by tomorrow. Mombasa is in a financial crisis and the union says the county might fail to deliver on its promise. “The county government talked to us and said they would pay our two months’ salaries for November and December by December 22,” he said. It would not be the first time nurses are given unfulfilled promises, Maroko said. He said they also face reprisals over the four-month period they struck countywide. Maroko said they have also been denied their annual leave. “Our nurses are supposed to take annual leave. We have been blocked to apply for leave because we had a nurses’ strike that lasted for four months,” Maroko said The nurses’ four-month strike was devastating. Most public hospitals could not admit patients or offer outpatient services. Across the country, patients suffered, especially those who could not afford costly services offered by private facilities. In some counties, certain programmes such as immunisation suffered. There were no medics to administer essential vaccines. Some people also succumbed to their injuries or diseases after the prolonged absence of healthcare support. As the feuds over CBA implementation took a heavy toll and the strike persisted, some county administrations sacked their nurses.