Fifty three per cent of Kenyan youths are unemployed, a new survey has found. The research by Trends and Insights For Africa indicates only 41 per cent of the youth are employed while six per cent are self-employed. Of the unemployed, 94 per cent are actively looking for jobs while six per cent are passive. For the report launched on Monday, 1,078 job seekers were randomly sampled and interviewed between September 12 and 18. Data was collected through online surveys. The report reveals that over two thirds of the total sample -  77 per cent - are aged 18 to 34 while 89 per cent have tertiary education, an indication that they may be looking for white collar jobs. But TIFA noted challenges in Kenya's job market such as layoffs in sectors such as the media, IT, NGO business, insurance and banking. "Several companies listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange have issued a profit warnings in 2017," the report stated. It further noted slow economic growth, unrest over elections, automation, high costs of doing business and inflation. Related: Tackling youth Unemployment Also read: Years of growth have not muted Kenya's unemployment Job search tools The study found that online platforms (65 per cent) are most popular when it comes to looking for jobs. Then came word of mouth (14 per cent), newspapers (12 per cent), recruitment agencies (nine per cent) and radio advertisements (one per cent). Among online platforms, job sites topped with 60 per cent popularity while LinkedIn was second with 23 per cent and social media - primarily Facebook and Twitter - was third with a rating of 17 per cent. "Traditional job advertising platforms are not considered a key source of information on jobs," TIFA said. "Online job sites are the most popular with 60 per cent mentions followed by LinkedIn at 23 per cent mentions." At the top of the list of what matters most to job seekers were remuneration and benefits, career progression, conducive work environment and job security, in that order. These four factors, the report says, also matter more for employees’ happiness and retention. About 85 per cent of those seeking jobs ask for good pay and benefits first, compared to 70 per cent of those employed who make inquiries afterwards. Among strategies for finding jobs, networking, increasing number of applications and making CVs stand were the top three. For the unemployed, these strategies were rated at 71 per cent, 66 per cent and 50 per cent respectively.advancing education (34 per cent), acquiring multiple skills (33 per cent), talking to friends (47 per cent), praying and fasting (35 per cent), volunteering (32 per cent), random visits to companies (12 per cent) and internships (34 per cent). While 90 per cent of employed youth spend time networking, 86 per cent of the unemployed hope networking will present them with more opportunities. Click here for the latest political stories