It has been a good year for women, youth and persons with disability, who got more than Sh11 billion to start and manage their business enterprises.   The government, through various funds, disbursed billions to boost income generating opportunities for the vulnerable groups and youth. Sh5.5 billion was disbursed to 61,675 groups through the Uwezo Fund. The money reached 920,162 individuals. Another Sh302 million revolved among 444,358 individuals in 89 constituencies. The groups underwent a one-week training on the prudent use of funds. Some 45 youths also benefited from internship programs across the country. The National Government Affirmative Action Fund disbursed Sh5.1 billion to the counties to support various projects. The projects included bursaries to children, civic education, women economic empowerment and value addition initiatives. On December 19, the cumulative funding countrywide stood at Sh11, 673,785,350. The amount was disbursed to 80,954 groups comprising of 1,438,853 beneficiaries. The loan repayment rate stood at 94 per cent. In terms of capacity building, 873,249 women underwent training to empower them both socially and economically. The 30 per cent Government Procurement Opportunities also saw 293 women, youth and persons with disability win tenders worth Sh47 million. The fund also supported women entrepreneurs to exhibit their goods in various ASK shows, regional trade fairs and other exhibitions and forums. A total of 2,533 women were facilitated to attend various forums across the country.  However, challenges still remain. Delays in disbursements, bureaucracy, high cost of loan administration, competition with commercial bank products, poor dissemination of information and limited business monitoring affected the effectiveness of the programmes. Borrowers also faced high competition, lack of business knowledge and misconception about fund. Some were also forced to divert the money to other household needs. The government has also launched a Sh250 million sacco fund that will lend money to women. It will be implemented through the Women Enterprise Fund. Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs CS Sicily Kariuki luanched the fund during an Affirmative Funds Cheque issuance event in Machakos on December 22. "The fund will be released to women financial intermediary partners to ensure it reaches more people and increase the speed and absorption rate of the fund," Kariuki said. She urged women groups to join saccos. Some seven groups have already joined. Individual women groups can only borrow up to a maximum of Sh750,000. If in a sacco, they can get loans of up to Sh5 milliion. The saccos provide affordable credit to women in small and medium businesses. The fund is channeled through the Women Enterprise Fund. "We want to bring together women from all over the country with the aim of helping them to become financially secure to properly support their families,” Kariuki said. The Youth Enterprise Development Fund also disbursed Sh11.9 billion to 904,830 youths across the country. Out of this, 95,707 youth have been supported with affordable loans amounting to Sh1.2 billion, to start new enterprises and expand their businesses. Another 1,155 youth were supported with LPO loans to supply contracts, worth Sh262 million, secured under the AGPO initiative. Over the same period, 96,862 youth also benefitted from direct loan products amounting to Sh1.5 billion. Some 395,799 youth were also reached through financial intermediaries, who disbursed Sh3.6 billion. In the National Youth Service, an empowerment programme to support the youth has seen 300 saccos registered, with a cumulative savings of Sh1.4 billion. Other achievements were the Sh5.9 billion generated from reduced wages, the Sh1.4 billion accrued from savings and the Sh365 million earned by about 5,000 women in Huduma kitchens. Some 23,325 youths were also trained in various skills. The opening of another 45 Huduma Centres in 41 counties also improved service delivery to many Kenyans. Currently, there are 66 government services offered at the centers. The most sought after include registration of births, issuance of duplicate identity cards, NHIF services and KRA services among others. More than 12 million customers were served in various Huduma Centers with Sh12 billion collected through the services offered. The Huduma Kenya program was this year honoured by the African Association for Public Administration and Management for improving services offered to citizens. Kariuki received the award which was won in Morocco. The Huduma Mashinani initiative came second to a program from Rwanda for Improving Access to Public Service.        