The 53rd Madaraka Day on December 12, widely
mistakenly labeled as the 54th in the media and even in President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s Address to the Nation, was in many ways a Republic Day like
none other over the past five decades.  The first Madaraka Day was marked on December 12 1964. Add
53 years and you get 2017. The 54th Jamhuri is in 2018, a year down
the road.
 The first Jamhuri was the day Prime Minister Jomo Kenyatta,
aged 74, became the first President of the Republic, the Jamhuri.
 President Uhuru’s speech was remarkable in a number of ways
and it covered themes that are going to mark his second and final term in
office and colour his increasingly much-talked-about legacy.
 He opened his speech much the same way his father President
Kenyatta used to open his early prime ministerial and presidential addresses, by
explaining what the four colours of the national flag mean.
 And then he came to the question of national unity: “As your
4th President, I will not tire of reminding you that we will have a 5th, and
even a 10th President. But we will not have a second, third or fourth Kenya.
Preserving Kenya is preserving yourself because Kenya is you, and you are
Kenya.”
 President Uhuru knew well that he was addressing a Kenya
that is more divided than ever before. The previous day National Super Alliance
leader Raila Odinga had withdrawn his pledge to be sworn in as the “People’s
President” by a convention of the “People’s Assembly” at an unidentified venue.
 Only when the withdrawal was made public did it turn out to
be the venue would have been the Mombasa County Assembly presided over by
Governor Hassan Joho, an outspoken political foe of the President’s.
 Raila had promised his followers something else – once he
was sworn in he would move to State House. State House Mombasa would have been
a turbulent scene on Madaraka Day if Raila had made good on his promise.
 It would have been the beginning of the secessionist agenda
preached by the former Prime Minister’s foremost strategists Salim Lone and Dr
David Ndii on the basis of Article 1 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which
proclaims, “All sovereign power belongs to the people of Kenya and shall be
exercised only in accordance with this Constitution.
 The people may exercise their sovereign power either directly
or through their democratically elected representatives. Sovereign power under this Constitution is delegated to the
following State organs, which shall perform their functions in accordance with
this Constitution – Parliament and the legislative assemblies in the county
governments; the national executive and the executive structures in the
county governments; and the Judiciary and independent tribunals. The sovereign power of the people is exercised at (a) the
national level; and (b) the county level. This Constitution is the supreme law of the Republic and
binds all persons and all State organs at both levels of government. No person may claim or exercise State authority except as
authorised under this Constitution. The validity or legality of this Constitution is not subject
to challenge by or before any court or other State organ.” NASA is conveniently ignoring the adjective EITHER when it
comes to the question of the people’s sovereignty in the Constitution as well
as the fact that elected leaders are in place after the August 8   General Election and the presidential
election rerun ordered by the Supreme Court and held on October 26. The
alliance makes sovereignty sound like so many rocks strewn all over the place
that anyone can pick up and throw at the incumbent administration. But the Constitution proclaims, “No person may claim or
exercise State authority except as authorised under this Constitution.” Could anything be clearer? And yet the NASA leaders say they are in a retreat this
weekend to rethink the swearing-in strategy and how to push through with it. The first swearing-in strategy was withdrawn under
tremendous and far-flung pressure, including, as the Star reported, from US
Ambassador Robert Godec and Raila’s wife Ida, who exclaimed someone else should
be sworn in, “not my husband!” The most intense pressure came from Attorney General Githu
Muigai, who told Raila the consequences of his swearing-in meant he would be
put to death. President Uhuru’s remark that there will be many other Presidents
of Kenya after him but there would be only one Kenya in perpetuity sent a clear
signal to the organisers of so-called people’s assemblies and purveyors of the
secession agenda who think sovereignty is a rock lying on the ground waiting
for anyone to turn it into a missile.  President Uhuru’s response to the secessionist
agenda could be put in Marcus Tullius Cicero (106 BC – 7 43 BC) the
Roman politician and lawyer, who served as consul in the year 63 BC, “Silus populi suprema lex esto (“The highest law should be preservation of the people”).  It will be an interesting second and final term.      