Kenya has been declared Guinea Worm-free, but the official certification will not be made until February.  The World Health Organisation team that inspected Kenya said they found no evidence of transmission in the last three years. The team said there was adequate surveillance and follow-up on rumours of the disease. But Kenya will have to wait for the team to present its recommendations to the International Commission for the Certification of Dracunculiasis [Guinea Worm] Eradication to make decision whether to issue the formal certification in February.  Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko assured the team of the government's commitment to the eradication of the disease, saying they will maintain good practices in surveillance, community education, reporting and universal access to safe drinking water.  “As we approach certification to a GW-free country, we recognise the need to be vigilant and acknowledge your recommendations for strengthening our health system,” Kioko said. Read : WHO to certify Kenya as a Guinea worm-free country – official The WHO evaluation team was led by ICT chair Joel Breman.  It was invited to Kenya in August to assess the country ahead of the certification.  The team visited 21 counties, including Turkana, West Pokot and Trans Nzoi which were endemic. They also visited 88 health facilities, 159 communities and 1691 individuals.  Deputy head of the team Ashok Kumar said they had found great awareness about the disease among the communities. The evaluation shows national knowledge of the disease at about 60 per cent. It was 100 per cent in the former endemic counties. Knowledge about Sh100,000 cash reward for spotting the disease stood at 88 per cent nationally, and 97 per cent in Turkana, West Pokot and Trans Nzoia. The criteria used to evaluate the country included Guinea Worm endemicity, surveillance, investigation of recent disease rumours, cross-border considerations with endemic or formerly endemic countries and unsafe drinking water.  Kenya interrupted indigenous GW transmission in 1994 after the last case was contained. Several imported cases from South Sudan, which lasted up to 2005, were also contained.  The team cautioned that the country needed to remain vigilant and sustain its status through continued surveillance, community awareness and recording to check out any potential imports from bordering states.  Neighbouring South Sudan and Ethiopia remain endemic to the disease. “We have found several strengths and some gaps. Some of the most positive things we have noted include surveillance of GW disease and other diseases,” Breman had earlier said.  WHO Kenya Representative Rudi Eggers said there were gaps, including the need to invest in surveillance and safe drinking water, that needed attention. “Should Kenya be declared Guinea Worm free after this evaluation, it will have been a historical and significant public health milestone, in the world, the second disease declared eradicated in Kenya after small pox,” Eggers said. Click here for the latest political news 