Governors want most of the Sh38 billion Kenya received from the Global Fund last week to fight HIV-Aids, TB and malaria.  Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said the grant belongs to the counties because health is devolved. He said that moving forward, donors must realise the health sector has changed and they must respect the Constitution and the new system of sending money to the counties.  “Whereas in the past the implementation of Global Fund activities was largely undertaken by the national government’s disease programmes, the paradigm shift occasioned by devolution has made it mandatory for the funds to flow to the county governments,” Nanok said.  This is the first grant from the Geneva-based agency since health services were devolved. In the past, the funds were managed by the Health ministry through state agencies such as the National Aids Control Council and the National Aids and STI Control Programme.  Of the current grant to Kenya, the government will control only Sh27.2 billion, which governors now want. The Kenya Red Cross Society will get Sh7.3 billion and Amref will get Sh4.3 billion. Nanok said there already exists a proper system for sending the money to the counties.  “This funds-flow mechanism has been and will continue to be adopted in all other financing arrangements dealing with county functions,” he said in a speech read on his behalf by head of CoG’s Legal department Rosemary Njaramba, during the signing ceremony at the Treasury on Friday.  The bulk of the money will buy medicine, equipment such as test kits and reagents until 2021. Health CS Cleopa Mailu has not responded to the demands. He is in Japan for the Universal Health Coverage Summit. But the Nairobi-based Institute of Public Finance has supported the governors’ call.  “Other donors like the DFID [UK Department for International Development] already work directly with the counties. The Health ministry should ensure county governments are fully involved in implementation of Global Fund projects,” James Muraguri, the IPF-Kenya CEO, said.  Global Fund mobilises 95 per cent of funds from donor governments and sends it to developing countries to fight HIV-Aids, TB and malaria.  Kenya committed to match the current Global Fund grant with a Sh76.7 billion domestic allocation.  Head of the Global Fund’s High Impact Africa Department Linden Morrison said, “Kenya is an excellent example of partnership at work. It was inspiring to see how the country designed the grants by conducting a successful country dialogue.”