Ahadi Kenya Trust has promised quarry workers in Murang'a county 30 bulls as a Christmas gift. COE Stanley Kamau said he has identified a quarry in each county where he will donate one bull so the workers can celebrate Christmas with their families. He disclosed the plan when he donated the first bull at Kiamunyaga quarry in Kiharu constituency, Murang'a county on Saturday. Kamau said he realised manual workers are normally forgotten when other groups of disadvantaged people are being empowered. He said quarry workers have one of the hardest and most strenuous jobs yet they earn meagre salaries. "Despite working so hard, these people are unable to engage in the festivities because of their meagre earnings. They have remained unforgotten for a long time." The philanthropist said most well-wishers concentrate on the sick, orphans and women, and forget manual workers who barely raise enough money to support their families. "Christ died for all so am asking those with the willingness to give to start focusing on other less empowered groups of people to help them experience the spirit of Christmas," he added. Kamau said most people who build houses do not consider the hustle the quarry workers go through every day to provide building materials. He said such manual workers form the backbone of the economy as they produce materials used in all manner of construction, including roads. He noted that there should be development programmes aimed at empowering them and helping them to live better lives. Kamau asked the government to consider registering all quarry workers countrywide and establishing a medical cover to help them nurse the injuries they suffer in their line of duty. "These people suffer numerous injuries after falling in the quarries and when rocks unexpectedly fall on them and they are unable to pay for their medical expenses," he added. He challenged those talking about empowering the boychild to start by uplifting such men who are working tirelessly to make ends meet. He said this while donating a bull and four bales of flour to over 300 Kiamunyaga quarry workers. The quarry worker's chairman Joseph Kimani expressed gratitude for the donations saying they have not seen such kindness before. Kimani said one of the main challenges they face is harassment by police officers for using explosives. He also urged the county government to rehabilitate feeder roads leading to the quarry saying their poor state affect their business during rainy seasons. Read: First Lady, Sonko celebrate early Christmas with orphans at City Hall Click here for the latest political news    