One of the world’s best known cruise ships, MS Silver Spirit, made its maiden voyage to the Port of Mombasa yesterday. It had 472 tourists on board and 365 crew members from Bahamas. This is the third cruise ship to dock at the port since September. MS Silver Spirit is the largest ship in a fleet operated by Silversea Cruises, which is a privately-owned luxury cruise line base in Nasau, Bahamas. Several guests who arrived at the port said they are happy to be in Kenya. “We are happy to be back in Kenya. The last time we were here was in 1965,” said a couple from the United Kingdom after alighting from the ship. They said they are eager to tour some areas they visited in 1965. “We want to see Old Town, the ferry, Fort Jesus and all other exciting places in Mombasa,” they said, before dashing to their waiting bus. Speaking at the port when he welcomed the guests, Mombasa Tourism executive Fawz Rashid said they are happy to receive the tourists. “This is a sign of tourists’ confidence in Mombasa,” Rashid said. Kenya Tourism Board CEO Dr Betty Radier, who was not present but sent a statement, said Kenya’s cruise ship tourism is making significant growth. “The arrival of MS Silver Spirit marks another milestone in Kenya’s profile as a cruise ship destination. Indeed, this is in accordance with the country’s stated aspiration of being a preferred long-haul destination in Africa for high-spending tourists,” she said. On October 6, the Omani super yacht christened Fulk Al Salamah (ship of peace), the world’s newest yacht, and set sail from Oman for an East Africa voyage with over 350 passengers on board. Kenya Ports Authority senior corporate communication officer Hajj Masemo said the construction of a modern cruise terminal is expected to be completed by March next year. “We had a few financial challenges, but we are now moving swiftly. We expect construction work will be complete by March 2018,” he said. KPA said the Sh450 million cruise ship terminal will be world-class. It will allow simultaneous berthing of two Oasis class cruise ship - the world’s largest passenger ships. Masemo said the new terminal will have modern security features, an immigration centre, a hotel and accommodation facilitied and other social amenities.