Wiper is considering having former Kitui Governor Julius Malombe drop his election petition against current county chief Charity Ngilu. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana on Thursday indicated that Malombe would be prevailed upon. Malombe challenged Ngilu’s August 8 victory, saying the election was marred by irregularities.  On December 13, he told the High Court in Nairobi that the election was neither fair nor credible and that it was mired in violence and voter bribery, claims that were dismissed by Ngilu’s lawyer Kioko Kilukumi. Malombe said some of his agents were not allowed into polling stations. But Kibwana, the Wiper party chairman and a Malombe ally, apparently feels the case lacks merit. “As a former law professor, I perused the petition documents and realised it would be prudent for Malombe, who is my close friend, to withdraw the case,” Kibwana said.  He said elders will  be dispatched  to the former Kitui boss to impress this upon him. “Elders will be detailed to ask him to withdraw the petition,” he said. Kibwana, a law scholar who  spent years teaching at the University  of Nairobi, spoke at the home of former Kitui West MP  Francis Nyenze in Kyondoni village. He had accompanied Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who was visiting to condole with the family. Kalonzo was away in Germany, attending to his ailing wife Pauline, when Nyenze died on December 6. The legislator was buried on December 19. Kibwana was reacting to a request  by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, who had asked Wiper to talk Malombe out of the petition.  Malombe ran on the Wiper party ticket, while Ngilu flew the Narc flag. Ngilu said it would be a welcome move if Malombe heeded the call to withdraw the case. “We’ve established there is a certain individual behind Malombe’s petition. We’ll one of these good days publicly name that person,” she said. Ngilu expressed confidence that she will beat Malombe even if a repeat election is ordered. “By the look of things, Malombe will get far much less votes than he managed if we went back to the polls,” she said. Kalonzo, who spoke last, said the  issue required a  local  solution. He added, however, that he did not wish to personally delve into it. The petition is being heard at the Milimani courts, Nairobi, by Justice Pauline Nyamwea.