The ability of NASA MCAs, who are the minority in the assembly, to play effective opposition roles and put Governor Mike Sonko's administration on toes have been put to question. The MCAs have been accused of supporting the governor and wining and dining with their Jubilee counterparts. None of them has sponsored a motion or a bill to address the problems the residents face or stood on the floor to question the government's operations. Out of the 28 motions that the House has passed, none has been sponsored by a NASA member. 25 of them are touching on the operations of the assembly such as the formation of committees, while three which sought to address the problems facing residents . Though the Standing Orders requires that Majority leader and Majority chief whip to move most of the procedural motions, it was expected that NASA members would bring private motions and bills to compel Sonko's administration to address various issues. Speaker Beatrice Elachi adjourned the house severally due to lack of business. The opposition ward representatives did not criticise the list of the Sonko's nominees for county executive positions despite weaknesses exhibited by some of them during vetting. The report by the assembly's Appointments Committee on the performance of the candidates during vetting did not have any dissenting opinion despite the committee having four NASA MCAs. Jubilee is the majority wing with 65 members against NASA's 58. Karen MCA David Mberia, admitted NASA leadership in the house has gone to bed with Jubilee, though said it was too early to judge. “I have told the minority leader that we are no longer in government, that we should concentrate on criticizing this administration, but he says it is too early to do that. He does not understand,” Mberia said. “We cannot criticize the government that is not there,” Peter Imwatok, minority chief whip, said. He argued that Sonko has not fully constituted his government, thus making it hard for them to play an oversight role. “Nothing has happened since we took over. Members have requested for statements from the executive but there are no answers because the government is incomplete,” he said. “I can assure you, we might be less compared to Jubilee but we have tyranny of brains and minds. We are up-to the task,” he added. Sonko's CECs were sworn in last month and it was expected the city boss would nominate chief officers soon after. He has however not unveiled the list. The chief officers are equivalent of the Principal Secretaries in the National Government. They are the chief accounting officers in their departments. We could not reach Minority leader Elias Otieno for comment as his phone was switched off. The MCAs are on a long Christmas recess until February.