When some Kenyans say Uhuru Kenyatta is “their President”, it is to the
detriment of his presidency. A President is elected to serve all Kenyans. By
owning the President at the exclusion of others, those people make him smaller
by the same numbers they exclude from him.  As Uhuru has himself said, he is a President of all Kenyans, whom
he should serve equally, whether they voted for him or not, Jubilee Party or
not and whether they belong to his community or don’t.  But efforts to keep as many people as possible from the President are a
symptom of the disease of bad leadership that Kenyans suffer from. All leaders
in Kenya suffer from this disease, according to which, leadership has only one
meaning and purpose of getting as rich as possible, as soon as possible and by
whatever means necessary.  When leaders are in power, it is their belief that, the only reason
they are in power is to eat at the exclusion of other people. On account of
this logic, it is the turn of those in power to eat and get rich. It is also
the turn of ethnic elites who are in power to eat and get rich.  In furtherance of this logic, if you are not eating, it is because you
are not in power. To eat, you should wait to get power. Hence the cutthroat
struggle for power and presidency that we are today
witnessing in Kenya and many parts of Africa.  If people must get and exercise power to eat, all is fair to get power
and wealth to eat. To get wealth and eat, people will resort to whatever means,
including stealing, plundering, looting, robbing and grabbing whatever is
available, unclaimed and unprotected by power.   In this respect, therefore, those who believe it is their turn to eat
also believe it is their turn to steal and plunder in shameless thievery,
corruption and graft. In countries where ethnic and communities believe it is
their turn to eat, people take stealing and corruption as natural means of
acquiring wealth and food to eat. In the circumstances, expecting Kenyan
leaders to end corruption is looking for the impossible.
 When leaders get power, it is their turn to eat — the mother philosophy
or ideology in Kenya. To eat, corrupt and thieving majorities need unchecked
power to control and dominate those from whom they will rob. But to dominate
and exploit, ruling elites acquire dictatorships which give them power to rob
and kill with complete impunity, freedom and abandon. To prepare Kenyans for
this, leaders we have been calling for dictatorship as something necessary for
development, stability, peace and tranquility.  With dictatorship, ethnic and class ruling elites transform societies
into jungles, where they are the lions, leopards, jackals and tigers that feed
on grass eating sheep, buffaloes, giraffes, deer, warthogs and even elephants
whose herbivorous strength and huge numbers cannot stand carnivorous
dictatorship however outnumbered.   As in the jungle, where poor herbivores are in the millions, while
carnivorous tyrants are few, carnivores overcome their numerical weaknesses by
keeping herbivores divided and vulnerable.  Exploitative ruling elites manage
the poor of their societies by dividing the poor and weak into tribes and clans
that are antagonised and kept too busy quarrelling, fighting and killing one
another that they have no time to unite and protect themselves from attacks by
ruling, ethnic and class elites.
  Though we all know how dangerous negative ethnicity is, ruling elites
cannot dominate and exploit the poor without it. Nor can elites from big and
strong ethnic communities dominate and exploit weak and small communities
without the help of negative ethnicity whose ethnic hate keeps all communities,
big and small, fighting to the benefit of ethnic elites from all ethnic
elites. 
 But if negative ethnicity fails to keep communities fighting and
pliable to exploitation, secession becomes an easy refuge. Nevertheless,
secession breeds mutations of bad leadership, clannism, dictatorship and
negative ethnicity that secessionists may preach against but end up compounding
rather than resolving our never-ending problems.   