Kenya Cup debutants Resolution Kisii RFC earned their first point despite losing 21-27 against Menengai Cream Homeboyz in a pulsating match at Gusii Stadium over the weekend. A much improved Kisii side earned the point after the losing the game by less than seven points. Homeboyz scored their tries through Thomas Okidia, Israel Soi, William Diffu, Leonard Mugaisi and Kerin Odemi with Mohammed Omollo converting one. Brian Mokua scored two tries while Michael Juma added the third. Aggrey Kennedy converted all the tries for the debutants. “We lost this game due to inexperience but I’m happy with the improvement of the players in several areas. At one point we were leading 14-12 with less than 10 minutes remaining, it shows that there is a lot of potential and passion,” said Kisii coach Nick Abok. “We must improve on our discipline and scrums in our next game (against Impala next month). Our dream of remaining in Kenya Cup is achievable.” His Homeboyz counterpart, Paul Murunga, said: “I must admit we underrated Kisii but it is a good lesson for us not to under estimate any team. Kisii were hungry for their first win but unfortunately they didn’t turn up in the second half.” Murunga added that his charges are firmly in the race for the playoff having recorded four wins with a bonus point. Homeboyz maintained their second place with 20 points, same as log leaders and defending champions KCB, whobeat Top Fry Nakuru 27-12 at Nakuru Athletics Club. The champions raced into a 10-0 lead at halftime thanks to Darwin Mukidza’s penalty while Nick Ongeri scored a try, which Mukidza converted. Charles Odhiambo reduced the deficit but Jacob Ojee extended KCB’s lead when he landed past the whitewash as Mukidza converted. Rocky Aguko and Ongeri added tries while Don Oluoch landed a try which was converted by Henry Ayah for Nakuru. At the Mombasa Sports Club, Kabras Sugar thrashed  Regional Logistics CFS Mombasa to a 77-3 to record the highest score so far this season. Resolution Impala Saracens defeated 17-12 Nondescripts while Strathmore Leos recorded their first win of the season with a 28-17 against Mwamba, who remain winless. SportPesa Quins beat Blak Blad 48-20 at the RFUEA Ground.