Businessman Benson Kathai, who has accused Gospel star Bahati of conning him of Sh200,000, is a frustrated man. Three months after reporting the offence to the police at Karuri police station, the matter has not been dealt with. This led Benson and his lawyers to write to the Director of Public Prosecutions. According to a letter from Kago Muthama and Company, the businessman's efforts to get justice have been frustrated, and he sought to know why. The letter was received by the DPP's office on December 13, with regards to the case recorded in the Occurrence Book on October 28 at Karuri police station. It read: "Our client reported that he had been defrauded off his Kenya Shillings Two Hundred Thousand (KShs. 200,000/=) by one Kevin Bahati Kioko, a person well known to the complainant, under false pretence that he would get a premise in which they would both operate a business (contents in the said entry). Despite our client having recorded statements thereof and all other relevant witnesses having done the same, the complainant feels that he has not been handled professionally his numerous visits and calls notwithstanding." The letter continued, "This letter is to therefore request your good offices to intervene and call for the said file with a view to establish the exact position and why justice seems not to be seen to be done." The DPP is yet to respond. Meanwhile, Benson and his lawyers also went to court and sought protection from the OCS of Karuri police station. According to court documents dated December 6, Benson sought protection against arrest because he believed the OCS  "might arrest him anytime, thereby curtailing his freedom". Also, the same document adds that Bahati went to Karuri police station on December 2 and reported that his life was threatened by Benson. This resulted in the OCS, "with various police officers under him, calling Benson, threatening him with arrest". The OCS received the same document on December 7. An order signed by Kiambu principal magistrate J Kituku states that the OCS of Karuri police station cannot arrest or harrass Benson, as long as he cooperates with the investigation. Also, come January 11 next year, Bahati will be in court to answer charges of obtaining money under fraudulent means.