The Kenya Revenue Authority could be losing in excess of Sh33 billion annually owing to tax exemptions, incentives and breaks awarded to different sector players in the economy. According to the just-released Kenya Economic Update by the World Bank, KRA could potentially increase corporate income tax revenues by up to 24 per cent, or Sh33.38 billion annually, if all exemptions are eliminated.  “Exemptions represent a significant source of the tax gap to corporate income tax revenues,” the report stated. “Taking into consideration the fact that there are legitimate socio-economic reasons for the application of differentiated tax rates by sector, the tax gap analysis reveals a still significant Sh26.2 billion shortfall in corporate income tax revenues.” According to this report, the tax breaks and exemptions are saturated in four sub-sectors, including financial services, information and communication technology, health and manufacturing. “These few sub-sectors carry the bulk of tax exemptions accounting for about 88 per cent of losses in corporate income tax,” the report stated. As per the report, the taxman needs to rationalise tax exemptions, not only on corporate tax income but value added tax as well, which cumulatively account for 3.1 per cent of the gross domestic product revenue leakages. The report recommends that rationalisation of the exemptions regime should focus on these sectors to the extent that the specific tax exemptions being enjoyed in these subsectors are no longer a priority within the national development agenda. KRA also needs to enhance collection in the four sub-sectors where losses in revenue are greatest through the establishment of policies that promote sparing and targeted use of revenue collected. “This can be done through promotion of export-oriented economic sectors by incentives on the cost side, such as accelerated depreciation, rather than providing enterprises with a global tax holidays,” the report stated. There are currently over 30 tax exempt categories in Kenya, making KRA’s tax regime more complicated, which has in turn increased the risk of non-compliance in revenue collection. “Tighter approval processes are required for introducing new exemptions, regular monitoring of existing exemptions and the introduction of sunset clauses to ensure they do not persist beyond their utility period,” the World Bank report stated. Despite reporting a 13.3 per cent growth in tax revenue during the 2016/17 financial year, Kenya’s tax revenue expanded by less than 14.9 per cent of nominal GDP. 