While Uhuru Kenyatta is President of the Republic of Kenya constitutionally, a good part of Kenya considers him an illegitimate President. Raila Odinga is not in office, but he equally has a lot of power. About 50 per cent of registered voters consider Raila their leader. President Kenyatta needs to make some sacrifices, and Raila too must make some sacrifices. The two of them should have a round-table meeting. And I am very deliberate on a round table because there is no boss. This is where they must ask themselves tough questions. What serves our national security interests? what serves our national prosperity interests? What Kenyans must not forget is why Raila boycotted the October 26 poll? He mobilised his supporters against participating in the exercise simply because electoral contests in Kenya are not free, fair or credible. So here is the starting point for President Kenyatta, if he wants to deal with Raila — and right now it's no longer about Raila, but his supporters — Raila is merely a representative of their cumulative interests and aspirations. If Uhuru wants to deal with Raila, he must do several things: One, create opportunity for dialogue to sort out the critical issues Raila has been talking about: sanitising the electoral process and creating predictable systems for unpredictable outcomes. So when you vote and the IEBC pronounces anybody a winner, all Kenyans easily accept the outcome. NASA believes the IEBC can be manipulated. The very essence of democracy is that when people vote, they do not know who is winning. In Kenya, it's easy to know who has won, even before you cast your ballot. That would be the entry point for a conversation with Raila. Cleaning the electoral process. Two, we need to work on Constitution Article 10 on exclusivity. The majority of Kenyans believe that if you are not a member of some two communities, you can't get public appointments, you can't get public contracts and your vote doesn't count. Three, we need to ask ourselves whether the presidential system actually works. Is it time to revert to the parliamentary system? The reason a parliamentary system may work in Kenya is because the winner doesn't take all. If you have a parliamentary system, the probability of manipulating the vote is significantly reduced. The writer is a political analyst.