Mobile operator, Safaricom yesterday announced a Sh16m sponsorship for deal Sports Personality of the Year Awards set for January 17 The annual gala, which is in its 14th edition and whose theme is ‘passing on the baton’ will fete sports persons, who excelled in various disciplines. Like it has been the norm over the years, Soya which rolled out 13 years ago, will award excellence in individual sportsmen and women, coaches, federations, persons with special needs as well as community heroes. Nominees will battle it out for prizes in 16 categories. Speaking yesterday at the Safaricom headquarters, soya founder Paul Tergat challenged experienced athletes to embrace mentor-ship skills and thanked Safaricom for being part and parcel of the event that has grown in leaps and bounds. “Our theme this year was chosen to encourage our experienced athletes and those at the top of their careers to take on the role of mentors and encourage the rising stars to aspire to great achievements and stand ready to receive the mantle of leadership,” said Tergat. He added: “The Soya Awards remain one of best ways to say thank you to the gallant and resilient sports performers of 2017. Since I founded the awards 14 years ago, I have taken great pride in seeing the Safaricom Soya Awards achieve their vision of recognizing, rewarding and motivating our sports people.” The Soya panel of judges’ chairman Watson Karuma acknowledged there have been complains about nominees but said only those who deserve will be feted. “The panel has faced tough moments within these two months while selecting the finalists owing to stiff competition. “We have done our best to ensure only deserving sportsmen and women will be rewarded. We remain thankful to Safaricom for being part of this great initiative and we challenge other cooperates to come on board ” Victor Ngumo, Safaricom HoD regional sales and operation, Nairobi West region, said he was glad the company accepted the call to partner with Soya. He said: “For close to a decade and a half now, the Soya Awards have been a highlight of Kenya’s sports calendar, celebrating outstanding achievements and growing each year to become the premier sports event in Kenya.” He added: “As a brand, Safaricom is extremely proud of the growth we have seen since the inaugural Soya Awards. In line with our brand spirit of Twaweza, we believe great things happen when we come together, and we foresee a bright future for sports in Kenya as we continue to work together with passion, dedication and integrity.”