Dry weather will hit most parts of the country as the rainy season ends. The meteorological department said only the South Coast and parts of the Southern half of the country, particularly bordering Tanzania, will experience rainfall later this week. “Much of the Northern part of the country is expected to remain dry,” head of Met services Peter Ambenje said. He noted temperatures have also increased in most places including Nairobi, Central highlands but decreased mainly over the Coastal as well as a few other scattered regions.  “Night-time temperatures mainly increased over most areas with the exception of some parts of the Coast and Northern Kenya,” Ambenje said. The dry weather is expected to usher in a harsh January, leading to poor crop performance this season.  “The January-February 2018 period is expected to be sunny and dry, with very high daytime temperatures,” Ambenje said in a separate monthly forecast. Most global forecast patterns also suggest enhanced warming in the next five years because of the high levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In the monthly forecast for December two weeks ago, the weatherman advised that contingency measures be enhanced to avert any deaths due to lack of food and water in the hot January-February period. He said the October-November rains were good and above average in most places.  “The good (October-November) rainfall performance over most parts of the country resulted in good crop performance in most agricultural areas,” he said.  However, these benefits will diminish towards next month, especially in Northern Kenya. Earlier, the Agriculture ministry had warned prices of common foods will remain higher than in the recent five-year averages through March 2018.  The forecast showed wholesale maize prices between October 2017–May 2018 in Nairobi would remain at 21-27 per cent above average, ranging between Sh3,400–Sh3,900 for a 90kg sack. The Food Security Outlook forecast further said regional and international maize imports will be 75 per cent above the recent five-year average to cover demand. “Imports from Ethiopia are expected to continue to atypically rise, and there are expected imports from non-traditional overseas sources, such as South Africa, Zambia, Mexico and Ukraine,” the report said. The report is compiled by the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, which comprises the Agriculture ministry, USAID and the World Food Programme.  The prices will rise towards January.