Senate Deputy speaker Kithure Kindiki has scoffed at NASA leader Raila Odinga’s plan to be sworn in as People’s President on December 12. He has called for building of bridges, instead. “It [the swearing-in] is complete by law and that chapter has been closed until 2022,” Kindiki said. “That does not mean the opposition will not carry on with the process they want. However, such an activity cannot amount to a swearing-in because a swearing-in is a legal process. It must done in the presence of the Chief Justice.” CJ David Maraga witnessed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing-in at Kasarani on November 31. Kindiki spoke in South Imenti constituency on Saturday after a burial. “I don’t think the Chief Justice will entertain any ceremony other than swearing-in the fifth president, which will be done in 2022,” he said. Kindiki said the opposition should prepare to engage the government on its role. Kenyans will celebrate the 54th Jamhuri Day on December 12. “I do not think somebody of his stature of Prime Minister can engage in a treasonable offence. I will be very surprised,” Kindiki said. “He is one person who campaigned hard for the new Constitution. He will end up very badly if he violates the same constitution he fought for.” The Tharaka Nithi senator said Kenya should not be antagonised further. “...some people have already lost their lives, we should build bridges.” Raila has told his supporters Uhuru’s tenure will not last until 2022. He said he will not sit back and watch as Kenyans are ruled against their will. The alliance has rejected the results of the October 26 repeat presidential election, which Raila boycotted. Raila said he will exploit all available remedies to “dissolve the illegitimate Jubilee government”. Raila spoke at Sidindi, Ugunja constituency, on Saturday during the burial of Collins Owino, who was the opposition says was killed by police during the opposition leader’s reception from the US. Raila has sent out invitation cards for his swearing-in. The invite, posted on the alliance’s Telegram channel, says the venue will be communicated after the attendees are vetted. “I will be sworn-in as President through the People’s Assembly and get into State House on December 12,” Raila told supporters at Manyanja Road, Nairobi, last Tuesday, before police dispersed them. “Uhuru Kenyatta is not the President of Kenya. We will not be sworn-in like [Ugandan opposition leader Kizza] Besigye. We will be sworn-in like it was done with [Emmerson] Mnangagwa in Zimbabwe”  