Governors from 18 pyrethrum-growing counties will converge on Nakuru in two weeks to seek ways of reviving the collapsed sector. The meeting will also involve county agriculture departmental heads and other stakeholders. The governors are yet to agree on the exact date of the meeting.  It will be hosted by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. He said the stakeholders will explore other key interest areas to help build a stronger regional economic bloc. “It is regrettable that poverty levels were still high in agriculture-rich areas, but, more importantly, we want to lift our people out of poverty. We will work as a team complementing each other,” Kinyanjui said. He spoke on Saturday in Nakuru in his office.  Kinyanjui also distributed seedlings in Molo. Revival demands sustained concerted efforts from all stakeholders to tap into the lucrative global pyrethrin markets.  Pyrethrin is derivative of dried pyrethrum flowers used to manufacture pesticides and other agriculture-based chemicals. Global demand for pyrethrin has hit an all-time high and the sector has immense potential to improve livelihoods of millions of citizens. Nakuru, West Pokot and Nyandarua counties are high potential areas for pyrethrum farming with an average of 3,000 farmers. The sector was rewarding in the 1970s but became insolvent after debts weighed it down, leading to massive layoffs. Pyrethrum farmers uprooted the crop.   price first The governor plans to revive the sector to grow the county’s economy, which is one of his campaign promises. “If we revive pyrethrum farming then we shall reduce poverty and our economy will have a boost. I want to assure you that we shall work closely with the other stakeholders to ensure this is achieved,” he said.  Kinyanjui said, however, the county government is doing all it can to revive pyrethrum farming as the are has great potential. Anne Kamau, a pyrethrum farmer at Molo, said, “We have suffered for long but at long last there is light since our governor has taken the step to revive the sector and we hope this will benefit the farmers as well as the county in terms of the economy.”  Some farmers, however, said the government must first increase the price before they plant the crop again.  The Pyrethrum Growers’ Association has asked governors to include farmers in their County Integrated Development Plans.  National chairman Justus Monda urged pyrethrum-growing counties to draw up strategies to take the sector back to its former glory.