Kenya’s marathon team to next year’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia, will be named in January. Athletics Kenya (AK) had expected to complete the exercise last month but President Jackson Tuwei said most of the marathoners are still renewing their contracts with their agents hence they have been accorded time to finalise the deals. “We spoke to most of them and they told us they were renewing or talking to their new managers. Once they are done, we will be in a position to name a team for the games next month,” said Tuwei, adding: “I believe picking the team in January will still give us adequate time to prepare for the April games.” Tuwei noted that they want to send a strong team to Gold Coast. “We have good crop of marathoners and we will select the best team, capable of winning both the men and women’s titles,” said Tuwei. At the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Kenya won gold and silver in the women’s category through Filomena Cheyech ( 2:26:45 ) and Caroline Kilel ( 2:27:10 ) with Australia’s Jessica Tentgrove settling for the bronze in 2:30:12. In the men’s category, Stephen Chemlany bagged silver in 2:11.58 with gold going to Australia’s Michael Shelley in a personal best time of 2:11:15 and  Uganda’s Abraham Kiplimo settling for bronze in 2:12:23. Tuwei revealed that Kenya will select 65 athletes and eight officials for the Club Games with the trials slated for March 8-10 at Nyayo Stadium. “If Nyayo will be ready, we will have the trials there. If not, we will have to move to Kasarani,” he said, adding they will use the ongoing weekend meetings to identify athletes to be invited for the trials. “As you are aware, we have a busy year ahead of us. We have started our track and field season early to help our preparations for the Commonwealth Games. We have had meetings in Kisumu and Kisii and we are asking the athletes to turn up in large numbers and participate in the remaining events,” added Tuwei He also called on agents and managers who have not registered with the federation to do so before the end of the year.