There was drama at Dedan Kimathi Stadium, Nyeri, on Jamhuri Day yesterday when area MP Ngunjiri Wambugu walked to a podium, but left immediately over a protocol breach. He arrived at the stadium around midday and shook hands with other dignitaries. Among the were Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Nyeri acting county commissioner Joseph Ng’ene and speaker John Kaguchia.  He was then ushered to a seat behind county secretary Benjamin Wachira. Shortly he was seen walking away. He boarded his vehicle and left the stadium. The smartly dressed MP was escorted out by some of his supporters. Since he was host MP, many wondered why he was given a back seat far away from the governor. It has emerged such incidents make MPs to keep away from such occasions. Out of six MPs in the county and the Woman Representative, only Wambugu attended the function. Sources said protocol blunders in Nyeri have been reported in the past whenever the county government organised national or county events. Contacted, Wambugu downplayed the issue, saying it was a small matter which should not make news. Nyeri Central deputy commissioner John Marete, who was the master of ceremonies, said Wambugu’s seat was near the governor’s, but an MCA sat in it. Kahiga said a monument will be built at Karuna-ini, Tetu, where former freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi was captured. “There is an American team in county that will help the county government build a monument of the Nobel Peace winner, the late Prof Wangari Maathai,” he added. The governor also said he has started an initiative which will ensure Mukurwe-ini, Karatina and Mweiga towns also have Kenya Medical Training College colleges so that the youth can be trained. Ng’ene called upon Nyeri residents to join hands with police and report crime or suspicious characters. “I also wish to urge parents not to abandon their responsibilities and ensure children are taken care of during this holiday,” added Ng’ene. Others present were Nyeri speaker John Kaguchia, a host of MCAs and local politician Wachira Keen. Kaguchia told off NASA leader Raila Odinga. He told him to let President Uhuru Kenyatta do his work for the sake of unity of the country. Keen urged the Nyeri county government to ensure former freedom fighters enjoy the fruits of their labour.    