  The battle for the nine slots for Kenya at the East African Legislative Assembly has narrowed down to 25 nominees gunning for the Sh1.4 million per month job. The EALA representatives are the highest paid in the region, with hefty allowances for the 54 members. By comparison, a Kenyan MP who is the highest paid nationally in the region, now pockets Sh621,250 per month, after it was slashed from Sh710,000 by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Many MPs have lamented over their poor pay and say cannot meet the needs of their dependents in the constituencies. Jubilee, which enjoys numerical strength in the Senate and National Assembly, will take five and NASA four slots at the Arusha-based assembly. But the question is who among the 25 who made the fi nal shortlist is likely to be in the final list of Kenya’s nine representatives? Intense lobbying has enveloped the 12th Parliament as candidates rush against time to pitch for favour ahead of the voting scheduled for Thursday next week. NASA’s list of nominees is dominated by politicians and coalition loyalists and relatives, leaving Opposition MPs at a crossroads on who they will drop and elevate to the regional assembly. Jubilee Party has remained guarded on who is likely to be preferred, as several nominees appear to carry promises from the campaign trail. The majority of the candidates, including NASA leader Raila Odinga’s elder brother – Dr Oburu Oginga – have reached out to Majority leader Aden Duale for endorsement and bipartisan support to solidify their bids to curry favour. Sources who spoke to the Star reveal intense lobbying is ongoing ahead of the vote on Thursday before the House adjourns for the end-of-year holiday. Some of the hot favorites identified by the Star include relatives, party bureaucrats, chief campaigners or strategists.   OBURU OGINGA All guesses are that Raila’s aging elder will be nominated to the EALA. After losing the 2013 race for Bondo MP, Oburu was nominated to the 11th Parliament. This time round, he is poised to take a seat at the regional assembly, thanks to the political power play within NASA and extensive horse-trading between Jubilee and the opposition. The economist is destined to be the oldest member as he turns 75. He fi rst joined politics in the early 1970s as a councilor in Kisumu, before he was elected MP for Bondo in 1995. He lost to Gideon Ochanda in 2013 and has since been a beneficiary of the Odinga family stranglehold on the ODM and the coalitions it has been part of. His nomination and that of Kalonzo Myusyoka’s son, Kennedy, sparked a major uproar in in the last Parliament, amid claims of nepotism.   NORMAN MAGAYA The NASA executive director is likely to sail through unless Jubilee sabotages him for his strident crusade against the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Magaya studied law at the Uganda Pentecostal University after he sat his secondary examinations at Kimilili High School in Bungoma. He practiced and taught law on a part-time and full-time basis at various times at Pentecostal, Mt Kenya, Inorero, Nazarene and Kabarak universities between 2010-13, but it is his resilience as an administrator of the Cird and later NASA secretariats that is credited with his rising star in the political arena. At 36, he is one of the youngest nominees to make the shortlist and his nomination is said to enjoy the backing of all the principals.   KENNEDY MUSYOKA Like Oburu, his nomination is founded on political and family foundations. The eldest son of NASA co-Principal Kalonzo is a political novice. Although he has been the secretary general of his father Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation, he has remained politically obscure. Kennedy, 30, is also a consultant in the Wiper Democratic Movement whose party leader is his father. The NASA running mate was presented with the African Dignitary Man of the Year Award for his humanitarian efforts through the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation. A lawyer by training, his name only popped up in the government crackdown and freeze of the foundation’s bank account for dabbling in political activities before the election. Observers have classified his nomination to the EALA as a consolation for his father Kalonzo’s dipping political star and succession plan. Kennedy will be the second to join the ranks of succeeding scions of political families in Ukambani after Mutula Kilonzo Junior, if nominated. He also stands a high chance if youth representation is a factor.   ABDIKADIR ADEN The immediate former MP for Mbala Mbala in Garissa was one of the more visible legislators in the last Parliament. His frequent appearances on TV and articulation of the ODM and opposition Cord agenda endeared him to many opposition supporters. He was a member of the PAC, Budget and Appropriations, and House Procedures and Rules committees. He is a marketing graduate of the USIU and South Bank University, UK. Prior to joining politics, he worked for Standard Chartered Bank and later BAT as the head of Horn of Africa operations. Coming from a marginalized region and for balance, the NASA fraternity is likely to vote for him as a bloc.   ABUBAKAR ZEIN A member of the Nasa think-tank, he is a repeat ODM nominee, having served in the last EALA, where he was the chairperson of the Regional Affairs and Conflict Resolution Committee. Although little is known publicly about his role, Zein has been in the trenches of Kenya’s civil society and opposition politics for the last two decades. The Sociology graduate of the University of Nairobi was a member of the Constitution Review Commission between 2001-2006 and an active player in the Bomas Constitutional Conference, having been nominated from the civil society-led Ufungamano Initiative. If he is nominated, it will be because NASA has decided to reward its workhorse twice for loyalty and service. NASA also factored in former Kuria West ANC parliamentary candidate Jane Marwa, former ODM women’s League national chair Beth Mutunga, former Kakamega MCA Loy Mwaviala, former Machakos MCA Angela Munyasya and political activist Justus Mochoge. On its part, Jubilee appears set to reward its loyalists with EALA seats. Pundits argue that President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto will decide who among the political losers and staunch supporters to reward with the five slots, with clear favorites emerging.   BISHOP JACKSON KOSGEY If Jubilee were to nominate only two people, one of them would be Bishop Kosgey. The father of gospel singer Emmy Kosgey is not only an influential behind-the-scenes player in Rift Valley politics, but the defacto spiritual godfather of Deputy President William Ruto. He was instrumental in peace initiatives in the Rift Valley post-the 2008 PEV, through the Emo Foundation, which he set up. Bishop Kosgey is also compliant as one of only two nominees representing PWDs on the final shortlist. Born in Baringo 60 years ago, he was a member of the Gender and Equality Commission (20110-13) before he contested for Senator and lost to Gideon Moi in 2013. Two years later, he was appointed chairman of the Board of Management of the Ezekiel Mutual-led Kenya Films Classifi cation Board, which he has been holding. He was previously the secretary general of the Full Gospel Churches of Kenya.   CHARLES AYAKO NYACHAE Another shoo-in for Jubilee is the former chairman of the Constitution Implementation Committee. Nyachae contested and lost the Kisii senatorial race to ODM’s Chris Obure, but he put up a gallant fi ght for Jubilee in an ethnically polarised county that was one of the battlegrounds of 2017. If anything, the Nyachaes go a long way with the Kenyattas and his nomination is a foregone conclusion for those still betting on a fair contest within the majority ruling party. Th e alumna of the University of East Anglia and the London School of Economics has a rich career of distinguished public appointments and service crisscrossing statutory and civil society. He was chairman of the International Commission of Jurists, Kenya Section, member of the Council of the Law Society of Kenya in the combative 90s, member of the Law Reform Commission and a director of the pioneering Institute for Education in Democracy founded by the late Grace Githu.   SIMON MBUGUA It would seem like another sure bet, having been prevailed upon by President Uhuru Kenyatta to step down as a compromise for Kamkunji MP Yusuf Hassan. Yet his nomination keeps popping up among the doubtful because of the many ethnic, regional and gender interests and considerations. Mbugua, a former MP whose first term was coloured by allegations of involvement in questionable trading practises, has spared no effort in lobbying members across the political divide to make it back. Among other front runners is former Nyandarua Women Rep Wanjiku Muhia who lost the Jubilee ticket and was later floored in the August 8 General Election despite being a staunch supporter of the party.  