NASA has threatened to sue the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i over the killings of its supporters. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris yesterday said NASA will soon move to court and sue Boinnet and Interior CS Fred Matiangi over the killings. Passaris, accompanied by Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati, spoke at the City Mortuary after viewing bodies of nine supporters who were allegedly killed by the police. Read : How seven year old Mutinda was shot dead on Uhuru’s big day The nine bodies were collected yesterday. Arati said 20 more bodies will be collected today. Friends and relatives had gathered at the City Mortuary to collect the bodies of their loved ones. The families called for justice. They demanded full compensation for the families. Read : Six month-old baby clobbered by police during Kisumu protests dies “We feel that Boinnet and Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome only serve one arm of the government. The state has to compensate families who lost their loved ones,” Passaris said. The leaders pleaded for urgent financial assistance for victims of police brutality, currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city. Early this week, Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor confirmed that 10 of 18 opposition supporters were shot and killed. The other eight died due to blunt force trauma. Yesterday, Fredrick Philemon said his mother was shot dead in their house in Nairobi’s Kibera slums, while making her bed. Also read : 37 killed in post-poll demos, bribery and hate campaigns rife - KNCHR The second year student at Maseno University said his 65-year-old mother was the family breadwinner. Philemon, despite being a student, will now adjust and take care of his three younger siblings. Their father died five years ago. “My mother was in her room making her bed, when she was hit by a stray bullet. Police were trying to quell the violence,” he said. Christine Olengo also narrated how her 35-year-old husband was attacked by rowdy youths and hacked to death at his workstation. “My husband was in the printing business. They wanted to know why he was printing T-shirts with ‘Resist’ inscribed on them,” she said. Click here for the latest political news