After five
years of poor rains, Mcharo Mwanyumba, a farmer in southeast
Kenya, was looking forward to a bumper harvest of maize and
millet from his six-acre plot this August. But then heavy rains pounded the area four days in a row for
hours on end. His crop was submerged and destroyed, and his
family of six displaced. “What should have been a blessing has turned into a
nightmare,” the Taita Taveta farmer lamented. His harvest
this year, he said, was less than during recent drought years
when he harvested no more than two bags of maize. Like thousands of other residents of the area – and millions
of people around the world - Mwanyumba is struggling to cope
with increasingly wild weather, including unexpected swings
between drought and floods. The 52-year-old farmers said flooding is so rare in his area
that he can’t remember a similar disaster in his lifetime. But better weather forecasts – including seasonal
predictions of expected weather patterns and quick warnings of
extreme weather in easy-to-understand language that farmers can
use – could help cut losses, say experts trying to improve
Africa’s meteorological services. The World Bank says weather-related disasters – from floods
and droughts to cyclones and landslides – have cost Africa over
$10 billion in the last two decades. “Africa’s development, climate and resilience agendas are
inextricably linked,” said Makhtar Diop, the bank’s
vice-president for Africa. “An estimated 90 percent of all
disasters on the continent are weather and climate driven.” OUT OF DATE Speaking at the African Ministerial Conference on
Meteorology (AMCOMET), a gathering of government leaders, donors
and United Nations agencies, in Addis Ababa in September, Diop
said years of neglect and lack of investment had rendered as
many as half of the continent’s weather stations out of date and
unable to capture accurate, dependable weather data. Up to $1.5 billion is needed to upgrade weather services
infrastructure so that it can produce the data needed for
forecasts to help ease weather and climate disasters, he said. Only five countries – Egypt, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria and
South Africa – have invested significantly in improving
hydro-meteorological observation networks, telecommunications
and information systems and other necessary infrastructure,
according to the African Development Bank. Justus Kabyemera, head of the bank’s Climate Development
Special Fund, said that 16 other countries were now working to
strengthen their weather, water and climate services. The bank is partnering with AMCOMET to upgrade the
infrastructure for regional climate observation in the Horn of
Africa and Southern and Western Africa, to ensure that services
generate accurate and timely information on severe weather,
which can then be shared with countries for action. In an email interview, Kabyemera said the bank planned to
nearly triple its annual climate financing to $5 billion a year
by 2020 and build technical skills to help African economies –
and particularly farmers – adapt to a changing climate. The poor state of weather forecasting across Africa is the
result of lack of prioritisation by governments and failure to
commit funding for the services in a continent saddled with a
myriad of development challenges, said Marc Neilson, director of
communications at the Africa Hydromet Programme. The programme is a continent-wide partnership between
agencies and donors including the World Bank, World
Meteorological Organization and United Nations Development
Programme and the World Food Programme. “There needs to be a strong commitment from leaders to
modernise infrastructure, while involving civil society and
benefiting from the public’s knowledge. This means committing
financial and human resources to improved hydromet services,”
Nielson said. Mary Power, director of development and regional activities
at the World Meteorological Organization, said that limited
understanding of meteorological services in Africa had
contributed to low investment. “It is vital to make sure that the objectives of development
partners converge with the needs of the region at all levels,”
she said. Power believes that the establishment of AMCOMET as an
inter-governmental body recognised and endorsed by African heads
of state and governments is a crucial step toward building
better meteorological services on the continent.