The University of Nairobi yesterday revoked Meru Senator Mithika Linturi’s law degree for using fake admission papers during his enrollment. This following a series of investigations conducted by the University Senate and Commission for University Education. They confirmed that the papers he presented on admission were not genuine. CUE chairperson Chacha Nyaigoti said the commission is investigating leaders with questionable academic papers. Read more : Universities giving unqualified politicians degrees will lose their charters – Matiang’i Speaking to the Star, political analyst Wesley Simba said the senator, however, does not risk losing his seat. The law requires the legislators to only have post-secondary education. The senator risks legal action being taken against him should anyone take the case to court. “The only people required by law to have a degree to vie for an elective position are the President and Deputy President, governors and their deputies,” Simba said. “However, should he be tried, found guilty and jailed for more than six months then he will lose his seat,” he added. A week ago, the High Court in Meru ordered the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to furnish a petitioner challenging Linturi’s victory in the August 8 General Election with the senator’s academic papers outlining his qualifications. Read more : 10 judiciary clerks facing sack over forged KCSE papers The petitioner, Mugambi Imanyara, has been contesting the election of Linturi as the Meru senator. Judge Ann Ong’injo ordered IEBC’s county manager Samuel Gichichi to make available the certificates after a successful application by lawyer Imanyara. Ong’injo dismissed submissions by Linturi’s lawyer that the application would offend the principle of sub-judice in relation to a separate case the EACC filed against the lawmaker. Linturi was among the 106 politicians in the list of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to have questionable integrity issues ahead of the August 8 General Election. Click here for the latest political news 