Kenya finally managed to ban plastic carrier bags this year, after nearly 15 years of pull and push with the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. The ban which took effect on August 28, had been protested by KAM, citing jobs losses for close to 800,000. In 2007, the government issued a ban on bags below 0.3mm in thickness, which failed. In January 2011, Nema declared a ban on bags below 0.6mm in thickness, but no results were achieved either. The government banned the production and use of plastic bags through a gazette notice dated February 27. Carrier bags constructed with handles and with or without gussets, or flat bags without handles and with or without gussets will no longer be allowed in the market from Monday next week. Manufacturers who had been given up to August 28 to declare their stock and phase out plans were required to stop providing single-use plastic carrier bags to customers on the same date. During the third UN Environment Assembly that was held between December 4-6, the move was lauded, with many countries such as Thailand, Ethiopia keen to learn from that. The UN has at the same time launched a “clean seas campaign” to eliminate single-use plastic bags by 2022. During the assembly, Environment CS Judi Wakhungu said Kenya based its decision on scientific evidence of threats of pollution. Wakhungu noted that plastics were introduced into the country in the 1960s as a simple solution for packaging, but turned out to be a nightmare. “The plastics turned out to be the biggest challenge in solid waste management. Our decision to ban plastics was informed by scientific evidence of the negative effects of the menace,” she said. Plastics do not decompose, have negative aesthetic costs — littering and blockage of sewerage and drainage systems — and increase public health costs, Wakhungu said. They also pollute the coastal and marine environment, kill livestock and wild animals when ingested, contaminate air when burnt in the open and endanger human health when used for packaging hot food. Experts during the assembly warned that there will be more plastics than fish in Oceans by 2050 if action is not taken. Over 4,000 delegates from across the world gathered in Nairobi, Kenya, from December 4-6, 2017 under the overarching theme of pollution. Margaret Mwakima, the Principal Secretary for Natural Resources, said Kenya took the bold move following dangers associated with plastics. "Globally people are saying this is a big effort. These are issues where Kenya received a lot of encouragement and commendation.On carrier bags, there is global appreciation of our efforts with a lot of respect. Rwanda has banned plastic bags but has not received attention like Kenya, not because Rwanda has not done well, but because it is a very small economy compared to what we have done," she said. "Kenyan people stood with the government given how plastics have negatively affected their livelihood from livestock, environment, and water ways and so on," she said.