Harambee Stars on Sunday began their campaign of the 39th edition of regional CECAFA soccer tournament by beating Rwanda's Amavumbi Stars in a fast paced group A match. The match played at Kakamega's Bukhungu Stadium saw the hosts express their intention barely four minutes into the game. This was after winning the first corner through Wesley Onguso's long throw that was tipped off by Rwanda shot stopper Erick Ndayishimeye. Six minutes later, George Odhiambo raced on the left side beating two defenders but his short range effort was thwarted by the goalkeeper. Kariobangi Sharks striker Masoud Juma put Harambee Stars ahead in the 25th minute after converting from the spot with Jockins Atudo having been brought down inside the box by Soter Kayumba who was booked by centre referee Mfaume Nassor. Hosts doubled the advantage in the 37th minute from Dancan Otieno’s 25-yard screamer that hit the roof of the net to send the partisan crowd into wild celebrations giving Kenya 2-0 lead in the first half. Six minute into the second half, Rwandese defender Soter Kayumba received matching orders after second booking for confronting assistant referee who had flagged for a foul against Amavumbi Stars. Despite playing with one man less, Rwanda pressurized Stars with Justin Mico and Birahamere Abedy being a thorn in the flesh for the host's defence. Rwanda made a couple of substitutions bringing in Innocent Ushuti for Birahamere Abedy and right winger Sakamana Matime who came in for Justin Mico. The latter came close to hand his side a consolation goal after his far post was well handle by Patrick Matasi. On the other side Paul Put introduced in Kefa Aswani for Masoud Juma and Vincent Oburu for George Odhiambo who injected freshness in the attack. "It was hard pitch that interrupted our rhythm of play but I want to pay tribute for my players who played well despite having little time to practice," Paul Put, Harambee Stars tactician, said. "It is always good to open the tournament with a win as that will give the team morale which is good for our next match," he said.  Frustrated Rwandan Coach Antoine Hey refuse to talk to the press. Read: Security, training grounds set as Kakamega hosts CECAFA at Bukhungu Click here for the latest political stories