President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday said he is not ready to talk about politics and will only engage Raila Odinga on how to drive the country forward. The President said Kenyans are waiting for development and are not interested in endless political talks. Addressing mourners during the burial of Muranga MP Sabina Chege's mother, Uhuru said the political season is over. Read: Uhuru rules out dialogue as Raila digs in He asked both the Jubilee and NASA alliances to join forces and work for the people who elected them. "Siasa zimeisha isipokuwa wengine wanafikiria hazijaisha kwa hivyo wale wanataka tuongee wangoje 2022 wataongea na William," he said.  This is loosely translated as "For those who are pushing to have talks with me, they should know time is gone, they can wait for 2022 and talk with my deputy William Ruto, right now we are busy serving Kenyans." His sentiments were echoed by Deputy President William Ruto who stated that elections are over and elected leaders should dedicate their efforts to serve the public. “The debt we have now is to bring development and progress for our country,” Ruto said. He called on all Jubilee leaders to support President Uhuru to deliver on the agenda the Party presented to Kenyans.  DP Ruto said President Uhuru can count on the support of all Jubilee leaders to succeed in the work he has been doing to end ethnic division and incitements and to unite all Kenyans.  “We want to do away with the politics of division and tribalism. Let us support the President in uniting all Kenyans,” the DP said. NASA has maintained leader Raila Odinga will be sworn-in on Jamhuri Day and reported that plans have been smooth so far. The opposition is expected to announce the venue on Sunday. The Police have on the other hand stated they are ready to arrest and charge NASA leader Raila with treason if he is sworn-in as President on Tuesday. Sources at Vigilance House said police will abide by the advice of Attorney General Githu Muigai on the matter, who said this would be treason and that the punishment is death. On Wednesday, Attorney General Githu Muigai told the Star NASA will be violating Constitution Article 3(2), obligating everyone to uphold and respect the Constitution. "Any attempt to establish a government otherwise than in the compliance with this constitution is unlawful," says Subsection 2. "The law is as clear as day and night," Muigai said, adding that anyone violating it will be committing an offence. Read: Raila swearing-in is treason punishable by death - Githu Muigai The sources said police will not disrupt Raila's meeting "but we cannot allow what is unlawful so what matters is for his meeting to be lawful...if it is a lawful meeting we will have no problem. We only take action in accordance with the law".   Click here for the latest political news