The story of plundered African artefacts shipped off to museums and buyers in western countries is well known. But what happens when the perpetrator is an African? Foreign Gods, Inc. by Okey Ndibe is the desperate but humorous adventure of one such thief. Ikechukwu “Ike” Uzonde is a Nigerian taxi driver living in New York city. He graduated with highest honours from a top American university yet cannot get a suitable job because of a strong African accent. Ike is barely earning a living and a gambling habit has not brought the expected returns. He has stopped communicating with his mother and sister in Nigeria because he has no money to send home. His estranged wife, a volatile African-American woman he married after a brief and fiery romance, is bleeding him dry with her unending demands. In desperation, he hatches a plan to steal a highly revered statue from his homeland and sell it for a handsome profit to an American artefacts dealer. Scraping together some money, he travels to the home he has not visited in many years, where he is warmly welcomed as the long-lost son. But soon Ike realises he has gotten more than he bargained for. He is wrought with guilt about stealing the river-god statue from the village shrine that is under the care of his much-respected uncle.  An ex-girlfriend whom he never quite got over suddenly shows up. And his mother has become blinded by the wiles of an unscrupulous local preacher intent on destroying the old religions. Woven into all this is the fable of a European missionary in colonial times who battled to convert the villagers to Christianity and away from their belief in Ngene, the wrathful deity Ike has come to steal. Ndibe, 57, is a former journalist who relocated to America in 1988 and was editor for a magazine founded by the late literary giant, Chinua Achebe. So he speaks from an insider’s perspective of the immigrant experience. You are carried into Ike’s tough life in inner city New York, though sometimes the account dwelt too much on side stories because you want get on with the meat of the matter. This is a narrative that covers the much-written topics about corruption, poverty and the role of cultural beliefs in a modern African world. We see the harsh reality of immigrant life in America, where even the most educated can be drawn into get-rich-quick schemes.  But the shaky plan of thievery is what animates the plot, while Ike’s vivid dreams and the legends about Ngene add to the magical elements. The story is rounded off with an unexpected conclusion wrought by a revengeful river god.  Furthermore, a less debated topic in African fiction writing is the obsession by westerners with exotic cultural objects that increasingly are losing value among indigenous people who, ironically, are looking to the western world for value and inspiration.    Star Rating:   