Iconic wildlife species such as rhinos and elephants could soon be wiped out if corruption continues to thrive. Corruption fuels wildlife crime, which in turn drives many species to extinction, CITES warned. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora released a statement following the commemoration of the International Anti-Corruption Day on Saturday. Kenya loses approximately a third of her budget - the equivalent of about $6 billion (Sh608 billion) - to corruption every year. According to UNDP, funds lost to corruption in developing countries are estimated at 10 times the amount of official development assistance. "Corruption kills wildlife, creates instability and impoverishes people. The 183 parties to CITES are united against corruption," CITES secretary general John Scanlon said. Related content : Jumbo poaching in Africa declines, ivory seizures rise – reports He cited the first-ever resolution on countering corruption adopted by consensus in 2016. The anti-corruption day was marked under the theme 'United against corruption for development, peace and security'. On October 31, 2003, the UN General Assembly adopted the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The assembly requested the secretary general to designate the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime as secretariat for the Convention’s Conference of States Parties. The Assembly also designated December 9 as International Anti-Corruption Day to raise awareness on corruption and of the role of the Convention in combating and preventing it. The UN estimates that every year $1 trillion (Sh102 trillion) is paid in bribes while an estimated $2.6 trillion (Sh266 trillion) are stolen annually through corruption. This is equivalent to more than five per cent of the global GDP. "If people are to be removed from poverty and economic growth promoted, the world must stand united against corruption. This means rejecting corruption and embracing accountability, transparency and good governance," UNODC executive director Yury Fedotov said. "To achieve this, we must make determined use of our sharpest tools, this means universal adoption and full implementation of the UN Convention Against Corruption." Statistics from KWS show that poaching has sharply declined. Click here for the latest political news 