Services at Kericho County Referral Hospital will improve as the US has supplied modern equipment worth Sh18.5 million. Governor Paul Chepkwony said the hospital will get a CT scanner and MRI machine from World Medical
Relief, following his recent trip to the US in the company of his economic adviser Richard Mibey. Chepkwony
said the November 28 - December 7 meeting also agreed that the hospital will receive two ambulances "These machines will go a long way in enhancing our imaging services and helping us realise our dream of turning Kericho into a medical service hub," he told the press at the Council of Governors office at Delta House on Friday. The Governor noted the aim of the meetings was to strengthen partnerships and that the equipment was secured free of charge. World Medical Relief gave medical
equipment and ambulances worth Sh95 million early this year. Chepkwony said they will put up a pace maker implantation centre at the referral hospital, following a partnership with University of Michigan. "For
many years, patients from this county with heart problems, which require surgical implantation of pacemakers, have faced
difficulties trying to access services, forcing them to travel to
India or seek services at exorbitant costs at private hospitals," he noted. Chepkwony said Thomas Crawford, a renowned consultant cardiologist from the
faculty of medicine at University of Michigan, will perform open heart and pacemaker procedures at the
facility from February 19 to 26. Crawford will be accompanied by other experts from the university and hospitals in the US for the operations that will be free of charge. The
Governor said Kericho has also secured partnerships with
Oklahoma State University, that will see regional orthopedic
and prosthetic centres set up at the facility. The university will provide technical personnel to start the process, he said. Chepkwony
said they also agreed to look into ways of partnering in areas of manufacturing and industrial and electronic technology. The Governor
said his county was also keen on value addition for coffee,
tea, pineapples, fruits, dairy, beef and sugar. Click here for latest political news