Taxpayers could lose Sh2.2 billion after it emerged that a brand new police chopper, which crashed last year, had neither a warranty nor an insurance cover. Auditor General Edward Ouko has put the Interior ministry on the spot for failing to secure insurance for the ill-fated Augusta AW-139 police chopper, which crashed in Mathare, Nairobi. The chopper crashed exactly five months after it was bought, but massive blunders by the ministry could see taxpayer money go up in smoke. In his 2015-16 report, Ouko raises the red flag over shoddy investigations into the chopper accident and indicts the ministry for failing to keep proper accident reports. PS Karanja Kibicho, the accounting officer for the giant ministry, often thrusts into the limelight over undisclosed expenditures, which end up unaccounted-for. Without an accident report, Ouko says it was impossible for him to establish if the loss of taxpayer money was occasioned by natural cause, technical or pilot’s error. The public finance management law requires the auditor to give a conclusive cause of loss of public funds. “Examination of records shows that the Augusta Westland AW-139 helicopter was registered on April 26 and crashed on September 8 at a time when the helicopter should have been under warranty,” Ouko says in his report, which was tabled before the National Assembly last week. Ouko observes that although the ministry tried to explain that some parts of the chopper such as avionics had a warranty, the admission that the helicopter was not insured complicates the recovery of about Sh2.8 billion. The ministry failed to make available warranties for the avionics, as claimed, further constraining the auditor’s work to determine whether the chopper was new or refurbished. “The ministry has not given reasons for failure by the manufacturer to compensate lost parts under warranty,” the report says. Failure by the ministry to produce necessary documents meant Ouko could not carry out further investigations on the loss arising from the crash. Ouko says the ministry maintained that the purchase was “classified”, hence refused to submit the tendering and contract documents. The helicopter from Italy was a 15-seater suitable for search and rescue missions, maritime patrol, law enforcement and VIP and corporate transport. It had a camera and rotational searchlights that allow day and night patrols. The chopper was received in April 2016 by former CS Joseph Nkaissery in a ceremony also attended by Italian Ambassador Mauro Massoni.