The Joint Parliamentary Select Committee is today expected to receive 27
names of candidates who were nominated to the East African
Legislative Assembly on Thursday last week.  Jubilee
and NASA presented 15 and 12 names, respectively.  The nominees were scrutinised
by House clerks Michael Sialai of the National Assembly and Jeremiah
Nyegenye of the Senate, before being awarded provisional nomination
certificates.  Sialai
and Nyegenye, who are the presiding officers, will submit the names to
the committee.  The team will tomorrow vet the candidates before tabling
its report to the House on Friday.  The report will also
include recommendations.  The
officers will on Monday next week gazette the election date.  The election date is set for Wednesday next week.  Jubilee,
which enjoys numerical strength in the two bicameral Houses, will
front five individuals. NASA has four slots at the
Arusha-based Assembly.  National
Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale and his Senate counterpart
Kipchumba Murkomen presented a list of 15 names before the presiding
officers.  NASA's
list of 12 nominees was presented to the officers by National
Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi and his Senate counterpart Moses
Wetang'ula.  Former
Prime Minister Raila Odinga's brother – Oburu Oginga – appeared
first in the list followed by Kalonzo Musyoka's son Kennedy.  NASA chief executive Norman Magaya, former MPs Fatuma Ibrahim (Wajir), Abdikadir Aden
(Balambala) and former EALA MP Abubakar Zain are also in the
list.  Others
considered by NASA are Jane Marwa, Beth Mutunga, Loy Mwaviala,
Angela Munyasya, Justus Mochoge and Winfred Mutua.  Former
MPs Mpuru
Aburi (Tigania East), Wanjiku Muhia (Nyandarua), Simon Mbugua
(Kamukunji), Abdulaziz Farah (Mandera East) and Adan Noor
(Mandera North) were
considered by Jubilee Party.  Jubilee
also fronted former
National Assembly clerk Justin Bundi,
former Constitution Implementation Commission boss Charles Nyachae
and Bishop Jackson Kosgei from Baringo.  The
ruling party also listed Florence Sergon (Baringo), Irene Cherop
(Elgeyo Marakwet), Julie Njeri (Nyandarua), Joe Muriithi (Nyeri),
Dorice Donya (Kisii), Eunice Wanjiru (Trans Nzoia) and former Nyeri
nominated MCA Elizabeth Wangui.  But
names of former MPs Kalembe Ndile, Moses ole Sakuda (Kajiado West),
Danson Mungatana (Garsen) and Zipporah Kering (Nandi) were missing in
the Jubilee list of nominees. Former Interior PS Mutea Iringo and
former Embu speaker Justus Mate were not rewarded, despite being among
the 208 applicants for the slots.  The
committee's co-chair Katoo ole Metito has urged MPs to speed up the
process of electing representatives to the regional Assembly, before breaking for Christmas.     