More than 15 baboons are killed by motorists every day in different parts of the country, with the with the Northern Corridor identified as the worst. According to George Kibanya from Conserve the Baboon campaign initiative, public service vehicles were the lead cause of the deaths. Kibanya said most of these accidents take place along Limuru-Mai Mahiu-Naivasha-Gilgil highway. “Some of these speeding vehicles are commercial PSVs and motorcycles who are meant to use the upper route through Kwa Mbira, Kijabe and Fly Over,” he said. Read: Two injured in Garissa after fight with baboons over water  Kibanya who is also the CEO Alcare Kenya Limited called on Kenya Wildlife Service and Kenya National Highways Authority to work together and put Signboards to warn drivers of the presence of these animals.  “We appeal to KWS to contain the Baboons in other areas where they attack people in search of food. Those who kill baboons for food and rituals should also be restrained too,” he said. He was speaking to the Press during a public sensitization forum on the importance of Baboons at Mai Mahiu trading centre in Naivasha.  Kibanya asked communities living near forests to pursue better co-existence with the animals to ensure their numbers did not continue diminishing.  “Harming Baboons dwindles our foreign income considering that there are tourists who visit Kenya to see our baboon species and it takes many years to realize adult baboons in the jungle,”  “We will continue fighting for their welfare and ensure we rescue them from human harm as they are the real danger to animals,” he said.  This came as motorists using the Nairobi-Nakuru highway expressed their concern over an increase in the number of wild animals in the area.  The motorists pointed to the section between Naivasha-Gilgil and Kikopey-Soysambu as the most affected mainly by baboons, zebras and buffaloes.  According to one of the motorists Peter Gathaiya, the animals posed a danger to motorists plying the route as they dangerously cross the road.  “The wild animals have been hit and killed while in some cases motorists have lost control and ended up rolling as they swerved to avoid killing them,” he said. Also read: Wild animals danger to motorists in Naivasha   Click here for latest political news 