The ejection of Water CS Eugene Wamalwa from the Maragoli cultural festival on Tuesday is
a confirmation that the region has not yet accepted the outcome of the last presidential election, analysts say. outcome of the last
presidential elections and moved on, analysts say. Political
analyst Martin Oloo and Martin Andati agree that the incident simply brought
out the feelings by Kenyans about Jubilee administration. Wamalwa
was heckled by a charged crowd in Mbale in the presence of ANC
party leader Musalia Mudavadi. His vehicle was stoned as Mudavadi escorted him out of the event. The CS has since blamed Mudavadi, saying he failed to control the crowd. But political analysts Martin Oloo and Martin Andati say the incident was a clear exhibition of the the feelings of Kenyans about the Jubilee administration. “People
like Wamalwa should be careful when talking to Kenyans. The people are still angry
with what happened during elections and their patience should not be misconstrued to
mean they have accepted the outcome,” Oloo said. Andati
said the incident is a reminder to those tasked with selling the Jubilee
agenda in Western of the work still to be done.   “It’s
high time those Luhyas in Jubilee told their masters that all was not well on
the ground, instead of pleasing them by promising to pull the region to Jubilee,”
Andati said. He said the incident could also be counterproductive to Mudavadi, who has declared his interest for the presidency in 2022. "With that ambition, he needs Wamalwa more than the CS needs him. He should therefore find ways of reaching out to all the Luhyas in Jubilee to firm up his presidential bid," Andati said.  Andati
however said that it was important that Mudavadi finds ways of reaching out to
Luhyas in Jubilee to firm up his 2022 presidential bid.   “What
happened could equally be counterproductive to Mudavadi who wants to run for
the top seat in 2022 since he needs Wamalwa more that Wamalwa needs him at this
point,” he said. On Thursday, MPs from the region castigated Wamalwa for "gatecrashing" the cultural event and demanded that he apologises to Mudavadi.   Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Woman Representative), Kagesi Kivai (Vihiga),
Justus Murunga (Matungu), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Chris
Omulele (Luanda) and Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya) said the CS had a hidden agenda. They said the CS was keen on stoking imaginary hostilities between Maragolis and Bukusus by causing chaos at the festival. “His immediate task
was to spark a bloodbath. We applaud Mudavadi for his
foresight in averting the bloodshed that was planned by Wamalwa," the MPs said in a joint statement. "He was unwanted by the public, not because he is a Bukusu, but because he symbolises the worst of the Jubilee regime," they added.   They
said that Wamalwa was unwanted by the public not because he is a Bukusu but
because he symbolises the worst of Jubilee regime – “as a pathological liar”. “Wamalwa
ought to be extremely grateful that Mudavadi secured him the current employment
as a minister and not look the gift horse in the mouth.    They said the CS was looking for relevance to lobby for his reappointment to the Cabinet.   We know he’s now
seeking relevance for reappointment. He should not incite animosity in the
Luhya community as a bargaining chip to secure reappointment,” they said. Ends…………