The High Court has temporarily reinstated the four Jubilee MPs who had been removed from House committees after going against the party's preferred candidates.  Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Kipkoech (Moiben), David Bowen (Marakwet East) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North) had sued Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, Majority leader Aden Duale and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for discrimination. More on this: Jubilee MPs go to court after 'irrational' removal from committees The four were elected on December 20 to the Labour and Social Welfare Committee (Keter), Agriculture and Livestock (Kipkoech), Environmental and National Resources (Bowen) and Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library (Gakuya). Justice John Mativo's stay order issued on Wednesday means they will continue to head the committees until the hearing and determination of the case. They want the court to quash the decision by the Chief Whip and Majority leader to discharge them from the committees after their election as chairmen. “The Jubilee Party disciplinary mechanisms, if any, were never instigated and as such, the Chief Whip acted whimsically, arbitrarily and without any colour of right by purporting to discharge us from the various departmental committees,” they say in their petition. The MPs also said they had not been given valid reasons for their removal, contrary to rules of natural justice. They argue it has not been alleged or proven that they behaved in a manner that was inconsistent with the party's vision and policies. "That as can be discerned from the letters from Washiali, the only reason why there is intent to discharge the applicants from their respective departmental committee is because they had expressed interest to chair and or deputise the various committees, actions which cannot be concluded to have been contrary to the party position." They also alleged that all through the nomination and election processes, no objection was raised regarding their capacity to stand for office. The notices issued by the Chief Whip were merely an afterthought to intimidate them, they claim. Through their lawyer Francis Walukwe, the legislators argue they were not given the opportunity to be heard yet new Standing Orders provide for this. “I am aware the President and the Deputy President are not members of the departmental committee of the National Assembly and as such their opinions would not matter over and above the decision of members of the respective committees,” Keter says in his affidavit. Speaking to journalists outside the courts, he said that after the court’s directions, they will move a motion in Parliament to impeach Washiali and Duale. Keter noted MPs are free to vie for any position and should not be given directions by anyone as to what these posts should be. Click here for the latest political news