A Nairobi court has ordered the case in which four men are linked to the Westgate Mall attack to proceed on Monday. At least 67 people were killed and many injured in the September 21, 2013, attack Trial magistrate Francis Andayi of Milimani adjourned the hearing of the case to enable investigating officer Charles Ogeto, a senior superintendent of police attached to the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit, to testify.  The detective has been on the witness dock for some days. The accused persons are Ahmed Abdi, Liban Omar, Adan Dheq and Hussein Mustafa. They have denied conspiring to carry out the attack. Links to shabaab Abdi alone faces further charges of being a member of al Shabaab. He was allegedly found with videos titled Training Series In Swahili and Ambush At Bardale, which the prosecution said can facilitate terrorism. All of them are further charged with having al Shabaab training videos. In the case, more than 145 witnesses have testified. Ogeto was the last witness before the prosecution closed its case. He narrated to the court how the attackers stormed Westgate and sprayed children with bullets at a party on the top floor of the mall. Ogeto said the four gunmen intended to kill everyone in the building, not to steal. The gunmen entered the main gate and threw two grenades at people sitting outside before splitting into two groups.  One was stationed at the main entrance while the other attacked the children.  “The attackers who entered the mall through the parking area on the top floor killed children at a party before they proceeded to the lower floors,” Ogeto said. He said the attackers came to the mall using a saloon car, registration number KAS 575X. The court heard that the four attackers appeared to be Muslims who covered their heads.  They also had unique clothing and were armed with extra gun magazines and pouches for their rifles. Investigation team Several senior officers were involved in the investigation. Others were from Uganda, Norway and the FBI. Norway had a special interest as one attacker who died at the mall called accomplices in that country. He had been travelling to several countries prior to the raid. The officer said initial reports of a robbery at the mall were disputed.