The Kitale High Court yesterday ordered the scrutiny of votes for Trans
Nzoia governor’s election during the August 8 polls. Justice Anthony Murima ruled that forms 37A, 37B and 37C be scrutinised. He however declined to order a recount of votes. “A notice of motion on the petition against the winner partly succeeds. I
hereby conclude that forms 37A, 37Bs and 37C be scrutinised,” Murima said. Two voters, Robinson Mwanga and Alfa Chore, petitioned Governor Patrick Khaemba’s
election. The petitioners had asked the court to order both a scrutiny and recount of votes, saying the election was not free and fair. The scrutiny will be done of December 19 and 20. It will be overseen by the court's deputy registrar. A re-tallying of results is expected at the end of the exercise. Khaemba had asked the court to dismiss the application for vote scrutiny. His lawyers Peter Wanyama said the petitioner failed to name specific polling stations to be scrutinised.   During the hearing of the case, governor Khaemba Through his lawyer Peter
Wanyama, asked Justice Murima to dismiss the application on votes scrutiny and
recount.  He said this followed the petitioner’s failure to name specific polling
stations to be scrutinised and the reason. “There has been no complaint from
any candidate regarding the tally at the polling stations. Therefore, this
cannot form the basis of vote scrutiny,” the lawyer said. During the ruling, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula, Kiminini MP
Chris Wamalwa and Kwanza’s Ferdinand Wanyonyi were present and later gave their
views on the same. “We can’t say too much because the case is on-going, we however have no
doubt as the party that the court in the end will find out that our governor
was validly elected in the office” said Wetang’ula. Wamalwa however said the conclusion and recommendations should have been
made and the case be dismissed. “From my observation the application should have been dismissed, but because
he has allowed it, let it be done but I am confident Khaemba’s win will be
upheld”. He said there was no consistence in the application.