Production of assembled vehicles sunk lowest this September compared to similar periods over the last seven years, new data suggests. According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics’ Leading Economic Indicators for October 2017, September recorded a total of 475 vehicles assembled, compared to 623 vehicles during the same period in 2016, a 23.7 per cent decline. The highest recorded number of vehicles assembled on a single month was in 2015 October, with 1,139 units made, while the month before, some 1,029 vehicles were assembled. The same year posted the highest number of locally produced vehicles as the industry posted 10,181 units to the local market. September of 2010 registered the lowest number of assembled units with 461 units supplied to the market. The same year posted the lowest total number of produced vehicles at 5,721 units. Sales were also affected this year owing to a multiplicity of factors including the prolonged electioneering period, effects of the interest rate caps on their customer base and the drought experienced at the start of the year. “It was a difficult year for the industry and among the biggest fears for our staff was the possibility of job cuts as the sector shrunk,” said Dancan Muhindi, communications manager, Isuzu East Africa in a recent interview. He said the company does not plan to send people home in spite of taking the hit from a shrinking customer base as the small and medium enterprises, their biggest customers, suffered effects of the interest rate cap that came to effect in October 2016. The data for the total production of assembled vehicles in 2017 stands at 4,286 for the nine months up to September. This year saw French automaker Peugeot S.A. start local assembly of its brands at Thika-based Kenya Vehicle Manufacturers in a partnership with local holder of its franchise, Urysia. Completely knocked down vehicles headed for assembly plants are exempt from import duty at 25 per cent and excise tax, 20 per cent of a vehicle’s value, that are levied on fully-built imports. The government in 2010 adopted a policy of leasing motor vehicles instead of buying outright to trim heavy upfront acquisition costs and check mounting maintenance costs.