Formation of a county Peoples’s Assembly was endorsed in Kwale despite a heated exchange and walkout by Jubilee MCAs. The motion was passed on Wednesday evening after a bitter exchange between NASA and Jubilee ward representatives. County People’s Assemblies and a National People’s Assembly are elements of NASA’s resistance strategy. Kwale is the 12th county to pass a motion establishing a legal framework for the assembly. There are 18 NASA-leaning counties. Before the motion was passed, former Jubilee Senate aspirant Mshenga Ruga led protests.  Read more : Don't let Nyanza counties take Sh50m for People's Assembly, says Duale He said the People’s Assembly is irrelevant to the people of Kwale. Ruga threatened to go to court to block its implementation. Jubilee-allied MCAs protested against the motion. They were outnumbered. When they had exhausted all efforts to block the motion, they stormed out of the assembly. Undeterred,NASA MCAs debated the motion for more than two hours. Ruga said the People’s Assembly will only waste public funds. He urged the opposition to focus their energy on serving people and delivering their electoral promises.  “Our main agenda as Kwale leaders should be development. The People’s Assembly will not solve any problems,” he said. “By passing the People’s Assembly MCAs will not fulfill their mandate of serving the people,” Ruga said. Read more : Homa Bay MCAs pass People's Assembly motion Mkongani MCA Ndoro Mweruphe, who is also the minority leader, said the passing the People’s Assembly motion was unconstitutional. He said he would lobby supporters against it.  Mweruphe said NASA ward reps passed the motion because they feared falling out of favour if they did not protect party interests.  Also read : Siaya adopts People's Assembly motion against 'autocratic' Jubilee On Novembeer 20, the Kitui High Court has issued orders temporarily restraining all county assemblies from passing or implementing motions on formation of people’s assemblies.  This is pending determination of a case filed by a lobby group, Counties Development Group. Click here for more political stories 