Nairobi MCA’s have called upon the county government to crack its whip on massage parlors which are behind the scenes serving as illicit sex dens in the city. Woodley Kenyatta Golf course MCA Abraham Njihia on Thursday raised a concern on the increase of commercial sex workers in the county with massage parlors becoming notorious. "Commercial sex work in Nairobi City County has been on the rise over the years and further aware that commercial sex work has become prevalent in most sub-counties in Nairobi," said Njihia. According to the Constitution Chapter 63 section 153 & 154 of the penal Code, prohibits men and women from living wholly or partly on earnings or from soliciting through commercial sex work. Njihia noted that the unlawful practice is today happening rampantly and openly within our communities without repercussions on the offenders as provided for in the law. ODM nominated MCA Mellab Atema who was the seconder told the assembly that prostitution is slowly eroding the African " Considering Nairobi being a cosmopolitan city, there is interaction of different cultures which leads to adopting different morals. Atema stated that some of the street boys she has interacted with told her at times they beg for money and go back and pay the commercial sex workers for "services". She also highlighted that an article done by the Standard newspaper on May and July 22nd 2015 stated that sex is growing as a business. Both Njihia and Atema told the told the assembly that brothels in Nairobi are being branded as massage parlors. Hurlinghum, areas around Yaya Centre and Adam Acarde are some of the areas pointed to be popular with the "massage parlor." Advertising of the massage parlors is done by**** who hold the posters in the CBD. The posters contain the number of the massage parlor and direction. What was suspicious to Atema is that the timing for the " massage is between 5pm and 6 am. Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obura said that prostitution starts right from the pubs where there are no age restrictions and young teenagers hang around at most times. Obura addressed the house and said parents role is an important aspect in educating their children on the dangers of prostitution. "Everything is digitalized, parents who are at work are are not aware of what their children back at home are accessing from the Internet. As a parent it is my responsibility to enlighten my children on what is right and what is wrong. Morally upbringing is very important," said Obura. According to nominated member Leah Naikanae not all sex workers come from poor backgrounds on the contrary very educated and well off ladies especially from campus are involved in the act. She added that circumstances force those from poor families to engage in the act. Leah insisted that young ladies are lured into pubs because of shisha which is mostly smoked by Nairobi women more than men. "I have interacted with ladies who have been prostituting and some is a psychological problem. I urge the national government to have counselors in school where the children will be educated on right moral values," said Leah. "Also awareness is very vital to our generation. Some of these ladies and young men are forced into prostitution but by having an awareness programme on the dangers of indulging in prostitution it will be of great assistance in curbing the issue," she added. The assembly is set to review the matter further in the next house sitting on Tuesday 5th December 2017.