Kwale investors have condemned Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori for his criticisms against a local mining company, saying it was motivated by selfishness. Dori said Base Titanium had denied employment opportunities to residents. He called for demonstrations against the company. On Saturday, investor Shomali Mohammed accused Dori of fighting the miner because it denied him a tender to transport workers. "He didn't abide by the tender rules. It is unfair for him to incite locals against the company," Mohammed said. The firm's community manager Pius Kassim said 64 per cent of their workforce was made up of residents of Kwale county, 40 per cent of them from Msambweni where the company is located. They said that Dori should not attack the firm because they are not doing anything illegal but instead are contributing in county development. On Saturday Shomali Mohammed accused the MP of fighting base for his selfish interest. "Dori was denied to continue with the tender of transporting Base workers because he didn't abide by the rules of the tender," he said. He asked Dori not to incite locals just because he feels the company don't meet his expectations. "As a leader you should look for another way the firm can help people and not through mere allegations which are meant to tarnish the firm's name," added Mohammed. Dori in two occasions at various meetings threatened to demonstrate against the firm accusing of living people out in terms of employment. He said that the only jobs locals are getting from the company are for cutting trees for them. "We will not allow this lorries to pass here yet our people are not benefiting from the mineral firm," he said. However, Base titanium community relations manager Pius Kassim said that the firm has employed 64 per cent of Kwale people with 40 percent coming from Msambweni sub county where the firm is based at. "We express disappointment that our leader has failed to engage us and confirm the allegations on our employment policies, he prefers to spread false information about the firm," said Kassim.