The days when I was happiest in my life include when I was married, when our children were born, when I was released from prisons and detention and the day Kenya got her Independence. With an offer of heaven on earth, Independence Day could not fail to inspire. While the Founding Fathers could inspire great hope, expectations, happiness and optimism, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto could not inspire similar optimism and happiness. Despite the great pomp, colour, grandeur, music, cheering, dancing and military parades, Uhuru’s inauguration inspired little ecstasy and optimism. Some warned of great disappointment. Despite eloquence, why can Uhuru and Ruto not inspire trust and convince doubters? One,if we are to believe their promises, the UhuRuto government must redefine leadership. It must never be allowed to mean what it is not in practice. As it is, leadership only means the opportunity to plunder, grab, accumulate and enrich leaders — never to serve the people. Two, the UhuRuto government must redefine our economic system. Our social and economic system must mean serving and developing the people instead of exploiting them and looting their land. We should have social democracy, not barefaced capitalism, whose only purpose is to enrich the top class while making the poor destitute. The system we now have will never allow us to develop everybody.  Three, government must redefine politics to mean the science of enlightening, empowering and serving the people, not conquering, subjugating and making people mentally blind. Four, the government must legally redefine elections. They must never again mean war but people electing leaders of their choice. Elections must mean healthy competition for power, not war between communities. Most importantly, elections must never be rigged. Five, UhuRuto must redefine national problems. While the Founding Fathers left us a list of three national problems — poverty, disease and ignorance — the government must now enlarge that list to include: 1 ) economic system, 2 )lack of industrialisation, 3 )dictatorship; 4 ) four, corruption, 5 )negative ethnicity. Six, government must reject dictatorship and embrace democracy, otherwise there will be no rights, freedom and justice. People must reject dictatorship, whether inherited, one-person, single-party or dynastic. Though some people think dictatorship can be justified, the truth is it cannot. People must reject it with all their might.  Seven, the government must unite the country by eradicating negative ethnicity. Any country that embraces negative ethnicity accepts intercommunity, division and disunity. Equally, Kenya must reject negative ethnicity to end divisions and calls for secession. And the only way government can unite the country is by complete rejection of negative ethnicity. Eight, the UhuRuto government must follow Jesus Christ to work miracles, not of increasing votes, but of enlarging and sharing the national cake equitably among all individuals, communities and counties. As Jesus worked a miracle to multiply five loaves of bread and two fishes to feed 5,000 people, government must use the miracle of technology to enlarge the national cake to feed every taxpayer in a country that should never allow hunger to kill its people. The government should not only use miracles of technology to multiply food, but also provide jobs, housing, water and medicine. Nine, it must muster the best possible advice to make sure that as it pursues economic development, it does not violate human rights or trample democracy. While many Kenyans advise the government to follow a democratic path, a few advisers are counselling President Uhuru to embrace dictatorship, our worst foe for the last 40 years.  Ten, UhuRuto must declare war on corruption or say goodbye to development. We are pessimistic and unbelieving Uhuru’s and Ruto’s beautiful speeches because people believe our leaders are dishonest, enslaved, castrated by the dragon of corruption and only speak well and religiously for effect. As long as our leaders were not given a clean bill of health against corruption by Chapter Six of the Constitution, we cannot expect them to fight graft. Our leaders have willingly infected themselves with the leprosy of corruption. They cannot fight and eradicate it. Eleven, Uhuru and Ruto must have dependable advice from honest Kenyan patriots, who put truth before falsehood, honesty before policy and courage before cowardice. And as nature abhors a vacuum, if President Uhuru does not have good advisers like prophet Micaiah, he will rule us with bad advisers whom we cannot hold to account.  Wouldn’t a speech on the 11 issues have been more inspiring? The paradigm of leadership must change or the next five years will go to waste.          