THE darkest places in Hell are reserved for those who maintain their neutrality in times of moral crises. That is how a senior government official from Western Kenya hailed the ejection of Water CS Eugene Wamalwa from the Maragoli Cultural Festival. According to the man, the incident was a clear demonstration to President Uhuru Kenyatta of how bitter Kenyans are with his administration. He was heard telling his friends on a drinking table that Luhyas were tired of being politically neutral and would join Kenyans in demanding electoral justice. ******* THERE is a hue and outcry at one of the country’s leading fuel and lubricant selling outlets. Our moles have picked on their radar an unprecedented streak of brazen intrusion apparently involving one of the last of South Africa’s vilest apartheid remnants. The man, described by insiders as self-righteous with a fake permanent pink halo around his head, is said to ride roughshod over virtually everyone, even when unprovoked. He is said to think of every black-skinned person as a potential thief and carries himself with the haughtiness of the biblical Nebuchadnezzar, prior to the holy humbling that befell him. There are questions as to why Immigration allowed such queers and unmistakable poseurs to take jobs on Kenyan soil that thousands of locals can perform with their eyes closed. ******* A governor from Western Kenya has not enjoyed his Christmas and is not very positive towards 2018. This is despite his bottomless pockets and “doltish generosity”, especially where his interest are at stake. Why? There are fears in his inner circle that his proverbial 40 days are over. A court case challenging his re-election is not looking good. A source whispered to Corridors that the man with a deep vernacular accent and a penchant for music is worried that recent court decisions appear to have sealed his destiny. Those in the know claim that he liaised with the provincial administration to manipulate the results at dawn on August 8. ****** A Jubilee honcho from Nyanza who recently won a senior position in an influential parliamentary committee is so excited. The two-term lawmaker, who benefited from State House’s preferred committee lineup, threw a small party for colleagues and contemporaries at a Nairobi hotel on Christmas Eve. The MP could not hide his joy when he told colleagues that it was no joke getting the position. “Colleagues, I must confess that, for sure, this was a Godsend, I won’t forsake you even when I dine with the King,” the MP was overheard loudly telling his colleagues. A petition challenging his victory is already at an advanced stage. Also Read:[VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos Click here for latest political news      