I have known about France since I visited the country with my grandfather when I was nine years old. In my gap year, my friend Alexander Michaelis and I, drove his Alfa-Sud from London all the way down to the south of France. Then in the 1990s, I traded the French book and visited frequently. I used to swing a big line then and once bought the entire Treasury Bill Auction, BTFs (Bons du Trésor à taux fixe et à intérêts précomptés) are fixed-rate short-term discount treasury bills issued by the French debt agency Agence France Trésor. I even received a call from the French Central Bank governor of the time, Jean-Claude Trichet. The 1990s were a seriously volatile period, the French Franc was tracking the Deutsche Mark and George Soros was prone to short-sell French assets as was his wont. Jacques Chirac was the president and Alain Juppe his prime minister. In those heady days, I used to stay in the Aga Khan's favourite suite at the Hotel Meurice. I spent last week in Paris at the invitation of the outstanding French Economic Counsellor Benoit Gauthier and as we criss crossed the City and visited Station F, billed as the world's largest start-up incubator, with space for more than 1,000 start-ups. It was launched in July by billionaire telecom entrepreneur Xavier Niel with 250 million euros ($290 million) of his own money. Just four months since opening, all 3,000 workspaces at the incubator are taken and the likes of Banque publique d'investissement where I was asked to make some comments I said this. My observation is this - France has got its mojo back. It is quite remarkable and Emmanuel Macron is a political phenomenon. President Macron who arm-wrestled Donald trump to a standstill is 39 years old, he upended a political system that had been in play since WWII under the Banner En Marche!, a centrist political movement he founded in April 2016, and won the election on 7 May 2017. Macron's party, renamed "La République En Marche!", together with its ally the Democratic Movement (MoDem), secured a comfortable majority in the National Assembly, winning 350 seats out of 577, with his party alone winning an outright majority of 308 seats. Macron's party was a start-up and Macron told attendees at VivaTech, an entrepreneurial conference in Paris last June, "I want France to be a start-up nation, a nation that thinks and moves like a start-up."  France is the second-biggest economy in the eurozone and is forecast by President Macron’s government to grow 1.7 per cent in 2017, which would mark its strongest performance since 2011. Third quarter gross domestic product growth reading of 0.5 per cent was in line with an earlier estimate, and followed growth of 0.6 per cent in the second quarter. Leadership is both an art and a science and Macron is displaying 21st century leadership skills par excellence and this type of leadership is translating into a broad-based rising tide. Last week President Macron also reset the narrative in France's relations with Africa. He said, “I am from a generation for whom Nelson Mandela’s victory is one of the best political memories.” “You speak to me like I‘m a colonial power, but I don’t want to look after electricity in Burkina Faso. That’s the work of your president.” The colonial struggle is a historical footnote for more than 80 per cent of Africans. There are many African Leaders who have relied on the laurels of their colonial struggle but they are exiting stage left and at speed-Mugabe and Dos Santos refer. Macron is helping to turn the page. As we whizzed by Notre Dame I recalled something from Victor Hugo's Les Miserables. “There is nothing like a dream to create the future.''  