 Activism
appeals to the outsider for help; engagement offers oneself as the first
responder.
  Responsibility
by the self, stands as the clarion call and posture of a volunteer and the
International Volunteer Day marked yearly on December 5, provides a reflexive
occasion to take stock on the role of volunteers and how to harness their
capabilities to advance all spheres of development.
 A
radical shift is required to make social development meaningful, especially in
Kenya’s politicised context, where development outcomes are ever the subject of
contestation, even when the benefits thereof, speak for themselves, should urge
us to think more deeply on the potential place of volunteerism.   Whereas
there is no single accepted definition of volunteerism, its attributes are
fairly well known. As articulated by the United Nations, volunteership
encompasses three core elements — the activity should not be undertaken “primarily” for financial reward (although expenses and “some token
payment” may be allowed); it should be undertaken of an individual’s own free
will (although an element of compulsion may be acceptable in schemes such as
school students’ community service); and the activity should benefit someone
other than the volunteer, while recognising that they, too, may gain
significant benefit.
  Kenya
has a rich culture of giving and volunteerism. According the World Giving Index
2017, Kenya ranked among top 10 countries with a 51 per cent participation in
volunteering time and 60 per cent participation in giving behaviour — but these
efforts are often crisis driven and patter off once the disaster ebbs. The mounds
of uncollected garbage in our urban neighbourhoods, clogged and polluted rivers
due to poor waste disposal, not forgetting our inability to respond to
accidents or outbreak of fire such as more recently in Salgaa and Sinai slums
respectively, reveal the wanting state of our public philanthropy. The lack of
institutionalised culture and practice of volunteership means that certain
critical values deriving from the practice are not fully cultivated to become
an ingrained aspect of our collective conduct.
  The
Kenya Red Cross stands out as a leading first responder whenever the country is
faced with natural or manmade disasters. Based on its enormous institutional
capacity and proven capability, the government often relies on its support and
partnership in humanitarian situations. Equally, St. Johns Ambulance, the only
voluntary organisation established by statute, seeks to “encourage and promote
all works of humanity and charity for the relief of persons in sickness,
distress, suffering and danger without any distinction of race, class, colour
or creed; [and] to render aid to the sick and wounded in war or in peace.”
Sadly, although well institutionalised, St. Johns remains rather limited in its
ambition and scale of operation.
  Over
the last five years, we have witnessed concerted effort towards making
volunteership count more in public life. 
At policy and institutional levels, a National Volunteership Policy was
adopted in 2015 and a Volunteership Board proposed to spearhead the promotion
of volunteerism in Kenya is in place. A National Volunteer Secretariat based at
the Labour Ministry has the mandate to coordinate volunteerism at national and
county levels.
  Programmatically,
the Presidential Digital Talent Programme was set up at the President’s office
to draw youth towards innovation and support them incubate ideas that respond
to Kenya’s developmental challenges. Further, Kenya’s attempt to set up its own
Peace Corps has seen the creation of the G-United Program in 2014. Housed at
the Deputy President’s office, the one-year program identifies new university
graduates and embeds them within primary schools in different counties to
participate in activities that promote national cohesion, strengthen primary
education outcomes and community service. 
While these programmes have benefitted slightly over 1,000 volunteers,
the challenge faced by government-led volunteership efforts remain that of
scale and sustainability as well as contextualisation of volunteerism concept.
  Volunteering
can play a role in capitalising on the youthful energy away from radicalism and
vigilantism.  In a time of high
unemployment, which dislocates youth passion from personal empowerment towards
unrest, volunteering for crucial causes can begin to help in transforming youth
angst and re-centering their focus towards more beneficial social conduct.
  As
President Uhuru Kenyatta commences his final term in office, it is critical to
consider the utility of volunteership as a tool for national mobilisation
towards positive and shared outcomes. It is equally important to appreciate
that volunteers risk their lives every day to care for people affected by
humanitarian crises. In braving many dangers to help others, driven by the
desire to make a difference in the face of human suffering, volunteers,
especially at Red Cross, St. Johns and in myriad other formal and informal
places across the scope of our land, must be appreciated more.
   Dr. Korir Sing’Oei is an Advocate of the High Court and legal adviser,
Executive Office of the Deputy President 