Chief Justice David Maraga is among 100 most influential Africans of 2017. Other Kenyan politicians in the New African magazine  list are Ijara MP Sophia Noor, Centum CEO James Mworia and Lawyer PLO Lumumba. The magazine has also honoured Med in Africa founder Yvonne Mburu, Arimus Media Limited CEO Julie Gichuru, Nutritionist Ruth Oniang’o and athletes Faith Kipyegon and Helen Obiri. Three heads of state have been featured this year, namely Ghana’s Nana Akufo-Addo,  Rwanda’s Paul Kagame and President Alpha Conde of Guinea.   Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo also made the list in the Politics and Public Service category for how he served as a safe pair of hands during President Muhammadu Buhari’s enforced absence for most of 2017. Nigeria tops the nominations, closely followed by South Africa which scored 14 names. The list features entries from 31 countries, 12 of which come from Francophone Africa.   Leading business magnates Aliko Dangote (Nigeria), Mohammed Dewji (Tanzania) make a return on the Business and Finance category, which also sees two controversial entries: Angola’s Isabel dos Santos and Jean-Claude Bastos de Morais.   A deafblind Harvard University law graduate activist, an attitude-changing teen dance troop from a Ugandan slum, and a Mauritanian modern day slavery abolitionist hero, are among the fresh faces joining renown business magnates, political heavyweights and showbiz stars in the New African Magazine annual 100 Most Influential Africans of 2017 list released today. The list – the magazine’s most diverse to date –  is spread over eight categories: politics and public service; business and finance; civil society and activism; education; science, technology and innovation; media; arts and culture; and sport – profiles both continental and Diasporan Africans nominated by their peers and industry insiders. “What our readers will find pleasing, is the almost bewildering diversity of this list –  in terms of race, ethnic and national diversity. This list, if nothing else, displays the beauty and power of the diversity that makes the Africa we all love,” says Omar Ben Yedder – Group Publisher and Managing Director of IC Publications. For the first time since the magazine began publishing this acclaimed end-of-year list 5 years ago, the 2017 list features 42 women out of the hundred, the highest number of female entries so far. However, perhaps as a sign of shifting interests and changing times in Africa, the Arts and Culture showbiz section has the highest number of entries and most  of the new names.    Click here for the latest political news  