Petitions and angling for various political seats in 2022 have caused realignments in Mombasa as politicians strategically position themselves. Winners and losers of various seats in the August 8 election are reaching out to influential people in the county in readiness for elections. While the petition challenging the election of Governor Hassan Joho was dismissed, those against MPs Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Mohamed Ali (Nyali) are still pending in court. Mbogo, who ran on the Wiper Party ticket, defeated Rashid Bedzimba of ODM while Ali won as an Independent. He beat ODM's Said Abdalla and Simon Adalla on the Green Congress Party. Abdalla has challenged Ali's victory. Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar's defection from Wiper to Jubilee remains the biggest high profile defection in the county. The former Wiper Party secretary general lost to Joho in the gubernatorial race.  His petition against Joho's win was dismissed. Omar said he will support President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has also heightened his political activities in the county. He is eyeing the governor's seat in 2022. And as the politicians make anticipatory moves, Adalla believes the status quo will be disrupted. While the Green Congress Party was NASA leaning in the August 8 General Election, Adalla is already warming up to Jubilee. He previously supported NASA leader Raila Odinga, but has since announced his intentions to work with Ruto. "He is loved and hated in equal measure. He has been tried, tested and proved to have what it takes to run this country. He is the man to watch in 2022," Adalla said of Ruto in a Facebook post two weeks ago. There were claims that Ruto sponsored Ali to win the Nyali seat.  The MP has denied the "rumours." He has since been blowing both hot and cold on whether he supports Jubilee or NASA. Adalla hopes Ruto will dump the former KTN journalist in case of a by-election in Nyali. Mbogo is another politician who has since changed tune. The first time MP is now closer to Joho and ODM than the Wiper Party that sponsored him to Parliament. He is angling to succeed the governor when his term ends in 2022. Mbogo has been attending the governor's major events, including the swearing in of county executives early this month.  Analysts believe he is warming up to Joho for support should a by-election be called in Kisauni. Bedzimba is a close ally of Joho. The former MP challenged Mbogo's win. Nassir's political activities have pushed him second to Joho, in as far as ODM matters are concerned. The MP is said to be the running the political wing of the governor's office.  He was the face of the county during the anti-IEBC demonstrations and poll boycott campaigns whenever Joho was away. While Ruto and Joho have the financial might and political following to help the politicians, the development of their ambitions remain a delicate balance.