Levis Omondi defied the odds to appear among the top 10 students in the country and number one in Siaya county, despite school fees problems. Omondi scored an A of 81 points, but has a fee balance of Sh190,000 at Maranda High School, where he has been a student since Form One. His school fees problems started when his father lost his job. Omondi struggled with the little his father made after working as a casual labourer. “My father was a supervisor at Mogotio Industry before he was laid off. He went back to the village in Sirembe, Gem. Since then he has been struggling to raise my fees,” Omondi said. Sent home for fees The student said he has been on and off school as he was not spared when students with fees arrears were sent home. “I had just settled in school to prepare for my final exam before I was called back home again that my elder brother had died,” Omondi said. But he said even his brother’s death two weeks to the exam could not derail his dream of becoming a doctor. He added that with all those challenges he was certain he would make it. Omondi once promised his friend he would be among the top 10 when results were announced. On Wednesday when Education CS Fred Matiang’i announced the results, Omondi said he was not near a TV but was informed of the good news by his cousin. “I expected to perform well and when the news reached me that I was among the top 10 in the country I knew it was the fruit of my hard work, prayers, teachers and others who encouraged me,” he said. Cardiology Satisfied with his performance, Omondi wishes to be a cardiologist trained at the University of Nairobi or abroad. He said he first developed an interest in medicine when he watched doctors on TV programmes save lives. His brother’s death has also influenced his interest in cardiology since he died of heart complications. But Omondi advised those who did not manage to score an A, saying it is not mandatory for one to score an A to be successful in life. Donata Odero was position four countrywide. The 17-year-old scored a mean grade of A ( 84 ). He hails from Anduro village in Alego Usonga, Siaya. Odero sat his KCSE exam at Lenana School in Nairobi, where he has been schooling since Form One. He said he expected to perform well but he did not imagine he would be among the best in the country. Odero also says he would like to become a doctor.