NASA leader Raila Odinga has said the plan to swear him in as president is still in progress. He said the steering committee is expected to release the swearing in program on Sunday. The Opposition leader spoke in Mahanga village, Vihiga county on Saturday during the burial of some of the 16 people who died in a road accident at Kamukuywa bridge, Bungoma county. Raila maintained he will be not be breaking any law by being sworn in. "Our steering committee will tomorrow release timetable for the swearing in. I am ready to die if that is what will bring electoral justice," he told the mourners. "Uhuru Kenyatta thinks that we have given up on swearing in. I want to tell him that we are running out of patience on electoral reforms." "We are not going to seat back and let our electoral democracy be mutilated by people who have no interests of Kenyans at heart," Raila added. Last week, the NASA chief said no one will stop him from being sworn-in as 'president'. “I am going to carry the Bible. Nobody will stop me from carrying the Bible,” Raila told the first Coast region People’s Assembly meeting held in Kikambala, Kilifi county. “It is better to stand up for the truth and die for something than for nothing." Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned that swearing-in Raila amounts to high treason, an offence punishable by death. Read:Raila: I will carry the Bible, I must be sworn in Also Read:NASA revamps Raila's oath plan, slots inauguration for early next year Raila's sentiments at the Vihiga funeral were echoed by Senator George Khaniri and Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi who said they will not rest until he is sworn in. While Agoi sent shivers to the security officers present by saying the coalition had picked a judge and bible for the ceremony, Khaniri said the NASA bridage is well prepared and Raila should soldier on. "Baba [sic] we respect you a lot but you are  letting us down. Don't loosen your stand Don't be the first one to drop out," Khaniri said amid cheers from the mourners. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi asked the clergy to join hands with the coalition and push for the reforms that will better lives of every kenyan. While saying the coalition will also push for serious police reforms, Mudavadi asked churches across the country to stop taking sides in political matters as their voice is key to electoral reforms. Related: Don’t relent on swearing-in, Raila told This story has been updated Click here for the latest political news