Violet Makuto has snubbed a six-month contract with Zamalek Sporting Club of Egypt. Zamalek currently play in the first division in the Egyptian volleyball league and are the 2014/2015 league champions. Makuto star seems to be on the rise, having bagged the Most Valuable Player accolades in the just concluded Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) league season in Mombasa. Makuto, who plies her trade with champions Kenya Pipeline also won the MVP award during the Africa Cup on Nation qualifiers staged in Nairobi last July and won the best blocker award during the 2016 Africa Club championship held in Tunisia. According to sources close to Makuto, the player was to depart to the Egyptian club yesterday but changed her mind after consulting some of the players attached to the Zamalek club. “The players always meet during Africa Club Championships and other International events and have created rapport. I don’t think they can give wrong perception about the their club. This is unless they misadvised her because they fear competition she was going to bring on the table,” the source noted. “She (Makuto) has the air ticket and was to depart to Egypt today (yesterday) but she had a change of mind and I guess what some of the players attached to Zamalek told her could have informed the decision,” said the source, adding: “The contract was not clear enough and Makuto suspected maybe the club wanted her services during the forthcoming Arab Club Championship and later dump her. Assuming she (Makuto) quit Kenya Pipeline; what would happen to her career after six months? The source further added, Makuto aspiration still remains to turn professional in years to come. Should the left handed player agreed to the contract, she could have become the second player to exit Pipeline this year after right attacker Gaudencia Makokha left the club last month for Polish side, WTS KDBS Bank Wloclawek. The third national team player to turn professional was flamboyant setter Jane Wacu, who is attached to club Anse Royale of Seychelles.