The inauguration of NASA leaders will plunge Kenya into anarchy, former IG David Kimaiyo has warned. NASA was to swear-in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as President and DP on Jamhuri Day but the plan was postponed. The move is based on their insistence that the elections were rigged and that Raila won on August 8. Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto officially began their second terms on November 28. More on this: Sorry, Raila swearing-in ‘postponed’ Raila has called Uhuru an illegitimate President but Kimaiyo told him to recognise the Jubilee Party boss and seek legal redress if he feels aggrieved. He said on Monday that the swearing-in, that was to take place at an undisclosed location in Mombasa, should be completely called off to allow the country to heal after the prolonged election period. Kimaiyo, who is now a politician, further warned that calls for Raila to become President will divide the country along tribal lines yet the people need talks aimed at unity. The former police boss told the Opposition chief to lead by example by respecting the constitution and seeking dialogue. “My advice to the Opposition is to have trust in our courts. They should seek redress if they feel injustices were meted on them," he added. “In Kenya, the President is sworn-in after he is declared winner by the IEBC. Any other swearing-in will lead to anarchy. Leaders should respect the constitution." Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned that a parallel government would mean charges of treason which is punishable by death. More on this: Raila swearing-in is treason punishable by death - Githu Muigai Also read: Reach out to Raila, ex-Bishop tells Uhuru, says no room for two rulers Raila has said he is ready for talks on anything other than sharing power while Uhuru has said he does not have time for this. Kimaiyo said: “It would be good for the two leaders to engage in a round-table dialogue so the country moves forward. Meaningful dialogue can take place when people stop talking about treasonable actions such as a swearing-in of a President not declared winner by the IEBC.” He urged the President to initiate development projects that will reduce youth unemployment, saying those who are idle are a threat to security and are used by selfish politicians. “The electoral campaign period has ended. I appeal to all Kenyans to coexist and focus on growing the economy," he said. Also read: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila Click here for the latest political news  