Mombasa Jubilee politicians have already begun campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. On Tuesday, former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe called a meeting to discuss campaign strategy. “Let’s start campaigning for Ruto for 2022. We cannot sleep. We must go forward,” Kajembe said. Kajembe, who is the Kenya Ferry Services chairman, spoke at Tononoka Grounds during Jamhuri Day celebrations. But even as campaigns for Ruto’s 2022 bid begin, Jubilee will first have to put its Mombasa house in order if it is to mount any meaningful search for votes, analysts say. The party has spent considerable time putting out unnecessary fires in the run-up to the August 8 General Election, as President Uhuru Kenyatta sought reelection. Political greenhorns, including MPs, have increased their visibilities in hopes of getting Ruto’s attention. Kajembe, former Likoni MPs Masoud Mwahima and Suleiman Shakombo, former Mvita MP Mohamed Jahazi and Jubilee MCA aspirants in August want to play a bigger role in Ruto’ 2022 campaign. Kajembe said Uhuru should speed up development projects in Mombasa to make it easy to campaign for Ruto. “Mombasa should be at par with Nairobi in terms of growth and development,” Shakombo said. The entry of Hassan Omar into the Jubilee fold has caused tension and jealousy among leaders who see the former senator as an intruder. Omar is a former Wiper secretary general. Ruto’s endorsement of Omar as the person to take over from Governor Hassan Joho has stoked resentment. Ruto is said to consider Omar as key to his campaign strategy. Omar is said to have the wit, charisma and oratorical skills to win over hardliners. Jubilee leaders’ jostling for plum state jobs, including Cabinet Secretary posts, has strained relations among party leaders. Uhuru and Ruto are set to name their new Cabinet, PSs and other new officials around the New Year. Analysts say a Coast CS position might go to someone capable of building a strong legacy for Uhuru while also strategically positioning Ruto for 2022. Tourism CS Najib Balala is considered the leader to continue pushing Jubilee agenda in Mombasa. His appointment to lead the Jubilee campaigns at the Coast after the General Election reflects the trust party honchos have in him. Balala replaced Suleiman Shahbal who was accused of falling out with supporters.