City residents are set to enjoy a safer environment following the completion of Sh1.3 data centre at City Hall. The project, initially supported by the world bank, will support a call centre, CCTV control and Internet connectivity in the county offices, both at City Hall and in subcounties. The global agency abandoned the project under unclear circumstances, despite hiring Price Water House Coopers to develop the county's ICT road-map and purchasing expensive equipment for the centre. The project which was started three years ago, will support all the ICT platforms and activities in the county. “The initial cost of this project was Sh1.3 billion, but the world bank left before it was completed. So we don't know how much was used because there was no status report,” ICT executive Charles Kerich said yesterday. The new system is meant to reduce crime through constant monitoring of activities and improve interaction between county staff and the residents. Kerich said the call centre and the CCTV control room are already being set up and would be completed by the end of the month. “The data centre will connect to contact centre where people can call in and ask for help, directions and get instant response,” he said. The only CCTV control room that used to be operated at City Hall “died a natural death” a few years ago. “There was a control room here before, but it died. So this centre allows us to install new cameras, over and above the ones that are already set up,” he said. Data Centre was one of the flagship projects promised by Kerich during vetting. The county has also already acquired and installed 1,500 digital phones (PABX-private automatic branch exchange) in offices based at both City Hall and in the subcounties to enhance communication.  Email accounts have also been created for the county employees. The centre will also make it easy for the county to introduce biometric identity cards for its staff to ensure only authorized persons access offices. “We want to have biometric door access. At city hall there are many people walking up and down the corridors. You can't tell staff from visitors,” he said. Also in the pipeline is the establishment of one-stop-shop- huduma centres- in all the subcounties where the county services will be provided. The county has already secured a partner that wil provide space for the establishment of the huduma centres. The governor will also have one-one- conventions with sub-county administrators and the residents from City Hall as the county is already installing video-conferencing machines in all the the subcounty headquarters. “Our sole aim is top ensure free flow of communication and interactivity, not only within City Hall, but also in the subcounties. We want to fully devolve services and enhance accessibility to county services,” he said. Revenue collection will also be enhanced as the digital platform will provide important information on non-compliance, that will inform enforcement mechanism to be employed.      