  Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has told NASA leader Raila Odinga to swallow his pride and accept that Uhuru Kenyatta is the duly elected President. He said plans by Raila to be sworn in as President next Tuesday is a recipe for chaos. Waititu told
him to accept defeat and wait for another chance in 2022. “There is
nothing like the People's Assembly in the Constitution and NASA and its leaders
have no choice but to obey the law. We have had enough of disturbances and Uhuru has to stamp his authority and tame this errant behaviour,” he
said on Sunday. Waititu spoke during
the opening of African Independent Pentecostal Church of Kenya, Karimenu. He also warned brewers
and sellers of illicit liquor, saying their days are numbered. The Kiambu county assembly will this week pass into law the Alcoholic Drinks
Control Amendment Bill, following completion of public participation forums in
all the subcounties last week. Waititu, who
sponsored the Bill, seeks to have the age limit of alcohol consumers raised
from 18 to 21 years. He also wants licences of all wine and spirit outlet cancelled, bar
owners compelled to display a list of their the products they are selling, tame the manufacture of illicit
brews and lengthen the distance between location of bars and schools. “I will camp in affected areas to ensure we
tame this vice that has killed our people in the past, facilitated upsurge of
illiteracy levels and breakage of families,” Waititu said.
 The governor
said Gatundu North and South are the worst-hit constituencies. “I'm a
victim of illicit brew after my father abandoned us. He left me and my six
siblings in the hands of my mother. I will fight the illegal brews day and night
and before completion of my term, a legacy of zero tolerance of the brews will
be written down,” he said. The governor said he is ready to engage the manufacturers and the consumers to commence other
income generating projects with an aim of ending the illegal trade. The governor
retaliated his earlier warning that local companies and public institutions
like universities in the county have to employ at least 70 per cent of residents.      