SO how did Jubilee MPs make such a quick U-turn on their dislike for former MP Oburu Oginga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's son Kennedy? Some civil society leaders were heard saying what transpired in Parliament was a clear manifestation Kenyans are on their own. According to them, the elite will always conspire to the detriment of all others. They said the defeat of Abubakar Zein and NASA CEO Norman Magaya was a classic case of “the haves versus the have-nots”. When the two were first nominated, Aden Duale vowed to mobilise for their rejection. “We want to tell the country, you can see the leadership that Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka are bringing to Kenya. They talk about inclusivity, they deride Jubilee as composed of two tribes, now their government would be one of their own families,” he said then. ******* A top vocal MP was ashamed into attending a close relative’s burial after he failed to help the family with Sh50,000 for treatment. The son of the deceased, who works for the second-term Western MP, had requested for support after he had exhausted his savings to help his father, who was ailing. But the MP told him, “tutaangalia hiyo mambo.” The MP became too busy for the young man, who is now struggling to settle medical bills. Well, as they say, no one is too busy, it depends on priorities. ********** IT'S rumoured that it's just a matter of days before another mega-scandal is unearthed in the country's health sector. Those in the know say that a leading cancer treatment facility in Nairobi and a clinic bearing the name of a foreign nation conspired to defraud one of the leading health parastatals out of millions of shillings. It is said the parastatal realised the fake claims and stopped payments. However, the CEOs and directors of the two firms are reported to be working behind the scenes to cover up the mega scan, running into tens of millions. ******* DOCUMENTS have emerged of a top government official who was chased away by two previous employers. The official, who masquerades as a perfectionist and has acquired a nationwide reputation, was chased from the second institution for forging documents for payments. The boss was also chased away from his other workplace for staying away after leave. In his new capacity, he has ridden on the reforms of another top official to redeem himself. Despite being tough, his past remains questionable, though the boss whose work he has ridden on to gain mileage is said to have attracted President Uhuru Kenyatta's attention and is headed for promotion.                