China sentenced a prominent
rights activist to eight years in jail for subversion on
Tuesday, his lawyer said. This was the harshest sentence passed in a
government crackdown on activism that began more than two years
ago. Also on Tuesday, in a separate case, a rights lawyer avoided
criminal punishment despite being found guilty of inciting
subversion, because he admitted to his crimes, the Chinese court
trying him said. Wu Gan, a blogger better known by his online name 'Super
Vulgar Butcher', plans to appeal against the eight-year sentence
handed down by the Tianjin Municipality's No. 2 Intermediate
People's Court, his lawyer Yan Xin told Reuters. Wu regularly championed sensitive cases of government abuses
of power, both online and in street protests. He was detained in
May 2015 and charged with subversion. The activist criticised China's political system online and
used performance art to create disturbances, as well as
insulting people and spreading false information, according to a
statement from the court posted on its website. "He carried out a string of criminal actions to subvert
state power and overthrow the socialist system and seriously
harmed state security and social stability," the court said. Before his arrest, Wu used his platform to cast doubt on the
official version of events in an incident in early May 2015, in
which a police officer shot a petitioner in a train station in
northern China's Heilongjiang province. His sentence is the most severe in what rights groups have
called an unprecedented attack on China's rights activists and
lawyers, known as the 709 crackdown, which began in full force
on July 9, 2015. The hardline approach to rights activism has shown no sign
of softening as Chinese President Xi Jinping enters his second
five-year term in office. Court video released In the other case concluded on Tuesday, rights lawyer Xie
Yang received no punishment after being found guilty of inciting
subversion and disrupting court order, the Changsha Intermediate
People's Court said on social media. The court released a video of the proceeding, in which Xie
said he accepted the outcome and will not appeal. He also
thanked authorities and said he will be a law-abiding citizen. Xie had worked on numerous cases deemed sensitive by Chinese
authorities, such as defending supporters of Hong Kong's
pro-democracy protests. In May, he confessed to the charges
against him in what rights groups called a scripted "sham"
trial. In January, Xie's wife and lawyer released detailed accounts
of torture suffered by Xie at the hands of the authorities,
which were widely reported on in the international media. Chinese state media branded those reports "fake news" and
said the accounts were concocted as a means of gaining
attention. Xie's lawyer told Reuters he stands by the account. The decision to hand down both sentences the day after
Christmas, when there would likely be less attention from
diplomats and international observers, "reeks of cynical
political calculation", said Patrick Poon, Hong Kong-based
researcher for Amnesty International. China's foreign ministry did not respond immediately to a
request for comment. Wu's detention led to his father, Xu Xiaoshun, also taking
up activism. Xu told Reuters in July he felt compelled to speak
out on his son's behalf after authorities asked him to say Wu
was guilty. The crackdown has also spurred other family members to
become activists.
 Click here for the latest political stories