Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi will be suspended from Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party next week, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. Savula said the former secretary general will be suspended for gross misconduct during the party's parliamentary group/NEC retreat in Naivasha. He said the retreat will discuss a probe report on the alleged misuse of party funds, mismanagement of party nominations and Osotsi’s links to the ruling Jubilee Party. “Investigations have been done and we have the report showing how party resources were misused and how Osotsi manipulated and messed up nominations," said the MP, who is PG chairman for Amani National Congress. "I can assure you he will not escape suspension and even revocation of his nomination." Savula said the allocation of slots in the National Assembly and the manner in which ODM was treating its partners in NASA will also be discussed at the Naivasha retreat. He said the party is focused on preparing Mudavadi for the next general election. Read: Osotsi threatens to sue ANC chairman for defamation Also read" Jubilee using Osotsi to 'silence' Mudavadi before 2022, claims ANC chair On Sunday, Osotsi claimed Savula and his Nambale counterpart John Bunyasi were among Western MPs betraying NASA’s liberation movement. He claimed the two wanted to move to President Uhuru Kenyatt's party because they did not get slots in the National Assembly. The lawmakers denied the allegations and said they would "haunt" Osotsi. Read: Western MPs sabotaging NASA's liberation move, claims Osotsi The exchanges between NASA leaders began last week after a group of ANC lawmakers addressed a presser in Nairobi, protesting exclusion from House leadership. Osotsi then addressed journalists dismissing the protest by the MPs as personal.  Amani's troubles signal that the 2022 succession arrangements could have begun in earnest. Last Friday, party national chairman Kelvin Lunani accused Osotsi of being used by Jubilee to weaken the party to deny so Mudavadi does not stand a chance in the 2022 presidential race. Lunani accused Osotsi of sabotaging the party by using “malicious idlers” who have petitioned the registrar of political parties Lucy Ndung’u over “nonexistent dispute”. He likened his actions to what happened 2013 when then UDF party led by Mudavadi was weakened ahead of the polls and MPs elected on the party ticket later defected to work with Jubilee forcing Mudavadi to shop for another outfit. On Saturday, Vihiga woman representative Beatrice Adagala said the Nominated MP would lose his battle to discredit fellow MPs. She said Osotsi frustrated NASA's formation by refusing to sign the coalition agreement and that Mudavadi, a principal, had to force him to do so. Adagala also said the politician's credentials cannot be compared to those of Bunyasi,who is one of the coalition's conveners. “He is camouflaging his Jubilee links by attempting to portray himself more NASA than stalwarts themselves. [He is also] selling ANC and colleague MPs under the table in exchange for working with majority leader Aden Duale and ODM chair John Mbadi to be made ICT committee chairman." On Monday, Savula claimed Osotsi was trying to create slideshows in ANC to please his masters but “he will lose terribly” The MP said the former SG was using diversionary tactics to shift attention from the issues Lunani raised. Click here for the latest political stories  