Fame and Ignominy are the names of two border towns divided from each other by an indeterminate strip of ‘no man’s land’. Despite the fact that they belong to two different countries, no visa is required to cross from one town to the other. There are no customs officers to enforce ad valorem [the levying of tax or customs] duties, nor does Border Patrol exist to deter illegal immigrants, as is the case in some countries. Whereas it is exceptionally easy to cross over from Fame to Ignominy, the reverse, from Ignominy to Fame is a slow arduous task fraught with great risk, and littered with the detritus of those who failed to make the crossing.  Raila Odinga is arguably the greatest “comeback kid” of Kenya’s post-Independence politics. Perhaps, even more than former President Daniel Moi, he has consistently remained relevant in national politics, attracting, in equal measure, adulation bordering on fanaticism from his supporters, and opprobrium from factions that see him as the bogeyman responsible for every conceivable misfortune that bedevils this country. He was first thrust into the national limelight during the infamous coup attempt of August 1982. President Moi had at that time become increasingly unpopular and autocratic. The events that precipitated the coup were largely informed by a desire by Moi to get rid of certain elements from the previous Jomo Kenyatta regime, who had sought to prevent him from ascending to the presidency. The coup had two factions of plotters who, failing to work in tandem, rendered the effort a spectacular failure, brutally crushed by forces loyal to Moi. One of the factions comprised the shadowy ‘Kiambu Mafia’ had been led by Mbiyu Koinange. The other, in which Raila participated as a foot soldier, had the hand of Charles Njonjo, a former Attorney General and erstwhile confidant of Moi.  While Njonjo suffered no more than a slap on the wrist for his role in the coup, Raila was arrested and detained without trial for close to a decade. That Moi ‘the visionary’ saw in Raila an existential threat that had to be contained is the subject of conjecture. What is indubitable is that his detention was detrimental not only to his physical health but also to the well being of his immediate family, who paid the price of freedom through incessant state harassment.  But the great “comeback kid” fared relatively well in comparison to other political detainees such as Kenneth Matiba and Charles Rubia. The latter two were systematically broken in spirit and body by state operatives and became pale shadows of their former selves. Raila, on the other hand, came out of detention bolder than ever, though he suffered irreparable damage to his eyesight.  At the advent of the return of multiparty politics in 1991-92, Raila was among those agitating for multiparty democracy. Raila became Lang’ata MP through Ford Kenya, which was led by his father, Jaramogi Odinga. When Odinga died, Raila and Ford-K vice chairman Wamalwa Kijana fell out on matters principle. He then resigned from Ford Kenya, formed NDP and sought fresh mandate from his constituents. He returned to Parliament by a landslide. Again, his “comeback” prowess shone through when it was assumed he had made a tactical blunder.  Having acquiesced to a merger with Moi, the 2002 election found Raila as Kanu’s secretary general. Moi’s intention was to dupe Raila into folding up NDP, with the promise of a fair chance at the presidency upon his retirement. But Moi unilaterally endorsed Uhuru Kenyatta as his successor. At the time, Moi’s word was law. He was not accustomed to being disobeyed having ruled by fiat from 1978. Raila changed that. Dissatisfied with Moi’s choice of heir, he orchestrated a walkout on Moi, which caused Kanu to implode. The party that was to rule for 100 years suffered a mortal blow. The ‘Project’, as Uhuru was known, went on to suffer humiliating defeat by Mwai Kibaki. Raila was on the winning team. What Moi had imagined as checkmating his ‘thorn-in-the-flesh’ turned out to be his undoing and the death of Kanu politics.   Kibaki and Raila soon fell out over the implementation of the controversial MoU, which was essentially a raft of agreements on power-sharing wich were determined before 2002. Kibaki disregarded significant sections of the agreement to the chagrin of bonafide stakeholders. Matters came to a head during the 2005 referendum, which Kibaki lost overwhelmingly to Raila’s side. Kibaki reacted by dissolving the Cabinet, and brought jaded faces from Kanu back to government. Raila responded by forming ODM, whose sole purpose was to wrest power from Kibaki.  Amidst allegations of electoral fraud, Kibaki was sworn in for a second term under cover of darkness both literally and figuratively in the 2007 election. The country exploded. It took the Western and regional intervention led by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan to bring back peace through a negotiated government of national unity. Raila was Prime Minister. Once again, “the come back kid” had arisen from the ashes.  The 2013 election was the turning point that marked the exit of Raila from government. But it did not diminish his continued role as an anti-corruption crusader and an agitator for institutional reforms. He kept the Jubilee government on its toes through exposure of graft schemes intended to defraud Kenyans of billions. Raila led to the exit of the Isaac Hassan-led IEBC over “electoral fraud”. In this regard, Raila acted as the bastion of democracy and leader of opposition.  The elections of 2017 have been unlike any other in terms of extended duration and the balkanization of the county along ethnic lines. Uhuru is the duly elected President but Raila doesn’t recognise that , and he is supported by about14 counties, who have voted to establish what they call the People’s Assemblies. This is to ostensibly bring national decision-making to the grassroots of the nation. The Jubilee administration sees this as a nefarious plot by Raila’s NASA to seize power through the back door. None less than the state’s Attorney General has pronounced himself abundantly clear that he deems any attempt to swear Raila as the “People’s President” as treasonous. Has Raila for once, lost the plot? Has he bitten off more than he can chew? Has he, like the proverbial cat with nine lives, used up all his “comebacks”? These are the questions many Kenyas are asking. There are mixed reactions all over the country. There are those who heap quotidian platitudes on Raila. To them, he represents hope and inclusion in the sharing of the nation’s resources. Then there are others who blame Raila for the current state of unease that has contributed to the downturn of the economy. To these, the government is a tad too slow in cracking the whip on Raila, to consign him once and for all to permanent retirement in the town of Ignominy. Lastly, there are moderates from both sides of the divide pushing for dialogue Going by events on the international scene, the current global dispensation does not favour Raila. Not if he takes on the route of violence with government.  This is why. Whereas in times past, the West indulged and actively supported confrontation with recalcitrant governments, policy has since shifted to the pursuance of individual national interests. A blind eye is turned as long as those committing atrocities do not tamper with Western interests. There is no more ‘human rights’ or ‘democratic space’ as a precondition for issuance of aid. In addition, the West has problems of their own: Spain is battling with the restive Catalan region, Britain with Brexit, while America under Donald Trump has an ‘America First’ policy. Germany is yet to have a government in place.  That the West has given only lip service to the deaths of tens of victims of election-related violence in Kenya speaks volumes about her levels of engagement. Mute to the cries of the bereaved, just as tone deaf to the calls of the Rohingya as they are to secessionists in Catalonia. The tacit statement made here is that we are on our own. We no longer have recourse to the international community for violation of basic human rights   The law will resist Raila’s swearing-in: That is the government’s promise. The events of the last six months are telling — there is a predilection to anarchy by a section of Raila’s supporters and a propensity to unleash unmitigated terror by agents of the state.  How Raila acquits himself in the face of this will determine whether he goes down in history as a resident of Fame or Ignominy.  Khafafa is the vice chairman of the Kenya-Turkey Business Council