Former NYS director Nelson Githinji has been freed of abuse of office charges, as the EACC was not properly constituted when he was accused of using Sh497,000 public funds to service his private vehicle. Milimani senior principal magistrate Lucas Onyina yesterday discharged Githinji, his former personal assistant Nicholas Makokha and senior mechanic Geoffrey Kiriha, after Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko applied to withdraw the case. Senior state counsel Mercy Gateru called for the matter to be withdrawn after the Court of Appeal terminated  a graft case against former Transport CS Michael Kamau on grounds that the EACC was not properly constituted during the period of his investigation and prosecution.  “We seek to have these cases withdrawn, since they were also investigated during the same period,” she said.  Appellate judges Milton Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M’Inoti ruled that the former CS was illegally charged in court and that allowing the DPP to continue with the prosecution will be committing an injustice. The ruling has since led to several high-profile individuals facing corruption charges walking scot-free. These include former Judiciary chief registrar Gladys Shollei (Sh 310 million), former Lands CS Charity Ngilu Sh8 billion and former Kenya Pipeline MD Charles Tanui (Sh28 million). “The law is very clear that EACC can only be properly constituted to perform its duties with at least three commissioners. We find that their decision to forward the file to DPP to prosecute Kamau was illegal, null and void,” the judges ruled. Makhokha and Kiriha were charged that they allegedly used their positions to help Githinji benefit with Sh497,000 from NYS accounts to repair his personal vehicle on June 4 2014, at NYS headquarters in Ruaraka. The three were suspended from the NYS and charged in November 2015 with two counts of abuse of office and failure to comply with procedures on management of public funds. Githinji alone was charged with abuse of office for allegedly using public funds to repair his private vehicle and fraudulently acquiring public property. He was also facing other charges, including fraud and attempt to defraud the government through irregular procurement processes. Earlier the prosecution had accused the three of tampering with a public officer by trying to prevent NYS Senior Deputy Director General in Charge of Administration, Adan Harakhe, from reporting the loss of Sh 695,400,000 to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. The DPP also accused the three of threatening and intimidating Harakhe with unspecified consequences if he proceeded to withdraw from the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS). Among the graft cases that have been withdraw following the same Court of Appeal ruling are namely that Former Judiciary Chief registrar Gladys Shollei and eight othersgraft case ( involving Former CJ’s house Sh 310 million and Sh 150 million cae involving building of several courts), Sh 8 billion graft case against Former land CS Charity Ngilu and six others and Sh 28 million graft case against former Kenya Pipeline Company Managing Director Charles Tanui and five others.