Parents of 170 students in Kisauni constituency have reason to smile after MP Ali Mbogo relieved them of a Sh9 million burden. Their children will be sponsored throughout their first year in secondary school in a move never seen before in Kisauni or Mombasa county. Mbogo said the 170 will have their fees catered for by the CDF after scoring above 350 marks in the 2017 KCPE. Read: Kisauni MP-elect shopping for new CDF office to bring services closer to residents All those who qualified for the full scholarship program were either called to national secondary schools or scored 400 marks and above. On average, each student will have Sh53,000 paid for them in school fees for Form One. But the program is not without restrictions. “We will be monitoring your progress throughout your first year in secondary. If you fail, we will drop you from the program,” Mbogo said. He spoke to the 170 students and their parents at Safari Hall in Mwembe Legeza, Kisauni on Friday. Those who pass with good grades will qualify for the second phase of the scholarship and will have their fees for the second year in secondary fully catered for. The program is meant to encourage students to work hard and to relieve parents of the burden of educating their bright children. Mbogo said the pilot initiative should be a model to be copied by other leaders in Mombasa so as to improve education standards in Mombasa. “We are not competing with anyone. We are just serving residents. No parent should have their bright children suffer at home when others are learning,” said the MP. The MP said Kisauni has for a long time been known as a bedrock of insecurity but this will change under his leadership. “Our youth are pushed to crime because they have lost hope in education, which is an important foundation. Once we lay this strong foundation, crime will be a thing of the past,” Mbogo said. The Kisauni CDF board has also come up with a plan to buy full school uniforms for needy students in the constituency. Some Sh3 million has been set aside for the initiative. “We will not buy ready-made uniform from shops. Instead, we will give our youth and women tenders to make the uniforms which we will then buy from them,” he said. The CDF will also use Sh1 million to buy sanitary towels for the girls.   Click here for latest political news 