I will not resign over NASA leader Raila Odinga’s swearing-in debacle, Nyando MP Jared Okello said yesterday. Okello had promised to resign as an MP if Raila is not sworn is as the People’s President. But the MP says he has changed his mind after consultations with his family members, his constituents and top NASA politicians. Okello, who was elected on the ODM ticket, said together with other MPs, they will collectively fight for the rights of the Kenyan people from inside Parliament.  “I met with the principals last week on Thursday and they all expressed apprehension and advised that we collectively fight from within Parliament,” he said. Okello said he will not, however, relent on his fight for electoral justice. Two weeks ago during the burial of veteran radio journalist Agao Patrobas in Nyakach, Okello stunned mourners when he announced his resignation plans within two weeks if Raila was not sworn-in as President. “I went to Parliament not to sit in the opposition benches, but to support President Raila Odinga’s policies as he discharges his mandate from State House. I had scanned the environment, followed the polls and was confident of a Raila win,” he said. “I can’t sit pretty in Parliament with people I know connived to snatch Raila’s victory while he is out in the cold.” The first term MP who has served his constituents for about four months said he cannot continue being Nyando MP with Uhuru Kenyatta as the President. He demanded that the NASA leader takes the oath of office before the year ends, failing which he would call it quits at the National Assembly.  “This perennial electoral theft must come to an end for the country to move forward. Delivering electoral justice is the panacea to the ills bedeveling Kenya as a nation. Stealing elections three terms in a row is unacceptable,” Okello said. He has said since he made the announcement, Raila has reaffirmed his commitment to carry the Bible and take the oath of office. Earlier this month, Raila said no one will stop him from being sworn-in as ‘President’.  “It is better to stand up for the truth and die for something than die for nothing,” Raila said. Attorney General Githu Muigai has warned that swearing-in Raila amounts to high treason, an offence punishable by death.