So we are deep into the festive season...All my Kao pals are now officially in vests because it’s the last weekend of the Vestive season! So with 24 hours to Christ’s birthday, I know we are all ready for a major turn-up en celebrations... Christmas is the one day when everyone is allowed to wear good clothes and a smile! No one should be salty or catch feelings on this special day... It doesn’t matter what you are going through because Christmas is the one day most if not all problems are postponed until after Boxing Day...  If you have an issue with anybody on from the 24th of December, you have to forgive them en call a truce! No bouting, no backbiting; it’s the time to make merry or maybe meet Mary!  To all the village girls, please beware of the slay boys from the city, who are planning to invade upcountry in their fake designer outfits from Nairobi stalls... Don’t be fooled by the skinny jeans, fancy shoes en accent, Yote ni Bure #Resist! To first-time drinkers, kindly don’t panic when you see the drinks. Find one that you can afford en control because the moment you get excited and drink anything en everything thinking your tummy is a brewery, “Uta Nyamba!!!”  If you don’t have to drink, it’s perfect! Being drunk doesn’t make you the life of the party, that’s a fat lie... It will only make you the joke or the arse of the party! So if you’re attending any social events or private gathering en you can’t handle your Akohor, don’t try en be a hero... Also, don’t drink and drive or smoke en fly. Get a designated driver or just use any of the available taxi Apps!!! If you’re travelling to the village, don’t speed. Have no rush, it’s a vacation. Take your time, slow your roll before you become another Christmas statistic!  If you have never driven to shags or outside your city, don’t event try en feel like you’re now a master and take your loan on wheels to any major highway!  If the furthest you drive is from your hood to the office, don’t mess with any major highway! Stay away from any major roads; it’s a jungle out there!  If you have to use your private car instead of public transportation, please hire an experienced driver en roll like a boss. That way, you get more street credit and you stay alive!