While you will be grappling with January blues, probably after overspending during the festive season, your MP will be smiling all the way to the bank.  All thanks to a series of lavish retreats and bonding workshops lined up by Parliament. The 416 legislators will gobble up millions of shillings from the public coffers during the seminars. The Star has established that Parliament is organising retreats for all the 32 new House committees, beginning next week, ahead of resumption of business. The lawmakers are currently on a two-month recess until mid-February, when they resume for the second session. Read: Corridors of Power The retreats meant to tutor the MPs on their committee roles will be held outside Nairobi – often in expensive hotels at the Coast – overlooking the beautiful stretch of white sand on the beaches of the Indian Ocean. Some MPs are said to be pushing for benchmarking exercises abroad, immediately after the induction process. Lawmakers pocket fat allowances when on official foreign trips. Already, the MPs have succeeded in restoring their high pay packages that were slashed by the Salaries and Renumeration Commission in July. The High Court on December 15 suspended the Gazette notice that reduced the packages and allowed MPS to claim retroactive perks. Yesterday, the Star exclusively reported that the MPs, stopping at nothing, are now demanding a Sh5 million car grant that was scrapped in the SRC review.  work-life balance The luxurious retreats will cost the taxpayer millions of shillings to cater for their flights, accommodation and allowances. Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chairman William Cheptumo (Baringo North) and his Lands counterpart Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South) told the Star that the retreats were on the cards. “Actually our induction will begin on January 26 and run for three days. We’ll leave on January 29,” Cheptumo said. Nyamai said her committee will proceed for the retreat on January 29 but the venue is yet to be decided. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Cheptumo, a former Assistant Minister for Justice, said new MPs need the induction to understand the mandate of the committees. In August, Parliament held a week-long induction workshop for all the 349 members of National Assembly and 67 senators in various prestigious hotels. MPs, led by Speaker Justin Muturi, were booked at the Intercontinental Hotel, Nairobi, while senators, led by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, stayed at the luxurious Simba Lodge in Naivasha. “The Members are expected to not only interact amongst themselves for the purpose of embracing team work, but will also be taken through the legislation process, House practices and procedures and operations of Parliament,” information on the first induction, posted on Parliament’s website, says.  “Members will also have a session on the strategies on how to achieve work-life balance, given the societal expectations and demands placed on their office.”   High-end hotels While on parliamentary business outside Nairobi, MPs are paid a maximum allowance of Sh15,000 per day. They are allowed a maximum of three sittings a day. That means each member could pocket at least Sh45,000 in allowances in one day. This amounts to Sh135,000 in three days per lawmaker, and Sh56 million for all of them. This amount does not cover accommodation and travel expenses. Days before they went on recess, MPs amended House rules to increase the number and size of House committees to allow each lawmaker to be appointed to at least two committees. The legislators prefer to be housed in high-end hotels at the Coast. Throughout January, the Serena Beach Resort & Spa for instance, will be charging Sh12,000 for a single room. Should the Parliamentary Service Commission opt for the facility, then it will pay Sh14,976,000 for all the MPs and senators for the three days. Kenya Airways yesterday told the Star that a return ticket for economy to Mombsa will cost Sh15,150 while business class will cost 40,785 around January 26. The fares increase if the booking is not made in advance. Committee chairpersons and their deputies fly on business class while members  are booked on economy class. This means that if most committees fly to the Coast, as expected, Parliament will spend at least Sh6,302,400 on air tickets alone. Read: NASA to unveil events meant to ‘push Uhuru out of power’ Click here for the latest political news