Title: Unrehearsed Artist: Xtatic Genre: Hip hop/Rap Release: December 1   While Gloria Mecheo, professionally known as Xtatic, is soaring heights with her music, it’s quite unfortunate that she doesn’t get the attention she deserves. Ask around, you will be very lucky to find anyone who even knows what she’s been up to. Her presence is vague. The thing is, she has not pushed her way into the playlists of casual rap consumers. Xtatic has particularly been fond of stirring conversations centred on sexual orientation and religious affiliation. She’s different. However, she’s not been expending the energy we expected we would see in her music since she got into the scene. She was only 21 when she released “The Prep Track”, a track that certainly got her signed with Sony Music Entertainment Africa, but what happened?  The deal hasn’t really done much for her. It has only swung her career too far to the opposite direction. After years of working with Sony, she finally has her debut release “Unrehearsed,” which, as the name suggests, sound not thoroughly done. After a first quick listen, it leaves a lot to be desired. In only 36 minutes, you are presented with 10 tracks that feel like you are listening to Ugandan rapper Keko all over again. The effort kicks off with “We Ryde”, a track that features South African Kwesta and Chelz. “Hit ‘em Up”, one of the essential tracks on the album, features top rapper AKA and Priddy Ugly.  Xtatic takes us back in the day on Kata, a track that revisits one of Kenya’s most popular classics. Throughout the album, she is making references of Nairobi, switching between Kiwahili and English bars. Other essential tracks include “Obsession Diary”, “Again”, “Trouble and Wild!”  It’s lack of sugary elements that kill the vibe of the entire effort. Xtatic seems to be very comfortable in a space that doesn’t seem to be paying off. Well, she’s got bars, but she ought to reinvent herself and settle into a nice, contemporary rap-sung balance. In truth, “Unrehearsed” is no where close to reinvigorating the ‘Best Kenyan Rapper’ claims which she sparked years ago.    Star Rating:   2/5  