Two NASA officials in Migori have announced readiness for their leader Raila Odinga's planned swearing-in on Jamhuri Day. County chairmen Philip Makabong’o (ODM) and Samuel Migore (Ford Kenya) said on Friday that the ceremony should take place. They asked Raila and the committee not to back down despite calls by local and international people and bodies. "The ceremony is no longer Raila's initiative but a blessing for millions of Kenyans who came out to vote for him,” Makabong’o said. He asked NASA supporters not to ask for finer details such as the venue as "they may be used by the Jubilee government to scuttle the ceremony'. “All we need is a High Court judge, a registrar of the court and a Bible. The rest - a president, his deputy and their spouses - we have in Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper)." Earlier today, police said they will arrest and charge Raila with treason should he be inaugurated or do anything unlawful. More on this: We're ready to arrest, charge Raila with treason - police Migore said the country is deeply divided and that Migori only recognises the August 8 election which he claimed the ODM leader won. “Several people died and they were from specific areas of the country. This has signaled oppression for the next five years. Our only hope lies in the swearing-in ceremony." The two leaders said that since their second terms officially began on November 28, President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have not embarked on any attempt to heal the country and bring all Kenyans together. They said attempts at dialogue will fail unless malpractices in the first poll are dealt. "IEBC servers should be opened and the rightful winner declared." Migore said any attempt to charge Raila and organisers of the inauguration with treason will not scare supporters despite the punishment of death. “We are not afraid of the death sentence since Jubilee has shown us it can be meted on innocent demonstrators, children playing in their homes and even medics who take part in helping injured demonstrators." The two officials asked the Opposition leader to select a location in the county in case the government thwarts the pans elsewhere. More on this: 'No backing down': NASA plans 'many activities' for Raila swearing-in Also read: Raila keeps state anxious over swearing-in Click here for the latest political news