"There are but two ways of paying debt: Increase of industry in raising income, increase of thrift in laying out." —Thomas Carlyle While the nation’s attention was on the persistent toxic political deadlock, a number of issues that ordinarily would have raised an alarm passed by without much scrutiny. First, Treasury announced that the revenue target for the first quarter of 2017-18 was short by Sh40 billion. This did not take into account the beating the economy took in three months of near economic paralysis. We have also missed an opportunity to interrogate the import of a statement released by rating agency Moody’s, which placed the B1 long term issuer rating of the government on review for downgrade. The statement raised issues that require immediate attention. It pointed out the persistent large primary deficit that continues to drive giant indebtedness. Our debt burden has risen to 56.4 per cent of GDP, compared to five years ago when it was 40.5 per cent. Government liquidity pressure is also expected to rise in the face of increasingly large financing needs and the uncertainty over the future of the economy due to the current political heat. The statement was dismissed by the Finance CS. The IMF also issued a stark warning to financial authorities to rein in the rising levels of public debt, which will negatively affect future economic output. The IMF pointed out that the nation’s public debt pressure is so intense that the country uses 25 per cent of revenue to service debts. The national debt is now close to Sh4.5 trillion. In June 2014 the national debt was less than Sh1 trillion. The IMF will be in the country this month to review a stand-by arrangement. The government recently renegotiated the repayment of a $750 million (Sh77 billion) syndicated loan that was due in October to April. Ten per cent of this loan was paid as some of the creditors were not willing to reschedule. In banking and finance parlance, restructuring and rescheduling of facilities is a clear and indisputable pointer to strain on finance and hence inability to pay. The government is also expected to issue another syndicated loan and a Eurobond shortly. Whilst it’s not clear to what use these funds will be put, raising further debt when you can’t settle previous debt is neither prudent nor responsible. The President’s inaugural speech was very long on expansionary programmes such as universal healthcare, free secondary education, home ownership schemes and infrastructural development that will continue to gobble up revenue and add more pressure on government finances. These events may be brushed off by the government as usual, but taken together, it’s crystal clear that we are heading to an approaching financial storm. Declining revenue, unserviceable levels of debts, significant long-term unemployment, structural and systemic budget deficits are defining characteristics of a financial crisis. Our case is further worsened by the declining productivity of our economy as a result of the current political stalemate. Nations that are in the midst of political storms bury their heads in the sand until the IMF and world Bank start knocking on their doors or the financial sector collapses and the government is forced to intervene to bail out banks when it’s too late. This was the case in Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Spain in the European debt crisis. Those governments’ failure to manage private and public sector borrowing caused enormous pain and untold suffering to the citizenry. A key plank of any public finance system is to distribute the burden and benefit of public debt between the current and future generations. But we seem to be borrowing so heavily without any regard to future generations and the ability of our resources to service the national debt. The nation’s economic state of affairs is thus in perilous state. We must make our economy more productive and reduce our public expenditure. But this can’t happen with the current political impasse. It’s imperative that we immediately attend to the politics of the nation and find a lasting solution to the recurring political gridlock. We then need to focus on a long-term plan to have a growth level exceeding 10 per cent for a sustained period of 20 years or more. Cotu, FKE and Kepsa should take keen interest in finding a solution to the political crisis. They must take cognisance of a basic premise, that long-term political stability is a prerequisite for real and sustainable economic growth. A prolonged political deadlock will no doubt put us on a slippery path economically. The government might soon find itself in a situation in which it will not be able to meet its financial obligations. Our financial credibility will then be a junk case and it’s then that we will have a political as well as an economic crisis. Works with the Wajir government 