Transparency International has invited Kenyans to register for an integrity walk aimed at fighting corruption. In January, Kenya was ranked one of the most corrupt countries not only in Africa but also globally. Transparency International's corruption index placed the country at position 145 out of 176 countries, with a score of 26. Kenya attained a below average score in the Index in 2016, showing no improvement from 2014 rankings. Read: Kenya 4th most corrupt country in East Africa - TI index "The walk offers an opportunity for active citizens to stand and demand accountability and leadership from the political leadership," TI said via twitter on Saturday. The event will take place on December 9 starting from Uhuru Park's Freedom Corner. Kenyans can either register as a corporate or as an individual by paying Sh1000. Participants will arrive between 8 am to 8.30 am when registration and warm up will take place at Freedom Corner. From 8am to 11.00 am there will be flagging off the walk from there. The finish line will be at Uhuru Gardens. Popular celebrations for the International Anti-Corruption Day including the Integrity Awards and a live concert will take place at 11am to 3.00 pm. Participants should wear sports gear and the event T-shirt for the walk or any other branded merchandise for the walk. "We have branded merchandise for sale including caps, Key-holders, Mugs, Flash disk, shopping bags and T-shirts. You can buy online," TI, which is headed by Samuel Kimeu, said. 'RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP' According to TI, Participants will get eligibility to TI-Kenya membership while Corporate participants will be recognized during the walk and Anti-corruption Day celebrations. "The need to nurture responsible leadership continues to be a very important endeavour to which the voice of citizens and other responsible actors needs to be demonstrated," TI said. The index said the walk will Improve knowledge and capacity of citizens to engage actively in the fight against corruption. "...increased citizen action to hold political leaders and public officials accountable and support for anti-corruption initiatives," TI said. "There is need for continued attention to the quality of constitutional, regulatory and institutional frameworks, their operationalisation and protection against reversal of gains." In January, Opposition leader Raila Odinga hit at the government over increased corruption saying President Uhuru Kenyatta is a "patron of the corrupt". Responding to the TI survey, Raila said the low ranking of Kenya should have called for outrage but nobody from the government reacted to it. "Uhuru is the patron of the corrupt since corruption is the only industry doing well in Kenya," Raila said. More on this: [VIDEO] Corruption only thriving industry in Kenya, Uhuru its patron - Raila Uhuru once scolded government officials over rampant corruption saying the situation was frustrating. "Corruption is frustrating me. The pressure is on me to do something about corruption but my hands are tied," he said. He noted he had played his part and engaged in a blame game with the Judiciary and senior government officers over the failing war on graft. [VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruption Read: I have played my part in corruption fight –Uhuru Click here for the latest political news