Karatina University vice chancellor Mucai Muchiri has urged the government to have the education system reviewed to allow national integration.  “The university organised a conference on national cohesion to encourage coexistence among communities. Some of the recommendations include a review of curriculum to include integration issues in the entire education system,” he said. “It is time to ponder and lay the foundation for how the university shall respond to the new curriculum being administered at the basic education level.” The conference focussed on cohesion and national values as espoused in the Constitution to make them easy to understand, Muchiri said. He spoke on Friday during the fifth graduation ceremony at the institution. Some 1,576 students graduated with certificates, degrees and diplomas. Muchiri urged the graduands to be peace ambassadors wherever they will be to end deep-seated religious, political, cultural and ethnic divisions.  partnership The university has partnered with the Vision 2030 Delivery Secretariat in research and curriculum development. The partnership is also meant to create awareness of the national blueprint and spur economic growth. The university will use its students as youth ambassadors to promote the development plan to promote participation by all citizens. University chancellor Japheth Kiptoon urged the institution to review its academic curriculum to be in tandem with the new education curriculum set to be implemented by the Education ministry in January. The content offered by the university must also focus on the needs of society, especially in line with technological and socioeconomic changes, he added. transformation The university curriculum must consider transformation brought about by the digital and information age and the skills imparted should augur well with the new breed of students. On March 1, the institution will mark five years since it was elevated to a full-fledged university. Kiptoon urged graduands to form an alumni association. About 4,000 students have graduated from the institution in the past five years. The university plans to expand its infrastructure to accommodate more programmes. university tower Council chairman John Kobia said the university is seeking partnership and support to construct an ultramodern building in Karatina town to be known as Karatina University Towers. “This building will not only help residents of the town to sharpen their business skills, but also become a hub in the region for innovation and entrepreneurship,” he said. “I call upon political leaders in the region to support the idea of the Karatina University Towers in the town.” Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, who also attended the function, promised to support the institution to help it grow.