Some parents and guardians have been pretending to be poor to have their children enrolled for the Wings to Fly education scholarship from Equity Bank, an official has said. Kiambu Equity Bank branch manager Stephen Wanjie yesterday said this year they did a thorough background check to identify the most needy cases. “There were impostors here and there, but we were able to eliminate them through the strict measures we have put in place,” he said. Wanjie spoke in Kiambu town’s Madaraka Gardens while flagging-off eight beneficiaries of the programme for induction at Kenyatta University. The induction will be done next week on Tuesday. Wanjie said 169 people had applied for the sponsorship programme in Kiambu subcounty, but only 65 were selected for interviews. Finally, only four boys and four girls made the cut. Kiambu MP Jude Njomo, who attended the flagging-off ceremony, urged the eight beneficiaries to focus on their education when they join secondary schools.  We want Kiambuto have people of substance who will leave a legacy like that of late Wangari Maathai,” the MP said. Kiambu subcounty education officer Roseline Litaba told the beneficiaries not to be misled by their peers and to remember where they come from. “Use this opportunity to focus on education to change your families’ situation,” she said. Parents and guardians of the beneficiaries were told to be involved in their children’s education and not sit back simply because Equity Bank is paying fees for their children. ABOUT THE PROGRAMME The programme defines social and economic vulnerability to include students who have lost of one or both parents. It also helps students whose parents are living with HIV-Aids or chronic illnesses and who are unable to educate their children, and families affected by disasters such as famine In addition to a focus on academic excellence and achievement, the programme’s curriculum places an emphasis on skills development and networks to help students succeed in secondary school and beyond. Upon graduation, scholars with high academic achievements are selected for internships with Equity Bank. They become part of an alumni programme that hosts annual conferences and facilitates networking with industry leaders. Potential scholars are selected through a transparent and community owned selection process. District Scholarship Selection Boards are constituted in all recruiting districts under the coordination of the Equity Bank branch in the locality. Bright but needy students who pass the KCPE exam are identified and screened based on factors of social and economic vulnerability.  