Days before this year ends, 2017 has been documented among the three hottest years on record. While 2017 has been a cooler year than the record-setting 2016, it is likely to claim second position, according to the World Meteorological Organization. The organisation says 2016 was the hottest year, because it was helped by El Niño, which brings higher temperatures in parts of the world. This is likely to leave 2017 as the warmest year not influenced by an El Niño event. The year 2015 is the third hottest.  Experts said the high temperatures this year were caused by increased pollution from greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. “The world also continues to witness rising sea levels, with some level of acceleration and increasing concentration of greenhouse gases,” WMO says in a statement. Read:Uhuru launches Sh25 million drought mitigation for Kitui East WMO uses measurements of air temperature over land and sea-water temperature measurements over oceans to estimate temperatures around the globe. The effects of higher temperatures with reduced rains have been disastrous, especially in Kenya. Following well-below average rainfall over many parts of Kenya during the 2017 “long rains” season (March to May), millions of people are expected to usher in the New Year on food donations. Kenya declared the 2017 drought, which affected 23 counties, a national disaster. Nairobi faced water shortages that have compelled city authorities to ration water until the dams that supply the capital are replenished. Cereal prices rose and first quarter 2017 GDP figures showed a significant negative economic impact. Read:Kenya declares drought national disaster, asks for help The government’s drought mitigation measures included provision of cash transfers and allowing maize importation to stabilise high food prices. Food prices in Kenya also reached record proportions this year and were at one point among the highest in the world, according to one researcher. Dr Timothy Njagi, a researcher from Tegemeo Institute, said maize prices in Kenya were three times higher than the global market price in May this year. “In Kenya, a tonne of maize in the local market is selling at Sh50,000 ($500 ) compared to the global market price of Sh15,000 ($150 ). A tonne of sugar in Kenya is selling at Sh120,000 and Sh40,000 globally,” he said. According to the Regional Agricultural Trade Intelligence Network of the Eastern Africa Grain Council, in May a tonne of maize in Kenya was selling at between Sh56,045 and Sh85,068 in the wholesale and retail market, respectively. In Uganda, the same quantity was retailing at between Sh56,761 and Sh51,085. While in Tanzania, traders are selling it at between Sh55,097 and Sh68,871. Interim head of Sugar Directorate Solomon Odera said the food prices were the highest the country has experienced in five years. “The price of basic commodities such as maize and milk has increased significantly due to drought-related factors. However, the 2011 drought situation was more severe than this year, but the food prices did not escalate this much,” he said Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe had earlier said that after every five years, the country struggles with extreme weather conditions, which have a huge impact on the food balance sheet. “The effects of climate change are real and in every four-five years cycle, we have to face an extreme drought. The rising temperature coupled with new crop diseases and pests will to a large extent restrain food production, leading to famine,” he said. Njagi said the interaction between drought, policy and markets has been the major cause of high commodity prices in Kenya. “In the next one year, the purchasing power of consumers will be interrupted as the cost of production is expected to remain high, while food productivity will be low,” he said. Njagi said the country’s food production trend has been declining in the last two years, owing to numerous gaps along the value chain.  Also Read:Lenku calls for drought aid as people starve and cattle perish