Machakos county returning officer Joyce Wamalwa has admitted in court that there were discrepancies in the results declared for the August 8 governor race, but said they could not undermine the overall outcome. Wiper candidate Wavinya Ndeti challenged Governor Alfred Mutua’s victory and wants it nullified. She said the election was marred by irregularities and Mutua was not validly elected. Wamalwa said on Friday, “There were some discrepancies in the results entered in one or two forms and in others the presiding officers did not sign, but the variances could not significantly affect the overall outcome of the results.” She denied knowledge of some county officials having worked as presiding officers, saying she did not know all presiding officers. “We had 1,332 polling stations in the county and couldn’t know all the presiding officers who worked in those polling stations,” Wamalwa said. “No one made any formal complaint with me that county employees were picked as presiding officers.” Ndeti’s lawyer Willis Otieno took the witness to task when he demanded she explain why the Kangundo constituency returning officer declared results using forms 38A meant for the senatorial race. Also in question was the form used to declare the results for Machakos constituency, “as it lacked the commission’s serial number”. A heated exchange arose between the petitioner and respondents’ lawyers when Otieno sought to know from Wamalwa whether the presiding officers who declared Masinga and Yatta constituencies were the ones gazetted by the IEBC. Otieno said the results for Masinga were declared by one Lucy Mueni John, whereas the officer gazetted as the constituency returning officer was one Nicholus Karimi. But IEBC lawyer Kimani Muhoro was quick to interject, saying, despite the gazettement done by the commission on May 5, some changes were made. The case will continue on January 8 next year. Read: Wavinya rejects Machakos results, Mutua says he did not bribe anyone Also Read:Governor Mutua’s lawyers withdraw from Wavinya’s petition, cites frustrations by judge Click here for latest political news      