Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o suffered a setback on Wednesday after a court stopped the relocation of Kachok dumpsite. The relocation to Kajulu area in Kisumu East constituency was one of Nyong'o's flagship projects. The respondents in the case are Kisumu county, Doris Ombara and NAYA Holdings in that order. Fredrick Nyesi and Rose Nyanjong had filed an application for the Environment and Lands High Court to issue conservatory orders restraining operations by the respondents, through their employees or officers. The respondents were stopped from commencing transfer of solid waste from the site to the abandoned Kisumu concrete quarry pit in Mamboleo. The application was on grounds that the county, through Ombara, irregularly awarded a tender for the relocation of waste from Kachok for Sh99.25 million. This is said to have been done without adherence to laws including Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015. The petitioners also the process was done in secrecy and that stakeholders were not consulted.  They further noted the quarry is located less than 200m from River Kibos so there is a serious risk of seepage of toxic substances into water used for domestic purposes. They said that with the relocation, Mamboleo residents will be exposed to health hazards yet they have a right to a clean and health environment. More on this: Shifting dumpsite from Kisumu to new Kajulu site raises a stink Also read: Hurdles in Nyong’o attempt to move ‘Mt Ranguma’ Nyesi and Nyanjong also said the county government and Ombara awarded the tender to NAYA Holdings without carrying out environmental impact assessment. Geoffrey Yogi, who represented the county, told the court the application was premature since the procedure for acquiring a NEMA licence was still on. NAYA representative Bruce Odeny said the public participation process was ongoing and that the National Environment Management Authority would handle complaints. "The award of a tender does not mean commencement of work," he said. Judge SM Kibunja granted the petitioners' prayer pending the hearing and determination of the case. Kibunja noted this did not, in any way, stop or stay the processing of any application for approvals or reports that are required in law. He gave the petitioners seven days to file and serve affidavits and written submissions on their notice of motion. “The third respondent should file and serve written submissions with seven days and all parties served should also file and serve their [documents] within seven days." The case will resume on January 18. Click here for the latest political stories