Uasin Gishu county has suspended 42 revenue officers over loss of money during the election period. Finance chief officer Peter Chesos on Friday confirmed that the officers have been sent home to facilitate investigations. Most of the money was from the Parking department. “We have given them letters to explain why they should not be disciplined over the financial malpractices,” Chesos said. The revenue officers are suspected to have given fake bank slips indicating they had deposited money collected, but the cash was never taken to the banks. The theft is suspected to have taken place between July, August, September and October. “We suspect they took advantage of the election period to diverse revenue,” Chesos said. He said so far they have established more than Sh4 million is missing. Investigations are ongoing to determine the full extent of the loss.  The incident comes less than a week after Governor Jackson Mandago warned that he would be more stringent in the war on corruption. He warned that he would sack his executives and staff who would attempt to sabotage his work through non-performance. Mandago said his wish is to leave a legacy of good work at the end of his term.  The executives are vital in helping him to deliver on his promises to the electorate, the governor said. The county boss said the new county ministers were given a unique opportunity and they have no choice other than to be useful at work. He said the executives would be held responsible for any failures in their dockets. “This time everyone has to do their work, and if the county assembly recalls any of you because of non-performance, I will approve that,” Mandago said.  He said those who feel unable to work should resign and go home.  Mandago said the executives would be assessed every three months and that they must engage the public on a daily basis, instead of sitting in the county offices. “If I go out there and discover that people do not know you as a county executive that will be an automatic ticket to sack you because it will show you are not in touch with the residents,” Mandago said. He said his previous executives wasted time in offices and later campaigned against him during the election. “Some of them could not even give a lift to any resident of the county in the official cars. It was easier for residents to access me but not the executives,” Mandago said.  The governor said too much politics delayed county operations, but all programmes would run smoothly starting January. “We must now move forward as a county and avoid waste of time on political gossip,” said Mandago.The governor sacked eight of the executives who served in his first term and retained only two. He says those he fired underperformed.