Questions were yesterday raised over the criteria used to select people who receive state honours. Many Kenyans were left with more questions than answers on outstanding contributions the individuals have made to deserve the Head of State Commendation under the civilian category. Kenyans blasted President Uhuru Kenyatta on social media for belittling the national awards by rewarding political loyalists. However, Uhuru, in a gazette notice dated December 12, defended his decision to recognise the beneficiaries during the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebration. “In recognition of distinguished and outstanding services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities, I, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya andCommander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya confer Awards and Honours to the following persons...” read the gazette notice. Those rewarded include Martin Kamotho alias Githeriman - who came into limelight during the August 8 poll and bloggers Pauline Njoroge and Robert Alai. Others were director digital and diaspora communication at State House Dennis Itumbi, Citizen reporter Jackie Maribe and radio presenter Njogu Njoroge. Billy Arocho, the President’s close ally, televangelists Teresia Wairimu and Lucy Ngunjiri, who have been leading prayers during the Head of State’s functions, including campaigns, gospel singers Smith Roy Mwita alias Rufftone, and Ben Githae were also rewarded. The law stipulates that the President awards national honours to persons, “who have exhibited or exhibit exemplary qualities, actions or achievements of heroism, sacrifice, bravery, patriotism or leadership for defence, benefit or betterment of the country or a county.” The law also states that the person should have made an exemplary contribution to the country or a county in the economic, social, scientific, academic, public administration, governance, sports, journalism, business, security, among other fields. “...A state officer or public officer who has made an exemplary contribution to the betterment of the national or county governments, the executive, the judiciary, the legislature, an independent commission or an independent office,” the guiding law says. It adds that the person also must have brought honour, glory or pride to Kenya. Uhuru conferred the Controller of Budget Lucy Ndung’u and KBC cameraman Victor Munyakane – who rescued a disabled streetboy from being bitten by bees – with the Civilian commendation. Former IEBC Voter Registration director Immacuilate Kassait was conferred with Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, were conferred with the Order of Golden Heart.