Tension is high in Baringo North subcounty, after 20 suspected armed Pokot bandits on Tuesday raided Kagir and stole 77 heads of cattle belonging to 12 Tugen families. The heavily armed bandits surrounded the Rapid Deployment Unit camp in Kagir at 2.30pm and forced the unarmed herders to surrender the cows before driving them towards Chepirmok and Chesirimion villages in Tiaty subcounty. "There was confusion during the shootout, people were injured as they ran for safety. Police's attempt to repulse the bandits did not bear fruits" Richard Chepchomei,a resident, said. RDU together with the National Police Reservists pursued the attackers did not manage to recover the livestock or catch any of the bandits. The stolen cows belong to Rael Akeno, William Kibet, Solomon Chemitei, Morop Kandagor, Ringoi Ruto, Jackson Keitany, Kiplal Karanja, Chepkok Kiburet, Thomas Kibet,Chepsigor Elijah, Mark Temo and Nabarok Chepkangor. The incident occurred barely a week after 40 suspected armed Pokot bandits attacked Chemoe surrounding Anti-Stock Theft Unit camp, before making away with 38 heads of cattle belonging to three families. Chepchomei urged the government to assist recover the animals, saying the bandits are known, or residents shall be tempted to think police are colluding with the bandits. He appealed for regular security patrols along the porous borders of Baringo North and Tiaty subcounties to stop more attacks. Yatya location chief Jackson Keitany confirmed the incident, saying no one lost life during the attack. Keitany said people had just settled in the area with their livestock after camping at Yatya Primary School since March, fearing attacks by armed bandits. "More than 100 families are contemplating fleeing the area fearing for more attacks by the armed Pokot bandits" Keitany said. "We are going to deploy enough security officers to not only conduct constant patrols along these porous borders but also to search the culprits into their hideouts, arrest them and arraign them in court" Rift Valley regional coordinator, Wanyama Musiambo, said. "As government we cannot relent until it gets rid of the armed bandits and seize all illegal firearms possessed by the civilians" he said. This comes as farmers in the county were preparing for Kimalel goat auction scheduled to take place today. During the event, 2000 goats are expected to be sold. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto among other dignitaries are expected to attend.