Legal challenges
to the 2017 presidential election have come to an end. This is an irrefutable
fact. Indeed the same Chief Justice (David Maraga) who nullified President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s August 8 election presided over the official swearing-in ceremony
last Tuesday. One is reminded of the legal maxim that all litigation must come
to an end. In the instant case the end to litigation may not be as desired by
the opposition coalition NASA. But is this not true of all litigation in our adversarial
legal system?  Did Uhuru not suffer the indignity of being sworn in by persons
he described as “wakora?” Invariably there has to be a winner and a loser. In
postmortem NASA needs to interrogate the advice of their legal team not to
challenge the election as this turned out to be their Achilles heel. Opposition leader Raila Odinga has adopted a combative stance and has declared an
intention to stage an alternative swearing-in ceremony on December 12. This may not be an idle boast and he may indeed follow up and be
sworn in as the “People’s President”. It goes without saying that Raila is a
very courageous individual and has every intention of taking the battle to
Jubilee’s front yard.  He is raw and sore about a fourth election defeat
at the hands of people he believes have perfected the art of manipulating the
electoral system.  Swearing himself in will be a form of redemption. It may
appease his followers and keep the dream of secession on track. This, I daresay,
is reckless and not grounded in the law/Constitution.  As Kenya’s greatest and foremost defender of
the Constitution, Raila ought to re-examine his current stance. In acting
against the Constitution he would be playing into the very hands of those he has
accused, and often correctly so, of acting unconstitutionally. Thus his
credentials as defender of the Constitution could go up in smoke!  Jubilee, who
are still smarting from the historic and unprecedented election annulment, would
love to trash those credentials. It would be unwise for Raila to hand Jubilee a
rope to hang him. Why would he want to do that when he still has options?
Swearing in should be a final “kamikaze” move when he is out of options. NASA leaders
should look at the bigger picture and pursue constitutional change and rectification
of the electoral system. Raila can harness and redirect his exceptional
energies to this cause. Almost all Kenyans are in agreement that the 2010
Constitution is faulty. The IEBC’s current framework is an unmitigated disaster
and is casually used and abused by those who have mastered election
manipulation.  NASA has the opportunity to bequeath Kenya with a new constitutional order, complete with an independent electoral commission. Why
should the IEBC servers be based in France, a foreign country?  NASA can revisit
the Bomas draft constitution and either adopt it or create a hybrid. The
current winner-take-all Constitution is polarising the country in dangerous
fashion.  Admittedly all this will take time and require a referendum, but this
is the price that great leaders pay. Raila would then go down as the champion and
foremost defender of the Constitution.  Under the current Constitution Cabinet
Secretaries are not accountable to Parliament and it's little wonder that some
have engaged in looting of public funds with impunity. The current setup that
requires them to account to committees promotes corruption as they steal more
to accommodate committee members. The bottom line
however is that Raila may not realistically become President and perhaps he should
change focus. Why is this so difficult to comprehend or contemplate? Did he not
say that he was expending his last bullet prior to the election?  By bequeathing
Kenya a Parliamentary system and an electoral commission that does not lead us
to war he will be greater than any President, past. present or future.    