Was there a protocol hitch at State House during the luncheon that took place after the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday? A mole who attended the colourful event that was attend by a number of foreign heads of state and government has whispered to Corridors that a number of senior government officials, MPs and governors could not find where to sit. The MPs, who were ferried from Parliament Buildings to State House in a common bus, were stranded for over 30 minutes before they could secure where to sit. Some legislators are said to have opted to walk out in protest. ***** Some of the presidential contenders in the 2017 elections have been meeting to plan how they can reach President Uhuru Kenyatta for direct talks and chat about their role in the polls. Sources whisper to Corridors their decision to run for the seat was well planned and executed, with the blessings of the high office and with a plan to help the President in the end. But some are now outraged they were never invited to his Inauguration. Those who attended have not been told the way forward. They want the President to call them for a talk, given his handlers have now reportedly blocked their attempts to meet him. Only time will tell whether Uhuru will hear them out. ***** A second term MP from Western is in a vicious fight with his mother over land. Reason? It is said the elderly mother sold the land to a third party but hardly had she started the process of transferring it, than the legislator opposed the sale. Instead, the vocal MP went and identified a new buyer, sold the land and used all the money during the campaigns for the August General Election. The family that initially bought the land is now contemplating suing the MP, unless he reverses the sale or returns their money. ***** Jubilee Party’s nomination of former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae and radio queen Doris Donya to the East African Legislative Assembly has complicated the ruling party’s matrix in the Gusii region. Jubilee honchos from Nyamira county are said to be grumbling over their exclusion from the list, despite some of them having been promised slots. One of the politicians from the county, who was initially shortlisted for the plum job, was yesterday overhead vowing that Jubilee would lose significant backing in Nyamira should MPs approve the list as currently constituted. Why is President Uhuru Kenyatta quiet about these political games to outdo each other in Gusii? Click here for the latest political news 