Former world marathon record holder and National Olympic Committee of Kenya president Paul Tergat has urged sports journalists in Africa to play a leading role in the fight against bad governance and cheating in sports. Speaking during the AIPS Congress in Nairobi yesterday, Tergat also called on the journalists to protect and build sports in the continent.  “We have to continue talking and standing firm against things that can destroy what we have tirelessly worked so hard to build over the years including corruption and doping,” said Tergat. He said doping is such a dark spot in the sporting industry both locally and globally. “This is why, among other goals, fighting doping is high on my agenda as the president of Nock. It’s something that I have been against as an athlete and will be steadfast to fight as an administrator. The media will be equally on hand in this noble fight, including protecting clean sports people,” said Tergat. “For now, it is my desire that even as we plan for the upcoming major international assignments, we are going to witness athletes who compete fairly and clean.” “I am going, together with my team at Nock to collaborate robustly with various agencies mandated to combat cheating in sports. Education and awareness is one of the most effective means and we shall exploit this window fully,” said Tergat. Addressing journalists from the over 30 countries at the Congress, the Nock supremo recognized the important role sports journalists play to promote, publicize and preserve the sanctity of sport. “I am a product of the sports media who covered my numerous races and told my story, wrote and broadcast to the world my joys and, even disappointments,” Tergat said. Tergat also underscored the need to enhance and diversify Kenyan sports sector to increase the chances of winning medals at the global front, starting with Tokyo 2020 and Paris 2024 Olympics.  With you, my friends in the media as partners, I believe we shall be able to mobilize sufficient resources to enable us build a formidable Team Kenya from various sports in future Olympics,” he observed.