Unscrupulous business people have been smuggling in disabled persons from Tanzania to beg on the streets in Kiambu, a local MCA has said. Nominated MCA for persons with disability Priscilla Nyokabi wants police to arrest “such heartless business people”. She said there is a need for a comprehensive assessment and audit of the disabled persons in this country. “Kiambu has enough resources to fund all activities, but the looming smuggling of disabled persons from Tanzania and other counties has devastated our activities,” Nyokabi said. “We are making a move to audit disabled persons in the county to help us budget for their activities.” Thika, Ruiru and Juja are the most affected. The number of beggars in the towns has increased. Nyokabi challenged parents not to hide their children with physical and mental disability. She said Kiambu county sets aside Sh50 million each year to fund activities for people living with a disability. “We want disabled persons to register with the National Council For Persons With Disabilities to access the money,” Nyokabi said. Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba admonished the coldhearted Kenyans involved in smuggling disabled persons from Tanzania and other neighbouring countries, saying the government will take stern action against them. “I condemn those inhuman individuals who bask disabled people on the streets to beg money for them. We have information that most of the street beggars, especially in Thika and Ruiru, are imported. We will work together with police to ensure they are arrested and prosecuted,” Wamuchomba said. The woman representative urged the government to construct more educational facilities for disabled people. She said most of them are unable to access education because of scarce institutions. “I urge the government to consider building more boarding facilities for the disabled. Kiambu has only two facilities which are already congested. Now that disabled persons cannot be enrolled in a day school, most of them have opted to remain at home,” she said. Wamuchomba urged the disabled to form cluster groups to benefit from affirmative action funds and national funds for the disabled. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura urged the government to consider synchronising disabled persons’ cards with NHIF cards. “I have moved a motion in the Senate to compel the government to provide free NHIF covers to persons living with disability,” he said.