Ships calling at the Port of Mombasa will be required to switch off diesel-operated engines and power their auxiliaries using the electricity provided at the berths, the Kenya Ports Authority has said. This is part of an elaborate Green Port policy aimed at enhancing environmental care at the port and its environs.  Auxiliary diesel generators that power ships are a primary source of harmful air emissions because they run on heavy fuel oil. KPA managing director Catherine Mturi on Wednesday said the authority is implementing projects that will reduce the carbon footprint progressively. Among these projects is cold ironing, which refers to the provision of shore power to ships calling at the Kilindini harbour. “This will require ships to switch off the diesel-operated engines,” Mturi said in a speech read on her behalf by KPA general manager Adraya Dena.  He was at the opening of the first regional workshop of Maritime Technology Cooperation Centre-Africa at Whitesands Hotel, Mombasa. Cold ironing mitigates harmful emissions from diesel engines by connecting a ship’s load to a more environmentally friendly, shore-based source of electrical power, Marine experts say. An alternative is to run auxiliary diesels either on gas or extra low sulphur distillate fuels. However, if noise pollution is a problem, then cold ironing becomes the only option. To achieve this project, the KPA management said it has constructed power substations at the port, ready to connect to the berths and power the vessels. “We have made special provisions in all designs for new facilities at the port. The same will be applied in all ports in Kenya to accommodate cold ironing,” she said. Mturi said KPA is aware of existing challenges. “It will, therefore, be interesting for us to learn from other experiences across the globe on this venture, and appreciate the regulations,” she added. The MD said the ports authority is tapping alternative and clean energy sources to supplement the use of electricity in Mombasa. “Already ongoing are various studies aimed at embracing solar power for use within the Mombasa port.”