Uchumi Supermarket’s recovery plan has received a shot in the arm after the government released the second bunch of its Sh1.8 billion bailout. The acting head of marketing at Uchumi Supermarkets, Henry Bett, told the Star yesterday the retailer received Sh700 million on December 1 for restocking. “This brings the total cash received from the government to Sh1.2 billion, considering that the first Sh500 million was released in January this year. The remaining Sh600 million meant for re-entry to the Uganda and Tanzania markets will only happen when Kenya has stabilised,’’ said Bett. Even so, when the Star visited the retailer’s branch at the busy Sarit Centre Mall in Westlands, Nairobi, most shelves were still empty as has been the case for almost 11 months. ‘’I can barely get half the items on my shopping list from this store. Am forced to drive to across the road to Naivas to complete my shopping because the neighbouring Nakumatt Junction is not different either,’’ a disgruntled customer complained. We counted 19 packets of two-kilogramme sugar, 24 packets of two-kilogramme maize flour and less than three dozen packets of wheat flour. Only the electronics section was full as normal. After posting an after-tax loss of Sh2.8 billion in 2016 , the retailer successfully lobbied for a government bailout of Sh1.8 billion to support its operations which was to be disbursed in three instalments of Sh500 million, Sh700 million and Sh600 million before the end of this year. However, the listed retailer is said to have failed to furnish the government with a clear recovery plan, an aspect that stalled the reimbursement process. Its turnaround CEO Julius Kipng’etich has also left the company, throwing the recovery efforts into further disarray.  Uchumi was to submit a detailed audit of how the management was going to handle the cash and a full and convincing explanation of how the money would be used to revive the company based on past experiences where state funding did not improve cash flows as expected. Cabinet Secretary for Industry, Trade and Co-operatives Adan Mohamed recently told a local daily that the remaining Sh600 million would be released by the government depending on the success of the restructuring plan, which is already behind schedule. In August this year, the retailer notified the public of a strategic investor who was to pump in Sh3.5 billion in exchange for a stake within 120 days. The period lapsed unsuccessfully at the beginning of this month.