Universities staff are demanding suspension of MMUST VC Frederick Ochieng over abuse of office and corruption. They have accused the university council chaired by Dr Jeremy Bundi of refusing to relieve Ochieng of his duties. Secretary-General Charles Mukhwaya said the EACC found the VC culpable of the offences on November 10.   Read: EACC wants Masinde Muliro VC suspended over funds misuse, abuse of office   The anti-graft agency CEO Halakhe Waqo signed the letter that said Ochieng was also interfering with active investigations. "The allegations were made two years ago and the commission found him answerable last month," Mukhwaya said on Saturday at a press conference in Mombasa. He demanded an in-depth investigation as Ochieng's freedom erodes the integrity of the office he's holding. The SG alleged the VC might be destroying evidence as he prolongs his stay. "Why is he clinging in the office up to now? He must vacate office now. We don't want to reach a point of removing him forcefully," Mukhwaya said. The SG said constitutionalism - which demands a step down in case of a query - must be upheld. EACC recommended Ochieng's suspension over alleged abuse of office, embezzlement of funds and employment irregularities. Waqo said the suspension was premised on the professor's intimidation of staff involved in the probe through transfers, demotions, interdictions and dismissals. "Further, he has threatened to victimise whoever gives information as he continues to engage in corrupt practices, abuse of office and unethical behaviour in trying to cover up for the past vices and prevent our investigators from obtaining documents from the institution directly or indirectly," Waqo said then. Mukhwaya also said universities will not heed Education CS Fred Matiang'i's policy suspending employment on permanent and pensionable terms. He said the directive is "unconsulted, nugatory, irrelevant and inconsequential". "We will not allow any of our members to be employed on contract basis. That was a roadside declaration," he said, adding the minister violated the law. "The constitution says there has to be public participation before any decision is reached. whom did he consult?" The SG said they are ready to "fight if that's what Matiang'i want". "We are arming ourselves." The CS said the policy takes effect immediately and new staff will get the contract from January.   Click here for the latest political news 