Public forests are undergoing a renaissance after six years of the government replanting indigenous trees. Since the replanting campaign was started through Community Forest Associations, illegal logging of trees has declined. Moreover, a change of forest management strategy by the Kenya Forest Service has helped it increase indigenous tree growth. All these efforts aim to restore the glory of public forests, which the ecosystem lost when a lot of trees were felled by illegal loggers. The logging threatened to dry up rivers sources in highland forests and reduce rainfall. Wild animals were not spared, either, as they were forced to migrate to other areas in search of greener pastures. In Kiambu county, members of the Uplands CFA in Lari constituency each plant a tree every week in the forest. “This is an effort we all agreed on to ensure the natural forest environment is restored,” member John Mwathi said. The CFA Act empowers members to help the government protect public forests and benefit in return. “We cultivate, graze and fetch firewood from the forest as we protect trees from illegal logging as well as restrain bad activities from happening inside the forests,” Mwathi said. “There are people who tend to throw garbage in the forest. This is forest pollution. We have prevented it from happening here at Uplands.”  Replaced shamba system KFS deputy chief conservator Charity Muthoni says a lot of issues changed when the Forest Act was enacted in 2005, forming the CFAs. The Shamba System was banned due to poor working relationship between the government and the community. Environmental rights groups and Nobel laureate Wangare Maathai fought for the scrapping of the Shamba System since it was helping loggers to carry out illegal activities. Consultations with environmental organisations, government officials and experts led to the formation of the Plantation Establishment for Livelihood Improvement Systems. Pelis was created to ensure CFAs help cultivate planted seedlings and protect trees and wild bushes in forests. The programme was laid down and it has left a big impact on the community and the KFS, since it cuts the cost of plantation establishment by 75 per cent. Muthoni says it is successful because once people are allocated land, the CFA, KFS, well-wishers, donors and environmentalists come to plant seedlings in the already cultivated lands. “When the farmers are tilling their food crops, they till and take care of the trees until they are fully grown. Trees, unlike other crops, need to be protected and taken care of,” she said. “Many CFA members and residents are entitled to these pieces of land, as long as they will be properly registered by the KFS.”  Muthoni said the members are normally allocated between half an acre and a minimum of a quarter of an acre. How CFAs work  Pelis chairman at Uplands forest John Njane said the CFA has different departments, where members are selected to oversee. These are Pelis, grazing, water, tourism and firewood. He said the community has benefitted a lot from Pelis since it has created jobs for casual labourers, increased food production and boosted framing as a trade. “There are so many plot owners who only visit their farms to see how they are progressing. They hire casuals,” Njane said. “A lot of food products harvested here are sold as they are perishable, and people have made a lot of money, while those which are not perishable, are stored for future use.” Njane said his committee visits all plots to ensure trees plated are well taken care of. “When we note that they are uprooted or are not taken care of by being cultivated, we suspend the member and the plot is allocated to another willing member or a resident, provided he or she is registered,” he said. Njane said there are over 1,000 members of the public who have benefitted from the plots, and trees are growing. “We leave tilling of those lands when the trees are above 6 feet, that is probably after three to four years. We are allocated to another area,” he said. Member Rebecca Mumbi said she has a quarter acre, where she grows kales, spinach and potatoes. “These food crops do well because this area has fertile soil, and its weather is neither too hot nor too cold, which is favourable for their growth,” she said. “While the trees are growing, they do not need tall food crops such as maize plantations. As for now, I have grown kales, which I normally harvest five bags after every two weeks.” The 36-year-old single mother of two said she uses the money to educate and feed her children. Uplands forest station manager Carol Njeru said the CFA officials have planted nurseries of different trees at their homes and at their plots in the forest. Njeru, also a KFS service officer, said the CFAs sell the seedlings to companies, institutions and groups of people and individuals who come to plant trees in the forest. “The CFAs sell the seedlings and earn some money that motivates them. They also help them plant, assuring them they will protect them,” Njeru said. She urged beneficiaries to plant trees even at their homes, to help improve rainfall. “This region used to have a lot of rainfall. As of now, the rains reduced regardless of it being fertile, but the rains can be attracted again by planting more indigenous tall trees,” she said. Njeru praised CFAs and residents for their efforts towards protecting the environment. “They normally attend our meetings. No one wants to miss anything we are discussing. They are eager to ensure they have played a role in forest conservation,” she said. Njeru said her office has embarked on a campaign to urge the society to plant indigenous trees. The drive takes place in barazas, churches and shopping centres. Monkey menace  Njane said the challenge they face in the forest is monkeys, baboons and porcupines eating their food crops. “They like carrots, potatoes and cabbages. We do not kill them. We only erect scarecrows, and they work in scaring and keeping them away. We have never heard of any wild animal killed by one of us,” he said. Mwathi said no cattle unknown to the association are allowed to graze in the forest. “We have agreed that even cattle of non-association residents can be grazed inside the forest, but they have to register. We help the KFS to identify the cattle being grazed,” he said. People living near forests have developed an attitude of protecting the environment, according to the Kijabe Environment Volunteers Organisation. Former group chairman David Kuria, now the Kiambu Water executive, said CFAs have taken up the task seriously, ensuring trees are even grown at their farms. “We have been training CFAs and the community on the importance of conserving the environment. Residents of this area usually follow what they are being trained on, regardless of being members or not. Basically because this area is covered by forest,” he said. Kuria said when CFAs are replacing officials, they should elect people who are serious about environmental conservation to avoid politicising issues. “A lot of CFAs who elected officials based on seeing them haven’t achieved anything. But those who elected officials who are serious with the environmental issues have seen them replanting trees, which are now grown in large hectares,” Kuria said. Assistant county commissioner Carol Chepkemoi praised the working relations between the CFA and KFS. “We work very closely with CFAs and the KFS because all they do is offer security to trees,” she said. “Whenever they find law offenders, they bring them to us and we deal with them legally. Ours is to ensure there is security all the time and we have done it.”  