Foreign Affairs PS Monica Juma left for Juba on Tuesday morning to secure the release of four Kenyans who were jailed in South Sudan. Sources at the Office of the President said the release follows bilateral talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his South Sudan counterpart Salver Kiir. The two held talks at State House a day after Uhuru was inaugurated for a second term. Kiir was among the 12 heads of state who attended the ceremony. Read: Uhuru meets Xi Jinping's rep, Salva Kiir on day one of second term It is yet to be established whether Anthony Keya, Boniface Muriuki, Ravi Ghaghda and Anthony Mwadime will be tried afresh after they arrive in the country. They were arrested on May 29, 2015, alongside 12 others - mostly South Sudanese nationals, and jailed for suspected fraud. They were convicted of stealing Sh1.4 billion ($14 million) from President Salva Kiir’s office. The suspects were held for more than 40 days without being interrogated. One was later released but his colleagues were rearrested and held for another six months before they were charged. Juma left with a delegation comprising individuals from the Office of the president, NIS and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. While in detention, the suspects, who were employees of Juba-based Click Technologies, were not allowed to contact their relatives in Kenya. The firm specialises in graphic design, sales and computer repairs. In March, Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed refuted claims the government had abandoned the four. She told Parliament that she would follow up the matter but the families of the four said no action had been taken. The ministry said via twitter: "It is not true that the [South Sudan four] have been ignored." It added that it has been following the proceedings keenly but "cannot prosecute the case in public at the risk of jeopardising negotiations and an appeal pending at the Juba High Court." Read: Four Kenyans jailed in South Sudan not abandoned - Foreign Affairs ministry Also Read: Four Kenyans still in South Sudan prison despite ruling quashing 72-year jail term Click here for the latest political stories