In a bid to avoid the scenes of fighting relegation as witnessed last season, Mathare United have embarked on major surgery of the playing unit and have already send five players packing  Those shown the door are Harrison Mwendwa, Brian Nyakan, Musa Oundo, Victor Ashinga and Francis Liyayi. The five were deemed surplus to requirement and were poised to pave way for new signings who will be seeking to compete for the first silverware in ten years. Francis Kimanzi guided Mathare United to clinching the 2008 Kenyan Premier League title and come next year, the tactician will be fighting to win his second in a space of ten years. The slum boys have so far brought in former Green Commandos goalkeeper Job Ochieng who was previously part of the club’s youth side and Modern Coast midfielder Francis Omondi. Ochieng is set to battle it out with Levis Opiyo and Mark Kioko in the absence of first choice goalkeeper Wycliffe Kasaya who underwent a surgery hence a lengthy lay off. The club confirmed the exit of the five with Mwendwa having left following the expiry of his contract and so was Posta Rangers loanee Brian Nyakan. Immediate former Thika United midfielder Victor Ashinga, Musa Oundo and Francis Liyali, formerly of Nairobi Regional League side, Kenafric are also on their way out. Five out. “The club has parted ways with Frank Liyayi, Victor Ashinga, Brian Nyakan and Musa Oundo on mutual consent. Harrison Mwendwa will also not be part of the team next season following the expiry of his contract which will not be renewed,” read a statement from the club.  Elsewhere, Gor Mahia have captured the signature of Kakamega Homeboyz and Kenyan International centre half Charles Momanyi. The defender, who was part of the Harambee Stars squad which won the just concluded Cecafa Senior Challenge, joined Gor and is set to fight for starting berths alongside the club’s duo of Musa Mohammed and Harun Shakava. He will also find tough competition from Joachim Oluoch. Gor raided Homeboyz seeking to strengthen their squad for the upcoming Premier League, KPL top eight and the CAFC Champions League. Momanyi was instrumental for Mike Mururi’s side, where Homeboyz finished third behind Gor and Posta Rangers in leaking goals. Momanyi joined the club’s left back Erick Ambunya who had earlier on left for Tusker FC.