 Many employees in Kenya are not satisfied with their current jobs, with a new survey indicating that 80 per cent of the respondents intend to leave their jobs in the next 12 months. Another 18 per cent of those polled said they will leave current employers in the next two to five years, according to the survey conducted in September by the Trends and Insights for Africa. The TIFA report showed that the top three factors that contribute to most employees leaving include a search for better pay which stood at 76 per cent respondents, lack of career progression at 54 per cent, and lack of job security at 35 per cent. “You get to realise that most of the employees are looking for better pay especially the young generation who are after the renumeration and benefits and when the salary increment is not great, they opt to leave and search for better paying jobs” TIFA research chief executive officer Maggie Ireri said. As per those interviewed, the top list of the items that matter most to jobseekers include renumeration and benefits, followed by career progression, conducive work environment and job security. These factors matter more for the employees’ happiness and retention. The report also showed that only five per cent of the sample, comprising 1,078 respondents, intend to stay at their current jobs with the top two reasons being that they had a salary review recently (69 per cent respondents), or got a promotion (64 per cent). The survey further showed that there are low employee engagement levels, with only 35 per cent of the respondents saying they are motivated to do the best for their organisations. “Employees are not fully committed or enthusiastic about their work and fail to take positive action to further the organization’s reputation and interests,” the report reads in part. The findings revealed that there is 27 per cent engagement in the market for the employed jobseeker with the target expected to be at 65 per cent. “27 per cent engagement level is really low for the current market. For you to have a productive workforce the employee engagement level is expected to be above 65 per cent and this will contribute to better productivity,” Ireri said.