 Sixteen women from Murang’a and Nairobi counties have narrated harrowing details of harassment, intimidation, bribery and abuse during the 2017 general election. Women who contested various political seats said they they came face to face with patriarchy in their quest for political offices. Naomi Muli said she was twice kidnapped. Muli was vying for the Carlifornia Ward seat in Kamukunji constituency, Nairobi. She said insecurity largely affected her campaigns. Read : Women targetted in spate of violence that followed declaration of poll results On the day she was kidnapped, two women approached her on her way home from school. They called her name and she thought they were her supporters. But things changed when she stopped to engage them. "I felt a sharp object by my side followed by a chilling command that I follow them to a waiting vehicle. The vehicle then drove off," Muli said. Her abductors told her to drop her bid to become area MCA. "They asked me to chose between life and being an MCA," Muli said. The women who had lured her to the trap masked their faces wore mask and that the driver of the vehicle also disguised his face. She was later dumped in Ndumberi in Kiambu county. She said the experience left her too shaken to mount any meaningful campaign. “I reported the matter to police but no action was taken," Muli said. She said the incident forced her to relocate from her house. "Thugs burglarised my new house and attacked my daughter," She said. "Even after nominations, I was again kidnapped and left in an unfamiliar place in Kitengela and warned against campaigning," she added. Read : Protect women against rape ahead of next week's polls - human rights group Her experience, she said, did not stop her from pursuing her dream. She remained determined, shunning fear because "freedom can never be given but must be taken". Muli’s experience is part of many stories documented in a publication by the Community Education and Empowerment Centre. The publication, which was launched yesterday at a Nairobi Hotel, chronicles the experiences of 16 women aspirants from Murang’a and Nairobi counties, during the primaries and the general election. The women also gave accounts of electoral irregularities and malpractices they were subjected to, which they said made the playing field uneven. They also narrated how their parties failed to uphold their promises to increase women participation in political leadership. Laini Saba MCA Cecilia Achieng said she came face to face with male chauvinism in the Kenyan political playing field. Men despise women while patriarchy is still held in high regard. "I was called a prostitute many times as we campaigned for nomination. My campaign team was attacked by hired gangs in attempts to force me to drop my bid," Achieng said. Her campaign materials were also snatched from her supporters. She did not get any financial support from her party - ODM. “My lesson is that running a political campaign remains an uphill task for women because of male domination of party politics and the contempt for women in our society,” Achieng said They blamed the IEBC and office of the registrar of political parties for laxity in playing their oversight role. They want the electoral agency to remain non-partisan and severely punish officials found colluding with political competitors. Political parties were urged to develop mechanisms for financing female candidates because of their their historical disadvantage. In addition, security agencies were also asked to create hotlines to be used to report incidences of insecurity for fast action during elections. “Party officials were complicit in bribery and awarding of nomination certificates to those who paid more. I was utterly disillusioned,” said Halima Ibrahim. She vied for the Eastleigh South Ward seat. She said her Muslim community has negative attitudes towards women, something she said her competitors capitalised on. Hooligans also disrupted most of her rallies, she said. Click here for more political stories