NASA has expressed fears that the number of deaths from this year’s post-election police brutality meted out on its supporters might increase. NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for his silence over the police brutality and killings. Raila spoke at the City Mortuary, Nairobi, where he consoled families of 16 victims whose bodies were to be transported upcountry for burial. Read: Boy, 14, shot dead at home as police control Homa Bay crowd “It is sad that since these killings started, nobody from the government has consoled the bereaved families. The government has not apologised for the killings,” Raila said. He called for compensation to the families. Most of the victims were either shot or succumbed to deep cuts. NASA official Patrick Lumumba said the number of deaths could increase because some “seriously brutalised victims” were still in hospital. Lumumba was overseeing the postmortem done by Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor. He said 10 of the 16 victims were shot. Eleven bodies were removed from the City Mortuary, three from Chiromo and two from Kenyatta Hospital. “We still have people who were shot in hospitals. Some of them are still nursing serious injuries, meaning the death toll could increase,” Lumumba said. He said 29 bodies had been removed from Nairobi morgues for burial in the Western and Nyanza regions since November 30. “NASA contribution to families of victims has been marvelous. The alliance is paying mortuary bills, buying coffins, facilitating transport and giving Sh50, 000 to every affected family,” Lumumba said. Read: Cop among four injured in Mathare anti-election protests Raila said the killings should be condemned by everyone who respects human life and democracy. “All these 16 people were killed by the bullet. They were not criminals. Those who did this are animals but not humans,” Raila said. He told the government to take responsibility for the killing of seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda.  Mutinda was killed on Tuesday last week by a police bullet as he played on the verandah of their house in the Pipeline estate, Embakasi. “The bullet that killed Mutinda belongs to the government,” Raila said. Click here for the latest political stories