Nairobi Water’s Nicholas Matui has joined Rwandan champions, Gisagara Volleyball Club, ahead of the team’s busy 2018 season. Matui, a middleblocker, moves to the Southern Rwanda District side on a two-year deal. He has been signed alongside Uganda’s opposite hitter Ivan Ongom for a similar duration. The Shadrack Tovoko protégé leaves Nairobi Water after just a season following his arrival from Malava High School. Matui, who had no binding contract with the Ndakaini-based Kenyan Volleyball Federation league outfit reports to his new Rwandese employer next week ahead of the league, which serves off on January 13. Even though the move was confirmed by Gisagara’s head coach Fidele Nyirimana — to the Rwandese press — Nairobi Water’s leadership is not in the picture of the new development. They intimated that they have not received any correspondence from Matui’s new club, Kenya Volleyball Federation or the player himself. “We cannot continue holding him, especially with employment not forthcoming from the company,” said a team official. By joining the star-studded outfit, the Kenyan export will have to toil harder to make the cut for the team for Africa Club Championships later in the year. Nyirimana, who first spotted Matui during the 2015 East Africa School Games in Huye, Rwanda, is hoping that his new signings will amplify the supremacy of his team ahead of a busy schedule. He told Rwanda’s New Times: “We have signed these players in a bid to boost the strength of the squad. They are good players and I hope they will be of great value to us in the upcoming busy and competitive season,” said Nyirimana. Gisagara packaged themselves as underdogs when they premiered in the top flight this year, but shocked the Rwandese volleyball community when they beat Kirehe in the play-off finals to lift the trophy. In addition to Matui and Ongom, the Rwandese champions have drafted Yves Niyonkuru and Peter Bigirimana from Rwanda Energy Group, Vincent Dusabimana and Eugene Tuyishimire, from University of Kibungo (UNIK) and Nelson Murangwa from Tricolorul LMV Ploiesti in Romania.