Lawyer Nelson Havi’s bid to take over at the helm of the LSK is now in the court’s hands after a judge directed his case be heard on January 22. Although Justice John Mativo on Wednesday declined to grant Havi orders, he can still campaign for the seat as he waits for the outcome of the case, but at his own peril. Havi is seeking the LSK president seat and is fighting to participate in the race scheduled for February. The society said he does not meet the eligibility threshold. Justice John Mativo directed Havi to serve the LSK with the suit papers ahead of the hearing. He has not practiced for at least 15 years since he was admitted to the bar as required by the Advocates Act to contest for the presidency. Three advocates - Allen Waiyaki, Judith Achieng and Aggrey Otigo - will fight it out in election, as they attempt to unseat incumbent Isaac Okero. Havi moved to court on Wednesday, saying the decision to lock him out based on the number of years he has practiced is unreasonable. The decision contained in a letter signed by LSK chief executive officer Mercy Wambua states, “Upon considering the application for the position of president, we have concluded that Havi is unqualified to vie for the said position as he is yet to attain 15 years in practice from the date of admission.” Wambua, noted that Havi was admitted to the bar in June 2003 and will not have completed 15 years by the election date. “Given the circumstances stated above, the aforementioned person shall not be eligible to contest in the forthcoming elections and any other similar exercise until he meets all the required qualifications.” But Havi yesterday took his campaigns to Mombasa, vowing to fight for young lawyers. “The LSK should ensure Kenyan lawyers are able to practice within the entire East Africa community without discrimination as has been the case lately,” Havi tweeted. “I propose to ensure active participation in the teaching and training of lawyers at the university, KSL and pull pillage in order to assist and not inconvenience students,” another tweet read.  Another legal hurdle Havi is facing is a requirement to meet the criteria set by the society which states for one to qualify for the LSK’s top job one should qualify to be a judge of the Supreme Court.