The NASA products boycott meant to punish firms that “abetted electoral fraud” is still on and more products will soon be added to the list. There has been a lull, infuriating some individuals within the NASA ranks, who accused the top brass of abandoning the strategy. Safaricom, Brookside — associated with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s family — and Bidco were the first three firms, whose products and services NASA urged supporters to boycott. Weeks after the boycott was launched, many NASA leaders still use their Safaricom lines. On November 6, NASA chief Raila Odinga publicly abandoned Safaricom for Airtel to bolster the boycott. NASA accused Safaricom of abetting rigging in the August 8 election in favour of Uhuru, a claim the firm has strongly denied. The election was annulled by the Supreme Court on September 1. A repeat presidential election took place on October 26. NASA boycotted it and urged its supporters to stay away. Brookside and Bidco are alleged to have financed Jubilee’s campaigns. Yesterday, National Assembly Minority whip Junet Mohamed told the Star, however, that the campaign is still on and they are considering expanding the boycott list. “The products boycott is ongoing. It’s very successful. The companies are suffering in silence,” he said on the phone. On Saturday, Raila warned that NASA will expand the economic boycott to more firms to bring down the Jubilee administration. “We’ll escalate the economic boycott until this regime goes down,” he said. Raila did not name the firms NASA will target next. “We live in a rogue state. A state that’s now killing its own innocent people,” Raila said at the burial of Collins Owino in Sidindi village, Ugunja, Siaya. Owino was killed by police during Raila’s reception two weeks ago.  The products boycott was one of the strategies NASA adopted to push Jubilee into agreeing to a fresh election. The alliance says it has narrowed down its options to a fresh election or secession. NASA leaders say they will not rcognise Uhuru as President. They say no election took place on October 26.  Uhuru took the oath of office last Tuesday after the Supreme Court upheld his rerun victory. NASA says he lacks legitimacy.