The law is clearly distinct on the roles of the national government and the county governments. Although distinct, the two bodies should work harmoniously with the single purpose of serving all Kenyans. The two governments are interdependent and at no point has State House ever taken over the affairs of Nairobi county. The very notion of a Sate House takeover is erroneous. The sentiments are misguided.  Governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko was elected on the Jubilee ticket and it is incumbent on him to work with the national government to restore the county's lost glory and take back its position as the centre of commerce, communications and the business hub of the East and Central African regions. Nairobi needs good infrastructure, affordable housing, water, healthcare and job creation through development of industries and security, among other things. We can only achieve this desired growth through cooperation by both the national and the county governments. We need to appreciate the old system of governance had a different structure. We had the executive headed by the town clerk/CEO during my tenure. On the other side, we had the political leadership headed by a Mayor. Then we had an assembly with almost equal strength represented by the Party of National Unity and the Orange Democratic Movement. I observed impartiality and fostered a sense of service delivery to the people beyond political interests, hence, together, we made sufficient strides in achieving our developmental goals. Shared responsibility, effective communication and a harmonious work environment enabled the Nairobi City Council to operate as one synergetic unit. It was one family. I also cultivated a good working relationship with the Mayor and was able to hold the executive as one unit. I worked well with the Local Government ministry, the Office of the President and the Treasury. Isolation often breeds contention, which almost guarantees failure: You need cooperation among all the involved parties in order to succeed. I emphatically highlight that I got a lot of support and guidance from the Central Government. Its support was crucial for most projects during the approval and funding stages; automation of services, urban renewal and housing project, waste management and parking silos in urban transport, among other things. The writer was the last Town Clerk of the now-defunct Nairobi City Council      