School principals will pay heavy fines or be imprisoned if they allow discrimination of students on religious grounds. Two Muslim legislators at the Coast said on Friday that plans are underway to amend the Basic Education Act to introduce severe punishments for this offence. Zulekha Juma (Kwale woman representative) and Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita) claimed some learners are facing the discrimination amid preparations for form one admission. They pointed out that school managers continue to infringe on students' freedom of worship, as provided for in the constitution, because punitive measures are not in place. “We strongly condemn schools engaging in discrimination of students based on their religious beliefs and practices. The constitution allows freedom of worship and bars anyone from discriminating against others based on religion." The lawmakers said they and their Sikh, Akorino, Seventh Day Adventist and other counterparts have agreed to pursue the amendments to laws. “We have held discussions with colleagues who represent constituencies that profess various religious beliefs. We are all in agreement that we cannot have religious discrimination in our schools,” Nassir said. “The constitution is superior and supersedes any law, including school regulations. We have already started drafting relevant amendments to the Act.” Muslim and SDA students have been victims of discrimination and parents have complained in court. Some schools have been accused of forcing SDA learners to work on Saturdays yet it is their holy day. At other institutions, Muslims have been restricted from wearing hijabs and head scarves. The matter reached the Court of Appeal twice and the students won the cases. “I am aware that some sponsors have decided to take the matter to the Supreme Court. This is a relief and we hope Chief Justice David Maraga and his team's decision will be fair,” Nassir said. The legislators said they will hold a day's stakeholders forum to get views on punishments that should be introduced. “Our recommendation will be for principals be held responsible for the discrimination. We are a cosmopolitan country so we should all be civil." Click here for latest political news  