A 45-year-old man is hospitalised at Baringo County Referral hospital after he was attacked by a crocodile at the shores of Lake Baringo on Saturday. Joseph Losute narrated his painful ordeal to the Star from his hospital bed.  “I thank God I'm alive. I could be dead by now,” he said. Losute said he was taking a bath at the shores of the lake at 8am, when he was attacked. “I felt something sharp grab my right leg. I then saw a crocodile trying to pull me into the water,” he said. Losute said he fought the crocodile for 10 minutes. He said no one responded to his screams. “I was nearly giving up when I saw the water around me turn red with blood. It was such a painful battle,” Losute said. He said the grip of the crocodile was very tight. Losute said the reptile was heavy, saying its weight superseded that of his cow, which he "can handle alone". “Fortunately, God gave me an idea to collect a sizeable stone and I hit the crocodile hard in the head. That is when it released my leg and slipped back into the lake,” he said. While holding his injured leg, the man said he crawled back to the shores, where he screamed loudly until people heard and came to rescue him. He was taken to hospital. Hospital medical superintendent Dr Stephen Kalya said Losute is stable, although he suffered deep bruises in his leg. Kalya said an X-ray shows his leg had no fractures. He said Losute will remain in the hospital to undergo some checkups and nursing until he recuperates. Baringo county Kenya Wildlife Service warden Dickson Tanui said the incident had not been reported to his station in Kabarnet. “All the same, I will task someone right away to go and follow up on the case in the hospital for action,” he said. Tanui said he is only aware of the frequent cases of human-wildlife conflict going on in Katuit, Lake Baringo. The same place is where a 14-year-old secondary school student Kemoi Nenengole was killed and eaten by a crocodile in 2014. He was trying to wade through the lake. The student’s father, Samuel Lengule, said the KWS is yet to compensate them for the loss of their son. Nenengole was in form two. More than 200 children of Katuit Primary School from Chepkenyon Highland risk their lives everyday as they wade across the lake to and from school. The others swim, while others use temporary wooden canoes to cross the lake.  