County and subcounty schools will be the biggest beneficiaries in resource distribution, given the bulk of students to be admitted next year. These institutions are set to accommodate at least 647,800 students, about 63 per cent of the admissions to join secondary schools in 2018 . They stand as the biggest beneficiaries of the Sh16.8 billion the government set aside in the 2017-18 to upgrade and improve schools under the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project. The resources will be distributed over six years beginning 2017-18. In this financial year, 2,147 public secondary schools benefitted in the government disbursement of Sh8.2 billion for infrastructure improvement and upgrade. Meanwhile, form one selection was closed yesterday. Speaking in Nairobi, Education CS Fred Matiang’i said the government is shifting focus to equip all schools with the right resources to compete favourably with the national and extra-county schools. “We want to ensure these schools have laboratories and textbooks to accommodate students currently in the schools and the newly admitted students,” Matiang’i said. The schools will also be the biggest beneficiaries of the ongoing teacher recruitment. Speaking at the beginning of the selection, PS Belio Kipsang said the group joining form one will get six textbooks upon admission. Kipsang further affirmed that boarding schools will be required to accommodate more students under the day-wing programme. “We have put in place measures to ensure schools accommodate more students so that no child is left out,” Kipsang said. He said the government is committed to ensuring adequate facilities, enough teachers and capacity for schools to increase enrollment. “Schools will maintain their entry point but will have to increase the number of students.” During this year’s selection, national schools will admit only 2.8 per cent (29,411) of the total candidates who sat the KCPE examination, 11 per cent (123,399) to extra-county schools, 13 per cent (142,358) to county schools, while subcounty schools will carry the bulk of those admitted with approximately 63 per cent (647,800 ) of the total admissions.