The Nairobi county government has begun the installation of streetlights a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a directive on the same. Uhuru, when he joined Governor Mike Sonko for the lighting of a Christmas tree at City Hall on Friday, said the project should be undertaken immediately. He told Sonko to ensure the entire city is lit and not only the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. "We have the opportunity to make Nairobi the most remarkable city in the continent. To make it the green city in the sun once again and to lit all streets." The President said his administration remains committed to working closely with the Nairobi county government to ensure the city is transformed. On Wednesday, Sonko chaired the first county cabinet meeting where the issue of street lighting, traffic, and street children menace were discussed. During his address, Uhuru emphasised on the same issues.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Mining CS Dan Kazungu during the lighting of the Christmas fireworks at KICC, Nairobi on Friday, December 22, 2017. /GPS For his part, Sonko said his administration will continue working closely with the national government and other development partners to uplift the lives of Nairobi residents. "Through the national government, in the past week we have engaged the Word Bank, JICA, DANIDA and KURA to support the constructionof Mwariro, Muthurwa, Jogoo Road and Karandini markets amongst others." The governor disclosed that JICA has committed Sh12 billion for the construction of the Nairobi viaduct to ease traffic congestion around Muthurwa market. "The World Bank has also committed Sh650 million for the development of Mwariro and Karandini modern storey markets with ample parking," he said. "The construction of these markets will commence immediately," the county boss said. He assured Nairobi residents that his administration will invest heavily in improving service delivery, particularly in areas which have immediate impact. Sectors like education, infrastructure, health, water and sanitation are targeted in the drive. "Under my leadership, I further pledge to ensure accountability and transparency from my staff and fighting corruption remains my top priority." Read: First Lady, Sonko celebrate early Christmas with orphans at City Hall Click here for the latest political news    