A Jubilee MP who was de-whipped from a prominent committee has taken his battles a notch higher. The MP, from DP William Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard, is not sitting pretty, despite a temporary court reprieve.  In what is seen as a move that could stoke a fresh revolt on the DP’s home turf, the rebel MP invited a number of his contemporaries for a breakfast meeting yesterday, where he poured out all on his next steps. A mole in attendance said the battle has just but began as the MPs seek to reassert their independence from being dictated to by the party. One of them wondered “how shall we be working in Parliament committees if we are just the lapdogs of the leaders?” ***** A top Jubilee operative was heard ranting at Treasury why he has not been paid for goods supplied to the government last year, despite repeatedly visiting the responsible departments. Blame it on incompetent departments, he said. The bitter man wondered why Kenyans are dying in road accidents when we have the National Transport and Safety Authority and the Traffic Police department. “Why should we continue paying two departments doing the same work while we are complaining about a bloated wage bill?” He went on: “We have the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission whose work can easily be done by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations under the same National Police Service.” Hard questions, indeed. ***** TO some Meru-Nairobi road users, miraa could be more precious than human life. Motor vehicles — including ambulances with patients — are often forced off the road by miraa-loaded pickups and Proboxes ferrying the precious commodity to its consumers on time. It is alleged that whenever accidents occur, the police always side with the miraa transporters – because of warm “handshakes”. ***** OUR mole at the Ministry of Health whispers to Corridors that some of the bar owners lobbied for the shisha ban after they discovered that the product was cheap and its demand higher, reducing the consumption of more profitable alcohol products. Be that as it may, the ministry yesterday officially sealed the fate of the dangerous substance, amid speculation that some people may move to court to overturn the ban on.  ***** ANXIETY has gripped local Oracle employees after several Kenyans in the firm were sent home and replaced by foreigners this year. The company had announced months ago that it will hire an additional 4,000 Kenyans, but has since avoided responding to media queries. Some of the foreigners might not have the required legal documentation to work in this country. The former and current employees have written to the Immigration department, through a lawyer, protesting. Click here for the latest political news      