Kisumu Senator Fred Outa's corruption allegations against Anyang Nyong’o’s administration are geared towards the 2022 election, the Governor's political adviser has said. Outa accused acting county secretary Olang’o Onudi and Abala Wanga - the former director of administration - of awarding Sh200 million road tenders without following procedure. He claimed on Monday that the two officers awarded the tenders to their cronies and asked the governor to take action against them. The former Nyando MP claimed they ignored the Public Procurement Act which requires open tendering for qualified people to be contracted. Noting it would be disastrous for the corruption that plagued Jack Ranguma's administration to carry on, he asked the governor to act firmly and ask the two to step aside for investigations. He noted he "fought hard" for Nyong'o to win but will not sit back and as corrupt individuals interfere with operations. But Wanga said the "non-factual and baseless attack" on Nyong’o’s technocrats was an indirect indication of Outa's governor ambitions come the next national election. He accused the Senator of spreading lies against the Governor's team instead of pushing for unity so campaign pledges are realised. "We have established Outa has formed the belief that Nyong’o's is a passing government. He is held hostage by politics of 2022, with the idea that peddling lies will give him an edge or political mileage for his governor ambition," he said. "That is the genesis of the baseless attacks by him and his dark forces. He is a Senator, not a conspiracy theorist, so he should exercise his duties within the law." For his part, Onudi said he could not comment on "political outbursts by politicians who have no clue how public service works". "If he is genuinely playing the oversight role as he claims,  he should come to the Governor's office and seek clarification from relevant officers," he said. "He should not shout at funerals. Not a single tender for any development project has been awarded to any firm since Nyong’o took over. They should stop the witch-hunt and peddling rumours." 'Only one Governor in charge' Wanga further claimed Outa harbours a strong belief that "it is by his whims that the Nyong’o’s administration came into existence so he needs a substantial portion of control in the administration". "We want to remind him that only one Governor is in charge. Nyong’o entered a social contract with county residents and is working tirelessly to meet their expectations. He should be supported by all leaders," he told a press conference on Wednesday. "The Senator should understand that there is no coalition or power-sharing government in Kisumu, therefore, his demand for a 50 per cent share of the government is wicked and unconstitutional." Wanga challenged Outa to table evidence to support his corruption allegations "instead of mudslinging". He added nobody prevented the Senator from conducting his oversight role but noted it must be within article 96 of the constitution. The adviser said the national government has not released funds to the county so Outa should push for that for the sake of development. Wanga said the county boss has brought at least 10 plans to fruition "without a single cent from the government". He gave the examples of cleaning the city, streets lighting, relocation of Kachok dumpsite and debt reduction. He further said the legislator should face Nyong’o if he has a problem with him instead of attacking technocrats in his administration. "Instead of engaging in unprofitable errands, I also ask him to work with the Governor for development."   Click here for the latest political news  