I
have maintained one position: That the country called Kenya belongs to all of us.
It belongs to those in government and those outside, it belongs to the leaders
and the masses, it belongs to the old and young, and no one person has a
right over the others. There must be dialogue. We need to talk, and it is bad
to pretend that there are no issues that need discussion in this country.
  No
one should pretend that there is nothing to talk about. Remember that most
Kenyans are marginalized.  There are those who believe the elections did
not go the way they should have gone. But others feel everything is okay
and there is no need to talk. Allow the people to bring issues to the table in
a structured manner. We engage and address them as a country. Dialogue is the
only way to address developing national issues. There is no other way – unless
you want people to fight. I don’t have any issue myself, but allow the people
to speak for themselves and table all their issues. Read: Raila: I will carry the Bible, I must be sworn in NASA
has issues and it has millions of followers who are Kenyans. President Uhuru
Kenyatta is the one who has taken power and the least he can do is to allow
others to say why they are not happy and what they want to be done. How
can the country head in the right direction when everyone is pulling in
different directions! The
dialogue must be conducted by impartial and eminent individuals who can be
found in this country: You have to bring everybody to the table. Also, bring
religious leaders who are respectable. Whoever
is complaining should bring up the issues so that we can address them as a
country. We have to revisit and address the four points raised after the
2007 disputed polls. Uhuru
cannot say he doesn’t want dialogue. He is just one Kenyan: It is for Kenyans
who say they want to talk. It is in the interests of the President that Kenyans
talk. If they talk, we will have stability, peace, hope, unity and the way
forward, because we will understand the issues raised, so that we can stop this
misunderstanding among Kenyans. When you say you are the President and it
doesn’t matter what you think, where are we going to! Read: Raila will get to State House 'by all means' before 2022 - Fred Outa The writer was
a presidential candidate in the 2013 General Election Click here for the latest political news