The push by the US and the UK governments against the swearing-in of opposition leader Raila Odinga is a sugarcoated strategy meant to hoodwink NASA followers, and the world, that the two entities mean well for the country. Nothing can be further from the truth. The leading western blocs have been caught with their pants down after they embraced President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime for the sake of securing multi-billion shilling business tenders and supplies to counter the outgrowing economic influence of the East led by China. In a situation like this 26 years ago, US Ambassador to Kenya, the late Smith Hempstone would not butt an eyelid.  About 12 years ago, British High Commissioner Sir Edward Clay would not mince words. But time has ticked up to the time ideology has changed significantly. China is not bothered by anything human rights, democracy and the rule of law except business. This has irked European states and the US, whose grips on our nation are decades long. Between justice, rule of law and democracy on one side and autocracy and ethnic profiling and massacre, the US and the UK have chosen business with their dangerous card under the table in the name of peace. The vested business interests by these two states are the driving factor above everything else. That is why over 50 Kenyans have been killed by police in support of the regime of President Uhuru, but the two states known for their meticulous attention to democracy, human rights and justice have closed their eyes and ears as well as shut their mouth lest they lose business. Principal deputy assistant secretary at the US government Bureau of Africa Donald Yamamoto was reported to be pushing NASA leaders to reconsider the planned swearing-in, saying the move will polarise the country further. He is calling them to dialogue to help get out of the impasse. Recently, in a joint statement when the two governments sent a congratulatory message to Uhuru, they appealed to Kenyans to join and hold immediate, sustained and open national conversation to heal divisions between communities. Now that Raila has put the challenge on their doorstep, presenting facts, figures and the truth, the two nations are hiding behind dialogue and placing a tacit of unspecified threats or sanctions to whomever fails to embrace dialogue. This is double standard that patriotic Kenyans and NASA brigade should ignore by ensuring that whatever negotiation is done at their terms and conditions. NASA must come up with irreducible minimum to the US and the UK, including the principle of  “We’ll talk as we carry on with our agenda to establish a parallel government after swearing in and we swear in as we talk”. The US military hardware has benefited a great deal through sales of weapons following Kenya’s military invasion to Somalia in October 2011, which they themselves had pulled out.  Many Kenyan families have lost their loved ones in the hands of al Shabaab without any compensation. Noteworthy, life is sacrosanct and cannot be equated to monetary compensation. The proposed construction of the more than 500km Mombasa-Nairobi six-lane super highway at a cost of Sh300 billion funded by US construction firms in what is described as design, build, operate and transfer. It may take taxpayers 15-20 years to repay the loan. These are some of the things making the so-called big brothers sacrifice Kenya’s quest for electoral justice. The ranches in Kenya as well as multi-national tea farms remain British top interests and they are ready to sacrifice anything, including going in bed with autocratic regime, for the sake of their prosperity. Maybe it is the reason why the UK kept quiet when over 400 herd of cattle of Maasai community were brutally gunned down by police resulting into a huge loss of livelihood. When children, who have nothing to do with elections and others whose only offence is to picket, lose their lives in the hands of police and social rag tags or militia groups under the protection of the regime, an the US and the UK remain tight lipped, it the questions their intentions. May be Turkana oil is another centre of interest and may for a very long time contribute to injustices by catalysing curses instead of blessings for Kenya so long the big brother continue to glorify the powers that be to ward off China’s interests. Despite all these, NASA leadership is on the right side of history and must not relent on its agenda to bring to an end electoral injustice or else, election in Kenya will remain an exercise ahead of the coronation of a predetermined leader at the expense of the will of the people. Patriotic Kenyans should treat their calls with caution and where possible, with bare knuckles because it is hollow of truth, justice, democracy, rule of law and human rights.   The writer is a Kisumu-based Communications expert  