NASA chief Raila Odinga has condemned the arrest of strategist David Ndii and claimed more will face this fate because of his planned swearing-in. Ndii was arrested in Kwale at the weekend but it is not yet clear why. It has been said he was apprehended on Sunday night over his role in formation of the People's Assembly, police refuted the claims terming them mere propaganda. More on this: David Ndii's wife speaks of his arrest, rebukes police and Uhuru Also see: [VIDEO] I'll be sworn-in as president on December 12, Raila says Raila, who addressed the press at Kisumu county's office on Monday, said he had intelligence reports indicating more people will be arrested over the People's Assembly. He condemned Ndii's arrest, demanded his release and declared the Opposition will not "sit and relax, watching the Jubilee regime subvert the will of the people". "Ndii was collected like a dog from a hotel where he had gone for holiday with his family, bungled into a police car and flown to Nairobi. When his wife and my daughter Winnie tried to demand his whereabouts, they were also arrested," he said. "They searched a hotel room where Ndii had been booked and took some materials. Many more are going to be arrested but we shall not be intimidated into submission." The ODM leader said President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party administration has resolved to militarising police, who are "brutally murdering and maiming innocent Kenyans whose only mistake is to raise their voice on impunity". "Last weekend we buried over 20 people who died as a result of police brutality. This weekend we are burying another 20. Since the August election, over 215 Kenyans have been killed and their blood lies squarely o police." Raila declared they will not be silenced and will instead "loudly demand justice and our police will be guilty of collusion by association". He said the National Super Alliance will not get tired of fighting for electoral justice to ensure the people's votes count. His sentiments were echoed by Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo who said Ndii was being detained for charges framed by police. Amolo, who visited DCI headquarters where Ndii is being grilled, said police were unfair as they denied him access to his lawyer. "Normal procedure requires that in such instances one is invited to record statement. It is shocking how officers can raid a private room and [conduct a] search without a warrant," he said. He noted the strategist has been victimised for being at the centre of a seven-member team spearheading Raila's swearing-in. Click here for the latest political stories