Fresh from claiming the Jamhuri Cup, Wazito are looking to beef up their playing unit ahead of the upcoming SportPesa Premier League debut. The club’s chief executive officer, Luthers Mokua, disclosed their intention to bring in seven players to bolster their squad for the next season. Mokua revealed that the club has already identified out of favour AFC Leopard’s midfielder Harun Nyakha and Moses Otieno, who was released by Posta Rangers a week ago. Mokua said the two are largely expected to pen contracts by the end of the week after impressing in trials. Wazito saw off Posta Rangers 1-0 to clinch the Jamhuri Cup and the club’s boss revealed that their strengthening of the squad is in line with their ambition if being title contenders in their top flight maiden season. The University of Nairobi affiliated club braved stiff competition in the recently concluded National Super League to finish second hence booked a place in the country’s elite football league. With the season set to kick off in February, the management of the club remains keen in bringing in fresh blood in the squad for the upcoming tough season. Mokua, however, said the club lacked a sponsor and plans are underway to convince corperates to come on board.  “We want to bring in seven players and I can confirm that we are holding talks with Nyakha and Otieno. I am optimistic they will sign for us before the end of the week.We want to be title contenders in the top flight and not participants. As the management, we have to consider our head coach’s plans to bring in the number of players he wishes to work with and most importantly support him.The only problem we are facing is that we do not have a sponsor but we are in talks with a number of corporate and we hope we will have a sponsor before the season begins.” The club’s boss was also optimistic that the quality of football his playing unit depicted in the second tier will be replicated in the top flight. He said he expects the boys to pick from where they left and make a mark in their maiden season. “I hope the boys will show a similar fighting spirit and maturity they had to the SportPesa Premier League. We expect them to pick from where they left and fight for honors in the country’s top football league.”