Jubilee MPs from Western have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to complete projects he initiated in his first term and roll out more to save their faces ahead of 2022 elections. The lawmakers said tangible development by the Jubilee administration in the region will endear them to voters and soften the bitterness by opposition supporters towards the government. They said a revival of the struggling Mumias Sugar Company, more road construction projects and electricity supply should top Uhuru’s agenda for the region. Western is largely considered to be an opposition stronghold. Jubilee won eight of the 33 parliamentary seats in the region. It won in Navakholo, Mumias East, Malava and Ikolomani constituencies in Kakamega county and Sirisia, Webuye West, Kimilili and Mt. Elgon constituencies in Bungoma county. Residents are reportedly angry about the stalled tarmacking of the Lurambi-Nambacha-Musikoma road that links Kakamega and Bungoma counties. The construction of Ibokolo-Shianda-Nambacha road is yet to take off. Both projects were commissioned by Uhuru two years ago. The state has disbursed Sh3.7 billion to Mumias Sugar Company in its rescue plan. The company is still staggering under heavy debts estimated to be Sh12 billion. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe said, “The essence of political competition is to control resources. Now that we supported Uhuru we want to feel part of those controlling the resources,” Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe said. Wangwe said residents expect Uhuru to appoint at least one Cabinet Secretary, one Principal Secretaries and a host of ambassadors and chairmen of blue chip parastatals from Kakamega county after they delivered four parliamentary seats. Malava MP Moses Injendi said they expect Uhuru to roll out more road construction projects, supply water to institutions and homes and prioritise stability of existing factories in the region. “We expect the President to complete the projects he initiated in the first term and initiated even more because we must have something to tell our people why we associated with Jubilee,” Injendi said. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali, who is the National Assembly Chief Whip, said the government already has a number of projects lined up for Western region. He cited the Sh24 billion Kakamega bulk water project on river Nzoia, jointly funded by the Kenyan and Chinese governments. The project to be established at Nabuyole falls in Webuye East, will address the perennial water shortages in western. It will also generate 60Mw of electricity in its initial stages and 100Mw of electricity when complete to steady power supply in the region. “We hope the projects will address unemployment and attract investors to set up factories in the area in line with the President’s pledge to find investors to establish industries across the country,” Washiali said.