The inclusion of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago to a 10-member governors' committee to champion national dialogue, healing and reconciliation has not gone down well with some NASA legislators. Some opposition MPs were heard terming Mandago's inclusion a mockery not only to the committee's endeavours but also the country. Our mole has told Corridors that no sooner had CoG chair Josphat Nanok publicly unveiled the committee than the MPs were heard within Parliament dismissing Mandago as a "tribalist." It is said the lawmakers cited Mandago's last year's invasion at Moi University in Eldoret demanding that one of their own should be appointed as vice chancellor. The MPs are of the opinion that Mandago's inclusion renders the committee's objectives an exercise in futility. ***** There is uproar among residents of Kisumu county over an allegation that the biggest health facility in the city – the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, popularly known as Russia - is charging patients for using the facility's toilets. The angry residents, who are perturbed by the new development, now want governor Prof Peter Anyang' Nyong'o to come out clearly if the move is sanctioned by his Prosperity House office. The residents told Corridors they are planning a major demonstration later this week against the hospital and the governor if the issue is not addressed immediately. ***** Just who is backing a high-ranking ministry of Transport and Public Works official in the Procurement department that has continued to breach the law with impunity? One year after the closing and award of a tender for supplies, the official has continued to 'award' friends and cronies with letters allowing them to supply goods and services to the ministry at the expense of the successful bidders. Interestingly, the new beneficiaries never participated in the January 2017 tendering process. So irked are the successful bidders who have been supplying goods to the ministry that they have reported the irregularities to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Public Procurement Oversight Authority for redress. ***** An EALA hopeful from Nyanza has taken his campaigns a notch higher as he eyes a post in the regional parliament. The politician has been hosting a number of delegations, mainly MPs from the ruling party, at his Runda home. With intense lobbying underway among 25 hopefuls, the shrewd politician is not taking any chances to ensure he secures the coveted seat. His close ally and chief campaigner, was overheard over the weekend claiming that they have spent a fortune so far. He claimed that some Sh5 million had been spent in ‘treating’ and lobbying MPs from Jubilee Party.