Primary
school students are already six weeks into their holiday break, and secondary
students not much less than that. With schools staying on break until early
January, this makes this holiday break the longest ever for Kenyan children. It is the same length as the school summer holidays in North America
and Europe, and carries with it the same setbacks on learning achievements –
what has been dubbed the ‘summer slide’ in academic literature. As children
sail through their holidays, few of them are reading and writing. Some, because
they feel holidays should not be about more school work. Most, because they do
not have the resources at their fingertips to keep learning.  Regardless of the
reason, the effect is the same; during school holidays, kids regress in
learning, and are on average two months behind when they go back to school.
This loss of learning occurs because children are no longer practising,
so their brains are not working, and slowly lose the content that was learnt
over the year.  A study
from John Hopkins University found that two-thirds of the reading achievement
gaps in ninth graders was directly linked to a lack of access to learning
material during school holidays. This effect was found to be even more severe
on low-income children, which is not surprising as they would have even less
access to material.  Other studies have confirmed this, showing that the
summer slide affects children of affluent families less than poor families,
because of increased access. In many cases, affluent children will
actually gain in reading outcomes over the holiday, while poor kids regress.  It is
important to consider the economic implications of this effect. If children arrive at school two months behind where they left off, it will take teachers
two months to simply catch up. The school year adds up to approximately nine
months of teaching, which means that nearly one quarter of that time is spent
getting the children to the level they were at when school closed, and where
they should have stayed if they had resources at home.  To address
this phenomenon, educators were asked the question – what is the magic number?
How many books should a parent get their child to read during the
holidays? Research by Scholastic showed that reading just six books over the
long holiday (two months) can help prevent a child from regressing. This number
is a good starting base, yet for many children in Kenya it is unattainable as
books are expensive and many parents struggle to pay school fees, leaving
little for textbooks, let alone reading books.  Given this
reality, the most practical solution is for children to access their school
libraries during the holidays. In a study on the summer slide,
researchers found that there was a group of low-income children where the
effect was offset, and this was because their parents took them to libraries
over the school holidays.  Yet currently in Kenya, it is estimated that only two to 30 per cent of schools actually have libraries. There is no standard to determine
whether these libraries are well equipped, and no rule mandating that they stay
open during the holidays so that children can access reading material.   When
contemplating the data, it is clear that access to reading books must become a
policy focus in Kenya. Uwezo’s latest report found that two-thirds of Kenyan
children in standard three cannot read at standard two level. It noted that this figure
hasn’t budged since they started their research in 2010.  Of course it is true
that many factors can contribute to learning outcomes, and it is imperative to identify
the issue to create a programme to address it. But here is one issue that has
been identified – children don’t have reading material.  By investing in school
libraries, and using parents and community volunteers to keep them open during
the holidays, Kenya might actually be able to save money by reducing or
eliminating the learning slide that consumes so much of the school calendar. 