2018
will be a make-or-break year for Kenya's highly rated education system as the
government begins to implement a raft of radical changes that include
transiting to a new education model. The
government will also be rolling out a key Jubilee Party election pledge — free
day secondary education — to achieve 100 per cent transition for all learners
from Standard 8 to Form 1 that has many parents excited and anxious at the same
time.  Another
radical shift is the decision by the ministry to supply textbooks directly to
the schools. The
mass transition means that schools will be forced to admit everyone who sat the
KCPE, including traditionally rejected “failures” who scored inadmissible
marks. Of
the 1 million candidates who sat the 2017 KCPE examination, some 2,360 attained
less than 100 marks compared to 6,747 in 2016. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? The
test will begin on January 9, when Form 1s report to school. Many
public schools lack adequate infrastructure like classrooms and washrooms and
the strain of the mass intake is expected to extend to accommodation facilities
and teachers. Unions
and educationists have argued that there aren’t enough classrooms and that the
number of teachers is way below the required international standard
of teacher-to-learner ratio. The current Pupil-Teacher Ratio in
public primary schools is 56:1 against the recommended PTR in Kenya of 40:1. In
public secondary schools the Student-Teacher Ratio (STR) stands at 41.1. Public
primary schools are reeling from a deficit of 39,913 while secondary ones are
short of 47,576 teachers. The
government has promised to hire 50,000 teachers in the next four years to plug
the shortage in secondary schools in view of the expected trebling of
enrollment.  “We
are going to singularly focus on the teacher-student ratio, especially for
secondary education,” Education CS Fred Matiang’i said. “We
are also exploring new ways of supporting principals and school boards so that
they can acquire more teachers. We will seek your suggestions on whatever
proposals we come up with,” he said when he launched the Form 1 selection at the
Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). The
Teachers’ Service Commission (TSC) has asked for 12,696 teachers to be
recruited annually for the next four years in addition to the 5,000 it hires
every year. It
estimates that the recruitment will cost the government Sh8.3 billion annually,
with the total cost coming to Sh33.2 billion over the four years. The
Treasury is expected to prepare the Supplementary Budget, which will be tabled
in Parliament when it resumes sittings in February, to provide for additional
funds to employ teachers. This comes even as the government plans to retrench
nearly 40,000 from the public service beginning February. However,
as schools reopen for the first term of the 2018 academic year on Tuesday, the
government is keen on kicking off the ambitious 2-6-6-3 system that will
replace the current 8-4-4 one. The
plan has received stiff opposition from the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut),
which wants the rollout pushed to 2019 to allow proper equipping of teachers.  But
in what now signifies the government’s resolve to implement the new system, the
KICD has already trained over 160,000 personnel expected to start implementing
the new curriculum from Tuesday. The
rollout follows a successful pilot phase that targeted 10 schools per county,
which reported positive feedback. KICD,
the state’s curriculum implementation agency, rolled out capacity training for
all pre-primary and primary level educators ahead of the implementation. The
training was pushed closer to the opening dates because the very teachers
targeted were also involved in teaching learners in schools under the 8-4-4
system. There
was also need to ensure that teachers have fresh knowledge on the new system as
schools reopen after experts advised that training them too early would risk
some forgetting the content. WHAT
YOU NEED TO KNOW  TEXT
BOOKS The
KICD has already reviewed and approved books for the new curriculum, which has
been hailed by educationists as the panacea for the country’s unemployment
crisis. However,
parents face a dilemma, as the new books for the new system are yet to hit the
shelves just days before schools reopen. For
secondary schools, the ministry of Education has adopted a radical book distribution
policy that will see the government issue every student reporting for Form 1 with
standardised textbooks. The
student will get six textbooks — one each for Mathematics, Kiswahili, English,
Chemistry, Physics and Biology. The books will bear the Coat of Arms on the
cover. Publishers
who are supposed to produce books for Classes 1-3 under the new curriculum as
well as those for Class 7 and 8 and Form 1-4 under government procurement have
raised the red flag. With
three days left before opening, the Kenya Publishers’ Association Chairman,
Lawrence Njagi, said they would require two weeks to deliver the books. “We
are already publishing the books. We have six textbooks for each subject,” he
said. “However,
we have some subjects that only managed to get two publishers and that means we
will have to resubmit their bids, which may take time,” Njagi said. NEW
SYSTEM 2-6-3-3-3 The
new 2-6-6-3 system is meant to address evident gaps in the country’s
practical-oriented 8-4-4 system that replaced the colonially-inclined
theoretical education system of 7-4-2-3. The
7-4-2-3-system was in use between 1964 and 1985. It comprised seven years of
primary, four of lower secondary (Form1-4), two in upper secondary (Form
5-6), and three years at university for non- specialist courses. The
introduction of the much-discredited 8-4-4 system in 1985 was meant to impart
practical skills in learners. However, this spirit got lost along the way,
leading to the beginning of yet another module. Now
the new system offers a broad range of subjects at upper primary and junior
secondary and is aligned to the country’s development blueprint, the Kenya
Vision 2030. Overall,
the new system has three tiers: Early years consisting of Pre-primary One to
Grade Three; middle-school comprising Grades Four to Nine; and senior school
running from Grade 10 to 12. EARLY
YEARS EDUCATION (5 YEAR)  PRE-PRIMARY   Early
Years Education will take five years. A child will take two years at
Pre-primary and three years at Lower primary. Pre-primary
learners will be taught: Language Activities, Mathematical Activities,
Environmental Activities, Psychomotor and Creative Activities and Religious
Education Activities. Digital
literacy and pertinent and contemporary issues will be integrated across all
subjects. LOWER
PRIMARY At
Lower Primary, the learners from Pre-primary 2 will join in Grade 1 at about 6
years of age and spend 3 years before progressing to middle school at the end
of Grade 3. Subjects
at Lower-primary include: Literacy, Kiswahili Language Activities/Kenya Sign
Language (for learners who are deaf), English Language Activities, Indigenous
Language Activities, Mathematical Activities and Environmental Activities.
Others are Hygiene and Nutrition Activities, Religious Education Activities,
and Movement and Creative Activities. ICT
will be a learning tool in all areas with Pertinent and Contemporary Issues
mainstreamed in all subjects. MIDDLE
SCHOOL EDUCATION 6 YEARS (UPPER PRIMARY AND LOWER SECONDARY) Comprises
three years of upper primary and three years of lower secondary education.   UPPER
PRIMARY Upper
primary is part of middle school and comprises three years where learners are
exposed to a broad curriculum and given an opportunity for exploration and
experimentation. Subjects
for Upper Primary include: English, Kiswahili or Kenya Sign Language (for
learners who are deaf), Home Science, Agriculture, Science and Technology,
Mathematics and Religious Education (CRE/IRE/HRE). Others are Creative Arts,
Physical and Health Education and Social Studies with Foreign Languages
(Arabic, French, German, Mandarin) as optional subjects.  CT
will be cross cutting in all subjects. Pertinent and Contemporary Issues and
Life Skills will be mainstreamed in all subjects. A pastoral programme of
instruction will be conducted once a week. Read: New curriculum hones intellect  1 LOWER SECONDARY Secondary
education is organized into two levels, namely lower secondary (Grades 7, 8 and
9) and senior school (Grades 10, 11 and 12). Graduates
of primary school Grade 6 shall join lower secondary at Grade 7. Lower
secondary will expose the learner to a broad-based curriculum to enable them to
explore their own abilities, personality and potential as a basis for choosing
subjects according to career paths of interest at the senior school. At
Grade 4 learners will be introduced to the optional subjects offered at upper
primary so as to make informed choices at Grade 7. Learners in lower secondary
will undergo a rigorous career guidance programmes and be exposed to the
related subjects to enable them to make informed choices as they transit to
senior school.  SUBJECTS
FOR LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOL The
subjects are in two categories; core and optional. At this level, a broad-based
curriculum is offered to enable the learner to explore their own interests and
potential as a basis for choosing subjects according to career paths of
interest at senior level.   CORE
SUBJECTS Learners
will be required to take the 12 core subjects provided: They include English,
Kiswahili or Kenyan Sign Language (for learners who are deaf), Mathematics,
Integrated Science, Health Education, Pre-Technical and Pre-Career Education,
and Social Studies. Others
are: Religious Education – where learners choose one subject from Christian
Religious Education, Islamic Religious Education, Hindu Religious Education,
Business Studies, Agriculture, Life Skills Education, and Sports and Physical
Education. OPTIONAL
SUBJECTS Learners
are provided with an opportunity to choose a minimum of one and a maximum of
two subjects according to personality, abilities, interests and career choices
from the list provided. The optional subjects include: Visual Arts, Performing
Arts, Home Science, Computer Science, Kenyan Sign Language, Indigenous Languages
and Foreign Languages, among them German, French, Mandarin and Arabic.  SENIOR
SCHOOL Three
years for learners aged15 to 17 years. Lays the foundation for further
education and training at the tertiary level and the work world. It marks the
end of Basic Education as defined in the Education Act, 2013. Learners
exiting at this level are expected to be “empowered, engaged and ethical
citizens”, ready to participate in the socio-economic development of the
nation. The
learner entering this level shall have had opportunities at lower secondary to
explore their own potential, interests and personality and is therefore ready
to begin specialisation in a career path of choice. They could pursue studies
in one of the three pathways available in senior school: Arts and Sports
Science, Social Sciences or Science, Technical Engineering and Mathematics
(STEM). Within
the three pathways there are various tracks. Schools can also decide to offer
one or more tracks in the pathway, depending on the ability to acquire the
infrastructure necessary for acquisition of the identified competencies. Under
the Arts and Sports Science there are three tracks: Sports, Performing Arts and
Visual Arts Social
Sciences have Languages and Literature, and Humanities and Business Studies. Science
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics have four tracks, namely:  Pure
Sciences, Applied Sciences, Technical and Engineering and Careers and
Technology Studies. Read: Why new education curriculum is triumph for Kenya’s children Click here for the latest political news                    