Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga on Wednesday promised to revive sport activities in the county
during his term. He
said his government’s efforts will start with renovation of sports facilities  and roll out mentorship programs at ward level
within the county.  “We plan to
strengthen various ball games and athletics at competitive and recreational
level. I look forward to our county establishing the first attractive ultra-
marathon of say 100 kilometers circuiting Aberdares and Mt Kenya,” he said.  Kahiga said the first plan
will be to hold the Inaugural Wahome Gakuru Nyeri Marathon in May next year.  “I am extremely grateful
to President Uhuru Kenyatta for accepting to honor our request to support this
marathon. Additionally, we appreciate the ongoing support by the national
government towards renovation of Ruring’u Stadium to international standards
and we will do our part in ensuring that the facility is not only completed
soonest but also that our people make use of it,” he said.  The governor was speaking
during his inaugural speech at Nyeri County Assembly since he was
sworn in as Nyeri governor last month. “Our staff will not be left out in the sporting agenda. We will
continue to support participation of our staff in various competitive and
recreational sports,” he added. This will be one of the
youth empowerment since it will be a critical priority in ensuring this linkage
bearing in mind that the youths account for more than 35 per cent of the
population.  “Our youth empowerment
initiatives will also focus on building capacity through skills building in
ICT; provision of apprenticeship and internship opportunities to impart
necessary workplace experience and training; and also through linkages with
local training institutions,” he said. On Trade, Tourism and
Enterprise, he said his government will roll out an enterprise
development program that will provide business development, procurement support
and access to finance to hundreds of small and medium enterprises.  “We envisage that these
will take into cognizance the blend of natural environment, legacies in terms
of prominent persons, cultural history, religion and sports,” he added.  