The last round of the 2017 Kenya National Rally Championship will take place on Saturday under the tutelege of the Rift Valley Motor Sports Club. Nakuru-based Menengai Oil, which had supported several drivers in the just concluded Classic Rally, will sponsor the final round of the series under the brand Top Fry Nakuru Rally 2017. The Nakuru event will be used to determine the overall winner of the series following the cancellations of two previous rounds of the Nanyuki and Kenya Motor Sports Club rallies respectively. As per the 2017 National Competition Rules (NCRs), 75 percent of t he eight KNRC rounds has to be run in order for a champion to be declared for the current season. Otherwise the title remains void and null. Ian Duncan leads the table though any of the top six drivers stand a chance of winning the title with a maximum of 25 points up for grabs. Duncan leads with 87 followed by Carl Tundo (85), Baldev Chager (79), Karan Patel (69), Manvir Baryan (68) and Tapio Laukkanen (63) in that order. Nakuru Rally will decide who wins this year’s overall championship crown of the KNRC with the top five leading drivers vying for the single prestigious title of the motorsports series. Tundo and Chager will revert to their Mitsubishi Lancers Evolutions after contesting the poorly run Classic event in their Triumph TR7 and Porsche 911 respectively. Both drivers are supported by the Kabras Team. Onkar Rai, the leader of the Kabras Team, who failed to finish in the 2017 Classic Rally, will also return to action in his customary KNRC Ford Fiesta rally car. The rally will have its headquarters at the ASK Grounds in Nakuru. The final round will be 377km long of which 156kms will be competitive divided into eight sections. The first four stages will be repeated with the longest being 30.59km while the shortest stage will be 1.76km. The event will run 83% on private land and the balance will be on open roads. Nakuru, Menengai and Mogotio will be the centre point of action for the rally. Reconnaissance will take place on Friday between 0600-1700 hrs while scrutineering will take place on the same day at the ASK grounds between 0900-1500 hrs. Meanwhile, Kenya will host the second round of the 2018 African Rally Championship in March next year, according to Confederation of African Motorsports Council. Kenya finished sixth out of the seven countries that participated in 2017 FIA ARC series. The FIA Steward for the 2017 Safari Rally was South Africa’s Richard Leecke, who was also the clerk of the course for the poorly organized 2017 Classic Rally.