Police trailed prominent NASA strategist and economist David Ndii from Nairobi to coastal Kwale in a dramatic arrest Sunday night on suspicion he was planning meetings with the outlawed Mombasa Republican Council. Senior police officers told the Star yesterday Ndii had been under 24-hour surveillance for some time. They believed the NASA policy chief was contacting various people, including MRC members. This turned out to be a crude hoax and embarrassment to the state. “We have been monitoring his movements and meetings. We had information he may have been planning meetings in Mombasa with MRC members or associates,” a senior police officer told the Star. Read: [VIDEO] More will be arrested, Raila says, demands David Ndii's release Ndii’s wife Mwende Gatabaki denied the reports and said they were in Diani on holiday and to attend a wedding. “We came to give our daughter a holiday after the wedding. My husband did not have any other engagements or meetings,” she said. Apparently the police heightened surveillance from Friday after a message allegedly authored by Ndii circulated widely on social media. They then decided to arrest him for “incitement”. The message said in part,“They justify the murder of our Luo brothers and sisters. To justify police brutality and extrajudicial killings. The freedom of a peaceful assembly is now illegal and deleted from the Constitution. “You play with the People’s votes, lives, rights and Democracy. This is sheer evil. Babies and pregnant mothers are shot dead while demonstrating. “We shall not watch and see our democracy buried down deep down the soil. Think. Breathe. Pause. Plenty of alarming news will be flying in the next 10 days. Do not succumb to fear or intimidation. “Stay sober and vigil. When the time comes. Come out and play your part. Assembly up and swear the People’s President.” But sources close to Ndii said police interrogated him about an interview he had with a TV station weeks ago in which he spoke about the right to civil, disobedience, mass action and self-determination if citizens felt mistreated by the state. Close associates of Ndii told the Star the state is acting out of panic because it is “unable to understand us and anticipate our actions. “Ndii is a very public person who articulates his ideas openly. If they wanted to question him, they would just have asked him to report to a police station,” James Simekha, NASA think tank colleague, said. MRC is a proscribed organisation based at the Coast. It gained prominence in 2007 with secession calls and the motto “Pwani Si Kenya.” The government arrested and charged some MRC leaders with various offences, while others disappeared in a brutal clampdown. Leopard Beach hotel, where Ndii was arrested, is in Kwale where MRC has a presence. Ndii has been the chief proponent of the secession push in NASA. Ndii’s arrest sparked outrage, with politicians and pro-democracy activists claiming Kenya was sliding into dictatorship. The clumsy arrest and release recalled the police’s raid in mid-October on businessman Jimi Wanjigi’s property in Nairobi and a house in Malindi. They said there were illegal fi rearms. No charges were fi led. NASA leader Raila Odinga condemned Ndii’s arrest and harassment. “Ndii was collected like a dog by the police,” an agitated Raila said in Kisumu yesterday. Sources said the arrest was masterminded by paranoid officials groping for a fix to the political stalemate that went awry. Late yesterday, as condemnation of his arrest piled pressure, DPP Keriako Tobiko ordered the file and Ndii was released on police bond without charge. More of this: David Ndii freed on police bond as incitement probe continues For a man who under was police surveillance round the clock, it is interesting how the arrest was executed with such drama. First, the arresting police did not seem sure of Ndii’s exact identity. They fi rst went to the neighboring Leisure Lodge hotel, fl ashing his photos to hotel management, asking if they could identify him. At around 8.30pm, police moved to Leopard Beach Resort and Spa where they found the NASA strategist moments before he could have dinner with his family. “They approached my husband as he was together with our daughter heading to the dining room and said they wanted a word with him,” Gatabaki narrated. They searched his room before spectacularly bundling him into a police car in a convoy to Diani Police Station. As word of his arrest and whereabouts spread on social media, the police were driving 400km away overnight to the Nairobi DCI Headquarters at Mazingira House. After his arrest, the DCI tweeted Ndii was “currently under interrogation regarding matters touching on the off ence of incitement to violence” but gave no details Yesterday Raila condemned the arrest, saying: “He has committed no crime. (This is) designed to intimidate and fragment the people of Kenya.” Raila said he expected more people to be arrested. “We know the matter is not ending with Ndii. I know other people are going to be arrested.” County governments have the right to raise militia for the defence of the Constitution 7/10/2017 Ndii’s arrest comes just days after the Raila-led NASA coalition appeared to narrow down its political battle against Jubilee to either fresh elections or kick off a push for secession. Incidentally, Ndii, seen as the brains behind the separatist ideology, was named leader of the seven-member panel to spearhead formation of the People’s Assembly, seen as the springboard for the threatened swearing-in of Raila next Tuesday — when the country will be marking independence (Jamhuri Day). Ndii, his wife and their 11-year-old daughter had arrived in Diani last Friday and attended a family wedding on Saturday. Yesterday, his wife recounted how the family has been living in fear since Dr Ndii started working for NASA. She revealed that strange people have been watching their house in Nairobi for some time. “Th ere has been this white vehicle which comes and parks outside the gate. They always do that when they notice that none of our cars are in, so they know we are not in,” she told the Star. She claimed government has been sending people to spy on them and their activities. “We are very insecure. David himself gets a lot of threats,” Gatabaki said, lifting the lid on life of the confidant often seen as a radical political strategist. She said police acted very unprofessionally when they arrested her husband, subjecting their 11-year-old daughter to trauma. But the Ndii family is no strangers to President Uhuru Kenyatta. According to Gatabaki, in 2014 Uhuru asked her to come back to Kenya and develop a vital database on Kenya, including all companies and its directors. The ICT expert was then working in Tunis, Tunisia, for the African Development Bank. “He [Uhuru] wanted me to create a Single Source of Truth, a database with all data on people in Kenya, land, who owns what, all the companies and their directors which would help with security issues,” Gatabaki said. “My husband is not a criminal, he is not corrupt and he has never taken anything.” The NASA chief said he was warning Jubilee “for free” that their acts to suppress and intimidate Kenyans to submission would be resisted. “You cannot rule a people against their will. The will of people of Kenya shall ultimately prevail. We condemn Jubilee’s determination to use its security forces to blackmail and kill citizens,” Raila said. Observers say Ndii’s radical ideology is what has put him at loggerheads with the state. In 2016, he warned that Kenya would burn if Uhuru was declared winner in another sham election. “When people find that they cannot live together they part company. Kenya is for the most part an abusive relationship. It is about time we start talking about ending it. This ought not be a difficult conversation,” he wrote in the Daily Nation,drawing the ire of the state. Ndii’s arrest and the manner it was carried out were greeted with protests from rights groups. “Ndii has been at the forefront of articulating the problems with the way the country is run,” Gladwell Otieno, AfriCOG executive director, said. “What is happening should concern every Kenyan. Ndii is a law-abiding citizen. If there was anything police wanted from him they could have invited him, not wait until he is on holiday and arrest him. How the arrest was done is aimed at creating fear, intimidation to trample on citizens rights,” John Githongo, director of the Inuka Trust, said. National Civil Society Congress coordinator Suba Churchil said Ndii’s arrest signals the state was hell-bent on intimidating and harassing those with contrary opinions. “We condemn this reign of terror and witch-hunt,” he said.     Click here for the latest political stories  