President Uhuru Kenyatta is in for a tough second term because of the myriad of challenges that seem to have worsened, polarisation and slow economic growth. Uhuru's final five-year term started on November 28 when he and William Ruto were sworn-in. The ceremony cost Sh300 million so Kenyans complained as the country is haunted by recurring problems. More on this: Is Sh300 million Uhuru swearing-in necessary in troubled Kenya? Here are five that Uhuru and Ruto's Jubilee Party administration must tackle for a strong legacy. Strikes Teachers, lectures, doctors, nurses and clinical officers were among public workers who went on strike this year, their demands being higher pay and better working conditions. Collective bargaining agreements were eventually signed but the question of implementation remains. But strikes have become workers' approach to pushing the government to meet their demands. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion has threatened that learning will not resume on January 2 if the Teachers Service Commission does not cancel the mass transfer of head teachers and their deputies.  Sossion has asked the 557 affected principals to ignore the commission's directive until a proper agreement is reached. More on this: Sossion threatens strike over 'inconsiderate' transfer of 557 principals Unemployment According to the United Nations Human Development Index off 2017, 39.1 per cent Kenyans are unemployed.  It was reported that the rate stood at 11 per cent of the workforce and for the young, those aged 15-24, it was twice that. Kenya's years of strong economic growth was a key factor in the President's re-election campaign but the country has the highest unemployment rate in East Africa.  Countries such as Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda have recorded lower rates.  A worker wears a dust mask as she works at the Hela intimates export processing zone (EPZ) limited factory in Athi River, near Nairobi, July 27, 2017. /REUTERS Lack of jobs, especially for youths, has slowed down the economy to a point where unemployed adults depend on the small working class group that is stretching family resources and consuming savings for future investments. Around 800,000 jobs were created last year while the economy expanded by 5.8 per cent, well outperforming the global and regional averages. But Kenya’s 44 million-strong population is growing by 2.5 per cent per year, and nine million more job seekers will have joined the market by 2025, the World Bank said in a report last year. The government has been advised to  invest in self-employment skills to end reliance on white and blue collar jobs. More on this: Unemployment rate rises over prolonged polls, poor economy Also read: Youth unemployment spurs unrest, illegal immigration and terrorism — Mo Ibrahim Food shortage According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, about  3.4 million people in the country face hunger, given food insecurity. On December 6, World Food Programme warned that 3.4 million Kenyans faced starvation and advertised urgent measures to guarantee food security.  This is mostly blamed on the lack of clear-cut policies and seriousness on the part of the government to ensure adequate supply.  Efforts such as the Sh14 billion investment in the million-acre Galana/Kulalu irrigation scheme have not presented desired results.  The Opposition accused Uhuru's administration of failing to plan mitigation for poor harvests as inflation bit ahead of the August 8 general election. The government could focus on working on high import levies, poor road infrastructure and trade restrictions to help address the shortage. Related: Kenya among 12 states to benefit from Sh20bn US food security plan  A Turkana woman waits to get water from a borehole near Baragoy, February 14, 2017. /REUTERS/Goran Tomasevic Crime and terrorism According to the US department of State's 'Kenya 2017 Crime & Safety Report, transportation security, terrorism, religious violence, political violence, natural disasters, elections, cyber crime top the list of crimes in Kenya. Earlier in the year, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said criminal cases reported to police in 2016 increased by 6.2 per cent to 76,986, from 720,490 in 2015. An estimated 3,000 cybercrime incidences reported in Kenya every month.  Terrorism is also a major concern as Somalia-based al Shabaab militia have carried out many attacks. In 2016, terrorist attacks involving shootings, grenades or other explosive devices resulted in 122 fatalities. The bulk of these incidents occurred in the counties of Wajir, Garissa, Lamu and Mandera. Kenya has experienced 100 terror-related attacks in three years with about 370 people being killed and over 1,075 injured since October 2011. This was the year when Kenya sent Kenya Defence Forces troops to the African Union Mission in Somalia. The President has maintained that the soldiers will only leave Mohamed Farmajo's country once peace and stability are restored. But some politicians have argued for the withdrawal of troops for reasons including keeping the public safe. [VIDEO] Uhuru praises 'mighty' KDF, says Kenya will win war on al Shabaab  The Kipini Raha bus that was attacked by suspected al Shabaab militants at Nyongoro area in Lamu, August 2, 2017. /CHETI PRAXIDES Unity After he was sworn-in, Uhuru pledged to lead the country in healing and reconciliation amid division after the Supreme Court upheld his victory. The division was so much that after a directive by NASA leader Raila Odinga, his supporters in Siaya, Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay boycotted the repeat presidential election on October 26. The latest show of how much Uhuru must do was Water CS Eugene Wamalwa's chaotic departure from the Maragoli Cultural Festival in Mbale. Opposition supporters said they did not want a Jubilee Party leader at the function. More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos Also read: What did you gain? Moses Kuria asks Mudavadi after CS Wamalwa drama The President has urged leaders to desist from precipitating violence and focus on peace and security. He said he will unite all Kenyans irrespective of their political affiliations.  NASA supporters demonstrate against IEBC in Kisumu, October 25, 2017. /FAITH MATETE Every Thursday, hash tag #TribelessyouthKE trends on Twitter and other social media platforms. It is an initiative launched by young Kenyans who are tired of tribal politics. They hope to change the long history of ethnic groupings in election years. Kenya's politics has been characterised by ethnic tensions since independence in 1963. But it was not until 2007 that the demons of tribalism flared up in a presidential election dispute between Raila and Mwai Kibaki. Kofi Annan oversaw the formation of a grand coalition government after chaos that left at least 1,300 people dead and more than 600,000 internally dispalced. Uhuru said he does not mediation by Annan or any other foreigners. Read: Raila kneeling before Europeans, Kofi Annan not welcome, says Uhuru Click here for the latest political stories  