When Isaac Muthui quit his job at a local bank three years ago, he knew the decision was too much of a risk but just hoped for the best. His wife Roda was in full support and even allowed him to sell some family property. “You really cannot get anywhere in life without taking risks. You can imagine I sold almost everything I owned, including my house, just to raise money to start a business,” he recalls. Muthui had just formed Churchblaze Group in October 2014, but he was seriously in need of money to get the organisation going. Churchblaze Group is a Christian social network that works in a similar way to Facebook. The 34-year-old could not locally get ICT experts who could develop a site to the standards he wanted. Muthui used the money he got from selling his house and travelled to Gurugram, a technological hub in India. “There I met IT geniuses and I told them what I wanted. They developed the website for me but that was not the end because they keep developing it to match our emerging needs,” he adds. Muthui said during one of his trips to Gurugram, he was offered Sh600 million, to sell the company but he declined. “I called my partners back home and they told me not to sell Churchblaze. I will not be surprised if this website will be valued at over Sh100 billion in five years,” he said. Churchblaze is different from other social networks as it upholds and promotes Christian values and does not allow posting of vulgar language or uploading of nude photos. The network has an inbuilt system that blocks such posts. The site has not officially been launched but has been visited over 20 million times in more than 100 countries. The tremendous growth has attracted the attention of local and international corporate organisations, who want to use the platform to advertise their product. But Muthui also wants small entrepreneurs to use the site to directly reach potential customers. “My dream is to see a person selling popcorn machines in Ngara in Nairobi be noticed by buyers in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.  Traders should stop limiting themselves in their areas of operation,” he says. Muthui says when traders are noticed far and wide, they might continue to do business even when the prevailing local conditions are not favourable. “During electioneering periods in Kenya, business is usually at its lowest. So we must ensure small traders continue to sell their products in other areas of the world, even when there is too much politics in the country,” he says.  Muthui will launch Churchblaze early this month. It has its headquarters in Garden Estate, Nairobi, and also branches in Mombasa, Thika, Murang’a, Kitui, Meru, Machakos and Nakuru.  The company has six directors who are all Kenyan, with Muthui being the CEO, innovator and board chairman. Churchblaze  has five platforms for its users: Churchblaze Social Network, Blazebay, Homestaysafari, Nunur and BlazeSoft Limited. The first is a Christian social network that has already been hosted on the Internet. Homestaysafari is specifically designed to assist local and international tourists get homes all over the world to stay in during their tour visits. The website enables home owners to have their otherwise underused homes listed on the site for tourist booking purposes, thus giving homeowners a source of income. “Tourism is steadily shifting towards home stay as opposed to hotel stay,” Muthui says. Nunur is an online shopping solution that enables people to shop from the comfort and convenience of their homes or offices and have the shopping delivered where required. This platform will benefit shoppers who do not wish to be caught in traffic jam or long waiting at the supermarkets cashier’s queues. “It will also create jobs for the shopping delivery crew,” Muthui points out. Blazebay is an online shopping platform intended for imports and exports. “This platform will be used by those on international businesses, enabling wider choices to be made by exporters and importers and putting Africa on the business map. This platform will be launched in December,” says Sharon Mwihaki, the business development manager at Blazebay. Blazesoft is a web design, development and custom software development product that offers tailor-made application development solutions for businesses. Blazesoft has two major applications, Somamate and Q-Kut. Somamate is an integrated communication application linking pupils, teachers and parents on real-time basis. It uses low-cost mobile technology to give users educational lessons and assessments through SMS, the Web and Android platform App to create a real-time communication channel between all the stakeholders in schools. Q-Kut is an application that maximises operational efficiency and staff productivity through the smart queue management. It helps you organise your waiting lines by providing visitors with an easy ordering method based on prescheduled appointments (timeslots). “With this product, you will start queuing at the bank even before you leave you home,” Muthui says.