A 19-year-old
man has been arrested for defiling a 13-year-old school girl in Kamariny area,
Keiyo North.
 Sammy
Kipkoech was arrested on Tuesday evening at Kamariny escarpment and handed over
to Kiptabus sub-location assistant chief Robert Kipkerich. A resident
Anthony Kiplagat said Kipkoech was spotted hiding with the girl in a cave at
the escarpment. Kiplagat
said the suspect was apprehended by locals who were on a mission to rescue a
paraglider whose parachute came down and fell on the rocky escarpment. “We were on
a mission to save a paraglider when we saw this man with a minor. We suspected
there was something wrong and we arrested him,” Kiplagat said. He said the
locals forced him and the girl outside the cave before calling the assistant
chief. Kipkerich
said the suspect has another defilement case in court. The
assistant chief said the minor, who is a primary school pupil in the area has
been missing for one week after the suspect eloped with her. “He
[Kipkoech] was released on bond over a similar case. We did not expect him to repeat
the same mistake,” Kipkerich said. He said the
suspect has been hiding the girl different houses belonging to his friends to
avoid arrest. “We have
been looking for the suspect and the girl. We raided a house where we were told
that they had spent the night but we didn’t find them,” he said. Kipkerich
urged parents to closely monitor their young girls during the
holiday, saying several cases of defilement have been reported in recent weeks. He said the
suspect has been working in cohort with some of his friends to hide the girl in
their houses. “The police
and I are also looking for Kiplagat’s friends who have been aiding the hiding
of the minor,” he said, adding the suspect is being questioned by police at
Iten police station. The suspect’s
neighbour Evelyne Kiplagat said the Kiplagat’s house has been under lock and
key and some of his friends would be seen sneaking in some milk and bread. “I asked him
to release the minor but he declined and dared me to report the matter to the
police. At some point he tried to bribe me to remain silent,” she said. Click here for the latest political news