Decline in local revenue collection has been singled out as one of the key challenges facing effective implementation of the budget in Nairobi County Government. According to a report by the Controller of Budget that covers 2016/17 financial year, total local revenue collected i was Kshs. 8.72 billion which is a decrease of 9.4 per cent compared to Kshs. 9.62 billion generated in the financial year 2015/2016. The revenue collected accounted for only 44.5 per cent of what the county was targeting to collect.This means that the collection was below 50 percent of the target. The report shows that during the first nine months of financial year 2016/2017, the county received Ksh. 10.76 billion as equitable share of the revenue raised nationally, Ksh. 3017.82 million as total conditional allocations and raised KSh. 8.72 billion from local sources. Last month, the city government said it will identify new revenue streams, automate all collection and give incentives to debtors to encourage them to clear their bills. The above were some of the measures and strategies the county planned to employ to expand its revenue base and improve collections to finance its budget. However the county has failed to meet its revenue projection since 2013. In the last financial year, it had a budget deficit of Sh11 billion due to poor revenue performance. Failure by the county to automate all the 122 revenue streams, leakages and corrupt revenue collectors have been blamed for the consistent poor performance. According to the County Annual Development Plan 2018-19 tabled in the assembly last month by deputy speaker and Njiru MCA John Kamaya, the county has consistently achieved an average of 78 per cent of revenue targets in the previous years. City Hall's key revenue streams parking, single business permits, building permits and billboards (advertising). In the report, the Controller of Budget has also said spending of revenue at source is rampant which is contrary Section 109 of the Public Financial Management Act 2012. The Controller has also said the county has high personal emoluments which accounted for 63.6 per cent of the total expenditure in the reporting period. This, the report says, has been constraining funding to other programmes. Also mentioned as a challenge is low implementation of development projects in the first nine months of the 2016/17 financial year.  Also mentioned is IFMIS connectivity challenges which slowed down approval of procurement requests and payments to suppliers