ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is this morning expected to chair a Parliamentary Group meeting to discuss rifts that have rocked the party over House leadership positions. The meeting will take place at the party headquarters in Lavington, Nairobi. It comes even as the Star established that three NASA MPs appointed to lead the opposition in the National Assembly have been given official cars. Robert Mbui (Deputy Minority Leader), Junet Mohamed (Minority Whip) and Chris Wamalwa (Deputy Minority Whip), were all given offices and government vehicles on Friday. Read: Muluka SG post creates rift in Musalia’s ANC   ANC is rocked by division that has seen two factions emerge as MPs fight for Parliamentary leadership positions. One group is led by Lugari MP Ayub Savula while the other is allied to Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. On Thursday last week, the Savula-led faction demanded that ANC be given the positions of Deputy Minority leader and the chairmanship of the Public Accounts Committee in the National Assembly. It also wanted a slot in the Parliamentary Service Commission. The MPs also elected Savula as the ANC Parliamentary Group chairman. They include Tindi Mwale (Butere), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Justus Murunga (Matungu), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Ernes Kivayi (Vihiga), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and nominated Senator Petronila Lokorio.  They want Savula to replace Junet Mohamed as the Minority Whip. Agoi and Bunyasi are being fronted to take the positions of commissioner in the PSC and chairman of the PAC respectively.  They also want Lokorio to be appointed the Deputy Minority Whip in the Senate.  Savula said they are major players in NASA whose demands should be considered. “If not, ANC will take a different political stand,” Savula said last week.  The Khaniri-led faction has dismissed the demands of the Savula faction, accusing them of being used by Jubilee to cause divisions in NASA. In a statement signed by Khaniri, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala and nominated MP Geoffrey Osotsi, the lawmakers said ANC will remain in NASA. “Any insinuations and threats that ANC will pull out from the coalition are inaccurate and irresponsible,” the statement said.  They are fronting Khaniri to represent NASA in the PSC.   Click here for the latest political stories  