Drunk goons on Thursday stormed the Bungoma county Public Service Board offices, chased away the workers and barricaded the doors with chains and huge padlocks. The goons said the board members should not be in office as they were sacked by the county assembly last week. They demanded the board, led by chairman Gideon Sirai, immediately resign and vacate office. Some employees stood outside the offices speaking in low tones, while others fled for their lives. The board members last week filed an application at the labour court in Kisumu to stop their dismissal. The court directed the members to continue being in office. It will make a decision on February 5. The board was set up under former Governor Kenneth Lusaka, now Senate Speaker. It now finds itself in rough waters under the new governor, Wycliffe Wangamati. Wangamati has accused the board of taking bribes to employ residents, claims it has denied. The board’s tenure will expire next year. The board last month was investigated by the county assembly’s Public Administration Committee, led by Naitiri Kabuyefwe MCA Joan Lukatiri at KIE. The committee held its hearing at the Kenya Industrial Estate in Bungoma town. Webuye activist Moses Lukoye had sought to have the board disbanded on grounds of incompetence, misuse of office, violating oath of office and the Constitution, and lack of integrity. The board is made up of chairman Sirai and members Janet Manyasi, Elizabeth Wanyonyi, Peter Masengeli, Steven Wesonga and Bonventure Wasikoyo. The committee tabled its findings and the assembly passed a motion to disband the board. Sirai has accused Wangamati of meddling in the board’s affairs and seeking to influence it. A source said Wangamati has been asking the board to employ his cronies and give them huge salaries. But the board has refused since the cronies, most of whom are from Ford Kenya, do not have credentials. The board has also recorded statements with Bungoma CID officers after receiving death threats through numbers registered in Uganda.      