Bantamweight Benson Gicharu, youngster new light fly sensation Shaffi Bakari and light heavyweight Elly Ajowi will be among those lined up for the 2018 Commonwealth Games national trials slated for Nairobi’s Charter Hall next week. Others are Kenya Defence Forces trio of bantamweight Isaac Meja, flyweight Simon Mulinge and middleweight Nick Abaka. Abaka, a long standing Kenya team mainstay has had to play second fiddle to Elly Ajowi of Police since moving up to light heavyweight class. He will be at it to redeem his image and indeed fight for a national team slot. Abaka, who had a stint at the now defunct AIBA Pro Boxing (APB) semi pro ranks, hopes to make it back to the big stage after a long absence. He qualified for the Beijing Olympics in 2008 but got locked out due to a nagging jaw injury he had sustained in the regional military games just some days to the event. Prisons flyweight Harrison Mathuku and former Kenyan international Black Moses Mathenge of KDF are also among those who will be at it to try their lack for the provisional Kenya team ‘Hit Squad’. Teams are at the present shaping up to prepare their boxers for the national trials. Police are at Police Depot under the tutelage of George ‘Foreman’ Onyango, KDF are at Nairobi Trade Fair under Sammy Magima and the 1999 champions Kenya Prisons are at Kaloleni Social Hall under the watchful eye of former Kenya international Maurice “Kawata” Maina. Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) chairman John Kameta said the trials will pick four boxers in each of the 10 men’s weight category and women’s classes who will be whittled down to a final squad well in time for the games slated for Gold Coast in 2018. “Given the conclusion of the recent national league, the focus turns on trials. We will pick a tentative team of four per weight class then the national selection will see the final team through next year’s games. Boxers will have to fight for their slots to make the team and there will be no automatic slots awarded to any individual. They will have to prove their mettle in the ring. But we anticipate some very explosive trials given the urge by boxers to make the cut to Gold Coast. Standards have been set and only the sky’s the limit,” said Kameta. Among the top ladies in the trials are Christine Ongare at light flyweight and middleweight Olympian Elizabeth Andiego. Andiego is back in action after a motorbike accident which threatened to end her glowing career. Andiego made Kenyan boxing history by being the first ever woman to play at the Summer Games of London in 2012 when women’s boxing made its debut at the Olympics.