The High Court has temporarily suspended Elections Laws 2017 pending the determination of the case challenging their legality. Justice Chacha Mwita issued the orders on Wednesday after hearing the petitioners and the respondent. Two lobby groups filed the case against Attorney General Githu Muigai and Government Printers. In his short ruling, Mwita said the suspension will remain until March 16 when he will deliver the judgment on the case. "To avoid confusion on the laws which are in force, I exercise my authority and suspend the election laws pending determination of the case." He further granted leave to the respondents so they can file supplementary submissions on the Supreme Court decision in relation to the amended laws. Read: Election laws amendments were applicable in presidential petition - Supreme Court In the case, Katiba Institute, AfriCOG, activist Okiya Omtatah and David Ochieng' want a determination of whether it was proper for Parliament to pass laws engineered to specifically regulate an event that the majority party in unhappy with or opposed to. Through lawyer Waikwa Wanyoike, they argue the changes significantly confuse relevant laws on elections, including regulation of aspects that relate to petitions challenging August 8 polls. They further want the court to also determine whether Parliament can pass a law, to give effect to the minority opinion of the Supreme Court, as a means to circumvent the findings on the majority of the apex court. According to them, it is not proper for Parliament to amend laws to defeat legal actions pending determination by courts, or exonerate a person from criminal liability so as to overthrow tenets of good governance, prudent use of public resources and accountability. Waikwa further argued that the changes are confusing in regard to laid down principles of the Supreme Court on critical constitutional aspects relevant to the adjudication of numerous election petitions before the High Court and magistrates’ courts. In response, Parliament noted it is vested with the exercise of legislative authority at the national level under articles 93 ,94,109 and 124 of the constitution. Lawyers argued the laws were conceived, debated and enacted in accordance with the constitution, standing orders and all applicable laws, making them constitutional They also claimed petitioners were invited to public participation prior to enactment of the laws but failed to take part in the exercise. “The elections were enacted to address shortcomings arising out of the majority and minority judgments of the Supreme Court in the August 8 election petition," they said. The laws were forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta on October 13 for assent but he did not sign within the 14 days stipulated in law or return the Bill to Parliament. On Monday, Supreme Court judge Njoki Ndung'u said Parliament was within its mandate to amend the laws so the idea that the changes were ill-advised held no water. Njoki said the same laws are being used by Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia so Parliament's adoption was in line with international best practices. However, Chief Justice David Maraga said that those were her opinions and not of the majority, and added her opinion could not get in the way of High Court challenging the legality of the laws. Click here for the latest political news