The High Court has summoned Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet on Wednesday to explain why he did not arrest Defence PS Saitoti Torome for failing to pay a family Sh17 million. Justice Joseph Sergon gave the order after the PS disobeyed the order issued on May 30, 2016, compelling him as the Defence PS to pay the money. Torome was to be jailed yesterday for the contempt of court. However, he did not appear in court. “I do not understand why the PS, who is the accounting officer, does not want to pay the applicant. He may be enjoying some protection, which is the reason why he does not appear in court,” the judge said. Last month, the same court sentenced the PS to six months in civil jail for contempt and issued with another warrant on November 30 through the office of the IG. Sergon passed the sentence after Torome failed to obey an order for him to pay Sh17,257,930 to a family which gave their land to the government in 2006. “The respondent have failed to appear in court and mitigate why he has failed to honour court orders, having been cited for civil jail for contempt earlier,” the judge said.  Accounting officer Eunice Makori and Hellen Makone moved to court in 2009 to sue Torome, through the IG. They failed to compensate them for the surrender of Johnson Onduko’s land in Mombasa to the government. Makori and Makone said being the administrator and personal representative of the estate of Makori and the government failed to pay them Sh9.2 million, plus interest, in 2006. The applicants, mother and daughter, say in June 2015, a judgment was delivered and they were given compensation. They said the judgment and orders given by the judge were served on Torome, Boinnet and former Attorney General Amos Wako. They acknowledged receipt. The PS filed an affidavit in June, saying he is the accounting officer in the ministry and does not owe the applicant any money. He added that he is aware that any liability or expenditure incurred against the government can only be defrayed from moneys provided by Parliament. “Parliament has not provided my ministry with adequate funds to settle the applicant’s claim,” Torome said.