Save for individual awards at the international level, national women’s team, Malkia Strikers, lacked the oomph in what can be described as an year of lukewarm displays. First, they had an easy ride during the Africa Cup of Nation qualifiers staged at Moi Stadium, Kasarani last July where they outplayed perennial rivals Egypt, Rwanda and Uganda for the title. However, the team played second fiddle to hosts Cameroon at the Cup of Nations although they still qualified for next year’s World Championship set for between September 28 to October 20 in Japan. During the World Championships qualifiers, team captain Mercy Moim was feted best attacker, while the Edith Wisa was awarded the best blocker. Earlier, Violet Makuto, Moim and Janet Wanja had received the Most Valuable player, best attacker and best setter accolades respectively during the Africa Cup of Nation qualifier. But that was about it. How, the most celebrated team finished second behind Cameroon during the World Championship qualifiers still baffles many. The earlier the players, coaches, Kenya Volleyball Federation and the volleyball fraternity at large woke up and realised it’s not business as usual the better, if the country is to return to regain their dominance. Critics and pundits believe there was individualism at play rather than team work in a strong outfit which has previously won continental titles with ease. Others argue that Kenya’s preparation prior to the Cup of Nations was not as thorough compared to some of their opponents including Cameroon, who had a one-month training camp in Brazil. Malkia Strikers were on a non-residential training program for the better part of their preparations with giant betting firm SportPesa coming to their rescue two weeks to the Cameroon event when they paid for their accommodation at a Nairobi hotel. Did the local federation do enough in as far as fielding teams at international events compared to previous years? Yes, they did. Unlike last year, the men’s team was not dormant. They participated in the Africa Cup of Nation qualifiers in Rwanda. A reshuffle at the technical bench saw renown coach Moses Epoloto took over the reigns from Paul Gitau. Epoloto went for a youthful squad, leading to grumbles here and there. But bottom line, the youthful side defied odds to beat more fancied sides like Rwanda enroute to booking one of the two slots at the Cup of Nations-cum-World Championships qualifiers held in Egypt where they, unfortunately, finished a distant 10th. KVF also fielded under-23 women’s team at the World Championships in Slovenia and although there was nothing to write home about, they gained experience and exposure, key ingredients in their future endeavours. Kenya also fielded a pair of Gaudencia Makokha and Naomi Too at the beach World Championships in Austria and again the duo fell by the way side. But behold, the KVF election are set for early next year and as to whether there will be changes in the office, only time will tell.