Kenya ended their two and a half year ICC World Cup qualifiers campaign on a poor note after suffering a 161-run humiliation at the hands  by Scotland in UAE yesterday. Kenya, who had already seen their 2018 World Cup dream blown away by the same team on Wednesday, were bowled out for 105 in pursuit of Scotland’s 266 runs at Dubai International Stadium. For the second time in two matches, Kenya once again displayed poor show with the bat with only three batsmen scoring past 10 runs.  The Kenyan inning that also included five ducks was contrast to the Scots who had a century and a number of double digits. Kyle Coetzer was the top scorer in the match with 121 off 130 balls. It was a tough experience for the Kenyan as they struggled to pick up wickets as the Scots piled up runs in their bid to take up the second place on the log. From the onslaught it looked like the Scotland will not give Kenya an easy time despite having qualified as it took them 8.3 overs to lose their first wicket. The second wicket wasn’t easy to come by too as it took Kenya 11 overs to achieve their mission, mainly due good work with the bat from Coetzer. The wicket keeper and Calum MacLeod shared a half century stand of 54 that got the scores to 92.  Even with the two loses of Richie Berrington and George Munsey in quick succession after the loss of MacLeod on 19, Coetzer looked unshaken as he kept on drilling runs from the Kenyan bowling attack.  He was finally dismissed after 46 overs in the middle when Nehemiah Odhiambo had him caught after hitting ten boundaries and two sixes. Craig Wallace 949 ) was also instrumental with the bat with run a ball. Emmanuel Bundi was once again Kenya’s top bowler in the inning with 3 for 60 with Lucas Oluoch adding on 2 for 34. In reply, Kenya found the going tough as early as the first over when Gurdeep Singh was bowled for a duck.  Rushab Patel and Dhiren Gondaria could only put on 24 in their 4.2 overs before Rushab was sent back to the pavilion to complete another poor show with the bat.  From 28 for 1, Kenya lost five wickets including top scorer Dhiren Gondaria ( 38 ) for 19 runs to stand at 47 for 6 after only 12.2 overs. Things could have been worse for Kenya had Bundi and Shem Obado not shown some resilience in their 10 overs stand as it yielded 32 runs to lift Kenya towards the 100-run mark. After Bundi was caught out, Obado and Oluoch managed to get Kenya past the 100 mark and the final total of 105 as Obado remained unbeaten on 33.