Unless there is a major upset, the next four days in South Africa — from today December 16 to Wednesday December 20 — will see the election of the next president of the ruling African National Congress. The election of a new leader will bring to an end what has been a tough and somewhat unpleasant contest, in which the backgrounds and motives of all the six candidates, but particularly the top two — Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and former African Union chief, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma — have come under intense scrutiny. The four other candidates for the ANC top seat are ANC national chairperson and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, Human Settlements minister Lindiwe Sisulu, ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize and former ANC treasurer-general Mathews Phosa. President Zuma has said he is not standing, even though there has been some speculation that if the party splits over the succession, Zuma could offer himself up as a unity candidate. The vote is set to happen at the 54th National Conference when Africa’s oldest liberation movement will elect a new leadership. Most analysts agree that this will be the ANC’s most watched conference in the party’s 105-year history.  There is certainly as much excitement in the country over this year’s conference as there was back in December 2007, when at the party’s 52nd National Conference, Jacob Zuma was elected as ANC president, defeating the then president of the country, Thabo Mbeki, who had been seeking a third term as ANC president (there are no term limits for the post of ANC president). Mbeki, who had fired Zuma as his deputy president a couple of years earlier over corruption allegations, eventually had to quit as South Africa’s president in September 2008, when a court found that Zuma’s corruption charges were “unlawful on procedural grounds” and had been “politically motivated.” This cleared the way for Zuma to run as the country’s president in the 2009 general election. The allegations against Zuma never completely disappeared and in October this year South Africa’s Supreme Court of Appeal upheld a High Court ruling to reinstate the 783 counts of corruption filed against President Zuma before his ascension to the presidency. The big question, of course, is: Why the ANC’s elective conference is so important for South Africans regardless of the party they support? The conference is important because the person chosen to lead the party since 1994 has automatically gone on to become President. This is due to the fact that in the South African system, Parliament elects the President and, at least for the foreseeable future, the ANC’s large Majority in Parliament guarantees that whomever leads the party leads the nation. As a result, for South Africans, whether one is an ANC supporter or not, the contest will have an impact on everyone. In theory, South Africa is a functioning competitive democracy, where vibrant opposition parties should have a good chance — especially after all the scandals that have beset the ANC and President Jacob Zuma in recent years — to convince the electorate that they can do a better job come the 2019 General Election. I can only explain this by looking at the race to succeed Zuma within the ANC with the benefit of my experience as a Kenyan from the era when Kanu was the ruling party. This is especially the way things were from December 1991, when the Kanu Delegates Conference caved in, allowing the formation of opposition parties after a 22-year hiatus, to 2002, during the time of the merger with the National Development Party and before the big split in October. In those years, it was assumed, with good reason, that the ruling party was so overwhelmingly in control of all the levers of power that by 2002, when President Daniel Moi was forced to leave power by the Constitution, whomever rose to Kanu’s leadership had the best chance to become President. At that time, President Moi was under constitutional pressure to retire, and the opposition was once again split and as it had been in the 1992 and 1997 general elections. It looked like Kanu and President Moi would once again bamboozle the opposition and have their way at the ballot and remain in power. The party had been in talks with Simeon Nyachae’s Ford People as well as with Raila Odinga’s NDP, with whom it eventually engineered a merger in April 2002. At the time of course Kanu’s success at the 2002 election seemed like a done deal, even though by October 2002 the merger had unravelled and most of the party’s strongest leaders decamped to form the National Rainbow Coalition, Narc. Up until that time, Kanu had literally been the “Baba na Mama” of all political parties in Kenya, and had maintained a stranglehold on all the levers of power, including the then influential state broadcaster KBC — then the only broadcaster that could reach every inch of the country — and on the crucial provincial administration.  This control of broadcast news and the provincial administration helped President Moi and Kanu to dish out political patronage, and to get their message out to voters ahead of an opposition which was hampered by little or no access to these systems. It could only make promises to reward voters, whereas Kanu could ensure it was seen to reward supporters and penalise those sections of the country that opposed its rule. President Moi had also hoped that his successor in Kanu would protect him in his retirement from any legal charges emanating from his 24-year rule. The succession may not have gone as he planned it, but as Oginga Odinga observed in his 1967 biography Not yet Uhuru: “Moi is like a giraffe: He sees very far”. He is suspected to have cut a deal with the Narc government that granted him a certain amount of immunity from prosecution. Despite his being pursued on 783 corruption allegations and other legal issues while still in office, I suspect that a former President Zuma might also engineer some sort of immunity deal with his successor, perhaps using the continued unity of the ANC as his trump card. It remains to be seen, however. Meanwhile, in modern South Africa, power is devolved between national government, nine provinces and 278 municipalities. As a result of this devolution, in theory, the ruling ANC is limited by the South African constitution as far as dishing out political patronage to supporters.    However in practice, it is a very different story — as can be seen from the results of the last test of the ANC’s popularity in the 2016 local government election. This election saw the ANC maintain its place as the largest party overall, earning 53.9 per cent of the total vote. The main opposition party, the Democratic Alliance, had 26.9 per cent of the vote and Julius Malema’s Economic Freedom Fighters party garnered 8.2 per cent. With such control of large parts of the country and strong grassroots influence, where the ANC is seen as the party that brought down Apartheid, it has been relatively easy for President Zuma and the ANC to cling to power through exercising patronage such as the appointment of cronies to the various institutions. This is done through what is known here in South Africa as “cadre deployment”, ie the appointment by a government’s governing party of loyalists to the various institutions, as a means of circumventing public reporting-lines and bringing that institution under the control of the party, as opposed to the state. This is very much in the style of once all-powerful ruling parties such as Kanu during its heyday. That said, the ANC election comes at a time when there is mass discontent with the party and its leadership, particularly President Zuma, who is accused of allowing systemic political corruption in which a number of private interests are accused of influencing both his and the state’s decision-making process to their own advantage. The election has caused deep rifts within the ANC and affected the economy as unnerved investors seek political and policy clarity. Whichever of the two main candidates in the race to succeed Zuma is elected to the post of ANC president can be considered a shoe-in for the presidency of the country come the end of Zuma’s term of office in 2019. However, the process of deciding who will get to attend and vote at the conference has been marred by court challenges, allegations of rigging and outbreaks of violence, casting some doubt on whether the party will be able to stage a credible election. ANC’s secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, however, insists that most nomination disputes have been resolved and that the lawsuits that have been filed were ill-considered, and will be forgotten once the elective conference is over. Going into the conference, it looks as though Ramaphosa has won endorsement from 1,862 ANC branches as opposed to Dlamini-Zuma, who is backed by 1,309 branches. This would appear to give Ramaphosa, who is also the ANC deputy president, an edge — but no guarantee of victory. This is because, while the branch nomination numbers are the best available indicator of who’s likely to win, they aren’t conclusive because some bigger branches can have more than one delegate and there’s no guarantee delegates will vote as instructed. Meanwhile, the branches will account for 90 per cent of the 5,240 voting delegates at the conference, while the rest of the votes will come from the party’s leadership structures and the three leagues: Youth, women and military veterans. Each league has 60 votes, with Dlamini-Zuma expected to receive support from the youth and women’s groups, while Ramaphosa is likely to win the veterans’ vote. The nine provincial committees get a further 27 votes each, while the 86 members of the National Executive Committee are all able to cast ballots and these could be fairly evenly split. Zuma has been campaigning for his ex-wife Dlamini-Zuma, 68, to succeed him. However, if the investor community had a say, they would be lining up behind the former trade union leader and one of the wealthiest Black South Africans, Ramaphosa. According to one report, which quoted Anthony Butler, a politics professor at the University of the Western Cape, “While nominations at previous ANC elective conferences were more or less in line with the eventual outcome, that may not be the case this year. This time, there is more money changing hands, but there are also branches keeping their real intentions hidden and many of them will be Ramaphosa backers.” The minute the new ANC president is chosen, the countdown to the 2019 election will begin. But before that, the world will have to wait and see if President Zuma can remain as national President until his term ends in 2019. The succession at the helm of the nation’s politics could end up being earlier than 2019, if, as has been speculated, Zuma cuts a sweetheart deal with his successor that will guarantee him a dignified exit from office and a prosecution free-retirement.   PROFILES   Below are biographies of both the leading hopefuls in the Zuma Succession race. The profiles were compiled from multiple sources       Cyril Ramaphosa   Born on November 17, 1952, Ramaphosa was elected secretary general of the African National Congress in 1991. He is widely respected as a skilful negotiator and strategist; he played a leading role as an ANC negotiator at the Convention for a Democratic South Africa - CODESA. Following the first democratic elections in 1994, many expected him to go straight into national politics but it was not to be. The story goes that he wanted to become Nelson Mandela’s deputy in 1994, and that when he overlooked him, he became so upset that he refused to attend Mandela’s inauguration as President, and he also declined a post in his government. After leaving mainstream politics, Ramaphosa became the symbol of Black capitalism in South Africa. He is now the second richest Black businessman in South Africa, with global financial publication Forbes putting his wealth at $675m. SA’s richest black businessman just happens to be his brother-in-law, Patrice Mostsepe.      Nkosazana Clarice Dlamini-Zuma   Born on January 27, 1949 in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is the immediate former chairperson of the African Union Commission. She previously served as the South African Minister of Home Affairs. She is a long-standing heavyweight politician in the ANC, boasting anti-apartheid struggle credentials as an underground member of the party when it was still banned. A medical doctor by training, Dlamini-Zuma was married to President Jacob Zuma from 1972-98. The couple met in exile in Swaziland, during the depths of the apartheid era. She was Zuma’s second wife and they have four children. Though divorced, they are seen to still enjoy good personal relations. Nevertheless, Dlamini-Zuma lacks the easy charm and common touch of her former husband, and must overcome widespread suspicion that the President is actively supporting her in the belief that she will protect him from suits and corruption investigations.