Embattled retailer Nakumatt has moved to court to stop landlords from evicting it from their premises. They have attributed part of its problems to the year old Banking (Amendment) Act which put a cap on interest rates. Nakumatt CEO Atul Shah said the enactment of the law severely restricted the supermarket’s ability to access key short to medium term financing that it relied upon to meet its obligations to creditors. “It therefore became necessary for Nakumatt to negotiate fresh terms with financial institutions and repayment with its creditors owing to these unforeseen circumstances,” Shah said. He said Nakumatt has made a lot of efforts to recapitalise business to overcome its current financial situation. The retailer is battling two insolvency petitions filed by creditors. On August 28, the High Court issued orders stopping all Nakumatt creditors from attaching the retailer's property to recover amounts owed to them. However on November 16, a request by Nakumatt to be allowed to appoint an administrator to run its affairs until it is able to resume normal business, was declined. Consequently, two of its creditors – Sabaki River Holdings Ltd and Southcoast Holdings Ltd – entered the premises they had leased to Nakumatt and placed notices stating the lease had been terminated.   Shah wants the creditors stopped because they have violated the August 28 court order as well as the provisions of the Insolvency Act. “I believe the November 16 ruling did not vacate the earlier orders issued restraining any acts of attachment, sequestration, distress or execution against Nakumatt and its assets,” Shah said. He said the two creditors have denied Nakumatt access to the premises. He said perishable goods contained in the stores such as vegetables, dairy products, meet products, bread and juices will go stale if the stores are not opened. "Efforts to restructure and refinance the business will be frustrated," Shah said. Sabaki River Holdings Limited and Southcoast Holdings Limited, through their lawyer Philip Mwoka Sultan Khimji have opposed the application saying Nakumatt is a tenant at the two premises and has defaulted on the terms of the lease. Nakumatt owes Sh26,140,692 and Sh6,777,476 in rent arrears to the two firms respectively. Khimji said Sabaki and Southcoast have, in compliance with the terms of the lease agreement, reposed the premises and terminated the lease agreement. He also said the High Court has not issued any order restraining the landlords exercising the right to take back their premises. “Nakumatt is treating us inequitably as it has been making payments to certain malls,” Khimji said in court papers. He said they are also serving mortgages and which they have been unable to service because Nakumatt has failed to pay its rent. They have asked the court to allow them take over their premises as provided in the lease agreements they had entered with Nakumatt. The case will be heard on December 4.