The
former Prime Minister has been cornered legally. There is no provision in the
supreme law of the land that anchors a swearing-in of the President other than
the one provided for in the Constitution. Article
141 of the Constitution is non-ambiguous as to the procedure for the Assumption
of the Office of the President of the Republic of Kenya. The
swearing-in of Kenya’s President as stipulated in the Constitution must be done
in public, where the Judiciary Registrar administers the oath of office to a
president-elect before the Chief Justice. Remember
before the Judiciary conducts the swearing- in of a president-elect, there must
be a preceding election conducted by none other than the Independent Electoral
and Boundaries Commission and a duly elected president declared by the
commission and upheld by the Supreme Court in case of a petition. Well,
in Raila’s case it’s as mindboggling as it is laughable for him to attempt to
swear himself in in a mock oath-taking fete based on the August 8 presidential
election results that were not only annulled by the Supreme Court, but also in
which the IEBC declared President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner. The
opposition leader has had his constitutional and legal options exploited and exhausted
and must be cautious not to shatter the massive democratic credentials he
boasts of. Raila
has fought for the democratic space Kenyans enjoy today. But I doubt the former
PM would be keen on taking the country down the path of the historic
multi-party street battles that claimed lives. Personally,
I think what Raila is trying to do is to showcase to the world that the
President has no popular support among the majority of Kenyans. Remember he
might want the swearing-in rally attended to the last man of his support
constituency. By doing this, he intends to pile pressure on the international
community, which he has viciously attacked as being biased, to find a political
solution to the prolonged political standoff. Raila
is a very intelligent and an equally shrewd politician who knows when to take
advantage of a fragile situation to milk the most political capital and
personal expedience. I
am not seeing Raila raising a Bible, placing his hand on the Constitution or
inspecting any armed guard of honour before taking the oath of office of the President
as prescribed under the law. The writer is a political analyst