As Christmas bells are ringing to mark the birth of Jesus over 2000 years ago, many planned getaways to the dream destinations they saved cash for months and even years to get to. While some are waiting for their flights and trains, others are awaiting to take a road trip to realise their dreams as long as their pockets can hack it.  Sitting at the comfort of your homes, you begin to hear songs that suggest that you need to move away from home. But then the question remains, can you afford it? can you sustain happiness with strangers in a beach or hotels? Or will you start forming an entirely new relationship that will be broken after two weeks or a month? Yes, there is a yearning for exploring but then if you happen to leave for the vacations and listen to songs like "I'll be Home for Christmas" or "White Christmas", and you'll hear a deep yearning for home. You will long to celebrate the festive season with your loved ones while seated at the comfort of your homes. 'Enjoy family company' Kennedy Ongaro, a sociologist, says this is the time for the family to enjoy each others' company at the comfort of their homes without having to travel for the festive season. "Celebrating the season at home is advisable since it comes with little pressure to impress. Many people who celebrate at home are at peace than those who are travelling," he told the Star. Ongaro says being close to ones family is the best since people get time to bond and socialise more. "This is the time to sit and tell each other stories. Plus, it helps you in saving for January blues," he said. He adds that it is important that people reflect on their primal need to have a meaningful relationship with a setting, a setting that only them can define, including what and how they want the celebrations to be. Apart from the costs that can be incurred during the season, it is advisable that staying at home is the best thing that can ever happen to a person. "People who stay at home save a lot including school fees that they can use when January comes. Having a walk and telling stories is highly recommended." 'Forced to travel?' The expert also noted that some people are forced to travel as a result of peer pressure from other groups or friends. "There's is always a kind of a move where people move or travel because the neighbours have travelled and they would not want to be left behind," he says. "You will find men who force their wives on holidays and wives who force their men. People move out because they feel where they live in is not conducive." Ongaro holds that some people may have what it takes to stay happy but noted that holidays is a must for them. "When you are within your compound and you have all the facilities. One thing lacks, you don't have all it takes to entertain yourself and have fun as you would like when on holiday," he says. "Most people don't have good homes so they have to go to places where the can spend and have fun. The environment we leave in is very boring so people would want to change." Christmas is one of those holidays that just seems to be filled with cheer and wonder.  Whether you are celebrating a secular or religious Christmas, your day is sure to be filled with happiness, choose wisely where you want to celebrate and have fun. Merry Christmas. Click here for the latest political news 