The Christmas season is here and the festivities bug
seems to have bitten Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa.
 For the first time, the no-nonsense administrator praised vocal MP Mishi Mboko for her efforts to fight crime in Likoni. Marwa on Saturday singled out the legislator, among
Coast leaders, saying she has stood out in her efforts to ensure
crime is reduced in the region. Mboko has been one of the most vocal MPs against
Marwa's administration,
especially on matters politics and security.
 Likoni has, in the past few weeks, been hit by a
wave of criminal incidents involving youth gangs. Police have successfully neutralised the gangs. There are at least 10 such criminal groups including Watalia, Wajukuu wa Bibi, Kapenguria Six, Young Thugs, that are operating in Likoni alone.  Marwa told journalists that 30 youths associated with the criminal gangs surrendered
to police last week. "I want to thank the county commissioner Mr (Evans)
Achoki and his team, especially the MP for Likoni Mhemishiwa Mishi for standing
up to fight crime there. It has worked." Read: 90 kids, two preachers arrested in an FBI raid on Likoni madrasa Marwa addressed the press at the Uhuru na Kazi
buildings. "And if a Kenyan has surrendered, there is no need to
punish them. We call upon the others who think they know better to do the
same," he said. The administrator said Coast
leaders, with most of whom he has been at loggerheads, have done well to ensure
relative peace during the Christmas festivities. "All leaders have been preaching peace, not only political
leaders." Marwa arrived at the Uhuru na Kazi buildings in a TukTuk
taking the sentries at the gate and journalists by surprise.
 "We have never had peace like this. Credit does
not go only to the government. We give credit to all leaders at the Coast," he added. However, he took a swipe
at former Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba saying his tenure saw a rise of criminal gangs - Wakali Kwanza
and Wakali Wao.
 Bedzimba has consistently denied claims that he is funding the groups saying he is
a peace crusader and not a violence champion.
 He argued that Kisauni has witnessed relative come since Ali
Mbogo succeeded Bedzimba as MP.   Click here for the latest political news  