I would like to think I don’t have criminal tendencies, but I must admit to having being very impressed with the recent bank heist in Kenya which involved the digging of a tunnel into a bank’s vault. I was impressed because unlike many bank robberies where members of the public, innocent bystanders and bank staff get traumatised, physically injured or even killed, this Hollywood inspired robbery did not do anyone any physical harm. Back in the mid-1990s I worked for the now defunct Weekly Review magazine when they were based in office off Mombasa Road somewhere behind the African Heritage showroom. According to a tale I was told by a colleague, there was a building a couple of gates down the road in which one of the big banks, I believe it was Barclays, was rumoured to store cash. Having watched more than our fair share of bank heist films involving tunnels being dug into bank vaults by determined robbers, we often fantasised - especially during the the dark few days before pay day - about carrying out just such a robbery. Of course had the opportunity presented itself, neither of us would have done it as it takes a certain temperament to rob a bank and we just were not wired that way.  I had grown up in the 1970s when it seemed as though almost every week there was a report of a bank robbery in Nairobi. In those days stories of bank robbers such as the cold blooded Wakinyonga, were legion, as were the rumours of powerful political godfathers who sometimes protected them from arrest.  These bank robbers did it the old Bonnie and Clyde way, i.e. breaking into the banking hall shouting at everyone to lie down on the floor or risk getting shot and then carrying out their thieving, shooting any obvious witnesses just for the fun of it and fleeing the bank guns blazing in the getaway car of choice for those days, a Peugeot 504 saloon car. The bank robbers liked the 504 for its power and knew that they could outrun the police in their less powerful Datsuns. In the end I believe Wakinyonga was shot by his nemesis, the police reservist Patrick Shaw during a shoot out at a Kangemi bar that Wakinyonga and his gang liked to frequent. As children at school we would often re-enact these robberies in our games of cops and robbers thus creating our own myths around the legends. Later on one would watch films about bank heists and be manipulated by the filmmakers and their casting tricks into siding with the bad guys. Meanwhile back to the present day and the Thika tunnel heist job, the fact that within days of the robbery, the Kenya police made arrests and the suspects have been arraigned, is also  admirable - especially since the Kenya Police get so much flak for getting it wrong so much of the time.  Now if they score a conviction, then it will be Christmas come early even though they will just have been doing their jobs. Isn’t it sad how we get so happy when certain people do their jobs properly? Follow me on Twitter @MwangiGithahu