Hassan Mwamtoa has not and will never be my spy, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said. Mwamtoa was a running mate to governor candidate and former NyaIi MP Hezron Awiti. The ex-MP was Joho’s bitter critic and political rival. Joho nominated Mwamtoa as the executive for Agriculture, Fisheries, Livestock and Cooperatives in mid-November eliciting mixed reactions. Mwamtoa and three others were sworn-in on Wednesday at the Governor’s office. But the appointment has sparked rumours that Mwamtoa was 'spying' on Awiti for Joho.  Mombasa Fisheries executive Hassan Mwamtoa taking oath of office at Governor Hassan Joho's office, December 13, 2017/ ERNEST CORNEL Three weeks before the August 8 ballot, there was speculation that Mwamtoa, a banjer, was being considered for a post in Joho’s administration. It was alleged that Mwamtoa had had meetings with Joho’s handlers. Shortly after this, Awiti held meetings at Mamba Village, Habo Plaze and other locations without his would-be deputy, and Mwamtoa was not seen at further campaign events. MCA candidates under Awiti's Vibrant Democratic Party started leaving for Jubilee. A source from Awiti's campaign team said in confidence that they blundered in choosing a deputy before their rivals did. [VIDEO] Joho, Awiti supporters exchange blows at Luo Convention after MP kept off dais “We allowed them to mess us up. They started making advances the moment we unveiled Mwamtoa in Likoni,” he said. But on Wednesday, Joho said the Fisheries boss had good ideas and he did not help him to “dismantle” Awiti.  Mombasa Devolution executive Seth Odongo taking oath of office at Governor Hassan Joho's office, December 13, 2017/ ERNEST CORNEL “Some of us we do things differently. Just because he ran with my opponent … that story ended. Mombasa people spoke with ‘bang’… how can you even want to challenge something and you were seriously beaten,” Joho said. He added, “We have beaten Awiti. Some of the people who worked with him had tremendous and good ideas on life transformation. Why can’t we give them the opportunity. So we are saying he has never been our spy.” Joho said he believes in Mwamtoa’s ability to transform the lives of fishermen. Other executives who were sworn in are Seth Odingo (Devolution and Public Service), Fawz Ali (Trade, Tourism and Investment) and Fatma Awale (Water, Sanitation, and Natural Resources).  Mombasa Water executive Fatma Awale taking oath of office at Governor Hassan Joho's office, December 13, 2017/ ERNEST CORNEL Awale missed the first swearing-in held November 16, because he was outside the country, county director of communication Richard Chacha said. Awale was to take oath of office with other six executives whom she had been vetted with and approved together.  Mombasa Trade executive Fawz Ali with Governor Hassan Joho after being inaugurated, December 13, 2017/ ERNEST CORNEL They are Edward Nyale (Lands, Planning and Housing), Twafiq Balala (Transport, Infrastructure, and Public Works), Kevin Munyoki (Youth Gender, Sports, and Cultural Affairs) and Godfrey Nyongesa (Environment, Waste Management, and Energy). Others are Hazel Koitaba (Health) and Maryann Mbaruk (Finance and Economic Planning).  Mombasa executives at Governor Hassan Joho's office during their swearing in, December 13, 2017/ ERNEST CORNEL Click here for the latest political news  