Secessionist outfit MRC has dismissed links to NASA and coalition strategist David Ndii. On Sunday evening, police arrested Ndii at Leopards Beach Hotel in Diani, Kwale county, after trailing him from Nairobi. They bundled him into a vehicle, drove him to Nairobi overnight and grilled him at the DCI in Nairobi before releasing him on a Sh10,000 police bond without charges. On Tuesday, The Star revealed that police had put Ndii under 24-hour surveillance and believed the economist travelled to Diani last Friday to meet with and speak with MRC leaders. Ndii has also called for secession and declared that NASA leader Raila Odinga would be sworn-in as president on December 12. More on this: David Ndii was to meet Mombasa secessionists - police sources Also read: Civil rights at risk under Uhuru, activists say after David Ndii arrest But Richard Lewa, deputy spokesperson of the Mombasa Republican Council, termed the links an attempt to provoke and clamp down on members. "We are law-abiding people and will not be
lured into any trap. We have no association with Ndii, neither do we have any
association with NASA, Jubilee or any other political outfit," Lewa told The Star on Wednesday. “We are quietly going about our business and do
not need any linkages with political parties. Let the Jubilee government fight
its own wars with NASA without dragging us into them,” he added. Lewa and MRC Council of Elders secretary James
Malembi termed the government desperate, adding it wants to drag other people in its political war against NASA. Malembi said the outfit has been pushing for
secession through the courts after their previous attempts failed after their
members were killed in their hundreds by the police. “MRC wants the Coast region to secede from the
rest of Kenya but we have not violated the 2010 Constitution,” he said. “Linking us to political outfit is like
incitement,” Malembi noted. The MRC has been championing secession of the
Coast region, a concept that NASA has picked for its strongholds to be separated from the rest of Kenya. Lewa and Malembi on Wednesday said that theirs is a
legal outfit after the courts in Mombasa lifted a ban imposed on the group by
the government. “We have said several times that MRC is not
affiliated to any political outfit. We are independent and we are seeking
secession through legal means,” Lewa said. The outfit has suffered untold suffering
especially at the height of its secession push between 2011 and 2013. It was declared illegal by the government and its
leaders brutally rounded up, others killed. Its president Omar Mwamnuadzi was once reportedly assaulted by the police as they picked him up at his home in Kwale. He has ‘disappeared’, skipping several court
sessions and his whereabouts remain unknown. Lewa and Malembi said they have since become a law-abiding outfit with no political inclination. “We are still seeking secession of the Coast but
this time round it is through the courts,” Lewa said. Malembi said: “What the government is doing by referring to us
as an outlawed outfit is provocation." Read: 'Naive' David Ndii being used by Raila, says Mutahi Ngunyi Click here for the latest political stories