Masinde
Muliro University has put off plans to award Cotu Secretary General Francis
Atwoli an Honorary Degree during its 12th graduation ceremony on Friday. Vice
Chancellor Fred Otieno confirmed that the proposed award of Degree Humane Letters (Labour Relations) to Atwoli has been put off.
 "The
award will not go on as planned earlier and I refer you to the university
spokesman to give reasons as to why it will not proceed."
 The
university has denied claims that it was under pressure from the ministry of education to cancel the award on political grounds.
 "There
is no politics in this. The postponement is because the
process that is supposed to be followed before the award is not complete," Bob Mbori, MMUST spokesman, said. Mbori, who is also the convenor of the MMUST Honorary Degrees Awards Committee, said the senate and university council had advised that Atwoli's ceremony be held at another graduation in the near future.
 "“I
can assure you that the process has just been postponed but not cancelled.
Once we are through with what is required, it will proceed on the guidance of
the relevant authorities."  The university had on December 5advertised in a local newspaper that it had
nominated Atwoli for the degree following recommendations by the university senate
and council.  The university also wrote to Atwoli about the nomination for the
award. "The
award is in recognition of Atwoli's long service and commitment to the national,
regional and international trade union leadership," a statement
issued on the nomination of the award of the degree said. "He has championed social
justice, through progressive labour relations." It
further said Atwoli had shown unparalleled forthrightness in advocating for
worker’s rights, engaged in initiatives that contribute to industrial peace, and
ensured recognition of the contribution of the worker to sustainable development
through various activities.
 Atwoli, through his
PA Adams Barasa, said he had not received any formal
communication about the cancellation. He claimed that some members of the university council
had called Atwoli complaining they had been intimidated to cancel the award.
 "One
of the council members called Atwoli and told him that the government was not
happy with the plan because Atwoli was an opposition supporter," Barasa said.
 Human
rights activist Ken Wafula said the university should go on with the plan and
act independently instead of allowing itself to be intimidated by the
government.
 "We ask the government to let the university
carry out its mandate without interference," Wafula said.
 However, Mbori denied any interference in the university operations saying they had awarded former President Mwai Kibaki a similar honorary degree in 2008
and later did the same to former athlete Tecla Lorupe in 2009.
 Click here for latest political news  