Governor Granton Samboja has promised Taita Taveta residents that they will not lose "an inch of land" to neighbouring Kwale and Makueni counties. Samboja said on Wednesday that the will ensure boundaries remain intact amid disputes with Salim Mvurya and Kivutha Kibwana's counties. He said this after reports emerged that Mackinnon and Miasenyi areas of Taita Taveta were being curved out to form part of Kwale's new division. "Miasenyi and Mackinon road are in Taita Taveta. Our brothers from Kwale have lived in peace with us for all these years. We shall maintain peace," he said. "Taita Taveta leaders will not allow even an inch of land to be lost. Let Kwale stop encroaching on our land because they won’t get away with it. We will follow the 1963 and 1982 maps which clearly indicate the area in dispute is in Taita Taveta. We want a lasting solution to this problem." He spoke at Dawson Mwanyumba stadium in Wundanyi during Jamhuri Day celebrations on Tuesday. The Governor said he willll engage Mvurya in dialogue so the dispute that has lasted decades is settled. “I have called Mvurya. We will meet this week to discuss the matter. I will be with Senator Jones Mwaruma and other leaders." Read: NLC says it will resolve the Taita/Kwale boundary row Taita Taveta Majority leader Jason Tuja asked the provincial administration to swiftly convene a meeting between the two sides and have the matter settled before it escalates. Tuja said they will not allow the loss of revenue from Mackinon and other areas. “Our neighbors are taking advantage of our silence to collect revenue in Mackinnon town and the other areas they have encroached. Members of county assembly will not accept that. We fought the same in the last regime and the push is still on." In August 2015, Speaker Meshack Maghanga and Marungu MCA Paul Waweru were arrested and detained at Kinango police station after they put up a Taita Taveta sign post at Mwembeni near Mackinon town. This is what sparked the boundary dispute between the two counties. More on this: Taita MCAs pull down Makueni signpost Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers has also cried foul over the boundary dispute saying learning will be affected in Miasenyi and Mackinnon areas. In a statement to newsroom on Wednesday, the Taita Taveta branch executive secretary said the union would resist any attempts to curve out any areas as teachers are not ready to move. “In these areas, we have teachers employed under Taita Taveta. The new Mbele Secondary School in Mackinon town received the first principal from the Teachers Service Commission in December 2017," said Shedrack Mutungi. “We therefore request relevant offices to solve this dispute before schools open in January." Taita Taveta is in another boundary row with Makueni over a 65km stretch of land between Tsavo River and Mtito Andei town. Taita Taveta leaders argue the border between the two counties is in Mtito Andei town, therefore part of the town is its territory. But Makueni county claims the boundary is at Man Eaters near Tsavo River. Related: Coast counties to have digital land registries Click here for the latest political stories