National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has said that
he was overwhelmingly elected as Garissa Township MP in the August 8 General Elections.
 Duale was testifying in a case filed by former Deputy
Speaker Farah Maalim challenging his win. He told the court that elections took place smoothly and as
per the law in all polling stations and he received reports from all his agents
on the whole process. “I was reelected because of my good track record and have
served the people of Garissa Town for the past to 10 years,” Duale said. He further said that the whole constituency is his
stronghold with 95 percent of them believing in him, adding that even NASA
supporters voted for him. According to his analysis, the elections in
his constituency were satisfactory and met the standard required by law. In cross examination, Duale refuted claims that his brothers,
sisters and other relatives were bribing and buying votes before and after the
voting process. He said that he can account for every activity of his brothers
on elections day and said that his sisters could not have taken part in the
process. Dan Maanzo representing Maalim claimed that Duale had used
his influence in government to change the returning officer, days to the
elections. In response, Duale denied the allegations saying that he did
not play any role in recruitment of any elections official in Garissa town saying
that it is the mandate of IEBC and not his. He further claimed that the only time he met the returning
officer was when he was presenting his nomination papers and on elections day
at the tallying centre. Duale also alleged that it was Maalim who had infact given
IEBC a list of people who should have been employed by the commission to carry
out the elections. He also denied allegations by Maalim that there were deliberate
delays in his stronghold so that he could deny supporters a right to vote. Duale said that there was widespread delay and it not true
that the delays were only in Maalim’s strongholds. In the petition, Maalim wants the court to nullify the elections citing massive irregularities and illegalities. Justice Hedwig Ong’udi directed the parties to file their written
submission and appear in court on January 11 for oral submissions.              