HIV prevalence rate has gone down in Machakos county in what health experts attributed to increased uptake of ARVs. However, Angela Mule, a health official in Mavoko, said the war is still far from being won HIV/Aids remains a serious public health challenge. It emerged during the World Aids Day celebrations that decade-long efforts to curb the scourge has seen the county's prevalence stand at 4.5 per cent. "This is an opportunity for us to renew our commitment and
resolve in the war against HIV and Aids," Mule said at Mavoko stadium on Friday.  "For the past decade, we have consistently recorded decreasing HIV prevalence rates since the county government mounted
exceptional response to the epidemic." Mule said this was made possible with the support of the county government partners and the national government. "A review of the most recent data underscores the
epidemic's continuing threat but also demonstrates the extraordinary impact of policies put in place to address HIV." The health official said the figures are likely to improve if universal access targets for putting infected persons on treatment and care are realised.
 Mule attributed the situation to the fact that
whereas the number of people on ART had been increasing over time, those in
need are increasing at an even faster rate. She said unprecedented levels of financing is
required to support evidence-based efforts to address HIV in the wake of a desire to eliminate mother – to- child HIV
transmission. "With HIV infected individuals living longer as a
result of increased treatment access, we project that the number of people
living with HIV will continue to grow placing continuing demands on health and
social service systems," Mule said. Mule said the numbers of new infections among adults
as well as Aids-related deaths had come down drastically. She said such gains were in line with the country's
Sustainable Development Goals through which the country had made considerable
progress. Elsewhere in Kwale, health officials said the fight will focus on youths who are mostly affected by the condition blamed on idleness. Health chief officer Kishindo Mwaleso said idleness has seen more youths engage in premature sex and drug
abuse among other risky activities.  "We have come up with initiatives
that will get them engaged to reduce the rate of HIV transmission," he
said at celebrations in the county. Read: World Aids Day: Why traditional healers could help fight HIV Click here for the latest political news      