According
to the Treaty that established the East African Community, it is the preserve
of only the elected MPs of the EAC member states to elect the representatives.
But it is high time the method and formula for electing the EALA MPs should be relooked
at, to allow the citizens to directly elect their regional representatives. When
citizens are given a chance to elect them directly, the process becomes less
political. Political interests are now at play. If citizens elect them, the
process will be more objective and deserving individuals will be given a chance
to serve in the regional Parliament. At
the moment, Kenya is entitled to nine slots in the EALA, meaning should
citizens be allowed to elect MPs directly, a new formula will have to be
applied, so that all the regions are represented. For instance, Parliament can
decide and say that the political parties should nominate candidates from
the eight former provinces, then these candidates will campaign for votes
across the country as opposed to the case now, where the electors are only the
Senators and the Members of the National Assembly. The
one remaining seat will either be reserved for the youth, women or people with
disabilities. The
EALA has not had sittings for months now, due to political differences between
Jubilee and the then Cord (now NASA) and maybe if Kenyans were electing them
directly, there could not have been the stalemate that has paralyzed the
activities of the assembly.   The
EALA plays a critical role in laws and polices aimed at the integration of the
EAC region. Previous assemblies have had challenges here and there. The EAC governments
should commit themselves to the activities of the EALA, especially in
funding it. Kenya has been done its best in meeting its financial obligations.
During his inauguration, President Uhuru Kenyatta came out clearly on his
commitment to the integration of the region - socially, economically and
politically - and therefore the next crop of EALA MPs should ensure these
aspirations are implemented. There
are unfounded fears among some member- states over the political merger and these
should be among the MPs’ agenda. There
is an ambitious proposal that in future we should have one President for the
EAC region and the MPs who will be elected next week should start addressing
those fears that threaten a smooth integration. The writer is a former
nominated senator 