About 153 years ago, Phillips Brooks, an Episcopal priest and rector of the Boston Trinity Church wrote the timeless 'O Little Town of Bethlehem'.  Whether you believe that a Son was born in a manger in the town of Bethlehem or not, you sure do appreciate the awesome magic of Christmas. And in keeping with tradition, millions of Kenyans departed cities and towns and descended upon their villages to join kith and kin. These Kenyans created and endured long hours of chaotic gridlock and inconvenience. I salute their courage and wish them safe travels back to their urban abodes. This Christmas is unlike many in the past decades. This has been a tumultuous year and it is hard to say we are out the woods. While we are united with friends and relatives this Christmas, we are a divided country.  Nationhood still remains a hollow dream, an illusion, a mirage, and an unattainable aspiration. Unity of purpose and nationhood are by and large a figment of the imagination of not even our generation but of the idealistic founders of this country. While politics should be the ideal platform to negotiate and argue competing visions of nationhood and our collective progress, we have made politics a cauldron of vitriol and the coliseum of murderous ethnic zero sum game. When politics should be a battle for the hearts and minds of citizens, our politicians have deployed fear mongering and innuendo to cause sow division and cultivate ethnic hatred. While the President, according to our Constitution, is the symbol of unity our brand of politics has reduced this most high office to an ethnic trophy, a symbol of ethnic dominance and instrument for rewarding cronies and appropriating favor. How shameful! Over half a century after we earned independence, so many of our challenges represent the deep flaws in our politics. Our ethnic zero sum game has fueled bigotry, emboldened impunity greed, corruption that undermines a sense of duty to our fellow citizens and corrodes community. A cabal of ethnic elite across the political divide has enabled a rapacious variety of crony capitalists and their political acolytes. Hence, we see today dangerous gulf between the uber-wealthy and the tens of millions of Kenyans living in poverty and straining further our frayed social fabric. The rising tide of unemployment, a troubled education system, a crumbling public health system, food insecurity and roads that kill too many are an unforgiving reminder that we have work to do. We have work to do because our children still live in a country where they are judged not by the merit of the qualifications or character but by their tribal name. The inescapable truth is that we are all tied together in single cloth of destiny. As Dr Martin Luther King said, we either learn to live together as one people or perish together as fools. Let this Christmas be a period of deep reflection. Let us resolve to re-dedicate ourselves to building a great society, a strong nation. Alex Awiti is the director of the East Africa Institute at Aga Khan University Click here for the latest political stories