Kenya’s transition to a multiparty democracy in 1991 was one of the most promising cases of political change in Africa. Before then, Kanu had monopolised power since outlawing political opposition in 1982. The transition from a single to a multiparty state was a truly significant event.  Kanu faced its first real challenge since independence in multiparty
presidential elections held in 1992. But the party didn’t lose its grip
on power until President Daniel arap Moi lost to opposition leader Mwai
Kibaki in the 2002 elections. The next presidential elections of 2007
were marked by political violence in which more than 1,500 people were killed following claims that the two major candidates had manipulated the results. Despite this history of political instability, the country’s new
democratic direction was seemingly confirmed when the Kenyan Supreme
Court overturned
the results of the August 8 election. In a historic ruling for
Africa, it called for the presidential election to be repeated.  Initially many praised the court for upholding democracy. But weeks later the same court upheld Kenyatta’s second victory. A spokesman for the opposition coalition speculated that members of the Supreme Court were intimidated.  The turn of events in favour of President Kenyatta is not surprising.
It suggests that the process of free elections was never intended to
help the country democratise. This mirrors events in other seemingly
transitioning countries such as Zimbabwe and Senegal.  What is more, the process of opening up the political system could —
in and of itself — never have been expected to deliver democracy. This
was the case in Ukraine, where shortly after the fall of the Soviet
Union elections were expected to bring about a process of
democratisation similar to Poland’s in 1989. But democracy never arrived
in the Ukraine. Instead it plunged deeper into authoritarianism.  In Kenya’s case, elections have been used to bolster the legitimacy
of an autocratic regime. While Kenya holds free and regular elections,
political elites regularly intimidate the political opposition as well as
journalists and the judiciary. This effectively skews the results of each election in favour of the government.  Recent research on transitioning countries looks at how they have held regular multiparty elections at the national level, yet violated democratic minimum standards.  The research suggests that since the end of the Cold War countries
like Kenya, Turkey, the Ukraine and Zimbabwe have turned into the most
common form of nondemocratic rule in the world. As multiparty states ,
they have combined elements of both democracy and autocracy. Their rulers have learnt to use free multiparty elections in their favour.  Kenya’s story is a reminder that authoritarian regimes — even those
that look like democracies — are unlikely to go away anytime soon. Definitions of democracy vary. But most scholars
agree that to complete their transitions countries, including Kenya,
would have to meet a number of criteria. These include free, fair, and
competitive elections, full adult suffrage, freedom of the press, speech
and association and an executive free from external influence.  The last point indicates that no military, religious or civilian
organisation in the country can override the decisions of a fairly
elected executive.  While Kenya certainly meets many of the criteria, it struggles to meet two in particular.  The first is fair elections. The country has held regular free
elections since 1991 and it allows a number of political parties to take
part. But the elections can’t be described as having been fair.  A recent Amnesty International report
has condemned Kenya for routinely targeting the political opposition in an
effort to dissuade them from challenging the government. This includes
arbitrary arrests and even killings by the police in the 2017 elections. This uneven playing field can result in unfair elections. The second criterion that Kenya fails to meet  is freedom of the press,
speech and association. For a country to be democratic it should allow
basic political freedoms for its citizens and institutions.  This has not
been the case in Kenya. For example, the International Federation of
Journalists recently reported that journalists were routinely harassed and intimidated by the police and political party supporters in the 2017 elections.  Similarly, the bodyguard of one of the Supreme Court justice was shot and wounded a day before the court’s scheduled ruling on a motion to delay the repeat vote.  As a result of these serious shortcomings, Kenya cannot be viewed as a
democracy. The playing field remains uneven despite major
constitutional changes to guarantee an independent judiciary and to
establish a separation of powers in the government.  There have been clear examples — Poland in 1989 and South Africa in
1994 — where elections helped many countries successfully transition.
But elections, even free and competitive, don’t always mean that the
country is more democratic. There have been instances when they have
been used to help ruling politicians stay in power as happened in Ukraine, Turkey and Singapore. Kenya’s ruling elite too has learnt to use elections to its
advantage. Instead of weakening the elite’s grip on power, the elections
might actually make them stronger. Given this situation, and recent
events, it’s unclear whether Kenya will ever complete its transition to
democracy.   This article was first published by The Conversation