Masinde Muliro University Students’ Organisation has opposed the EACC’s recommendation to suspend Vice Chancellor Fredrick Otieno. In a letter dated November 10 to the chairman of the Masinde Muliro University Council, Dr Jeremy Bundi, the EACC directed that Otieno be suspended over alleged abuse of office, misuse of funds and employment irregularities. EACC CEO Halakhe Waqo said the suspension was based on his intimidation of staff through transfers, demotions, interdictions and dismissals. Waqo said the VC must pave the way for investigations. “Further, he has threatened to victimise whoever gives information as he continues to engage in corrupt practices, abuse of office and unethical behaviour in trying to cover up for the past vices and prevent our investigators from obtaining documents,” Waqo said. “The commission, therefore, recommends the suspension of Otieno to conclude investigations,” Waqo said In a press statement, MMUSO leaders said they are not satisfied with the report given by the EACC. “Masinde Muliro students are not satisfied with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission report. We do not agree with the decision of the commission to have the VC suspended,” they said. “Since Prof Otieno became the Vice Chancellor in 2013, the institution has experienced change. The accusations against the VC are politically motivated,” MMUSO president Brian Okeja told the press at the university. He said the VC has put up a spirited fight for MMUST to become a student –centred university and they had a lot of confidence in him The students said Otieno has developed infrastructure, he has raised academic standards, improved students’ welfare and security. He also supports the developing and nurturing students’ talent. But the university staff supports the suspension of the VC over alleged abuse of office and misuse of funds. Secretary general Charles Mukhwaya said in Mombasa the EACC found the VC culpable of the offences on November 10 and so he should be suspended to allow investigations. However, the University Council, chaired by Dr Jeremy Bundi, has refused to relieve Otieno of his duties as directed by the EACC.