The state yesterday announced a raft of measures targeting traffic police, driving schools and drivers as it seeks to curb rising road accident deaths. From December 1 to date, 180 lives have been lost in accidents. Drivers will undergo thorough vetting. Their ages and health will be checked before they acquire new digital driving licences next month. Related content : House team to meet officials in February over road carnage Should a driver flout traffic rules, the licence will be withdrawn. Drivers will be retrained. Transport CS James Macharia and acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i announced the new rules at a joint press conference at the Transport ministry yesterday. Speeding, lane indiscipline, driving under the influence and careless overtaking will be dealt with firmly. Bumps and footbridges will be erected in select parts of Nairobi. Macharia said pedestrians in the city contribute to 40 per cent of accidents. Drivers found speeding or driving under the influence of alcohol will have their licences revoked. Those who cause non-fatal accidents must redo a driving test. Macharia said PSVs that operate at night will be reviewed and saccos whose vehicles are involved in accidents will be banned. Also read : Tens feared dead after 15 vehicles crash in Sachangwan The Northern Corridor, Nairobi-Thika-Sagana, Mai Mahiu, Narok, Kisii, Kericho-Kisumu and Kisii-Ahero have been mapped as black spots. The public can report violations through hotline 0718-555-999 or 999/991. Matiang’i said: “This madness must stop. I have proposed a review of the traffic department.” He blamed the Judiciary for giving orders that 127 traffic police, implicated in bribery, to continue working. “We are perplexed and frustrated. The cases are not taken seriously,” Matiang’i said. Driving schools will be vetted and those that don’t meet the criteria will be deregistered. Matatu Owners Association Chairman Simon Kimutai blamed the police for soliciting bribes. “Traffic police officers need to undergo a lifestyle audit,”Kimutai said. Click here for the latest political news 