Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju has taken a swipe at US Senator who claimed the US government spent USD 100,000 (Sh10.3 million) to train farmers on how to use Facebook. Kentucky representative Paul Rand, via twitter, said: "It may not seem like a lot of money, but we spent just under $100k to make sure Kenyan farmers knew how to use Facebook." In his report to the House, Rand said the money was channelled through the USAID programme in Kenya to train farmers who suffer from "device illiteracy". "At least, this was the premise behind the Simu Shape Up: Edutainment to Shape Up Cell Phone use Among African Rural Farmers
program," Rand's report reads in part. He alleged that the idea was to use an "edutainment" model where short television programmes were
developed "to share the benefits of
mobile programming for agriculture." "The project produced segments
to air on the Shamba Shape Up television show," he said in reference to a reality format show
which aired on a local TV station in Kenya.  "The segments associated with this US taxpayer-assisted project
aired as part of episodes on June 19, September 11, and September 18,
2015."  His concern, according to the House report, was that the program was already using text messages as a tool to interact with
farmers, a year before USAID funded the program to improve
cell phone literacy among Kenyan farmers. "In
other words, farmers were already harnessing text messages and mobile
technology to help their farms, with the pace of progress likely only
increasing their numbers. American taxpayers, meanwhile, receive little
to no benefit from producing television infomercials telling foreign
audiences how to Google." The tweet did not go well with Tuju - a former Rarieda legislator, who said the tweet painted Kenya as a digitally illiterate nation. Quoting his authority as the "secretary of the biggest party in Kenya", Tuju brushed off the claims further reminding Rand that "Kenya is a leader on the continent on internet and social media usage." He asked the senator to state clearly where the monies were used . "For your information, like you, our parents are also on social media. Stop painting us as digitally illiterate," he said on Saturday. The conversation elicited mixed reactions among Kenyan and US twitter users with others asking whether the money was indeed disbursed to the country as Senator Rand claimed. Polycarp Hinga said: "More like ...somebody in the US enjoying that money and lying that they are funding "Facebook literacy" programs in Kenya." "We are saying that there's no US funded program to teach farmers how to use Facebook. We do not need money for that, we did not get money for that," he added. Hinga, a Jubilee activist, further posited that the US legislator was lying as "Kenya never received the said funds as claimed." Click here for the latest political news  