Chase Amira closed in on the top two teams following a 3-0 win over Sliders in a Kenya Hockey Union Women’s Premier League match at City Park Stadium, yesterday. Amira are now six points behind leaders Telkom and trail second-placed USIU-A Spartans by just a point separating them.  Linet Onyango’s charges dominated the game from kick off till the final whistle, whereas Sliders back line had torrid times in manning the free scoring Pauline Naise who waved past them at will. Naise was a constant menace to her markers, attracting more defenders to the center and consequently leaving the flanks well exposed. The presence of former Kenyan international Lorraine Nondi in Amira’s midfield was felt throughout the game as her purposeful touches and neat passes saw her side enjoy possession and maintain a tempo which their opponents found tough to march. Sliders, who had just one player on the bench employed a cautious approach going for space marking rather than pressing for goals. Getty Nandwa was at fault in the 13th minute when she stopped a goal bound shot using her limb and the umpire was left with no other choice than awarding a flick kick. Naise sent the resultant kick past the custodian handing her side a 1-0 lead in the first quarter. Sliders did little in scratching for a leveler and the best chance came in the 26th minute when a unmarked Charity Miller was teed up in the box but send her shot wide to waste. Naise produced an arguably goal of the season in the 37th minute when she successfully dribbled from the distance and rounded Sliders stopper Cate Opicha to slot home the second goal. Five minutes later, a rushing Opicha sustained a shoulder injury after parring to safety an effort by Lyn Mumbi. The game was thus stopped for almost ten minutes for paramedics to attend to the custodian. Opicha was forced to toughen up and return between the posts for the remainder of the game albeit the injury, due to lack of a reserves in Sliders bench. Yvette Kanyadong completed Amira’s scoring spree with a goal in the 57th minute when she picked a loose ball in Sliders’ box and send it past the troubled Opicha to write her name in the scoring charts. Amira’s head coach Linet Onyango challenged her side to put the same spirit in the remaining fixtures. “They (players) did a good job today (yesterday), and hopefully they replicate the same in the remaining matches. We still have a slim chance of catching up with Telkom,” she note. Sliders will seek to bounce back to winning ways when they play the Spartans on Wednesday.