2018 will be the year of "hard work" for Governors Jackskon Mandago and Stephen Sang as they will start solving their people's problems. Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Sang (Nandi), separately said the next year will be better after the grueling political season. During visits at children’s homes on Christmas Day, they promised to look into challenges that orphans, the elderly are other less fortunate people face. Sang noted Nandi has experienced tough seasons but that there will be transformation in the new year. “We now have to work hard as counties and as a nation because we have challenges such as poverty, illiteracy and general under-development to tackle." He added healthcare will be one of priorities, considering frequent nurses' strikes under former Governor Cleophas Lagat's administration. Sang said Nandi will become the model of quality healthcare. He added he had dealt with the drugs shortage matter and supplied equipment to hospitals. Related: Mandago, Sang and Tolgos lead Sh200b Industrial Park project in Uasin Gishu  Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago hands certificates at a farmers' meeting in Eldoret, December 18, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI The county boss asked workers to ensure they deliver services to residents because laziness will not be tolerated. "I pledged to ensure quality healthcare for the people of Nandi. We will first ensure adequate supply of drugs to all hospitals." He spoke on Monday when he flagged off the second consignment of drugs worth Sh60 million for distribution to all facilities. The drugs were provided by Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. Sang noted most patients are forced to travel to neighbouring counties to seek quality healthcare. "That will now be a thing of the past because we will ensure all hospitals have adequate drugs and other equipment." The Governor says he often consults nurses and doctors to ensure they support the transformation of the healthcare system in Nandi. Mandago hailed churches for their role in ensuring peace and reconciliation especially during the elections period. Click here for the latest political stories