One cannot ignore Deputy President William Ruto in a discussion concerning the 2022 general election. Ruto campaigned rigorously alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta, efforts which contributed to their victories in the August 8 and October 26 elections. He is expected to take over when Uhuru finishes his second term, primarily by consolidating Rift Valley and Mt Kenya numbers. Mt Kenya politicians and businessmen say they will back Ruto for President in 2022 but they want to control the choice of candidate for Deputy President. Read: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate More on this: DP Ruto, Moi reconciliation inevitable ahead of 2022, says Kajiado politician Sankori 'Bold, very energetic' Ruto took full charge of the re-election campaigns and led Jubilee Party in winning over Opposition leaders, what most analysts termed a bold step in strengthening his position. The DP is said to have been the brains behind the fielding of candidates for almost all elective posts, especially in areas deemed no-go zones for the ruling coalition. Ruto suffered a setback in 2010 - when the International Criminal Court named him a suspect in crimes against humanity in the 2007/8 post-election chaos - but recovered after the case was dropped. Uhuru faced similar charges but the cases were dropped over lack of evidence and what the ICC said was political interference. "The Deputy President is like a cat. He has more in him than you can tell. The energy and life in him is just amazing. He is not pushed down by anything that comes his way. Instead he spins it to make the best out of it," analyst Mwangi Mungai says. A source in Ruto's office says Ruto worked for at least 18 hours during the campaigns and never showed signs of fatigue no matter the terrain. "We would have 10 meetings in a day and he would still meet the people's estimates, have other staff and advisers' meetings in the evenings and wake up to get work done before kicking off the more campaigns. I have never seen such a man before...very energetic." Political marks The Deputy President was born on December 21, 1966 in Kamagut, Uasin Gishu. He studied Botany and Zoology at University of Nairobi and is married to Rachel. His name is commonly mentioned in the corridors of the Opposition given his boldness in handling political matters as well as taking on veterans led by ODM boss and NASA principal Raila Odinga. He joined ODM in 2005 and after the 2007 elections, the former Eldoret North MP played a key role in the formation of the grand coalition government that brought together Raila and former President Mwai Kibaki. He then rose to the agriculture and science and technology sectors as minister before forming URP party which was among 13 that collapsed to form Jubilee. In his stint at the Higher Education ministry, Ruto embarked on reforms to ensure institution offered quality education. The DP's illustrious career also saw him serve as member and chair of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Constitutional Reform. Plan for unsettled waters There has been speculation about Uhuru's likelihood to groom Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to succeed him. Son of former President Daniel Moi, Gideon has support in several Rift valley counties and is eyeing at least four slots in the President’s next Cabinet, a move that unsettles Ruto’s camp. More on this: Gideon Moi seeks influence in new Uhuru Cabinet Also read: I could back DP Ruto in 2022, says Gideon Moi But Ruto is expected to prop up his influence before the next election - the DP will be hard-pressed to appease the North Rift and South Rift divides, both of which are angling for his attention.  Ruto will also have to deal with some of the big names who lost the polls and blamed him. Analysts had opined that Ruto’s 2022 presidential ambition would suffer a heavy setback if key point men lost the election. But the DP has been glowing with fresh impetus and is said to be crafting a new line up of Cabinet Secretaries who will ensure leaders across the political divide get their share of the national cake. "We have been working round the clock, scanning through files and CVs for some of the biggest names in and away from politics," an aide who sought anonymity told The Star. "What I can assure you is that the next Cabinet is being worked on to ensure Kenyans get the best leaders who will propel the country towards 2022 ." Click here for the latest political new