Harambee Stars launch their Cecafa Senior Challenge title ambitions against Amavubi Stars of Rwanda at the newly refurbished Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega tomorrow. Stars 23-man squad yesterday flew to Kisumu before taking a bus ride to Kakamega where the clash against Rwanda will set the tournament rolling. It will be a battle between familiar foes with the hosts looking to revenge a last edition quarterfinal drubbing that ended their title ambitions. Rwanda who named a squad of players purely from their local leagues are poised to use the tournament as a yardstick for next year’s Africa Nations Championships. So brutal was the Rwandan coach, former Harambee Stars coach Antoinne Hey, that he couldn’t even accommodate on-fire Gor Mahia forward Jacques Tuyisenge, who would have provided tactical input to the Amavubi by virtue of his understanding of almost all the players in the Kenyan side. It will be a match that Hey will be looking forward to getting a result from owing to the manner in which he was treated by his former employers. The match will also see former Harambee Stars head coach Antoine Hey return to face his former employers and fans who heavily criticized him during his stay in the country. With Put yet to fully study his charges, expectations are sky high that experienced members of Harambee Stars playing unit may earn starting berths. Put will have a selection headache right from the word go with the goalkeeping trio pf goalkeepers Boniface Oluoch, Gabriel Andika and Patrick Matasi having impressed for their clubs in the just concluded SportPesa Premier League. Experienced Jockins Atudo is set to start at right back at the expense of AFC Leopards rookie Dennis Sikhayi. Sofapaka’s Wesley Onguso will rival Zoo Kericho’s Isaac Kipyegon at left back. At the heart of the defence, Put will find it tough in picking his trusted duo amongst Gor Mahia duo of Wellington Ochieng and captain Musa Mohammed, Bernard Ocheing of Vihiga United and Charles Momanyi of Kakamega Homeboyz. Good choices awaits the bench in the midfielder where the defensive duo of Leopards’ Duncan Otieno of Ernest Wendo of Gor Mahia are stand-outs. Karibangi Sharks’ Patillah Omotto faces Mathare United’s Chripsin Oduor in the playmaker’s role while Said Tsuma of Thika United, Whyvonne Isuzza of Leopards and Sharks’ winger Novella Ocheing are also in contention. Upfront, SportPesa Premier League top scorer, Masoud Juma like a sure bet to start with Put finding him a part in Nakumatt’s Kepha Aswani, Leopards’ Vincent Oburi and Gor Mahia’s George Odhiambo.