The Employment and Labour Relations Court has ordered Kenya Airways to reinstate the sacked 157 engineers and technicians with immediate effect pending the hearing and determination of a suit contesting their sacking. Justice Hellen Wasilwa said it is very unsafe for passengers to fly on planes that are not serviced, given that it is a high travelling season. "I am like any other passenger who uses flights to travel and it is risky to use planes which have not been serviced since all the engineers and technicians have been sacked, I therefore order KQ to reinstate them with immediate effect", the judge ruled. KQ had applied for an adjournment stating that they needed more time to file their response before any orders are given by the court. However, the engineers lawyer, Dismas Wambola, argued that the court should give an order for the engineers to be reinstated as KQ files their responses. KQ has until today to submit their responses pending the hearing on Wednesday. Last week, the court ordered KQ to refrain from replacing the engineers and also suspended an action by the airline to fire them after they moved to court to challenge their dismissal. “Pending inter-partes hearing and determination of this application, an order be and is hereby issued against the respondent directing the suspension of the purported dismissal of the applicants and maintenance of the status quo with no loss of seniority, privileges, salary, benefits and allowances,” the court order stated. The court also directed the national carrier not to take any arbitrary, unfair or unlawful disciplinary measures against the applicants who are yet to receive their dismissal letters, by way of dismissal, suspension or interdiction from service or by way of harassment, intimidation or victimisation or by any other means whatsoever. According to a penal notice issued by the court's registrar, the national carrier, which last week advertised vacant positions in its technical department, risks being sued for contempt of court, among other penal consequences, on instances where it fails to obey the stated orders. Last month, about 140 technicians and engineers of the airline went on a go-slow demanding better remuneration, a move that threatened massive flight cancellation and service disruption. They are demanding a minimum pay of Sh340, 000 for technical assistants and Sh1.2 million for the highest paid engineers. The case will be heard tomorrow.