The
teachers themselves across the country are already moving to their new workstations,
or schools. It is other people outside the schools – and maybe outside the
education sector talking – about the transfers when the parties involved are
already on the move.  The teachers already have the letters from the TSC
and have obeyed the instructions to move to the new stations. We
are not reading malice from the transfers and understand it’s a normal process
of managing workers who happen to be the teachers. Read: Why principals were transferred But
the challenge is that some neighbourhoods do not want teachers to come from far
or distant counties. So, that is the only main challenge to the employer – the
Teacher’s Service Commission. We
are taking stock and we will address the challenges when we get the full report
of who is against whom. We are also auditing the challenges the teachers face
in the transfers and we will respond to them at the right time. We will inform
you of every development. We
believe the transfers are not punitive but meant to enhance the education sector.
From the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education teachers’ point of view, we are
not reading any malice. It is a process of managing workers by their employer.
The government has no role in the current policy shift.  If the employer has
chosen to transfer you as his/her employee, it is entirely normal. Read: Sossion threatens strike over 'inconsiderate' transfer of 557 principals Some
people view the policy shift differently, but I believe it’s not bad for the
education sector. The transfers should be done on a fair basis, not as a
punishment to the teachers. From
where I sit, I have not been transferred and I can only complain if the said
principals are complaining. The union represents the teachers and their
interests come first.  A
sample number of principals who have been transferred have moved far away. I
know of one who has been transferred from Western to Machakos.  The
government must pay disturbance allowance to address the logistical challenges
the teachers face. They have to travel, some have to move with the families and
pay rent, among other costly demands, as they settle in their new places. On
security, and what happened in Garissa is a very different issue and I can’t
talk about it now, because the issues are very different.  For
me, I am just preparing to open the New Year. The writer is the Kuppet Secretary General  Click here for more political news  