IEBC boss Ezra Chiloba was ready to be the scapegoat for the sake of a lawful and credible election. The Chief Executive Officer said this on Wednesday night, noting he had no regrets about the original August 8 general election and the October 26 repeat. He noted his role was to put in place an implementation plan for the will of the people to be safeguarded during election processes. Chiloba said whoever holds the chief executive post at the commission will be blamed unless the country changes its political culture. “Unless we change the political culture, whoever holds that office will remain the subject of discussion. I was a sacrificial lamb." "IEBC expected protests" The CEO said the agency had prepared for resistance from losers and dismissed sustained electoral reform calls by the National Super Alliance, saying they were met. “We had a checklist of the changes NASA had demanded. When we implemented them, they did not return to IEBC to respond." Among NASA's demands were an audit of electoral processes, changes in the human resources department and for Dubai-based company Al Ghurair not to print ballot papers. “NASA had all reasons to participate in the re-run," the CEO said during an interview on Citizen TV. He added: "I did not cave because of political pressure or protests because all that was expected. That is the reason I did not seek leave when people wanted me to leave." “If there was a valid reason for me to leave office, it was not protests. I won’t be pushed out of IEBC due to political pressure." Chiloba took a break on October 20 after Raila and Kalonzo pulled out of the election.  IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba before a press conference at Bomas of Kenya, September 28, 2017. /Victor Imboto NASA candidate Raila Odinga rejected results of the first poll and petitioned the results at the Supreme Court, which ordered a re-rerun against President Uhuru Kenyatta. He boycotted the repeat amid violent protests in his strongholds and later announced a national resistance movement in the push for reforms. The resistance will see him and Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka sworn-in as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya should their plans materialise. Raila, Kalonzo and co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma Senator, Ford Kenya) have been criticised for this plan and asked to shelve it. Read: Raila is 'naked, unattractive' to Kenyans, Savula says on swearing-in "A few mistakes are normal" The CEO insisted the commission delivered a credible poll in August and that the "few mistakes" during the process were expected. "When people allege fraud or other mistakes and question the credibility of the poll, they should also provide evidence," he said  "In elections, especially those that use technology, think twice when it is too perfect because there is no 100 per cent outcome in polls." On former commissioner Roselyn Akombe who resigned and revealed alarming troubles at IEBC, Chiloba said: “We disagreed with her views on how to manage the elections. He said the resignation pulled their team together and motivated better performance. "Raila is reasonable" The CEO noted he had no problem with Raila whom he described as a reasonable person. "I could say I speak with Raila once in a while over matters of national importance at a personal level. Many may not believe this but it is the truth." Chiloba further called on the government to focus on a conclusive report on the death of ICT Manager Chris Msando with days to the election. "I know investigations into his death are ongoing but it's very important for the nation to see justice being done in the new year. It is very unfortunate that his death was politicised and that others drew conclusions when investigations were still in motion." Read: It is no secret Jubilee killed Jacob Juma, Chris Msando - Wetang'ula Related: Politics, murders and strikes: Kenya's biggest stories in 2017 Click here for the latest political stories