The 2010 Constitution devolves power from the presidency and creates independent governance institutions. As talk about dialogue rages, a key plunk ought to be restoring the independence of the institutions that form the architecture of electoral justice. Jubilee has impaired them in a vain attempt to recreate an imperial presidency. The National Police Service: While the Constitution delinks it from the presidency and changes its character from a force to a civilian service, claw back on its independence has made it an appendage of the presidency. The police are now under the direct command of the President, through the Ministry of Interior. The President now appoints the Inspector General of Police, as opposed to the previous rigour of the National Police Service Commission. The spectacle of a minister issuing draconian decrees and police duly executing them is captured in horrid killings, beating and maiming of protesters. Extrajudicial killings have now been extended to livestock as happened in Laikipia county. The internal ombudsman, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, tries but has become a mortician. The NPSC itself is a foster child of scavenging Jubilee; police reform aborted dramatically. Its chairman remains a figurehead, content to sit through his tenure as the NPSC fades into oblivion. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission: No institution has suffered public opprobrium and receded into irrelevance like the EACC. Initially tasked with eradicating corruption, Integrity Centre has become the persistent arbiter where high-end thieves get cleansed and licensed to launder proceeds of corruption. Why do they hesitate to pick up where the Auditor General left off? Amendments to the EACC Act make a meek agency, while the presidency's spadework ensures only pliant appointees head the commission herded by a secretariat beholden to State House. Nothing is more pityingly graphic than the speed at which former commissioners were spewed out, the law changed to give the President powers to make appointments and pliable Archbishop Eliud Wabukala's team shoed in. It was embarrassing when a list the President delivered to Parliament turned out to be a ruse, a smokescreen to protect the corrupt. As intended, most corruption cases in court have collapsed. Judiciary: The most blatant takeover was the short-lived seizure of the Judicial Service Commission to become a department of the Presidency. A most brazen Parliament attempted to scrap the JSC and allow the President unfettered powers to appoint all judicial officers, including the Chief Justice, as was in the days of yore. When the presidency encroaches on agencies meant to check the excesses of an overbearing Executive, the danger of regressing into dictatorship is real. “It is essential that independent institutions play their role in nurturing the rule of law. The country is in a difficult political and economic moment. It is in precisely such moments that independent institutions must exude confidence, execute their mandates with vigour and professionalism,” remarked Chief Justice David Maraga. But how compliant is the post-election Judiciary? Jubilee's bag of tricks has not been depleted. Jubilee infiltrated the JSC membership. The President went on the warpath and insulted the CJ. The Jubilee denouement to recalibrate the Judiciary into its image was when the Supreme Court couldn’t raise a quorum. It later made nonsense of a presidential petition; the judgment was obfuscation on how to mitigate innocence when found guilty as charged. And then we have an unconstitutional law that says any judge can swear a president-elect. Devolution would have been off the books if Jubilee had its way. Unfortunately, devolution isn’t an agency like the Council of Governors Jubilee is salivating over, but an entrenched system of government. Trouble is how to wrench devolution from the Constitution and erase it from people’s lives. There hasn’t been an easy formula other than sabotage. Were Jubilee to call a referendum, they’ll be walloped. The only option is to go the 1960s way of incapacitation of majimbo by financially starving counties. Treasury ostentatiously doles out funds when it wants, to whichever county it pleases. The counties are strangled by debts inherited from local authorities, then agencies of the national government. Worse, Jubilee offloaded retrenchable workers onto counties, creating a bloated workforce gobbling up 80 per cent of county budgets, leaving little for capital investments.  Then there are malleable ‘independents’ such the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, National Cohesion and Integration Commission, Kenya National Human Rights Commission and National Gender and Equality Commission who’ve capitulated to political correctness. Communications, publications and conflict management specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,