Eyes will today be on President Uhuru Kenyatta as he leads the nation in marking the 53th Jamhuri Day celebrations amid a push for dialogue. Uhuru’s speech at the 60,000-seater Kasarani Stadium, where he was sworn in for a second term exactly a fortnight ago, could rekindle or diminish hope for a post-election political truce. The President is expected to use his first official national celebration, since taking oath for his final term, to lay out his development plan for the next five years as he seeks to secure his legacy. Uhuru will also seek to outline the immediate measures his government plans to take to resuscitate the economy, which has suffered following a prolonged electioneering period. Chronic unemployment, skyrocketing cost of living and the ballooning public sector wage bill are also expected to top Uhuur's agenda. Today’s celebrations comes less than 48 hours after NASA leader Raila Odinga suddenly cancelled his planned ‘swearing in. Politicians and religious leaders hope Uhuru will seize the moment and rally for national unity. Raila, Uhuru’s foremost political opponent, had said he would today be sworn in as president of Kenya. The ceremony was called off on Sunday evening, ostensibly to pave way for dialogue. Raila was under immense pressure from the international community, religious leaders and the civil society, who all cautioned that his swearing-in would herald fresh chaos. Yesterday, ODM Secretary for Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi said Uhuru must come up with a clear roadmap for dialogue that will guide the country out of the political standoff. “As patriots, we will always be open to structured dialogue in the best interest of the country. No particular party can benefit out of the current state paralysis and our leadership has outlined the agenda for discussion that must include electoral justice,” Wandayi told the Star. He said opposition MPs will be attending the celebrations as an honour to the national fete in which Kenyans will be celebrating 53 years of self-rule. The 2013 presidential candidate, James ole Kiyiapi, asked Uhuru to strike a conciliatory tone and reach out to the opposition in a bid to lower political temperatures. “After tomorrow, the President should come up with a structured way of engagement so that we resolved some of the contentious issues and agree on a way forward,” Kiyiapi told the Star in a telephone interview. He asked Uhuru to appreciate Raila’s decision not to be sworn in as a positive gesture that should compel government and political leaders to tone down and give dialogue a chance. “We don't need confrontational hardliners. The President will be held responsible for the direction the country heads. With the help of envoys we can sort out the issues," Kiyiapi said. The state yesterday said it had invited Raila and other NASA principals and opposition leaders to the Jamhuri Day celebrations. “We ask NASA leaders to attend the Jamhuri Day celebration because this country is for us all,” Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe said. “We are very keen on having the public focus on the problems we are facing as a country. We would like to tackle unemployment, poverty and poor infrastructure together, whether you are in NASA or Jubilee,” Kiraithe added.