AG Githu Muigai has scolded "ignorant and mischievous" lawyer politicians for lying to Kenyans about treason. Muigai did not name any specific person but was referring to Siaya Senator James Orengo who is also the lead lawyer of the Opposition coalition. The Attorney General has warned that treason is punishable by death after the party said they will swear in NASA chief Raila Odinga.  "High treason" is what Muigai used to refer to moves for a parallel government. But Orengo slammed the AG, saying he should go back to law school.  "Treason is not an easy offence to prove ... AG is using threats and living at a different time. Kenya is not a colony anymore," Orengo said. Raila wants to be inaugurated through the People's Assembly on a date that is yet to be communicated to the public after it was postponed from December 12. Read: What is treason? The case of defiant NASA chief Raila Odinga Speaking during the launch of 'National Action Plan on Legal Aid' in Nairobi on Monday, Muigai said the politicians should stop being reckless and instead be truthful to the law. "Lawyer politicians mislead the country. Young people must call out these 'legal dinosaurs' and help the public appreciate what is really the law," he said. "As a group of public intellectuals, they comment on every issue. And the more louder they are, the more ignorant they become.We owe the public a duty of care." Muigai said the individuals must be stopped at any cost adding that they are misinforming the public. "We must stop these reckless individuals from misinforming the public. We have the law which is clear. These people are mischievous and misinformed. I would have thought that treason was basic knowledge," he said. "Senator politicians can not shut up on issues they have no idea about." He further slammed politicians writing in opinion pages who calim that he should not comment on the law. "Fellows writing opinion pages they are saying AG should not comment on law ... the AG is the chief legal adviser and the defender of the rule of law," he said. Muigai urged the young law students to help Kenya through great debates adding that "Great debates are taking place and will shape the future of you and your future." "Do not allow this debate to be arrested with a group of ignorant individuals," he said. Last week, Raila told foreign envoys that he is ready to face treason charges if that is what it requires to achieve justice. He said unless President Uhuru Kenyatta reaches out to him in person, he will go ahead with his swearing-in ceremony. "Let them charge me for treason. I am ready," he told envoys led by US ambassador Robert Godec The NASA leader met with them a day after telling the US off for interfering with Kenya's affairs. More on this: I'm ready to pay for treason, Raila says after meeting envoys Also read: 'Constitution my foot': Raila asks US to stop interfering with Kenya's affairs Recently, the Supreme Court termed the mandatory death sentence unconstitutional with relation to Section 204 of the penal code, which metes out the death sentence for capital offences including murder, treason and robbery with violence. 'ACTION PLAN' The Attorney General said the launch on Legal Aid Kenya is an indication that the government is committed to protecting human rights. "This plan will go a long way in positioning legal aid in the top most agenda of our government. It aims to build stronger legal aid institutions," he said. Muigai said the government is committed to fostering transparency and accountability in the dispensation of its obligations under the national, regional and international legal framework on access to justice.  He noted that the five-year National Action Plan is aimed at ensuring access to justice for all as enshrined in the constitution. Click here for latest political news