Kenyans were treated to a bizarre turn of events in the run-up to the October 26 presidential rerun. On September 7, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati rebuked commission CEO Ezra Chiloba in an explosive memo for the mess that roiled the August 8 polls. But five commissioners immediately disowned Chebukati and dismissed his memo as “in-factual and misleading”. In response, however, commissioner Paul Kurgat sent out a statement rejecting he was part of the five, before sending yet another to say that he indeed was. This confusion was just an example of the power games and political intrigues that played out at the IEBC ahead of the repeat presidential vote on October 26. Divisions began after the Supreme Court, in a historic ruling, nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s August 8 victory on September 1. On one side was Chebukati and two commissioners, Margaret Mwachanya and Roselyn Akombe, who pushed for a grand house cleaning, including having Chiloba get the sack. But IEBC vice chairperson Consolata Maina teamed up with the rest of the four commissioners to veto decisions that were seen as unfavourable to Jubilee. The boardroom wars degenerated into verbal and near-fistfights among commissioners, amid tension in the country as NASA staged anti-IEBC demos to push out alleged partisan staff. “As a lawyer, I cannot continue to be pushed by majority commissioners to accept legal opinions that serve partisan interests and are not grounded in the Constitution and law. At the least, this is intellectual dishonesty for which my professional training demands that I abhor,” Chebukati protested on October 18. This was the same day Akombe dramatically resigned and fled to New York, terming the upcoming polls a “mockery to electoral integrity”. In the leaked memo to Chebukati, Akombe documented how Chiloba allegedly sabotaged key election plans, including a critical committee she chaired. She said Chiloba disregarded her committee on election operations and took weighty issues directly to the commission plenary. At the plenary, the perceived pro-Jubilee commissioners backing Chiloba vetoed proposals by the outnumbered Akombe-Chebukati wing. “It appears the secretariat has deliberately decided to render the committee dysfunctional, hence making my oversight role and that of two commissioners on that committee obsolete,” Akombe wrote. On the day of Akombe’s resignation, Chebukati gave the clearest signal that he would resign and warned that he could not guarantee the credibility of the polls. He said he could not oversee the election without an agreement between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga. “In the past few weeks, a leading candidate who garnered more than six million votes withdrew from the race. While it is his right, we must think beyond him and think of the six million Kenyans who will feel disenfranchised by this action. Do we just go on as if this withdrawal means nothing?” he said. Chairman planned to quit? It’s understood that two days to the repeat election, Chebukati had drafted a resignation statement. Sources told the Star Chebukati even asked his former ideological soulmate Akombe to review the resignation statement, promising to hang up his boots before the vote. On the day Chebukati was to “resign”, drama openly played out at the Bomas of Kenya — the IEBC National Tallying Centre — pitting commissioners against the IEBC boss. The commissioners, led by vice chairperson Nkatha Maina, attended several meetings — including with police chiefs — in Chebukati’s absence. The chairman was said to be operating from a nearby room, while the other four commissioners were only a stone’s throw away within the same facility. But on October 25 , the Supreme Court was set to hear a far-reaching case that had the potential to postpone the repeat vote. There was speculation Chebukati, through his lawyer Peter Wanyama, was supporting the postponement of the election, but an affidavit to that effect has never been made public. The Supreme Court hearing aborted over a quorum hitch. Immediately, Chebukati announced it was all systems go and his team was ready to deliver a credible poll. On October 31, Raila said that six days before the rerun, Chebukati had told him he would seek postponement in court or resign from the commission. “He [Chebukati] told us in his own words that he was not able to deliver a credible election. But he was going to meet with Uhuru on Monday and tell him as much, and then move to court, or he would resign,” the NASA principal said. Also Read:Uhuru vs Odinga 2017 race: The historic election that is yet to settle Click here for latest political news