The US has had its share of civil unrest and destructive demonstrations for decades. However, the one that stands out was in 1991, following the acquittal of four Los Angeles police officers, who had brutally beaten Rodney King, an African-American motorist, after a high-speed pursuit. The incident of this Black motorist was caught on videotape and the footage aired repeatedly on television news for an entire year, rousing outrage and leaving few doubting the police could not walk free upon trial. They actually did. On April 29, 1992, all the four officers involved in the brutal beating were acquitted, leading to widespread arson, assault and looting, killing 53 people and injuring thousands more by angry Los Angeles residents, making this the costliest episode by far of civil unrest in US history. The costliest and worst civil unrest we have had in Kenya was in 2008, when the country nearly plunged into a civil war after the state machine denied then and still deny leading opposition leader Raila Odinga victory in an election many to this day believe he won. Ironically, it took Raila’s connections and friends in Washington, DC, and London, among other places, to broker a peace deal that resulted in the country averting a civil war through the formation of a coalition government with the beneficiary, if not the architect of the election theft, President Mwai Kibaki. When the election of 2013 approached, many , including Raila, hoped Kibaki would return the favour and help the Prime Minister assume the high office as his successor. This was taking into account he was reelected under extremely dubious circumstances and that his election in 2002 was largely owing to Raila toshaing him.  He didn’t and the rest is history save to note, even though it’s true UhuRuto rigged Raila out in 2013 in the first round, they didn’t have to for had they not rigged and gone on to face Raila alone in the second round, the duo would have cleanly won, given the dynamics of the Raila campaign at the time. UhuRuto not only rigged Raila out in 2013, when they didn’t have to, but also massively rigged the man out this year, leading the Supreme Court to annul their election. And simply on account of the sheer massiveness of their rigging, they couldn’t open the servers for the world to see. But still, there was plenty of evidence to point to the massive rigging. In what this writer and others believe was an unusual miscalculation, Raila withdrew as a candidate and asked his supporters to boycott the fresh election, leading to Uhuru being declared winner with 98 per cent of the vote — only about three million of the 19 million registered voters showed up to vote. Two petitions challenging the declaration of Uhuru as president were rightly tossed out — no one seriously expected the Court to grant either of the petitions, knowing Raila boycotted the polls, notwithstanding he was not a petitioner. With the Supreme Court having cleared the way, UhuRuto were sworn in amidst pomp and circumstance at Kasarani Stadium, but any objective observer aware of the undercurrents couldn’t but wonder why the jubilation and excitement by those present but far removed from the VIP dais. Raila surprised everyone after saying he wouldn’t be sworn in. He now says he will be sworn on December 12 and, accompanied by NASA supporters, march to State House and forcibly evict Uhuru and take over power. Uhuru Kenyatta and Jubilee are prepared to counter these plans with brute force, meaning from that day onward we either have a country or we won’t. If nothing beckons the two leaders to come together and agree on the way forward that avoids such a calamity, and more so Uhuru, nothing will and neither leader will escape blame and condemnation, if not worse with Uhuru taking the lions share for obvious reasons.     Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator based in the United States