The High Court has temporarily reinstated the four Jubilee MPs who had been removed from various house committees after they went against their party’s preferred candidates.  Alfred Keter, Silas Tiren, Kangogo Bowen and James Gakuya had sued Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, Majority Leader Aden Duale and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for discriminating against them.  The four were elected to head the Labour and Social Welfare Committee (Keter), Agriculture and Livestock Committee (Tiren), Environmental and National Resources Committee (Bowen) and Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library Committee (Gakuya) during the election held on December 20. The election of the four is alleged to have infuriated the party leadership as it had indicated its lineup behind the scenes. Justice John Mativo’s stay order means they will continue to head the committees, until the hearing and determination of the case. They want the court to quash the decision by the Chief Whip and Majority Leader to discharge them from the committees. They argue that dewhipping them was unreasonable and irrational. “The Jubilee Party disciplinary mechanisms, if any, were never instigated and as such the Chief Whip acted whimsically, arbitrarily and without any colour of right by purporting to discharge us from the various departmental committees,” they said. They also say they had not been given any valid reason for their removal. The MPs argue that it has not been alleged or proven that they behaved in a manner that is inconsistent with the vision and the policies of the party. They also say that all through the nomination and the election process to their various committees, no objection was raised as to their capacity to stand for office. Through lawyer Francis Walukwe, the legislators argue they were not given an opportunity to be heard. “I’m aware the President and the Deputy President are not members of the departmental committees of the National Assembly and as such their opinions would not matter over and above the decision of members of the respective committees,” Keter says in his affidavit. He says they are free to vie for any position and they should not be given directions by anyone as to what positions to vie for or not. Early this month, Rift Valley MPs came to the defence of the JP lawmakers who were dewhipped from House committees. The meeting was convened by Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny. This came after they defied President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive on his preferred lineup. The so-called rebels are said to have colluded with NASA lawmakers to contest committee leadership. In surprise victories, Keter and Tiren were elected chairpersons of the Labour and Social Welfare and Agriculture committees, respectively. Keter defeated Ali Wario of Bura, who had been preferred by Uhuru. Kangogo was also elected, against Uhuru’s wishes. He defeated Sophia Abdi of Ijara, whom Uhuru had endorsed. Read:Jubilee MPs return to committees, want Washiali, Duale impeached More on this: Jubilee MPs go to court after 'irrational' removal from committees Click here for latest political news