Gatundu South Mp Moses Kuria risk being slapped with a heavy fine for claiming Martha Karua procured witnesses to fix Deputy President William Ruto at The Hague. Karua, a former justice Minister is demanding Sh 20 million from the Mp as damages in the defamation suit. Kuria made sensational claims during a political rally in Kapsokwony in Bungoma County on September 21, 2015. He claimed that he, Karua and other leaders met at Galileo in Westlands area, where they schemed and came up with the plot on how to recruit witnesses against Ruto, who was then facing crimes against humanity following the 2007-2008 post-election violence. But despite demands for unconditional apology and being sued, Kuria did not defend the suit even after being given chances to do so by the court last month. Yesterday, High court judge Joseph Sergon who is handling the case said he will issue a judgment on Friday December 15. “The defendant has not responded to the suit as agreed, we urge this court to give its judgment,” Karua’s judge Gitobu Imanyara said yesterday. When she testified in the case, the Narc- Kenya leader said she asked Kuria to apologize for making the scandalous statements, but he went ahead and called a press conference at Parliament Buildings and reiterated his claims. Karua said allegations that he fixed DP Ruto injured her personal credit and reputation as well as standing as a politician, business lady, family woman and an advocate. She also explained that the meeting at Galileo was also attended by other people including, President Uhuru Kenyatta, and had nothing to do with the cases at the ICC.  It was called to raise funds for post-election victims, she claimed. The former Gichugu Mp further said Kuria’s claims amounts to criminal offence as it damaged her image locally and internationally.  “The claims are scandalous, malicious, unwarranted and lowered my dignity among right thinking members of the society,” she said. She told the court that she has never met Kuria nor discussed anything to do with the procurement of fake witnesses for the International Court. For this reason, she is demanding aggravated damages, saying the claims by Kuria were malicious, unwarranted and defamatory.  