IEBC boss Ezra Chiloba was ready to be the scapegoat for the sake of a lawful and credible election. The Chief Executive Officer said this on Wednesday night, adding the commission had prepared for resistance from losers of the original August 8 general election. NASA candidate Raila Odinga rejected results of this poll and petitioned the results at the Supreme Court, which ordered a re-rerun against President Uhuru Kenyatta on October 26. He boycotted the repeat amid violent protests in his strongholds and later announced a national resistance movement in the push for reforms. The resistance will see him and Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka sworn-in as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya should their plans materialise. Raila, Kalonzo and co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma Senator, Ford Kenya) have been criticised for this plan and asked to shelve it. Read: Raila is 'naked, unattractive' to Kenyans, Savula says on swearing-in  IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba before a press conference at Bomas of Kenya, September 28, 2017. /Victor Imboto Chiloba noted: "I did not cave because of political pressure or protests because all that was expected. That is the reason I did not seek leave when people wanted me to leave." He took a break on October 20 after Raila and Kalonzo pulled out of the election. Chiloba insisted the commission delivered a credible poll in August and that the "few mistakes" during the process were expected. "When people allege fraud or other mistakes and question the credibility of the poll, they should also provide evidence," he said during an interview on Citizen TV. "In elections, especially those that use technology, think twice when it is too perfect because there is no 100 per cent outcome in polls." The CEO noted he had no problem with Raila. "I could say I speak with Raila once in a while over matters of national importance at a personal level. Many may not believe this but it is the truth." Chiloba further called on the government to focus on a conclusive report on the death of ICT Manager Chris Msando with days to the election. "I know investigations into his death are ongoing but it's very important for the nation to see justice being done in the new year. It is very unfortunate that his death was politicised and that others drew conclusions when investigations were still in motion." Read: It is no secret Jubilee killed Jacob Juma, Chris Msando - Wetang'ula Related: Politics, murders and strikes: Kenya's biggest stories in 2017 Click here for the latest political stories