Lobbyists in Mombasa have disclosed plans to petition the Gambia-based  African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights over police brutality in Kenya. Haki Africa, a human right organisation, on Monday said they are documenting the cases to ensure justice is served for those killed and maimed by police. Fransis Auma, an official, said it is worrying that police are involved in killings, maiming and enforced disappearances yet no action has been taken against the vices. "We are going to
present the case in Banjul, Gambia. We are telling police bosses that their days are numbered. This is our country and we want peace." He did not specify the time-frame. Read: Savula to write to ICC to probe police brutality During a press conference in Kwale, Auma challenged IPOA to only check on deaths but also intervene on cases of police harassment, which he said are on the rise. "Kenya will be going for a review in Geneva and they will present those cases too. This will in future discourage police from misusing power." "It might take time but we are not cowards and those participants must face the rule of law," Auma said, further condemning the police for disrupting NASA meetings. This followed after police barred the Opposition from holding a memorial service for those killed in protests over the disputed October 26 presidential election. "During the electioneering period, police killed people in Nyanza and Nairobi yet nothing has been done. The Constitution allows any political party to hold rallies or demonstrations provided police are notified," he said. Auma cited the example where police in Kwale used excessive force against citizens during a search for stolen firearms. He noted that police should cooperate with locals adding that it is through such a strategy that they will get as many information on culprits as they may want. "Actually police think that when they beat up people they will get stolen guns. This doesn't work. If they have whereabouts of criminals in possession of firearms, why don't they go directly to their places and arrest them?" "Beating up everyone won't return back a stolen gun," the lobbyist said adding that Haki Africa is losing hope on the National police force due to their brutality on innocent citizens. Also read: Police brutality a case of training challenges and wrong attitude "We want the government to take action on the police officers who brutalise women and children," he said. When he was hosted for an interview at NTV, IG Joseph Boinnet said the police will review cases of officers implicated in actions that are deemed to be in excess of their policing role. He said the probe normally targets the individual officers and their unit commanders. However, critics have complained of the long period that the said investigations take and the near prediction that they will not be prosecuted. Related: Justice at last as court awards Sh25 million to five victims of police brutality Click here for the latest political stories    