The
supremacy battle between Jubilee and NASA to control Kenya’s capital city that
generates over 60 per cent of the country’s revenue took centre-stage in 2017. The
coveted Nairobi governor seat attracted seven candidates but the
battle narrowed to ODM’s incumbent Evans Kidero against his arch-rival and
Senator Mike Sonko of Jubilee. Other
candidates were former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Miguna Miguna, Michael Mutinda, Macharia Kamau and Peter Wanyoike. Sonko who was perceived as less educated and unqualified to run the big
city, floored his competitors to become the second governor. Through Sonko Rescue Team, he touched the heart of most poor residents by distributing free water, ferrying the sick to hospitals and dead bodies
upcountry. Kidero
had difficult time convincing residents to re-elect him since his administration was
riddled with claims of mismanagement of funds. The city was filthy, hawkers and
street families took over CBD and most roads were impassable. He promised to address the problems in his second term, claiming he had inherited a city
that lacked plans and was held hostage by cartels. Kidero said the national government owed the county over Sh72 billion, thus making his administration unable to carry out some of its mandate. Unlike
Kidero, Sonko was subjected to tedious and financially draining party primaries. He faced one of the political heavy weights- Kenneth,
in the nominations. Kenneth had been endorsed by the Mt. Kenya power brokers and enjoyed support of State House, with Sonko at some point claiming there was a plot to lock him out of party primaries. On April
28, Sonko won the primaries after garnering 138,185 votes
against Kenneth’s 62,504 votes. Kenneth quit
Jubilee and opted to run as an independent candidate, despite several
calls asking him to shelve his ambition. Kidero,
known for his financial war-chest, ran well-oiled campaigns across the city. NASA principals including party chief Raila Odinga literally camped in the city to drum up support for
him. Sonko, on
the other hand was not much covered in the media, with rumours saying he had ran out of funds. He came out guns blazing in the last three weeks to the August 8
elections and launched his seven-point manifesto touching on health, housing, environment,
transport and infrastructure and job creation. He
promised to reduce parking fee by half, scrap trade licensing fees for small-scale traders and have about three million slum dwellers enrolled in insurance cover
in his first 100 days in office. However,
the governor has not achieved most of his pre-election pledges. Instead,
disorder and anarchy have gained ground in the city centre with hawkers turning
the CBD into an open air market. Garbage collection has become a big challenge
to his administration. 