When we talk of curriculum reform, readiness must
be looked at very broadly. This curriculum is not going to be implemented in a
total vacuum. We are not talking about a completely strange phenomenon. The
schools exist, the broader syllabus exists, and the curriculum implementation
rollout is going to affect only class one, two and three. At these stages,
teaching approaches are not very different. The main difference here, the way I
understand it, is a focus on skills, less than a focus on content. Another way of looking at it is that there is no
time you can say the country is one hundred per cent ready for a new rollout.
As far as I am concerned, there was a needs assessment that was followed by a
piloting, and then teacher training. The teacher training started at the
national level and has been cascaded towards the lower levels. The teachers
already have the broader training on education, anyway. So, we’re saying, let’s
focus more on competency. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? So, in my view as an expert in education, I would
say the government is ready. The curriculum is timely, it’s being rolled out
after sufficient trials and consultations with stakeholders and this country
needs to move on. In fact, even this rollout will be some kind of super pilot
where any challenges that are experienced will be noted for rollouts at
later stages. For the parents who don’t understand what the new
curriculum is all about, the explanation is straightforward. It would focus on
what the learner is able to do. If you go into class to teach, say, English,
you are not telling learners that we have eight different parts of speech; you
are telling the learner that you want to use this language for communication. Two, a big departure in this curriculum is going to
be the involvement of the same parents. One of the pillars of this new
curriculum is something called community service learning. A child will be able
to directly relate what they learn at school with what they experience at home. This curriculum also focuses on a learner’s
interest. After primary, there will be learners who can focus on, say, the arts
–– music, fine arts, theatre and drama. A child will not be told you must all
do Chemistry when you go to secondary school. Education: All that parents need to know ahead of 2018 The
writer is a Moi University don and an expert on curriculum development  Click here for the latest political news   