Technology has significantly and positively changed the conditions of human life since time immemorial. From the Iron Age, which gave man unprecedented advantage over other animals when he invented the forging and use of tools to ease work, to the Industrial Revolution, which led to the abolition of the slave trade, to the Electronic Age, which made intercontinental communications simple, through to ICT and the current Digital Age, which threaten to render journalism irrelevant. It is the use of technology that has pulled China out of the Third World club. The country has always been able to feed its one billion population. Nations have prospered as a result of how innovative they are, how effectively they use technology and how efficiently they deploy their human and natural resources. At Independence in 1963, Kenya and Singapore were at par in terms of GDP and economic status. However, half a century later, Singapore is in the First World ranks, while Kenya is still pushing Vision 2030. Where did the rain start beating us? Or better yet, when did the drought catch up with us? The answer lies in technology; how we relate with it in terms of production and application. Last week, the Technical University of Kenya released some 3,000 graduates into the labour market. The last quarter of the year is normally the season of university graduation ceremonies in Kenya. The TU-K numbers appear meagre compared to the tens of thousands leaving other universities during similar graduation ceremonies. However, having been established specifically to offer unique technical training, the TU-K seems to have chosen the path of quality delivery through deliberate control of numbers. Technical courses are highly demanding in terms of costs and period of delivery. The teaching is largely practical and, therefore, huge investments in equipment, space, technology, high calibre staff and industry collaboration are necessary considerations. Kenya chose this path of educational development when it launched Vision 2030 and the Sessional Paper No 1 of 2005. However, with 13 years to 2030, no commensurate deployment of resources has been made in the technical education sector to spur the take-off to a middle-income industrialising economy. There has been massive investment in infrastructure, which has translated into impressive projects that have made us the envy of our neighbours. But these risk underutilisation for lack of adequate human resource to manage them. The next decade thus calls for a review of national investment strategies to align higher education and training to the needs of economic development. Otherwise our mega infrastructural investments will collapse once the contracts with the external funders are discharged and they depart to their countries. Technical education and training will impart valuable skills and knowledge that would be absolutely necessary in the national journey towards industrialisation and prosperity. It is only industrialisation and equity that will adequately address the curse of poverty that has been the burden of independent Kenya for ages. Industrialisation is heavily dependent on human resource that is sufficiently equipped with technical knowledge and skills to undertake the twin issues of design and production. Kenya can only compete effectively in the global economy if it produces goods and services with standardisation for mass production and re-production. Currently our production is largely jua kali and continually faces the challenges of poor quality workmanship, lack of standardisation for mass production to assure us of spare parts, and unpredictability in the production cycle. This explains why, while the majority of Kenyans rely on jua kali for their household and enterprise needs, we are always on edge and worried if the axle on the wheelbarrow should break, whether one can walk to a dealer and get a replacement instantly. Alternatively, if your neighbour should admire your wheelbarrow, would you gladly take him back to the same dealer and get a wheelbarrow fabricated exactly in similar fashion and standard as yours? The answer is no. No two wheelbarrows fabricated by one jua kali artisan would be the same in terms of quality, design and parts. This is because we have not thought about the dynamics of industrial production, whether at factory level or cottage level. Kenya’s leadership determined that the solutions to the twin challenges of poverty and unity were education and training, wealth creation and equitable distribution of resorces. However, finding the best mode of achieving these has been a dilemma. The missing link has been the role of technology and how to harness it for development. Attempts have been made at integrating technology in our national economic endeavours without much success. At Independence, and with the collaboration of multinational corporations, a programme of technology transfer was implemented through direct foreign investments. European and American companies would set up production plants in African countries, Kenya included, and hopefully employ and train the local workforce to operate the machines. It was expected that this would impart the necessary technical culture to the emerging African industrial labour through apprenticeship. However, it was soon discovered that the furthest this could go was to train machinists and at best a routine maintenance cadre for the factories. The technical knowledge was still in Europe, from where the engineer would be flown in at exorbitant facilitation fees whenever the machines broke down. The local staff would provide support service to the engineer-technologist and mostly carry around the toolbox as the white man replaced the broken parts and carried out general service of the factory. The programme deepened dependency and was largely blamed for neocolonialism.   Adjustment programmes The government then decided to build a local knowledge base through education and training at higher levels in the mid-1970s and early 1980s. This led to the establishment of Kenya and Mombasa polytechnics and later Moi University as the pioneer higher education institution of technology. A decade later Egerton and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology would join the club. These institutions were created to bridge the gap identified in engineering training at the University of Nairobi. While UoN continued to be the best in the region in engineering training, employers in the industrial sector complained that they found the technician from the polytechnics more readily fit for the job. But what observers had lost sight of was the purpose of training at the premier university, which produced engineers who designed systems and products but not technologists. The industry therefore spent inordinate amounts of time tweaking the engineer to become the technologist that the factory required. Unfortunately, because of environmental factors beyond their control, Moi University and JKUAT soon found themselves veering towards the traditional UoN engineering training models as well as offering more social science courses. The 1990s saw the deep implementation of the World Bank and IMF Structural Adjustment Programmes, causing a cash crunch for universities. To survive, the universities ventured into commercial activities, mostly in self-sponsored programmes, to internally generate income to supplement dwindling government funding through capitation. The market dictated that the institutions mount “soft”, short and mass-appeal courses instead of the intensive, long-period and elitist technical courses. Over time the universities of technology soon found themselves competing favourably in the social science fraternity. It is with this realisation that we missed, once again, the boat of technological education and training and the government decided to elevate the celebrated Kenya and Mombasa polytechnics to degree-awarding institutions by upgrading them to technical universities. This was done through a carefully thought-out process and embedded in our legal framework through the Universities Act 2012. They are anchored as the cornerstones of Vision 2030 in the provision of the necessary human resource for the manufacturing and digital service industries.   1:3:6 ratio Kenya must produce adequate numbers of technicians and technologists, even as the nation continues to train professional engineers for our national vision to take off and be sustained. In an industrial economy, we need the right numbers of engineers supported by the right mix of technologists and technicians. The engineers will thus revert to their proper role of designing systems and products, while the technologists will take up their currently missing role of industrial fabrication of products and digital system solutions. Prof Francis Aduol, the vice chancellor of TU-K, avers that the right mix of engineers, technologists and technicians is in the ratio of 1:3:6. The government, therefore, should make appropriate investments in technical education and training, which are grossly under-financed. The gains in proper investment in this venture far outweigh the initial burden of public tax.  If Kenyans make the necessary and appropriate investments in training a critical mass of technical cadres, the country would easily solve the twin challenges of poverty and tribalism. Citizens would be engaged in commercially viable productive enterprises with sufficient profit margins to spur savings and eventual local investments. The culture of handouts and patron-clientele politics would soon be wiped out and people would be self-reliant and sufficiently able to meet their daily requirements of quality shelter, healthcare and education. There would be no need for bursaries as every citizen would access quality social services in every part of the country. The national debt would drastically decline and the government would borrow sparingly and only when absolutely necessary because the tax base would widen to incorporate the expanded income group. Tribalism will be dealt a deathblow since every citizen would have boundless opportunities for economic enterprise either through innovation or commerce. The tribal patrons would soon be reduced to sage philosophers and political competition would be citizen-based as opposed to tribe-oriented. Our faith in Kenya as a nation would grow positively and citizens would not require leaders to extol the virtues of patriotism during national occasions and public rallies; patriotism would be intuitive and self-serving. Every year, Kenyans face starvation and famine in a cyclic manner that is inimical and inconsistent with Vision 2030. As indicated above, China, which currently ranks as our top development partner, first filled and secured its food silos to ensure none of its citizens ever went without a meal before becoming a technology giant.   Kanyadudi is a Public Policy Analyst  