Suiyan Ranch director Girfled Powys was yesterday trampled to death by an elephant in his farm in Laikipia North. Senior Kenya Wildlife Service warden in charge of Laikipia Richard Chepkwony and county police commander Simon Kipkeu said the tragedy occurred near a watering point at around 1.30pm. “I communicated to Josh Perrett, the manager of the neighbouring Mugie Ranch and he confirmed the death. The area has poor mobile phone network coverage and I am yet to get more details about the incident,” Chepkwony told the Star on phone. Read:Suyian ranch boss Girfled Powys tramped to death by elephant Kipkeu said the rancher had alighted from his car and was walking towards the dam when one of the jumbos charged towards him. Laikipia Farmers Association chairperson Martin Evans said the killing of the rancher was unfortunate. Speaking during Jamhuri Day celebrations in Nanyuki Stadium last year, Powys told politicians off, saying they were inciting herders to invade their ranches. Powys, who spoke on behalf of ranchers, said they were not leaving Kenya becuase it is the place they called home. He condemned politicians who had promised to subdivide the ranches to squatters in Laikipia. Politicians had also promised to convert the ranches to large-scale farms. "We have lived in those ranches for more than 102 years, yet somebody wants to come and evict us. Where do we go? The ranches are our homes. Laikipia is our home," Powys said. Read:Invaders burn down remaining buildings at Suyian lodge in Laikipia Also Read:MP Lempurkel denies involvement in Suyian ranch invasion County commissioner Onesmus Musyoki warned leaders against inciting violence under the guise of helping their communities. Musyoki and then Governor Joshua Irungu warned that stern action would be taken against leaders who incited residents. Security has sine stabilised following clashes that pitied local communities against migrant herders from neighbouring counties. Musyoki said an operation was already in place and the government would deal firmly with anybody who tries to cause divisions among Laikipia communities. He warned herders invading private farms, saying they would be evicted with necessary force. Click here for latest political news      