More than Sh1 billion will be spent to acquire the Integrity Centre, which houses the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. This comes after the National Land Commission, through a December 15 gazette notice, put out an intention to acquire the building. ownership mystery The acquisition will put to rest the long and protracted mystery and controversy that has surrounded the ownership of the building and its tenancy. “The NLC on behalf of the EACC gives notice that the government intends to acquire the following parcel of land for use of office space in Nairobi county. LR No 209/1069,” NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri said in the gazette notice. Read:Integrity Centre belongs to EACC - investigator plans can be inspected “Plans of the affected land may be inspected during office hours at the office of the NLC, Ardhi House, 3rd Floor Room No 305, 1st Ngong Road, Nairobi. Notice of Inquiries will be published in the Kenya Gazette as per section 112 ( 1 ) of the Land Act (No 6 of 2012 ),” he added. The property on 0.4867 ha ( 1.2 acres) is registered to Tegus Limited. The EACC has been paying an estimated Sh1.5 million as monthly rent for occupancy of the three-storey building that was recently gazetted as a police station. When reached for comment on Friday, Swazuri explained the EACC, through its parent ministry, had approached the NLC for acquisition of a permanent headquarters for its office. five proposed choices “There were five proposed choices by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission which we looked at and opted for Integrity House because it has the best offer,” he said. Swazuri said what follows will be to ascertain the real ownership of the building, followed by site inspection and valuation. “We cannot at this moment put any value or worth of that building until all those processes are followed,” he said. The Star cross-checked the land index and property value around Valley Road puts the cost of the building at about Sh1 billion. average cost of land Sh450m The 0.4867 hectares ( 1.2 acres) that the building sits on has average market price of Sh450 million. The developments on the land could be about Sh600 million. Click here for latest political news      