DID ODM brass reprimand its senior staff who greeted the postponement of Raila Odinga’s swearing-in with messages of disappointment on social media? Immediately NASA announced that it has postponed the much-hyped and awaited swearing-in, most loyal supporters and staff at Orange House took to social media to express their raw rage, with some calling the move “betrayal in the city” and one shouting how he was “disappointed to the core”. Corridors yesterday noticed the damning messages were all pulled down and more positive ones posted to give supporters hope. ******** AN official of a top government-owned bank is a worried man. Word has it that the official fears for his life, following a failed attempt by his wife to have him murdered at their Kiambu residence entrance. Our mole tells Corridors the man arrived at the gate only to find it locked and the wife would not pick his calls. It is said she had hired a gang to ambush him while stranded at the gate so as to inherit all his property, particularly after finishing the construction of their palatial home. The mole says the mission failed after the gang, armed with rungus and pangas, realized that they have known their target since childhood. They narrated his wife's ploy and he sent the men away with Sh50,000. He has told of his ordeal to both families and no longer eats at home or shares a bedroom with the wife. It is said he plans to relocate to his other new house at an undisclosed location early next year and dispose of everything to leave the wife empty-handed after divorce.  ****** A senior NASA top adviser yesterday fumed as news of opposition leader Raila Odinga’s botched swearing-in sunk in. The official breathed fire when he bumped into a section of opposition MPs at a Nairobi hotel. He was overheard questioning the rationale of the postponement at a time when NASA supporters carried hugely pregnant expectations of a Canaan yonder. “Bullshit I call it! It is without shame!” he told the group of MPs, who appeared reserved and spoke only in hushed tones following the sudden calling off of the inauguration. By all standards, the adviser’s counsel had been disregarded and the endgame was a product he never imagined. ******** THE husband of a first-term woman representative who doubles as her driver was recently embarrassed after he introduced himself as MP for a constituency in the county in a forum in Nairobi. A few minutes later, the real MP for the constituency he claimed he represents arrived but was blocked by event organizers, who wondered how the area had two MPs. 