Mega projects running into billions of shillings are going to foreign firms as the local ones lack the capacity. Transport CS James Macharia yesterday said his ministry often receives complaints regarding the award of major projects to contractors from outside the country. “For example, you see complaints that we are giving jobs to the Chinese in road constructions. The reason is because we do not have the capacity in this country,” Macharia said. The CS said local companies must acquire skills from their foreign counterparts if they are to secure mega contracts. “We are starting a major express highway from the JKIA to Limuru, the one they call double-decker,” he said. Macharia said there are plans to start working on the third phase of the road starting from Kangemi to Limuru. The project can only be carried out with companies with capacity, which many local firms do not have. The Sh38 billion project has been awarded to China Wu Yi. Chinese companies have undertaken a lot of infrastructure projects in the country. They have built roads, schools, airports and bridges. However, in all those projects, it is in road construction that China has played a major role. The 50.4km eight-lane super-highway was handled by SinoHydro Corporation, China Wu Yi and Sheng Li Engineering Company. Its cost stood at Sh27 billion. In September, the Kenya National Highways Authority awarded contracts worth Sh11.4 billion to two Chinese companies. Some 20km of road between Athi River and the Machakos turn-off is set to be upgraded into a dual carriageway. It will be done by China Railways 21 Bureau Group Co Ltd. Kenha also awarded another contract between Mombasa to Kwa Jomvu to another Chinese firm — Third Engineering Bureau of China City Construction Group Ltd. The 13km section between Mombasa and Mariakani is also set for dual carriage upgrade. The CS said plans to further expand airports as well as the second runway needs capacity as well. “One of my key priorities will be to enhance partnerships between the foreign companies and local companies to transfer the skills to our locals,” he said. This is if he is retained at the helm of the ministry he heads as President Uhuru Kenyatta plans to reshuffle the cabinet.