Stray Lions could be crowned Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Premier League champions with a match and an inning to spare. With two round of matches left to the end of the season, the defending champions need only five points from a possible 40 point to secure the league title for their second time in their history. Playing away to Nairobi Gymkhana, Hiren Varaiya-led side could win the league in the first inning if they happened to bowl first and bowl their opponents out or even bat first and score over 275 runs and things go their way at Eastleigh High School and Nairobi Jafferys. They sit top of the 10-team league with 272 points while Kanbis and Swamibapa are joint second with 236 points. If Kanbis and Swamibapa fail to secure all the maximum 20 points against Sikh Union and Sir Ali respectively, then the Peponi School-based side will be laughing even before the second inning. But in case things don’t work in their favour in the first inning, the Lions could clinch the league with a win against a side that has remained inconsistent this season. Unlike last year, Karan Kaul’s side has failed to make a big impact especially against the likes of Stray Lions, Swamibapa and Kanbis. From the five matches they have played so far against the three sides, they have failed to secure a win, losing all the matches heavily. It will need a special performance from the home team to stop their opponents. Both teams will be without some of their top players who are with the national team in the United Arab Emirates for an ICC World Cricket League Championships against Scotland. Nairobi Gymkhana will be without Rushabh Patel, Peter Koech and Lucas Oluoch while Lions are without Shem Obado, Collins Obuya and Nehemiah Odhiambo. Kaul, who was snubbed by Cricket Kenya selectors for the UAE tour, said he expects a tough match but will be looking for a good performance. “Despite needing only five points to secure the league, Stray Lions will be coming for nothing but a win. I don’t think they will sit back and take it easy. We will need to put on a strong challenge and get closer if not win the match,” said Kaul. In the absence of Obado, SOYA nominee Abishek Chidambaran will partner once again with Varaiya in spin. Despite having Nikhil Date and Odhiambo in their seam bowling radar, it’s the spinners who have gotten Stray Lions to where they are.