NASA leader Raila Odinga was on Sunday cornered by Coast delegates who wanted him to be sworn in as the People's President during a meeting in Kilifi. Raila was meeting the delegates during the first People's Assembly consultative forum in the region. Governors, MPs, Senators and MCAs were invited. Speaker after speaker called on Raila to accept to be sworn in during the meeting at the Sun N Sand Hotel in Kikambala. Raila was forced to twice excuse himself from the meeting as delegates from Mombasa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Kwale and Kisumu counties got charged. At one time, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir handed Raila a Bible as the delegate s cheered. "Postponing the swearing-in does not mean cancelling it," Nassir said as he lifted the Bible in the air. Kilifi Woman Representative Getrude Mbeyu then asked area Senator Steward Madzayo to take charge of the swearing-in. "You are a judge, aren't you? Or retired judges cannot preside over a swearing-in ceremony?" Mbeyu said. A smiling Madzayo said he was ready to swear-in Raila. Delegates cheered. Raila was outside the hall at the time. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa said Raila was the hope for Coast residents. Jumwa told Raila not to let his millions of supporters down. NASA deputy CEO Noah Akala who was the master of ceremony was forced to announce a sudden lunch break as tension grew. It was well past 4pm at the time. People's Assembly Steering Committee member Oduor Ong'wen had earlier said Raila's swearing-in ceremony will be conducted in an open national gathering. “We don’t want to swear him in like a joke I saw in a neighbouring country, where someone was sworn in in a corner,” Ong'wen said. He said elaborate plans including a timetable for the occasion had been made. After the break, Raila spoke for about 12 minutes. “I'm going to carry the Bible. Nobody will stop me from carrying the Bible,” Raila said. Raila said there was need for dialogue, arguing that the country was at a tipping point. Yesterday, Mbeyu told the Star that most of the MPs had not been briefed about the agenda of the meeting. “We only received communication to show up. We were waiting to see what would happen,” Mbeyu told the Star on phone. Nassir said Raila could not be sworn in during the occasion because it was not the plan. “We couldn’t do anything abruptly. There is a plan,” Nassir said.