The government has refuted claims it is planning to bail out struggling Nakumatt Supermarket that is reeling under debt estimated to be close to Sh36 billion. Speaking exclusively to the Star, Cabinet Secretary Industry, Trade and Cooperatives Aden Mohamed dismissed reports appearing in a section of media about the intended bail-out as a mere rumour, saying he was not aware of such plans. "I have not heard about that. You could have gotten it from me,'' said Mohamed whose ministry declined Nakumatt's request for a government bail-out in June this year. Nakumatt took advantage of the government's concern about the closure of some of the retailer’s branches to demand for bail-out, accusing state's past actions and negligence for its financial difficulties. In a letter dated May 9, 2017, Principal Secretary for Industry and Trade Chris Kiptoo feared that Nakumatt's poor performance could trigger panic in the country's retail sector chain and hurt the general economy. In a letter responding to Kiptoo, Nakumatt Holdings managing director Atul Shah recounted various instances where the state had failed the retailer over the years, which he claimed have cost the retailer more than Sh35 billion. Shah flash-backed the 1998 contaminated canned-beef scandal that saw the government close all its stores across the country. The beef, which had originated from the United Kingdom, was contaminated with mad-cow disease. According to Shah, the closure was forced by people who wanted to snatch away the family business and even caused the Kenya Revenue Authority to issue a Sh1 billion tax demand and an agency notice to all banks thus crippling Nakumatt’s operations. The stores were later re-opened when it was established that the meat had also been sold to the Armed Forces Canteen. Shah said the brand suffered huge losses and dented image due to the abrupt closure that lasted up to 14 days. He also blamed the government for demolishing the Nakumatt Thika Road branch in November 2008 to pave way for construction of Thika Highway, which saw the retailer lose over Sh500 million worth of stock. He further accused the state for failing to protect two of its branches from the fire that gutted down Nakumatt Downtown in early 2009 and the Westgate terror attack in 2013. The government angrily reacted to Nakumatt's allegations by ruling out any bail-out, stating that it had no shares in the private business to warrant any state help. The country is however waiting to see if the government will back-track on its bitter stand and rescue the leading retailer, which has had a tough year that saw it close almost 20 stores in East Africa. Hopes of being saved by rival Tuskys Supermarket were crushed by the Competition Authority of Kenya, which said that the merger application submitted by the two retailers for regulatory review was done under the wrong clause of the Anti-trust law. Efforts to reach Shah to explain how he is planning to move the regional retailer out of its current financial quagmire hit a snug as he did not respond to our calls and emails. 