In the highlands of Ethiopia comes the adventure of boy, his father and a long-dead grandfather in the book, Desta and King Solomon’s Coin of Magic and Fortune by Getty Ambau. Seven-year old Desta only dreams of climbing to the top mountains and touch the sky. He has has never met his grandfather but grows up knowing the story of how the family patriarch vanished not long after the disappearance of an heirloom gold coin of great historic value. His father Abraham is a respected leader of the community who never overcame the loss of his beloved father at a young age. He still hopes to resolve the mysterious disappearance forty years later. The family are farmers and they herd their goats on the hillsides where Desta likes to explore with this dog, cavort with wild monkeys and daydream. A clever child who hates herding livestock and asks too many questions, Desta’s idyllic world is drastically altered by the sudden appearance of an old spirit that gives him the answer to his elder sister’s barrenness.  The solution, however, overturns the carefully laid inheritance plans of Abraham for his sons and turns all the family against Desta. His own mother thinks her youngest son has been possessed by evil spirits. Several more prophecies from the ghost sage land Desta into more trouble and violence from his family until only his favourite sister Hibist remains his ally. Ambau lives in the United States but he grew up in the rural Ethiopia. He beautifully weaves in the backdrop of Ethiopia’s ravishing montane countryside and the context of a country coming into the modern era. He presents frankly the practices of female circumcision, arranged marriages and child brides where girls are typically married off 11 years. Enjoyable are the hints of magic and the supernatural that are reminiscent of African folk story traditions.  The people practice both cultural traditions and Ethiopian orthodox Christianity, typical of the multi-faceted belief systems of many African communities even today. Like the convoluted title, at various points the book gets too longwinded with repetitive descriptions of events and the countryside. I found the internal monologues by Desta lengthy and inconsistent with the mind of such a young child. The story is narrated by both Abraham and Desta but the boy is the clear protagonist. This is an emancipation tale of a gifted boy in an antiquated society and of his father who never came to terms with the events his own boyhood.  The family mystery and the story of a gold coin linked to the biblical King Solomon and Queen Sheba keep you riveted to the end. It is refreshing to read a narrative from Ethiopia and to understand the lives of 20th century farming communities from this region. This is the first book by Ambau and is part of a trilogy. It won the Moonbeam’s Young Adult Book award and Independent Publishers Children Book award.   Star Rating: 