Plans by the Nakuru government to acquire new grounds for a cemetery have started, Governor Lee Kinyanjui has said. He said the county is meeting stakeholders to seek land. Experts are warning about a looming crisis as most of the cemeteries in the county have been declared full. Traditional beliefs and taboos among Nakuru residents have been cited as the major block in search of locations for three new cemeteries. “The moment they establish the purposes of acquiring the plots they change their minds,” one official said. County officials said it has been difficult for the administration to secure new locations because of resistance from the residents. They blamed it on beliefs among landowners and residents saying many are unwilling to sell their land. Kinyanjui yesterday said the county is still keen on buying land, despite the problems. “We have been holding several meetings and hoping we will be able to secure the land,” he said. It has been more than five years since the main cemeteries in Nakuru were declared full and getting new space has been a challenge. Read more : 'One grave can take up to three bodies': The other side of Langata Cemetery The main cemeteries, which include Nakuru North, Naivasha and Njoro, cannot accommodate more bodies. There is little space left in Nakuru South and Gilgil cemeteries. Njoro residents are the most affected as the Njoro cemetery was declared full more than seven years ago while still under the management of the now-defunct Nakuru county council. In an earlier interview, the county Public Health officer, Samuel King’ori, said three cemeteries are already filled up, but no land has been found for new ones. “We want to buy plots in Subukia, Naivasha and Nakuru where the cemeteries have already filled up,” he said in Nakuru town. Three years ago, the county proposed and encouraged Nakuru residents to consider other ways of disposing of the dead, including cremation, to address the issue of land shortage. The Public Health department issued a notice in June 2015 that all cemeteries that were filled up be closed. Those that continued using it would pay Sh1,500 for each grave. This has not stopped the residents as there is no alternative land. Read more : Sometimes we go for a month without a burial': Kisumu cemetery idle as village funerals preferred Click here for more political news 