Moses Kuria has accused NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi of hiring the youths who chased minister Eugene Wamalwa from Vihiga on Tuesday. The Maragoli Cultural Festival had seemed peaceful and Mudavadi, a NASA principal, had stood to speak when a sleek Toyota Prado drove past the crowd and parked next to the dais. Wamalwa emerged from the vehicle and waved at Mudavadi, who is Amani National Congress boss, on the way to his seat. A crowd then started shouting "Aende! Aende! (He should leave)", and said they did not want a Jubilee Party leader at the venue, but the Water Cabinet Secretary took his seat while smiling. Mudavadi tried to carry on with his address but the people did not let him. He eventually had to escort Wamalwa from the venue. More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos But Kuria, who is Gatundu South MP, claimed Mudavadi "used the platform to succeed Opposition leader Raila Odinga as the supreme leader". "So you, Mudavadi, organised goons to evict Wamalwa from the Mbale Maragoli cultural event. So other than showing your resist credentials to Raila, as you contend to succeed him, what have you gained?" he wrote on his Facebook page on Tuesday. "What do you have to show to your people despite being appointed a Cabinet Minister at the age of 29? You fall for anything." Raila is leading a national resistance movement for reforms in Kenya's electoral system and other sectors. This followed the presidential re-run on October 26, that he boycotted despite successfully petitioning President Uhuru Kenyatta's August 8 victory at the Supreme Court. More on this: [VIDEO] Raila's resistance movement is 'call for war' - CS Wamalwa Also read: Is the problem law or Raila? Ruto asks on national resistance Kuria claimed Raila will not hand the mantle to Mudavadi come 2022 and referred to the latter's two week interlude as Jubilee presidential candidate in 2012. He said the scuffle that forced police to fire in the are will not deter the government from supporting the people. "Now you think Raila will hand over the Nyanza-Western block to you. You are asleep, my brother," he told Mudavadi. "Same way you believed sheepishly that [former President Mwai] Kibaki would hand over to you. Stop trying to Luonize (Correct Spelling Lionize) Maragolis. They are a peaceful people. Eugene is still a CS. Utado (what will you do?) [sic]?" Click here for the latest political stories