Western Jaguars moved four places up in the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s Premier League yesterday following their 2-0 win over Strathmore University Gladiators at City Park Stadium. Sitting 13th prior to their weekend double, the Western outfit overpowered Nairobi Sikh Union 3-0 in their first game before serving outgoing champions Gladiators 2-0 to move four places high on the log woth a total of 26 points to their name.  The team put behind their financial woes to stun Gladiators, who were heralded as match favourites before kick off. The confidence gained after stopping league toppers Kenya Police a week ago, was felt in their subsequent matches as 2012 champions Sikh Union and deposed champions Strathmore found it tough to break Jaguars defence. Sammy Mushira paraded a youthful side, who terrorized Gladiators with their pace and skill of dribbling. Mushira admitted that most of his boys were drawn from high schools and their pace was vital in their double and most importantly in tackling their Gladiators’ counterparts, who are also employ a fast game. Wayne Kipkorir was on target in the fifth minute when he converted Willis Malesi short corner to hand Jaguars the first goal. The goal saw Gladiators head coach Meshack Senge demand reaction from his side at the touch-line and Kenyan International Festus Onyango almost levelled matters a minute later but his shot was well handled by Jaguars’ custodian Gilbert Okanga. Onyango’s contribution in the midfield was felt at times though Jaguars’ coach realised his threat and diffused the move by deploying two midfielders to mark him. Wayne Kipkorir was on target again for Jaguars in the 22nd minute after a well drafted exchange with Mike Malungu. Efforts by Gladiators to pull one back were futile as Jaguars back line stood firm and handled all attempts directed to their area. Jaguars’ head coach congratulated his boys and vowed to work towards beating the red line.  “The boys did a good job and I commend them for the same. We have collected six points this week and we still have two matches in hand and we hope to win and beat relegation.  “Our squad today comprised the youth who are still in high school and their pace and skill was needs today. We hope they will grow with the same fighting spirit and in future make it to the starting eleven,” said Mushira. 