Eleven people at the Coast have either disappeared or been killed in suspected cases of enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings since September, a human rights group has said. Haki Africa on Sunday said the cases are too many and spell the return of a dark era. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said Kenyans should take photos of incidents. “We have camera phones. Record such incidents so we can easily follow up,” he said. On Sunday, the family of Mohamed Zingizi, a 28-year-old chips and fish vendor in Likoni, said he was taken by unidentified people on Friday evening as he took supper at an eatery in his neighbourhood in Ujamaa, Likoni. Two cars, including a Toyota Probox, pulled up at the eatery, before several men emerged, grabbed Zingizi, bundling him into one of the cars and sped off. He has not been seen or heard from since then. Munira, his sister, said she tried reaching Zingizi on his phone but it was switched on and off sporadically. “When it was on and we called, someone kept on rejecting the calls,” she told the press at the Haki Africa offices in Mombasa. MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) said they will take up the matter in Parliament. “We will summon Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to Parliament to explain these disappearances once the committees are formed,” Nassir said. Coast regional police boss Larry Kieng said police are not involved. But Nassir said the reluctance of the police to follow up on the matter is suspicious. Dori, who is the Coast Parliamentary Group chairman, said most of the cases of enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings involve people from the Coast. “Coast people are also protected by the Constitution. We cannot be making laws while others violate them with impunity,” Dori said. Mboko said the police must explain the 11 reported cases of enforced disappearances. “We are now living in fear of the unknown,” she said. Zingizi’s abduction follows that of Abubakar ‘Shebe’ Abdulkadir. Shebe, who sold nyama choma and mishkaki in Malindi, was abducted as he left the mosque after Magharib prayers on November 17.  