Thika United are set to re-branded and chnage their name to Mt Kenya United should the Kenya Premier League outfit survive the relegation/promotion playoff. In what the champions of the development term as a move to broaden the support base of the club to match that of Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards, the change of name will serve to help realise the much sought support from fans. Speaking after the first leg play-off at Thika Stadium, Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria said he envied the support Gor and Leopards receive from their cradles and wants to realise the same with his club, Thika United. Kuria said he has engaged several leaders seeking to shoulder the financial costs of transforming Thika to a serious title contender should they maintain their place in the top flight. He said plans are underway to convince the registrar of society and Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to change the name of Thika United to Mt. Kenya United as well as rotate home matches to all Mt. Kenya-based counties as a way of attracting more supporters. Kuria, a self declared Gor Mahia and Thika United fan, said consultations between leaders from the region and the county government of Kiambu have started refurbishing Thika Stadium to match the standards of Nyayo National Stadium. He said: “We will be changing Thika United to Mt Kenya United should the boys win this playoff. It’s not a political move but a move aimed at drawing more fans to support the club—just the way Gor and Leopards have some communities supporting their own,” he said, adding: “We have began talks with the county governments and leaders and this stadium will be refurbished to meet the standards of Nyayo. It was sad to see the country lose CHAN hosting rights because of lack of Fifa standard pitches. During the renovation period, we request FKF and KPL to allow us move our home matches to all Mt. Kenya counties so as double our fan base.” Kuria further warned KPL clubs to brave themselves for serious competition from Thika. He said he had engaged leaders and corporates to fund the club in the upcoming season so as to deliver the premiership title. “Gor should be worried of us next season. If we make it in the play-offs, we shall be serious title contenders. We will invest in the club and make sure we win the league,” Thika are set to play Ushuru in the second leg at Narok County Stadium on Sunday.