The holidays are with us again. End of year it is! Full house with the children home from school and aching for some fun?  Here is something you could sample and enjoy while at it. Get your family out on a trip aboard our very own speed train, the Standard Gauge Railway.  I promise that Mombasa is now so much closer for us folks living upcountry. The ride is such that you won’t spend the whole day travelling in a hot bus any more.  Make use of the SGR as you sample the eastern end of the country. The SGR is a great idea for family travel.  The tickets are affordable, while children under the age of five years can travel for free. Always book a week in advance for your travel.  The tickets can be printed at the station. Get to the station early, at least an hour before departure. If you are travelling with children, I would recommend that you pack snacks, and have them eat something before setting out for the train station.  I insist buy your snacks because in the case of group travel, you will not get a fill of those snacks sold on the train. First off, they are pricey, and you will miss the bread you left in your kitchen.  Leave your house early for the Nairobi Railways Terminus if you want to use it. The snail train, as I nickname it, leaves at 1 o’clock from city centre for Syokimau SGR station.  The old train is a better bet than having to brave the traffic on Mombasa Road. Get there, have your baggage sniffed by the dogs early, and then start the checking in process. You will still go through numerous baggage checks, which are important for the safety of all riders.  There are a number of escalators to use too. In the event that you have not been on that moving belt, I will advise you to use the stairs. The elevator is a balancing act, and you need some getting used before you can safely use it.The waiting lounges are generally well lit and clean, and so are the washrooms.  Your check in process will involve having your tickets counterchecked against your national identification, or passport, for foreign travelers. This means you cannot purport to show up at the station with a ticket that belongs to someone else. Middlemen must have ended a long time ago, so buy your ticket using the proper procedures either online or at the station.  Another piece of advice is for you to keep sufficient amounts of cash for hailing a cab from the Miritini Terminus to downtown Mombasa.  The place can be a jungle because there is no linking train, something Kenya Railways needs to think through and act quickly on. I mean, if on a single SGR shift that arrives at Miritini there are nearly 2000 travellers, surely you agree with me that the railways management needs to think of how to disperse such a huge number of travelers with minimal chang-overs or movement in and out. Travellers are left to make their way amid very heavy traffic from Mombasa town centre, to Magongo and Miritini in order to ride the SGR.  It can eat up to an hour of your time. Again, leave your house early! This, I feel, is unfortunate, as it means travelers must arrange for extra transport means to and from Miritini station.  In this case, the efficiency of the train is badly compromised as one must either pay for a motorcycle, cab or matatu buses to get access to or from the station.  This means it gets all the more expensive for travelers who are looking to cut costs, and save on time. I believe making the connection from Miritini to downtown Mombasa should be planned to ease travel hitches, like is the case in other major cities in the world. I had a chat with Sam Ikwaye, chairman of Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers, who told me that Kenya Railways needs to wake up, and provide this crucial link to travelers from Miritini to Mombasa city centre. The Nairobi side of things seems to have been thought out, as the snail train does wait for the night travelers to drop them into CBD at fifty shillings.  It’s about time the Mombasa side of Kenya Railways also grabbed this opportunity. Long and short, experience this tube, and see for yourself.  The train ride is a refreshing one especially for millions of Kenyans who have had nil opportunity to ride a train here at home.  There is loads to sample out on the train, key among them the Tsavo National Park. There are elephants, giraffes and a few other wild animals to see.