The High Court has quashed the Communications Authority of Kenya's demand of Sh2 billion from Airtel Kenya as frequency spectrum fees, throwing a new line of relief for the mobile telecommunication company.  Justice George Odunga gave the orders in a suit where Airtel Kenya was seeking to block the communications sector regulator's fresh demand for the money before the operator's licence can be renewed. Odunga also gave an order to prohibit the CA by itself, agents, employees or whosoever from taking any steps, actions or measures to enforce its decision of demanding the money from Airtel. "It is therefore my view that the respondent's decision to demand the applicant pays Sh2billion within 14 days from the date of demand for the zeal of meeting annual tax targets, is not such an overriding interest from the reasons set out in the judgement to justify its failure," Odunga ruled. He also gave orders compelling the authority to give Airtel company a license without any further delay. The judge agreed with Airtel that once the payment in the sum of $6.975 million was made by it to CA is so far as the renewal of the applicants licence was concerned, then the only outstanding item was the finalisation of the actual terms and conditions of the main operating license. "If discussions said by Airtel were concluded, then the respondent was bound to issue the applicant with a licence incorporating the new terms and conditions and bearing the applicant's name", the Judge said. Last month, Airtel Kenya had taken its renewal of operating permit fight with the Communications Authority of Kenya to the High Court, laying bare details of the vicious three-year battle whose secrets have remained closely guarded. The CA’s demands were contained in letters sent to Airtel on June 23 and July 25 this year as a condition for the renewal of the telco’s network facility provider licence. Airtel insisted that the CA had promised to merge its operating licences with the ones it purchased from Yu Mobile in 2014 for the $6.976 million (Sh718 million) it paid to acquire the Yu Mobile licences. Airtel claimed that its newly-acquired licences are due to expire on January 27, 2025 but shortly after it paid the Sh718 million in December 2014, the CA shifted goal-posts and demanded an additional Sh2.062 billion as a condition for renewing Airtel’s licences.