Kajiado governor Joseph Lenku has asked traditional circumcisers to stop the illegal practice and direct their energy to other income-generating activities. On Friday Lenku, in a meeting with some of the circumcisors appealed to them to engage in agriculture, livestock farming or education. The Female genital mutilators are usually paid by the girl's parents before they carry out the cut. Read: Anti-FGM drive begins in Marakwet ahead of circumcision season A former FGM practitioner, Esther Shapashina said during such ceremonies she would be paid Sh3, 000 per one cut plus a goat. "As the Maasai, we have said no to FGM as we need to put our focus on Agriculture, livestock keeping amongst others development-oriented projects," Lenku said. Governor Lenku spoke in Lenkisim area of Kajiado South constituency where he led an anti-FGM campaign. The practice is common in Kajiado, Marakwet, Samburu and Laikipia. African Medical and Research Foundation (Kenya) organised the event where young girls were offered an alternative rite of passage in Lenkisim Ward. Amref (K) and other stakeholders operating in all the sub-counties of the county have been in the forefront in campaigning against FGM. “My government is encouraging the community to abandon the practice because it’s both retrogressive and harmful to our children,” Lenku said. “More Campaigns will be rolled in different parts of our county as we educate our people to detach FGM from our culture,” he said. Over 40,000 girls have so far undergone through the alternative rite of passage in Kajiado in the last three years according to Amref (K) director Peter Ofware, who also attended the event in Lenkisim. Ofware said they want to fight FGM and ensure no girl goes through the cut because it’s demeaning, harmful, unhealthy and against the law. “Girls must be encouraged to go to school and overcome such harmful process that may lead to death due to over bleeding”, Ofware said. Also read: Alarm after sloppy FGM backers cut over 2,000 Marakwet girls