There is no bad blood between the Luhya sub tribes of Maragol and Bukusu, despite the heckling of Water CS Eugene Wamalwa at a Maragoli cultural event in Mbale on Tuesday, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi has said. Rowdy youths heckled and forced Wamalwa to flee the event in the presence of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The CS was also heckled and chased away from another event in Bumula on the same day. Speaking in Bungoma town on Thursday, Wamunyinyi said the incidents were isolated and should not be used to cause division between the Maragolis and Bukusus. "We all know that the Bukusus and Maragolis and all
the other Luhya sub tribes are working together as one united Mulembe
nation," Wamunyinyi said. He had attended the Wings to Fly bursary allocation by Equity Bank. The Ford Kenya chairman said the coming together of NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula ended any speculation of disunity between the two sub tribes. He said the chasing away of Wamalwa cannot be blamed on Maragolis alone because the CS also suffered the same fate from his own Bukusu people in Bumula. ‘He [Wamalwa] ought to have done proper intelligence
on the ground instead of just walking into a gathering where NASA supporters are," Wamunyinyi said. On Wednesday, MPs John Waluke (Sirisia) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) told Mudavadi to apologise to Wamalwa, failing which they would mobilise youths to heckle the ANC leader if he sets foot in Bungoma.       Kanduyi Member of parliament Wafula Wamunyinyi has
denied that there is a looming bad blood between Bukusus and Maragolis. Wamunyinyi was speaking in reference to the Tuesday
incident in which Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa was heckled by rowdy
youths at the annual Maragoli fete in Mbale town Vihiga County. The CS was forced to live the event after rowdy
youths chased him and MP Sudi away in the presence of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi
and other western leaders. Wamalwa was again on the same day chased and heckled
at Bumula constituency in Bungoma county by rowdy youths again. The irate NASA youths said that they did not want
Jubilee leaders to talk and lie to them as they had robbed from them their presidential
victory. The CS had gone to attend an event hosted by Bumula professionals
that was attended by Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati and other county
leaders before he was forced to flee again. Wamalwa had tried to explain to the professionals on
how he had been chased away from the Maragoli fete before he was told to stop
his Jubilee preaching’s in a nasa zone. Speaking on Thursday in Bungoma town at Equity bank
during the Wings to fly bursary allocation Wamunyinyi said that the CS is trying
to mix the Luhya nation by portraying that the nation is divided which is not
the case.. ‘We all know that the Bukusus and Maragoili’s and all
the other Luhya sub tribes are working together and this has made the Mulembe
nation to unite as one,’ he said.  The Ford Kenya party chairman said that when Bungoma
senator Moses Wetangula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi came together and
decided to work together it wiped away all the disunity that used to be there between
Maragolis and Bukusus. ‘There is no war among Luhyas because Wamalwa was
chased by his fellow Bukusus at Bumula on the same day he was chased in Vihiga were
they Maragolis,’ he asked. ‘He just had ignorance and stupidity by not doing intelligence
on the ground and just walking inside the NASA people who are disgruntled by
the Jubilee leaders and its government,’ he said. He asked Wamalwa not to blame leaders on his misfortunes
that are caused by him being on the wrong side of politics that Luhya people
are not part of. This comes even as two Bungoma Jubilee MPs and a
section of MCAs have blamed Mudavdi for the ugly incident on the CS. John Waluke of Sirisia and Mwambu Mabonga of Bumula
have given Mudavadi twenty four hours to apologize to Bukusu fraternity or
revenge should he set foot in Bungoma or Transzoia counties. The Mp also vowed to mobilize residents not to allow
the new principal of Kibabi to set foot in Kibabi high school.