MPs have succeeded in restoring princely pay packages that were slashed in a SRC review in July. A court order on Thursday suspended a gazette notice revising the package downward. This has allowed MPs to pay themselves hefty allowances from this month. And retroactive perks. A hearing on revising the pay package upward will start on January 29 next year. Until it is determined, Kenya’s 416 MPs and Senators get more money. The term of the Sarah Serem-led SRC that lowered the package expired on Tuesday last week. This windfall for MPs comes as the state prepares to retrench 40,000 public service employees starting in February to reduce the bloated public wage bill. MPs now earn a basic salary of Sh7.45 million per year. In July, the public sector wage bill stood at Sh627 billion per year. Read:Wage bill to hit Sh650 billion in 2018, Sarah Serem says as term ends MPs — who are among the world’s best paid — have been complaining loudly they have been virtually reduced to begging by the pay cuts. Lawmakers’ basic pay today, which excludes allowances, is 65 times Kenya’s GDP per capita of Sh114,310. The reductions were described by President Uhuru Kenyatta in March as essential for the nation’s well-being by cutting the unsustainable wage bill. Members of the 12th Parliament will also smile all the way to the bank as they receive ‘arrears’ from the four months when they earned the lower salaries and allowances set by the SRC. Read: SRC slashes President and Governor salaries, abolishes MPs sitting, mileage allowance On Thursday, High Court judge George Odunga suspended implementation of the SRC notice significantly reducing pay packages of MPs and MCAs. He stayed “implementation of the decision by the respondent in Gazette notice N. 6517 published on July 7, 2017, pending hearing and determination of the substantive motion for Judicial Review”. The Parliamentary Service Commission,employer of MPs and Parliamentary staff, had challenged the reduction by the SRC immediately MPs were sworn in. The commission accused the SRC of failing to carry out job evaluation before setting new structures on lower salaries, remuneration and benefits. Suspending the gazette notice means MPs are entitled to huge perks enjoyed by their predecessors. MPs earned a basic salary of Sh710,000 but took home as much as Sh1.1 million monthly, including allowances. They were entitled to Sh5,000 sitting allowance every time they clocked in for the plenary session, Sh5,000 for each committee sitting, Sh5 million car grant and weekly mileage reimbursement. The SRC scrapped the sitting allowance in the new structure that set MPs’ salaries at Sh621,250. The grant for luxury cars was scrapped and a Sh7 million car loan introduced. This infuriated lawmakers. Transport allowances now are paid once monthly based on rates fixed for the distances covered, classified in groups. They range from Sh266,663 for a return journey of 750km to Sh738,833 for more than 1,500km to their constituencies. The PSC decision fight for high pay appears to be MPs’ effort to arm-twist the SRC. With orders suspending implementation of SRC’s reduced perks, MPs have found a way to earn more, legally. Many MPs contacted on Friday by the Star declined to comment. However, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, said in July after the cuts were announced,  “There is a mission to demean MPs and reduce them to beggars, as was the case in the 1990s, when elected leaders would go begging in Government offices on Fridays. We will not sit down and watch as this plan is systematically executed.” President Uhuru had vigourously backed the radical pay cuts and there was no immediate word on his reaction to MPs’ scheming. On March 15, he told Parliament, “I appreciate the silent fear of every politician is ending their career in politics broke and destitute. However, we must always remember the call of leadership is to serve, not to become rich through serving.” Yesterday the Parliamentary leadership was dodgy about the ruling, for fear of a backlash from a public deeply resentful of MPs’ benefits and spending. Previous pay hikes have been met by furious backlashes. Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, secretary to the PSC, refused to comment, referring the Star to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, who is chairman and spokesman of the PSC. Muturi sent a text to the Star advising us to get comment from the clerk. The Star established that Muturi on Friday had requested Parliament’s legal officers brief him on the impact of Thursday’s ruling. The PSC says reduced remuneration is unreasonable as it has failed to take into account the rising living costs. “The unprocedural decision will hamper and curtail MPs in discharging their constitutional mandate,” PSC lawyer George Miyare said. The PSC also faulted the SRC for purporting to set the daily subsistence allowance, which it insists is its mandate. MPs accuse the commission of overstepping its mandate. Before the pay cut, Kenyan legislators’ pay was abnormally high. Also Read:MPs reject Sh11 million gratuity, team formed to negotiate more cash A study by the UK-based Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and the International Monetary Fund in 2013 ranked Kenyan MPs as as the world’s second -highest paid. The report said four out of five of the world’s highest paid MPs are African, with the top five from Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Indonesia and South Africa. However, the 416 legislators — 349 members of the National Assembly and 67 Senators — earn 54 per cent less than their Nigerian counterparts, the global leaders with an annual basic pay of Sh16.5 million. The minimum wage for unskilled Kenyan labourers is pegged at Sh12,192 per month British MPs earn Sh9.1 million, while their American colleagues receive Sh15.1 million annually.This is 2.7 and 3.7 times of GDP per person, respectively. Click here for the latest political news