North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood has urged the High Court in Meru to dismiss an election petition challenging his August 8 victory. He wants the petition dismissed, saying it lacks merit. Former MP Silas Muriuki filed a petition challenging the incumbent's win. Muriuki wants the court to order a recount in all of the 177 polling stations in the constituency, claiming there were alterations. But Dawood told the court the allegations by the petitioner, seeking a recount is sideshow and fabrication. "I would like the court to dismiss this petition with costs. Everything was okay and votes counted and announced as relayed from the polling stations. It is the people's will I serve them," he told Justice Ann Ong'injo. "It is not the first time I have won against the petitioner. It is a misconception that he won but his victory denied."  Justice Ongi'njo will deliver her ruling on January 25. Dawood said in Muriuki's petition and affidavits, he has not indicated the figures of votes deducted in his favour or added in favour of his competitor. He said Muriuki announced himself the winner against the rules. "His supporters went round the town in jubilation, celebrating him as the winner before the IEBC returning officer declared the winner," Dawood told the court on Thursday. However, he was put to task during the cross-examination by Muriuki's lawyer, Muia Mwanzia, to explain why Muriuki chief agent Nicholas Mugambi was arrested and his documents taken away at Kaaga MCK tallying centre. But Dawood said the commotion between police and Muriuki's agents started after they asked why the IEBC portal did not reflect the results as announced at the polling stations. Dawood also produced a video clip in court showing police arresting Mugambi at the tallying centre. He alleged Muriuki's supporters became impatient and started throwing stones at the tallying centre. On Monday, Muriuki told the court there were discrepancies from polling stations to the constituency tallying centre and the electoral agency manipulated his votes in favour of Dawood.  He said his chief agent was arrested so the returning officer could manipulate the results. Lawyers Mwangi Kibichu, representing Dawood, and Joseph Mwangi for the IEBC, cross-examined him. He cited Muthankari polling station, where he claimed he got zero votes and several others with variances. “If the votes are recounted, I will emerge the winner. The election was not fair, free and transparent, I was denied my victory in favour of the third respondent [Dawood]," he said. He said the arrest of his chief agent Mugambi, without any reasons meant that they were no one to verify his results.  Dawood downplayed Muriuki’s claims that his chief agent was arrested with his own separate tallying materials as not true. Dawood (a Muslim religious believer) amazed many in court when he said he had studied theology and quoted a bible verse. “I have never lost an election and I beat my opponent fair and square. I believe in Proverbs 19.21 which states that; many are the plans in a man’s heart, but it’s the Lord’s purpose that prevails,’’ he told the court. Mugambi said he was forced to sign forms 35A, which had been altered. North Imenti returning officer Abdi Sheikh Mohamed told the court Mugambi was arrested, because he was interfering with the tallying. He said the results announced at polling stations in forms 35A were only transferred and were reflected to forms 35B, thus he had no responsibility to manipulate the results. Mohamed denied Mugambi was intimidated to sign the forms.