A former Kenya Air Force soldier has been awarded Sh5 million for unlawful detention after he was linked to the August 1, 1982 coup attempt. Francis Munyiri, an ex-serviceman enlisted in the service in 1976, was awarded the amount as compensation for torture, pain and damages. “Detention of Munyiri at the Nanyuki police post, King’ong’o and Kamiti prisons for about 33 days and for a further about 60 days at Naivasha Prison and at Shimo La Tewa prison without trial and or fair trial constitutes a breach of his rights,” Judge Chacha Mwita said. Munyiri said he was detained, mistreated, stripped naked, whipped, locked in waterlogged cells and made to walk on his knees on a concrete floor. “I was later transferred to the Lang’ata Army Barracks, where I was ‘court-martialled’ on false and unfounded allegations of mutiny,” he said, adding he underwent a sham trial and was denied a chance to respond to the charges. After the charges were read to him, he was immediately convicted and sentenced to six months in jail. “My rights were infringed, having been subjected to cruel and inhumane treatment, torture and degrading conditions in violation of sections 70(a) and 74-1 of the retired Constitution,” Munyiri said. He said he was subjected to unlawful detention, deprived of protection of the law and a fair trial — contrary to sections 70(a), 72-3, 74-1 and 77 of the former Constitution.  Munyiri faulted the government for detaining him for 93 days without producing him in court and a further six months at Shimo la Tewa Prison. In response, Lt Col Kosen denied Munyiri was tortured or treated inhumaley. He said that on August 1, 1982, a coup attempt was staged and Munyiri did not carry out his lawful duties on that day at the Nanyuki Air Force Barracks. He also denied that Munyiri was held without access to the outside world, or without being told why he was being held.  “If there was such arrest, it was due to commission of actual crimes,” he said. But Mwita ruled in Munyiri’s favour and said the violation was real and no amount of money can bring back the joy the ex-soldier lost.