The Education ministry has released a list of approved English Literature and Fasihi ya Kiswahili set books. These books will be used to examine students in secondary schools in the next five years. The new set books have all been approved by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. They will replace the books that have been in use since 2013. Set books for secondary schools are changed after every five years in line with ministry guidelines. “The books for the period 2018-2022 have a running footnote on every page stating, ‘Approved by KICD 2017 Edition’ and ‘Kimeidhinishwa na KICD Toleo la 2017’ for English and Kiswahili, respectively,” reads a circular dispatched to school heads and subcounty and county directors of education. The circular, dated December 8 and signed by Director of Quality Assurance and Standards Pius Mutisya, says that English Literature has two compulsory set books and three optional set books. Read: Schools will get books directly from government in 2018 - Matiang’i Fasihi ya Kiswahili has three set books, which are all compulsory. The compulsory English texts are 'Blossoms of the Savannah' by Henry Ole Kulet and 'A Doll’s House' by Henrik Ibsen. 'Blossoms of Savannah' (Longhorn publishers) replaces 'The River and the Source' by the late Margaret Ogola. 'A Doll’s House' (East African Educational Publishers) replaces ‘The Caucasian Chalk Circle’ by German modernist playwright Bertolt Brecht. The optional English Literature set books are ‘The Pearl’ by John Steinbeck (Bookmark Africa) which replaces 'The Whale Rider'. The others are 'Memories we Lost' (Moran Publishers) by Chris Wanjala, which replaces 'When the Sun Goes Down' and Other Stories ', and 'Inheritance' (Longhorn) by David Mulwa which replaces 'Betrayal in the City' by Francis Imbuga.  Students are required to choose only one set book from the three optional English ones. Fasihi ya Kiswahili has 'Chozi la Heri' (One Planet and Media Services) by Assumpta K Matei, which replaces 'Kidagaa Kimemwozea' by Ken Walibora. The other is 'Kigogo' (Storymoja), a play by Kea Kyovi and 'Tumbo Lisiloshiba na Hadithi Nyingine' (Longhorn) by Alifa Chokocho and Dumu Kayanda. All the books come equipped with a security feature aimed at keeping fraudsters and pirates at bay.  The security feature is a tag printed on the front cover of the books, which when scratched, reveals a 16-digit pin number. “When the pin number is sent by mobile SMS to 22776, you will receive a message confirming whether the copy (of the book) is genuine or pirated. This is an important security measure aimed at ensuring that schools, parents and students have genuine copies with correct content,” Mutisya said. The new set books will start being used at the onset of a new textbook distribution policy by the ministry that also coincides with the launch of free day secondary education. Education CS Fred Matiang’i on November 25 said students will receive textbooks directly from the ministry when schools reopen.  Previously, schools were given capitation by the government, which they used to buy books on behalf of students. Matiang’i said this will be done away with, because some school heads and cartels have been colluding to defraud the government of billions of shillings. “I don’t think my conscience will allow me to live a lie and to see the kind of theft that has gone on in the textbook racketeering in public schools system. We will fight it with everything we have,” Matiang’i said. In the new ministerial guidelines, form one students will be issued with six textbooks for core subjects of English, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Biology and Kiswahili. The government has spent up to Sh300 billion on capitation since the inception of Free Primary Education in 2003 and the actualisation of subsidised secondary education programme in 2008. Read: Education: All that parents need to know ahead of 2018 Click here for the latest political news        