Protracted leadership wrangles among Kiru Tea Factory directors appear set to derail its board’s activities. The factory’s board split into two earlier in the year after Stephen Githaiga was suspended in January, following his appointment as the Sasini Company CEO. The factions have taken the unprecedented step of holding two AGMs in a span of one month. The first AGM was held on November 18 and was chaired by chairman Chege Kirundi, who leads one faction. The meeting took place despite a court order against it. Kirundi said he was not served with the order. The second meeting was held on Thursday and was led by Githaiga — who leads the other faction. Later on Thursday, High Court judge Msagha Mbogholi affirmed Githaiga’s suspension as a director, but urged the board to follow the laid-down disciplinary measures. The judge said Githiga’s application for an injunction against the tea factory and its directors was premature and that he should have exhausted internal dispute resolution mechanisms in law. Kirundi suspended Githaiga, saying his continued service as a board director while at the helm of a rival firm amounted to a conflict of interest. The board also sacked the company’s KTDA secretary John Kennedy Omanga and replaced him with Bernard Kiragu. This came after Omanga wrote a letter saying the board had not followed the right procedure in suspending Githaiga. The board said Omanga failed to offer proper guidance to the factory on behalf of the KTDA. Kirundi wants the KTDA to review its terms before the factory renews its 10-year contract that will end in two years. On Thursday, the rival faction endorsed Githaiga as the new chairman. His bid to remain at the factory was boosted after he also got the support of the KTDA. Githaiga said he did no wrong by serving as the CEO of the rival Sasini because it does not engage in any direct business with the Kiru Factory. “So many directors of tea factories countrywide also serve in other companies in the sector and there are no issues in their factories,” he said. Githaiga said if his suspension is to be upheld, it would undermine structures of the entire KTDA as the directorship of many others would be questioned. He said he is sacrificing himself to serve as the chairman and that his joy is to see the factory run in the best way possible.