It
is time to reflect on whose shoulders the work of building a country lies. The
political class since Independence appears to behave as if they, too, do not
have an answer. Nation building, as a concept, appears to carry varied meanings,
depending with the interpreter. Essentially, it is a continuous process that
goes eternally even in the most developed of nations. However, in the Kenyan
story, the dysfunctional systems require critical thought on how to come
together, own the state and forge forward for assured development. At this
point, it is logical to say the common man has to assert his role in directing
affairs that can guarantee quality life for all. It is clear that absolute
reliance on the current governance structures cannot award Kenyans the
opportunity to visualise, leave alone dream of, a modern state. There
are very many reasons why Kenyans should firmly play their part in directing
national affairs. First, the political class is not in a hurry to change tact
and work towards a prosperous nation. As at now every National Constituency Development
Fund is, single-handedly, controlled by the area MP. Therefore, any issue surrounding
it, including its use, remains the sole prerogative of the MP.  Expecting tangible development through that
trajectory amounts to wishful thinking. The county governments are no better.
The governors have executive authority and all that is needed to loot is an
abrasive attitude, playing around with governance policies and political witch-hunt.
Even rather clean ‘governors’ are learning fast from their ‘experienced’
colleagues. At the national level, the less said the better. State actors
believe that a nation can be changed through PR, image management and tokenism.
Inconsistency to positive national values is alien. We have the desire to walk
(or run) the Malaysian way. What we fail to note is that those countries implemented
strategies devoid of corruption, archaic populist tactics and a collective focus
that brought on board everyone.   Wanjiku
has the option of critically petitioning the authorities to deliver on what
they are supposed to. We need a thousand Okiya Omtatah and Boniface Mwangis to
stir the snoring leaders into action. If you cannot make to the courts or the
streets, question your area leaders and put them into task over their
seriousness to public courses. Those leaders could be the Nyumba Kumi chairman,
ward administrator, MCA, resident association chairman, chief et cetera. The
big obligation is not questioning them on issues that do not benefit the wider
society. If you go to your area MP lobbying to have a personal matter sorted,
you immediately become one of the problems that must be viciously fought in
this country. We need to shun rallies more and use the time to attend town hall
meetings. Above all, a clear comprehension of leadership duties can guide us in
asking hard questions that will have the leaders thinking critically on what
they are doing to shape a prosperous nation. We need a country and no one will
bring it us.  Let us rise up and play our roles.
    