A clerk has taken NASA top lawyer James Orengo to court over nonpayment of salaries and seeks to be compensated Sh950,000. Gilbert Jedidah Ogango has accusing the Siaya senator of frustrating him and blatantly refusing to pay him for 17 months he worked at his law firm. In an urgent case filed before the Employment and Labour Relations Court yesterday, Ogango said he had to persevere for nearly two years working at the JAB Orengo Advocates as senior counsel kept promising him he would be paid once the harsh economic times were over. “But by looking at the change in the law firm, the harsh economic times have since passed and changed for the better, but he still refuses to pay me,” he said in an affidavit. “I’m now led to believe they had been misleading me and as such my hopes and patience have been dashed — some to naught.” According to the suit papers, Ogango was employed as a clerk at the law firm through an oral contract in 2008. They agreed he would earn a Sh20,000 monthly salary. Trouble began in September 2014, when the firm failed to pay him, he said. Ogango says he did not take it seriously because sometimes his salary would be delayed for various reasons. It was later that he got worried as the payment took a while to resume, despite his dedication to service. Meantime, Ogango proceeded to work for 17 months without pay in the belief that fortune would smile on the law firm and payments would resume. But when things did not change, Ogango, in February 2016, opted to end his contract and sought his terminal dues — he got none, he said. He says he formally wrote a demand letter through the law firm of Okoth Okwemba SM & Associate and he was told his salary was withheld not for lack of money, but because he quit the job without decency. Ogango wants the judge to compel Orengo to pay him Sh340,000 as salary arrears for the period that he worked without pay. He also wants a one month’s salary of Sh20,000 and house allowances — 15 per cent of basic pay — amounting to Sh267,000. He further seeks compensation for unfair loss of employment at Sh240,000, severance pay of 15 days each year completed for seven years he worked — this comes to Sh 80,500. Ogango says lack of pay compelled him to quit. He said failure by the firm to pay him his dues was a crime under the Employment Act. Ogango says the law firm acted unprocedurally by failing to keep records of his employment. Ogango will continue to suffer irreparable loss and damage, if Orengo is not compelled to pay him, he said. Click here for the latest political news 