 Uasin Gishu county has scaled down its revenue collection target by Sh300 million this year. Finance Chief Officer Peter Chesos says they are targeting to collect about Sh1 billion this year after it failed to meet its target of Sh1.3 billion last year. This indicates that the county missed it revenue target by about Sh600 million in the 2016/2017 financial year. "We have scaled down our targets because we have to be realistic and ensure we have targets we can achieve", Chesos said. He said the county missed it's target for last year by collecting about sh 680 million. The county is now sealing loopholes through which it has been losing revenue. "That is why we are now very tough on graft and any malpractices that may cause loss of revenue", he said. He said the county also lost a lot of revenue because of effects of the lengthy elections period this year. Governor Jackson Mandago has announced a crackdown on those involved in graft and laziness among staff. He has threatened to instantly sack his new executives who will be involved in graft cases. Mandago said his top officers in the county will undergo assessment every three month to ensure they comply with the law serve the public effectively. The county two days ago suspended 42 revenue officers over loss of money during the election period. Chesos confirmed that the officers have been sent home to facilitate investigations into the theft of money mostly from the parking department. Chesos said the workers had been given letters to show cause why they should not be disciplined over the financial malpractices", said Chesos. He said the revenue officers are suspected to have given fake banking slips indicating they had deposited money collected but the cash was actually never taken to the banks. The theft is suspected to have taken place between the month of July, August, September and October. "We suspect they took advantage of the elections period to engage in diversion of revenue", said Chesos He said so far they had established that more than sh 4 million was missing but investigations were going on to establish the full extend of the loss.      