  Farmers are targetting
to earn at least Sh100 million from short season crops in
Kapkamak/Kabanon Irrigation Scheme in the Kerio Valley in 2018. The projection
has been based on enhanced research by a state agency and Egerton University. The Kerio Valley
is a drought-prone area, which is also known for frequent bandit attacks. Elgeyo
Marakwet Agriculture executive Shadrack Yatich said farmers received
Sh60 million at the irrigation scheme this year. Yatich said
the entry of the Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation and Egerton University
has boosted growth of black sorghum, which is suitable for production of beer. He on
Wednesday said that local farmers have signed contracts with an agricultural
marketing agency – Agrisoko – that sells the produce to beer producer - the East
African Breweries Limited. Yatich said the farmers are set to harvest 400 acres of sorghum in the next two weeks,
while Egerton University will harvest 60 acres of sorghum seeds at the
irrigation scheme. “The
irrigation scheme has a capacity of 1,500 acres and if fully utilised, our
farmers can earn Sh100 million annually,” Yatich said.  “Research by the KALRO and Egerton University has shown that sorghum
– suitable for brewing Senator Lager – can do very well in the area.” This happens
as KALRO begins research to establish suitable crops to be grown under
irrigation in five other counties. They are West Pokot, Turkana, Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia counties.
 KALRO
director Joyce Malinga said the state agency has embarked on growing grain
legumes and sorghum to fight malnutrition, which she said is as high 48
per cent. She said
on Thursday last week during a tour of Kapkamak/Kabanon Irrigation Scheme in
Elgeyo Marakwet that the region is favourable for bean-growing. “We have
determined food crops such as sweet potatoes that can be eaten naturally by
such populations to end malnutrition and increase income,” Malinga said. She said the
organisation will train farmers in collaboration with Egerton University’s Department of Agriculture to boost production. KALRO North
Rift centre manager Charles Kariuki said sorghum growing has started in West
Pokot and farmers are expected to export the produce next year. “I have no
doubt that West Pokot will be a major exporter of sorghum and beans through
irrigation schemes,” Kariuki said. He
challenged county governments to support the maintenance of irrigation water
tunnels to sustain the schemes. Kariuki
further urged counties to adopt new technologies to manage pests and diseases.  