The Kenya National Union of Teachers delegates yesterday resolved that Wilson Sossion will remain their secretary general. Plans by Central region delegates to eject Sossion by disrupting the 60th annual ADC flopped after they were met with brute force. They were overpowered. The officials left the conference hall and said they will “use the government” to remove the ODM-nominated MP from the helm of the union. All the unions that attended the ADC said Labour CS Phyllis Kandie’s Gazette notice that sought to oust Sossion had emboldened them. Kuppet, TUC-K, Kusu, Cotu and Knut said they are more than united and will fight to quash the notice. Read:Sossion, 10 others to lose union jobs in new directive Read:[VIDEO] Chaos at KNUT meeting as officials demand Sossion exit They said the government has panicked because of the strength teachers have displayed with regard to their parliamentary representation. “For the avoidance of doubt, I’m remaining as the SG of Knut,” Sossion said. On Wednesday, Kandie listed Sossion among others in a notice to vacate union positions immediately. Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba was also told to quit. He won the Emuhaya MP seat in the August 8 election. “This notification to vacate office applies to all trade union officials holding either nominated or elective positions in any county assembly or Parliament,” Kandie said. Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga said the Jubilee administration has failed to infiltrate the union. This is why they are using such theatrics, she said. The Kuppet gender secretary is among those asked to vacate union posts. “Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui has served as Kuppet executive secretary, Bomet branch, for five years and at the same time he was a legislator. What informed the government’s decision this time?” she asked. “It is scared of this union.” Wambilianga said teachers, irrespective of the unions, will next year hold a national summit to resist the government’s policies. Also read:I will not resign from KNUT, Sossion says in response to vacate notice Click here for the latest political news  