We believe the petition that we filed following the October 26 poll rerun is much stronger than the one filed by NASA against the August 8 Presidential election. The judges ruled otherwise. They know the reason, whether intimidation, or coercion, or whatever it is. We respect their judgment but disagree with the ruling. Because on October 26 we know we had a stronger case than NASA’s on August 8. To give a comprehensive review of the judgment, we will release a comprehensive statement at the right time as Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu. It is premature to give the detailed report at this particular moment. First, they said that the issues raised in court were merely allegations. But what we filed in court was not allegations but facts. Second, they were talking about violence. It is not us who committed the violence. And we also noted with a lot of concern that they did not mention the IEBC statement without the former IEBC Commissioner Roselyn Akombe’s statement. Everything comes from the IEBC because if the IEBC fails to open up how do we get the evidence to support our petition? We knew from the very beginning that it was almost impossible for the Supreme Court to annul two presidential elections in two months. Our case was multiple and stronger. The issue of the KIEMS kits and the register of voters: We wanted to go through the register and make them understand that these figures were inflated. When they reverted to the register on Election Day the number of voters skyrocketed at an alarming rate within a short time.  First, the IEBC said, “it’s okay, if you want to photocopy, give us KSh18 million. Second, the number of voters who were not identified by the KIEMS kits is alarming. There was a fraud. We asked for inspection of forms 34A, 34B and 34C. We waited and after a long hustle, pulling us in different directions, they gave us. We scrutinized and analyzed everything. But going back to court the judges misused it. They said it's going to open a can of worms. It will be another case after the other. It's at this point we knew something was wrong. We lost the case unfairly. It's not us who lost, but the public. There were issues the court failed to take into consideration. The writer is the chairman of Muslims For Human Rights