The Political Parties Dispute Tribunal has temporarily barred Parliament from conducting elections of EALA MPs until a case challenging the NASA nominees is determined.  Jimmy Lukka, Narok West MP loser in the August 8 election, filed a petition challenging the NASA nominees list saying it does not meet the criteria set out in the Constitution. PPDT chairman Kyalo Mbobu on Wednesday directed Lukka to file the orders and serve them by way of advertisement in a leading local daily newspaper.  The tribunal further directed that all parties appear for an inter-parties hearing on Monday, December 18 at 2pm. Read: Top ten favourites in race for EALA nomination Also read: MPs 'should not' travel until EALA MPs picked  The case may hurt initial plans by the legislators who were to pick Kenya's nine representatives to the Arusha-based regional Parliament on Thursday. The lawmakers adopted a report tabled on the floor of the National Assembly by the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee on the EALA. The report contained the names of 25 nominees from NASA and Jubilee.  The committee called for the speedy finalisation of the election to enable the Arusha-based House to resume its sittings from January.  The MPs will by secret ballot decide who among the 25 nominees submitted by NASA and Jubilee will make it to EALA.  Supporting the motion, Westlands MP Timothy Wanyonyi urged his colleagues to be thorough and ensure they elect individuals who have integrity and experience.  "We should be careful while voting to ensure we have members who are up to the task. EALA is not a dumpsite for people who are seeking jobs. They should be persons who do not represent political parties or regions, but the entire country," Wanyonyi said. The nominees from Jubilee and NASA have been busy campaigning for the nine available slots.  It was a hive of activities at Parliament Buildings as candidates tried to persuade the lawmakers to consider their candidature in the secret ballot. EALA's third assembly concluded its sittings on June 4. The fourth is expected to start early next year. Click here for the latest political news