Maize traders must now meet new standards that will be enforced across East Africa. The government said the new standards - which apply to grain moisture levels and discolouration - come into force within six months and will apply to anyone trading in nine grains, including maize across the East African borders. Betty Maina, the East African Affairs PS, said the new regulations will improve trade. The standards tackle obstacles traders face because of inconsistencies in standards in different countries. In the past, Kenyan exporters particularly to Tanzania and Uganda would be chased away on grounds that their products were unfit because of moisture levels. “The gazetted revised standards will become legally binding in all partner states six months after publication in the gazette. This will be a great effort to facilitate intra-regional grain trade by reducing standards-related technical barriers to grain trade that had previously hampered such trade,” she said. Read:Comesa launches guide for regional maize trade Kenya is a major exporter of wheat products to Tanzania, but also imports huge quantities of maize from the neighbouring country. The nine priority products whose standards reviewed are maize, wheat, milled rice, dry beans, dry soybeans, maize flour, wheat flour, sorghum flour and millet flour. Some of the parameters addressed were moisture content levels, discolouration of grains and aflatoxin. Also Read:Mexican maize was sent to South Africa, we got surplus they didn’t need, says CS Head of East African Grain Council, a Nairobi-based lobby, Gerald Masila, said farmers will access better and larger markets, while consumers will be provided with safe and high quality food grain. “The EAGC plans to undertake capacity building and awareness forums in each country and to work with the EAC and National Bureaus of Standards to develop national standards implementation roadmaps as we call upon the EAC partner states to move with speed to ensure effective implementation” Masila said. The gazetted standards were launched and handed over for implementation during the EAGC end of year members’ forum. Click here for latest political news      