Nondies utility back Dennis Ombachi has been ruled out for four months after suffering an ankle injury during the World Sevens Series opening leg in Dubai earlier this month. Ombachi fractured his ankle en-route to scoring Kenya’s first try against Uganda and underwent surgery where his ankle ended in a cast. Ombachi, who missed the Cape Town leg will miss the tournaments in Sydney (Australia), Hamilton (New Zealand) in January and February respectively. He will also sit out of the Las Vegas and Vancouver legs in March, the Hong Kong and Singapore editions as well as the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia in April However, Ombachi, who scored Kenya’s winning try against Zimbabwe in the Africa Sevens qualifiers two years ago in Johannesburg, may play in the final two legs of the World Sevens Series in Paris and London in June and the Rugby World Cup Sevens in San Fransisco USA a month later. Ombachi’s loss is a big blow to the side for whom he has been a mainstay for the last five years ago. Team manager Eric Ogweno revealed that talisman Collins Injera suffered a mild hamstring but should be fit for the next two tournaments in Sydney and Hamilton.  “Injera should be fine for our upcoming two tournaments. Nothing to worry about. Just a couple of days’ rest and he will be good to go,” said Ogweno. However, there is good news to the side after it was revealed that skipper Andrew Amonde will be back for the next two tournaments after missing the opener due to a hernia injury. Ogweno said they will monitor Sammy Oliech’s shoulder after the Impala Saracens’ playmaker injured it in the match against Scotland on Sunday. “We are talking to the medical team to see the best way forward so by next week we will b e in a position to know if he will be available,” added Ogweno. On the pool in Sydney where Shujaa face Argentina, France and Wales. Ogweno was bullish about Kenya’s chances. “I am confident that we will bounce back from Cape Town. We can top the pool on day one and be very competitive,” he added. Ogweno lauded the efforts of Oilers’ Samuel Muregi, Arthur Owira of KCB in Cape Town. “They played very well being their first tournaments. They came through very well and have shown their qualities,” said Ogweno. The team will resume training next week.