South Africa's democracy will be reinvigorated under new ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa, Raila Odinga has said. Raila yesterday congratulated Ramaphosa for his election as the African National Congress President. He said the victory by Ramaphosa,
whom he fondly referred to as a comrade, signals a new era of
democracy in Africa. “The news of our comrade Cyril Ramaphosa’s election as the leader of the African National Congress will thrill democrats in South Africa, across Africa and indeed throughout the world,” Raila said yesterday in a statement to newsrooms. “From this pivotal ANC position, and drawing on South Africa’s recently diminished but still vibrant global standing, he will restore the high respect that his nation, as well as the continent, enjoyed under the fabled leadership of Nelson Mandela.” Read : Cyril Ramaphosa to lead South Africa's ruling ANC party This is the second candidate in the
continent from a ruling party Raila will be backing against in a presidential race. The first was Tanzanian President Pombe
Magufuli, who was nominated by his CCM party. Raila's close association with Ramaphosa emerged after the 2007-08 post election violence. Ramaphosa, a veteran negotiator, had been called in to mediate the Kenyan crisis, but President Mwai Kibaki’s PNU party rejected his offer citing his links with Raila. It's believed Ramaphosa is among African tycoons that have previously funded Raila's campaigns. The an anti-apartheid hero was declared winner in a hotly contested race against former chairperson of the Africa Union Commission Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The victory now puts Ramaphosa in a pole
position to succeed President Jacob Zuma in the 2019 presidential vote. Raila described Ramaphosa as a democratic
liberationist, trade union leader and high-level business executive. The accolades were the clearest indication of their close
relationship. Raila said ANC remains Africa’s best-known and oldest liberation
party and movement. He said
they have previously discussed with Ramaphosa the need to reinvigorate African democracy. “In a discussion a year ago about
running for the leadership of our respective political parties in
Kenya and South Africa, we both emphasised the imperative of a
renewed African democratisation that can build the continent
economically, engender equitable growth and contribute to the global
movement for moral and ethical leadership,” Raila said. Ramaphosa was a protégé of the late Mandela, who had pushed unsuccessfully to name him as his
successor in the late 1990s, before Thambo Mbeki took over. Click here for the latest political news   