Kenya’s overzealous plan to beat pollution is on course, Environment CS Judi Wakhungu has said. Wakhungu yesterday told a fully packed third UN Environment Assembly in Gigiri, Nairobi, that “everyone appreciates a pollution-free planet”. “It’s time the world addressed this challenge without delay and agree on a common goal,” she said during the official opening of the Third United Nations Environment Assembly. Read: No retreat, no surrender, plastic ban is on, Environment CS says   “You all appreciate that as we strive to develop and provide better services to our citizens, pollution has equally increased. We all appreciate that a pollution free planet cannot be achieved in isolation, a strong reason for us to work together on the matter.” The theme of this year’s session is Towards a Pollution-Free Planet. The CS said Kenya has made some strides in fixing pollution. “In June, the country made a bold step and banned manufacture, sale or use of plastic bags, which are major contributors to pollution on our planet,” she said.  The assembly runs from December 4-6 at UN Environment headquarters. As the world’s highest-level decision-making body on environment, it brings together governments, entrepreneurs, activists and other players to share ideas and commit to action. Wakhungu said the ban, though a small step, will significantly reduce plastics-related pollution. Costa Rica Environment and Energy minister Edgar Gutiérrez, also the president of the 2017 assembly, said the collective goal must involve adopting ways to lower pollution drastically. Read: Invest in waste recycling plants, CS Wakhungu tells companies   “Only through stronger collective action, beginning in Nairobi this week, can we start cleaning up the planet globally and save countless lives,” he warned. A UN report — The Executive Director’s Report: Towards a Pollution-Free Planet — is used as the basis for defining the problems and laying out new action areas. It says everyone is hurt by pollution. The report recommends political leadership and partnerships at all levels, action on the worst pollutions, lifestyle changes, low-carbon tech investments, and advocacy. It covers pollution in all its forms — air, land, fresh water, marine, chemical and waste pollution. Environmental degradation causes nearly one in four deaths worldwide, or 12.6 million people a year. It also leads to widespread destruction of key ecosystems. The assembly focusses on key resolutions, including new approaches to tackle air pollution — the single biggest environmental killer, claiming 6.5 million lives each year. More than 80 per cent of cities don’t meet UN health standards on air quality.   Click here for the latest political storie