Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, who
drew his last breath yesterday, was Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s ‘Mr
Fix It.” He was 60. Love him or loathe him, Nyenze never
shied away from speaking his mind. This earned him the nickname ‘Shabiki’
[fan]. The former cabinet minister used the term 'Shabiki' as his signature rallying call to
mobilise supporters in his constituency during political campaigns. However, cutting a gentlemanly and amiable
demenour, only a few of Nyenze’s friends and colleagues knew he had been ailing. He lost the battle after eight years. Read: Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze is dead Fears of ill-health were sparked on August 13, when Nyenze frailly walked into the chambers to take his
oath as MP for Kitui West constituency with an oxygen tank. Looking weak and limping,
Nyenze had tubes snaking up his back, as parliamentary orderlies helped pull the
tank as he moved around hugging colleagues jovially. Born
on June 2, 1957 at Kabati in Kitui county, Nyenze was one of Wiper leader Kalonzo
Musyoka’s most trusted allies and equally
his hatchet man in times of political storms. He first got into parliament in 1997 when he was elected Kitui West MP on a KANU ticket. He became a close ally of former President Daniel Moi. He was appointed Minister for Environment, then transferred the
Heritage and Sports docket during a Cabinet reshuffle in 2001. Read: UhuRuto mourn Nyenze as patriot who spoke his mind Nyenze was trounced by Nyiva Mwendwa in the 2002
election. He, however, made a
comeback in 2013. He defended his seat in the 2017 election. However, since the election Nyenze maintained a low profile - perhaps an indication of his worsening health. Kalonzo's close ally was rewarded with the Minority leader's position in the last Parliament. Nyenze rarely courted controversy. However, in the lead up to the August poll, Nyenze kicked up a fierce storm. He came out guns blazing, saying NASA would break if Kalonzo was not named the opposition presidential flagbearer.
 The audacious move touched off friction. He maintained the community would walk out of the alliance if Wiper was shortchanged. “This
is no longer a request. We are not begging, it is a demand we are making. It is
either Kalonzo or there will be no NASA, at least not including the Wiper
party,” Nyenze said in March. He also got in trouble when he again declared he would back President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection in the August poll. Read: Wiper disowns Nyenze over Uhuru re-election remarks, says Kitui votes locked for NASA Click here for latest political news