Deputy President William Ruto has demanded that all public servants keep a copy of the Jubilee Party manifesto.  Ruto yesterday said public servants must always align to the government of the day and help it fulfill its plans. “The Jubilee manifesto is the textbook on which [President] Uhuru and I will carry out continuous assessment tests on you and you risk failing if you don’t have the right textbook,” he said. Ruto was speaking at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre during the third public servants’ awards.  “You must find a copy of the Jubilee manifesto because that is the platform on which the President and I were elected,” he told senior ministry officials. Read: Uhuru puts jobs, industrialisation top of Jubilee agenda during Manifesto launch   The awards were organised by the Public Service Commission, the agency that recruits public servants. The three awards were service delivery, ethics and integrity, and innovation.  Notably, no one was found suitable for the ethics and integrity award. This would have gone to anyone who adheres to Chapter Six of the Constitution, which deals with the integrity of public servants.  The chapter spells out how a public officer must carry themselves and not engage in corruption. PSC commissioner Veronica Birgen said no officer was found suitable for this award. PSC vice chairman Peter Nkuraiya said the nominees were vetted thoroughly and no one was found suitable.  “We put a watertight system and invited nominees from all entities in the public service. We interviewed the selected nominees. Recipients have gone through a thorough vetting,” he said. Nkuraiya said the awards were meant to encourage a positive performance culture and transform public service that is ethical and principled. He said many times public servants’ work goes unnoticed and no one awards them for their work. “We wanted to recognise public servants who have excelled in the disciplines and gone beyond the call of duty,” Nkuraiya said. The Service Delivery Award was won by Wakhungu Juma, an official of the Ministry of Labour and Cooperation. Juma initiated programmes that improved the relations between Kenya and other East African Community countries. Innovation for Efficiency and Productivity was won by John Kanyiri, a senior assistant director of renewable energy in the ministry of Energy. Kanyiri was awarded for a series of renewable energy innovations.   Click here for latest political news