Kenya has asked China to open up its market for Kenyan commodities in order to mitigate the widening trade imbalance in favor of the second largest economy in the world. Speaking while opening the three day China-Africa Expo on Wednesday at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre, Industry Trade and Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed welcomed Chinese investors to visit the country and sample Kenyan products needed in their markets. ''China is a leading economic partner to Kenya, financing and overseeing landmark infrastructural transformation in the country. We have created a conducive investment environment for Chinese investors in the country and we hope that China will reciprocate and open its over 1.3 billion people market for Kenyan products,'' said Mohamed. He asked Chinese firms to explore opportunities and invest in President Uhuru Kenyatta's big four economic areas of food security, affordable housing, health and manufacturing. The CS seemed to be echoing President Uhuru Kenyatta's sentiments in May this year when he attended the Belt and Road regional infrastructure programme. The president challenged Beijing to open its door for African businesses if it wants its win-win strategy with the continent to be a success. In a statement read on his behalf by George Kiondo, the Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry chairman Kiprono Kittony said the expo presents a timely opportunity for Kenya to promote trade and investments with China for mutual benefits, adding that a level playing field is key to advancing bilateral trade between the two countries. According to the Kenya National Bureau Statistics, China exported goods worth Sh341.5 billion to Kenya between January to October, and is likely to cross the Sh400 billion mark by the end of this month considering that goods worth Sh34 billion are entering the country from China every month. Last year, Kenya exported goods worth Sh10 billion to China but imported goods worth Sh337.4 billion from the Asian powerhouse, necessitating a trade deficit of a whopping Sh317.4 billion. Speaking at the event, Li Xuhang, minister counsellor of the Chinese Embassy in Kenya, said that unlike other forums where Chinese investors normally come to look for market opportunities in Africa, the China-Africa expo 2017 has brought Chinese investors keen to partner with local businesses to increase production for export markets. He said that during the first half of 2017, China Africa bilateral trade reached $85.3 billion, an increase of 19 per cent compared to the same period last year. Non-financial direct investment by Chinese enterprises in Africa reached $1.6 billion, signalling an year-year increase of 22 per cent. ''China is committed to the 2015 Johannesburg Summit resolution where it signed mutual economic agreement with Africa. It is for this reason that African electromechanical, chemical and agricultural products exported to China increased 22, 3.5 and five per cent respectively in the first half of this year,'' said Xuhang He said that although the trade gap need to be bridged, Africa should score its economic relation with China based on social economic transformations 