Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi has said she refused to allow NASA’s People’s Assembly to be debated because she did not want to be in held contempt of court.  Elachi said a court last month restrained all assemblies from debating the motion until a case is determined.   On November 21 the High Court in Kitui on November 12 restrained all county assemblies from debating or implemting the motion.  But some assemblies, including Mombasa, Kwale and Machakos defied the order and passed the motion. Twelve counties have adopted the motion, which also rejects Uhuru Kenyata as the legitimate President.  “This is a House of rules and procedures. We have to pay fidelity to the law all the time. What if I allow the motion and the following day someone sues us for contempt?” she asked.  NASA MCAs on Thursday evening walked out of the chamber, protesting against the speaker’s refusal to allow them debate the motion.  The motion was not listed in the order paper, but Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok wanted to use a provision in the Standing Orders allowing a member to issue notice and move a motion, even if not in the order paper.  But Elachi said the house had already passe the notice of motion stage in the sequence of the order paper.  Elachi said, “These speakers are violating the law. They took an oath and vowed to protect the Constitution and all other laws.”  Opposition MCAs chanted “Reject, Resist” as they walked out. They accused the speaker of bias.  Majority leader Abdi Guyo said defended the speaker, saying, “We cannot allow the motion to be debated in our Assembly because it is illegal.”  Guyo threatened to write to Controller of Budget not to approve funds for counties whose assemblies have approved the motion.  “If the CoB approves their budgets, we will petition the National Assembly to remove her,” he said.  “I want to plead with NASA leadeRaila Odinga to please follow and defend the Constitution he fought for. President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in as per the law. We don’t want chaos in Nairobi, “ he said.  But minority leader Elias Otieno, whose wing was to present the motion, said the speaker did not follow the order paper and instead went straight to the last item — motion of adjournment — to block the motion from being moved. “The speaker is a dictator. We will bring this motion again in January. The motion must go through,” he said.