Baringo residents have demanded an equal number and weight of livestock stolen by armed Pokot bandits. They made the demand on Tuesday as security chiefs carried on with their recovery operation. Police from Baringo North and Tiaty met Kenya Defense Forces soldiers in Loruk to plan the recovery of the animals. “We will discuss how to execute the operation so all the animals are recovered," one said. The exercise began after Deputy President William Ruto ordered all security officers to find the animals before breaking for the holidays. During the Kimalel goat auction on December 21, the DP ordered warned officers that they would not have their break. He also directed Governors, MPs and Senators from affected areas to find lasting solutions to the menace. “It
is so sad and shameful...I wonder why armed bandits are having a field
day killing and stealing livestock from unarmed locals," he noted and
asked the officers to camp in volatile parts. “We
cannot keep on singing every year of cattle rustling and insecurity...If
cattle theft must continue, leaders must be held accountable." More on this: No Christmas until all stolen cattle are recovered, Ruto tells Baringo security chiefs Related: DP Ruto shocks Baringo farmers after buying 1,000 goats for Sh12 million cash Affected Tugen
residents in Baringo North sub-county also demanded the arrest, disarmament
and prosecution of the bandit, saying they have not known peace this holiday. Last Tuesday, about 20 armed attackers raided Kagir in Baringo North and stole 77 cows from 12 Tugen families. On Monday, a group of 40 bandits attacked Chemoe, surrounded the Anti-Stock Theft Unit camp and stole 541 cows from three families. Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said the bandits later surrendered 15 underweight cattle to security officers. “Our animals were healthy and weighed over 150 kgs yet the rogue Pokots surrendered animals that weighed less than 40 kgs. We cannot accept them. The government should be firm and ensure we get equal value." He said officers' failure to ensure this will mean they have been colluding with the thieves. Click here for the latest political news