Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia believes a partnership between the Ministry of Sports and Sports journalists will be key developing the profiles and communication skills of sportsmen in the country.  Kaberia was speaking during the opening session of the International Sports Press Association (AIPS)—Africa Congress in Nairobi yesterday. Kaberia lauded the existing relationship between the ministry and the media and its role in informing and educating the public and implored the media to maintain the cooperation in the forthcoming local and international championships. He, however, noted that Kenyan sportsmen are sparingly within the jurisdiction of the country’s borders and hence tasked the media in developing their profiles and making them known at home and beyond. He also emphasized the need of the fourth estate in working with different sports federations and enhance their marketing. He said: “We appreciate the role the media plays in informing the public and we are looking forward for the same cooperation in the upcoming local and international championship. I urge the media to develop our sportsmen’s profiles and make them known in and outside the country. You find our stars who win medals in different championships are little known at home. I plead with the media to market them and also enhance their communication skills.” Kaberia said such a partnership will also be crucial in the fight against doping and other unsporting vices. “The ministry is committed to curbing doping through Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK). I again call upon the media to work with us in educating the sportsmen on the dangers of drug cheating. We also urge you to fearlessly expose those found cheating and I can assure you of our support,” said Kaberia. AIPS president, Gianni Merlo called for a corruption-free industry. “There should be no corruption issues in sports. Collaborating with those who are corrupt works against your independence and tarnishes the image of sports. Let’s invest and improve our culture and send a message to the world. The public demands fairness and results. Lack of results will see the public desert sports. Invest in women and the upcoming generation,” said Merlo.