The mice, frustrated by the constant dangers of the cat, met in a council to find a solution. They discussed, and equally rejected plan after plan. Eventually, a very young mouse rose up on his hind legs and proposed that a bell should be hung around the cat’s neck. “What a splendid idea!” they cried. “Excellent suggestion!” “Oh yes, that would very well warn of the cat’s presence in time to escape!” They were all accepting the proposal with great enthusiasm and applause until a quiet old mouse stood up to speak. “This is, indeed, a very good suggestion and would no doubt solve our problems,” he said, “Now, which one of us will put the bell around the cat’s neck?” This fable teaches us that it is one thing to propose something and another to carry it out. Now, one may ask me where I am headed with this short story. Last week, in his Jamhuri Day speech, President Uhuru Kenyatta presented his agenda for the coming four years before he finishes his last term. He said he was focussing on the “big four” — food security, affordable housing, universal healthcare and manufacturing. This is a great proposal that must be embraced by all Kenyans of goodwill who want to see this country prosper. But unlike the mice in the story above, we must be ready to execute this agenda collectively. This will, however, not be possible if we focus on sideshows such as the political dialogue that has been demanded by the opposition. We must not allow ourselves to be drawn into politics just after the lengthy electioneering period, and which nearly destroyed our economy. We must realise that the decision by the IEBC to declare Uhuru President, as well as the Supreme Court decision to uphold that declaration, have eliminated any reason for political dialogue. What we need now is to discuss how to build and develop our country. In other words, we need a dialogue on development and how we can move forward together into prosperity. Like the mice in the story, we must agree that we have a common problem that we must face collectively. As the leader of the nation, the President has already identified food insecurity, poor housing, low manufacturing, hence, joblessness, and inadequate healthcare as the problems Kenya faces. In his speech, the President was clear that he is inviting all of us — including those in the opposition — to work with his government to achieve this agenda. The clear reason for this is that it boils down to ensuring that every Kenyan prospers and gets the best services. Manufacturing is key to creating jobs, which will ensure that more people contribute to the economy. They will also be able to contribute to the National Hospital Insurance Fund and therefore be able to access better healthcare. A growing economy will also help the government put together more decent and affordable housing, which shall directly benefit the common mwananchi. This is all that Kenyans are asking for and we must all work towards its success in our various capacities. In addition, we need to deal with wastage of public resources as well as corruption, once and for all. But for us to propel this agenda, the calls for political dialogue must cease, immediately. We can actually wait for 2022 to think about politics and prepare for the election. As the President said, we will never have a second or third Kenya and as I have written before, this country will outlive all of us and therefore we must all work together to rebuild our economy. The time for politics is done. Now let’s transform our nation and discuss economic liberation, which will benefit each and every Kenyan. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda