The high cost of living and political tension were the biggest challenges Kenyans faced in 2017, a poll has found. In its report on Thursday, TIFA said 64 per cent of the public cited high costs of living, 52 per cent political tension and 25 per cent unemployment. Then came the doctors' strike at 17 per cent - it lasted 100 days and left hospitals paralysed and tens of people dead. "The crisis in Kenya was not only evident in political tension but also in the wallets of many citizens who could not afford to purchase basic food commodities such as maize flour, milk and sugar, whose prices rose sharply and in some instances by over 200 per cent," said TIFA CEO Margaret Ireri. "2017 was the year when food prices became the yard stick for Kenya’s economic performance in the eyes of ordinary mwananchi."  Eighty one per cent Kenyans felt the cost of living rose in 2017. North Eastern, Coast and Nyanza had the highest proportions of respondents who raised this concern while Rift Valley had the lowest (60 per cent). Areas that experienced the worst cases of high cost of living were North Eastern (82 per cent) and Nyanza (72 per cent).
 In the end-year poll, TIFA found 79 per cent Kenyans felt economic conditions worsened more in the year than in 2016. The highest negative perception of worsening economic conditions was recorded in Nyanza and the lowest in Rift Valley. Political tension was most prevalent in North Eastern (71 per cent) and Nyanza and
Coast which both had ratings of 59 per cent. Violent protests rocked Opposition strongholds of Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori after NASA candidate Raila Odinga asked his supporters to boycott the repeat presidential election on October 26. This gave Jubilee Party candidate Uhuru Kenyatta an easy win. Raila wants the government to take responsibility for deaths that he said numbered 215. More on this: Apologise and compensate families of 215 killed by police, Raila tells Uhuru Nyanza recorded the most concerns about unemployment, the doctors’ strike and poverty. Regarding political tension following the two presidential election, 81 per cent Kenyans felt the climate had worsened. Rift Valley was an outlier as only 58 per cent were of the opinion that the political situation deteriorated. "This could be an indicator that they did not feel the brunt of local and national politics in the same magnitude as other regions." The 1,005 respondents living in urban and rural areas noted Kenya lowered its 2017 economic growth forecast from 6.1 to 5.5 per cent due to drought and political uncertainty. On employment, 71 per cent were of the view that prospects worsened in 2017, with Nyanza region having the highest mentions and Rift Valley the lowest. Following the research between December 12 and 16, Trends and Insights for Africa reported that 62 per cent Kenyans felt internal security worsened in 2017 while 24 per cent gave contradicting views. "The worst sentiments pertaining security were from Nyanza (85 per cent) and then came Nairobi at 80 per cent.  "These negative sentiments in Nyanza and Nairobi could be attributed to the fact that these regions were more active in political demonstrations," Ireri said Perennial strikes in several key sectors, unemployment, security, unity and food shortages are the President's key challenges for his final five-year term. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto promised countrywide development in the campaigns so the public will be monitoring. The margin of error for the poll was +/- 3 per cent and the confidence level 95 per cent. Read: Strikes, unemployment and terrorism: Uhuru's final term headaches Click here for the latest political stories