Sacked technical staff of embattled national carrier have sought legal channels to protest unfair dismissal after their employer fired them on Thursday. The engineers, through Anne Babu & Company law firm are demanding the manner their client was treated, and saying the engineers were dismissed without being offered the right to be heard. Speaking to the Star on phone, Anne babu, an advocate of the high court confirmed that the law firm has written to Sebastian Mikosz protesting on the sacking of about 140 engineers and technicians. “When terminating or dismissing employees, a firm ought to give them a notice and an opportunity to be heard. Failure to do this would be deemed as unfair treatment and a breach of the law,” Babu said. If found guilty of not issuing notice and giving the employees an opportunity to be heard, Kenya airways risks paying damages to the employees or reinstate them back as ruled by the court. On Wednesday, one of the affected technicians confirmed to have received a dismissal letter on his email after staging a go-slow since last Tuesday to push for salary increases. Although the technicians confirmed that 140 of them have been sacked, the airline through a statement to the Star said only about 90 of them were fired, representing about 15 per cent of the 600 technicians employed by the national carrier. In a letter to the CEO dated November 16, 2017, the technicians briefed the new CEO about the history of the standoff, and listed other complaints including shortage of maintenance technicians in the country, high cost of training maintenance personnel, and an increasing migration of technicians to the Gulf countries due to poor pay in the country. The technical team said in the letter that the remuneration matter was resolved by the airline board in December 2016, and funds to settle the issue were released. However, the technical director has never released the funds to date. The technicians are demanding a minimum pay of Sh340, 000 for technical assistants and Sh1.2 million for the highest paid engineers. “The technical director, Martin Heinz, was tasked with solving this matter but to our surprise, he has dilly-dallied, giving excuses that have left us feeling unimportant to the company one year since we successfully got the board to set aside money for our reward,” the letter seen by the Star said. Among the proposed basic salaries for different positions are the technicians, who according to the proposal should earn Sh500, 000, senior technicians Sh600, 000 engineers to get Sh720, 000 and the senior engineer to be paid Sh850,000. However, in the recent statement by the chief executive to the Star, the bone of contention, remuneration, was addressed early this year. “Kenya Airways management consistently communicated, in good faith, the progress of addressing issues raised by the technical department. Key was remuneration, and this was addressed earlier in the year,” he said. Whereas this matter has not been solved to the satisfaction of the engineers, Kenya airways has already advertised for vacancies in the position of technicians and engineers. The lawyer could not confirm if the case will be headed to court at this stage, as they will first have to await the CEO's reply to their communication.