Farmers in Zimbabwe are anxiously watching their crops, fearing
the return of a plethora of new pests that recently spread to
the southern African nation and devastated harvests this year. Many cannot afford pesticide - or lack the knowledge - to
control fall armyworm, tomato leafminer, cotton mealybug and
other newcomer pests that arrived as climate change creates
warmer, more conducive conditions. "We don't know what is happening," said Lovemore Muradzikwa,
a small-scale maize farmer in the Mafuke area of eastern
Zimbabwe, who said he has already seen some of the pests return. "There are small worms destroying our crops. They are eating
even wild plants. We don't know what they are," he told the
Thomson Reuters Foundation. Shifting weather patterns linked to climate change -
including longer droughts and more intense rainfall - are making
farming more uncertain across much of southern Africa. And the arrival of new pests - some of them adapted to the
changing conditions - is making life even harder for the
region's embattled farmers. "A few farmers have done research about these pests and many
poor farmers don't know what to do. We don't know why we are now
experiencing these pests which we never experienced before,"
said Muradzikwa. Squashing worms Fall armyworm destroyed 20 per cent of the country's maize
crop last season, according to government figures, at a time
when the country was recovering from devastating drought that
had left more than four million people dependent on food aid. The pest is a native of the Americas and was first spotted
in Africa in 2016. It has since spread across the continent. Zimbabwe's Deputy Agriculture Minister Davis Mharapira said
the country is prepared for a possible outbreak this season. "Our agricultural extension officers are on the ground
teaching farmers across the country about fall armyworm. We are
advising farmers to report any sightings of fall armyworm as
soon as possible," Mharapira said in a telephone interview. Fall armyworm was first seen in Zimbabwe in September 2016,
and became more prevalent in January and February when it was
spotted across the country, according to a joint report by the
government and UN agencies. Some farmers "resorted to handpicking and squashing the
worms in an attempt to control them", or used pesticides. But 60
per cent of farms affected by the pests did not take any measures
to control them, resulting in extensive damage to crops, the
2017 Rural Livelihoods Assessment Report said. Many countries in Africa have reported other new crop pests
and diseases including banana bunchy top virus in Mozambique,
South Africa and Malawi, and maize lethal necrosis in Kenya,
Tanzania and Rwanda, and elsewhere. Globally, the spread of pests and diseases across borders
has increased dramatically in recent years with trade playing a
role as well as climate change, according to the UN Food and
Agriculture Organization. Lawrence Nyagwande, a plant expert and the Manicaland
manager of Environment Africa, a non-governmental organisation,
said climate change in Zimbabwe was creating warmer conditions
conducive for new crop pests and diseases. "Agriculture extension officers must work hard to educate
farmers about these new pests," he said. Blessing Zimunya, a farmer and traditional leader in Chitora
area, south of Mutare in eastern Zimbabwe's Manicaland Province,
said farmers fear the return of fall armyworm this season. "We are not sure yet whether we will face the same armyworm
problem this season. Many farmers were caught unawares ...
Farmers do not have knowledge about these new pests," Zimunya
said. Click here for the latest political news