Title: Pink Lightning Artist: Xavier Omär Genre: R&B/Soul Release: November 17   Xavier Omär is after rapturous, cinematic love, the kind that doesn’t get him to sleep at night because he thinking about his desires — and it just feels right.  He knows what it is like to find the love of his life. He is well familiar with how to protect himself from being hurt.   His latest release, “Pink Lightning”, is a testament to all this and plenty more. His 2015 “Hours Spent Loving You” and 2016 “The Everlasting Wave” EPs introduced us to his soulful melodies. Now, what seems to be an annual thing, Omär has dropped another quick listen probably meant to highlight how he has managed to reinvent himself. In 16 minutes, you are able to venture into Omär’s sensitive-guy vibes combined with fantastic contemporary R&B melodies that offer his fans exactly what they need when it comes to romance and relationships. The EP kicks off with “Runnin’ Round”, a track where he expresses his battle in a relationship that seems deceitful.  “Stuck” and “Change On Me”, which features Leuca, find Omär displaying his shades of affection the best way he knows how to.  On “Title”, the singer  stares down the notion of being in a relationship where a lover cannot be specific about what they really are. The five-track effort closes with “Wild (Remix)”, probably the most essential track.  The tune describes what extent the singer can go to express his love to the one he loves. “Pink Lightning” is a successful attempt, interesting experiment for somebody looking forward to make a significant mark in the mainstream music scene. It is the kind of EP you’d want to listen to on repeat, or add specific tracks to your best playlists.  With this minimalist compilation, we would agree that the R&B crooner is headed for commercial success. When you are done listening to this compilation, you’ll certainly want to see the artist in full action. Probably his next major release should be a full-length LP. However, it is important to acknowledge that he is headed in the right direction.   Star Rating:  3 out of 5