Kenya is on the brink of plummeting into the abyss of political catastrophe. The government and the opposition are locked in an existential contest for leadership. Either the government will galvanise its hold on power by all means possible or the opposition will clinch power, in a way not yet anticipated.  This is what my people would say: “Thuol odonjo e ko (the snake is in the gourd, would we salvage the milk or the gourd?)” Is the country headed for apocalyptic politics? The repeat election exposed what has been a closely kept secret of a government appearing strong from the outside, yet its power remains brittle at the core. It’s apparent that the regime projects a picture of invincibility that masks the shallow roots of its public support.  What else would necessitate the muzzling of civil society, swamping social media with propaganda, pumping up approval ratings and hyping the applause of supporters? The opposition has a large, but increasingly radicalised following, which is distraught and wears an air of being aggrieved, their rights denied and so stuck in-between hope.  They are therefore determined to respond, even when their response would lead to anarchy and deaths. For them it is apocalypse. This is what happens to politics when it loses patience. Rabbi Jonathan Sachs in his book Not in God’s Name, explained that: “Apocalyptic politics is the strange phenomenon of a revolutionary movement whose gaze is firmly fixed on the past. It arises at times of destabilising change and speaks to those who feel unjustly left behind.”  It is like Samson in the temple of the Philistines, bringing down the building on his enemies but destroying himself in the process.  The book of Genesis in the Bible is about the willingness to accord dignity to the other rather than see them as a threat. This is enabled pathological dualism that, according to Sachs, “divides humanity into children of darkness and of light, all good among us but all evil in the others”.  One way out of this is role reversal. Rabbi Sachs suggests: “The way we learn not to commit evil is to experience an event from the perspective of the victim. That is what [the biblical] Joseph is forcing his brothers to do. He educates them in otherness through role reversal.” Joseph forced his brothers to recognise that just as a brother can be a stranger (when kept at a distance), so a stranger can turn out to be a brother. Cain was able to commit murder because he said, “Am I my brother’s keeper?” He refused to feel the pain of Abel, but cared only about his rejected offering.  On the contrary, in showing that he was his brother’s keeper, Judah’s repentance redeemed not only his own earlier sin but also Cain’s. A small wonder then that the nation of Israel begins in Egypt as slaves so that they would know from the inside what it feels like to be on the other side. Going forward, let truth be the foundation upon which Kenya is built. History is replete with evidence that truth can be betrayed and systems manipulated in service of oppression and injustice. This has been the story of Kenya.  The opposition needs to remain committed to good governance and resist half-measure application of democratic principles, individual rights and the rule of law.  The government, which calls on all to respect the Constitution, must also be exemplary in adhering to the tenets of the Constitution. That is dealing with each other truthfully. Now, however, we need to also embrace the truth with all its ramifications. Kenyans have the capacity for doing right and upholding the principles of democracy, as demonstrated in the 2002 election and the referendum that yielded the 2010 Constitution. This will ensure an end to election theft. I doubt there is need for more laws. I also do not imagine that change of people at the helm of failing institutions such as the IEBC, without a shift in attitude, will change the situation. Our priority must be to pursue principle above pragmatism.  To get there, we must admit that while pragmatism determines the greater part of politics, it must never be at the expense of moral principles. This will not be without a cost. In the end, we need to pursue truth to its logical conclusion. Attempts to bridge the divide and solve the present crisis have focused on reconciliation. Needless to say, these have so far been futile, for want of honest mediators. The depth of the crisis transcends a simple reconciliation between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga.  Reconciliation must be grounded in repentance, which means a complete change in attitude, and behaviour. A role reversal would be the best way of entering the world of those with “no stake in the economy” and whose rights have been trampled again and again.  We must urgently move away from the path of apocalyptic politics and affirm through reforms the national institutions to accommodate all. The day these conflicts are transformed into conciliation will be the beginning of our journey to a society as a family.   The
writer is a priest at All Saints Cathedral Diocese, Nairobi. The views
expressed here are his own.     canonomondi08@gmail.com  