NASA yesterday unveiled a seven-member committee to guide the opposition on the implementation of the People’s Assembly. Economist David Ndii will chair the team and will be responsible for coordinating programmes of all county assemblies that have passed the secession motion. Other members are former senator Judith Sijeny, Oduor Ong’wen, Mutakha Kangu, Peter Muthuki, Hamida Kibwana and Koitamet ole Kina. Read : NASA dispatches people's assembly motions, asks for fresh poll in February The team will present its report to the NASA principals before December 12. NASA leader Raila Odinga announced he will be sworn in by the People’s Assembly on December 12. “We have a committee that will deliberate on and produce a roadmap towards the achievement of a just government and restoration of democracy,” former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale said. Khalwale said the recommendations of the team will lead them to a path of self-determination.  “Majority of Kenyans did not participate in the October 26 presidential election. It cannot be said that they individually and collectively delegated their sovereignty to Uhuru Kenyatta,” Khalwale said.  The committee will also set up a national secretariat to provide oversight and become the centre for all the activities of the assemblies. “We wish to make it very clear that Kenyans cannot and shall not accept the blatant usurpation of power by the Jubilee administration and its determined effort to revert this nation to an authoritarian rule through the attendant abuse of human rights,” Khalwale said.  He was speaking during a press conference at the Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi. “Kenyans have a right to choose who leads them,” former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama said. Muthama said court orders banning the People’s Assembly were unconstitutional. He said the opposition will respond to the orders at the right time. Read : 'Liberation struggle on': Raila forms People's Assembly “The right of citizens to exercise their sovereignty at the county level is not subject to supervision or veto by the national government,” Muthama said They accused the state of unleashing terror on supporters during an aborted rally in the Jacaranda Grounds in Nairobi on Tuesday. Khalwale said they had only planned to hold a memorial service for supporters who had been killed by “trigger-happy officers.” “It cost five more lives, including that of seven-year-old Geoffrey Mutinda, who was shot dead as he played on the balcony at their home,” Khalwale said. Click here for the latest political news 