Nominated ANC legislator Godfrey Osotsi might lose his seat if found guilty of plotting to topple the party and mismanaging its funds during campaigns. Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC has indicted Osotsi, the ex-secretary general, for sabotaging the party by using “malicious idlers” who have petitioned the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung’u over a “non-existent dispute”. The party is set to institute disciplinary action against him for an alleged “ominous subversion plot”. Amani National Congress chairman Kelvin Lunani in a statement accuses Osotsi of trying to destabilise the party in sabotaging its planned audit of financial records and probe into the integrity of some officials. “We ask Osotsi to stop hiding behind unsuspecting and innocent idlers, but come out from hiding and face the wrath of members,” he said. Punishing members Lunani warns that the party will not hesitate to punish any member, including officials, engaging in the misconduct or trying to evade accountability. “The party will not hesitate to invoke Article 15 ( 1 ) which states that a member of the party shall cease to be one by a resolution passed by the National Executive Council,” he said. Lunani added,“Our spot checks at the Registrar of Political Parties show the majority of the so-called petitions are filed by relatives, associates and political hangers-on of the former interim official who is enjoying trappings of a nominated MP, courtesy of ANC.” Sinister agenda Lunani cites Ibrahim Memba challenging newly appointed ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka as Osotsi’s maternal relative. He reveals their investigations established the place, time and non-ANC members Osotsi is using held meetings and facilitated them regarding transport, accommodation, and cash to push his “sinister” agenda. Read more : Osotsi nominates as MCAs 2 mothers-in-law, says Savula Lunani claims Osotsi is siding with Jubilee mandarins to destabilise ANC, the way UDF was toppled, to deny Mudavadi a political vehicle for his 2022 presidential bid. “The script has all the hallmarks of how Jubilee caused instability in UDF after the 2013 election because the so-called petitioners unlawfully prefer the Registrar of Political Parties rather than report any grievance to the internal disputes mechanism,” he said. ANC holds that Osotsi resigned as an interim secretary general together with former executive director Petronilla Were to take up the Senate nomination slot. The party wants the former secretary general to hand over its property and surrender all records he handled during his tenure for audit.  The scrutiny is to establish whether all meetings held by the National Executive Council were according to the party’s constitution. It also seeks to keep a proper record of minutes and distribution decisions made by its three leadership organs to relevant persons and branches. “ANC is aware that Osotsi may have been panicked by the decision of the NEC and Parliamentary Group to audit election financial records, claims of financial and integrity impropriety and malpractice by some officials during the election period, to wage war on the party,” Lunani said. He added,“The audit is a normal exercise and is not targeted at individuals but those who feel guilty already should be very afraid indeed.” Parliamentary privileges The chairman has warned Osotsi against abusing parliamentary privileges the party accorded him through the nomination to incapacitate it through attacks using the proxies. The chairman said ANC is a “young party striving for excellence” and that all officials except the party leader serve on an interim basis. He has asked all members to remain patient as the party prepares for grassroots elections once the forensic audit is completed. The elections will allow substantive officials to manage the party. Lunani said Osotsi was using the privileges accorded to him by the party in Parliament to mount a campaign to undermine it using proxies. Destabilise ANC Lunani said in a statement yesterday that the plot to destabilise ANC stems from the desire by Jubilee mandarins to deny Mudavadi a strong party in 2022. He accused Osotsi of subverting the party even before he accounted for reasons why he deprived it of representation when he abandoned and traded in the ANC Nairobi Senatorial nomination ticket in the last election. Lunani said those being used by Osotsi to destabilise the party “through fake petitions” are “busybodies”. Eight party members on Monday filed petitions before Ndung’u to quash the appointment of Muluka as secretary general. They claimed that the appointment by Mudavadi was not procedural. But yesterday, Lunani said the records will ensure that all party meetings took place as provided for in the constitution. Read more : Jubilee gets 16 nominated MPs to boost its majority Click here for more political stories