Lobbyists have called for protection of "deteriorating' civil liberties, warning Kenya will slide into dictatorship. Under 'We the People' - that brings together trade unions, civil society groups, academicians, citizens and the media - they cited the arrest of NASA strategist David Ndii. They said the arrest of the renowned scholar and economist was the latest example of a country headed to authoritarianism. Senior police officers told The Star Ndii had been under 24-hour surveillance for some time. They believed the NASA policy chief had been contacting various people, including MRC members. This turned out to be a crude hoax and embarrassment to the state. Read: David Ndii was to meet Mombasa secessionists - police sources In a statement on Wednesday, the activists described the nature of Ndii's arrest as "another attack by  the Jubilee regime on the basic freedoms that Kenyans have struggled long for". “The last time this kind of sinister impunity, in the use of police to enforce the political agenda of the ruling regime, was evident in this country was in the 1970s during the reign of Jomo Kenyatta,"  said John Githongo who is CEO of Inuka Kenya Trust. "Under the one party dictatorship of Daniel Moi, use of state agents to silence critics, intellectuals, civil society and opposition continues but was curbed through popular dissent. “Under Uhuru Kenyatta, the trend of state intimidation, harassment and murder is creeping back. It is sad for Kenya that this kind of democratic reversal can take place a mere seven years since the promulgation of a new liberal Constitution." The group further said Ndii's arrests was a legal issue that arose from investigations and law but that "pure political harassment applied on dissenting voices". "The arbitrary arrest of Ndii, who was held incommunicado for several hours and driven to Nairobi through Tsavo National Park, epitomises the torturous nature of the current regime and its intolerance of intellectual freedom, free expression, thought, criticism and respect for fundamental human rights,” said lobbyist Regina Opondo. Opondo is executive secretary of the Constitution and Reform Education Consortium. She noted current efforts are aimed at returning a climate of fear into national affairs by making Kenyans shy away from debate. James Gondi, from the International Commission of Jurists, said: “We The People of Kenya are resilient and will not relent in the struggle to sustain our constitutional rights and freedom." Others who have condemned Ndii's arrest are Suba Churchill of National Civil Society Congress, AfriCOG's Gladwell Otieno and ICPC's Ndungu Wainaina. More on this: Kenya sliding into dictatorship, rights groups say after David Ndii arrest Click here for the latest political stories