Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has once again said he will not tolerate corrupt officials in his government. He spoke during the swearing-in of the 10 county executives on Thursday. The names were approved by the assembly on Wednesday. The swearing-in was presided over by county secretary Chiuli Murumba and was attended by MCAs and politicians, including former Ford Kenya nominated MP Patrick Wangamati. Residents were also present. Governor Wangamati said, “To these able CECs, I want you to always reflect on the oath of office that you have taken for the entire term that you are going to be in office for the sake of development.” He said he was keen when selecting the team, adding it has the experience and academic qualifications to get the work done. “We know the people of Bungoma are anxiously waiting for service delivery from you because we have wasted a lot of time - about two months - with sidesshows yet the job should have started,” the governor said. He continued, “I want to humbly appeal to all that let’s not be quick to put stumbling blocks in the way of the formation of the Bungoma government because if you do so, you are not hurting Wycliffe Wanagamati, you are hurting the people of Bungoma, who want progress.” Governor Wangamati said he is in the process of nominating chief officers, adding he will retain some who are doing a good job. “I also understand that someone wanted to go to the courts to stop this swearing-in and that’s why we have done this immediately with no delay after the assembly approved the names yesterday,” he said. The governor accused some county leaders of ‘sponsoring’ people to sue to stop the formation of his government instead of supporting him. He appealed to residents and leaders to work together regardless of their political affiliation and move the county forward. Governor Wangamati said corruption will not be entertained in his government. “When you look at the money we get from the national government, out of Sh100, Sh70 goes to recurrent expenses and only Sh30 goes to development and the area where there is big corruption anywhere in this country is on the development side,” he said. The governor continued, “If we remain with 30 per cent and we eat that again, what development are we going to have?” The governor urged residents from the nine constituents in Bungoma to stand in solidarity to fight graft. He said, “If we fight graft, we will be able to build roads, schools, hospitals in this county and even investors will come if they know we are clear on the war on graft.” Wangamati said he will use county sources efficiently.      