2017 will remain a year that Kenyans were forced to dig deep
into their pockets to put ugali on the table. This was due to the prolonged drought that started in 2016, leaving three million Kenyans in dire need of
food aid.  According to the National Drought Management Authority, the
raging drought also affected neighbouring countries where Kenya
imports maize, leading to a cutoff of grains. This triggered a drastic increase in food prices pushing the
country's overall inflation to 6.99 per cent in January up from 6.35
per cent in December last year.
 The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data indicated that the
cost of selected foods rose to 1.66 per cent in January 2017 from 1.31
per cent in December 2016. By February, prices of essentials commodities including maize,
sugar and milk went up. A two-kilo packet of maize
flour increased from Sh120 to a high of Sh150, milk rose from Sh50 to
between Sh65 and Sh70 while a kilo of sugar was selling at Sh200.
It was a struggle for many Kenyans to afford these basic commodities
and in some areas, this resulted in domestic attacks. This followed a public outcry after a shortage of essential
commodities in the market including maize flour and milk. Local
supermarkets were forced to limit one to two (two-kilo) packets of
maize flour per consumers which was expensive.
 In February, the government declared the drought that has affected
23 arid and semi-arid counties and pockets of other areas, a national
disaster.
 While meeting Cabinet secretaries who were involved in drought
management and food security, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the
government will allow maize importation from Mexico by licensed
millers in order to stabilise the high prices of food.
 In
May, the government
started a Sh6
billion subsidy programme amid
sharp criticism on the legalities of importing maize from Mexico. Kenya has traditionally imported grains from Uganda and Tanzania
to bridge deficit, but by November 2016, Tanzania had restricted
export of maize, while Uganda did not have enough supplies for
exports after a poor harvest and due to the drought.
 Agriculture cabinet secretary Willy Bett, said Kenya which
consumes 29 million bags of maize every six months was forced to
import maize from Mexico to ease the supply shortage. The
government resolved to source and sell maize to millers at an average
cost of Sh2,300 per 90kg bag so that consumers would buy a 2kg
packet of maize flour at
Sh90.
 The
imported maize cost Sh3,600 for a 90kg bag but the government
subsidized
the
price so millers can buy it at Sh2,300 until
end of July.
 The
subsidy was then extended until end of September and later pushed to
December 31. Maize subsidy comes to an end Consumers
may have to dig deeper into their pockets once again from next week
as the prices of maize flour are likely to increase after the end of
the subsidy programme.
 An industry expert, who did not want to be named, said the cost of
a 2kg packet of flour may go up to Sh120 from the government's
subsidised price of Sh90. This is because millers are now buying a
90kg bag of maize from farmers at Sh3,200 from the subsidised price
of Sh2,300.
 Consumers should brace for higher prices as millers have said that
the price of maize may also increase to Sh3,400 per 90kg bag once
they factor in the cost of transport from the farmers to the mills.