National women’s volleyball team setter Jane Wacu believes there is a lot to be done if Malkia Strikers are to leave a mark at the 2018 World Championships in Japan. Wacu observes that each of the team players need to re-evaluate their commitment to the team and work harder since the global showpiece will be a different ball game to what they have been exposed to lately. Wacu was reacting following the draw of lots where Kenya has been placed in tricky Pool ‘D’ alongside Serbia, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Kazakhstan. Kenya booked one of the two African slots during the Cup of Nation championships staged in Cameroon last October. Cameroon are the other African representatives. Wacu, who is currently at Anse Royale(ARSU) in Seychelles noted that early and intense preparationswill be key if the team is to record good performances at the event. “It reaches a point where as a player you have to examine yourself and your performances. This year we were not at our best and I hope we will be back at our best come next year,” said Wacu. “We are going to face the who is who in as far as the sport is concerned and we have to prepare well and re-examine our commitment as players going forward.” She observed that it is not business as usual as other nations are rising fast and the earlier the team make amends the better. “If the performance of Cameroon and Senegal during the Africa Cup of Nation is anything to go by, there is a lot of competitiveness and we can’t just sit pretty. Cameroon beat us in the final and that is a reason enough for us, players and country at large, to wake up and smell the coffee,” said the former Tetu Secondary School player. “In many occasions, we started our matches slow and reacted as the play gathered momentum and that’s something we should change during the forthcoming championship.” Cameroon are in Pool ‘A’ alongside Mexico, Argentina, Germany, Netherlands and hosts Japan. Pool ‘B’ has China, Italy, Turkey, Bulgaria, Canada and Cuba, while champions United States America are in Pool ‘C’ with Russia, Korea, Thailand, Azerbjan, Trididad and Tobago.