Nyamira county returning officer David Towett yesterday admitted there were more votes cast than registered voters. He made this admission when he gave evidence in an election petition challenging the election of Governor  John Nyagarama. Towett shocked the court when he acknowledged there were more votes cast in some polling stations than the total number of registered voters. However, he said the errors did not affect the final outcome. Towett, who was cross-examined by petitioner Walter Nyambati’s lawyer Kennedy Nyaencha on the alleged malpractices in the election, said the process was conducted in a free and fair manner without favouring any candidate. During the cross-examination, Towett told the court one of the requirements for one to become an IEBC official is that one was never to be partisan. He told the court he is not familiar with the county government structure.  This is after he was asked whether the IEBC would allow county top officials such as executives to work as poll officials.  Towett also denied being aware of a presiding officer in one of the polling stations who is a ward administrator. The returning officer also said he had an opportunity to look at Forms 37A and said they had no mistakes. He was also taken to task to explain the whole process of voting as it takes place during the poll day. Towett said he received complaints from Jubilee candidate Nyambati, who wrote a letter to him informing him some of his agents were never allowed to access a polling centre in North Mugirango constituency in Nyamira county. Towett told the court he was concerned and that prompted him to call the returning officer in charge of the station. The officer said the allegations on the denial of access to the polling stations were not true. Nyambati through Nyaencha is urging the court to overturn the election results, claiming they were conducted in favour of Nyagarama.  Nyagarama was declared the winner after he got 63,949 votes, defeating Nyambati who came in second with 58,936.