No member of the National Assembly is allowed to travel out of the country today and tomorrow. Majority leader Aden Duale has requested speaker Justin Muturi not to permit any foreign or local travel until after the House has elected EALA MPs, formed the committees and approved the list of commissioners to the Parliamentary Service Commission. “Speaker and the clerk, let us make sure we do not allow members to go on foreign and local trips next week [today and tomorrow] so that they have an opportunity to vote. The polling station will be the Chamber and there are 349 voters,” Duale said concerning the election of representatives to the East African Legislative Assembly. This morning the House is expected to consider three motions - one seeking the establishment of a teaching and referral hospital in the Coast region to cater for sophisticated diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitative healthcare. The motion is sponsored by Nyali MP Mohamed Ali. The other motions due this morning are on designation and gazettement of specific areas and streets for demonstrations and picketing and one seeking the establishment of an athletics remuneration and endowment fund for the purpose of pooling resources for rewarding and supporting sportsmen. The motion is sponsored by Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut. In the afternoon, the MPs will consider the appointment of members to the Parliamentary Service Commission. There is serious lobbying among legislators eyeing to sit in the powerful PSC. Last week, the opposition recalled its initial list of nominees to allow further consultation. “There are a number of issues that deal with members’ welfare and we will be happy if the House concludes its nominees to the PSC so that those and other issues are dealt with before we go on recess,” Duale said. The House will also start deliberating on the report of the Committee on Selection on appointment of 349 members to various committees. The matter is expected to spill over to tomorrow morning when it will be finalised.