The Kenya Squash and Rackets Association has found themselves in a tricky situation following allegations of misappropriation of a Sh2m grant from the Ministry of Sports. KRSA secured the funds to send a team to the World Men’s Team Championships held in Marseille between December 3 and 5. However, the team of UK-based Chirag Shah, James Dalidi, Peponi School’s Muqtadir Nimji and Bruce Jusa never traveled to the French city and the money has, conspicuously, gone missing. A KSRA official, who sought anonymity, alleged that the federation were asked to return the money, which they did minus Sh900,000. The official said the executive committee received communication from chairman David Ngunjiri and secretary general Leon Keya to the effect that the amount had footed the players’ allowances among other expenses related to the trip, but the players have not received a single penny. When contacted, Ngunjiri and Keya, denied knowledge of such an amount (Sh2m) having been deposited in the association’s account. “I have no idea about such a transaction between the Ministry of Sports and KSRA. We have heard about the allegations and we would like anyone with that information to present it to us,” said Keya promising KSRA would put together a report about the World Men’s Team Championships. On the flip side, an official at the Ministry of Sports brought forth a different account of the transaction. He intimated that the ministry only paid competition entry fees directly to the championship organisers in France, who rejected Kenya’s applications and returned the full amount.  Further, KSRA has been put to task to explain why they conducted the trials to the French tournament while the World Squash Federation had already locked them out of the Championships in June. Andrew Shelley, the WSF CEO told The Star: “The final date for completion of entries was June 26 and despite several reminders, the entry fee was not paid. So on that date, KSRA were formally informed that their entry was canceled.” A message on KSRA’s website reads: “Due to unavoidable circumstances beyond the control of KSRA, Kenya will not participate at the World Mens Championships in Marseille France 2017.” The squabbles saw  Paul Asamba and Violet Luchendo resign from their positions as members of KSRA after failing to get answers on the whole issue.