Lamu town traders have reaped big from the 130th Maulid Festival that ended on Friday. Hoteliers, boat operators, small-scale traders and fishermen who spoke to the Star expressed satisfaction at the profits they made during the four-day festival. They said it was a success because of the huge attendance. Local and international Muslim pilgrims trooped to Lamu’s Old Town in their biggest numbers ever. The event attracted visitors from Tanzania, Yemen, Oman, the Comoros, the UAE and the UK. The Maulid Festival is marked annually by a section of Muslim faithful in remembrance of the birth of the Prophet Muhammad in the holy city of Mecca in 570AD. Lamu is a Unesco World Weritage Site and its Old Town is the county’s main tourist destination. Traders from Mpeketoni, Faza, Hindi, Mokowe, Manda, Mkokoni, far-flung islands and neighbouring counties made a killing. “The high turnout of visitors worked to our advantage and left us with more profits,” a trader said. Boat operator Abdi Swaleh said on Friday, “So many pilgrims attended the festival. The demand for our services and goods more than doubled. It was good for business. In four days, we have made more than we could ever make in a normal month.”  Proprietor of the Bush Gardens Seafront Restaurant Ghalib Alwy said they made “good profits”. “The recent Lamu Cultural Festival opened doors to an even better Maulid Festival. There was an improvement in the hotel business,” he said. “We’ve had good business in terms of bookings, and generally recorded increased clientele during the Maulid. We’re glad.”  Thursday was the climax of the festival. Residents and tourists were treated to a number of captivating dances in the Riyadha Mosque Grounds. Other activities included Q’uran Kareem memorisation, an Islamic calligraphy competition, swimming, donkey racing and dhow races. More than 1,000 residents and visitors also benefitted from free medical camps organised by a Turkish agency in partnership with local organisations. They provided checkups, tests, medicine and counselling on ailments such as tuberculosis, asthma, diabetes and high blood pressure. More than 100 boys also faced the cut. Five couples also took advantage of the festival to solemnise their marriages.