Title: Boomerang - EP Artist: Jidenna Genre: Hip-hop/Rap Release: November 10, 2017   Since Jidenna made his debut, he has been among the freshest faces — he even solidified his position, when he got Kendrick Lamar to deliver bars on the Classic Man (remix).  Apart from his vocal capability, one other quality that has made him more likeable is his dapper style — usually in stylish three-piece suits that melds pretty well with his unending choice of hats and his slim cane.   A few months ago, when he visited Kenya to perform at the 2017 Fomo Party III  at the Carnivore Grounds, he made it clear that he was a keen follower of African tunes, and to be more specific, he acknowledged our very own Willy Paul for his brilliant contribution in the local music scene.   Well, it is now pretty obvious that he has embraced the African sound with his latest surprise release "Boomerang", whose aspects is a clear indication of a follow-up of his February debut LP "The Chief". Before this release, he appears as a significant component on the Major Lazor and Dj Maphorisa hit "Particula", which also features other African names such as Nasty C, Patoranking and Ice Prince. The 6-track EP kicks off with a female ranting on voicemail of a long list of complaints on the track "Decibels". "Boomerang" is arguably the most engrossing track on the effort. Jidenna brings on Tiwa Savage on "Spy Candy" and Burna Boy on the remake of the dance hit "Little Bit More". Jidenna also gets to rework one of his LP's hits to offer us with an up to date "Bambi Too," which features Maleek Berry, Migos' Quavo and Sarkodie. Also featured in the project are Wale and Cromwell on the last track "Out of Body".  He often delivers rapped and sung lines, making it difficult for his audience to know where to rightfully classify him. But nobody is making a fuss about that, cause Jidenna understands how to create popular hits, the kind to get you moving on the dance floor.   From this minimalistic compilation, there's not a song that feels grounded in much more than the desire to want to enjoy the moment. And you can actually tell that Jidenna has grown from being under the shadow of other artists like Janelle Monáe to being a complete "Classic Man" who is capable of making his own decisions and experimenting in whatever way he finds fit.   Star rating: 3 out of 5  