Nakuru MCAs yesterday failed to pass a motion on a two-month recess. Some MCAs opposed the motion, tabled by majority leader Stanley Karanja, saying they do not have enough money to go on recess.  Others said the House had not agreed on the issue of car loans and mortgages, which amount to Sh5 million.  Subukia MCA Mary Waiganjo said most of them have no cars to move around their wards, since the loans have not been processed.  The debate forced speaker Joel Maina to adjourn the session for 15 minutes to allow the MCAs to deliberate over the recess motion, before putting it to question.  Tinet MCA David Malel opposed the motion, saying there will be a financial “dry spell”, especially during this festive season.  But Soin MCA Irene Chebichi supported the motion, saying even if members stayed at the House, they will not be entitled to any allowance. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission scrapped allowances.  She said the County Governments Act provides for members to be recalled from recess for special sittings.  The Star has learnt that the majority of the MCAs wanted the car loans and mortgages without producing any security. When the session resumed, Maina said a substantive motion on recess will be tabled next Wednesday for debate.   poor MCAs The House was supposed to go on recess from yesterday to February 13. MCAs opposed to the motion said the House plenary attendance should be extended by two more weeks before the long recess.  On Tuesday, Nairobi MCAs boycotted a plenary session to protest a requirement that they provide security for loans. They said they have been asked to surrender logbooks or title deeds to secure mortgages and car loans. They converged outside the chamber and pledged not to attend sessions if their grievances are not addressed. The MCAs said most of them are first-time legislators and do not have logbooks or title deeds to use as collateral. “Most of us here are poor. We have never owned a car or land. And now someone tells us to provide logbooks, where will we get them?” Karura MCA Joseph Wambugu said. He said their payrolls can act as collateral. MCAs are entitled to Sh3 million mortgages and Sh2 million car loans.  