The United Nations
Security Council is considering a draft resolution that would
insist any decisions on the status of Jerusalem have no legal
effect and must be rescinded after US President Donald Trump
recognised the city as Israel's capital. The one-page Egyptian-drafted text, which was circulated to
the 15-member council on Saturday and seen by Reuters, does not
specifically mention the United States or Trump. Diplomats say
it has broad support but will likely be vetoed by Washington. The council could vote early next week, diplomats said. A
resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the United
States, France, Britain, Russia or China to pass. Trump abruptly reversed decades of US policy this month
when he recognised Jerusalem as Israel's capital, generating
outrage from Palestinians. Trump also plans to move the US
embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv. After the decision, Arab foreign ministers agreed to seek a
UN Security Council resolution. While the draft is unlikely to
be adopted, it would further isolate Trump over the Jerusalem
issue. The US mission to the United Nations declined to comment
on the draft. US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley
has praised Trump's decision as "the just and right thing to
do." The draft UN resolution "affirms that any decisions and
actions which purport to have altered, the character, status or
demographic composition of the Holy City of Jerusalem have no
legal effect, are null and void and must be rescinded in
compliance with relevant resolutions of the Security Council." It calls upon all countries to refrain establishing
diplomatic missions in Jerusalem. Israel considers the city its eternal and indivisible
capital and wants all embassies based there. “No vote or debate will change the clear reality that
Jerusalem” is the capital of Israel, Israel's ambassador to the
United Nations, Danny Danon, said in a statement. Palestinians want the capital of an independent Palestinian
state to be in the city's eastern sector, which Israel captured
in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognised
internationally. The draft council resolution "demands that all states comply
with Security Council resolutions regarding the Holy City of
Jerusalem, and not to recognise any actions or measures contrary
to those resolutions." A UN Security Council resolution adopted in December last
year "underlines that it will not recognise any changes to the June 4, 1967 lines, including with regard to Jerusalem, other than
those agreed by the parties through negotiations." That resolution was approved with 14 votes in favor and an
abstention by former US President Barack Obama's
administration.