The Kitui West MP race could turn into a battle royal as more hopefuls express interest in the seat. The seat was left vacant following the death of MP Francis Nyenze on December 6. In the latest turn of events, it has attracted Maluki Kitili, the son of former legislator Nyiva Mwendwa. The entrance of Kitili came to the fore on Tuesday, when he invited residents to his Matinyani rural home and disclosed that he was ready to throw his hat into the ring once the seat is officially declared vacant. This came as a surprise to many locals as his mother Mwendwa, who lost the Kitui West seat in 2007, had backed Nyenze’s widow — Edith Vethi — to succeed her husband. Mwendwa, widow of the late first Kenyan Chief Justice Kitili Mwendwa, expressed her support for Nyenze’s wife during the burial of the immediate former legislator in Kyondoni village, Kauwi ward, a week earlier. Mwendwa was elected Kitui West MP in 1974 and 1992 on the Kanu ticket and 2002 on the Narc ticket. She lost the seat at the 2007 election, but reemerged to win the Kitui woman representative seat in 2013.  Last year, the veteran politician announced her retirement from elective politics to make room for up-and-coming leaders. She eventually kept off the August 8 polls. Mwendwa, 75, said she would advise and counsel people on politics and family values. Her son’s announcement could, therefore, be a disapproval of her stand. It would, however, pave the way for a bruising contest for the Wiper ticket should Kitili decide to stick to his plans to the end. During Nyenze’s burial, Wiper leaders, including new chairperson Kivutha Kibwana and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr gave every indication that the party would give Nyenze’s widow the ticket if she was interested in succeeding her late husband. Kitili’s mother has been a long time benefactor of Wiper and his entry will complicate the race should he not fall by the wayside. The news about his possible candidacy comes at a time when Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka plans to visit Nyenze’s widow today to convey his condolences. Kalonzo has been in Germany, where his wife, Pauline, is undergoing treatment. Insiders say Kalonzo’s visit could also be loaded with political undertones. He may decide to endorse Nyenze’s widow to tilt the scales of the race in her favour. If both Vethi and Kitili finally enter the fray, the field will be crowded. The six candidates who were beaten by Nyenze at the August 8 polls are spoiling for another fight. Those who ran in August are Robert Lelli (Ford Kenya), Hannington Mbiti (Muungano Party), Ben Mbai (Jubilee Party), Dennis Mulwa (ANC), Redempter Wanjiku (Independent) and Edwin Musyoki (DP). More politicians could also join the race.