Ghost suppliers and contractors could be behind the Sh56.5 billion debt at City Hall, MCAs have been told. In a report presented to the budget and appropriations committee, City Hall says it has ordered an audit of the debt claims, saying some of them are suspicious. MCAs were told that an independent auditor has been hired to probe the debts. City Hall is accusing some suppliers of demanding payment for services and goods which cannot be ascertained. The executive says fraudulent claims, failure to remit statutory deductions by past regimes, high interest rates and the fluctuating revenue collections are responsible for the huge debts. It plans to renegotiate with banks to reduce the high interest rates charged on loans. There are also plans for property swaps to manage the debts. “The county will negotiate with various creditors and debtors with a view to effect swaps,” the report presented to MCAs by budget and appropriations committee chairman Robert Mbatia says. He presented the report last week. Some of the debts are loans taken in the 1970s and 80s, and have been swelling over time because of the interest charged, the MCAs were told.  “The debt composition cuts across loans taken to finance water infrastructure in the 1970s and in the 1980s to finance construction of the Umoja II housing project,” says the report. MCAs had asked for a report on the county’s outstanding debts. The report says City Hall owes statutory institutions Sh23 billion. It includes Sh9.7 billion owed to Lapfund, Sh3.8 billion owed to KRA, Sh3 billion owed to Laptrust and Sh470 million owed to NSSF. The county has also not settled a Sh4.9 billion debt owed to commercial banks. It also has a debt of Sh20.3 billion owed to legal firms. Suppliers and contractors are demanding Sh3.7 billion from the county while retired workers and families of dead employees are claiming benefits totaling Sh142.2 million. In February 2013, a month before the city council was dissolved, it signed off the Sh2 billion Mariakani estate to Lapfund in a property swap agreement to offset a debt. Investigations later showed the council could have lost at least Sh500 million in the deal. The Mariakani estate sits on a 10 acre piece of land with 30 blocks of eight flats each. Valuers put its worth at Sh2.5 billion. Former town clerk Roba Duba denied signing off the transfer.