South Africa's ruling
African National Congress holds an election this weekend - seen
as too close to call - to replace Jacob Zuma as party leader,
with the winner also likely to become the next president. The ANC will announce current president Zuma's successor as
party leader on Sunday, concluding a bruising leadership battle
that threatens to split the 105 year-old liberation movement,
which has been in power since 1994. The race has been dominated by Deputy President Cyril
Ramaphosa, 65, generally favoured by financial markets, and
Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, 68, a former cabinet minister and
chairwoman of the African Union Commission. South Africa's rand firmed 2 percent after courts
ruled that senior officials in two provinces seen as supporting
Dlamini-Zuma had been illegally elected and could not attend the
conference. "Early signs of a win for Cyril Ramaphosa, the more
investor-friendly option, have provided support for the rand,"
John Ashbourne, Africa Economist at Capital Economics said. "But while Mr. Ramaphosa is popular among party members, the
result will be decided by political insiders, who may opt for
his leftist opponent, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma." Ramaphosa won a majority of the nominations to become leader
of the party, but delegates at the Dec. 16-20 conference in
Johannesburg are not bound to vote for the candidate their ANC
branch nominated, meaning it is unclear if he will actually win
the post. Ramaphosa has recently stepped up his criticism of Zuma's
scandal-plagued government, while Dlamini-Zuma has said her
priority is to improve the prospects for the black majority. To his supporters, Ramaphosa's business success makes him
well-suited to the task of turning around an economy grappling
with 28 percent unemployment and credit rating downgrades. In contrast, Dlamini-Zuma is seen as a fierce campaigner
against racial inequality whose hostility to big business has
rattled investors in South Africa. "The outcome is difficult to predict. This creates
considerable uncertainty that is reflected in significantly
increased volatility for the rand," Elisabeth Andreae, analyst
at Commerzbank, said in a note. Growth in Africa's most industrialised economy has been
lacklustre for the last six years, and the jobless rate is near
record levels. Analysts say the ANC leadership battle has made
it hard to reform the economy and improve social services. Zuma cracked jokes at an ANC dinner on the eve of the
conference and said that "it has been a worthwhile experience"
and that he looked forward to stepping down as leader. He is
expected to make a more formal speech at the start of the
conference. He can remain as head of state until 2019. The 75-year-old president has denied numerous corruption
allegations since taking office in 2009 and has survived several
no-confidence votes in parliament. "People can't wait to see his back," political analyst
Prince Mashele said in a newspaper opinion piece.