Surrounded by swamps and accessible only by plane or boat, South
Sudan's Ganyiel, a rebel-held town in a country torn apart by
civil war, has been dubbed a "haven of peace" by its residents. Impoverished and living with the constant threat of floods,
Ganyiel's population of some 40,000 people nevertheless consider
themselves lucky. Several ethnic groups live together relatively peacefully -
navigating the town's waterways in tree-carved boats. The world's youngest nation, South Sudan gained independence
in 2011, but descended into civil war four years ago when
President Salva Kiir accused his deputy Riek Machar of trying to
oust him. The war has killed tens of thousands of people and created
Africa's largest refugee crisis. Fighting has raged along ethnic lines, between forces loyal
to the mainly ethnic Dinka government and the opposition
fighters, most of whom are ethnic Nuer. But while the rest of the country is divided, Ganyiel,
sheltered by marshes, which form natural defences in the centre
of the country, has grown as an ethnically mixed town that could
serve as a model for nurturing pockets of peace elsewhere. "We're a peaceful island within South Sudan," said Ganyiel's
town director, Michael Lot. "Just two months ago, 2,700 Dinka arrived here, fleeing food
insecurity and conflict. They are welcome. The war is political.
It's not between us people." CHALLENGES A third of South Sudan's 12 million population has fled
their homes amid persistent reports of gang rape and ethnic
violence. Despite its well defended location, war remains a constant
threat in Ganyiel and it is regularly hit by floods that destroy
the harvest. The town has depended on food distributions by the UN's
World Food Programme as long as residents can remember. But in contrast to other areas, marriage and trade among
different ethnic groups is common while five aid agencies have
coordinated to provide basic education and healthcare. Each evening, as the sun sets, the town's red dirt airstrip
fills with people taking walks or playing football in the
evening breeze. The bucolic peace is sometimes frayed by disputes over
cattle, land and water, which can escalate into feuds between
clans. And with a prevalence of guns even among civilians,
killings and revenge killings are not uncommon, said a South
Sudanese aid worker who asked not to be named. FREE MOVEMENT Mary Deng arrived in Ganyiel two months ago. She's a Dinka
and her journey north took her several days. "Our community was accused of intermarrying with Nuer people
and we no longer felt safe," said the mother of three. "We move freely in Ganyiel and interact with the community,"
she said, sitting on the ground outside her hut, holding her
youngest son on her lap. "Intermarriage has been common in this
area for a long time." This is largely due to cattle trading, facilitated by the
town's trade union that promotes livestock sales in the
surrounding region and as far north as the Sudan border. "Proximity to the River Nile has linked Ganyiel to Juba and
the outer world, thus making it a hub for the entire region.
Fish and livestock products are exported through the port to the
capital and other markets," said Raphael Ndiku, a Ganyiel-based
aid worker with German agency Welthungerhilfe. Commodities and people have always moved in and out of the
town, mixing its residents with outsiders. "Trade was flourishing here before the war," said Kharbin
Banybor, head of the Panyijiar County Trade Union. "The trade and free movement led to a lot of intermarriages,
even with Arabs from the north," he told the Thomson Reuters
Foundation. Adut Amal, a Dinka woman from the town of Yirol, about 60 km
(40 miles) to the south, is the widow of a Nuer man. Sitting on
a mattress in the shade, she is wrapped in a floral robe. She has lost her eyesight and doesn't know her age, but
still remembers the day she came to Ganyiel after her marriage. "My husband was a trader who knew my family well. It was
difficult to leave my home and move away, but the community
welcomed me openly," she said, recalling her difficulties
learning the Nuer language and the culture's songs and customs. "I still sing Dinka songs, but I know that Ganyiel is my
home," Amal said. "The country is in crisis, but to me all
people are the same." TRADE Access to food has been a struggle in Ganyiel and the
townspeople depend on food drops by plane. The sparse selection of goods in the market are brought in
from Juba by Nuer traders and are shipped up the Nile through
government-held areas by their Dinka partners. "It's increasingly difficult and the markets are almost
empty now, but we try to keep our businesses going," said
shopkeeper Kuany Thiong, standing by his stall selling flour,
onions and yeast. There are few vegetables in the market –
families live mainly on sorghum and beans. Helicopters and small airplanes arrive on the dirt airstrip
several times a week, bringing in aid workers and health
personnel. "They have figured out how to make it work, covering the
town's basic needs," said Ian Ridley, head of South Sudan’s
United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA). "The need is still great, even though Ganyiel enjoys
relative peace and safety due to its geographic location." For Banybor, the trade union head, Ganyiel is a model town,
even with widespread poverty and hunger. "Both the humanitarian
response and the interethnic relations work. A lot can be
learned from it," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. So-called bottom-up grassroots peace initiatives need to be
pursued as well as peace talks at the top level, said a
Juba-based expert on conflict monitoring. The December-to-May dry season usually intensifies clashes
and there is little chance of peace talks to end the war,
diplomats and analysts said last month. "The war is all around us and it's dangerous," said Banybor.
"I'm happy that we get to feel safe in Ganyiel for now."