Kenya has received a Sh38 billion grant from the Global Fund to help fight HIV, tuberculosis and malaria for four years. The country got the largest allocation of any African country whose applications were accepted early this month.  A ceremony was held on Friday. The government will control the use of Sh27.2 billion. The Kenya Red Cross Society will get Sh7.3 billion and Sh4.3 billion will go to Amref. Read:Kenya pledges Sh500 million to Global Fund to fight HIV, TB, Malaria Sh32 billion will be used to control HIV and tuberculosis, while the remainder will be used for malaria prevention and treatment. Linden Morisson, who heads the High Impact Africa Department at the Global Fund, said the money will be released in two annual tranches. The first is expected in January. Also Read:Kenya donates largest contribution from Africa to combat HIV, TB and Malaria Approval for the cash comes four months after the Global Fund Technical Review Panel approved Kenya’s application.  The panel, which recommends to the Global Fund which proposals should be funded, is headed by TB researcher Jeremiah Chakaya. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said support from the Global Fund had enabled the government to provide free HIV, TB and malaria services in all public hospitals. “With this new grant, we will continue to support prevention, diagnosis and treatment interventions for these three diseases. I encourage all Kenyans to utilise these services to improve their quality of life,” Rotich said during the signing ceremony on Friday.  Kenya also committed to allocate Sh76.7 billion to fight the diseases over the next two years. Head of the National Malaria Control Program Erjesa Waqo, who spoke on behalf of Health CS Cleopa Mailu, said the grant will let counties work with the national government for proper use of the funds. “These three diseases are major contributors to our illness burden and deaths. So we have to ensure we do not roll back the gains that we have made over the past six years,” Waqo said. With the help of the previous grants, Kenya has managed to put more than one million people on anti-retroviral treatment, distribute 15 million mosquito nets and support about 900,000 people diagnosed with TB. Kenya has received 19 grants worth Sh100 billion from the Global Fund since 2012. Click here for latest political news