President
Uhuru Kenyatta will not hold political talks with opposition leader Raila
Odinga or the other NASA leaders. The
head of state met a committee of governors dubbed the Peace and Reconciliation
Committee in Kwale on Friday on the sidelines of the county bosses’ induction
and told them that he will only engage on genuine issues of development. “The
President told the governors that he will only discuss genuine needs and
grievances related to development and guided by his Big Four agenda,” said a
source that was in the meeting.  The
meeting was attended by, among others, the Council of Governors’ chairman Josphat
Nanok, Kakamega's Wycliffe Oparaya, Makueni’s Kivutha Kibwana, Kiraitu
Murungi (Meru), Salim Mvurya (Kwale),  Joyce Laboso (Bomet), Jackson
Mandago (Uasin Gishu), and Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua). Read: Raila: I will carry the Bible, I must be sworn in During
the meeting, the President is reported to have said he will not meet the NASA
leaders or anyone else to discuss a political agenda however well it is camouflaged. He
told them that he was present in 1997 during the Inter-Party Parliamentary Group
negotiations, whose architects are the same people who are now dissatisfied and
want talks. He said he was also there in 2003, when the clamour for more post-election
talks led to the failed national referendum, Kenya’s first plebescite, and the
main issues were the same as now. The
President recalled that one-and-a-half years ago, diplomats and the clergy led
the clamour for the IEBC to be removed and the removal of people from office
who had done nothing wrong. “He
is not returning to that journey. That’s for others. He is open to discuss the
economy and development and this is not about talks with NASA. He will reach
out to different groups at the appropriate time,” said another source in the Presidency. The
Western powers led by US Ambassador Robert Godec and British High Commissioner Nic
Hailey as well as Kenyan religious leaders have backed dialogue to end the
country’s post-election political standoff. However,
President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto have maintained that they
would only entertain discussions on how to implement the Jubilee manifesto and
not about sharing power. In
what could further deepen the country’s political crisis, Raila yesterday – for
the first time since his botched swearing-in – kicked off a flurry of regional
consultative meetings on NASA’s way forward with elected leaders. Raila,
who has been at the Coast since December 12, launched the Coast People's
Assembly Convention, widely seen as a vigorous campaign to stoke disaffection
and fury among millions of his frustrated supporters. Many
opposition backers have expressed anger and frustration following the aborted
oath-taking fete, with some accusing NASA of betrayal. They have demanded that the
NASA leadership announces its next steps. In
Kilifi, Raila led top NASA strategists in a meeting with governors, MPs and
MCAs drawn from all the Coast counties in the wake of protests by some regional
leaders over allocation of parliamentary slots. The
meeting was attended by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart
Amason Kingi, as the Coast political heavyweights sought to consolidate and
buttress their backyards inside NASA. The
opposition has also lined up a series of meetings countrywide with grassroots leaders
in what appears to be a change in strategy in NASA’s anti-Uhuru rebellion. During
the conventions, NASA experts led by chief strategist David Ndii and Siaya
Senator James Orengo have been tasked with the responsibility of explaining the
opposition’s course. And
yesterday, they renewed their push for either a fresh election or secession,
further setting the stage for a confrontation with the State, which has made threats
against the separatist ideology. “So
talk of self-determination is our right,” Ndii, who was dramatically arrested
weeks ago and released without charge, told the meeting. This
was seen as a response to the President, who on Friday warned stern action
would be taken against leaders pushing for secession. “We
can have dialogue, either individually or collectively, but one thing is clear:
There is a line, and if you cross it, the law will deal with you,” he warned when
he addressed the governors’ devolution conference in Diani, Kwale. ODM
executive director Oduor Ong’wen, who sits in a committee formed to spearhead
the People's Assembly, said the opposition's plan to swear in Raila was still
on. “We
will swear him in, wapende wasipende [whether they like it or not],” he said in
the meeting in Kilifi. “I
believe, and many other people believe, the only legitimately elected person as
the President of the Republic of Kenya is none other than Raila Odinga,”
claimed Ong’wen, as he rallied leaders behind the People's Assembly. Read: 'Wapende, wasipende': NASA plans national fete for Raila swearing in Ndii
maintained that Kenya would only heal if ownership of resources is recognised
locally. “What
happens in Lamu is a national project, but what happens in Nyeri is a local
project,” said the renowned economist behind the separatist ideology. While
Raila launched the consultative forums, all eyes will be on a high-level alliance
meeting on Wednesday that would not only determined the fate of the NASA
coalition, but also map out the alliance’s next steps, including deciding if
there will be any talks with Jubilee. The
meeting was put off from Monday to allow Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka more time
to arrive in the country from Germany. Kalonzo,
the NASA deputy in command, will arrive in the country on Tuesday morning from
Berlin, where he has been for nearly two months nursing his ailing wife,
Pauline. His
prolonged absence is said to have caused a huge leadership vacuum within his
Wiper outfit against the backdrop of bitter protests from party MPs over the
running of NASA affairs. The
crisis talks come in the wake of internal rifts within the alliance triggered
by the fallout on sharing of parliamentary leadership positions and EALA
elections. NASA
affiliates are said to be jittery over a decision by Raila’s ODM party to grab
most of the top House leadership positions, including in the prestigious
Parliamentary Service Commission. Wiper
has particularly accused ODM of shortchanging them, while Ford Kenya and ANC
are said to be grumbling quietly. Click here for the latest political news  