The government will subsidise signal charges to allow more investors into the media industry, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said yesterday. Speaking at a Nairobi hotel, the CS said the state is in the process of separating the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation and Signet. “In the next five years, the government will facilitate media and production houses to enable them diversify content,” said CS Mucheru. While appealing to media owners to engage the government more frequently, Mucheru noted that producers need to come up with “more catchy and creative” content to attract more advertisers. “Media owners, as key stakeholders in the ICT sector, you need to come up and make your voice heard by the National government," said the CS. “When the government banned political advertisements during the election period, no media owner opposed our plans of having more engagements in the industry,” he added. This comes even after the government reduced signal charges for broadcasters in November 2016. The Communications Authority of Kenya reduced the signal cost to Sh89,545 per megabit per month, down from Sh125,990 to broadcasters in Nairobi and its environs. The telecommunications regulator also reduced the signal cost to Sh37, 311 from Sh93, 202 to broadcasters in major towns other than Nairobi and Sh32, 961 monthly for broadcasters in remote areas. Broadcasters had cited the cost of signal distribution as one of the factors limiting progress in the industry. Mucheru further asked media owners to adopt change in content development according to the market and audience growth in order to attract advertisers arguing they were the primary source of revenue. According to Mucheru, four media companies in the country control 95 per cent of advertising revenue. “Google and YouTube have great audience platform and advertisers can see more distribution of the audience and this is how they get to attract millions of revenues when it comes to advertising,” Mucheru said. He noted that the government will support the various media platforms to ensure they get government advertisements. “The President has pointed out four key areas of focus in his second term and this will be to grow the manufacturing industry, universal health care systems, 100,000 new affordable home units and food security and as the government plans to look for distributors, so should the media industry also be part of it by securing advertisements,” he said. Mucheru noted that digital media had introduced potential new revenue streams from paywalls, subscriptions and online events, publishers all still have significant advertising revenues that they need to retain and grow, increasingly on multiple devices.