Residents of Pandanguo village, are in dire need of food and water following a dry spell that has hit the area lakes, rivers and boreholes dry. The residents whose village borders terror prone Boni forest, have to trek for over 20 kilometres in search for water after their only fresh water borehole turned salty a month ago. The situation has increased human-wildlife conflict, leaving them with no option but to drink the highly saline water, a situation that has left them worrying over a possibility of an outbreak of waterborne diseases. Adan Golja, a village elder, appealed to the national and county governments to supply them with fresh water and food until the dry spell is over. “We have no food and water. We have to trek for over 20 kilometers to Witu trading centre in search of food and fresh water. The dry spell is very bad.The hot sun makes it worse for those who trek for water and as such,many just stay back and use the salty water.Our children and adults now suffer from strange skin ailments. We are appealing to the national and county governments to supply us with water and food,” Golja said. He said all crops had dried up due to the dry spell, leaving the villagers with no single supply of food. Families have been forced to go without meals.  Aki Sharuti, their spokesman, questioned why the national government had halted relief food distribution programmes to the community as earlier promised at the beginning of the Linda Boni security operation in 2015. Sharuti said the county government had also halted a water distribution programme to the village yet the community was still in need. He said due to lack of a balanced diet, many children in the village now suffer from malnutrition. “When they started this operation,they made us believe they would take care of us knowing very well that our livelihoods had been directly affected by the presence of troops in our areas. Years down the line, we are suffering while they are silent. We don’t have food and water.The county government stopped giving us water despite knowing very well the challenges we face as a community. Our children have borne the most brunt as many are now suffering malnutrition,” Sharuti said.                          