A two-year-old was subjected to abuse by her foster parents. The child was rescued on November 7, after an anonymous call was made to a children’s home in Kikuyu constituency, Kiambu county. “The caller informed me there was an adopted child who was being abused. She said the child had a serious burn on her mouth and needed to be rescued,” children’s officer Harriet Wangui said yesterday. Wangui immediately contacted the adoptive mother and asked her to report to their office, along with the child. “I had to verify the information before acting. It was only prudent that I respond with facts,” she said. During the phone conversation, the mother said she was unwell and could only report to their offices the following day. On November 14, the mother made her way to the home. Home officers examined the child and found she had been abused. They informed the Kikuyu police station boss. “I was in total shock. Her upper lip was badly burnt and, from a closer look, pus had formed inside, causing a sever swelling,” Wangui said,  The child had another burn on the palm of her hand and old wounds on other parts of the body.  “I had asked the mother to come with documentation proving the child was released to her — she did not. Upon inquiry, she said the papers were with their lawyer and it would take a while to receive them.” The child was taken to Wangige Hospital, where, asked about the burn, she told doctors, “Mama choma na moto (mother burnt it).” The woman was defensive and said the child drank hot milk. Doctors were not convinced. “Remember what burned you? It was hot milk,” she told the child, but the doctors proved otherwise. The child is now at Nairobi Women’s Hospital. In the past 10 years, more than 13,878 children have been abandoned by their parents. Neglect and abandonment are the major forms of child abuse. The burnt child was abandoned by her parents only two days after she was born.  The foster mother, a hairdresser, has two older boys and is pregnant with a girl. Her last born is 10. Her accountant husband works for a Nairobi law firm. The woman changed her narrative and said the child was burnt with an iron box.  Since that day, the two year old has kept mum about what caused the serious burns on her lips and left hand.