Uganda president Yoweri Museveni got on the receiving end after lecturing twitter users on how to stay young without being sick. Museveni, who has ruled Uganda for the past 30 years, said he does not take alcohol and bragged that has never been admitted to hospital. "I have managed to make it to 73 years of age because I do not drink alcohol," Museveni said via twitter on Friday. He added: "I have been here for the last 30 years and all this time you have never heard that Museveni is sick and is hospitalised. I do not have time for sickness." With 1,252 Retweets, 2,029 Likes and more than 700 responses, twitter users from Uganda and Kenya criticised the president for being 'drunk in power'. "Your friend Robert Mugabe is 93 and he is very silent about it! Being 73 is not news that Uganda population want to hear! Instead tell them when you are going to retire," @lloydOnyango said. @MwamburiV said: "But M7 you are already drunk with power 24/7." "Wish you healthier retirement Mr. President," @YonaYonga said. @isaac_aliyah said: "Quite frankly, there's no correlation between death and alcoholism. He thinks people who make it past 73 yrs are teetotallers yet I know so many drunkards fit as a fiddle and past 80 yrs. pple who sip wine tend to be happier and healthier." "That's a silly argument Mr President. Then why you move around with a mini hospital in your convoy even when you are just traveling," @AdamsNassy said. @deuce_mercy said: "This is why you should retire before sickness retires you for us pleaaaaase!" "When are you planning to leave the position?? being medically fit doesn't mean to be the president ever. give chance to others," @siidka14 said. @monicaatieno191 said "Bragging becoz you still alive? Ugandans are in a mess just like kenyans. God help Africa." "Old age comes with wisdom,unfortunately yours is the opposite," @soenirono said. @TeezyFBaby1 said: "You've been able to live to 73 coz (sic) you have held onto power for all of your adult life with access to quality health care that's out of the reach of most your citizens." Since 1986, Museveni has riled Uganda being among Africa's longest-serving leaders.  Some leaders who have served for long are Equatorial Guinea's Teodoro Obiang (38 years), Cameroon's Paul Biya (35 years), and Congo's Denis Sassou Nguesso who has been president for two stints totalling 33 years. Uganda removed term limits in 2005 to extend Museveni's rule. The east African nation has seen far less violence under Museveni than the two dictators who preceded him.  But now tensions are rising as social services crumble and parliamentarians attempt to remove a constitutional age cap that would bar Museveni from standing in the next election. Read: Uganda MPs vote to remove president's age limit set at 75 Click here for the latest political news