MPs yesterday demanded an independent audit of the 2017 KCSE exam, claiming the Executive interfered with its marking process. At the same time, the lawmakers want Education CS Fred Matiang’i to immediately resign to pave way for the audit. Speaking at a Nairobi hotel, the MPs also demanded a comprehensive report from the Kenya National Examinations Council, explaining the mass failure of the 2017 candidates. “If Knec was forcibly guided by any individual inside or outside the council, it should come out and tell us,” Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said. The MPs claimed that the Teachers Service Commission was used to influence the marking process. “TSC is not an extension of the Executive that is insensitive to teachers’ welfare,” Amisi said. Read:NASA MPs mull impeaching Matiang'i over 'shocking' KCSE failures The MPs’ demands came after more than 500,000 out of 610,000 candidates who sat the 2017 KCSE exam failed to qualify for university admission. Only 70,073 students scored the pass mark of C+ and above. The legislators said 2.5 million Kenyans will be jobless and depressed if the current trend is allowed to continue. They want international experts called in to review the reports before presentation to the public. “This should be done by some of the most credible auditing companies in the country together with statistical experts,” Amisi said. The MPs have written to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, demanding a recall of Parliament for them to immediately start the process of auditing the exam. “The impeachment of Matiangi is part of the cards on the table,” Uriri MP Mark Nyamita said. “The hastened handling of the process was an indication that the Executive influenced the outcome of the process.” However, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale scoffed at the MPs suggestion, saying they did not have powers to ask the Speaker to recall the House. Read:Duale scoffs at NASA MPs' plan to recall House over KCSE results “It is ridiculous that they can purport to have any powers to write to the Speaker to recall the House. It’s only the leader of Minority or the Majority leader who can write to the Speaker on recalling of Parliament on a matter of national importance,” Duale told the Star on the phone from Cairo, Egypt. “The three MPs must read and understand the Standing Orders.” They too need to read the revised standing orders and Speaker’s communication in the 11th Parliament on the threshold and signatures required, Dueale tweeted. Parliament is currently on a long recess until mid-February. The MPs had told Kenyans not to politicise the matter, saying it was in the interests of children. “The question to ask is how the students passed their mock exams and other prior tests only to fail in the national one,” Amisi said. Click here for latest political news  