Knut officials have stormed the 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa to demand Wilson Sossion's exit. The officials from Central shouted down the secretary general as he was on stage, saying Sossion is pro-Opposition. One person was injured after being hit on the head with a chair as officials fought. Police intervened and dispersed them.  KNUT officials turn chaotic as they demand the removal of secretary general Wilson Sossion during the 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa, December 14 2017. /CALVIN ONSARIGO Mark Wamuthenya from Thika accused Sossion of "sleeping with NASA" and jeopardising the interest of teachers. He said they will follow the law and eject him. George Njoroge from Kiambu said Sossion should choose between being an MP or secretary general. "If Sossion will relinquish his post, it won't go to Central. The constitution says Sossion can't be here. You cannot be in Opposition and expect to negotiate with the government on behalf of teachers," he added.  KNUT officials turn chaotic as they demand the removal of secretary general Wilson Sossion during the 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa, December 14 2017. /CALVIN ONSARIGO Dennis Masika from Nyeri claimed goons were hired to block them from disapproving Sossion's stay in office. On Wednesday, Labour CS Phyllis Kandie said Sossion and other trade union officials in nominated and elective political posts should vacate office. "This notification to vacate office applies to all trade union officials holding either nominated or elective positions in any county assembly or Parliament," Kandie said in a gazette notice.  A police officer disperses KNUT officials as they demand the removal of secretary general Wilson Sossion during the 60th Annual Delegates Conference in Mombasa, December 14 2017. /CALVIN ONSARIGO But Sossion said he will not resign, adding that he will not "succumb to the government's intimidation". More on this: I will not resign from KNUT, Sossion says in response to vacate notice Click here for the latest political news