A week to the swearing-in of opposition chief Raila Odinga as President, the state has warned that NASA leaders will be punished if they carry out the audacious plan. Attorney General Githu Muigai yesterday told the Star NASA will be violating Constitution Article 3(2), obligating everyone to uphold and respect the Constitution. "Any attempt to establish a government otherwise than in the compliance with this constitution is unlawful," says Subsection 2. "The law as clear as day and night," Muigai said, adding that anyone violating it will be committing an offence.  NASA, however, cites Article 1 giving all sovereign power to the Kenyan people, as justification to swear in Raila as the People's President. Read: NASA to swear in Raila as president The National Intelligence Service has recommended NASA leaders be arrested and charged with treason if Raila is sworn in, intelligence and police sources tell the Star. The Penal Code says anyone who tries to form a government contrary to the Constitution could face charges of sedition, undermining a legitimate government and treason, which is punishable by death. In 1982 several people were arrested and charged with offences including treason for attempting to overthrow President Daniel Moi. Raila arrested and detained. Despite warning from the government, the former Prime Minister's defiant allies are charging ahead with plans to swear him as the People's President in the National People's Assembly. Read more : 'Liberation struggle on': Raila forms People's Assembly Some strategists suggest a Million Supporter March to State House soon after Raila takes his oath of office. It is not clear what the oath, the procedure and setting will be. The covert plans by the opposition are said to be among factors leading to the dramatic arrest on Sunday of NASA strategist David Ndii. He is head of the seven-member committee spearheading inauguration plans. In a statement to newsrooms on Monday, the committee said the inauguration is on, despite the state crackdown. “Arrangements for the constitutive session of the People's Assembly on December 12, 2017, where the Kenyan people will, among other things instal the leadership and unveil a roadmap to electoral justice and the rule of law are very advanced and a detailed programme shall be released by the NASA leadership in due course,” the committee announced. Raila's declaration that he will take the oath of office is causing sleepless nights for many people in government. While security agencies are doing 24-hour surveillance on most NASA leaders — including tapping their telephone conversations —Jubilee politicians are continuing to send emissaries to NASA leaders seeking an 11th-hour end to the stalemate. Apart from speaking to Raila's elder brother Oburu Oginga, Jubilee leaders have dispatched people to speak to NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula. They want they to call off the swearing-in, the Star has been told by sources familiar with Jubilee's plans. Read more : NASA to resume demos on Uhuru's reelection, want compensation for killed Maa cows NASA principals reportedly rejected the overtures and instead are pushing ahead with their plans. Yesterday government spokesman Eric Kiraithe accused NASA of practicing “bandit politics” and deceiving their supporters. “It is very unfortunate that instead of working together to alleviate poverty, we are using our positions of leadership to play burdens and burdens of propaganda, whose sum total is only to serve our own ego,” Kiraithe told the Star. Sources said all NASA elected leaders have been directed to facilitate supporters to the venue ahead of the Tuesday event. The venue is yet to be decided but the coalition is said to be eyeing historic Uhuru Park Grounds. They will need to notify police in advance. There were proposals for the opposition to seek a court order barring the government from interfering with the gathering and the constitutional right to assembly. Raila's grand reception from the US on November 17 and his parallel rally during President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing in on Tuesday last week were violently disrupted by the police Several people lost their lives in the confrontations Thirteen county assemblies, overwhelmingly in NASA bastions, have passed motions establishing People's Assemblies. The motions also say the assemblies will not recognise the legitimacy of Kenyatta President, saying the October 26 polls was null and void. “Counties have expressed their preference and they said they do not recognise Uhuru Kenyatta. With that, the people can swear in whoever they deem fit,” Kibisu Kabatesi, Mudavadi's spokesman told the Star. NASA Management Committee co-chairman Johnson Muthama said there is no turning back “If you hear Raila mention something like that [swearing in], then you must know the coalition has taken a firm position about it,” he said. There is talk Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Raila's running mate in the nullified August 8 polls, could fly back for the inauguration. He has been in Germany tending to his ailing wife Pauline. “We are looking at all the logistics and our subcommittee will advise on the way forward,” Muthama told the Star. On November 28, Raila told his supporters he will be sworn in through the People’s Assembly and take over State House on the same day. The inauguration, Raila said, will be like that of new Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa, not Kizza Besigye of Uganda. Mnangagwa, a longtime ally-turned-foe of Robert Mugabe, was sworn in as President two week ago after a bloodless military coup. The meaning of Raila's statement remains a subject of speculation. If opposition supporters make the audacious move to mount a Million Supporter March to State House, it would be reminiscent of the 18-day revolution that brought down Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in 2011. But it wouldn't last 18 minutes. “We will swear in Raila and then march to State House. It may appear unimaginable but it is a moment we are savoring, ” Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi told the Star. Political analyst Danstan Omari yesterday told the Star Uhuru faces an uphill task to govern for five years if Raila doesn't publicly recognise him as President. He downplayed any consequences of Raila's swearing-in, saying although the opposition leader had been cornered legally, politically he is as lethal as ever. “When you swear him in, then you ask yourself, he goes where because someone else has the instruments of power and the appropriate tools of governance,” Omari said. “He [Raila] has exhausted all the constitutional means to ascend to power, but politically he remains lethal,” he said. On Monday Raila pledged the quest for electoral justice will not be broken by state intimidation. "I want to say this for free to this government. The people of Kenya will not be into submission...You can not rule a people against their will, he said. "The will of the people shall ultimately prevail. Kenyans' move towards electoral justice is unstoppable. The people of Kenya will not stop until they get electoral justice to ensure each and every ballot cast by the voter counts," he said Click here for the latest political news