Thousands of girls and women are hurting as the seemingly inextricable culture of female genital mutilation returns to Marakwet and several pastoralist communities across the country after a hiatus in recent years. Many women say they have been forced, while others are said to be demanding to undergo the horrendous mutilation. In Marakwet, the number of females undergoing the cut climaxed in late November and early December. Recent figure documented by NGOs and the authorities indicate that at least 2,300 girls have faced the circumciser’s knife in just four weeks. The worst-hit areas, chiefs say, are Endo, Embobut and Arror wards. NGOs leading the fight against the practice include the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, World Vision Kenya and Marakwet Girls’ Foundation. The FGM culture appears to be so entrenched that dangerous goons are hired to protect girls circumcised secretly in bushes. Brazen circumcisers have devised ways to escape chiefs’ and police radar, carrying out the mutilation at night in the cover of darkness. In Wewo sublocation, Kipchumwa location, on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties, 11 underage girls underwent FGM in the first week of November, barely three days after two other girls were circumcised in Kipkaner location. Assistant chief Richard Kemboi says he stormed Wewo village to stop the circumcision but he and a police officer retreated after they were confronted by armed youths. The two incidents seemingly opened the floodgates, with many women and girls being forced to follow suit. Koibirir chief Haron Kisang says 15 girls underwent the cut as the circumcision season began.  “I was personally chased away and warned by hired goons, who blocked my way as I went to stop the circumcision. Locals who support the illegal practice have also perfected the art of misleading chiefs on the pretext of reporting the incidents,” Kisang says. He says several girls, disguised as boys, are circumcised unnoticed by security agencies. We only get to know about the FGM incidents after they have already happened, he says. At the neighbouring Kaben location, chief Joseph Lokanda says the practice returned to several villages in the location and neighbouring locations, shocking security agencies, since locals had shunned the practice for some time.   LIVING IN FEAR Several women and girls against the cut and who did not want to be named say they are living in fear, as some girls have been forced by men to undergo the cut against their will. “We are so afraid that more women and girls will be forced to undergo FGM. We are urging the state to move with speed to arrest men and elders forcing women to undergo circumcision,” a woman told the Star. Disturbing media reports indicate that at least 2,000 girls in Tiaty in neighbouring Baringo county have been mutilated, despite spirited efforts to contain the illegal practice. MGF founder Ruth Kilimo says the number could go higher by mid-December, noting the mutilation is taking place massively in remote villages. Kilimo said this year’s FGM resurgence is the worst in the history of female circumcision in recent years in Marakwet. At least 1,200 women and girls underwent FGM in the area in 2015. “This thing is happening in all villages across Endo ward. Over 2,000 girls have been circumcised, and we fear the numbers may rise significantly during the holiday season,” Kilimo said. She said girls aged nine and 10 years are forced to undergo the cut because they don’t resist the chilling cultural practice.  “We have reports that some young girls are suffering in the bush. They are being rushed secretly to hospitals for treatment,” she says.   WOMEN ‘DEMAND TO BE CUT’ Mokoro chief Josephine Yego is a frustrated local administrator. She expresses concern over the rising cases of adult women demanding to undergo the cut due to peer pressure and fear of being demeaned in a society where womanhood is traditionally attained through circumcision. Yego says FGM is a culture valued so much that even married women who have not been circumcised are ridiculed, ostracised and stigmatised in the community. “It is disturbing that some young men are turning back their uncut wives to their parents to undergo FGM,” the chief said. She adds:  “They do it in bushes in far places, where local authorities can’t reach easily. You only learn about the circumcision ceremonies when it is too late to rescue the girls.” Yego, however, hailed efforts by the state and NGOs to stem the banned practice, saying 75 per cent of women are resisting the retrogressive culture. She says this has forced men backing the practice to coerce women into accepting to face the knife. Endo ward administrator Lydia Kipkeu recalls how, one morning, 101 girls underwent FGM in Kapsiren Village in one night. Kipkeu says she has never witnessed or heard of such a massive ritual in any village in the Kerio Valley-based ward. The county official urged the state, through the anti-FGM board, to move with speed to reduce further cuts. Tot Primary School headteacher Richard Rutto says 30 of his pupils went through the chilling rite soon after schools closed in October for the long December holidays. “At least five girls fail to resume learning in January whenever massive circumcisions take place. It has really affected transition and performance of girls,” he says. Rutto says some girls fail to respect teachers after the cut, claiming they are prepared for marriage and not to continue with studies. The school manager said circumcised girls disrespect female teachers who never underwent the cultural, regarding them as ‘not women enough’. At least 200 girls and tens of women recently congregated at Tot Primary School and expressed their agonising moments in the face of ruthless circumcisers operating under the protection of elders and local youth.   STIGMA FOR SHUNNING CUT Sheila Jepkorir, a student at a secondary school in Trans Nzoia, narrated how she dodged ruthless circumcisers. Jepkorir says she faced insults hurled towards her, with women and fellow girls who have undergone the cut at her Kaptoboko village, describing as a dirty young woman. “I managed to escape the cut but I have been insulted and isolated. They told me that I am now an outcast and that no man will even think of marrying me,” she says. The student says girls as young as 10 are forced to face the cut. They are threatened that they will not be accepted in the community if they resist the cut. “Many of my friends who underwent FGM in previous years have dropped out of school. I don’t know what they are told until they drop out of school,” she says. Janet* (name changed), 14, says she was forced too flee her home after her parents asked her to join other girls to be cut. “I was denounced by my own parents after I refused to undergo FGM. I had to go far from home to stay with a relative,” the courageous girl says. She says the practice is so rampant, taking place as if it were a legal practice. At Sagat village, Esther Amadi, a pastor’s wife, says isolation among women is forcing married women who declined to be cut during their teenage to undergo circumcision. Amadi says FGM backers take advantage of young girls because they are easy to be persuaded and don’t raise their voices to resist circumcision. She says girls between nine and 12 years don’t understand that the female circumcision in outlawed in Kenya. “Women who don’t support this illegal practice are given all sorts of bad names. They are described as chesilian [a derogatory Marakwet name for a cursed woman],” Amadi says. Amadi says they are described as ‘filthy women’ who engage in harlotries. Uncut women are shamed publicly, often being warned by elders that their husbands will not stand or talk before men in the community. “Linah Kilimo [former anti-FGM board chair] mounted a vigorous campaign to end this practice. The fight lost momentum when she left office,” she says.   ALTERNATIVE RITES The Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act came into force in Kenya in 2011, making forced female circumcision illegal. Anti-FGM board CEO Bernadette Loloju says the board is working closely with chiefs to stop the practice. Loloju says the board is working with NGOs to intensify education. “We are planning to introduce alternative rite of passage for girls to minimise the number of girls undergoing circumcision,” she says. The alternative rites will begin on December 11 in Arror, Marakwet West. Loloju could not confirm the exact number of women and girls who have undergone FGM, but feared the situation is worse compared to previous years. “Chiefs are doing their best but it seems the situation went out if hand. As a board, we can’t arrest the perpetrators. We are urging security agencies to up their game,” she says. Former Anti-FGM board chairperson Linah Kilimo says she is shocked that FGM has returned in the area and urges chiefs and the police to take action against perpetrators of forceful FGM. “Adequate awareness should be done. I can only urge local authorities to enforce the law,” she said. Kilimo, whose term at the helm of the country’s anti-FGM board ended in December last year, urged parents forcing young girls to undergo the cut to be mindful of the health and psychological consequences resulting from FGM. She said Marakwet had recorded zero incidents of FGM following rigorous campaigns and support from local administrators between 2013 and 2014, blaming the resurgence on laxity among chiefs and deputy county commissioners. A Marakwet elder who did not want to be named says it is a taboo to talk about female circumcision, saying the women and girls who faced the knife did so voluntarily. “No one forces them to undergo circumcision. This is our culture and our women love it. It is difficult to disentangle them from our traditions,” he says.