Lawyers representing Governor Alfred Mutua in a petition filed by former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti challenging his victory yesterday asked the High Court to summon a document examiner to determine the authenticity of signatures relating to controversial affidavits. Ben Musau and Waweru Gatonye also sought leave to enable Mutua file a formal application following the new development in which the governor has challenged the testimony by lawyer Ham Lagat who on Monday told the court he commissioned all affidavits filed by Wavinya. The development emanates from last week’s order by Justice Aggrey Muchelule that Lagat testifies in person on whether or not he commissioned documents supporting Wavinya’s case in the petition. When Lagat took the witness stand on Monday, he owned up to signing all the affidavits for Wavinya, contrary to submissions by Mutua’s lawyers that he (Lagat) had distanced himself from the documents. Mutua’s lawyers have filed affidavits indicating Lagat actually swore an affidavit before a commissioner of oaths denying he commissioned Wavinya’s documents. The lawyers have also submitted they have video evidence of Lagat swearing the affidavit. Musau told Muchelule it was necessary for the court to summon a document examiner from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to shed light on the authenticity of signatures contained in the documents. “The court must not allow proceedings whose credibility are in doubt. This court should summon the DCI to shed light on this report and guide the court on it because it is quite apparent there is a criminal aspect, which I am urging the court not to overlook,” he said. The notice of application was disputed by Wavinya’s lawyer, Willis Otieno, who argued the exercise was a tactic by Mutua to delay the hearing of the petition. “The report is a strange document. It is not part of the evidence in this petition and therefore the court should only be committed to what is formally on record,” he said. Muchelule said he would make a ruling on the matter at a later date and allowed proceedings to continue. It was a blow to the IEBC after the court dismissed an application challenging the filing of witness affidavits by the petitioner a day after the petition had been filed. “Although the filing of the impugned witness affidavits was on September 6 when the petition had been filed on September 5 is duplicated, it is considered that substantial justice will be best served in this petition by the dismissing of the application by the first and second respondents,” Muchelule said. Click here for the latest political news          