KUPPET has opposed a move by the ministry of education to place schools sharing the same parcel of land under one head teacher. The teachers have demanded that the decision be subjected to public participation before implementation.  They spoke in Kisii county on Friday at the union’s 17th Annual Delegates Conference which brought together more than 500 delegates from the 47 counties. Anxiety gripped school heads across the country following Education CS Fred Matiang’i’s decision that two schools sitting on the same parcel of land be placed under one head. Each unit is to have a deputy head teacher. More on this: Matiang'i merges boards of primary, high schools to end turf wars Also read: Head teachers oppose Matiang'i order to merge primary, secondary boards But secretary general Akelo Misori said it was not logistically possible for one teacher to manage up to four schools in one compound. “While we encourage reforms in the education sector, we urge caution and comprehensive stakeholder consultations, before implementing radical policies, for smooth implementation. We support managing those schools under one management board but we must have different head teachers." KUPPET chairman Omboko Milemba said: “The idea of one head for many schools is capitalistic thinking, where you suck the blood of a worker with little compensation. The minister doesn’t want to employ more teachers. We shall stand firm and resist this move.” The union also opposed plans by the Ministry of Education for national schools to run day streams in a move aimed at improving access to education. “Why do we want to reduce national schools to day schools? It will be a management nightmare to have day scholars in these schools. What the CS should be focusing on is developing model day schools across the country, not taking the other way around,” said Edward Obwocha, who is National Secretary for Secondary Education. Kisii Governor James Ongwae who was the chief guest urged unions to embrace a participatory approach to resolving labour disputes in order to avoid disruption of essential services. “Over the past few years, the country has experienced industrial disputes that often lead to immense suffering by Kenyans due to disruption of key services. As you agitate for better pay perks for your members, have the interest of Kenyans at heart,” urged Ongwae. Referring to the Ominde Commission Report of 1964, Ongwae challenged teachers to use education to promote nationalism, patriotism and national unity. “Education is meant to help the youth acquire a sense of nationhood by removing conflict. Teachers should not be sucked into the politics of the day but help quell ethnic balkanisation by being role models within and outside the classroom,” he added. Wilson Sossion, who is Kenya National Union of Teachers Secretary General and nominated MP, attended the conference. KUPPET chairman Omboko Milemba lauded the Governor for instituting reforms during his tenure at the Teachers Service Commission, including introducing the check-off system of remitting union dues. Milemba also questioned the ministers’ new regulations that head teachers have Masters degrees. “How many of his officers at county level have Masters degrees? If teachers must have these degrees, TSC must be headed by professors." More on this: Matiang'i plan to merge school boards ambitious, unrealistic - KUPPET Click here for the latest political stories