A family in Ngong is in agony after their 14 year-old daughter walked out of their home on December 22 and has not been seen since.  Mary Wanjiru, 14, is a standard seven pupil at Nalepo Primary School. Her father Fredrick Kimani reported the matter at Ngong Police Station on Sunday and the case recorded as OB 24/19/12/17. Kimani said, on Monday evening that her daughter has not returned home and her whereabouts remain unknown. “I have called my relatives living in Ongata Rongai and Ngong and no one has any information. But there is another home in Rongai town which I am yet to call,” Kimani said on phone. Ngong police confirmed that a report of a missing child was reported on Sunday and investigations had been launched. Meanwhile, Independent Policing Oversight Authority is yet to investigate the whereabouts of Ngong man alleged to have ‘disappeared in the hands of the police'.  Immediate family members of Daniel Letuyia, 28, are pointing accusing fingers at the police in Ngong. IPOA confirmed Letuyia’s parents and wife are in communication with them and that already they have listed the case for investigations. The oversight body also confirmed the Ngong OCS, Renison Gambo, has been transferred from Ngong. Letuyia is alleged to have been picked by Gambo in Ngong town on September 2; one day after the officers collected his photo from his Olmanyatta home in the same town. His seven-month pregnant wife, Evelyn Achieng, said Letuyia owns a second-hand shoe kiosk in Ngong town. Achieng also said her husband is a known personality and was reportedly seen being picked and locked in the boot of a car belonging to Gambo in a full view of on-lookers. Our effort to reach out to the Ngong OCPD, George Seda have not materialised. Even after sending Seda a detailed message and copying the same to Kajiado County police commander, Kipkemoi Rop, none of them responded. Achieng told the Star that on the day of arrest, Letuyia called her back to say he was being taken to Ngong police station in a car belonging to Ngong police OCS. “Moments later when I called my husband he said; "Hata nimeshikwa na Gambo ananiweka kwa hii gari yake ya white". On calling him back again someone picked up and told me "mfwateni pangani," said Achieng. She explained that before Letuyia was arrested, the police, led by Ngong deputy OCS, invaded their home on September 1and picked her husband’s portrait photo from the wall. “Our efforts to follow up the matter with the police have been unsuccessful, the Ngong OCS (Gambo) claims he was in Mombasa that night of the arrest, while the officer we found at the station on the night of arrest told us that the OCS had been on duty the whole night,” claimed Achieng. She claimed that there have been a number of cases of people missing in Ngong town after they have been arrested. On September 3, Achieng with her mother in law, Peris Letuyia, went to Ngong Police station to make further inquiries about the arrest of her husband but officers told them to make a formal complaint about a missing person. She gave the OB number as 25/3/9/2017, and that a week later they went to see the area OCPD Seda who handed them over to Ngong DCIO. “The DCIO told us to go home and wait for his call. But up to date we have not received any information or call concerning the same,” added Achieng. Letuyia’s mother said her son has never been implicated in any crime but has severally been arrested while drinking in beer joints before stipulated hours. “I also know that my son is a street fighter when drunk. He picks a quarrel with anybody on the road when drunk and that has led to many mark bruises on his face,” said his mother. Click here for the latest political stories