      Residents of Gitugi in Murang'a have criticised county MCAs for attacking their clerk last week. They said the attack on Monday was an unfortunate show of misplaced priorities by the ward representatives. Led by Irene Kiragu, the residents who spoke at Gitugi trading centre in Mathioya asked the MCAs to concentrate on their legislative role and pass laws that would improve their lives. "It is a betrayal to those who queued for long hours to vote for them. We demand better representation," Kiragu said. She accused area MCA Samuel Kihurunjo for inciting the attack against the clerk. Kihurunjo, who is also the deputy speaker, led the MCAs who stormed Chris Kinyanjui's office on Monday in a forceful eviction attempt. Kiragu told Kihurunjo to direct his energy on issues that matter to his constituents. "He should put our interest first. We were shocked to see him leading the attack," Kiragu said. The MCAs accused Kinyanjui of mismanaging the assembly and buying fake sports uniforms for them. Kinyanjui said the MCAs are unhappy with him because they want him to illegally approve hefty allowances for them.  It took the intervention of police officers led by Murang'a OCPD Johnstone Limo to eject the MCAs from Kinyanjui's office. They also wanted Kinyanjui to approve their car and mortgage loans. "We are wondering whether they ran for the position to get money
because they do not seem to care about those who voted for them," Kiragu
said. She said infighting in the assembly will derail development. On Friday, Kinyanjui recorded a statement with the police. County criminal investigations officer Julius Rutere said the perpetrators of the attack will be summoned after they finish interrogating witnesses. Detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission also visited the
assembly on Thursday and recorded statements from Kinyanjui and Limo.   the clerk and the OCPD. Kinyanjui said he is still in the process of identifying the documents that
MCAs took from his office during the fracas. He dismissed claims that the assembly is being mismanaged saying the MCAs
are only three months old in the house and are yet to familiarize with most
management issues. Detectives from the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission also visited the
assembly on Thursday and took
statements from the clerk and the OCPD. Ends  