In his maiden speech yesterday after taking oath
of office, he said the services will continue to run uninterrupted. The governor took oath at 9.45am before Justice Jairus Ngaah at the Nyeri county headquarters. This was the first historical event where the mantle
was passed from a governor to deputy governor in the country. “I want to assure the people of Nyeri there will be no lacuna in the work of the county government. Our programmes and
services will continue to run uninterrupted and at the same moment as
initiated and marshaled by the late governor,” Wamathai said. He warned, however, he will
not tolerate corruption, dishonesty or any malpractices in
his administration. “I will therefore demand total honesty and integrity
within the provisions of the Constitution in whatever we do as county,” Wamathai said. The new governor promised to ensure high-level of transparency and openness in our
his services delivery. “We are admittedly living in an era of increased
transparency and accountability in the conduct of government business. We have
to avoid any brush with the law as we conduct our county government business,”
Wamathai said. He also promised to complete projects that were started by Gachagua as contained in the County Integrated Development Plan. Wamathai said Gachagua was committed to transform the economy of Nyeri county. "I expect maximum cooperation and mutual support by us all to
hasten service delivery and speedy implementation of our county government
programmes,” he said. Leaders present during the occasion included
Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya, Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe, Nyeri speaker Mwangi Mugo, Tetu MP Ndung’u Gethenji and Rigathi Gachagua. Nyeri residents also attended the event held outside
the county offices. Munya said he has confidence in Wamathai, since he has been running the county while Gachagua was ill. Kagwe promised he will work in unity with
Wamathai for the time he will be in office. Rigathi said the Gachagua's family will upport
the new governor. Mugo said the MCAs are ready to work with Wamathai until the end of the term. Gethenji welcomed
the new governor and promised to support him.  