Running a marathon in under two hours is not possible, Kenya&rsquo;s Olympic 5,000 and world 10,000 champion Vivian Cheruiyot has said in response to an initiative by sportswear manufacturer Nike to achieve that feat.Nike has enlisted Kenya&rsquo;s Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge, Ethiopian Lelisa Desisa Bekele and Eritrean Zersenay Tadesse in a bid to break the two-hour mark this year.&ldquo;I have no problem with the project, but I am very skeptical about it,&rdquo; Cheruiyot, 33, told Reuters during a break in training for the London Marathon.&ldquo;The world record can be broken... Kipchoge can do it. The time can still come down from the current (2:02:57), but 1:59:59 is setting the bar too high. They could have set it below the current world record,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;Running a marathon in under two hours is impossible. It doesn&rsquo;t look real. They should have set the bar at slightly under (Dennis) Kimetto&rsquo;s 2:02:57,&rdquo; she said.Cheruiyot, who won two gold medals at the 2011 world championships in Daegu, South Korea, took time off to have a baby before returning to claim the Olympic 5,000m title in Rio last year.She said she would have won the 10,000m as well if her team mates had co-operated, suggesting that Alice Aprot blundered by running too fast too early and leaving Cheruiyot and Betsy Saina on their own.Ethiopia&rsquo;s Almaz Ayana won in a world record time of 29 minutes 17.45 seconds. Cheruiyot was second and Ethiopian Tirunesh Dibaba third.&ldquo;Olympics need meticulous planning, knowing the advanced level of competition. She (Aprot) declined (our plan) and we did not run as a team,&rdquo; Cheruiyot said.She is now focused preparing for the London Marathon on April 23 and will run another marathon in September.&ldquo;I want to run well in London and I am feeling no pressure, despite the strong line-up. Mary (Keitany) and (defending champion) Jemimah (Sumgong) are there, but because I have not competed with them and I have not run the marathon, I don&rsquo;t feel any anxiety,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;I have just started preparing for the event, I ran my first 40km two weeks ago as part of my preparation. I think it will be exciting,&rdquo; she said.