There is something not being said about the 81-day doctors&rsquo; strike, which has resulted in the ignominious jailing of union officials. The officials insist theirs is not just about pay, but the &lsquo;working conditions&rsquo;, meaning the state of our public health institutions. Doctors say the Hippocratic Oath is about saving lives, but meagre investment in public health facilities hinders their work.Billions of shillings are spent on buying drugs that never end up at public health facilities. More billions were spent on leasing equipment that is still in wrapping foam for lack of forward planning on installation. The strike is more about corruption at the Health ministry and the county governments.The workers are saying they want improved services. But the health sector is a multibillion-shilling industry. Capacitating public health institutions means major losses for insurance companies and private hospitals. These will fight tooth and nail to ensure that public health facilities remain in the infirmary so they can continue to reap big.It is no coincidence, therefore, that health provision has been thrown into disarray at a time when there is a murmur that public health insurance will be administered solely by the NHIF. What would refurbished and modernised public health facilities mean for importers of pharmaceuticals and proprietors of private hospitals?Insurance companies&rsquo; fears are real. Well-equipped government hospitals and better remunerated staff will deny private hospitals the privilege of being &ldquo;specialist&rdquo; by default and therefore bring about a dearth of insurance windfalls. An NHIF card that pays for specialised diagnosis and surgery in public hospitals will deny insurance companies premiums.Currently public health facilities get between Sh3-5 billion allocations, while NHIF doles out Sh50 billion to select private hospitals, which leads to rent-seeking. There is an argument to be made if those billions were to be channelled to public hospitals. It will be the day to sing a medical hosanna when all government health facilities have qualified, better remunerated and working staff.It will mean all the facilities are stocked with affordable drugs and under the cost-sharing system, NHIF card holders will access cheap but highly specialised consultation, diagnosis, surgery and treatment. As a result of Sh50 billion channelled to public health facilities, every county will have a real referral hospital. The spiral effect is collateral damage to the private hospitals and consultancy clinics now hogging free tithes from NHIF.Since the plan to channel NHIF cash to public health facilities leaked, there might be some truth in Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli&rsquo;s claim that the doctors&rsquo; strike is being engineered from within the ministry. Consider the friction between CS Cleopa Mailu and his streetwise PS Nicholas Muraguri.Under Jubilee, every time you have cleavages in a ministry, the cause is clamour for tenders. Remember how the Devolution PS began by innocently admitting a typo before the cards of corruption pitted him against a feisty CS Anne Waiguru. It would, therefore, not surprise that it is the severance of NHIF disbursements through insurance companies to private health entities that is causing the ruckus at the ministry and fuelling health workers&rsquo; strikes.Speaking of which, NASA founder and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has never received a response to his query over the leasing of equipment that now lies idle at county hospitals. We pay Sh10 billion a year for equipment that is either installed but cannot be used for lack of qualified manpower or is still in wrapping foam for lack of installation space. We&rsquo;ve already paid Sh30 billion.More perturbing is the suppliers were a select five, who were single-sourced. They also monopolise supply of all the consumables used by the equipment.Communications, publication and conflict management specialist, University of Nairobi.