Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) have announced they will pick the final squad for the 2016 Kenya Open Championship this Friday.The team will be made official at the conclusion of the third and final qualifying tournament, which starts tomorrow (Wednesday) through to Friday at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club.The three-day tournament will be played on a 36-hole format with the sole purpose to ascertain the remaining 17 slots in the 22-man Kenya team.Five pros have already qualified for the prestigious European Challenge Tour event, which returns to Muthaiga in late March.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a great feeling to be golfing at Muthaiga again and the fact that this is the venue for the Open makes it even merrier. This gives our pros an opportunity to feel the event venue prior and therefore thrills and spills are guaranteed,&rdquo; said PGK captain CJ Wangai.They five, who have qualified, are Dismas Indiza, Simon Ngige, Bryan Njoroge, Stefan Andersen and Riz Charania. Indiza, Ngige and Njoroge qualified by virtue of making cuts during last year&rsquo;s Kenya Open. South Africa-based Andersen was handed a slot due to his current form whilst Charania, who is the resident pro at Windsor got his after leading the Kenya Open qualifiers as at penultimate stage last week. Charania won the opening round of the qualifiers at Vet Lab while Indiza, who has already qualified, was the victor last week at Vet Lab. Wangai said: &ldquo;The tussle for the remaining 17 slots will indeed be a tight combat.&rdquo;&ldquo;We expect the pros to play their hearts out at the Muthaiga Grand Finale. The pros know well what&rsquo;s at stake and what it means to sit out of the Kenya Open,&rdquo; said Wangai.She added that the 22 pros selected for the Kenya Open will also be the same to represent the country in the inaugural KCB Karen Masters at Karen Country Club a week prior.&ldquo;From now henceforth, the Kenyan pros will be a busy lot either in training or in tournaments. We will play in the Jamii Telecom PGK Masters on the same week we will be in Karen. This is a major boost to our Kenya Open preparations,&rdquo; said Wangai. Kenya will field five amateurs and 22 professional in the Kenya Open.Meanwhile, Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) has organised a golf tournament to raise funds for Zimbabwe-bound national team that will participate in the 2017 All Africa Challenge. The tournament will be held at Muthaiga Golf Club on Friday and will be played on a Texas scramble.JGF chairman Gitonga Kabera said the Zimbabwe tournament will feature both boys and girls and will also run as a qualification event to the 2017 Toyota Junior Golf World Cup which will be held in June 2017.The boys&rsquo; team will consist of 4 players and girls&rsquo; team will have three. The tournament yesterday received sponsorship boost from Davis &amp; Shirtliff, Crown Paints, Britam, DMC foundation, Prime Bank, Crown Plaza Nairobi, UAP-Old Mutual Group, Sankara Hotel, Ole Sereni , Air Kenya, Nomadic Tents, Shivtronics, Muthaiga Golf Club and Sigona Golf Club, The JGF aim to raise Sh1.5 to enable the team travel to Zimbabwe.