The decade-long legal and policy reforms for the Savings and Credit Co-operative Organisations have largely yielded little progress, a new report suggests. The survey by the UK Aid-funded Financial Sector Deepening indicates saccos are largely insolvent, illiquid, devoid of effective accounting and control systems and systematically failing to monitor or report loan delinquency. &ldquo;&hellip;the challenges and weaknesses of the sector as a whole appear to be the same as identified back in 2005,&rdquo; said Joe Huxley, the co-ordinator for strategic partnerships and opportunities at FSD Africa. There are more than 4,000 saccos which serve local communities and professional groups who were traditionally marginalised by the commercial banks. Key reforms included the establishment of the Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority to oversee the operations of the deposit-taking entities under the Sacco Societies Act 2008. About 215 large saccos had diversified into deposit taking through the so-called Front Office Savings Accounts by 2012, significantly narrowing the gap between them and commercial banks. The FSD report indicates the realisation of the collective risks posed by the expansion into FOSA led the state to convene a multi-stakeholder task force in 2003 to lead a programme for regulatory reform.The move acknowledged that failure or mismanagement by saccos would directly impact on confidence in finance sector.It also provided the context for FSD Kenya&rsquo;s engagement in the sacco sector when in 2005 it conducted a regulatory impact assessment in order to get insights and momentum to the planned reforms.The proposed reforms included the establishment of appropriate, practicable regulations governing saccos and a mechanism to enforce them. Another proposal was the development of a more professional sacco sector capable of competing effectively with other providers and underpinned by a market for consultants able to advise and support this process. &ldquo;And yet 10 years later, independently commissioned analysis suggests the sector retains many if not all the characteristics of concern flagged by the RIA in 2005, and paints a picture of increasing marginalisation of the sacco sector,&rdquo; the report indicates. According to estimates by FSD Kenya, the use of sacco services fell by a third even as the overall financial service use rose by 23 per cent between 2006 and 2013. &ldquo;Moreover, 60.7 per cent of sacco users now also use commercial bank services. Notwithstanding the rationale for saccos as a vehicle for financial inclusion, only 2.1 per cent and 4.6 per cent of the poorest and second poorest quintiles, respectively, actually use sacco services.&rdquo;