Residents of Emali chanted &ldquo;Wiper and NASA&rdquo; during Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s voter registration rally on Wednesday. Ruto was accompanied by Kilome MP Regina Ndambuki and Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, who also had a hard time addressing the crowd. The crowd booed and heckled every speaker who rose to address them during the stopover on the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. Sonko was shouted down when he said the &lsquo;Nusu mkate&rsquo; government sidelined the Kamba community. He was, however, not deterred, and went on to criticise Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka for &ldquo;only putting up big prisons&rdquo;. It is as if he wanted all Kenyans, especially the Kamba community, jailed, Sonko said, amid the chants of &ldquo;Wiper and NASA&rdquo; . Ndambuki was also shouted down when she was invited to address the crowd. &ldquo;Wiper&rdquo; chants rent the air, as the crowd resisted the attempts to lure them into supporting Jubilee.Before she handed back the microphone to Ruto, the enraged Ndambuki told the crowd to respect the government and stop disrupting rallies.Soldiered onRuto then tried to calm the residents down, but he too failed as the crowd continued chanting &ldquo;Wiper and NASA&rdquo;.But he went on with his address and urged them residents to register en masse to vote for JP on August 8. The residents remained defiant. Highlighting some of the Jubilee administration&rsquo;s achievements, Ruto said the Mombasa-Nairobi section of the standard gauge railway has been completed. He said the first train will make its maiden journey on June 1.He said construction of the railway will continue to Malaba to reduce the country&rsquo;s transport problems.Ruto said construction of the Sh12 billion Kibwezi&ndash;Kitui road will begin this month and assured wananchi that the contractor is on site. He added that tarmacking of the 30km Sultan&ndash;Hamud-Ksikeu&ndash;Kilome road has started.Ruto said the government has allocated more than Sh800 million to Makueni Level-5 and Makindu Subcounty hospitals for the purchase of modern equipment.He said more than 36,000 Makueni homes have been connected to the power grid in three years.Ruto cautioned the youth against being used by political leaders to disrupt rallies.The JP team addressed roadside rallies in Mtito Andei, Kambu, Machinery, Kinyambu, Kibwezi, Mbui Nzaui, Makkindu, Emali, Sultan Hamud, Salama and Mlolongo.Other leaders present included MPs Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South), Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East), former MPs Philip Kaloki (Kibwezi West) and Gideon Ndambuki (Kaiti) and Kenya Sports chairman Fred Muteti.