Back in the 1990s, Alex Okosi didn&rsquo;t imagine he would one day be rubbing shoulders with the likes of Bill Gates, BET&rsquo;s Debra Lee or even be able to bring a big rapper like Future to African stages. At the time, the Nigerian-born US-educated media executive was just a visionary passionate about Africa. Two decades later, the media mogul sits at the helm of an entertainment empire spanning the whole continent, as the vice president and managing director of Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN) Africa. VIMN is a pan-African multichannel entertainment network that reaches over 100 million viewers and includes MTV, MTV Base, Nickelodeon, BET, Comedy Central and VH1. Its multiple channel brands are a huge leap from the networks&rsquo; beginnings as MTV Networks Africa back in 2005.Whenever millions of youngsters across Africa want to check out the newest and dopest music videos - be it by Nigeria&rsquo;s Tiwa Savage or Kenya&rsquo;s Sauti Sol - they normally check out MTV Base on TV, or stay locked on the channel&rsquo;s Facebook, Twitter or Instagram pages.Just recently, the network&rsquo;s flagship music awards show, the MTV Africa Music Awards (MAMA), which Okosi launched in 2008, made waves across the globe, so much so that Drake officially acknowledged his win &mdash; Best International Act &mdash; on social media.Alex is a super positive guy - an inspiration to many as well as a force to be reckoned with. His undying love for the continent stands out in his conversations. The word &ldquo;Africa&rdquo; flows out of him almost subconsciously.Alex&rsquo;s usually calm voice and demeanour are part of his signature personality, and as MD of VIMN Africa, he has risen to be one of the people shaping the future of the continent.We had a chat with this super-successful yet down-to-earth gentleman, and it was an interesting conversation. What projects are you working on that will take African music to an even greater level?One thing we&rsquo;ve been focusing on through our MTV Base platform is creating a great pipeline for African music video content, to not only the scene across Africa, but globally, too. We&rsquo;ve done a lot of work trying to make sure the music videos &mdash; through workshops and other initiatives &mdash; are up to the standard of the rest of the world. This enables our artists to travel not only beyond their borders but also outside the continent. One billion people access the MAMA, given that we distribute on all our MTV channels in some shape or form. That&rsquo;s one billion people who get to see the true beauty of African contemporary talent.We are working on delivering another BET Experience Africa in early 2017. What&rsquo;s great about the BET Experience is that it&rsquo;s a lifestyle festival in which music remains a major component. We have a stage for great up-and-coming talent as well as the closing concert, where we bring together African and international talent.As you know, we have the Best African Act category at the MTV EMAs, which helps to continue pushing our continent&rsquo;s music and talent on a global level. We&rsquo;ve also launched other local channels like BET, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central, and we look forward to continue using our brands to push African talent in general.In your interviews, you tend to focus on issues that enhance livelihoods, such as your support for youth empowerment. What&rsquo;s that one thing that happened to you while growing up that you would say has an influence on your current leadership style?My parents were inspirational in terms of my upbringing in a lot of ways, and they ensured that I had the mindset that would let me achieve my goals. What has also been an inspiration to me is learning from other people, too. I have many mentors who guide and inspire me to this day. As a company, we are excited to be able to use our brands to empower and educate people using authentic stories and campaigns. For example, with our pro-social drama series MTV Shuga, the backdrop is authentic and the characters are relatable to African youth. So that&rsquo;s basically what has positioned me to be able to use the network to have a positive impact on lives.There are lots of people who would love to work for Viacom International Media Networks Africa. What do you look for in the people you employ?We look for people who are hard-working; people who want to achieve... who have incredible passion. They should be keen on showcasing what African talent is all about. First and foremost, though, we look at people who are as passionate about Africa as they are about our brands. We want people who can demonstrate what Africa has to offer. Our brands have strict values that spell out &ldquo;Africa&rdquo; as an acronym and one of them is the need for accountable people who are first-time winners. We need people that are respectful to our continent&rsquo;s cultural and business environment.What do you do during your free time?I love to play sports. I love basketball &mdash; I played during my time in high school. I normally shoot hoops in my front yard, chill with my friends when I have the time, as well as connect with my family and associates from around the world.The entertainment industry is a slippery one, yet you have managed to keep your nose clean. How have you avoided scandals throughout the years?I&rsquo;ve really been trying to make sure I stay focused every day and keep my eye on the prize. I value my reputation and that of this company and I wouldn&rsquo;t do anything to compromise either of them.What&rsquo;s your advice to young people in terms of choosing friends and associates?I think it is important to surround yourself with people who are positive role models, who can help you progress in life. Often, we hear stories about great people, but unfortunately, the crowd they associate with may have caused them to end up in a situation that they shouldn&rsquo;t be in. Find and associate with people that have the same values you do. Then their aspirations, their dreams and their work ethic will also rub off on you.Which is your favourite travel location in Africa and around the world?My work requires a huge amount of travel, but I still love to travel for pleasure. I went on vacation a couple years ago to Koh Samui, an island in Thailand, and I loved it. It was my first vacation by myself. On the African continent, I love the major cities &mdash; the verve and energy as well as their vibrant culture. Among my favourite cities are Nairobi, Lagos, Johannesburg, Luanda and Dakar. When you are there, you get to get a feel of the energy of the people, the music, the culture. It all hits you in a very intense way.Who would you say is your favourite African musician or band?I am a big fan of a whole lot of musicians, but lately, I am really enjoying music from Sauti Sol from Kenya, Wizkid from Nigeria and Black Coffee. These artists are making Africa proud not only within the continent but also internationally.