Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki has denied that the National Youth Service is conducting voter registration.There were claims that NYS personnel were caught registering voters at Loaf Primary School in Mowlem and PCEA Church in Karura, Runda on Monday evening. Runda residents detained the servicemen. Sicily said the agency has been &nbsp;registering Youth Empowerment Program (YEP) beneficiaries to streamline identification, payment and management of cohorts. "The system used for biometric registration of NYS cohorts is completely different from the one used by IEBC," she said on Tuesday. "This includes the biometric scanner itself. Whereas the IEBC use a four finger scanner, the NYS is using a single digit scanner." Read:&nbsp;NYS denies claims of conducting parallel voter registrationThe CS said the registration exercise was conducted in W estlands as it is among key YEP areas targeted for a launch. "The biometric registration has been in use for YEP at NYS since phase two of the programme early in 2016. I nterested parties have been invited to verify the nature of data captured by the NYS biometric equipment at the Gigiri police station," she said. Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero earlier asked the IEBC to come clean saying the claims were "real and a plot by&nbsp;Jubilee Party and the electoral agency to rig elections in Nairobi". Kidero questioned why the process was allegedly being coordinated by Jubilee MCAs and MPs, and why it was not gazetted and published in the dailies, as has been the case. &ldquo;The exercise is proof that attempts are afoot to rig the Nairobi county elections in a favour of a pre-determined candidate,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;If this was really an NYS recruitment exercise as they claim, why was Nairobi county not informed. How come the youth in specific areas were not informed?&rdquo; &nbsp;In an address to journalists at City Hall, Kidero demanded to know why the movement of the kits was not published and who the supervisor was. "How come some of the people being registered do not meet age or physique requirements?" he asked.Kidero further asked why exercise was conducted at night and was not open to everyone but people&nbsp;&ldquo;from one ethnic group".He demanded the recall of the&nbsp;200 BVR kits the commission says it gave NYS for the exercise. He also said&nbsp;the details of all people registered using the equipment should deleted from the voter register.&nbsp;&nbsp;&ldquo;We demand IEBC publishes names of people who have been registered using these kits,&rdquo; he said.IEBC boss Ezra Chiloba said the NYS process has been ongoing and is not related to the mass voter registration that ends on Tuesday. "What happened yesterday, and has been happening as far as NYS is concerned, has nothing to do with voter listing," said Chiloba. He added that the youth service had been asked to halt the process until after the conclusion of voter registration. Read:&nbsp; IEBC launches mass voter registration phase 2, targets six million&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;