The term sycophant has its origins in the ancient Greek legal system when litigation was left to private prosecutors. It was then observed that rogue individuals hijacked the process to register obscene charges against anyone who crossed their path. The name has since taken a modern meaning with the Merriam-Webster dictionary defining a sycophant as a &lsquo;self-seeking flatterer.' In simple terms, this is an individual who heaps praises, imagined or real, to their master in a bid to capture undeserved attention. Even when their principals are stark wrong, these personalities will turn a blind eye and use their energy, primitively, to assure the master that all is well.Any political set-up thrives due to sustained loyalty from the leaders and followers, alike. Indeed, even the most mature of democracies such as the US cannot attain political progress without the unwavering support of their party members. Perhaps, it should first be clear that there is a massive difference between loyalty and sycophancy. The former has all to do with creating a positive support system and standing together regarding achievements and occurrence of disasters. Sycophancy, on the other hand, captures a primitive support system that can overlook all the potential gains at the altar of personal expediency.This is exactly the challenge with the Kenyan scene. Currently, you do not require magical powers to detect that we are living in very hard times. The employment absorption rate inspires dejection. While at that, firms are outdoing each other in laying off members of staff. Profit warnings are reaching the newsrooms faster than breaking news. Millions in drought-ravaged areas do not know where the next wild fruit will come from. Corruption is still a full-time occupation. Nothing is progressing at the right pace.It is indeed our responsibility, as citizens, to stand with the government in these desperate times. Even so, this might be done with a clear objective of having the same state change tactics and implement sound policies. In the light of all these, some characters have taken upon themselves to direct blind praise to the powers that be more so doing it in the most arrogant of all available tactics. Should you find yourself in a social setting bearing members within the ruling party support group, you may end up going mute to avoid attracting a verbal wrath that is capable of activating a 9.6 Ritcher scale earthquake. Pray, why should an adult of sound mind support corruption vices that are taking away the money which could be used to stock their local dispensary. The most nauseating fact is that most of these self-appointed &lsquo;loyal&rsquo; soldiers are outside the &lsquo;eating table&rsquo; circumference and face the very challenges affecting ordinary mwananchi. Gladly, the country is experiencing a consciousness revolution making it possible to imagine real political changes within the next few decades. Many have realised that standing for insensitive leaders is a just another futile exercise that will only foster a pampered mentality in these leaders encouraging them to proceed with their devious ways. Thus, anyone who seeks to, constructively, criticize the government must actively avoid the destructive path followed by the self-seeking flatterers. Isolation of sycophants needs to take a blunt route seeing that this might be the only way to bring them back to their senses. For example, if in a group of blind &lsquo;loyalists&rsquo; and ethnic subscribers, either take a physical exit or keep mum during the entire debate. On social media, unfriending and unfollowing them will gradually eliminate their audience options. We just cannot afford to have one side of the population vehemently endorsing a forsaken system of governance.