Scientifically, each one of the over seven billion people on earth is distinct. You were designed to remain unique or new to everyone throughout your life and none like you would show up afterwards; you occur once. In other words, you are nature&rsquo;s innovation.In dictionaries, innovation is described as new ideas or methods. It denotes evolution or constant change, which perfectly fits your story. Truth is: we evolve by design. Throughout life, each person changes from one form to the next. Innovation is not a far concept, it&rsquo;s in our DNA.If so, why does innovation feel strange? Why does the new create discomfort? Why are we often misaligned with our design?Uniqueness is one thing while the exploration and expression of it is yet another. Sadly, in this case, design doesn&rsquo;t necessarily mean function. Your uniqueness is a fact, but your function is based on practice. One reason innovation feels foreign is because, often, our uniqueness is inactive in our narrative. It&rsquo;s seen as common; hence we don&rsquo;t exercise what we&rsquo;ve been designed to do.Innovation is simply the expression of your uniqueness. According to some sources, it is synonymous to uniqueness. Other words include: originality, newness, change. On a basic level, your existence positions you to become an innovator. You don&rsquo;t need a tech degree or I.T qualification. Your originality is all it takes to display innovative genius. You have it. Will you use it?Uniqueness gives you the advantage of a distinct world view. Your thoughts and ideas become a cocktail of your background, experiences, culture, exposure, wiring, that isn&rsquo;t quite the same with anyone else. Your perception of the world, your angle, vantage point, touch, is where innovation starts. It makes it easy for you to see what others don&rsquo;t see, and therefore, access opportunities they do not appreciate.My argument is simple: innovation occurs when you unlock your uniqueness. How? Be yourself. Be true to yourself. I know it&rsquo;s easier said than done. That&rsquo;s why few people do it. Courage and skilful fight are required.Anyone who has tried will tell you that being yourself can be one of the toughest, most rewarding things you will ever do. Generally, it comes at a price. It&rsquo;s one reason successful innovators are celebrated because they&rsquo;ve mustered the courage to do what others are afraid to do. Innovators find ways to explore and express their uniqueness; they seek ways to be themselves. You can too. Use what you have. Be yourself.