Opposition leader Raila Odinga has backed the re-election of Meru Governor Peter Munya in the August 8 poll.During his visit in Meru, Raila asked residents to support Munya because he "truly believes in devolution".He expressed sympathy for the Governor and accused Jubilee of frustrating his efforts to push for devolution."Munya is a friend ... we have a lot in common as far as devolution is concerned and he has been frustrated in his efforts. In this regard, we will work closely with Munya if we get to head the national government," the Cord chief said on Monday."We will release sufficient funds - at least 45 per cent of the total revenue - to county governments to cater to their functions."Read: Mt Kenya youth tell Munya to join Raila if he cannot back Jubilee PartyThe ODM leader said he was astonished to hear Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi express regret over the Jubilee merger."They were laughing at other coalitions like Cord for being unable to merge constituent parties...and they said they had fulfilled their mission. I was surprised to see the same Kiraitu regretting having dissolved his APK to join Jubilee, saying it was a mistake," he said.Raila shunned party hopping for creating a "prostitute mentality" and said Kenyans should join and stick to parties that share ideologies and principles."Transition from a single to multi-party system of government must come of age. My appeal to the conscience of our people is to join parties with specific ideologies that you share, and stick there," he said."You must think twice and read the manifesto and constitution. You don't just go with ODM to use it as a vehicle to run for a certain seat. Come because you share values and principles with this party."He added that unlike Jubilee, Nasa was more strategic and democratic.Read: Nasa to hold first rally in Ruto's backyard, lists seven pillars to 'Okoa Kenya'Also read: After raiding Ruto's backyard, Nasa takes rallies to Mt KenyaOpposition leader Raila Odinga with Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka at a rally at Laare stadium in Igembe North Constituency, Meru county, during a tour by the National Super Alliance, February 27, 2017. /DENNIS KAVISUNo Jubilee or Nasa strongholdsThe ODM leader also dismissed political zoning saying there are no Jubilee or Nasa strongholds.Raila and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka arrived in Meru town to a hostile reception on Monday.Youths barricaded the Meru town stage with boulders, blocking the Nasa leaders from accessing the venue to address a rally.More on this: Youths block Raila, Kalonzo from entering Meru stageBut Raila said: "There is no Kenya of [President] Uhuru Kenyatta or [Nasa leaders] Raila Odinga or Kalonzo Musyoka or Musalia Mudavadi or Moses Wetang'ula. There is only one Kenya, the Republic of Kenya.""In times like these, some politicians try to divide us along ethnic and geographical lines," he added.Raila also asked politicians to avoid making uncouth statements, including remarks that "someone is not circumcised", which he noted undermine one's fitness to lead.&ldquo;We are here to urge total rejection of politics of that kind. We are here to appeal for politics that clearly identifies our problems and prescribes realistic cures for those problems, with the caveat that whenever the prescriptions fail, those responsible for them are voted out regardless of tribe, religion, race or region of origin," he said.Raila, who later visited Tharaka Nithi county, said as the country prepares for the general election, Kenyans should understand that the problems they are facing are universal and that none which are attributed to a certain tribe or part of the country."The cost of living is high for all Kenyans. Insecurity is unprecedented for all Kenyans. Corruption is hurting all Kenyans. "The Kikuyu or Meru or Embu or Kalenjin are not paying lower prices for unga, bus fare and house rent because they voted Jubilee. They are not getting better security because they voted for Jubilee. They are not paying lower school fees," he said."All Kenyans are suffering the same fate. The people being killed in Kerio Valley largely voted for Jubilee. The people struggling to find markets for miraa here in Meru voted for Jubilee."When a regime fails, everyone pays the price except for very few elite with connections and relatives in government. We have come here to tell you that these are the realities we face as a nation and to assure you that Nasa has the cure to these problems."