A group of protesters took to the streets on Friday in a demand for "accessible, affordable and&nbsp;accountable" healthcare in Kenya.They marched from Freedom corner to Afya H ouse, singing, dancing and waving banners, and asked to see CS Cleopa Mailu. Mailu&nbsp;listened to the people's concerns as stated in a petition read by a woman identified as&nbsp;Naomi Wanjiku.The petition dubbed 'Wanjiku's letter' stated that the Health ministry must resolve the&nbsp;stalemate&nbsp;that has led to the deaths of many patients.Deaths have been reported at several hospitals across the country since the strike began on&nbsp;December 5, 2016."What happens to patients who urgently need blood? People are dying,"&nbsp;Wanjiku said, facing Mailu. She asked the government to&nbsp;provide proper services and ensure Kenyans have access to them.Mailu received the petition but asked doctors to stop lying to Kenyans about the lack of equipment at hospitals. " We are rehabilitating hospitals... equipment has been bought at Sh13 billion. You cannot say there are no facilities," he said. "...do not be cheated...a strike is not equal to lack of facilities. I t is wrong to say you will not provide services because of equipment." The CS added that it was wrong to use others' lives to negotiate better terms of service." A dispute between an employer and employee should not infringe on the rights of others. I &nbsp;want Kenyans sober up to this fact," he said. Mailu said he hoped the negotiating team will soon find a solution to the strike over a CBA signed in 2013."It is my hope that the strike will come to an end. It is&nbsp;regrettable&nbsp;that doctors have refused to give attention to patients," he said.Treasury CS Henry Rotich claimed on Thursday that KMPDU officials, led by secretary general Ouma Oluga, have been stalling negotiations to end their strike following instructions from "certain quarters".Rotich told the joint parliamentary Health and Labour committee that the officials were ready to accept an offer but hesitated after consulting individuals, whom he did not identify.More on this: Doctors' union officials receiving orders from 'certain quarters' says CS RotichThe Appeals court on Wednesday granted doctors' union officials another seven days to finalise talks to end their strike that entered its 82nd day today.&nbsp; KMPDU lawyers led by Siaya senator James Orengo requested the court to grant them the time, saying they were about to reach a solution.Read: Appeals court gives doctors seven more days for strike talksDoctors&nbsp; suffered a setback&nbsp;after it emerged that the disputed CBA they want implemented was only a "template document". Former Health PS Mark Bor, who appended his signature on it on behalf of the ministry, told a joint parliamentary committee that the document was not for registration.The joint committee also realised that Bor signed the document unlawfully on June 27, 2013.The 5,000-member doctors' union wants the government to implement the deal they agreed on in 2013 to raise their basic salaries by 300 per cent. Doctors are also calling for a review of working conditions, job structures, criteria of promotions and to address under-staffing in state hospitals.Read:&nbsp;Oluga explains 'unfortunate' 65-day doctors' strike to SenateAlso read:&nbsp;Inside the striking doctors&rsquo; 2013 collective bargaining agreement WANJIKU'S LETTER