Unbeaten Kenya Commercial Bank face in form Homeboyz in a mouthwatering Kenya Cup clash at the Lions&rsquo; den in Ruaraka today at 4pm.Both sides have been in good form since the beginning of the year and today&rsquo;s showdown is expected to be a contrast of styles between the two teams.The bankers led the standings on 50 points with Homeboyz fourth on 37. KCB coach Curtis Olago has made four changes for the match after mauling Strathmore Leos 50-15 at the same venue.Peter Kaaria replaces George Asin as hooker with Nick Ongeri coming at lock for Ian Indimuli. Kenya Sevens skipper, Andrew Amonde is drafted in place of Rocky Aguko at number 8 with Marlin Mukolwe coming in for Michael Wanjala at scrumhalf. Olago has gone for physicality and expects a tough match against the deejays.&ldquo;This is big test for our title credentials. Homeboyz have improved especially in the set pieces and we must bring the intensity and the physicality to them in this match,&rdquo; added Olago.On their part, Homeboyz head, coach Paul Murunga, has urged his side to build on last year&rsquo;s maiden victory against the bankers. &ldquo;I think the boys have the mental strength to beat KCB. We need to take our chances and match them in the forwards,&rdquo; he added. Murunga will be without centre Jeff Olouch, who sustained a knock against Mean Machine last week, with Oluoch absent. Nelson Sangura moves from fullback to centre, where he will pair Max Kangeri while experienced former Strathmore Leos man Tony Onyango returns at fullback.Upfront, Murunga will rely on his battle hardened forwards led by skipper Emmanuel Mavala, Philip Ikambili, Bramwell Mayaka and Steve Otieno. Murunga has the luxury of Kenya Sevens stars Bush Mwale, Augustine Lugonzo, Oscar Ayodi, and Leonard Mugaisi. Second-placed Quins face a tricky tie against a resurgent Nakuru outfit at the RFUEA ground. Quins were stunned 15-7 by Mwamba last weekend and will be looking to bounce back against the former champions.Fifth-placed Impala have tricky date against Mwamba at their backyard and with both clubs chasing playoff positions, it promises to be fascinating duel. Third-placed Kabras host Strathmore Leos at the Kakamega show ground as Western Bulls entertain Nondies at the &lsquo;Bull Ring&rsquo; in Kakamega with Mean Machine hosting Blak Blad at the University of Nairobi ground.