All that glitters is not gold. This is often the case with any evil across our society today. It may seem extremely beautiful on the surface, but once we dive under this pretentious blanket, we discover the skeletons in hiding. A case study: Malaysia. Beautiful outside, but grave sins committed inside.We experience some great deals in Malaysia, be it the artefacts, clothing, adventure sports and so on. Malaysia also offers some remarkable deals on babies. With crime syndicates across the country, baby trade is the new form of easy adoption in this part of the world.The rate for a baby is Sh500,000. They are dealt with like usual commodities. Choosing a baby is as simple as brushing through a catalogue of clothes online. You scroll, you choose, you buy. Baby selling complements the prostitution industry in Malaysia and other parts of Asia.This setup is effective due to the thousands of unwanted pregnancies undergone by sex workers and teenagers. One dealer shelters at least 78 pregnant women ready to sell their babies. Their clientele includes local and foreign personnel. All their paperwork is sorted out by a few green pieces of paper delivered to the authorities.Corporate hospitals, family organisations and doctors play a huge part in this crime syndicate. One family has been running a private clinic for over three decades. They boast of at least 30 deliveries a week, as though they run a factory, with the authorities in their pocket. We wonder, the supply is so high, is there an equating demand? The answer is yes. And sometimes the demand exceeds the supply, as put across by a news piece broadcasted by Al Jazeera. However, when these babies aren&rsquo;t sold, crime organisations buy these lives, and resort the child&rsquo;s fate to begging and trafficking. By the certain virtue of ignorance on our side, we are thrashing our future generations into utter darkness. We know about this, but we wear blinkers and live on. The governance and morality need to be questioned.