Kenyans living in Northeastern now hear of words such as negotiated democracy, council of elders and sultans. But the so-called negotiated democracy they practice has negative implications for the economy. The county governments are not given full mandate to serve the people. Anytime they have to initiate a project, they have to consult their overlords. This hinders development and services.The so-called councils of elders or sultans sit in procurement committees. This means there is no level playing field for bidders since the sultans have lists of the companies to be awarded tenders. The winning bidders, it almost goes without saying, give kickbacks.When tenders are awarded, county executives cannot question the quality of work done. Should they raise any queries the contractor tells the sultans, who directly or indirectly intimidate the administration. Sometimes the sultans incite the residents against county administrations. Most of the sultans drive luxury cars and operate big offices in the capital. Whenever they are squeezed for cash they twist the county administrations&rsquo; arm by rabble-rousing the residents.Just like other Kenyans, the people of Northeastern had hoped to enjoy the fruits of devolution by giving leadership to their own sons and daughters for better services. But negotiated democracy has killed trade, business integration, open markets, entrepreneurship and intensified clannism. A report by the International Crisis Group indicates radicalisation of youth thrives in areas where the rate of poverty is significantly higher. When resources are controlled by a few individuals who decide who gets employed, qualified youth are left out and the probability of their indulging in illegal activities increases significantly. A recent study showed that most criminal youths are marginalised by their communities. Negotiated democracy marginalise the youth, pushing them into crime.Negotiated democracy, which is specific to certain regions, groups, clans or communities, may lead to a clamour for autonomy or an autonomous region or several sub-autonomous regions, a threat to national governance. Such was the case in Somalia during the toppling of Siad Barre&rsquo;s government. The charters these sultans make reference to, regardless of the clan and the county they govern, contravene the Constitution in a number of ways.The first, and most fundamental, is that they lack inclusivity and do not respect the two-third gender rule. The councils of elders are male-dominated and women are left out of decision-making. During party nominations, the sultans present a list of names to a political party, which then gives the candidates direct tickets. This contravenes the Constitution, which stipulates that every citizen has the right to free, fair and regular elections based on universal suffrage and the free expression of the will of the electors.No one should stop a person from seeking political office so long as that person is qualified. The fathers of negotiated democracy infringe on this right by intimidating aspirants. On Election Day voters queue long hours to elect their preferred candidates. It is, therefore, disrespectful when a few individuals come together and send home elected leaders without consulting the mother or the youth who elected them. It is also a breach of the Constitution, which vests all sovereign power in the people of Kenya. Further, negotiated democracy bars upcoming leaders, especially the youth. The sultans have instilled a psychological fear of losing for anyone who goes against their decision. When a few people decide for the whole population whom to elect and whom to unseat, it not only contravenes the Constitution but also international law.This system, if left to thrive, may destroy nationalism and divide the nation. Its effects in the long run on socioeconomic, political and governance structures, as well as national security, must not be understimated. Kenyans, especially those in Northeastern, must embrace constitutionalism and say no to sultans and their kangaroo system of justice.