Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa has alleged of a conspiracy by unnamed officials of Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to have the 2009 league champions demoted from the SportPesa Premier League, ostensibly for failing to fulfill the club licensing requirements.Citing the dismissal of the club&rsquo;s audited accounts, the Sofapaka boss believes there is a private vendetta against him and his team, noting that the federation went ahead lock them out of the top tier despite having met all their requirements. &ldquo;If it&rsquo;s a bank statement to prove that I can comfortably run the club in 2017, I have already submitted one which clearly indicates that I have Sh186 million in my account, yet the team&rsquo;s budget for the entire season that I submitted is Sh80 million,&rdquo; Kalekwa said.He added: &ldquo;I started this team in 2003 without any sponsor and there is no time I have failed to run it professionally. In fact, I&rsquo;m the one who introduced players contracts and signing fees in the top tier when I was the chairman of the league in 2010 and I can&rsquo;t stand to see a players sweat on the pitch without pay. Salaries may delay and that is normal even in the civil service, but it doesn&rsquo;t mean that someone would go without his pay.&rdquo;Kalekwa, who was out of the country for most part of last year, on international business ventures, claims that it was by grace of God that they survived the axe and vowed to use all means possible to bar anyone intending to relegate them by uncouth means.&ldquo;We had like 10 percent chances of surviving the league last season and we did it miraculously. I&rsquo;m not a politician planning to gain mileage from Sofapaka like other football leaders, but we have to get what is rightfully ours,&rdquo; said the DR Congo-born businessman. He added: &ldquo;I have spent a fortune on this team, amounting to billions of shillings and it is now touching the lives of many locals. No one would kill this special achievement for selfish reasons.&rdquo;He said despite the fact that he was suspiciously given the mandatory requirements in short notice, he moved with speed to ensure &lsquo;Batoto Ba Mungu&rsquo; met all the criteria in good time and was shocked by the federation&rsquo;s efforts to still lock them out of the main league. &ldquo;I have met all the requirements. I have even paid the required Sh5million required for the first month of league action to ensure all the players earn their salaries promptly. I have also produced the team&rsquo;s audited accounts. I have a licensed auditor who has records of the team&rsquo;s audited accounts since we joined the league in 2009, so it&rsquo;s very unfortunate for someone to say that our audited accounts are suspect,&rdquo; Kalekwa said.