Last week, I attended a working dinner hosted by Control Risks who were hosting such events all over the World after releasing their RiskMap 2017. As Charles Hecker outlined the top five risks (No.1 was President Trump and his snake-oil of Populism and Anti-Globalisation), I could not help feeling that Geopolitics was now front and centre and that economics could no longer be seen in isolation. Essentially, the (Geo)politics is set to whipsaw economies further and you do not have to look far to spot those economies that were sitting at the ''bleeding edge'' of this New Normal. Mexico and its Peso is the perfect example of an economy that has to wrestle with this new Normal. Charles Hecker said governments ''are like oil tankers, they are not speedboats'' Stasis Kalyvas said this on Twitter ''Lessons I learned from Greece #1: abysmal incompetence of populist government leads many to mistaken belief it will be over quickly'' This is another important point where votes (populism) have set a path and as we journey on this path we are set to lose sight of optimal policy making.Control Risks cited Trump as its No.1 Risk and watching what was a bizarre news conference last week, I am sure few would disagree."I turn on TV, open the newspapers and I see stories of chaos &ndash; chaos &ndash; yet it is the exact opposite. This administration is running like a fine-tuned machine.""The leaks are absolutely real. The news is fake because so much of the news is fake.""I'm not ranting and raving. I'm just telling you you're dishonest people."The London review of books said ''He sees the presidency primarily as a way to expand the Trump brand (and make a little money on the side) and he is in way over his head.''''An iconic moment of the first weeks was Trump&rsquo;s dinner for the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, not at the White House, as is customary, but at his Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago (where the annual membership fee has just doubled to $200,000). Interrupted by news of a North Korean missile launch, Trump chose to display his presidential power to the wowed and tweeting club regulars by holding an emergency security meeting at the restaurant table. Aides used their cell phones as flashlights to read classified documents while waiters served entrees over the papers. One member even posted a selfie (&lsquo;Wow!&rsquo;) with, he wrote, &lsquo;Rick&rsquo;, the guy who follows the president with the &lsquo;football&rsquo; &ndash; the briefcase carrying the nuclear codes. Luckily, the missile landed harmlessly in the ocean before dessert. It would have been unfortunate to lose Alaska with the baked Alaska.'' (London Review of Books).However, late in the week AP reported that the Trump administration was considering mobilising as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorised immigrants. And there you have another ''bleeding Edge'' Such a move (and remember Trump never backs down, he is an escalator) would reverberate all over the World given how much the World is dependent on remittances sent from the US. Then we learnt of the extraordinary story of an Indonesian woman arrested on suspicion of the murder of North Korea dictator Kim Jong-Un&rsquo;s half-brother, Kim Jong-nam, in Malaysia who was told she was talking part in a comedy TV show prank, Indonesia&rsquo;s police chief has claimed. Tito Karnavian said Siti Aisyah, 25, was paid to take part in a series of pranks that involved convincing men to close their eyes and then spraying them with water. She was reportedly told this was part of filming for a comedy TV show called &ldquo;Just for Laughs&rdquo;."Such an action was done three or four times and they were given a few dollars for it, and with the last target, Kim Jong Nam, allegedly there were dangerous materials in the sprayer," Mr Karnavian said.I also watched President Zuma's annual address to parliament which notwithstanding its off-the-charts militarisation with heavy duty security around parliament, including hundreds of armed soldiers, descended into chaos. Julius Malema, the EFF leader, called Mr Zuma &ldquo;an incorrigible man, rotten to the core&rdquo;, before his eviction. The Rand has been on a tear in 2017 and has rallied about +5.5% as investors factored in a tapering of the Zuma ''carte blanche'' Now the question is will President Zuma go quietly or are things about to get messy with rumours swirling that he is going to try and prise Pravin Gordhan out of his seat at the Treasury. The South African Rand needs close watching and again we see this political and economic intersection in play. Charles of Control Risks made the point that ''China will weaponise it's regulatory framework to disadvantage international firms'' and you have to admit that so far only President Xi has managed to effect a take-down of president Trump (One China refers).The week however ended on a high with the Inauguration of President Adama Barrow in the Gambia. Over there in West Africa, we have seen a big democratic surge and it just might infect the rest of the continent.