Cracks have emerged and infighting has broken out among the NASA leadership, threatening to undermine unity of the new alliance.Big differences played out during Kwale Senator Juma Boy&rsquo;s burial in Vanga on Monday.This was after Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama announced he had spoken to the senator in hospital on the day before he died.He said Boy&rsquo;s dying wish was that he ensures ODM leader Raila Odinga becomes NASA&rsquo;s presidential flagbearer.Muthama said Boy repeated the statement more than eight times, in the presence of his family. &ldquo;Boy told me to ensure that Baba (Raila) wins in the August election. I asked him why ... but he said that Baba is a very clever person and no other politician can match him (Ni mtu mjanja sana. Hakuna mtu anamuweza),&rdquo; he said.Muthama said he has witnesses to the conversation. &ldquo;As we were talking, in his hospital bed, Boy told me &lsquo;everyone wants to buy me, but they don&rsquo;t know my price&rsquo;.&rdquo;The Machakos Senator said Boy died knowing Kwale and Kenyan people need change and should vote overwhelmingly to remove Jubilee.This funeral statement angered Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who also wants to be the NASA flagbearer.There are reports that Boy had been unconscious for a few days before he died and was not able to communicate.Kalonzo later met Wiper politicians in Mombasa and complained about Muthama&rsquo;s comments.Insiders said Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar gave Muthama a tongue-lashing for his comments.Raila, Kalonzo, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi each hope to be the joint NASA candidate.Meantime, Chirau Mwakwere, who recently ditched Jubilee for NASA, was under pressure from Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, to declare he has joined ODM. But Mwakwere, the Kenyan High Commissioner to Tanzania, said he is in NASA.Insiders say, however, Mwakwere is leaning towards Wiper, as he hopes for its ticket to run for Kwale governor.As a sign of endorsement, Mwakwere was asked to speak at Boy&rsquo;s funeral on behalf of other governor aspirants. This despite his being a recent entrant.Raila and deputy party leader Joho plan to receive Mwakwere on Sunday when he resigns as envoy.He is seen as the only candidate who can threaten Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya in August. &ldquo;I left a good job because working for Kwale people surpasses that job. I had to resign,&rdquo; Mwakwere said before his speech was cut short by Joho.Joho said, &ldquo;Tell him to declare his party. ODM show by hands.&rdquo;Mwakwere said he had discussed the issue with Boy and had started campaigning for him before he died.He told the public he is on the NASA side, without saying which party. Joho has told ODM leaders to focus on removing Mvurya and stop petty wrangles that can benefit Jubilee.Muthama said, &ldquo;I sent you Boy to talk to God and tell Him as Kenyans we have decided women give birth to men like you and they are still giving birth. Tell Him to help us not to see first, second and third as we wait for the fourth Kenyatta to lead us.&rdquo;He said God should help Kenyans have another son from another woman to lead the country so its citizens can feel they are in a united nation.