Governors of large counties are grappling with reelection campaign funding problems because it&rsquo;s costly to criss-cross huge distances.The counties include Marsabit, Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Isiolo and Garissa. Speaking to the Star, Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani on Thursday said they will need more cash if they have to reach all remote areas. He said they also expect massive expenditure by hopefuls attracted by the post that controls billions of shillings.Some governors have invested heavily in social media to complement their meet-the-people tours. They mainly target the youth.Mandera county communications officer Habiba Cali on Thursday said they are using social media to reach as many residents as possible within a short time.Political analyst Wesley Simba yesterday said social media will have a major impact.&ldquo;When you manage to win the hearts of the youth, you have won the entire community, as its lifeline depends on young people,&rdquo; he said.Marsabit covers 70,691 square kilometres and has a population of slightly more than 400,000. It has 500 polling stations. Yatani said drought has forced residents to move in search of water and pasture, scattering the population across huge areas. Some places are abandoned by residents migrating with their livestock.&ldquo;Going round a county such as Marsabit to campaign twice during nomination and the general election needs a fortune,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Remember in 2013, most people were not really fascinated with the governor post.&rdquo; The situation is similar Turkana, the second-largest county covering 8,680sqkm. It has 560 polling stations across its six subcounties. Governor Josephat Nanok said on Thursday they will have to deploy huge resources in the nominations, including observers at each polling station.&ldquo;There is a challenge. During the nominations, we&rsquo;ll have to send observers to all polling stations. Turkana is almost 10 times the size of some counties. We have to use cars and this will be quite costly,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;People have exaggerated our [financial] potential. Many people think governors have billions of shillings. We face many challenges. &ldquo;On the ground, people expect a little token from you. They&rsquo;ve high expectations.&rdquo;