The pre- election campaign season is upon us and political leaders have retreated to their ethnic cocoons to mobilize potential voters to register. The rhetoric, sabre-rattling, accusations and counter-accusations coming out of the campaign are to say the least disturbing. Allegations attributed to former TNA Secretary General Onyango Oloo that the 2013 Presidential Election was rigged are serious and it&rsquo;s surprising that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has not summoned him to record a statement. Oloo by virtue of his former position is an opinion leader in Kenya and should substantiate his claims if he is not a frivolous political inter-meddler attempting to gain mileage. In the words of Pastor David Oginde&rdquo; Kenya is currently a politically dry grassland. Any little spark could start an uncontrollable fire that could consume all of us beyond the fires of 2007/8&rdquo;.ODM/Cord leader Raila Odinga has consistently alleged that Jubilee is planning to rig the 2017 election. He further states that that the Opposition will not take &ldquo;another rigged election lying down.&rdquo; These are dangerous inflammatory statements that require investigation. They only serve to raise already tense political temperatures. The country bent over backwards to accommodate the Oppositions request for new IEBC Commissioners&rsquo; an action that has stretched our electoral calendar to the limit. A single slip could lead to postponement of the election. Could there be a party or parties angling for this eventuality? It is becoming increasingly clear that ODM/Cord will only accept one outcome in this election and that is victory. Justice Kriegler had advised Kenyans not to go into an election without having an independent electoral body in place two (2) years prior to the election. We have opted to test fate and play Russian roulette by going to the election with a 7month old IEBC.A recent feature in a Sunday Newspaper has revealed what is referred to as a CIA intelligence Report on the secrets of Kenyatta&rsquo;s family wealth. Though couched as a foreign report its publication in the run-up to an election is mischievous. One doesn&rsquo;t have to be a rocket scientist to figure that it is intended to harm the election prospects of Uhuru Kenyatta by linking his family to corruption through land-grabbing, wildlife poaching and deforestation (charcoal trade). This is the second time in a very short period of time that an attempt has been made to link the family to corruption and should not be treated as an accident but more of a design. It&rsquo;s a deliberate attempt to smear the family image. It is however diabolical to visit a son with the sins of his father and or mother by convolution of facts and distortion. It was as unjust as it was unfair. Uhuru Kenyatta was a 17 year old school boy when his father died in 1978. He was therefore not proxy or privy to his parental acquisitions. The authors gingerly omitted mentioning the acquisitions&rsquo; of other political families in the 1960-70s including the Odinga&rsquo;s that are intricately intertwined. The only difference is one family chose to acquire expansive land holdings in the sugar-belt and the other closer to Nairobi and as in the parable of the talents one has multiplied its wealth tenfold.If the game plan was to cause disaffection against the Kenyatta family then its peddlers should be reminded that it has been tried before and failed in 2013. It was a subject in the Presidential debate prior to the election. The narrative then was that the family owned land larger than Western Province! In the famous words of Albert Einstein applying the same methods over and over again and expecting a different result is the definition of insanity. People should gather information against Jubilee without reverting to &ldquo;hitting below the belt&rdquo; tactics. Elections as always will come and go, but the great nation of Kenya will remain.DAUDI MWENDA.