&lsquo;If the mountain won&rsquo;t come to Muhammad&rsquo;, quipped Sir Francis Bacon, &lsquo;then Muhammad must go to the mountain.&rsquo; Drawing from a Turkish proverb, the famed English philosopher and essayist said that if what you want won&rsquo;t come to you, then you have to go to where it is. For NASA, trooping to Bomet is doing just that. If the Kalenjin vote isn&rsquo;t forthcoming, then they must go to where it is. With reports that the Rift Valley is poised to be the largest voter bloc in Kenya, NASA wants a piece of the pie and they are beginning their quest for it in Bomet. At the invitation of embattled Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, the NASA brigade is now making it clear that they are targeting Jubilee&rsquo;s vote base, particularly with another senior Kalenjin politician, Kipruto Kirwa, firmly in their corner. At Bomet, they should get a sympathetic ear.Governor Rutto is however fighting a resurgent Jubilee wave in his Bomet redoubt and his bitter rival Joyce Laboso is giving him sleepless nights. His CCM outfit is not doing very well and has been largely ignored, even by Jubilee&rsquo;s worst critics. It is likely only to serve a spoiler effect in the County Assembly of Bomet and possibly in nearby Kericho and not much else. Trying to portray Laboso as an &lsquo;alien&rsquo; because she is married to one Obonyo, has not gained much traction and so hosting NASA is one of his plans to excite his base. It remains to be seen if it will give him the much-needed boost. However, for the average Kalenjin voter, the reasoning is that since the door of power is within sight in Jubilee, why then would they support an outfit that will push them into the back seat? Rutto has countered this argument by stating that Kikuyu support in 2022 is not guaranteed and it would be better for them to find space in another grouping than to suffer the humiliation of &lsquo;I told you so&hellip;&rsquo; He is also accusing them of &lsquo;holding the horns while another milks the cow&hellip;&rsquo;To many, it is not clear why the Deputy President continues to entertain his antagonistic stance with Governor Rutto. He is possibly hedging his bets, having met most of the demands of the South Rift voters. However, emerging issues such as the Itare Dam, particularly after a prolonged drought, may not augur well for Jubilee.