The signing of the NASA pact has put Wiper and ODM in an awkward position in the race for Mombasa governor.Before last week&rsquo;s pact, the two parties were going to face off against each other, with Wiper fielding Senator Hassan Omar, and ODM backing incumbent Hassan Joho.The NASA deal has listed Mombasa and Nairobi as counties where seats will be shared through consensus. Co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Raila Odinga (ODM), Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) will meet this week to discuss how seats will be shared.Wiper is said to want to go it alone in the Mombasa race, but it is tied by the agreement.Last weekend, Wiper was to announce whether Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and Omar would team up or face off in the primaries. A panel was to negotiate a deal and Kalonzo was to arbitrate in case of a disagreement. But with the NASA deal, no meeting is likely to happen.The party has been forced back to the drawing board. Analyst Prof Josphat Mwatella said the co-principals are likely to explore a Joho-Awiti combination, where one runs for governor and the other becomes the running mate.Alternatively, Omar could be asked to retain his seat. Omar is said to be flexible, and could consider the offer.&ldquo;Mombasa being a cosmopolitan town, they will not think of pairing Omar with Joho. So the only option is Awiti if he agrees to it,&rdquo; Mwatella said. He added, &ldquo;The pair must have a national outlook.&rdquo;The deputy governor position will remain vacant when incumbent Hazel Katana completes her term and runs for senator on the Jubilee Party ticket.NASA&rsquo;s focus is to avoid breaking the accord and at the same time ensure Jubilee does not win.Mombasa has been considered an opposition stronghold.Mwatella said Awiti will unlikely be asked to retain his MP seat because of the &ldquo;spirited and multimillion-shilling campaigns he has maintained for two years&rdquo;.&ldquo;This puts him in an interesting position as he just must be on the ballot either as the county chief or deputy governor,&rdquo; he said.But at the weekend, Awiti said he will not deputise anyone. He said his running mate will be from the Mijikenda community. Awiti said he will run for one term then pave the way for another community to rule.&ldquo;ODM and Wiper must go it alone. Kalonzo and Raila should be discouraged from dictating who should lead. Joho has failed and no one can deputise a failure. He must go home,&rdquo; he said.But anything is possible in politics. There are no permanent enemies, only common interests. Analysts say it would be no surprise if rivals Joho and Awiti team up.An insider said Joho, Awiti and Omar will be asked to agree on the line-up.&ldquo;The co-principals will be on their case if they fail to agree. A price must be paid for NASA unity to remain alive. This includes giving up seats,&rdquo; he said.Wiper leaders and supporters are said to be adamant about the party taking the top seat, with officials saying it is the most popular in Mombasa and they deserve the best. There are fears Joho will be favoured to retain the top seat.Wiper lobbyists have said the formula used to choose the governor should be acceptable to all parties.&ldquo;What we can confidently confirm is Wiper will be on the ballot. Negotiations should be based on strengths,&rdquo; a supporter who sought anonymity said.The tussle for power could favour Jubilee, which has settled on businessman Suleiman Shahbal as the governor candidate and Ananiah Mwaboza as his running mate.