A suspect in the murder of Kiru Boys Secondary School principal has pleaded guilty under oath to the lesser offence of manslaughter. Joseph Njuguna, alias Karis, faces life imprisonment.He was before High Court judge Joel Ngugi in Kiambu.Kariuki is charged with the murder of Solomon Mwangi between November 6 and November 11 last year. In December, Justice Ngugi ordered a full mental assessment on Kariuki. He was also given a state lawyer before he took a plea.The court heard that in June last year, Kariuki was called by a woman identified as Damaris, who he had known for a long time.He was promised a job with a good pay and was told he would be called by Njiru for the details.After a day, Njiru called Kariuki and they met in Kimbo in the presence of Damaris. Njiru informed Kariuki the job was to kill a girl who stayed at Kiriani and worked at an M-Pesa shop. The girl was allegedly having an affair with a married man.The court heard that Kariuki had been informed by Damaris that she had already taken Sh100,000 for the job and the next day they went to Kiriaini to see the place.Kariuki met Njiru at Kimbo in a White Toyota Sienta and after entering the vehicle, he found a woman whom he later found out was the headteacher of Icaciri Secondary School in Gatundu South.They waited for another passenger identified as Gikuyu, who was known to Kariuki. Njiru left with the woman and returned at 12 midday. He picked Kariuki and Gikuyu at kiriaini and showed tham a girl he said they had been asked to Kill.Kariuki and Gikuyu entered the M-Pesa shop and bought sodas. They went back to Njiru and told him it was impossible to kill the girl because the M-Pesa shop was near Equity Bank and the kiriaini police station.The court was told the woman, only identified as Mwalimu, was informed of the difficulty of the job and gave kariuki and Gikuyu Sh100,000. She said she would find another way. In October, Njiru called Kariuki informing him the job was ready.On November 4, Kariuki and Gikuyu met at Texas bar in Kiriaini and were joined by Njiru and Mwalimu. She told them she had a new plan of spiking his husband's drink. Mwalimu said once she did that, they would enter the house, strangle him and hang his body.The lady Mwalimu went to Kiru Boys high school and went to her husbands house as kariuki and Gikuyu hid at the back seat of the vehicle and the lady went inside the house with her husband where after a long while she came and informed them that she has laced water with a substance but it became somehow dirty and also lace tea with the substance but also looked suspicious saying that the substance was not working as expected.