There exists belief that cuts across times and cultures in the power of prayers with many communities believing that rains are God&rsquo;s blessings. Rains are particularly important in ceremonies and God lets people know He is pleased by sending showers of blessings in the place of ceremony, thereby drenching the participants without umbrellas or cover sheds. This implies that plenty of harvests would follow and people would not be hungry. Since unusual absence of rain is also a sign that God is not amused, the people apologize for their errors and seek His intervention. Many times, they are happy when it rains and they attribute it to God listening to their entreaties. Praying for rain is everywhere: in Asia, in the Americas, in Europe, in Africa and particularly Kenya.They pray for rain in Britain, although British imperialist and World War II Prime Minister Winston Churchill doubted the wisdom of appeals to &ldquo;celestial&rdquo; forces and was disdainful of the Duke of Rutland&rsquo;s call for prayers for rain. Churchill&rsquo;s royal boss, King George VI, however, was constantly in prayer. It had rained on his coronation day in May 1937 and three years later, in May 1940, he asked Britons to pray for desperate troops in France and what followed was the &ldquo;miracle&rdquo; of Dunkirk, accompanied by heavy rains, reportedly as God&rsquo;s answer to the prayers. And it rained in the coronation of his daughter Elizabeth, in March 1953.Americans also pray for rain. In November 2007, Governor Sonny Perdue of Georgia prayed for rain and it rained a day later and the governor considered it &ldquo;a great affirmation of what we asked for.&rdquo; When Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States, he appointed Perdue Secretary for Agriculture probably because he knew how to pray for rain. And it rained on Friday, January 20, 2017 in Washington as Trump took the oath of office. The rain made Reverend Franklin Graham, Billy Graham&rsquo;s son, to decree that it was God&rsquo;s blessings on Trump. &ldquo;Mr President, in the Bible rain is a sign of God&rsquo;s blessings, and it started to rain, Mr President, when you came to the platform&hellip;and it is my prayer that God will bless you, your family, your administration, and may he bless America.&rdquo;In his November 2015 visit to Nairobi, Pope Francis urged the youth &ldquo;to be guided by the great values of African traditions.&rdquo; Among those traditions is praying for rain which, since the days of the ancestors, occupies leaders even as they indulge in the science of weather forecasting. Some of their prayers seemingly get answered. In March 1999, after a long drought for instance, King Letsie of Lesotho asked people to pray for rain. They went to church to pray for rain and then needed umbrellas to go home after the service. Roughly 8 years later in 2007, after a long drought, Botswana President Ian Khama asked the Tswana to pray for rain in the month of September 2013. Various religious people heeded the call and since it rained in October 2013, they believed that God had answered their prayers. This enabled children to run around excitedly shouting &ldquo;pula, pula&rdquo; as they drenched themselves in the pouring rain, and they were joined by a few adults. Khama and the Tswana attributed the rain to the prayer.Similarly, Kenyans, like the Tswana, are deep believers in the connection between God and rain. It rained big on the night that Kenya attained independence in December 1963, which people took to mean that God had blessed Jomo Kenyatta to transit Kenya from colonialism to independence. At the time, Uhuru was barely two years old and Ian Khama was ten and the two have a few things in common. They are both sons of founding presidents of either Kenya or Botswana and their fathers had experienced colonial roughness before leading their countries to independence. Ian is the fourth president of Botswana, as of 2008, and Uhuru is the fourth president of Kenya, as of 2013. Ian attended Uhuru&rsquo;s inauguration in solidarity amidst Euro hostility. Both are astute politicians who engage in public prayers, especially when a special need arises and the absence of rain is serious. Thus Ian and Uhuru are united in praying for rain and seemingly getting answered.The circumstances for Uhuru&rsquo;s prayer were a combination of drought and politics, given that 2017 is an election year. Uhuru, one of the leading politicians touring different parts of the country urging reluctant people to register to vote, attracts crowds. On Friday, January 20, 2017, a few hours before Trump&rsquo;s inauguration in Washington, however, things were different as they turned spiritual. The youth in Nyeri demanded that Uhuru lead them in prayers. Ignoring his pleas that he is a politician and not a preacher, they forced the president to pray and so he obliged by praying for rain, food, and political victory. Thereafter, handlers had to fetch an umbrella for him as the rain started showering an excited crowd. The political reverberations of the &ldquo;blessed&rdquo; showers were felt beyond Nyeri for several days in several places.