Mount Kenya University (MKU) is among the top ten institutions of higher learning preferred by employers, students and parents.In the ranking carried out by Breakthrough Consulting, University of Nairobi (UoN) emerged top overall. Among private universities, United Stated International University (USIU) and Daystar were ranked above MKU.The new study commissioned by Madison Insurance Company also revealed that in the year 2015/16, MKU had the highest student population among private universities at 21,562. It thus accounted for nearly a third of the total number of students studying in private universities during this period. Overall, MKU has the seventh largest student population in a list topped by UoN. Further findings showed that MKU offers more degree programmes than any other private university. It accounted for 14 per cent of all programmes offered in private universities. The study&rsquo;s findings echo those by Corporate Staffing Services Ltd, a leading human resource consultancy in Kenya.MKU was among the most preferred private universities that employers prefer when hiring fresh graduates, with a 13 per cent popularity rating. The study by Breakthrough Consulting also shows that MKU competes favorably on fees charged, when looked against what public universities are charging under the Module II programme. The University&rsquo;s fees are affordable and are payable in flexible monthly installments, thus making university education accessible to many in the region.For example, MKU&rsquo;s fees for Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery competes favourably well with what is charged by Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) and UoN. MKU&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Dental Technology degree programme is highly affordable. So are the University&rsquo;s Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Economics and Statistics degree programmes. Other degree programmes in which MKU competes well include: BSc Biology or Microbiology and Biotechnology, Bachelor of Arts, BSc Food Science, Nutrition and Technology, B/Ed Arts, B/Ed Sciences, Journalism, Law and Information Technology.The study found that fees at MKU have either been revised downwards or kept constant in the last five years.The ISO 9001:2008 Certified University is continuously improving its service delivery in teaching, research and community outreach.