Tourists visiting Tsavo complain that they pay hefty park entry fees only to see herds of cattle and herders. Between January and February 6, 16 herdsmen from Tsavo East and 33 from Tsavo West were arrested and taken to court. So far, 1,300 livestock from Tsavo East and 13,140 from Tsavo West have been driven out, and 22 bomas found in Tsavo West National Park removed. Nocturnal grazing Illegal grazers recently flushed out of the Tsavo National Park have changed tact and are now sneaking the cows into the park at night. The Star has established that the cows spend the day along the Mombasa-Nairobi highway road reserve at Miasenyi, Mackinon and Bachuma areas before being driven into the park at night. Residents say the herders use the standard gauge railway line under-paths to sneak the cows into the park. “Cows have caused a very big problem in this area. They are a threat to motorists plying the highway. Last week, a lorry rammed into several cows, causing an accident,” a resident said. The herders use the Mzima pipeline breathers as water holes during the day. He added that the herders pose a security threat to both wildlife and residents, whose farms have been invaded by the cows. Juvenile herders “The herders are very hostile. We appeal to the government to remove them from this area. Recently we got reports that a KWS ranger was injured by poachers at the park. These herders are capable of doing anything in the name of protecting their livestock,” the source said. Kenya Wildlife Service spokesperson Paul Gathitu said the conservation authority will not allow illegal grazing at the park. “Our teams on the ground are ready to repel anyone trying to graze in the park. Our operations are still on for 24 hours to ensure the park is protected,” he told the Star on the phone. Wildlife conservationists say livestock incursions to parks are a threat to wildlife security. They also displace wildlife, especially from Tsavo National Park, to community areas, causing human-wildlife conflict. The crafty livestock owners use juveniles to herd, especially in Tsavo West, and so it is very hard to prosecute them, unless through the Children's Court.