Of great concern, however, is the level of polarisation that comes with this period. Already, tensions are escalating as politicians irresponsibly stoke ethnic sentiment to urge their supporters to register and vote for them in August. A selfish enterprise is it not? After all, despite the rhetoric, it is clear that the vast majority of politicians seek public office to further their own interests, rather than to serve the electorate who elected them. The rising tensions and ethnic chauvinism are evidenced by an increase in negative social media messaging, particularly on popular platforms such as WhatsApp, where videos urge tribe X to register to vote purely to prevent tribe Y from ascending to power. A further concern that manifests itself around this season is the tendency by normal human beings to suspend rational thought, indefinitely. It is a given that like tensions, emotions also tend to run high around election time. The combination of heightened emotions and the suspension of rational thought result in truly remarkable situations. To illustrate, imagine a situation where an ardent supporter of one side of the political divide states a position on a particular issue. Rather than consider the merit &mdash; or lack thereof &mdash; of the position posed, a supporter of the other side of the divide assumes that since the position posed came from the other side, it must be totally wrong, or false. He does not consider the possibility that both may be right (or wrong) to a certain extent. It is, therefore, impossible to have any meaningful debate because each believes they are right and the other is wrong. In the absence of debate, the initial issue at hand is completely lost. The situation described above is, unfortunately, a characterisation of the state of our politics today. A lot of time is spent posturing than seeking solutions to the challenges facing Kenyans, of which there is no shortage at present. In an environment where tolerance is at an all-time low, there is little, if any, engagement around issues of regional and national concern. As a result, the circus that is our politics continues on yet another cycle, as if on repeat. To break this cycle, we must begin by addressing the false narrative above. No individual, group, or political party is perfectly &ldquo;good&rdquo; thereby rendering their main competitor &ldquo;evil&rdquo;. It is simply impossible for anyone to be 100 per cent right, rendering those of a contrary view 100 per cent wrong. If we can begin to accept this premise, and accept each other as Kenyans, only then will we be able to lay the foundation for constructive political debate. When we accept each other; good, bad, warts and all, then we can begin to appreciate the perspectives of others; their hopes as well as their fears, and our rightful respective places in the development of the nation. Politics, after all, is a game of interests: Whereby &mdash; in an ideal world &mdash; each political grouping seeks to convince others of the merit of their point of view. In our context, the only thing political groupings are selling is ethnicity. This is largely the reason our political discourse has stagnated, never really allowing for an exchange of views and ideas. As a nation, we shall have to learn to deliberate: To listen to the views of others inasmuch as we expect them to internalise our own point of view. For if our politics is to remain selfish, then Kenyans would be well advised to be equally selfish with their votes this time round: setting party loyalty aside for once, and seeking out those candidates that clearly display an affinity to servant leadership, ready to serve and improve the living conditions of the people who elected them. We cannot perennially be against a person or a grouping, purely out of fear or ethnic bigotry, while the majority of our people remain poor and destitute despite blindly supporting ethnic power barons. At some point, we must stand for something: It is my hope and prayer that what we stand fo as we go to the ballot in August is the beginning of a national consciousness geared towards tolerance, inclusivity, and the resolve to address and solve problems collectively, in the interest of future generations. The writer is Chairman of the Democratic Congress (www.democraticcongress.co.ke)