A Kisumu MCA yesterday said Governor Jack Ranguma should apologise to residents and other ward reps over the failed Sh17.5 million livestock project.Kano Wawidhi MCA Moses Ochele said the livestock project was also an initiative of the assembly.He said after the animals were bought MCAs were left in the dark.Ochele said he expected the governor to tackle the matter and tell people what went wrong with the project.&ldquo;I cannot see any animal in my ward. The governor should have apologised to the assembly and the public and admitted that the project was a mistake and offer future plans on the project,&rdquo; Ochele said.The MCA spoke at the county assembly on Wednesday while debating the governor&rsquo;s speech.Last year, farmers in the county benefited from the project that was officially launched and presided over by Cord leader&rsquo;s wife Ida Odinga.&ldquo;Youth must devote their energy to income generating activities instead of accompanying politicians to funerals to cause animosity,&rdquo; she said. This saw 81 Ayrshire cows, 67 Alpine dairy goats, 10,500 chicks and 150 beehives distributed to 350 women&rsquo;s groups across the county.However, some MCAs questioned the criteria in which the animals were distributed urging the Livestock Committee to investigate.Nyakach West MCA Elijah Ochieng said residents were dropped from the list of beneficiaries and replaced with MCAs.Ochieng said the county selected farmers and gave them seeds as they waited for the animals and after the procurement, the beneficiaries were invited to Mamboleo Showground to receive the animals but some left empty-handed.&ldquo;Some people whose names were in the list did not get the animals. Instead some MCAs and officials took them,&rdquo; Ochieng said.&ldquo;We want to know who was given the animals meant for the selected farmers. The Internal Auditor in the Agriculture ministry has a list of those who received the animals and it is different from those who were meant to get them.&rdquo;However, to date, the report investigating the matter has never been finalised.A similar project was launched in Migori in December last year. More than 3,490 farmers received 300 dairy cows and 49 Sahiwal bulls to increase food production and their incomes.In 2014 the county government set up a Sh17 million dairy cow project to increase milk yield. In the 2014-15 financial year the county gave out 150 dairy cows and another 150 in 2015-16 with 49 bulls.The farmers were divided into groups of 10, who got a cow each. Governor Okoth Obado said each cow can produce more than 20 litres per day. Obado said the project has benefited poor farmers. &ldquo;My government has formed four clusters in every ward and every cluster is given one animal. This translates to four animals per ward. In seven subcounties it gives a total of 150 cows in the county,&rdquo; Obado said.