Dominion Farm CEO Calvin Burgess's allegations against ODM leader Raila Odinga are politically instigated, two MPs have said.Last week Burgess said Raila, his relatives and Siaya politicians frustrate his business through extortion, violence and eviction threats.But Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo denied claims that Raila demanded Dominion Farms fund his ODM campaigns in 2013. He said the allegations were mere theatrics since it is public knowledge Burgess funded Raila&rsquo;s opponent. Midiwo accused Burgess of being corrupt. He said Burgess has failed to adhere to provisions of a deal signed in 2003. For instance, the investor has planted sugarcane on Yala Swamp, when according to the lease he signed he was to grow rice. The National Assembly deputy minority leader said the MoU must be reviewed if the investor still wants to operate the business, failing which he and his company should pack and leave. He spoke to the Star on the phone. The American investor signed a 25-year land lease with the defunct county councils of Siaya and Bondo in 2003. Last year Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga warned that the county will not renew the Company&rsquo;s lease. He said the deal has not benefited the community.Rasanga said Dominion Farms made the decision to plant sugarcane unilaterally, without consulting his office. He said construction of a sugar factory on the wetland is null and void. Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda accused the Jubilee government of using Burgess to frustrate Raila&rsquo;s presidential ambitions.Central Alego ward MCA Leonard Oriaro, who was also adversely mentioned by Burgess, threatened to sue.He said Burgess should have reported the claims to police for investigations instead of tarnishing Raila's name. Last year Midiwo blamed his colleagues for the Yala Swamp controversy. He said the genesis of the problems surrounding the multibillion-shilling Dominion Farm goes back more than 10 years ago. Midiwo said the then district development committee, led by DC Boaz Cherutich, invited all legislators from the region to discuss Dominion Farm and its operations, but they boycotted the meeting. &ldquo;I remember the DDC meeting was to be held on Friday, but I was the only elected MP who turned up,&rdquo; he said. Midiwo said his colleagues chose instead to turn the farm into a cash cow.