King Daniel arap Moi and Prince Gideon Moi, the blue-eyed inheritor of the dynasty, are sitting on the horns of a dilemma. The horns are piercing pretty painfully.A self-declared hustler is responsible for the indecision in the household of the former President. Gideon cannot decide fast enough whether to join the opposition, or support President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection.Grand old party Kanu has given Gideon two weeks, ending tomorrow, to decide whether to join the revving Raila Odinga-inspired opposition, or anchor Jomo&rsquo;s son. Old Jomo, Uhuru&rsquo;s father, planted the seeds of the Moi dynasty.Nick Salat, Kanu secretary general, has booked a place for the party in the Cord alliance and the brewing NASA. But party leader Gideon, the Baringo Senator, is undecided.Gideon would love to work with Uhuru, but there is the Deputy President &mdash; the peasant who wormed his way into the citadel. Endorsing Uhuru means the prince kowtows to an ambitious &lsquo;impostor&rsquo;. The option compromises the future of the Moi dynasty.Like a train wobbling to Malaba on rickety rails, ambition obeys the sound of its own resolve. The ambition of the peasantry is often callous when hitting the empire, and scandalous when cutting loose from the deprivation of the past.William Samoei Ruto, a Moi prot&eacute;g&eacute;, could be an agent of capricious gods, cast on destroying the empire. The performance is live from the Moi home in Kabarak and the Ruto mansion in Sugoi.Robert Greene&rsquo;s 48 Laws of Power presents the mischievous wasp, Pin Tail. &ldquo;Pin Tail was long in quest of some deed that would make him for ever famous. So one day he entered the king&rsquo;s palace and stung the little Prince, who was in bed. The prince awoke with loud cries. The king and his courtiers rushed in to see what had happened. The prince was yelling as the wasp stung him again and again. The courtiers tried to catch the wasp, and each in turn was stung. The whole royal household rushed in, the news soon spread, and people flocked to the palace. The city was in an uproar, all business suspended. Said the wasp to itself, before it expired from its efforts, &lsquo;A name without fame is like fire without flame.&rdquo;The Deputy President is enjoying the torment of the Second First Family. The peasant act is an audacious assault on the kingdom.Eleven days ago, the matriarch of the Kenyatta dynasty, Mama Ngina, visited patriarch Moi in Kabarak. The matriarch was probably trying to secure the future of the two dynasties. It was the best a mother can do for a son in need, and a family friend indeed.A reloaded Raila, oozing gravitas from every pore, is saying Uhuru will be the first one-term President. The quintessential liberator is assembling an impregnable force for the assault on the regime.The Kenyatta and Moi dynasties are worried. The oposition constellation of Raila, Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Moses Wateng&rsquo;ula are charging with the rage of confident buffaloes.Moi Senior would love to help his adopted son, if it did not amount to endorsing Pin Tail. The former President does not want to spite his blood son Gideon, the inheritor of the Moi dynasty. The patriarch&rsquo;s wealth is enviable, but his pride-generated dilemma isn&rsquo;t.Moi owes his 24-year presidency to Jomo Kenyatta&rsquo;s mentorship. Mama Ngina is the personification of this historical debt. The debt is the lifeline of a Gideon presidency in a post-Uhuru era, when the peasant and the prince go head-to-head. Moi&rsquo;s blood son says he will run for President in 2022, when Uhuru hangs up his boots. Ruto also hopes to get in then.Gideon can still rehearse for President 2017 if Uhuru refuses to talk to the Kalenjin directly, as he has advised. Gideon can also still sit on the defence: Defend his Baringo senator seat, while allowing Kanu members to vote with their conscience. Gideon can also say the country is more important than dynasties, and join NASA to rebrand as independent-minded.A Solomonic intervention, though, could still resolve the dilemma of the Mois.