The National Super Alliance this week deposited the legal instruments of its long-awaited power pact with the Registrar of Political Parties, finally achieving legal status. NASA is not Kenya&rsquo;s first pre-General Election opposition coalition and these alliances have had a chequered history (in 25 years, only one has ever taken power), but, depending on how it proceeds, it may yet become the most significant for 15 years.You would have to go back to October 2002, two months before Kenya&rsquo;s Seventh General Election (and third multiparty era poll) and the coming together of the opposition as the National Rainbow Coalition that took Mwai Kibaki to State House and defeated President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s succession project and political neophyte then Cabinet minister Uhuru Kenyatta. What did Narc do so well that it ended Independence party Kanu&rsquo;s 39-year-long hold on power and can NASA learn from it?The four former Coalition for Reforms and Democracy principals, Raila Odinga of ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper, Musalia Mudavadi of ANC and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula of Ford Kenya ,are now the NASA principals. They have a gargantuan task ahead of them &ndash; they are arrayed against not a neophyte Cabinet minister but a President Kenyatta with one term under his belt and determined to be reelected. Alongside President Kenyatta is Deputy President William Ruto not only determined that the pair be reelected but also a mere five years away from making his own first stab at being President. NASA&rsquo;s foremost task is to ensure that President Kenyatta is the last national CEO from the Mt Kenya region for the foreseeable future, and in the process prevent what they regard as a most dreadful prospect &ndash; a Ruto presidency.Speaking from Kilifi the day NASA was formed, DP Ruto said, &ldquo;Kenyans were told to wait for a major announcement from NASA leaders but their announcement has turned out to be about sharing non-existent positions like chief minister.&rdquo;Ruto went on, &ldquo;The difference between the opposition and Jubilee is like day and night. What is important for them is creating positions for themselves while our focus is development.&rdquo; Despite signing the binding alliance agreement on Wednesday, the coalition gave no indication of its joint flagbearer whatever. As the Star reported on Thursday, it is understood that not naming the candidate is a strategic decision, so Jubilee is unable to develop a strategy against that flagbearer this early.The leaders said that on March 31 they will name the person to face President Kenyatta on Election Day. &ldquo;Many of our critics believed we would not be here, united with a common agenda, but we have managed and we are moving ahead for the good of Kenyans,&rdquo; ANC leader Mudavadi remarked. NARRATIVES OF HEAPING THE BLAME ON &lsquo;THE OTHER&rsquo;It is significant the NASA leaders chose the Rift Valley for their first rally, claiming they have made major inroads there. The same day NASA launched, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago welcomed them to Eldoret (where they will hold their first rally today) but warned them not to insult the region&rsquo;s leaders. He said the locals would not entertain any insults directed at them or their leaders for being JP supporters.This is a tall order, given that the NASA launch was itself a festival of insults against JP&rsquo;s performance in its first term in office. The Alliance was formed the same week Salil Shetty, the Amnesty International Secretary General, released the global rights body&rsquo;s 2017 report, reviewing the year 2016, and decrying hate politics everywhere. Shetty noted at one point, &ldquo;Perhaps the most prominent of many seismic events was the election of Donald Trump as President of the USA. His election followed a campaign during which he frequently made deeply divisive statements marked by misogyny and xenophobia, and pledged to roll back established civil liberties and introduce policies which would be profoundly inimical to human rights.&ldquo;Donald Trump&rsquo;s poisonous campaign rhetoric exemplifies a global trend towards angrier and more divisive politics. Across the world, leaders and politicians wagered their future power on narratives of fear and disunity, pinning blame on the &lsquo;other&rsquo; for the real or manufactured grievances of the electorate.&rdquo;That Kenya&rsquo;s politics has also become angrier and more divisive was left in no doubt by the NASA launch, where the incumbent JP was scorned like there was no tomorrow. Said Wetang&rsquo;ula, &ldquo;The economy is unable to create opportunities for millions of our young people. In four short years, the Jubilee administration has succeeded in disconnecting the economy from the welfare of the people.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;The NASA President will never say that corruption begins with you. The NASA President will never get away with passing the buck to the EACC or the Judiciary. Our goal is to attack the culture of corruption. This is our pledge to ourselves and to the people of Kenya.&rdquo;What are the ruling JP&rsquo;s chances against NASA? And what are NASA&rsquo;s chances for not breaking up and becoming such an enfeebled entity that JP wins decisively in Round One? Also, can NASA grow bigger than it is &ndash; 16 political parties to Jubilee&rsquo;s 11? NASA&rsquo;S BIGGEST HEADACHEThe Alliance&rsquo;s greatest headache will be sticking together after the standard bearer is selected by consensus and preventing at least one of them from bolting and launching a self-defeating (and NASA-defeating) solo run for President.In this regard, all eyes are on Kalonzo, whom many Jubilee analysts reckon will suffer a &ldquo;kichinjio&rdquo; moment when the NASA ticket is announced and he is not one of the top two. This is a reference to former Vice President George Saitoti&rsquo;s &ldquo;Kichinjio Kasarani (Slaughterhouse Kasarani)&rdquo; moment when he and trusted ally Joseph Kamotho were pushed out of their top Kanu positions of deputy chairman and secretary general in the merger between Kanu and Raila&rsquo;s National Development Party. There is an alternative view &ndash; that Raila will be the flagbearer and Kalonzo his running mate, an arrangement that has the expedience of retaining the Luhya vote (which Raila has locked in since 2007 ) and the Kamba (who will follow Kalonzo anywhere). Mudavadi could then be designated Prime Minister-in-Waiting throughout the campaign period.But if NASA&rsquo;s choice becomes a West Kenya ticket, as was the case in 2007, with Raila as flagbearer and Mudavadi running mate, Kalonzo will almost certainly be prevailed upon by his ethnic community&rsquo;s gatekeepers to take a walk. On the other hand, if Kalonzo and the Kamba do not give up on NASA, come what may, JP has a problem. Jubilee is holding on to a piece of good news from the Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission following the final national voter mass registration &ndash; the areas that registered the lowest new voters are both NASA strongholds; Nyanza ( 52 per cent) and Western ( 40per cent ). Rift and Central, JP strongholds, have above 70 per cent new voters. If these figures are replicated in voter turnouts &ndash; and JP has a formidable turnout machine &ndash; the ruling party will be reelected. As far as JP is concerned, there is a subtle shift in the contestation this time round, from the Tyranny of Numbers factor to a Game of Numbers. The twist in the tail is the fact that JP was a clear 1.1 million voters ahead of Cord at the end of the second mass national registration of voters in July last year. And IEBC records show that the new votes in Kiambu county alone are more than the new listings in Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia &ndash; combined. JP&rsquo;S BIGGEST HEADACHE - THE GRAFT NARRATIVE If NASA has a headache with selecting their standard-bearer, then JP has a headache with its war on corruption credentials. Corruption has never been an issue in a Kenyan presidential poll, with the possible exception of 2002, when Kenyans were simply sick and tired of 24 years of the same man and his handlers at State House and had developed Nyayo fatigue. On the day after NASA launched, the news broke that US legislators are up in arms over an American-Kenyan military aircraft deal overpriced by as much as Sh20 billion. Such news could not have broken at a worse time for JP. What&rsquo;s more, the paper trail will doubtless lead to some very highly elevated people both inside and outside government. This could easily be toted up to the massive corruption on Jubilee&rsquo;s watch.Both the ruling party and the opposition&rsquo;s newfound alliance are giving the impression that their stronghold votes will be weighed by the kilo rather than counted. The IEBC will have the final say about the numbers going into the election the day they announce the details of the cleaned-up Voter&rsquo;s Roll. After that, Kenya will decide on Election Day and it will all turn on the turnout machines.