NIC Bank has vowed to continue brick-and-motor branch expansion to complement the digitisation wave that has swept across the banking industry, leaving thousands jobless.The country&rsquo;s ninth largest lender by market share says it will also invest in digital banking platforms.&ldquo;Although the flight to digital channels is inevitable, it is our view that the branch is not dead. Branches will remain an essential channel to attract and maintain customer relationships,&rdquo; managing director John Gachora said. &ldquo;Retail banking success will be tied to the ability to offer the right products in an accessible and efficient manner.&rdquo;NIC last week opened a new office at the Rosslyn Riviera Mall on Limuru Road, adding to seven last year.Most of the banks have either frozen branch expansion, while a few have resorted to closing down non-profitable outlets.The capping of interest charges on loans at four percentage points above the 10 per cent Central Bank Rate after the Banking (Amendment) 2016 Act was enforced last September, has made lenders to find alternative ways of generating profit. This is because interest streams accounted for 70 per cent of their earnings on average pre-rate cap. Most lenders have invested heavily in mobile and digital platforms. Equity Holdings, the largest banking group by deposit accounts, last October said it had transferred most of the banking services to online channels. The shift left about 400 staff jobless, adding to more than 600 who voluntarily left in 2015.Equity chief executive James Mwangi said the push towards the digital platforms is being driven by customers who want more &ldquo;freedom, choice and control&rdquo;. Last Thursday, Ecobank launched a mobile banking platform in partnership with MasterCard. This is likely to lead to redundancies. &ldquo;The Ecobank Mobile App provides real convenience for customers,&rdquo; the bank&rsquo;s executive director and head of commercial banking Humphrey Muturi said. Titus Karanja, the managing director of third-tier Sidian Bank, last October said small banks will still need physical office space. This, he said, will act as the hub for agency and mobile banking.