Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s perceived strongholds still maintain the lead in the final national mass voter registration drive as the exercise enters its third week.The figures released by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission yesterday however paint a grim national picture, with the number of new voters falling way below expected targets.Uhuru&rsquo;s strongholds of Kiambu, Nakuru, Meru and Murang&rsquo;a continue to post impressive figures. Cord&rsquo;s perceived strongholds that have posted impressive results include Mombasa, Kilifi, Kakamega, Machakos and Kisumu. Nairobi remains the county that has registered the largest number, with 182,265 new voters. But this figure represents only 21 per cent of the targeted voters. The IEBC is targeting to register some 855,529 new voters in Nairobi. But it now appears that hopes of enlisting 6 million new voters nationwide will not be achieved, with only 1.5 million voters being registered by the end of Week Two of the exercise.The IEBC has an upper target of 6 million new voters and a lower limit of 4 million voters. But at the end of the second week, only some 1,539,879 new voters had been registered.The figure is 53.94 percent of Week Two&rsquo;s cumulative target, according to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto as well as opposition leaders led by Raila Odinga have crisscrossed the country, urging Kenyans to register in large numbers. But it now appears that their attempts have been largely ignored, as potential voters turn up during the rallies, but fail to register.Speaking in Kitale, Trans Nzoia county, last week, Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi urged residents to register and stop asking for handouts.On his part, Raila held a meeting with governors from the former Nyanza Province over the weekend and urged them to lead the exercise. The Cord leader was incensed by the lower figures posted by areas believed to be his strongholds. The registration apathy also affects President Kenyatta&rsquo;s perceived strongholds.&ldquo;We are concerned that some counties with highest potential voting population (100,000 and above) are below 20 per cent of their total targets,&rdquo; Chebukati said.The said counties include Vihiga, Nyeri, Kisii, Kericho, Kakamega, Bungoma, Siaya, and Kitui. Chebukati pleaded with stakeholders in the counties concerned to work closely with IEBC officers, so that eligible voters could register.The counties that are doing better in the exercise include Kajiado, which had a target of 33,282 new voters and had managed to register 30,766 at the end of Week Two.Others are Mandera with a target of 37,440 of which 16,115 had been registered; Kirinyaga has 28,306 of a targeted 65,722; Kiambu, with a target of 250,443, had registered 106,223; and Murang&rsquo;a, which registered 47,497 from a target of 116,330. Other &ldquo;best performing&rdquo; counties are Narok, Nakuru, Tava River and Garissa.Overall, the top 10 counties that account for the most registered voters are Nairobi (182,265), Kiambu (106,223), Nakuru (77,970), Meru (67,665), Mombasa (55,967), and Kilifi (54,692). There are also Kakamega (49,876), Murang&rsquo;a (47,497), Machakos (46,087) and Kisumu (38,739).In pastoral areas, Chebukati noted that the exercise has been hampered by the ongoing drought and &ldquo;diffi cult logistical challenges as a result of the vastness of these areas&rdquo;.He said the Commission resolved to allow registration offi cers in the aff ected counties to follow the potential voters to the areas they have settled in at the moment.However, the movement of BVR kits, he added, will be confi ned within the constituency. Some livestock keepers have crossed to neighbouring counties in search of pasture and water.&ldquo;In addition, the registration clerks in the aff ected counties have been directed to also accept transfer and change of particular applications at their respective registration centres,&rdquo; he said. Chebukati added that the Commission has made special arrangements to register students in colleges and universities across the country. The special outreach programme will be conducted for seven days, starting February 8, to the end of the voter registration on February 14.&ldquo;We call upon the support of university administrations to support this initiative,&rdquo; he urged.Chebukati said the Commission has received complaints from various aspirants of mass transportation of voters from one electoral area to another.&ldquo;It is also alleged that such transfers involve some form of inducement. Whereas Kenyans are allowed to register anywhere, the decision to transfer to a particular electoral area should not be done under undue infl uence or any form of bribery,&rdquo; he said. Chebukati added that inducement amounts to an electoral off ence and that the Commission has deployed investigators to establish the veracity of the claims.He said the Commission will also review its data to confi rm whether areas with huge transfers of voters could be among the areas where the complaints have emanated. On the list of 128,926 voters who shared identifi cation document serial numbers, Chebutati said that the Commission had confi rmed 50,174 of the voters were legitimate.&ldquo;The cleaning up of the register of voters is a continuous process,&rdquo; he said, adding that the IEBC will publish all the names of persons appearing in the duplicate records to allow for scrutiny at the constituency level.&ldquo;Persons appearing on the list of duplicate IDs shall be given an amnesty of 10 days (from the date of publication of the names) to correct the details of their registration. In the event that no action is taken by the concerned persons, the Commission shall proceed to delete their names from the register of voters,&rdquo; he said.The names will be published on the IEBC website and printouts pasted at constituency offi ces across the country. He added that the IEBC has commenced the confi guration of the BVR system to ensure that just like fi ngerprints, the ID numbers form part of the unique identifi ers of voters.&ldquo;This means that at the time of preparing the fi nal register of voters, the BVR system shall automatically identify duplicate IDs and separate them from the rest of the records,&rdquo; he said.Upon completion of the national mass voter registration and before the fi nal certifi cation of the register, the Commission will run the entire records of the register against the National Registration Bureau database to confirm the authenticity of ownership of the ID numbers.He also said the Commission, in collaboration with the Registrar of Births and Deaths, has made arrangements for the removal of dead voters on a continuous basis.The registration of prisoners, as directed by the Supreme Court, will be conducted from February 20 to 27. The prisoners will only be allowed to vote for president.