There can be no valid elections if they are not free and fair. Indeed, there can be no legitimate government unless it is built upon a foundation of free and fair polls.Notwithstanding, the recent elections in Uganda is an example of rigged elections that are the norm in many other African countries.In Gambia, an army of Ecowas soldiers led by the Senegalese had to rescue democracy and the results of free and fair elections from President Yahya Jammeh, who had refused to leave power, even after conceding defeat. Because of these experiences, populations all over Africa are plagued by fear that, despite assurances by leaders, elections must be rigged by leaders who cannot resist stealing elections. That has almost become their second nature. It is hardly surprising that the frog could hardly agree to take the scorpion across the river in fear that, once he was on his back, he would sting and kill him. But then, the scorpion had a very sweet tongue and convinced the frog it would be foolish and suicidal for him to sting the frog since, he too, would die. But after the frog had agreed to carry the scorpion across the river, just when they were in the middle, the scorpion would revert to his nature and sting the frog to death, which, led to him drowning. Given the scorpion nature of politicians, and especially those vying to be governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs, speakers and MCAs, it was very reassuring and good for democracy when Deputy President William Ruto and Jubilee head of Secretariat Raphael Tuju formally requested the IEBC to partner with them in supervising their party nominations. That will guarantee there will be no rigging. Although this assurance had been given before by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his tour of Nakuru and Nyandarua counties, another reassurance by top party leadership that it has no persons who they prefer to others is most comforting. This means nominations will be free and fair despite fears that some people are preferred to others. What is surprising is NASA's opposition to the use of the IEBC to supervise Jubilee Party nominations which would give some guarantee that the August 8 general election will also be free and fair. Rather than oppose, one would think NASA would also apply to the IEBC to supervise their nominations since their members and aspirants would also prefer to have free and fair primaries, a precursor for free and fair elections later. It would seem to me that having the IEBC supervise party nominations would be a very good test as to how they will supervise the main elections later. If the IEBC manages to conduct free and fair nominations, that would be foretaste of free and fair elections later. In the event that party nominations are not free and fair, this would give parties to suggest to the IEBC what changes can be made before elections to ensure that elections are completely free and fair. So, from every angle, there would be advantages to having the IEBC supervise nominations and any opposition to the the IEBC doing this can only stem from a desire by top NASA leadership not to have free and fair elections. We know that those opposing IEBC elections are arguing that both the Constitution and the law forbid the electoral agency managing party nominations. This is because the IEBC is required by the law to mediate electoral disputes arising from nominations. But the law has now been changed to allow the IEBC to supervise nominations. And where the law is still problematic there is still time to change it. I may not remember everything but I seem to recall that, during colonial days, after the legalisation of African parties, party nominations were conducted by the colonial government, a practice that I consider better than parties conducting there own nominations that parties would be prone to rig. Let Parliament raise money to conduct nominations for any party that will request for the service. Democracy has never been cheap.