From the onset, let me make it clear that I have no hard feelings about my purported replacement as SG of the Labour Party. I only feel sympathy, pity and amazement for those who consorted and arrived at this decision. The depth of hypocrisy and lack of decency that attaches to this decision is beneath any assembly of people called leaders. Its a desperate move actuated by extreme malice, insecurity and fear. Its shocking lack of due process and undemocratic conduct for a political party that professes to be founded on haki na usawa (justice snd equity). In fact, it a matter that if, and it ought to be, brought to the attention of the Registrar of Political Parties, should attract serious consequences. The very existence of the party is not only in violation of the PPA, its decisions are in blatant violation of the party instruments and the national Constitution with regard to natural justice, due process and fair administrative action.I am a firm believer in the rule of law, from which flows all my actions and positions on just about everything I do. Am a true Libra. Which is why the kangaroo NEC meeting held on 17th February at Olive Hotel stinks. Even an elementary adherence to due process would have dignified the preposterous decision by people who should be both knowledgeable and honorable. Hence, in the interest of the public and in order to promote orderly conduct in political parties and sober management of public affairs, am compelled to take immediate remedial action on my illegal, unprocedural and contemptuous replacement, reasons for which are many, including:Instead, I suffered the ignominy of learning about it from queries on watsapp by my team, and later reading a post on party forums by the publicity secretary, who reports to me.Apparently, no other business was discussed or was worth informing the world urgently except my purported replacement by, not one of the two deputy secretaries-general, but the Organising Secretrary. Thats malice unprecedented. Thats how low and clumsy it can get.I am aware that this malicious action was prompted by my stance on the matter of which candidate the party should back for President. My reluctance against the hawkish and premature enthusiasm exhibited by some NEC members to support the Jubilee Candidate (UK) is not reason enough to sink this low surely!We can differ in opinion and views/ preference but sort out things amicably and democratically within the confines of the party rules. Need we resort to such barbaric cannibalism in total disregard of basic protocol and well-known precedents?I never imagined such brazen putshes could be our modus operandi or become a victim! Because of the above reasons and much more, I am demanding an immediate retraction of my purported replacement, revocation of the appointment or mandate extended to anyone to perform my duties or in any acting capacity, and an apology for the embarrassment this has caused me with immediate effect, failing which I will take the necessary and logical restorative action.