Confederation of African Football high-powered delegation are expected in the country later this month to inspect facilities for the CHAN 2018.Kenya is set to host the 2018 African Nations Championships at different venues across the country.CHAN 2018 deputy CEO/event director, Herbert Tawa Mwachiro, yesterday made a pre-inspection visit in Eldoret ahead of the Caf delegation, which is expected here between February 20 and 24.According to Mwachiro, the purpose of the visit is to inspect the construction progress of the various stadia, which will host CHAN 2018. &ldquo;We are also doing a pre-inspection tour to make sure everything is on course,&rdquo; said Mwachiro, who was accompanied by CHAN 2018 assistant director, Thomas Ochieng and FKF Uasin Gishu County officials. Mwachiro said the event is only 11 months away and Caf want the sureties that everything is on course. &ldquo;They are coming to see the level of our preparedness because we have less than a year. We need to up our game and make sure we are ready,&rdquo; he added. Construction works at the Kipchoge Keino in Eldoret will start next week, according to the contractor, who is expected to work on changing rooms, terraces and pavilion.The Chan 2018 team was in Gabon recently for the Africa Cup of Nations for the purpose of benchmarking. &ldquo;There is goodwill from the government and FKF together with other stakeholders. About two weeks ago, we did benchmarking in Gabon apart from having meetings with Caf top hierarchy,&rdquo; Mwachiro explained. &ldquo;Caf is very willing and supportive in this tournament hence their visit to inspect the facilities,&rdquo; he added.Chan is the second tier event after the Premier Africa Cup of Nations and it will be hosted at the Nyayo Stadium with some of the matches being played in Mombasa, Kisumu and Eldoret. The event, scheduled for January 11- February 2, has attracted 16 teams. Kenya had failed to host the 1996 Africa Cup of Nations citing lack of finances and government support, forcing Caf to move it to South Africa.