Kenya needs to mount an aggressive public-private-partnership-health initiative, as this will pay dividends towards the country&rsquo;s overall development.UNDP resident representative Siddharth Chatterjee yesterday said a health fund should be set up, ring-fenced and be used to develop accessible, quality and compassionate healthcare.&ldquo;Public health is an engine of change. The private sector should be enticed to contribute towards its improvement,&rdquo; he said.Chatterjee said health support provides a neutral space for the private sector. It is non-political and cuts across Kenyan society, he said. The envoy spoke when he paid a courtesy call on Radio Africa Group chief executive Patrick Quarcoo at the group&rsquo;s Lion Place offices in Westlands, Nairobi. He said the devolved governments need adequate support to improve health services.Chatterjee added that the UNDP has witnessed great improvement in the decline in child deaths in areas, where it works with the county governments on healthcare.&ldquo;In principle, devolution is the best thing that happened and needs to be strengthened,&rdquo; he said.Chatterjee said public-private partnership could drive initiatives such as immunisation in the counties.&ldquo;One hundred per cent immunisation addresses 50 per cent of health issues.&rdquo;He said this will free up much-needed funds for other development programmes. The Constitution devolves much of the healthcare function to the counties. The national government is in charge of policy and national referral facilities &mdash; KNH, MTRH and Mathari Hospital.UNDP Democratic Governance team leader David Maina, who accompanied the envoy, said the agency is closely working with the IEBC to help it shake off its credibility baggage.&ldquo;A good election translates into peace and development,&rdquo; he said.Maina said the UNDP has organised an induction programme for the new IEBC commissioners to enable them to share experiences with election officials from Australia, India and Ghana, among others. &ldquo;We have a perfectly functioning election body. The only problem is the public&rsquo;s low confidence level,&rdquo; he said.Quarcoo said Radio Africa will work closely with the UN agency to educate the youth on the need to vote and avoid violence. He said the group&rsquo;s platforms have a great influence among Kenya&rsquo;s largely youthful population.