The conjoined twins who were separated in November last year were treated to their first outing yesterday.Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure, 2, who have been at the Kenyatta National Hospital, were taken to a KWS animal orphanage as a show of love on Valentine&rsquo;s Day.Caroline Mukiri, mother to the separated twins Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure hold them after receiving valentine flowers at KNH. Photo/Monicah MwangiIn red dresses, white tops and stockings and red shoes, they walked out of the hospital for the first time since their admission in 2014. Their mother Caroline Mukiri, who was also in a red dress, expressed her happiness at seeing her girls out of a hospital environment.&ldquo;It has been a very long journey and today is one of my happiest days,&rdquo; she said.Separated twins Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure walk out of KNH for the first time since they were separated. Photo/Monicah MwangiMukiri thanked God and KNH doctors and staff for their kindness in supporting the girls. &ldquo;They are fine and healed. I thank God for this far,&rdquo; she said.KNH CEO Lilly Koros said they decided to celebrate the two on a day synonymous with celebrating loved ones.&ldquo;They have been with us since they were born. We felt we needed to say thank you to God first and to their mother. We are celebrating them for being with us here. They will see the animals for the first time and we feel honoured for that,&rdquo; she said.Caroline Mukiri, mother to the separated twins Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure receive valentine flowers from KNH CEO Lilly Koros. Photo/Monicah MwangiThe twins (pictured) shared the anal canal. They were successfully separated in a delicate procedure that took 23 hours by a team of more than 50 specialists from KNH and the University of Nairobi School of Health Sciences.Favour and Blessing can now fully experience the joys of childhood.Separated twins Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure admire caged lions at the animal orphanage where they were taken for valentine yesterday. Photo/Monicah MwangiSeparated twins Favour Karimi and Blessing Kathure admire caged lions at the animal orphanage where they were taken for valentine yesterday. Photo/Monicah Mwangi