Kifuku is a mixed farm on 6,000 acres near Rumuruti in Laikipia. It is owned and managed by the Dodds family, who have been there for many years.It has been under persistent attack and harassment for the last year. It is adjacent to Lombara farm where the owner John Wachira Mwai was shot and crippled by raiders in July 2016. Lombara is now permanently occupied by Samburu.In the last month attacks on Kifuku have escalated dramatically. Here is a slightly edited diary of the attacks on Kifuku since last May as compiled by Maria Dodds.16 May 2016 - 40 head of sheep were stolen from Karai section and not recovered13 July &ndash; John Wachira Mwai was shot while driving to Rumuruti from Lombara in early evening. He is still recovering but is in a wheelchair. The family has abandoned the farm which has been completely taken over by Samburu.10 August - 13 steers stolen from Morogo section and not recovered. Every night since mid July (when the Samburu invaded Lombara) there has been illegal grazing on Karai section of Kifuku16 September - illegal grazing at night on Morogo section of Kifuku. They break the stone wall which we then repair in the day. Seven heifers were stolen from cattle yards close to main office and houses but not recovered (OB no10 -17/9/2016)19 September - illegal cattle were impounded on Kieni section of Kifuku but police instructed us to release them21 September &ndash; George Dodds, who is currently managing Kifuku Estate, had nine shots fired at him in two incidents on Karai section (OB no 40 &ndash; 21/9/2016)26 September - attempted stock theft on Kieni boundary28 September &ndash; 135 head of illegal grazers&rsquo; cattle caught on Morogo section. One youth arrested but cattle released27 September &ndash; shots fired at Karai section borehole and at headman based there (OB no.10 -28/9/2016)1 October &ndash; old olive trees chopped down on Lorian section of Kifuku. Attempted cattle theft but cattle recovered before they left the farm (OB no.10 &ndash; 2/10/2016)7 October &ndash; three pedigree Boran stud cattle shot on Kieni boundary. Two died, one recovered (OB no 7 &ndash; 7/10/2016)7 October &ndash; 26 October - Five Administration police officers based on Kifuku to assist with security19 October &ndash; fencing wire stolen from Karai sectionRead: Laikipia farm invasions continueAlso read: Is Laikipia invasion secretly tolerated?A moran grazes cows at a farm in Mlima Tatu area of Laikipia county. /FILE25 October &ndash; police supporting Kifuku staff on patrol in Morogo section were ambushed. One policeman was shot in the lower leg. This caused the police to leave Kifuku. (OB no 39 - 25/10/2016). Since the police left Kifuku left, we cannot access our boundary dry stonewall as we come under fire without police protection. Every few weeks we get police support for a few days to rebuild the walls but then the police leave and the walls are re-broken.28 October &ndash; small numbers of Pokot illegal grazers are coming in at night in increasing numbers3 November - attempted stock theft from cattle yards near farm office4 November &ndash; a Turkana elder was shot dead by unknown persons on Morogo section. The Turkana had a grazing agreement with us.4 November &ndash; night guards with cattle at cattle yards were fired upon5 November &ndash; 16 bulls stolen from Karai section but 15 head were later recovered on route to Churo (OB no 6 -6/11/2016)5/6/7 November &ndash; Turkana and Samburu communities are fighting on Lorian section both inside and outside Kifuku.5 November - There is both day and night time illegal grazing on Karai, Pesi and Lorian sections by Samburu and Pokot illegal grazers in large numbers7/8 November &ndash; Illegal grazers broke into and damaged father&rsquo;s house on Karai section. They threatened they were going to burn the house (OB no 33 &ndash; 8/11/2016)8 November &ndash; Samburu community promised to continue harassing us and damaging property until we were driven off the farm as Mwai was at Lombara Farm.7/8 November - police came to remove illegal grazers from Karai section8 November - illegal grazers fire shots at police on Karai section. County Commander arrived at 8pm and instructed police to guard my father&rsquo;s house9 November &ndash; solar electric fence battery stolen from Karai section and solar houses damaged26 November &ndash; 34 head cattle stolen from yards. Shots were fired, and the gate broken. Two head recovered on Ol Morani on 4 December2016 (OB no 6 &ndash; 26/11/2016)28 November &ndash; security at Lorian solar house held at gun point and solar panel stolen.1 December - attempted theft of 120 head dairy cattle, theft of 4 Dorper sheep. The cattle were recovered on the airstrip. Shots were fired including at the foreman&rsquo;s house (OB no16 &ndash; 2/12/2016)5 December &ndash; solar battery and solar panel stolen from Corner 1 security houses.7 December &ndash; police moved illegal grazing cattle from inside Kifuku towards Ol Moran. These cattle came back two days later with others.8 December &ndash; shots fired, Goigoi (sickly animals) herd stolen but recovered near bridge at Matigari9 December &ndash; farm vehicle with armed APs ambushed near twin dams in centre of the farm. One shot hit the vehicle but no one hurt10 December &ndash; police moved about 1000 head illegal cattle from inside Kifuku past Matigari and on towards Suguroi. These cattle returned on 11 December.11 December &ndash; police moved about 500 head out of Kifuku by the same route but they returned12 December &ndash; the main gate guard was held at gunpoint by five armed Pokot who pushed their cattle out towards Suguroi15 December &ndash; OCPD arrived and didn&rsquo;t believe there were any illegal cattle on the farm. He went with the farm foreman, came across seven herds, was fired upon, and then left.16 December - Flew over the boundaries and counted over 40 herds of illegal cattle inside the farm20 December - GSU, APs and Police rounded up illegal cattle. As they arrived a lot of cattle were moved off in a hurry. One herd was impounded on Karai section. The police returned to round up more but were ambushed by Pokot and there was a heavy exchange of fire. Police proceeded with the cattle.21 December - impounded cattle were pushed north by security personnel but cattle all returned by 23 December23 December &ndash; There was a big round-up of Samburu cattle grazing on smallholder farms in Kieni. They were pushed through Kifuku towards Matigari.24 December &ndash; attempted stock theft at cattle yards by Samburu. Shots were fired at a watchman at cattle yards. The watchman at Lorian solar house was told by Pokot to leave or he would be killed.Read: Laikipia conservancy cancels Sh600 million investment after violenceAlso read: Is Laikipia invasion secretly tolerated?28 December &ndash; at 7 am the wall was broken on Kieni section and over 300 head of Samburu cattle pushed in. While chasing them out, they fired two shots at us. At 5 pm while returning from the AP base on Kifuku, we were driving on the main access road and saw illegal cattle. Approximately 15 shots were fired at us.30 December - security meeting in Nanyuki where Chiefs and Assistant chiefs from Ol Moran were called and told to proceed to Kifuku, identify the owners of the cattle illegally grazing, give them 2 days notice to leave or force would be used. Some of the Pokot have left with their cattle but others have arrived.30/31 December &ndash; our neighbour had his deep trench filled in and cattle pushed. Armed Samburu ambushed farm security personnel but no one hurt2 January 2017 &ndash; a neighbour&rsquo;s vehicle ambushed in Morogo valley on main road to Rumuruti at 6.30 pm by six armed Samburu with motorbikes. One armed AP shot in lower leg and one staff member shot in buttocks. Illegal grazers are still on Kifuku in big numbers. The Samburu on the Pesi and George Mwai sections with different herds grazing both day and night. Pokot are on the Karua, Lorian sections again different herds grazing both day and night. On Lorian and Kieni sections increasing numbers of Samburu cattle with Turkana and Nandi communities are now enjoying the breakdown of law and order and pushing in with cattle sheep and goats. We have already sold about 250 head of unfinished cattle to make way for enough grass for the breeding herds but the situation as the dry weather continues is getting critical.8 January &ndash; theft of 29 heifers at 5pm by Samburu who beat up the herdsman. They were followed onto George Mwai&rsquo;s farm by Police officers by no cattle recovered. Thousands of illegal cattle were leaving Kifuku and most likely Kifuku cattle were mixed into them. A white Toyota LandCruiser registration KAC687C was followed. After an exchange of fire, police took possession of vehicle which was towed to Rumuruti Police station. The car contained supply rations of sugar, tea, beans, onions, maize meal. A serving GSU officer Ltorupa Lengolos was arrested and was due to go to court on Tuesday 10 January. What was he doing on land not belonging to him? Why is he involved in the hostile takeover of Lombara Farm? Why did he evade and later fire at police?9 January &ndash; illegal cattle pushing our cattle out of the remaining grass across from the big dam. We managed to stop the attempted theft of our herd of stud cattle. At midday one herd of Pokot cattle openly drank at big dam, one unarmed herder visible. At 2.30 another herd of cattle came to the spillway of big dam but shots were fired at cattle to deter them. Three cattle were killed. About 5 pm, 12 people were spotted openly walking on other side of big dam and nine were armed with AKs. They reached the dead cattle in spillway. One herder aimed his gun at the house, we took cover, he fired one shot, we returned fire with two shots and then retreated. Police came and did an operation across dam wall.10 January &ndash; at 8am we fired shots towards tail of big dam to turn cattle coming in to graze. They continued further west where they have been grazing everyday. At 2pm eight armed men were spotted on other side of big dam. One shot was fired at them. They returned fire but headed away along the top of valley. The AP County Commander visited to hear first hand what is going on. At 6.30pm 21 heifers of the 29 stolen were returned and found halfway up the main road into farm. Five APs are now at the house every night11 January - quiet morning but still thousands of cattle all over the farm. Around 1pm two Police vehicles and two police lorries arrived and proceeded down the Kieni boundary towards the causeway dam. A lot of fire was heard which came within 20 metres of house where we were taking cover. Eventually the police retreated after one officer was injured. In the chaos two breeding cows were stolen and were slaughtered and eaten. Around 6 pm, 30 armed Samburu were seen moving from Pesi past Kieni into the Morogo Valley and crossed into the farm.12 January - thousands of cattle still coming in each day, dust visible each morning as they are pushed in and each evening as they leave. At 12.30pm six armed men were spotted coming down to dam wall followed followed by another 18. Shots were fired at farm vehicle as it went to the office to get security. The armed men advanced across the dam wall hiding on the back side where they vandalised a Lister engine and water pump. Then 3 armed men stood up on dam wall, about 90 metres from the verandah, and fired towards the road. We all had taken cover in the house. The farm security returned fire. Armed men went down the valley towards our cattle but the security team managed to push them back. Police had been called but due to problems at Mugie, no police got to the house until about 3.30pm. The firefight continued with with five men across the dam from the house and another group in the far spillway. At 6.30pm the armed men moved back and near the open plain they split into two groups - one carrying on west where most of the Pokot are grazing and the other moving south to the Kieni boundary where the Samburu are based. We estimate the armed Samburu and Pokot fired between 50 &ndash; 75 rounds towards us. Police left but only after the cattle were all locked up. Five APs came for the night.13 January &ndash; a team of Aps, Rumuruti OCS and police officers arrived very early to set up an ambush. A group of 15 to 20 armed men then dispersed and no contact was made. At 4.15 pm just after the police had left, two shots were fired from where the group was last seen.14 January - about 10.30 am about 15 to 20 armed men didn&rsquo;t approach the dam possibly having seen the police vehicle. Around 4.30pm they surrounded some of our cattle in the valley below the dam. We fired shots towards them, they managed to push 11 head towards their cattle but eventually they left the cattle and retreated. A stud cow was badly injured.15 January - At 11am one person was spotted sitting in a tree about 500 metres from the house and was joined by seven armed men. One shot was fired from that area about 12.30. Around 2 pm, two shots were fired towards the house from the gum trees on far side of dam. Some armed men were watching the house while others went down the side of the valley to steal cattle. At about 5pm the gunman headed west and joined up with huge herds of their cattle that had been grazing inside all day. The dayshift of APs were collected at 6.30pm and the nightshift of five APs arrived at 7.50pm.16 January &ndash; It was a very sad day as the first herds of stud cattle left the farm to go to safer pastures until the impunity is sorted out. We saw up to 35 armed people. Two armed Pokot walking behind the cattle yards around midday, they tried to speak to one of our staff but he refused to get into conversation with them. At 4.30 pm part of the armed gang got to the drinking trough between the farm office and my house. One herd of stud cattle were walking up to the yards for the night. They were ambushed by two people who split the herd, the herdsman blew his whistle, we alerted the 5 APs at the house who pointed out that the armed pastoralists would ambush anyone trying to follow them as they were only 5 against the 35 we had seen earlier. The cattle were run through the valley and crossed into thick bush. The police attempted to stop the theft by firing at the armed men who returned fire. The incident was reported to Rumuruti who again promised us support. A vehicle left Rumuruti to see if they could see our cattle in the huge herds of illegal cattle grazing on the farm for the night. Once the remaining cattle were rounded up, we established that 19 stud breeding cows and 21 calves were missing. At 8pm a night guards called on the radio to say 2 calves had returned towards the yards. Torch lights were seen towards the Pesi River. The APs fired shots in that direction. Fire was returned.17 January - two more herds of our cattle left the farm with police escort again. Our relief at our &lsquo;peaceful&rsquo; day was short lived. At 7pm the night radio man at the main gate wasn&rsquo;t answering his radio when called. We managed to raise the day radio man by telephone who told us that they had been ambushed. Two APs went down to the main gate. They had been attacked by four Samburu men, one carrying an AK, the others carrying rungus and pangas. They were beaten and the occupants of a car belonging to Pesi residents were also beaten. The thugs then stole the farm base station radio, 12 V battery, solar panel and electric fence energiser. We contacted Ol Pejeta and arranged for them to come early morning with the tracker dogs.18 January &ndash; the tracking unit from Ol Pejeta arrived at 6.20 but had to wait for two hours for the police. The dogs picked up the scent and headed down to the Pesi River, through Matigari and onto boda bodas where the scent was lost. Groups of armed men gathered and dispersed in different areas. The DCIO Rumuruti arrived to take statements of the events of 8 January when the GSU officer&rsquo;s vehicle was found on George Mwai&rsquo;s farm. One breeding cattle herd was loaded onto lorries and headed off for safe keeping. At 12.30 one herd of cattle was ambushed by armed men towards the Kieni boundary. The police followed up but the cattle were sped off and mixed into other cattle very quickly. Five cows, one stud Bull and 3 calves were lost. We flew around the farm in a plane and one shot was fired at the aircraft. Thousands of head of cattle were seen all over the farm and a possible sighting of our cattle near the White Houses corner. As the police were deciding on what action to take, a herd of cattle came down to the big dam with lots of armed men. The APs decided to walk down to the dam from the office and see what was going on. One herd of illegal cattle came down to drink at the main dam. The APs and Police fired to push them back. If the illegal grazers gain control here, then that will be the end as they will then have access to our last grass. The farm houses, staff housing, and office will be surrounded. One employee walking into Rumuruti came across seven herds of Pokot cattle which had just left Kifuku. They intimated that the grass on Kifuku was almost finished.A file photo of Laikipia residents during a peace meeting in Kamampiu in Laikipia North. /WANJOHI GAKIOThursday 19 January &ndash; we sent another two herds of cattle off the farm for safe-keeping. One shouldn&rsquo;t have to do this. We checked up on the remaining cattle constantly with extra herdsmen on each herd and grazing close to the house compound and watering in the house compound. Radios going constantly with reports of armed men gathering, climbing trees, splitting up and regrouping again. Illegal cattle encroaching closer and closer. We met Kikuyu smallholder neighbours who realise that if Kifuku is overrun then they are next. They already are having problems. Around 4.30pm one shot was fired from just below the dam wall towards the house. It hit a young bull grazing peacefully in the compound. It was shot in the lung so we had to put it down.Friday 20 January - another four lorries left the farm for safekeeping and the Ayrshire bull which we borrowed also left. Illegal cattle are still pouring in every morning from the Kieni boundary, George Mwai boundary, and Pesi/Matigari boundary. At 10.30 we noticed smoke between the cultivated fields and the Karau boundary.. As the fire grew, six armed Samburu came in the main gate from Matigari openly carrying their AKs and shouted abuse at the Kikuyu gateman. The APs and Police arrived at 11.30 am and engaged in an exchange of fire which lasted until about 4pm. Armed men fired at the house with several shots landing very close. Luckily no cattle were hit. Our cattle numbers are now much smaller. We couldn&rsquo;t go down to the main gate this evening as Turkana women coming back from Rumuruti warned that armed Samburu were waiting just below the cattle yards to ambush us.Saturday 21 January &ndash; another day of violence and mayhem but this has been going on since September. We weighed the cull heifers to sell off rather than look for grazing. Armed men gathered and dispersed then regrouped as they have done over the previous days. The APs and Police were here waiting for the armed invaders to fire the first shot but they didn't. Soon after the Police left one shot was heard towards the main road. Then George went to lock up the cattle and as he got home at 7.30 pm he was shot at walking down to the house. He is extremely extremely lucky not to have been hit. I would love to believe that this is just a drought and pastoralists are desperate for grass but this is far more sinister and the government seems unable or unwilling to stop it.January 22 - fires had been lit in the night and we could see through binoculars people putting out fires in one place and lighting them in other areas. A lot of our Eucalyptus has gone. The tracker dogs came to follow the scent from the three guys who tried to shoot George and within a few minutes of tracking they were fired upon. The tracking was called off. The rest of the day was spent with the Police and APs shot at and returning fire. Things eventually calmed down in the evening and all the Police left. The cattle were locked up and we were waiting for the night shift of 5 APs to arrive. Then about 7.15 we heard a couple of shots close by, on the dam wall, and then a lot of firing towards the cattle yards and offices. We called the APs to alert. We've been called to say some cattle that could belong to us and another farm have been impounded near Nyahururu. Brilliant, fingers crossed.Monday 23 January - our remaining herds of cows go grazing but four armed men were seen in the thick bush between our house and the yards and offices so we had to wait for the day shift of AP's to arrive. On arriving at the yards many of our staff were waiting to see us. Some wanted to leave permanently, others wanted to take a few weeks off. The farm invasion has hit our staff extremely hard as well. It is sad for them and those who rely on their income. Luckily some staff are ready to hang in here for a bit longer. Each herd now has three or four herdsmen. More staff were threatened by people on motorbikes on the access road. We couldn't get access to the house on the dam to see the damage and to collect the two dogs that wouldn't follow the staff when they were chased off and their houses burnt. We heard two shots and suspect it was them shooting the lock on the door to gain access. We all relaxed until 4 pm when I stepped onto the veranda in a red shirt and one shot was fired at us. We quickly took cover. At 8.30 a volley of shots was fired over the backyard in another attempt to steal some of our remaining cattle. Iy was prevented by our own security.President Uhuru Kenyatta in Rumuruti stated that land invasions on private property would not be tolerated. We sincerely hope that this is the turning point in an otherwise desperate situation.Tuesday January 24 - another herd left the farm for safekeeping, now collecting water by bowser to take to remaining cattle due to the pump being vandalized. We are having to buy in feed for our cattle, while other cattle not belonging to us are grazing freely. The local Police and APs continue to assist us as much as they can but need back up. We are trying to talk with community leaders to try and stop the theft and vandalism but the herds continue to come in. At about 6pm about 12 shots were fired at the house, thankfully the police were here and returned fire.Top of FormJanuary 25JanuaJanuary 25 - some very good news that 16 breeding cows and two calves have been found abandoned in a slaughter house not far from Nyahururu. George with a huge amount of help from the local community eventually loaded the cows and calves onto a truck to come home. The cows have lost a huge amount of condition since they were stolen on the 16th. Some have been pretty badly beaten but they are now home and hopefully will get used to the new menu of hay, dairy meal and molasses.Bottom of FormA peace meeting was held off the farm with Pokot and Samburu leaders and police. After the meeting we were assured that there would be no more shooting, theft and vandalism. Two hours later about 10 or 12 shots were fired towards the car and the house. The Rumuruti OCS had also just left and was fired upon between the yards and the main road and then the AP's were also fired upon. The blatant aggression shown to the government is not a great precedent. The tide has to turn, law and order must be restored.January 26 - we heard shooting up in the plains and were told they were shooting at elephant. We spent the day watching herds and herds of illegal cattle and groups of armed people gathering. Our first lorry load of hay arrived and the recovered Boran cows were delighted but still turning their noses up at dairy meal. Bowsers of water are trucked up all morning to fill troughs and tanks. APs and Police here and helping where they can.Friday January 27 - we finally managed to get to the cottage on the dam to assess the damage. The staff houses have been burnt, the store has been broken into and anything useful stolen. Everything else has been broken. The two dogs that lived there had both been speared but were still alive. We had to put them both down.This is not about 'Kiangazi na Nyasi' - drought and grass - this is a sinister plan, well coordinated and planned. The security personnel in Rumuruti, the Laikipia County AP Commander, Police Commander and County Commissioner have tried very hard to be helpful but do not have enough personnel or resources to cope for a sustained removal of illegal grazers. The illegal grazing and aggression escalates each time an operation happens but doesn&rsquo;t succeed.