Leading mortgage financier Housing Finance plans to reduce the size of home loan for the middle and low income earners to stimulate uptake. The lender said it plans to offer mortgages at 10 per cent, which is below the market rate of 14 per cent. The mortgage financier, which controlled about 24.3 per cent market share in 2015, yesterday said it is developing a product that will allow prospective homeowners access funding of between Sh1.5 million and Sh4 million under the preferential terms. This will be through a proposed special Sh10 billion fund in partnership with international investors. Managing director Frank Ireri said the lender has opened talks with local and international financiers. The fund, he said, will be rolled out mid next year. &ldquo;It is one of the things we are doing to help with the development of affordable housing. We are already talking to a number of impact investors to create the fund for lending to customers,&rdquo; Ireri said. &ldquo;The idea is to keep mortgage repayment as low as possible and closer to what the prospective customers are now paying as rent in order to convert as many rent payers as possible to homeowners.&rdquo; The average size of a mortgage loan has been rising in line with increasing value of houses, a development that has locked out majority of borrowers from accessing loans to build homes. Average mortgage rose to Sh8.3 million in 2015 from Sh7.5 million in 2014 and Sh6.9 million in 2013, official data from industry regulator, the Central Bank of Kenya, shows. There were 24,458 mortgage loan accounts in December 2015, which was a growth of 11.11 per cent year-on-year from 22,013 accounts, but which is low in a country with a population of more than 44 million people. The mortgages were valued at Sh203.3 billion, a 23.96 per cent growth year-on-year. The low uptake has largely been linked to high cost of housing, interest rates and high incidential costs &ndash; valuation and legal fees as well as stamp duty. These concerns have largely been blamed for big deficit in housing for low and middle-income segments, with developers concentrating on high-end segment to reap maximum returns. &ldquo;The housing need as we are informed is about 250,000 houses a year. But only 30,000 houses are built annually due to the affordability gap,&rdquo; Ireri said. HF fund will largely target small businesses, social enterprises, and real estate and infrastructure projects that seek financial and social performance concurrently.&ldquo;The alternative would have been to raise this money through the capital markets, but the problem with this is that the returns to investors would have been capped at prevailing market rates, which would have pushed up the cost of mortgage,&rdquo; Ireri said of the decision to partner with other local and international financiers. A survey by the Kenya Bankers Association in 2015 established that about 80 per cent of protective homeowners were reluctant to take up a mortgage, citing high interest rates and long processes for transferring the property, at an average of 15 years, as their major concerns.