Muhoroni and Sofapaka football clubs will have to wait longer to know their fate in the Kenya Premier League after the Sports Disputes Tribunal set the hearing of their petition for March 2.Muhoroni Youth together with Kenya Premier League have petitioned the relegation of the former and Sofapaka FC from the top tier league by Football Kenya Federation. Vihiga United and Kenya Commercial Bank FC have been enjoined in the case as interested parties since they are the ones, who benefitted from the promotion, replacing Sofapaka and Muhoroni.The hearing of the petition was delayed after the complainant, represented by lawyer Martha Agutu at the Tribunal, failed to serve Vihiga United officials. Consequently, Muhoroni and KPL have to serve Vihiga United with the petition documents. Vihiga United through their lawyer Hellen Maritim are expected to file return of service next Tuesday, February 21.The appellants will thereafter have seven days to file their response (by February 28). The hearing is set for March 2, after which the Tribunal will give a ruling on the way forward for the Kenya Premiership which has been embroiled in a back-and-forth supremacy court battles.In this case, the two teams were relegated and placed in the National Super League for non-compliance of Confederation of African Football&rsquo;s club licensing rule adopted by Football Kenya Federation and its stakeholders (including clubs) in their last AGM.FKF had set December 31, 2016 as the deadline, and thereafter extended the compliance window by two weeks to January 15, 2017, but the two clubs did not adhere to the requirements as directed for all the teams featuring in the local Premier League. Meanwhile,AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia have to look for alternative grounds following the closure of Kasarani and Nyayo Stadium. Kasarani and Nyayo stadia are currently closed to pave way for renovations ahead of international sporting events.Kasarani will stage the 2017 IAAF World Under-18 Championships in July while Nyayo will be used as one of the venues during the 2018 Chan competition set for January.The renovations are already underway as confirmed by Sports Kenya chairman Fred Muteti. &ldquo;Yes, the two stadia will be busy in the near future and that&rsquo;s why we have seen it meaningful to renovate them in good time. The process has already started.&rdquo;The development will affect Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards since the respective stadiums have been their home-grounds in the previous seasons. K&rsquo;Ogalo played their home matches at Nyayo Stadium in 2016 after Nairobi City stadium was declared unfit for matches while AFC Leopards used Kasarani as their home ground in 2016. &mdash;Additional reports by Goal.com