Former Chief of Staff in the Office of the Prime Minister Caroli Omondi wants ODM agents who claim they were shortchanged during the March 4, 2013, election to come forward.He has been accused of withholding the agents&rsquo; pay. It is said most of the agents, who were to oversee counting of presidential votes, protested they were not paid.It is also said failure to pay them their dues contributed to the alleged presidential vote rigging.Many supporters of Cord leader Raila Odinga have previously demanded that Omondi come clean on the issue.But speaking at a talk show on Ramogi FM on Tuesday night, Omondi denied he withheld the agents&rsquo; money. He said all those whose names were on the party list got their pay, and he only refused to pay those fronted by candidates, as their names were missing from his list.&ldquo;People say I made Raila lose the presidency because I didn&rsquo;t pay agents. I can confirm here that&rsquo;s not true. I had instruction to pay only ODM agents but not those of individual candidates,&rdquo; Omondi said.&ldquo;Let any agent whose name was forwarded to me by the party and I refused to give their money come up. I stand to be challenged.&rdquo;In 2014, Raila&rsquo;s aide Eliud Owalo accused Omondi of failing to protect their boss&rsquo; votes.Owalo said all campaign finances were managed and administered by Omondi on the one hand and [Sarah] Elderkin on the other. &ldquo;This includes, but not limited to, Sh94 million the Cord presidential candidate released directly to Omondi two weeks to the election for paying agents,&rdquo; he said.Omondi denied the claims and told Owalo to take responsibility for having run a failed project since he was the head of Raila&rsquo;s campaign secretariat.Elderkin said she handled the campaign money and did not get any from Omondi. She said she worked with Owalo.Former ODM director of political affairs Ngunjiri Wambugu came to Omondi&rsquo;s defence, and accused Owalo of mismanaging funds.Omondi said those who persist with the claims are hell-bent on killing his political ambitions. He is running for Suba MP, a seat held by ODM chairman John Mbadi.&ldquo;I won&rsquo;t be cowed by opponents who have turned this issue into a tool to fight me politically,&rdquo; Omondi said.He accused his critics of peddling lies that he was an impediment to Raila&rsquo;s 2013 presidential bid.Omondi urged ODM supporters to ignore his critics and concentrate on registering to vote. &ldquo;Anybody who wants Raila to be President, like I do, should mobilise others to register as voters because all other issues are not helping,&rdquo; he said.Omondi will square it off for the ODM ticket with Mbadi during the primaries.