Cord affiliate parties are bracing for a bruising battle for seats in Nyamira county in the August 8 general election.Ford Kenya and Wiper have already identified candidates for various seats in thecounty considered an ODM stronghold.South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya&rsquo;s Kenya National Congress will also field candidates. Observers say the move may hurt the opposition&rsquo;s bid to retain the seats. Cord won all parliamentary seats and the governor&rsquo;s seat in 2013.The three parties will field candidates for governor, senator, woman representative, MP and MCAs to battle Jubilee. smaller parties will also field candidates.Recently, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka (pictured) met aspirants from Kisii and Nyamira counties. Retired judge David Onyancha ditched ODM and will be Wiper&rsquo;s candidate for governor. Ford Kenya will field former Kitutu Masaba MP Mwancha Okioma, who moved from Ford People after the party was dissolved. Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama, West Mugirango MP James Gesami and John Kumenda will compete for the ODM ticket.&ldquo;Wiper will win the governor seats in Kisii and Nyamira,&rdquo; said lawyer Lumumba Nyaberi. He will run against Kisii Governor James Ongwae.Nyaberi said Kalonzo is expected in Nyamira and Kisii counties on Sunday and Monday to mobilise residents to register as voters. Wiper will field advocate Nyambega Mose for the Senate seat. He will face senior counsel Okong&rsquo;o O&rsquo;Mogeni of ODM. Mose confirmed he quit Jubilee for Wiper. He contested the senator&rsquo;s seat on a TNA ticket in the last election. &ldquo;In the last election, I was associating myself with the wrong people and the wrong party. I respect O&rsquo;Mogeni, but now we are in court and the people will decide,&rdquo; Nyambega said.Nyamira Senator Mong&rsquo;are Okong&rsquo;o, who was elected on the Ford Kenya ticket, has declared his interest in the presidency.Wiper will also field Grace Nyamongo for the woman representative post against incumbent Alice Chae of ODM.Nyamira Lands executive Janet Kumenda will contest on the Ford Kenya ticket. ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire will also face Wiper&rsquo;s Victor Swanya, who will be making his second attempt on the Kitutu Masaba constituency seat.In Borabu, MP Ben Momanyi is likely to face advocate Nyandoro Kambi of ODM. Other Wiper aspirants in Nyamira are Nyayiemi Moturi (North Mugirango) and Steve Mogaka (West Mugirango). Ford Kenya will also field Vincent Kemosi in West Mugirango.The incumbent MP is seeking the governor&rsquo;s office.