Opposition leader Raila Odinga has assured ODM aspirants in Kisii county the primaries will be free and fair.Raila held a six-hour closed-door meeting with the aspirants yesterday. Present were ODM National Elections Board chairman Judy Pareno and chairman John Mbadi.Some aspirants are said to be considering moving to NASA-affiliated parties.During the meeting, Governor James Ongwae and nominated Senator Janet Ong&rsquo;era fought off claims they have a list of preferred aspirants.Hopefuls Richard Kibagendi and Silvanus Osoro accused the duo of handpicking candidates in all the nine constituencies and 44 wards.&ldquo;There are more than 3, 000 applicants and there is no preferred aspirant. We must work as a team to deliver votes for Raila and ODM in Kisii,&rdquo; Ongwae said.Raila said, &ldquo;We have no preferred candidate. All aspirants will battle it out during the free, fair and credible nominations. That is why we are starting the process early. We can repeat the nominations even three times so that all aspirants are satisfied.&rdquo;He added, &ldquo;We have had good discussions with aspirants and reviewed the party position in Kisii. We have spoken candidly and this is healthy for our party. Our common enemy is Jubilee.&rdquo;Raila expressed concern that Kisii is among the counties in Nyanza with the lowest turnout during the mass voter registration drive. He told aspirants to join hands and mobilise residents to register.He said listing has been poor because many youths do not have IDs. &ldquo;The presidential directive that applicants get IDs within three days is not being implemented across the country. It is being done selectively,&rdquo; Raila said.He said irregularities w detected in the voters register should be cleaned before the polls.Raila said Kisii remains an absolute ODM zone, adding that they are keen to win all seats. &ldquo;You should ensure you make the party even stronger,&rdquo; he told aspirants.Mbadi, who has also been accused of endorsing some aspirants, told the aspirants, &ldquo;We are raising these issues as a family. We are struggling to tell the people to trust us to conduct free, fair and credible nominations.&rdquo;The mass voter registration drive runs for a month and ends next Tuesday.