The Garissa governor race will be decided by clan politics and arithmetic, just as in sthe other counties in Northeastern.Garissa, the gateway to the expansive former Northeastern province, is made up of three main Ogaden subclans &mdash; the Aulyhan clan, the Abduwak and the Samawathal. Other Ogaden subclans with considerable votes are the Makabul, the Mohamed Zuber and the Bahgere.Other Somali clans with considerable numbers of votes are the Garre, the Borana and the Ajuran.NON-SOMALIS FACTORThere are also the non-Somali communities in the county and they are concentrated in Garissa town.The majority of them work as casual workers and businessmen. They, too, command a significant number of votes that could make a difference in the elections. They are the Kambas, the Merus, the Kikuyus, the Luhyas and the Luos. However, it&rsquo;s usually difficult to estimate the number of non-locals present in the county at a particular time since a big number of them usually opt to vote in their home counties.There are no accurate statistics on the three major Ogaden subclans and as a result, each of them claims to have the Tyranny of Numbers factor. During the 2013 general election, there were four candidates eyeing the governor seat. They were Nathif Jama from the Aulyhan clan , Ali Korane from the Abduwak, Harum Mohamed from the Samawadhal and Mohamed Shurie also from the Abduwak.It turned out to be a two-horse race, pitting Jama, a banker by profession and Korane, a long serving civil servant. Korane lost by 2,000 votes. Analysts say Korane lost because his clan divided its votes.POLITICAL ANALYSTS&rsquo; OPINIONPolitical analysts say the race will be a repeat of 2013, although the number of candidates has declined to three: Between Jama and Korane. There is, however, new entrant Bashir Hajji, who comes from the Samawadhal.Korane will depend on his Abduwak subclan and the newly formed Talamuge Alliance. The alliance brings together the Samawathal and the Abduwak communities, who share the same clan lineage. Korane&rsquo;s deputy comes from the Samawathal.Jama will largely depend on his Aulyhan clan and a section of the Samawathal, where his deputy hails from. Hajji, on the other hand, counts solely on the votes of his Samawathal clan.Jama garnered 37,000 votes in 2013 while Korane managed 35,000. Shurie, a former high school principal, came a distant third, garnering 8,000 votes.Commentators argue that any candidate who wants to win in August must bring the Samawathal community on board. They are considered the swing vote. This informs the reason why the two leading candidates have chosen their deputies from the Samawathal clan.Jama has opted to stick with Deputy Governor Hussein Abdullahi from the Abdikarim subclan of the Samawathal, while Korane has picked Abdi Dagane from the Rer Mohamed subclan of the wider Samawathal community as his running mate.Pundits say Korane has better chances of winning over the decisive Samawathal vote bloc since his clan is in a political marriage with them.In the negotiated democracy that brought together the Talamuge Alliance, and which was muted in Nairobi one month ago, the Abduwak was given the governor post (Korane) and Woman representative seat (Annab Subow), while the Samawathal was given the Senate seat (Yussuf Haji) and deputy governor post (Dagane).JAMA&rsquo;S DEFENCE OF HIS RECORDThe Aulyhans have also announced their support for Jama&rsquo;s reelection and that they are ready to enter into any political marriage with any other community. They will in return endorse the community&rsquo;s Senate candidate.Governor Jama has on several occasions exuded confidence about being reelected, saying he has initiated several development projects. His rivals say he hasn&rsquo;t done much.In his defence, Jama says his administration has improved the healthcare infrastructure, which culminated in the county being rated as the best health service provider in the country.&ldquo;My administration has worked hard to improve the quality of healthcare in the county, which was at its lowest before we took over. We have also managed to increase the number of health centres. This has subsequently reduced maternal deaths,&ldquo; Jama said.The governor said that for the first time in the history of Kenya, Balambala and Modogashe subcounty hospitals conducted caesarean sections.He added that his administration has built 180 ECDE classrooms in 90 centres and employed 180 teachers in all subcounties.&ldquo;We have managed to build a strong foundation for our children, and we are determined to ensure they all get quality basic education in every part of this county,&rdquo; he said.Jama is, however, facing several corruption cases, including alleged irregular hiring of ambulances from the Kenya Red Cross. He has blamed his political opponents for his woes.&ldquo;My political detractors have completely frustrated me by constantly moving to court so that I don&rsquo;t deliver on my pledges. But despite all these frustrations, I have managed to do a lot for the people of Garissa. I believe they will give me a second term to finish what I have started,&rdquo; Jama said in an earlier interview.KORANE&rsquo;S CLAIMS AGAINST INCUMBENTHis main rival, Korane, has always insisted that he has done virtually nothing to uplift the living standards of Garissa residents and instead, accused the government of being a den of corruption.&ldquo;The main essence of devolution was to ensure development projects are initiated across the county, places that were marginalised for decades. Unfortunately in Garissa, we haven&rsquo;t seen any meaningful development by Jama&rsquo;s administration,&rdquo; Korane said.&ldquo;Instead, what we see is pure looting orchestrated by the governor himself. They are doing this at the expense of the residents, who are yearning for services from the leaders they elected. Residents are now smarter, and they will correct the mistakes they made in 2013 by voting in the right leaders.&rdquo;Garissa is made up of six subcounties &mdash; Garissa Township, Dadaab, Lagdera, Balambala, Fafi and Ijara.According to the IEBC the county had a total of 115,236 voters in 2013.