Jubilee Party and IEBC have agreed to pick a team of six to agree on how the commission will conduct the party nominations.Jubilee secretariat head Raphael Tuju said the ultimate goal is to ensure free and fair nominations."We have agreed that IEBC will give three officers and three from us to look for a common ground on how the&nbsp;nominations&nbsp;will be conducted and then they can give us recommendations on the way forward," he said. Read: Party primaries slotted for April as IEBC reviews timelines ahead of pollsHe was speaking when he hosted a delegation from the IEBC led by chair Wafula Chebukati.&nbsp;Chebukati said the commission will be engaging all stakeholders towards ensuring a free and fair election in August. "We have received a memorandum from Jubilee and discussed the register issue, we will send in a team to work out on the guidelines of how party nominations will be conducted," he said. Tuju said IEBC has assured the party of cleaning the voter register before the August 8 polls. He said this will enable Kenyans&nbsp;to&nbsp; know &nbsp;the specific number of people registered in each county making it easy to monitor votes. "We are delighted that IEBC has been announcing the results of voter registration and they have assured that they are keen on ensuring all goes well," he said. Jubilee secretary general Veronicah Maina said the first meeting will be on February 28 to agree on the details of IEBC's involvement in the nominations.Tuju also castigated the opposition for alleging that Jubilee government is planning on rigging the general elections saying it is a&nbsp;fallacy&nbsp;being spread to Kenyans. "We all know that neither the government nor the opposition can rig an election if at all this was to happen it would be done by an electoral body," he said. "The country should know that we are not in an unholy union with the electoral body," Tuju added. Read:&nbsp; Jubilee MPs hail plans for IEBC to oversee party nominationsHe said if the team recommends for IEBC to conduct the party primaries they will seek for funding from the Treasury and will not be funded by any party. "We have the capacity to run party primaries and the only thing we will have to do is write to Treasury for funding," he said.Read: Anxiety in Jubilee after IEBC says won&rsquo;t oversee Also read: IEBC must not conduct party primaries, KNCHR tells Senate&nbsp;