The government has set aside Sh100 billion for pay rises for civil servants in the proposed 2017-2018 Budget. To the hundreds of thousands of civil servants in Kenya, the proposals are a welcome move. However, a closer look at the proposal reveals that a huge chunk of the increments is targeted at constitutional office holders, the Presidency as well as retired presidents. According to the proposals, the commissioners of the IEBC are set to receive Sh12 million extra pay.Kenya is a developing country experiencing various challenges including famine and an ongoing doctor&rsquo;s national strike that has seen medics withhold their services for almost three months. One then wonders whether the proposed increments, especially with regard to constitutional offices, the Presidency and retired presidents, is tenable or even necessary. And bear in mind that Kenya&rsquo;s current wage bill stands at 55 per cent, meaning that only 45 percent of the revenue collected is left for development purposes.The effect of the proposed increments is that it exacerbates the wage bill, thereby orienting the economy towards consumption instead of investment and production. As such, the monies for service provision and growth are far outweighed by allocations towards payment of salaries.It is safe to say that constitutional office holders, the Presidency and former presidents (an octogenarian and a nonagenarian) have not been out on a limb championing for salary/gratuity increments. There is no urgent or immediate need to placate them with regard to pay. In fact, in March, 2014, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that he and his deputy were taking a 10 per cent pay cut and asked Parliament to consider doing the same. The proposals are therefore befuddling, to say the least.These proposals leave a bad taste in the mouth because the real issues on the minds of Kenyans is how government plans to deal with the recurrent issue of famine that is currently ravaging many regions in Kenya, improve public health and grow the economy.In the last four years, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the State have, and rightly so, lamented that Kenya&rsquo;s wage bill is too high and unsustainable. A contributing factor since 2013 was the creation of new constitutional commissions, the county governments and the increase in the number of representatives in Parliament under the new Constitution.