Two video clips, which generally don't appear to be related in anyway, made rounds on social media this week. In the first video clip, an enraged old man rants about Jubilee government's inaction in protecting the lives and property of the people of Marakwet. He says President Mwai Kibaki, though old and sickly, performed better. He complaints about how residents are being lied to that they are in government, while their people are being killed while the leaders are busy looting and campaigning for 2017. In the other video, a youthful and healthy President Uhuru Kenyatta is doing the Dab dance with the FBI dance group at State House Nairobi. What followed was a backlash on social media against the President under a hashtag #DabOfShame. Social media users felt it was inappropriate for him to be dancing while the doctors' and the lecturers' strikes are unsolved. and the country is being ravaged by drought, among other national crises. For almost half an year now, ranchers and farmers on one side and pastoralists on the other have been engaged in tragic clashes in Laikipia. In Marakwet and the Kerio Valley, the clashes have been ongoing for decades.It is the responsibility of any working government in any stable state to ensure security and safety of its people and their property. That is the baseline. That explains why advanced and sober countries give travel advisories to citizens in areas they feel their lives will or are threatened. It informs why states evacuate their citizens from countries that experience conflicts, epidemics or pandemics.Most importantly, there is a reason why the state enjoys monopoly of power, has the military, the police and other national security agencies under its control. When those agencies fail in their mandate and responsibilities, it is the government that fails.It is the inaction or the lack of political will to deal with these clashes that must be called out.Why lack of political will? Following the Mpeketoni terror attack in June 2014, President Kenyatta in an address to the nation blamed the opposition and the "local political networks" for the strike.That was perplexing! Lamu Governor Issa Timamy was consequently arrested but later released. Later, the militants released a video that showed they were indeed responsible.It is this shifting the blame by those responsible that has resulted in the mess in Laikipia, Marakwet and the Kerio Valley. It actually creates an impression that the government is getting weak and clueless.The clashes in Laikipia have escalated. Thousands of heavily-armed herders are invading conservancies, private properties and smallholdings in one of Kenya&rsquo;s most important wildlife areas, as they search for pasture for their cattle. The few police officers in the area seem overwhelmed, as one of the farmers recently said.Laikipia Farmers Association chairman Martin Evans said the Anti-Stock Theft Unit deployed to handle the situation has been unable to do so, with reports that some had withdrawn after being overwhelmed.Since the start of the year, about 15,000 herders, armed with automatic rifles and driving 140,000 cattle, have left a trail of destruction and chaos in the county. They have indiscriminately killed wildlife. There are fears some conservancies might collapse as donors reduce funding.In this case, however, there are suspected local underlying politics issues. &ldquo;The violence in Laikipia is a case of militant Samburu politicians grabbing land from other ethnic communities ahead of the general election. They are using vast numbers of cattle as a weapon to invade land, hoping to drive out the rightful owners and voters from other parties,&rdquo; a Nanyuki resident told a Star correspondent in November last year.The British government, through its High Commission, has also voiced its concerns. Last year, British High Commissioner Nic Hailey asked politicians to avoid acts and utterances that may cause tension amid efforts to end the violence. Last week, again, the high commission asked the government to address the issue as it denied reports that it had issued a travel ban for its citizens to Laikipia.I must however say that it would be unfair to entirely blame these clashes on the Jubilee government. There is the land issue, which is itself a historical problem. There are allegations that some politicians are inciting locals to drive out the ranchers and take over the land.What is happening is a cumulative result of inaction and marginalisation in those areas by successive governments. Failure to comprehensively carry out disarmament programmes, develop these areas and most importantly to educate the people has contributed to this. To date, government is not visible in these areas, promoting disorder, lawlessness and proliferation of illegal guns.There lacks evidence of progress made or change of tact in controlling or handling the situation in the Kerio Valley, and now in Laikioia, even after the Baragoi, Kapedo and Tana River events.That, again, cannot be traced back to any other entity other than the national government. That is what President Uhuru should dab off, not the dance.