For some time now I have heard this narrative that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are not reading from same script. Political commentators and analysts have implied that the Jubilee Party&rsquo;s slogan &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo; hides the vicious war pitting the two leaders&rsquo; camps. This narrative went a notch higher when Uhuru and his mother Mama Ngina separately visited former President Moi.The media especially focused on the second meeting, which, besides Uhuru, Moi&rsquo;s son Gideon reportedly attended.It is said key players in Ruto&rsquo;s camp hit the roof and questioned why the meeting was held behind his back. After Ruto concluded the mass voter registration campaign in Malindi, he was not to be seen in public for one week. This sparked more speculations on social media, with some arguing he was weighing his options. The media was not invited to cover the two meetings and so it is hard to tell what was discussed.But one understands the cause of suspicion and mistrust in Ruto&rsquo;s camp. Ruto and Moi&rsquo;s family do not see eye to eye. The battle for political supremacy started in earnest after President Moi retired. He reportedly wanted his son Gideon to succeed him as Kalenjin leader, but Ruto thwarted his plans. During the December 27, 2007, general election, Ruto, who was in ODM, proved he was a force to reckon with. His party won most of the seats in the region.The battle between the two would take a nasty turn during the Kericho senator by-election. Gideon and Ruto engaged in a vicious war, with each of their parties &mdash; Kanu and Jubilee &mdash; fielding a candidate. Ruto knew if he lost the election his political career would come tumbling down. He dropped everything to concentrate on this campaign.Though the Jubilee candidate won, one thing was clear: The support he enjoyed had dropped drastically. The margin of victory compared to how the county voted in 2007 told it all. In fact, Kanu alleged the poll had been rigged, but ignored the IEBC&rsquo;s invitation to formally lodge a complaint.Around the same time, another by-election was held &mdash;in Bomet county. The Jubilee candidate lost to Chama Cha Mashinani, which was founded by Governor Issac Rutto. This was another blow to the DP.But to date there is no evidence to suggest that Uhuru and Ruto are embroiled in boardroom wars. Every time these allegations are made, they come out with a strong rebuttal. &ldquo;These false rumours are peddled by the opposition leaders who are not happy with our unity of purpose. Let them stop wasting their time and energy because their ill-advised machinations of trying to divide us will never succeed,&rdquo; they would say.The two were elected into office when they were facing charges of crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court for the 2007-08 post-election violence. Initially, the cases were used to try to drive a wedge between them. The critics, in particular, took advantage of the termination of Uhuru&rsquo;s case to drive a narrative that Ruto was being isolated. Uhuru fought hard to secure his own release, how come he is not employing the same tactics to get Ruto off the hook, they would say.However, Ruto&rsquo;s case was dropped and terminated a few months later. The President maintained that the charges against him and Ruto were politically motivated.Nobody knows what Uhuru, Moi and Gideon discussed. Uhuru&rsquo;s eyes are trained on the August 8 election. He cannot afford to lose. He will not allow the political differences between Ruto and the Mois to derail his reelection.He knows the Mois command significant support in Rift Valley and one can only ignore them at one&rsquo;s own peril. I will not be surprised to hear Uhuru has also reached out to Rutto. Uhuru&rsquo;s track record speaks for itself and hence he deserves a second term. Joseph Mutua Ndonga is a political analyst and blogger.