According to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, 25,095,292 is the number of the potential voting population with identity cards. This figure was arrived at by subtracting the 2,965,944 projected dead voters from the 28,061,236 IDs issued as at November 30, last year. Some 19,588,781 voters are what would be the projected registered voters by February (minus diaspora and prisoners, and the latter are being registered now).This will take account of the approximately 5.2 million voters expected to be added to the voter&rsquo;s register by the IEBC (subject to &ldquo;a proper cleaning and verification process&rdquo;) and given that the voters registered by March 2013 were 14,388,781.Nevertheless, it tells us something fundamental: that there are at least 5.5 million voter potential voters with identity cards that are not registered as voters! And given the tedious, exclusionary and inefficient identity card registration process that obtains in Kenya, this figure could be significantly higher.This figure is especially crucial when one recalls Uhuru Kenyatta was declared President after reportedly scoring 6,173,433 votes to Raila Odinga&rsquo;s 5,340,546. In what is framed as a two-horse race, it is likely that non-registered voters in Kenya collectively represent the third horse in the presidential election contest.Surely this should mean something! Notwithstanding the variegated reasons why such a significantly high number of Kenyans are not registered as voters, one way to cure this would lie with the proposal made by the Independent Review Commission,more famously dubbed the &ldquo;Kriegler Commission&rdquo;:IREC recommends that as soon as possible, the issuance of ID cards be integrated with t&aring;he registration of voters so that when a person requests for one, s/he is automatically entered in the voter register and informed of the location of the polling station where s/he should vote.The Kriegler Commission based this recommendation on the finding that, &ldquo;The continuous registration of voters introduced in 2002 has not worked, as the number of people who register&hellip;is minimal. The available evidence suggests that the solution will not be found in increasing the number of offices&hellip;but rather in a change of system&hellip;The registration system is outrageously expensive and has very low productivity. The permanent solution will involve moving to systems based in other population databases&hellip;&rdquo;Why was this recommendation not implemented? In this context, why is it not part of the discourse, deliberation and debate about how to enhance Kenya&rsquo;s democracy? Do we even care? Or is the sum total of our democratic ambition and electoral imagination exclusively limited to whom between the reigning Jubilee Party on the one hand and, on the other, the opposition NASA will garner more votes this time round?We should care for the very same reasons that the Kriegler Commission highlighted in their 2008 report, which, one suspects, continue to subsist. First, as is still demonstrated by the figures above, we should pay attention because continuous voter registration has not worked. Second, we should care because the system has very low productivity. Third, the system produces low and biased coverage, excluding particularly women and young people. Fourth, there is the question of the lack of controls by the electoral management agency &mdash; in this case the IEBC. On this point, it is noted that the figure for double or more voter registrations was recently reported to be in the region of 128,000. Fifth, we should care because the system is outrageously expensive.Patently, we should care. But do we? Clearly not: Our national conversation indicates that our overriding concern when it comes to elections is if &ldquo;our&rsquo; candidate will win. In fact, this was the essential reason we went into a national convulsion over the last mass voter registration cycle: we were required &ndash;and largely obliged &ndash; to register as voters so that we can express our love for &ldquo;our&rdquo; preferred candidate.Why lie: it has mattered not one iota, for instance, that huge swathes of our country are starving due to the pernicious grip of famine, that the supply of adequate and consumable water has been abandoned to the whimsical vagaries of nature and the mercies of the Almighty, that our abysmal health sector has ground to a faltering halt, that corruption is runaway and economic mismanagement is pervasive and that their proceeds will be most likely be used to fund campaigns, that our education sector is smouldering ruinously, that unemployment has escalated to untenable levels, that our national debt has spiked, and that poverty is rampant.All that has seemingly mattered to us are the political fortunes of Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga in the forthcoming polls. Whereas this presents hypnotic political soap operatic drama, it will never lead to our democratic advancement; rather, it will simply continue to situate us on the exhausting tribalistic treadmill of plutocracy.It is time to reframe Kenya&rsquo;s political logic: currently we contort to the whims of our rulers. Now we need to ensure that our rulers dance to our tune.