ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has assured Kenyans NASA will remain united after a presidential flagbearer is picked.He said the ongoing tension within the coalition over who would be the front-runner should not worry them, as they have agreed to fight together to the end. Mudavadi, who was on a two-day tour of the Coast, said they are also negotiating with other opposition parties, including Kanu and Chama Cha Mashinani, to join NASA to ensure they win the election.Speaking during a rally in Gede on Saturday, he said NASA is the only weapon to send the Jubilee administration home. &ldquo;I formed NASA. Everywhere I went I talked of NASA, others thought I was crazy, today ODM, ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya are together. We are now targeting Mashinani and even Kanu,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.He condemned the Turkana attack on ODM leader Raila Odinga on Friday, saying it was uncalled for.&ldquo;What happened in Turkana should not be witnessed anywhere else in the country. We want peace. Why come with guns to a public rally to disrupt someone from addressing the people?&rsquo;&rsquo; Mudavadi asked.On Friday, about 15 gunmen disrupted Raila&rsquo;s rally in Lokichar, Turkana. The ODM leader was meeting ODM delegates in Katilie ward, when the men began firing.The meeting had to come to an end, forcing Raila to move to another location for safety. Raila escaped unhurt. Residents said the men started throwing stones before the shooting took place. Raila was in Turkana for a three-day visit. Mudavadi called for peaceful campaigns ahead of the August 8 polls. Present at the Gede rally were Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, Nambale MP John Sakwa, ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani and more than 20 aspirants.Mudavadi said Jubilee has failed to deliver to Kenyans and it does not deserve to be given a second term.He also said Jubilee has failed to solve land issues. &ldquo;Under their trademark of deceit and dishonesty, they think they can solve Coast people&rsquo;s desperation by giving them fake land title deeds. Even after the courts said the title deeds are fake, President Uhuru Kenyatta still insists the title deeds are genuine, because he does not believe in the rule of law,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.Earlier, he met aspirants and ANC delegates at Travellers Resort in Malindi. Yesterday, he met leaders and later had rallies in Magarini.