Nyandarua governor aspirant Francis Kimemia has warned sitting governors that jail time awaits them for overseeing unrestricted plunder of public resources.He said that currently, there is a lot of looting and irregular employment going on in the counties, as aspirants look for money for campaigns. &ldquo;These people seem to be unaware that they are heading to jail,&rdquo; Kimemia said on Saturday.Kimemia, also the ICDC board chairman, spoke in Kagunda village, Nyandarua county, where he met part of his campaign team and strategists.He said the government&rsquo;s money must operate on a predictable financial system. Kimemia said most governors have ignored this. &ldquo;They do not follow the laid-down procedures. Instead, they withdraw money from banks and go dispensing cash like oranges and potatoes,&rdquo; he saidKimemia said the main problem with many counties is that they did not put their energies into creating good structures, strategies and systems. They also did not look for qualified people, who have requisite knowledge of how to manage public resources.He said that the Auditor General&rsquo;s report for Nyandarua and other counties is a clear indication of unrestricted misuse of public money. Kimemia said that people must adhere to financial regulations and use public resources for the right purpose, &ldquo;not like pocket money for some leaders&rdquo;. He is seeking the Jubilee Party ticket to run for the county&rsquo;s top seat. Kimemia said if elected he will ensure there is no corruption and that Nyandarua will be a county of the 21st century.In December last year, the Nyandarua county government was accused of spending Sh2 million on a Christmas tree lit in Ol Kalau by Governor Daniel Waithaka. But county communications officer Eliud Miring&rsquo;u said only Sh10, 000 was spent.The allegations of wastage of public resources had caused outrage on social media, with the county being accused of opulence. Controversial blogger Chege Thiari kicked off the debate, posting on the Nyandarua People&rsquo;s Assembly Facebook page.