Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has indicated strongly the party will field a candidate to run against Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho of ODM.Speaking at a rally in Mshomoroni on Sunday, Kalonzo said Jubilee and its candidate Suleiman Shahbal are their &ldquo;greatest enemy&rdquo; in Mombasa.A Wiper candidate will likely divide the Cord/NASA votes, which could give Jubilee an easy victory on August 8, say analysts.But Kalonzo assured Mombasa residents there will be no fallout in Wiper or in Cord. Jubilee, Shahbal our common enemyKalonzo said the most important thing is to ensure Jubilee does not win the governor seat as that would be a big failure for NASA.&ldquo;Our biggest enemy now is Shahbal. I gave him the Wiper ticket in 2013 and honestly, he tried. But decamping to Jubilee is like taking a pig to the mosque in Mombasa,&rdquo; he said.Talks within Wiper have been initiated with a view to finding a governor flagbearer, either secretary general Hassan Omar or treasurer Hezron Awiti.&ldquo;This is friendly fire,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.Wiper members at the rally said they will not accept joint nominations in Mombasa, as urged by ODM leader Raila Odinga.&ldquo;There will be no six-piece voting in Mombasa. Wiper is becoming stronger. If so, Cord will miss out,&rdquo; said Mombasa assembly speaker Thaddeus Rajwayi, who has decamped from ODM to Wiper.Omar and Awiti are both seeking the party&rsquo;s ticket to face Joho and Jubilee&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal.Wiper MPs, officials and supporters urged the two not to fight each other and instead to agree on the best working formula.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m ready to ensure there is no animosity between these two leaders. A solution will soon be found on who will be Wiper&rsquo;s flagbearer in the governor&rsquo;s race,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.Makueni woman representative Rose Museo said, &ldquo;Sarai (Omar) and Awiti are both Kalonzo&rsquo;s children. Things will be good.&rdquo;Wiper activists, supporters and aspirants are now demanding a NASA-like Technical and Strategy Committee be formed to strike a deal on the governor candidate. Wiper HURT BY flagbearer DELAYNyali MP hopeful Simon Adalla said time is almost up and a delay in picking a flagbearer will cost Wiper at the polls.&ldquo;This is hurting our chances. On Sunday there was tension in Kadongo grounds when the two shared a podium with Kalonzo. Kalonzo, however, managed to cool it, but for how long?&rdquo; he asked.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have to wait until May. Let us pick a candidate now so that in case of any fallout, we can convince the aggrieved side not to quit.&rdquo;At the rally, Awiti said Omar is like a son who is trying to fight his own father.&ldquo;We must put our house together. I will unite Wiper. Omar is a soldier, but Mombasa must be our priority,&rdquo; Awiti said.Omar said he may be younger than Awiti, but he represents a critical mass.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be fooled by my age. My capacity to deliver surpasses everyone,&rdquo; he said.Political analysts are divided on an Awiti-Omar combination.Mwakuja Mrombo told the Star, &ldquo;The Omar-Awiti combination is Wiper&rsquo;s winning formula to wrest power from ODM in Mombasa.&rdquo;However, Awiti will have to swallow his pride and be Omar&rsquo;s running mate to give the team a Coastal look, he said. Communities to determine winnerBut University of Nairobi analyst Philip Kaulu said the combination will not guarantee a win for Wiper because &ldquo;Omar is not on the ground&rdquo;.&ldquo;Omar is vocal in the media but his presence on the ground is not felt as much as Awiti&rsquo;s. But this is where the Kalonzo factor comes in. He will marshal the Kamba vote,&rdquo; he said.Kaulu said the upcountry votes will be a factor if Awiti becomes the candidate and Omar his running mate.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t see Omar accepting that arrangement. Awiti has invested a lot of energy and resources in the campaigns and it will be difficult for him to accept being a running mate,&rdquo; he said.The outcome-determining tribes in Mombasa politics are the Mijikenda and Kamba. A combined force of other non-native tribes can also influence the political direction the county will take in the polls.Wiper has the Kamba support. Awiti, a Luo, enjoys other non-native community backing. Omar can rope in Swahili votes.