Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) league champions Equity Bank Hawks have three players in the provisional national women&rsquo;s team unveiled yesterday ahead of the upcoming Fiba Afrobasket Zone V qualifiers slated for March 12-18 in Cairo, Egypt.The 2016 KBF women&rsquo;s league Most Valuable Player Mercy Wanyama, blazing shooting guard Hilda Indasi and the ever-green centre Samba Mjomba are the only players from Hawks in the national squad. The three possess crucial characteristics which the team will need if they are to progress. The combination of Wanyama&rsquo;s spirit of a champion, Indasi&rsquo;s shooting prowess and Mjomba&rsquo;s enterprising shape form a great combination.They join five players from former title holders Kenya Ports Authority including Zone V Club Championship MVP Celine Okumu, Natalie Akinyi, Betty Kananu, Felmas Adhiambo and Yvonne Akinyi.Other key inclusions in the line-up are Rose Ouma (Qatar), shooting guards Grace Wanjiku (Uganda), Georgia Adhiambo (USIU) and Western Delight&rsquo;s Catherine Akinyi. Forward Lucy Mwachuma of Eagle Wings, post players Purity Adhiambo and Vilma Achieng both plying their trade in Uganda. Strathmore University&rsquo;s Susan Manya, Mollette Achieng, and Kenyatta University pair of Beryl Akoth and Rita Anyango complete the team. The lineup named combines a wealth of experience and youthful talent.Head coach David Maina, who is still feeling the cool blow of joy after winning the club&rsquo;s premier championships&rsquo; gong with Equity Bank Hawks, is keen to reproduce the excellent performances in Cairo.&ldquo;We are preparing to compete and not to participate. We are going to play for Kenya, and reclaim our glory in Zone V and press on to pursue continental crown. The players are fit given most of them have just concluded the 2016 season in the playoffs this month,&rdquo; noted Maina, who guided Equity Bank Hawks to their maiden premiership title a fortnight ago.The tournament will qualify one team to the FIBA- Africa Women&rsquo;s AfroBasket show slated for Mali September 15-24.&ldquo;There has to be continuity in the team, hence the mixture. We have to plan for posterity too, as we chase for silverware now,&rdquo; said Maina who guided the Kenya women&rsquo;s U-19 side in 2008 to winning gold in the Zone V title in Kampala.The girls will have to ward off strong opposition from neighbours Uganda and hosts Egypt at the tournament. Uganda beat Kenya in the last qualification tourney in 2015 in their backyard to proceed to the continental basketball extravaganza in Cameroon.Kenya last played in the continental women&rsquo;s Afrobasket in 2013 and the best performance ever for the country was silver medal in 1993. Maina said he is determined to guide the team to the top basketball side in Africa.