From my comfortable bed I watched the elephants at the salt lick, mesmerised by these gentle rumbling giants, standing protectively around their young. My room was open-sided to welcome the starlight, the sounds of the wild and now the morning sun. A tiny dik-dik weaved through the surrounding bushes and a cackling go-away bird flapped into a nearby tree. In the far distance Mt Kenya was becoming absorbed by morning cloud. Peace settled into my soul.Morning ablutions were a river-water bucket-shower, a container of water and tin mug for use at the wash basin. The district's two rivers are always under pressure and a reliable water supply unpredictable, so this was a true eco camp with guests encouraged to be responsible about water use. There was clean filtered rainwater for drinking - no plastic bottles - and power was solar. Tucked away around the corner was a pit-latrine, blending in with the surrounding vegetation as subtly as the rest of Suiyan Soul. The camp, tucked into a secluded spot that overlooks a natural salt lick and spring, was thoughtfully and artistically created by Anne Powys, a Kenyan whose family history on this Laikipia ranch reaches back through generations.Anne has always worked in harmony with local communities. The roofs were thatched with sedge grass from the nearby Uaso Narok river; local women selling this grass instead of burning it, giving them an income. The camp was cement-free; walls made of local stones, kept together with a mix of river-sand and clay from termite mounds.Breakfast at Suiyan.Photo Juliet BarnesAll the woodwork, bowing and swirling around the mess and each uniquely designed room, derived from dead trees destroyed by elephant. The huge stones of the floor were created billions of years ago by upheavals in the earth, their surfaces shaped rumpled and rippled by water over stretches of time too vast to conceive of. Furniture was created out of cedar fence posts, dating back to former days when animals were intruders - although by this time thanks to Anne's inspiration and her father Gilfrid's cooperation, cattle ranching and conservation thrived side by side.A director in Anne's business, Dr Dino Martins, is an entomologist and Anne an expert on indigenous plants, so between them they are remarkably knowledgeable about Kenya's insects, flowers, shrubs and trees, as well as the birds and animals. They have taught many safari guides that there's more to Kenyan safaris than ticking off the the big five, and produced booklets highlighting plants for human and animal health, outlining the symbiotic relationship between our mind-boggling variety of insects and plants, all part of the miraculous greater ecosystems we are so privileged to have in Kenya.Wild dogs at Suiyan.Photo Juliet BarnesAs a travel writer I've stayed in many wonderful camps and lodges in Kenya. Other places I've visited - including Australia, North America, Europe, India and Bhutan - have failed to show me anything that even comes close to Kenya's incredible wildlife and ornithological experiences, not to mention that special something Kenyans have when it comes to hospitality. After travelling far and wide, Suiyan Soul remained top among my favourites, a place I always took visitors and recommended to everyone.On this recent visit, the ongoing drought had been forcing nomadic pastoralists to go far to find grazing. Many surrounding ranches and conservancies had already been invaded and denuded. But it was more than just impoverished tribesmen with vast herds of hungry animals: Mugie Conservancy and Kifuku Ranch were in lockdown because these invaders were heavily armed, seemingly intent on driving out the legal owners; stealing cattle, shooting at people, killing and maiming wild animals. Near Rumiruti a Kikuyu farmer had been shot and wheelchair-bound, his farm overrun by intruders as soon as he left.Relaxing place at Suiyan.Photo Juliet BarnesPeople at home and beyond had begun talking about this being more than drought-driven, mentioning politicians, citing their insatiable greed for land and power, asking who was funding and inciting these criminal activities. The current lack of law and order was being compared to that which followed Kenya's disputed elections in 2007. Meanwhile not much was being reported about Laikipia's small-scale farmers who were losing their entire livelihoods.Somehow Anne remained positive, continuing to visit local tribal elders with whom she has great rapport thanks to her untiring work with local communities. Suiyan ranch was allowing their livestock to use the land while requesting they respect the area around the camp. Much of Laikipia's wildlife - including many endangered species - was congregating here for food and refuge. The evening before we'd watched wild dogs - the most endangered predator in Africa - across the river, their pups gambolling in the evening sun. We'd seen plenty of other rare creatures - graceful kudu, huge herds of reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, Jackson's hartebeeste, gerenuk and beisa oryx. On the way home we watched elephants slaking their thirst in the river. Anne taught us how to determine their sex &ndash; it's all down to the shape of the forehead. They eat selectively too, self-medicating when necessary, choosing medicinal plants which local people also use. We could hear the cough of the leopard as we started our dinner beneath the stars. That night I heard lion.The following morning we walked with busy-savvy Samson. Augur buzzards soared overhead; a black-shouldered kite perched on a nearby bush. We learned about animal spoors, plants and insects. Buffalo weavers flashed scarlet rumps and hornbills eyed us as we tiptoed past a browsing elephant, keeping downwind. We climbed a rocky kopje so we could see the river below. Samson pointed out orange-leafed crotons &ndash; a natural insecticide for the animals. Then we returned to Suiyan Soul, where we enjoyed breakfast to the background music of D'arnaud's barbet and the slaty boubou, served underneath a large Acacia tree. A red-headed weaver joined a rufous chatterer, Hildebrandt's starlings, and flocks of weavers feasting on the bird table - in between trying to steal our fruit. A couple of playful ground squirrels joined in. In the distance, elephants were filing down to the spring.Hardly surprising that Suiyan Soul had been full since Christmas and was booked up for February.A week after we left, Suiyan Soul was no more. Herdsmen, skeleton-thin cows, and rapacious sheep and goats, had arrived in their tens of thousands. A handful of local government defence forces had attempted to keep them away from Suiyan Soul. They were shot at, fired back in defence, and a herdsman was accidentally shot. Anne managed to evacuate her remaining client and staff - a large party of American clients had fortunately just left. The camp staff - who are like family to Anne - stood on a nearby hill and watched 100 boda boda motorcycles arrive. The evening air was rent with gunfire, the sunset obscured by smoke as the invaders set fire to the sedge-grass roofs, having looted what they fancied - replaceable items like bedspreads and mattresses; burning what they didn't - precious memorabilia including hand-written books filled with guests' special stories. As the relentless destruction continued over the next few days, Anne boosted morale amongst her staff, in between attempting to save a few items.Suiyan camp creator Ann Powys.Photo Juliet BarnesA Kenyan friend based in Northern Laikipia told of attempts to talk to Samburu elders while being shot at 'by boys as young as fifteen'. The problem of overstocking has simply not been addressed by the government, he pointed out. Good rainfall isn't predicted before April and meanwhile, where will these pastoralists go when they have denuded Laikipia? Mt Kenya? Nyandarua? The government will have to do something, he added, 'But... it's election year.'Setting aside history and matters of race, or Kenya's bottomless ravine between rich and poor, there's a question on many people's lips as they continue to pray for the government to take firm action: After the smoke has settled, the grass, wildlife and visitors gone, who has gained?It's heartbreaking to imagine Suiyan Soul right now. A vast cattle boma. Any surviving wild creatures fleeing. I close my mind against the desert that it - indeed much of northern Kenya - could become. Instead I try to imagine alternatives to overstocking and overgrazing. Alternatives that benefit Kenya's pastoralists and offer them a future. Gradually, like a rainbow forming, I can see a new Suiyan Soul - and other similar places that also employ many people, pull in tourists and boost the Kenyan economy. The vegetation returns and the wildlife follows. Peace settles in again. And as my vision fades, I see the truth. I know which option Kenyans truly want, and this gives me hope that ahead of us lies the Kenya we must manifest for the future benefit of us all.