Leading Japanese Pharmaceutical Company Rohto Mentholatum (K) Limited has appointed former Miss World Kenya (2015) Ms. Charity Mwangi as the brand ambassador for Mentholatum Acnes, a leading brand in skincare. Mwangi becomes the new face of the Mentholatum Acnes and will champion the brand’s marketing and social responsibility activities across Kenya. “I am excited to get this opportunity to champion this brand since it gives me a chance to encourage and inspire young girls into success using my story,” Ms. Mwangi said. “The Mentholatum Acnes brand provides a platform through which I can reach out to as many young women and guide them on many aspects of life, drawing from my experience as a beauty queen and as an entrepreneur,” she added. Her appointment comes only a couple of months after the company launched its Kenyan subsidiary - RohtoMenthlatum Kenya Limited - and announced plans to put up a factory within the next five years. The former Miss World Kenya is a successful entrepreneur, born and raised in Kiambu. She is a graduate of Kenyatta Univeristy, where she studied Agricultural Resource Management. “The reality of acne can be uncomfortable and even painful. It leaves scars and destroys a girl’s confidence, eventually hampering career progression and growth, “ opined Ms. Mwangi. According to dermatological experts, Acne/pimples occur when sebaceous glands become overactive and produce too much sebum (an oily substance that keeps skin from drying out). Excessive sebum together with dead cells can block the skin pores and create a perfect environment for acne bacteria multiplication to cause inflamed and pus-filled pimples. Common areas affected by acne include the face, neck, chest, shoulders, and back. Acne is more common among teenagers but it can also occur during adulthood. “Most people have had to deal with acne at some point in life. The mental part of dealing with acne is something many people can relate to, and in most cases leads to low levels of confidence,”remarked Ms. Fumiko Akojima, the company's Kenya managing director. “We want our products to make a positive impact in the lives of our customers. We have invested heavily in Research and Development and we are focused on ensuring the wellbeing of our customers, “ Ms. Akojima noted. These developments come even as the Kenyan cosmetics market is growing rapidly with latest Euromonitor figures valuing it at Sh100 billion; attributed to a growing middle class with increasing disposable incomes.