National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has said drought and insecurity have slowed voter registration in Kerio Valley and other regions.He said many people in the nomadic communities have been displaced from their homes, making it difficult for IEBC officials to reach them.&ldquo;We have seen the situation is critical and the government is implementing intervention programmes. We urge the communities in those regions to register as voters,&rdquo; Rotich said.He spoke in Eldoret town after a meeting with opinion leaders from Elgeyo Marakwet on voter registration. Rotich was with Trade PS Chris Kiptoo.He said many youths want to register as voters but do not have IDs, but the government is speeding up issuance.Parts of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo, hard-hit by famine and clashes, have recorded very low turnout. Rotich said the government is working with counties to deliver food to the affected families.&ldquo;Security matters are being tackled effectively and we will definitely reach all those affected,&rdquo; he said. Rotich denied claims that those being given food aid are being required to register as voters first.The state has mobilised top civil servants in the North Rift to mobilise residents to register as voters, among them Cabinet Secretaries, PSs and parastatal heads.Two weeks ago, Deputy President William Ruto spent a week in the region mobilising residents to register, but turnout remains low.Ruto&rsquo;s Uasin Gishu home county is performing below expectation in the registration. Only 37,050 new voters were registered in the first two weeks, against a target of 200,000.Governor Jackson Mandago and Jubilee aspirants have said they will meet the target before the last day of registration &ndash; February 14.&ldquo;We are on the ground and within the remaining days, more people will come out to register,&rdquo; he said. Sources say Ruto and the Jubilee leaders are worried that the low turnout is causing jitters within the ruling coalition. The DP met chiefs and village elders to urge them to help mobilise residents, but the impact of the meeting is yet to be seen. IEBC coordinator Bilha Kiptugen says they are targeting more than 700,000 new voters in the six counties.In the first two weeks Elgeyo Marakwet registered 12,896, Nandi had 26,381, Trans Nzoia 28,758, West Pokot 16, 326 and Turkana 15,326. The figures indicate less than 40 per cent of the target.Top civil servants have also been deployed by Jubilee to help mobilise residents to register as voters.