The ODM party has opposed the intended supervision of Jubilee Party nominations by the IEBC saying it is unconstitutional. In a statement dispatched on Saturday by ODM secretary for political affairs Opiyo Wandayi, the party said its opposition is premised on three grounds.One, that IEBC is the constitutionally mandated arbiter in disputes that may arise from internal party activities like nominations and can therefore not be party to such activities.[VIDEO] Jubilee hosts Chebukati, IEBC agree to pick team for party nominationsWandayi noted that this mandate as is spelled out in Article 88 of the Constitution &lsquo;cannot be donated&rsquo; to a third party under any circumstances. &ldquo;The IEBC cannot therefore be expected to sit in arbitration over disputes that may arise from a party nomination exercise that it has itself presided over,&rdquo; he said.The Jubilee party has stated that the intention to use the IEBC to oversee its party primaries is a show of internal party democracy in readiness for the forthcoming elections. Read: Jubilee MPs hail plans for IEBC to oversee party nominationsAlso read: IEBC must not conduct party primaries, KNCHR tells SenateThe other concern, Wandayi noted, was that the electoral body&rsquo;s supervision of Jubilee Party primaries would amount to public funds being expended at the public's expense. This, he said, contravenes a court ruling that barred funding of individual political party nominations from the ex-chequer. &ldquo;For Jubilee to insist on raiding public coffers to finance its nominations is not only illegal but also utterly insensitive, particularly in view of the current harsh economic environment that the Kenyan public has been subjected to as a result of Jubilee's own failed policies,&rdquo; Wandayi said. The Ugunja MP further said IEBC&rsquo;s involvement in Jubilee internal activities would affect its capacity to meet key electoral timelines ahead of the August 8 polls. He said as things stand, the electoral body is already struggling to meet key timelines that are already behind schedule ahead of the 2017 general elections. &ldquo;The last thing it needs is a distraction in the form of predictably messy party nominations by an outfit with no known functioning structures such as Jubilee,&rdquo; Wandayi said. He said the elections oversight body risks losing its credibility if it enjoins itself in internal party affairs of the ruling coalition. &ldquo;In order to safeguard its reputation, the Chebukati team must repudiate the evil Jubilee overtures,&rdquo; Wandayi said. Related story: Anxiety in Jubilee after IEBC says won&rsquo;t oversee primaries