A lot of uneducated speculation rent the air just before and even after NASA was officially unveiled yesterday. I say uneducated because one newspaper had the audacity of selling a banner headline detailing a non-existent &ldquo;power-sharing&rdquo; agreement.I can understand the anxiety that leads to such gross mistakes. NASA has gripped the country with great expectations. The media anti-climax after weeks of hype since the Bomas dance routine was self-inflicted.Main story: NASA team retreats to hammer out rules on joint presidential candidateThe media put the cart before the horse by hyping some mythical &ldquo;power-sharing and naming of a presidential candidate&rdquo;, despite warnings that the partner parties were working only on an agreement. A look at the Political Parties&rsquo; Act and the Election Laws would have warned the media not to exaggerate.When NASA founder and ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi first pronounced the name the National Super Alliance and asked for its Kiswahili translation (Muungano Maluum) at Lango Mbaya Church in Malindi on a hot Sunday, October 9, 2016, not many paid attention to a political armada that had been gathering quietly over time. They only saw a silhouette of its antenna and, as Mudavadi, in a moment of self-deprecation, recalled yesterday, &ldquo;Cartoonists turned against me and caricatured me as a lone madman speaking to himself&rdquo;.However, there was a common denominator threading through the media hype, informed by a desire by Jubilee detractors to control and scatter the NASA agenda after they stumbled on a Muungano Maalum that, like an army of ants, had eaten unnoticed into Kenya&rsquo;s body politic from the inside out, without obvious warning but with potentially devastating impact.So did NASA shoot itself in the foot by not rushing to name its candidate? The answer is yes and no. Public anticipation whipped up by media spin expected naming. The same great expectations had been heightened during the Bomas get-together. However, the NASA team smartly avoided this trap. The information management was superb when it kept on-message &ndash; that the select National Coordinating Committee was intent only on a Coalition Agreement.The suspense NASA is playing with is both deliberate and also governed by law. NASA has no obligation to name its candidate until the May deadline. By signing to register NASA as a coalition, contrary to doomsday prophets, this means none of them dares walkout as a deserter.They will arrive at the NASA presidential candidate by consensus, as per the Agreement.ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's spokesman