When opposition leader Raila Odinga declared at the beginning of the mass voter registration on January 15 that it will determine the results of the August 8 general election, many thought it was a joke.Those in Jubilee, the men and women sitting pretty in the ivory tower, laughed off the remark as a mere political orotundity. They bragged that they have the tyranny of numbers and will hand the opposition a humiliating defeat.Some even said the registration was inconsequential to the Jubilee Party, as they were already assured of a second term, with or without the exercise. But alas, things are changing day and night, in the words of the popular Bungoma Ridhika Boys Band hit Bindu Bichenjanga (Things are Changing).With the final figures released by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Tuesday, the battle lines have been drawn. The team that once boasted of numbers is now in panic mode.A sober analysis of the figures puts NASA ahead with 7,797,049 against Jubilee&rsquo;s 7,203,214. The so-called swing-vote counties of Trans Nzoia, Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu, Narok and Kajiado have a total of 1,526,121 registered voters. Counties in the former Northeastern province, Garissa, Mandera and Wajir have 480,754 registered voters while Nairobi has 2,286,335.With the new wind of change sweeping across the country, NASA will be the biggest beneficiary of the swing vote, as those counties are naturally, and without persuasion, leaning towards the new opposition unity. The National Super Alliance has all it takes to send shock waves in the vertebrae of the Jubilee administration.They (Jubilee) are embroiled in politics of "we have the numbers" as Kenyans continue to plot how to send them home.Politics aside, Kenya needs change. Kenyans want a government that will make them think and hope and not a government that is all about those in power and not those who took them to power.The 2013 tyranny of numbers fallacy was created to prepare Kenyans for massive rigging of the presidential vote. And through their spin master Mutahi Ngunyi, they were successful. But this year, Kenyans, particularly opposition supporters, have no time for such fallacies. They are prepared to cast their votes and guard them. I'm not trying to challenge the wisdom and the right of the people of Kiambu county to list as voters in large numbers. It is always good to have as many people as possible registering to vote. But how does one explain this: In the 2009 census report, Kiambu posted 1,623,282 as its population, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, which carried out the census. Today, it has 1,373,594 registered voters. This means that the population of underage people in Kiambu is 249,688. It is not possible to have the number of adults in any geographical region surpassing that of children. A proper demographic study needs to be carried out in this special county.A thorough audit of the voter's register also needs to be done to ensure no dead voter takes part in the election as did two million dead voters in 2013. Be that as it may, the change of guard is inevitable. By close of business on August 8, Kenyans shall have a new Commander-In-Chief-elect who will steer Kenya to greater heights of sociopolitical and economic prosperity. That will be the turning point for Kenya; and the struggle for the last liberation of the country will have come to an end.The writer is ODM director of communications. @Etalephilip