The three brothers who were murdered and their bodies dumped in Kamae Forest, Thika, were buried on Wednesday in Sachang&rsquo;wan.They were Daniel Ikenye, 22, Mwai Ndirangu, 31, and Paul Ndirangu, 26.Ikenye&rsquo;s widow did not attend the funeral as she was in labour. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s unfortunate that the widow of Ikenye could not come and mourn her husband. She is due to deliver any time,&rdquo; family spokesman David Njenga said.Francis Kariuki, a cousin of the slain brothers, was killed alongside the three. He was buried in Mau Summit on Wednesday.Another cousin, only identified as Patrick, was also found dead in the forest. He is yet to be buried. A weeping Manase Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a said his sons left home on January 18 to register as voters, but they did not return. &ldquo;Their mobile phones had been switched off. We decided to check at the voter registration centre, but we found out they had not registered. They had left home at 8am,&rdquo; he said. Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a said someone called the family, identified himself as a member of the outlawed Mungiki sect and demanded Sh500,000 ransom.The family was a victim of the 2007-08 post-election violence. Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a said after the state compensated them, they bought land and built a three-roomed house in Barnabas in the outskirts of Nakuru town. &ldquo;In 2014, I had a dispute with a stranger who invaded my 50 by 100 plot in Njoro. I reported the matter to the Nakuru CID office after my plot was sold without my knowledge. I cannot, however, link it to my sons&rsquo; killings,&rdquo; he said.The family said they have given the report of their independent postmortem to a human rights group for further investigations.Murder most foulThe report seen by the Star, shows the men were tortured and choked to death. They were also beaten with blunt objects and acid poured on their bodies. &ldquo;They were not shot as there was no bullet in their bodies. They were chocked using polythene paper, their hands and legs tied, their heads hit with blunt objects and their eyes gouged out,&rdquo; Njenga said. &ldquo;Kariuki&rsquo;s head, neck and facial skin were heavily corroded,&rdquo; the report reads.The Nakuru Human Rights Network boss David Kuria said they will seek justice for the men. &ldquo;We have approached other groups, including IMLU, and taken the specimens to government laboratory to find out the chemical that was poured on them,&rdquo; Kuria said. &ldquo;They could have died from inhaling the chemical, strangled or suffocated,&rdquo; Kuria said. He said 15 people have gone missing in Nakuru since last year.A special team of homicide experts from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has taken over investigations.DCI director Ndegwa Muhoro said the team is under firm instructions to ensure those behind the killings are arrested and prosecuted.The burial was attended by politicians, including Nakuru Deputy Governor Joseph Ruto, Molo MP Jacob Macharia and woman representative Mary Mbugua.They urged the government to swiftly investigate the killings. &ldquo;The young men were tortured. We condemn such a heinous act,&rdquo; Ruto said.