Nairobi Gymkhana lost by six wickets to host Stray Lions in the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 match at Peponi on Sunday.Gymkhana made a mess of themselves as they lost eight wickets for 42 runs on their way to the slump.Sitting comfortable at 25 for 1 after 4.3 overs, the visitors went on to drop to 34 for 6 after 13.3 overs before finally ending up on 67 for 9, thanks to Maurice Odumbe and Shem Obado&rsquo;s spins.Had there not been a healthy seventh wicket of 15 runs between skipper Karan Kaul, who top scored with an unbeaten 33, Akhil Boddu and an eight-wicket stand of 17 runs between Kaul and Vinit Shikotra, the total could have been an embarrassing one. Kaul faced 44 balls in an inning that had five ducks and only one other batsman Abdul Najmi (12), scoring double digits. Gymkhana seemed to have had a good start on a turning wicket when 25 runs was put on in 4.3 overs off seam bowlers.But when Obado was introduced, Stray Lions realised what spin can do and they didn&rsquo;t look back as they went on to spin the visitors, posting 42 runs for 8 wickets.Kaul observed that the batsmen failed to apply themselves well and needed to improve. &ldquo;In cricket you are always going to face many tests and I think the guys failed to apply themselves well,&rdquo; he noted. Despite the score, Gymkhana bowlers derailed Stray Lions by picking up wickets regularly.They began by removing Roger Mukasa with the scores at 10 after 2.1 overs. They got the second in the eighth over when Abraham Vadada was run out on 20 to leave the hosts on 41 for 2. Jay Mehta (22) scored the winning runs for the home team.At Eastleigh, Kanbis batsmen also endured a bad day with the bat when they were bowled out for 81 runs by Swamibapa. Swamibapa had an easy time in the chase, reaching the set target in 13.1 overs with seven wickets in hand. Aging Lameck Onyango was the star of the match once again for Swamibapa, claiming 3 for 18 as the home team struggled.Spinners Rajesh Kahar and Saumil Patel also showed superb control in a strong windy afternoon, taking two wickets each. Kahar made unbeaten 31 and Maurice Ouma added 22 as the defending champions cruised to victory. At Cutchi Leva, the hosts beat Sikh Union by one wicket to register their second win.Needing four runs to win off last ball in their pursuit for 112 runs, the home team managed to hand their visitors a second loss in three matches.Kongonis were also victorious when they beat bottom-placed Ruaraka by three wickets. The home side had posted 124 for 8.