The reign of drug lords and the era of selling drugs in Kenya is over, expect the unexpected, President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned.Speaking in Likoni yesterday, Uhuru hinted at much more decisive and muscular tactics to rid the Coast of drug lords and save addicts and lives.He spoke two days after the extradition of the Akasha brothers and two others to the US to face drug-trafficking charges.&ldquo;Time is over for those who have wreaked havoc through drugs. Expect more of what we have started,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&nbsp;This is not the first time the President is talking tough.On August 27, 2015, the President declared announced an immediate and ruthless crackdown on drugs trafficking and use at the Coast. No big fish would be spared, no crooked cops tolerated, he pledged. Not much happened in terms of arrests. Small fish.&nbsp;A couple of drugs ships were blown up in a big show, one in direct violation of a court order.A year and a half later, maybe things are changing.Uhuru said the police methods will be so ruthless that drug kingpins and smugglers will be forced to flee Kenya. &ldquo;Let them know they will have to look for other countries to trade [drug business],&rdquo; he said.The President&rsquo;s announcement was met with cheers from residents of Likoni, the consituency said to have the highest number of drug addicts in Mombasa.About 100,000 youth in the county are said to be addicts.&ldquo;Mombasa will no longer be a drug hub for those selling drugs to destroy our children. We shall take action and arrest them, not the small fish,&rdquo; he said.&nbsp;&ldquo;We cannot have people walking around, threatening others with drugs wealth and think they will walk scot-free. &hellip; don&rsquo;t think your money will be used to kill others.&rdquo;Uhuru said&nbsp; Mombasa, which had been turned into a drugs capital, will no longer be the base of drug barons in Kenya.&nbsp;Two days ago Kenyan and US agents arrested Baktash Akasha, Ibrahim Akasha, Gulam Hussein and Vijaygiri Goswami. They were extradited to the&nbsp; US.On August 29, 2014, Uhuru boarded a Kenya Air Force chopper and oversaw the explosion off Mombasa of a ship laden with Sh1.3 billion heroin.A year later a luxury yacht and its heroin cargo were also blown up off the Coast.MAKONDES GET IDSSpeaking in Kwale when he issued IDs to the Makonde community, the President criticised youth attacking police stations. He also denounced the&nbsp; Mombasa Republican Council that campaigned to have Coast secede from Kenya.Such efforts will be met by fire as the national security cannot be compromised by a few individuals, Uhuru said.&ldquo;We have more firearms than what you have. If you attack a police station and other facilities, you are only destroying the economy of Kwale,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&nbsp;On the eve of the 2013 general election, the MRC attacked a police station in Changamwe and killed an officer.&nbsp;Uhuru said his government has strived to settle landless people by issuing title deeds.&ldquo;There is no government in the history of this country that has issued the number of land documents as ours,&rdquo; he said. Makonde chairman Thomas Nguli thanked the state for identification cards.&nbsp;He pleaded with the government to ensure they have jobs and land. Nguli also asked the President to listen to other stateless people, including the Pemba.&nbsp;POPULARISING JUBILEELunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said the region is supporting the government ahead of the August election. The MP asked Uhuru to consider registering the more than 6,000 stateless people from Pemba, Tanzania, who live in Lunga Lunga. &nbsp;Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima criticised the opposition for his continued criticism of the government, even though it is delivering.&ldquo;Since I was young these people did not have IDs, but now you have given them. We must understand that Digo land is not an ODM zone anymore,&rdquo; Mwahima said.Kinango MP Gonzi Rai said the opposition has continued accusing the government about land problems but failed to address them while they were in government. &ldquo;They only thing they do is criticise, but Jubilee is addressing the land issue by issuing title deeds to residents, unlike them,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;We are not looking for a President this August, because we have him already. The only election we are waiting for is 2022. Let us not beat around the bush,&rdquo; Rai said.Kwale woman representative Zainab Chidzuga said giving IDs to the Makonde is a step towards development. She took on the opposition leaders, saying they have been in leadership but done nothing for the youth, women and elders, as Jubilee has done.Chidzuga said Kwale supports Jubilee and urged residents to vote for Uhuru in large numbers.Uhuru directed Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery to ensure Makonde are employed in Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Police and in the national government.Earlier at State House, Mombasa, the President received Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana, who had defected from ODM to the Jubilee Party.