The 22-year-old Engineering student said to have been killed by her brother in a fight over a bowl of cereal was buried yesterday in a funeral attended by Kiambu politicians.Grace Nduta was buried at the family home in Gatundu. Hundreds of mourners braved the scorching sun at the final journey of the fourth&ndash;year JKUAT student.Speaker after speaker eulogised Nduta as a hardworking and charming girl.Elizaphan Mwaura and Agnes Wanjiru during the burial of their daughter Grace Nduta in Kiambu yesterday/ MONICAH MWANGICharles Kibe, the first-born son in the family, faces years in prison if found guilty of killing his sister.The 24-year-old Bachelor of Commerce graduate is in police custody and will be charged on Monday with murder.Kibe was absent at the funeral. None of the speaker, including his father and mother, made any reference to him.Kibe has been in police custody since Thursday when he was discharged from the hospital, where he was treated for attempted suicide. None of his relatives have visited him since he was held at the police station.Florence Waithera gets emotional during the burial of her sister Grace Nduta, a JKUAT student who was killed by her brother. Photo/Monicah MwangiThe prosecution has recorded statements from five people who will be lined up as witnesses to testify against Kibe. They include police officers and his parents.Nduta&rsquo;s mother spoke for the first time yesterday. In an emotional message read on her behalf by a family friend, Agnes Wanjiru recounted the treasured moments with the daughter during family outings. &ldquo;Your love, charm, confidence, compassion and hospitality will always shine in us,&rdquo; she said.The parents sat next to each other during the burial. Dressed in black suit and a white tie, the girl&rsquo;s father put on a brave face even as his wife was overcome by emotion.Nduta&rsquo;s body was discovered on February 2, seven days after she was reported missing from her parents&rsquo; home in Kahawa Sukari estate. Parts of her severed body were recovered littered in a bush in a Juja farm. More parts were found in a bucket in the family house in Kahawa Sukari and others in a pit latrine.Read:Weetabix row linked to murder of JKUAT girlThe casket carrying the remains of Grace Nduta a JKUAT student who was allegedly killed by her brother during burial in Gatundu on Monday. Photo/Monicah Mwangi