The Monetary Policy Committee this week retained the Central Bank Rate at 10 per cent for the second sitting after lowering it from 10.50 per cent in September last year. Since the capping of interest rates around the CBR, the MPC has become the nerve centre of the banking industry. The capping law limits interest on loans to a maximum of four per cent above the CBR, and interest on deposits to a minimum of 70 per cent of the same rate. The convention pricing of loans requires the review of the risk of a client and determining the risk premium for the level of risk. This risk premium is then loaded to the base or reference rate. While banks may continue with this pricing model, the law limits the amount of risk premium that can be loaded on the base rate. The result is the possibility of cutting off lending to any clients whose risk premium is above the cap. This action would however come at the cost of business growth as the number of customers reduces. The CBK had raised concerns that capping interest rates could have adverse consequences. These include undermining the effectiveness of the monetary policy transmission, inefficiencies in the credit market, credit rationing and promotion of informal lending channels. In their recent release, the MPC noted that available data is inconclusive for assessing the impact of the capping of interest rates. This means the negative consequences are not evident yet. It also points to the need for banks to review their business models to enhance resilience of their operations in the new environment. In short, the message is that the capping of interest rates is here for more than the short term. The IMF recently completed a country performance review and raised their concern on interest rate caps. Their concern was that the controls are likely to weigh-in on overall economic growth by reducing access to credit. They also pointed out the reduced profitability of the banking sector, and the complications posed to monetary policy. Their recommendation was that it is essential to remove the caps while taking the steps to prevent predatory lending and increase competition and transparency of the banking sector. On the positive side, IMF noted the adverse effects of the controls were manageable in the near term, but a potentially risk to financial stability. Lacking in the IMF report were suggestions on how to prevent predatory lending, which was at the centre of the interest rate capping. In fact, this was the sole motivation of capping interest rates and a viable alternative remains elusive. Going forward, success may require recognising the reduced price of risk, in terms of lower margins and innovating ways of managing the cost of operations. This will also lay the foundation for a possible removal of the controls in future.