General Service Unit have bowed out of the next month&rsquo;s men&rsquo;s African Club Championship in Tunis, Tunisia.GSU alongside their bitter rivals and reigning Kenya Volleyball Federation national league champions, Kenya Prisons, who have been regulars in the annual event were scheduled to represent the nation in the 10-day show, set for March 17- 27.The side, coached by Gideon Tarus, finished in 17th during the last edition, which attracted 24 teams in Cairo, Egypt. A source, who sought anonymity confirmed the new development and said that fact that GSU finished second in the local league last year could be the reason behind the withdrawal.The source added, lack of finances for preparation and the event proper could be another reason for the no show. &ldquo;We saw it coming when we failed to defend the local title, succumbing to our arch-rivals Kenya Prisons in the play-off finals last year in Mombasa. But as much as we would have loved to participate in the club championship, it&rsquo;s sad we won&rsquo;t grace the occasion,&rdquo; observed the source familiar to development.The source added: &ldquo;We just have to work extra hard this time around and reclaim the trophy and hope next year we will be given chance to participate in the club Championship. As per now, the team has stepped up training ahead of the next month&rsquo;s KVF national league set for Malaba, Busia.&rdquo;GSU begin their title quest with match against Nairobi Prisons in their first match before they wrap up the day with a tie against Mt. Kenya University on March 3.With withdrawal of GSU from the club championship, it remains to be seen if last season&rsquo;s third-placed Kenya Ports Authority and fourth-placed Nairobi Water will capitalise on the opportunity and apply through the local federation to feature in the African bonanza. Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons are scheduled to represent the nation in women&rsquo;s version set for April in Kelibia, Tunisia.Elsewhere, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology men&rsquo;s volleyball team rose to the top of the KUSA Nairobi Conference league after gathering two wins over the weekend in their backyard.JKUAT raked in six points after halting St. Paul&rsquo;s University&rsquo;s unbeaten run in a four-setter duel and later dismissed Mt. Kenya University in straight sets.They toppled their Thika Road counterparts Kenyatta University, who did not have a fixture over the weekend- from the league leadership. JKUAT leads with 24 points, St. Paul&rsquo;sare second with 23 and KU third with 20.The Juja-based JKUAT lost a pulsating first set to St. Paul&rsquo;s 23-25, after which they put their act together to rebound and grab the successive three sets. They beat St. Paul&rsquo;s 25-17, 25-23 and 25-22 in a game that held out for a record two hours and 18 minutes for the universities games. JKUAT also defeated Mt. Kenya 3-0 (16-25, 21-25, 17-25) to ascend to the summit.St. Paul&rsquo;s however picked one win in their other tie, beating Kenya College of Accountancy University 3-0 (25-20, 25-20, 26-24). Bottom-ridden Daystar University (men) finally made one step up with a 3-0 (22-25,18-25,17-25) victory over Gretsa University, relegating KU Ruiru campus to the eighth place on the table.On the other hand, JKUAT women&rsquo;s side &lsquo;Volley Cats&rsquo; collected four points to place fourth in the six-team league with 10 points. They knocked out both Daystar and United States International University- Africa 3-2. St. Paul&rsquo;s crushed Mt. Kenya 3-0 (25-17, 25-22, 28-26) to lengthen their winning streak to eight matches with 23 points. Mt. Kenya returned to beat KCAU 3-0 and move to the second position with 17 points as KU are third (16).