The 'Eunice Njeri-Izzo' marriage that lasted for a few hours, keeps reading like a bizarre soap opera.Shocking details of how the award winning gospel star walked down the aisle and hours later played a deadly game of cat and mouse on her hubby have emerged.&nbsp;It is rather strange that the couple worked so hard to get a man of God to unite them in holy matrimony only for it to end in annulment.&nbsp; Our source in Texas tells us that Eunice Njeri and Izzo - real name Ado Bukasa - were shopping around for a pastor after the one they wanted turned them down. "Their wedding was rejected by another pastor in Kansas City. I don't know why," our source told Word Is. This forced the celebrity couple to cosy up to Pastor Jackson Kingori of Neema Gospel Church in Texas.&nbsp;Our source adds that Pastor Jackson &nbsp;who officiated the now annulled marriage ceremony is distraught over the turn of events and confirms that indeed, Eunice Njeri did not sign the marriage certificate."The pastor is saying that they did get an official marriage certificate which the pastor signed and the two witnesses signed. They [Eunice and Izzo] did not sign the actual certificate during the ceremony. What you see being signed in the wedding video is a blank piece of paper for photography and video purposes. The certificate was never returned to the registrar for it to be official. Apparently, Eunice ran away with it."Eunice may have blindsided Izzo by not signing the certificate and later that evening boarded a flight back to Nairobi.&nbsp;Our source adds that Izzo had no idea that Eunice did not want to start a life with him. He moved houses from where he was staying to a bigger apartment in preparation of starting their marriage. During the wedding ceremony, Eunice even serenaded Izzo with a song."In a nutshell, she told Izzo and some colleagues that she is going into the house [of a pal where she was staying before the wedding] to change. She left the wedding dress on the floor of one of the bedrooms. Izzo was outside waiting for her but she dodged him and ran away boarding a flight on the same night."Eunice announced the annulment of her marriage 66 days later, on February 1, saying nothing was ever signed and she had to call off the relationship because her heart was elsewhere.Rapper Izzo is yet to give his side of the story.&nbsp;