The treaty permits both countries to have no more than 800 deployed and non-deployed land-based intercontinental and submarine-launched ballistic missile launchers and heavy bombers equipped to carry nuclear weapons, and contains equal limits on other nuclear weapons.In the interview, Trump called New START "a one-sided deal.""Just another bad deal that the country made, whether it's START, whether it's the Iran deal ... We're going to start making good deals," he said. "WE'RE VERY ANGRY"The United States is in the midst of a $1 trillion, 30-year modernization of its aging ballistic missile submarines, bombers and land-based missiles.Trump also complained that the Russian deployment of a ground-based cruise missile is in violation of a 1987 treaty that bans land-based American and Russian intermediate-range missiles."To me it's a big deal," said Trump, who has held out the possibility of warmer U.S. relations with Russia.Asked if he would raise the issue with Putin, Trump said he would do so "if and when we meet." He said he had no meetings scheduled as of yet with Putin.Speaking from behind his desk in the Oval Office, Trump expressed concern about North Korea's ballistic missile tests and said accelerating a missile defense system for U.S. allies Japan and South Korea was among many options available."There's talks of a lot more than that," Trump said, when asked about the missile defense system. "We'll see what happens. But it's a very dangerous situation, and China can end it very quickly in my opinion."China has made clear that it opposes North Korea&rsquo;s nuclear and missile programs and has repeatedly called for denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and a return to negotiations between Pyongyang and world powers.But efforts to change Pyongyang's behavior through sanctions have historically failed, largely because of China's fear that severe measures could trigger a collapse of the North Korean state and send refugees streaming across their border.Trump's meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe earlier this month in Florida was interrupted by a ballistic missile launch by North Korea.Trump did not completely rule out possibly meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at some point in the future under certain circumstances but suggested it might be too late."It's very late. We're very angry at what he's done, and frankly this should have been taken care of during the Obama administration," he said.According to Japanese news reports, the Japanese government plans to start debate over the deployment of a U.S. missile defense system known as the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, and the land-based Aegis Ashore missile defense system to improve its capability to counter North Korean ballistic missiles.The strength of Trump&rsquo;s remarks in favor of the EU took some Brussels officials by surprise after his support for Britain's vote last summer to exit from the EU."I'm totally in favor of it," Trump said of the EU. "I think it's wonderful. If they're happy, I'm in favor of it."Statements by him and others in his administration have suggested to Europeans that he sees little value in the Union as such, which Trump last month called a &ldquo;vehicle for Germany."