The full implementation of a coalition pact penned recently between Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his Muungano party counterpart Kivutha Kibwana hangs on the balance.Kibwana said on Sunday some top Wiper National Executive Committee members are frustrating the deal and have been ominously dragging their feet in ratifying the agreement. It was signed on February 8 at the Ngwata Technical College in Kibwezi East, Makueni county.He said the NEC has delayed the ratification "due to suspicion and uncanny demands by some members". Kibwana said some members accuse Kalonzo of plans to join Jubilee, while others demand direct nominations.The governor said although he was assured of a direct Wiper ticket to defend his seat, he is ready to have that clause dropped for the deal to materialise. He was speaking after a Sunday service at the Holy Ghost Mulutu Catholic Church in Kitui Central. Kibwana was with Kitui counterpart Julius Malombe. &ldquo;We have up to Tuesday [today] and if the Wiper NEC does not ratify the deal, then it will be as good as dead. At Muungano, we cannot wait longer as we are weary of the tight IEBC timelines since we have up to March 2 to give nominations rules,&rdquo; he said.Kibwana said he did not go into the pact with Kalonzo for selfish interests, but for the sake of the greater unity of the Kamba community and posterity. &ldquo;The objective is to have Kambas united under one banner to give Kalanzo bargaining power in his quest for the presidency,&rdquo; he said.Kibwana said in the NASA arrangement, the worst position Kalonzo would get is that of Deputy President. He said Wiper leaders from Ukambani should shun infighting and seek to galvanise the entire community behind Kalonzo.Malombe said all the Kambas should support Kalonzo for him to stand a better chance of being named NASA flag bearer. He criticised those putting "road blocks" for him.Malombe said it is untenable for top Wiper members to demand direct nomination so they endorse the Wiper-Muungano pact. He said the demands can be legally challenged, putting Wiper in an awkward state.&ldquo;Is it fair for a Wiper official to get direct nomination to run for Kitui governor while I am the incumbent and I belong to Wiper? We would challenge such illegal acts,&rdquo; Malombe said.