The Kenya Red Cross Society yesterday started disbursing Sh20 million to 1,300 victims of famine in Kaloleni subcounty.Each selected individual, including elderly women and men, will receive Sh3,000 per month for four months through M-Pesa to buy food.The cash programme is the first to be launched in Kaloleni subcounty and second in Kilifi sounty after a similar programme was launched in Ganze two months ago.Latest statistics indicate 69,651 people in Kaloleni subcounty need food. Kilifi county commissioner Joseph Keter, who officially launched the programme at Gotani shopping centre in Kaya Fungo, said out of the 1.1 million residents of Kilifi, only 259,223 people have been affected by the drought. This is 23 per cent of the population.He said more than 30,000 livestock are in critical condition for lack of water and pasture. Other areas affected are Ganze (68,832 people), Magarini (53172), Rabai (11362) and Malindi (4,678). Kilifi North and Kilifi South have 10,379 and 5148 people respectively in need of food. Those targeted are the elderly and the less fortunate in the programme funded by British Red Cross. A total of Sh200 million has been donated by the European Union. Keter said the county commissioner&rsquo;s office, county government and Kenya Red Cross will supervise food distribution. &ldquo;There is enough food in place but it is being distributed without proper plan. We shall from now on work in a coordinated way to ensure all the vulnerable get food,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Kenya Red Cross, Kilifi coordinator Hakima Masoud urged the residents not to misuse the funds. &ldquo;There will be training on public health and nutrition to ensure the beneficiaries know the kind of foods to buy so as to help address the problem of malnutrition particularly for children under five years,&rsquo;&rsquo; she said. She said Kenya Red Cross Society in partnership with the NDMA identified Kaloleni Sub County as one of the most affected by hunger. Solomon Mulu from the British Red Cross told the beneficiaries to use the fund wisely to help improve their livelihoods. The County Commissioner said the National government was also undertaking a similar program which is benefitting 19,000 households each receiving Sh2, 000 every month. Before the launch there was excitement as the beneficiaries begun receiving Mpesa sent from Kenya Red Cross.Since most could not operate the phones they scrambled to seek advice from the officials nearly interrupting the meeting.Those interviewed said the programme would help them get food for their families who have suffered due to the disasterOthers who attended the launch were Kaloleni Deputy County Commissioner Fred Ndunga, Kayafungo ward representative Alphonce Mwayaa, chiefs and their assistants. Among those in attendance during the launch were Kilifi County Commissioner Joseph Keter, Kaloleni Deputy County Commissioner Fred Ndunga, Kayafungo ward representative Alphonce Mwayaa, chiefs and their assistants.