The state has been given 14 days by the court to explain the
arrest and detention of four Kenyans serving life sentences in South Sudan. Yesterday, Justice Chacha Mwita directed the government to
respond to a suit filed by the the Kenya Human Right Commission after it emerged
that the Attorney General is yet to reply. The judge further directed parties to go back to court on
March 21 for further directions. KHRC is challenging the detention and incarceration of Antony Mwadime, Antony Keya, Boniface Chuma and Ravi Ghaghda in Juba, South Sudan. It says their rights under the constitution and the
international covenant on civil and political rights has been grossly violated by South Sudan. GOVERNMENT HAS 'FAILED' The families, who appeared in court yesterday, accused the government of doing nothing during
the trial and subsequent sentencing of their relatives. They said
the Kenyan government has failed in its fundamental duty to observe, protect,
promote and fulfill their relatives' fundamental rights. KHRC has also in the suit accused the government of hiding
crucial information from the families. “It has been impossible for the families to obtain court
records, engage the accused persons and have been forced to rely on media
reports for information, they are extremely apprehensive that there was no fair
hearing and equality before the law,” KHRC said. The four, according to court documents, left Kenya in search of
jobs in South Sudan and were all employees of Click Technologies Ltd, a company
registered and owned by John Ogou, a politician and brother-in-law of the
President of South Sudan, Salva Kiir. They were arrested on May 29, 2015, by the National Security
Service of the government of South Sudan together with Peter Muriuki, who has
since been released, and jailed in June last year. But since then, the families allege they have been unable to
obtain court records so they file an appeal. “In the circumstances, we have only been relying on media
reports and whatever trickles of information we are able to filter across the
boundaries,” the families said. KNCHR wants the court to declare that Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed and PS Monica Juma have been "grossly negligent" in enforcing and promoting the rights of the arrested persons as provided for by the constitution and international law. The group also wants the court to order the CS and her PS to release all information in their possession concerning the arrest and detention. “We strongly believe the case of the arrested persons mirrors the circumstances of many other voiceless Kenyan citizens, both in South Sudan and other jurisdictions,” the commission says. "They continue to endure extreme situations of abuse of their fundamental rights, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment under the threshold of international law."