ODM wants changes to the Standing Orders to diminish the ruling party&rsquo;s domination through its tyranny of numbers after the August election.The opposition party wants orders amended to reduce parties&rsquo; authority to de-whip, discipline or remove members from House committees or from parties. Chief whip Thomas Mwadeghu on Friday said Jubilee&rsquo;s &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo; makes Parliament dysfunctional. &ldquo;If one morning, a whip wakes up, he has the power to de-whip everybody in his party and they can go home,&rdquo; he said.Speaking in Mombasa during a leadership retreat, he said Jubilee legislators, through their numerical strength, have been acting unfairly and to the detriment of those who elected them.ODM suggests the Public Accounts Committee, usually headed by a member of an opposition party, have more opposition members than those from the ruling party.It says the same should apply to the Public Investment Committee and the Implementation Committee.Mwadeghu said amendments should allow the opposition to co-chair the Implementation Committee with the ruling party. Currently, Jubilee has more members in the three powerful committees that influence House business. He said the Implementation Committee has failed to enforce recommendations by other committees and resolutions of the house. The committee is inefficient, Mwadeghu said.&ldquo;The Implementation committee should equally be chaired by a person from the minority party,&rdquo; he said.PAC examines government accounts, showing appropriations of the sums voted by the House for public expenditure. PIC examines public investment accounts and reports, especially those by the Auditor General.Mwadeghu said de-whipping denies members their constitutional rights. The Wundanyi MP said it&rsquo;s necessary to prevent chief whips from punishing members whenever they feel like it, even without consulting their parties. &ldquo;What happens after August if it is the other way round? It is a possibility. Foresee that NASA may run the next government. What will happen to the tyranny of numbers by NASA? Will they behave in the same manner? Will we be meeting our legislative obligation?&rdquo; he said.