Local engineers say the ongoing construction of the Mombasa-Nairobi standard gauge railway by Chinese has helped in skills transfer which will help them undertake similar projects in future. Speaking after a two-day tour of the SGR in Mombasa on Tuesday, the more than 70 engineers, in different fields, said the $3.8 billion (about Sh393.6 billion) project has increased their technical knowhow and that of contractors. They were drawn from the Association of Engineers of Kenya, Institution of Engineers of Kenya and Consultation Engineers of Kenya. &ldquo;An average of 120 local engineers have taken part in this project at decision-making levels. Many others took part in the actual construction, and some were on internship programme,&rdquo; engineer James Karanja said.&ldquo;The engineers are doing an impressive work, and as you can all see the Mombasa West station is now 94 per cent done. This project has really built the capacity of local engineers.&rdquo;Rosemary Kung&rsquo;u, the first vice president of the Institution of Engineers of Kenya, said the SGR tour helped them gather vital information. &ldquo;We are really proud of this project. We now have qualified personnel with technical knowhow to undertake such big projects in future,&rdquo; Kung&rsquo;u said. Henry Ndunga of Association of Engineers of Kenya said the SGR has been a learning experience and Kenyan engineers are now ready to pass the knowledge to other East African nations. Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda are in the process of starting a similar project, and Kenyan engineers are optimistic they will play a crucial role in developing them. &ldquo;Over the past years, the issue has been lack of opportunities for Kenyans because such massive projects were unheard of. But through the SGR we have acquired enough skills to carry out such developments on our own,&rdquo; Ndunga said. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to officially commission the SGR project on June 1 when the rail will begin full operations, according to government's programme. The engineers are now on the final stages of setting up railway stations but much of the construction work is complete. The Kenya Railways Corporation has received a number of locomotives, wagons and passenger coaches which will operate on the SGR after the commissioning in June.