The people from Western, Nyanza, and Ukambani regions were in a joyful mood last week. Their political leaders came together to sign a document that gave birth to the opposition National Super Alliance, and which sets the agenda for their people as the August 8 election beckons. It is a document of hope.But, as the people from these regions rejoiced, the Coast was politically suffering from lack of self-identity. As Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford-K) basked in the national limelight, Coast leaders watched from the sidelines, as if to say &ldquo;others lead, the Coast follows.&rdquo;Twice in the recent past, the Coast has suffered political setbacks. Last September, leaders from this region were conspicuously left out during the Jubilee Party unification extravaganza in Kasarani, Nairobi. Only party defectors from the Coast featured. The top positions remained in the hands of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto.Similarly last week Coast leaders were treated the same way. The key players were in the limelight while Coast leaders were relegated to obscurity. They watched from the sidelines, as the action progressed.Suffice it to say that a region with three million people, 1.8 million of whom are voters, is being politically marginalised. A number of factors explain this.The first is that the people of the Coast have refused to accept political ethnicity, which they consider uncivilised. The thrust of this argument is that the region is too multi-ethnic to embrace the politics of ethnicity. Yet, as much as Coast communities abhor political ethnicity, it has been with us since Independence in 1963.At Independence, Kanu represented ethnic majority groups and the opposition Kadu the interests of minority groups. This idea that the Coast is too multi-ethnic to embrace political ethnicity and its attendant tyranny of numbers is the Coast leaders&rsquo; undoing. This has opened a window for outside control of Coast politics.The second explanation is the failure to embrace a party of regional unity. In Kenyan politics, political parties are regional and ethnical. Yet, Coast leaders, and some of the communities, have refused to accept this reality&mdash;again on the basis that the region is multi-ethnic!As parties have mushroomed in other regions to coalesce and drive their national political agenda, the Coast has remained a spectator. Our hopes and aspirations have been based on Jubilee or NASA to drive not only the Coast agenda, but also the national one. Coast leaders and residents have remained on the sidelines as party alignments and realignments unfold. Others lead, we follow.The third factor hindering political growth in the Coast is the lack of a regional unifying leader. Greed, selfishness and personal vendetta have in part contributed to the lack of a leader to articulate coastal interests in the national arena. In short, the Coast is suffering from a political leadership vacuum.The basis of my argument is that the Coast is marginalising itself politically. We have rejected the notions of political ethnicity, tyranny of numbers, and a unifying party and leader to drive the Coast agenda regionally and nationally. We have refused to accept what the late Ronald Ngala often reminded us in Mijikenda, that &ldquo;anji ni hiha ra fiho (unity is strength)&rdquo;.And now the Coast is falling apart due to political disunity and apathy.As they say, only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches. Neither NASA nor JP will solve our problems. Only the Coast people know what their problems are and how they should resolve them&mdash;outsiders can only help us get there.Politics is an attitude of the mind. We can decide to change or retain the status quo of forever complaining about marginalisation. That leadership change shall be decided on August 8. We either hit or miss.