Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) Coach of the Month award received a major boost yesterday as Fidelity Insurance, its principal sponsors, increased the sponsorship package to 1.3 million.Fidelity managing director, Matthew Koech, touted their desire to develop talent throughout the country by motivating coaches as the reason the insurance firm decided to increase the cash award to Sh75,000 up from the initial Sh50,000&ldquo;Despite the challenging economic times in the second year of our sponsorship, I am pleased to announce that Fidelity Insurance has increased the monthly cash award by 50 percent,&rdquo; remarked Koech. &ldquo;Just as we celebrate Kenyan players doing the country proud in foreign leagues, we need to celebrate our coaches when they are sought after to improve the game elsewhere. One way of highlighting their prowess is by clinching the &lsquo;Fidelity Coach of the Month&rsquo; award,&rdquo; added the managing director. While pointing out that football is the most popular sport in the world, Koech said his firm is looking at the possibility of initiating a tailor made insurance policy that will compensate clubs when their players are either injured or are not available for one reason or the other. &ldquo;Clubs have the duty to honour contracts even when the players cannot play. As Fidelity insurance, we are thinking of formulating an insurance policy that will see individual clubs compensated for the loss of the services of their players,&rdquo; concluded Koech.SJAK President Chris Mbaisi lauded the insurance firm for their commitment to recognise the achievement of coaches in the top tier league, noting that it will go a long way in inspiring them to achieve greater level of success in their careers and for their football clubs.&ldquo;Since Fidelity came in to sponsor the award for coaches, we have seen an improvement in the standards of coaching no doubt motivated by the award on offer. &ldquo;This increase in the package goes to show the level of confidence Fidelity have in the capacity of our game to develop even further. &ldquo;Recently FKF revealed that they had trained up to 2000 coaches from all levels and it is something we need to encourage for football to grow in our country. &ldquo;We take great pride in the fact that our national team coach is a Kenyan and Harambee Stars results and performances continue to improve going by the recent eight match unbeaten run. It&rsquo;s our hope as SJAK that this association in with Fidelity Insurance will inspire our coaches to attain higher qualification and even seek jobs abroad,&rdquo; said the SJAK president.