That former Ambassador to UN Habitat Sam Ongeri is ditching the ruling Jubilee Party is no secret anymore. While his cross-over may not surprise many, residents are wondering if perceptions of his advanced years were cut drastically immediately he hinted he was joining ODM. Previously, Prof Ongeri has been under immense attack from opposition honchos who wanted him to hang up his boots for a younger generation of leaders. But after he announced his intention to join the opposition, his hitherto worst critics, they scaled down his age and accorded him overwhelming reformist credentials overnight. These double standards by opposition leaders who have at the same time attacked Kisii Senator and governor aspirant Chris Obure as too old are disgusting. Obure is younger than Ongeri. They say what is good for the goose is good for the gander. The hypocrisy is palpable in our political dynamics. So now Obure, 74, is old and must quit politics because he is entering the Kisii governor race on the Jubilee ticket. But Ongeri, 79, is young, energetic and vibrant just because he will contest the Kisii senatorial seat on the ODM ticket.Has ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi secretly endorsed ODM leader Raila Odinga to fly the National Super Alliance Presidential flag at the August 8 general election? Well, Corridors is aware that this was part of the initial agreement between Raila and Mudavadi before the latter agreed to join the opposition for a united outfit in an epic attempt to defeat Jubilee. There are reports that Mudavadi is preparing the ground for a Presidential bid in 2022, after it emerged that Raila could have agreed to back the ANC leader to challenge Deputy President William Ruto for the Uhuru Kenyatta succession. It is unclear what position Mudavadi has accepted as a compromise to withdraw his presidential bid. However, those in the know opine that Raila may decide to be a one-term President if he wins this year and back a Mudavadi bid in 2022.Is Jubilee secretly supporting Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in his Presidential bid? A top Jubilee honcho was overhead informing colleagues, &ldquo;Where do you think he gets money from to fly around, including paying for the chopper? You know even when he goes to a town for an overnight stay he needs like Sh500,000 to operate successfully? The government has many eyes and hands, you never know, even the National Intelligence Service may be facilitating him.&rdquo; This MP&rsquo;s colleagues had asked about Kalonzo&rsquo;s high-flying national aerial campaigns. Kalonzo is on whirlwind tours in the battle for the numbers as the mass voter registration gets to its homestretch.