Kilifi deputy governor Kenneth Kamto and five other ODM members from Kilifi county on Saturday defected to Jubilee party.Kamto who has been serving as the ODM Kilifi branch chairman will be Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro's running mate in Kilifi's gubernatorial race in the upcoming polls. He was received to the Jubilee party by Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya at Dr Kraph grounds in Rabai. Other ODM lieutenants who defected include long time ODM national executive council member Grace Mboja, Rabai/Kisurutini MCA Kenga Mupe, Dan Chome who lost ODM nomination in the Malindi by-election and Kilifi senatorial aspirant Ken Nyale. Kamto accused governor Amason Kingi's government of being corrupt and lazy.&ldquo;I suffered under governor Kingi and I have now decided to move out of ODM. Most people ask why I did not leave long time ago if I was being frustrated. I had to stay so that I could get enough evidence about the rot going on in Kilifi County. I now have a lot of information and I am ready to challenge any of the leaders in Kingi&rsquo;s government in an open forum,&rdquo; said KamtoSimilar sentiments were shared by Mboja who said the party already had a list of preferred candidates who will be issued with nomination certificates.&ldquo;I was among the top decision makers in ODM but I have decided to jump ship because there is no democracy in the party. You have to swear allegiance to some people in the county if you want to be in ODM,&rdquo; said Mboja.Nyale on the hand blamed said that he was frustrated by ODM's Kilifi county coordinator Anderson Ngombo. &ldquo;If you do not give a certain amount of money to Ngombo then do not expect a stress free life in ODM. I have decided to move to Jubilee because I believe everyone is valued there," he said.Mung&rsquo;aro assured assured Kilifi residents of more developments should he be elected as Kilifi's second governor. &ldquo;The national chairman for jubilee is a son of Kilifi county. We have been cheated that ODM is our party but even the NASA mediation committee has no one from the coast region," Mung'aro said.