Maureen Nzisi was 13 years old when she had her first epileptic seizure. But she didn&rsquo;t know what it was at the time.&ldquo;It felt like an electric shiver move all through my body. I was holding a cup of tea and it dropped,&rdquo; the 21-year-old model says.It would take two years of convulsions every other morning before she was finally diagnosed in 2009. Before her first convulsion in 2007, Nzisi lived a normal life.She takes the Star through her life experiences, from being discriminated against and labelled demon-possessed because of her condition, to suffering depression, to her final triumph.Nzisi was born in Machakos in 1994. &ldquo;My mother had me when she was 20 years old. She had to temporarily drop out of school.&rdquo;For the first couple of years of her life, Nzisi lived with her grandparents as her mother returned to Moi University in Eldoret to complete her degree in education. &ldquo;My mother says she left me with my grandmother when I was one-month-old. But if you ask my grandmother, she will tell you it was when I was one-week-old.&rdquo;Once her mother completed her studies and found a job, Nzisi&rsquo;s mother took her and they lived in Muthethini, Machakos county. Her father, trained in law, got a job in Embu, so the family had to be separated for a while.The family was reunited in 2000, and Nzisi attended school for the first time when she was six years old.Culture shock&ldquo;My first day in school was embarrassing because I could neither speak Kiswahili nor English. All I knew was Kamba. When the teachers asked me my name, all I would do is smile. Luckily, there was another Kamba girl in my class who translated sentences for me.&rdquo;Nzisi says her inability to speak the national languages never hurt her self-esteem. &ldquo;I was brought up a confident girl and my mother used to tell me not to worry, because I would learn.&rdquo;Nzisi and her parents moved to Nairobi in 2003, and that is the first time she encountered somebody with epilepsy.&ldquo;I was in standard four. I saw a boy fall to the ground and a teacher put a spoon in his mouth. I always flash back to that moment and now, having gone through epilepsy myself, I think to myself &ndash; those teachers were wrong to put a spoon in that boy&rsquo;s mouth. That only worsened the situation.&rdquo;Nzisi says many people are ignorant about how to deal with someone having a convulsion. In 2007, Nzisi experienced her first convulsion. She was in boarding school.&ldquo;You never know what happened, but you later realise you had an attack when you find tongue bites. I also used to wet myself and have severe headaches.&rdquo;Nzisi&rsquo;s parents tried to protect her and reassure her nothing was wrong with her. &ldquo;Whenever I asked them why I had tongue bites, they told me it was normal for people to accidentally bite themselves during their sleep. And I believed them for a while.&rdquo;This was until Nzisi started to face discrimination in school.Labelled demon-possessedThe attacks became an everyday occurrence, and Nzisi&rsquo;s friend pointed out to her that she might be epileptic and that the condition was associated with people who had demons. &ldquo;I refused to listen to what she was saying and told her I was just sensitive to the cold.&rdquo;Nzisi began to experience depression when schoolmates who were once her friends started to distance themselves from her. &ldquo;I am naturally a very social person, but with the condition, people didn&rsquo;t want to associate with me anymore. I felt so alone. I&rsquo;d call my classmates to ask if we could meet and they would turn me down.&rdquo;Nzisi depended on drugs, though she had not been diagnosed. She sat her KCPE exam and scored 391 marks out of 500. She was accepted at Moi Girls Secondary School, Nairobi. But because of her frequent convulsions, her parents opted to enrol her at a day school.Another round of discriminationNzisi shuffled through six schools throughout her secondary school because of her condition.The first school she enrolled in for form one was a Catholic school. Her stay was short-lived, as she was expelled for being a distraction because of her condition.Nzisi breaks into tears as she recounts the way she was treated.&ldquo;The principal was a sister. I couldn&rsquo;t believe I was chased because of my condition. The picture I had of sisters was caring people. But after that experience, I told my mother that she shouldn&rsquo;t expect me to go to a Catholic church. The sister apologised years later.&rdquo;When Nzisi transferred to a new school, she experienced more discrimination and had to undergo counselling.Although she had to skip many classes because of frequent attacks, Nzisi says she did her best and got good grades &mdash; As and B+s.Despite this, Nzisi says the teachers would still yell at her for skipping classes and not performing well in some subjects.Loses a tooth, almost goes blindDuring one of the days when Nzisi was out of class, a teacher saw her and sent her to run some errands.&ldquo;I told her I couldn&rsquo;t do it because I could feel a convulsion setting in. But she made me feel guilty. She said she was one of the teachers who took care of me so there was no reason to refuse to be sent.&rdquo;Out of guilt, Nzisi set off to run the errands. But on her way, she had a convulsion and ended up dropping to the ground. That was to be the beginning of another nightmare. &ldquo;You see these scars near my eye and my missing tooth. That happened when I fell.&rdquo;Nzisi suffered some rectal bleeding and she was told she would lose sight in her right eye.&ldquo;I bled for a month. At first I thought it was my period, but I had to wear pampers, literally, because the pads could not hold the flow.&rdquo;For the better part of 2009, Nzisi was out of school and she was hospitalised. She was also finally diagnosed with epilepsy.Concerning the report she would lose her sight in the right eye, Nzisi said: &ldquo;I told my mother I wasn&rsquo;t going to undergo any surgery but I would depend on the God she kept on talking about who is faithful.&rdquo;Call it coincidence or God&rsquo;s intervention, but Nzisi did not lose her sight, and the bleeding stopped.Because of being in and out of school, and because of repeating classes, Nzisi completed her high school studies in 2015, when she was 20 years old. She got a C-. &ldquo;I repeated form four because I wanted a better grade. Everyone was happy with my grade because they knew what I had gone through, but I felt I could do better. My mother tried to convince me to accept the grade, but I decided to repeat form four.&rdquo;Nzisi ended up getting the same grade: C-. &ldquo;The principal told me that my talent will show itself elsewhere and a grade is not everything.&rdquo;Nzisi is now in remission. She says she does not get convulsions anymore, and the signs of epilepsy seem to have subsided. Nonetheless, she still takes drugs to avoid any eventuality.Modelling and Purple DayLast year, Nzisi took up modelling. During one show, the organiser saw her taking pills and asked her what they were for. &ldquo;I told him to Google Purple Day.&rdquo;Purple Day is an event designed to raise awareness on epilepsy. It takes place annually on March 26. It was started by Canadian Cassidy Megan in 2008 after her struggle with epilepsy.This year, Nzisi has teamed up with a community organisation, Sana Foundation, to organise a series of awareness events leading up to Purple Day.Nzisi&rsquo;s final words are: &ldquo;We should embrace people living with epilepsy. It is a condition like any other and all we need is love and respect. For those with the condition, don&rsquo;t let it put you down. You can still live a normal life. I&rsquo;m very confident about myself and sometimes people ask me why I&rsquo;m so proud. I tell them it&rsquo;s because of the discrimination I have faced. It has made me have to be twice as proud as I would have been.&rdquo;