The widow of the slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha wants her sons &mdash; extradited to the US on drugs charges &mdash; to be brought back and charged in Kenya.Fatuma Akasha is distraught following information that her sons&nbsp; Baktash and Ibrahim Akasha had suddenly been extradited. Arrest warrants were issued against them by a US court in 2014.In 2000, drug baron Ibrahim Abdalla Akasha was shot dead by a gunman on a motorcycle in Amsterdam. His widow says her wounds have been reopened.As she followed court proceedings on Monday, she appeared brokenhearted. Her sons&rsquo; lawyer Cliff Ombeta had sought to have the court stop Ibrahim and Baktash&rsquo;s deportation.Fatuma wept, not knowing what was happening to her sons. She requested the government to consider that her sons were born and raised in Kenya.&ldquo;As a Kenyan citizen, I pray and ask the government for help. My children have never been to America,&rdquo; Fatuma said.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t see any reason why they were taken there. We&rsquo;ve been coming to court since Monday. No one seemed to know their whereabouts. We only learnt from the media that they had been extradited to the US.&rdquo;She said her sons have been coming to court without fail since they were granted bond. &ldquo;The last time I spoke to my sons was on Saturday. Since then, I haven&rsquo;t heard from them,&rdquo; Fatuma said.She said police harassed her family and employees while looking for Baktash. &ldquo;They pointed guns at my daughter and [lawyer] Ombeta&rsquo;s head,&rdquo; Fatuma said.She said they ransacked the house. The sons were arrested by the Anti-Narcotics Police Unit officers at their home in Nyali.The Akashas, Vijay Goswami (Indian) and Hussein Gulam (Pakistani) face charges of&nbsp; conspiring to import heroin into the US, conspiring to import methamphetamine into the US, distributing heroin for unlawful importation into the US and distributing methamphetamine for unlawful importation in the US.Each count carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison and a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. Their case is being handled by the Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit.