The invasions by armed pastoralists in Laikipia have now spread to the 24,000 acre Sosian conservancy.On Friday, large numbers of Pokot and Samburu moved into Sosian from the 44,000-acre Suyian conservancy where the grazing has now been exhausted after they took it over three weeks ago. The Pokot are just grazing their cattle but the Samburu are vandalising property on Sosian. On Saturday a police armoured car arrived at Sosian with 15 police officers to try and stem the invasion. They left soon after they arrived because the invaders were better armed and far outnumbered them. By 2001 Sosian Ranch had been entirely abandoned as the land was so degraded that it could not even sustain goats. Six shareholders came together to restore the 24,000 acres with combined ranching and wildlife conservancy. Sosian employs 100 workers from the local community. In early February, armed pastoralists invaded Il Ngwesi conservancy, owned by the Maasai community. Fifteen Australian tourists had to be evacuated by helicopter while one Samburu was shot dead in a firefight.An estimated 10,000 pastoralists have invaded ranches in Laikipia North in the last four months. Estimates of the numbers of livestock with them range from 135,000 to 250,000. Last week in Rumuruti Laikipia North MP Matthew Lempurkel in Rumuruti met 800 pastoralists but the attacks have continued. Laikipia has become an important tourist centre in the last two decades. With Suyian and Sosian, six tourist lodges in Laikipia have been closed since January. Read: Herders invade Suyian ranch and burn lodgeAlso read: Land invasion wrecks LaikipiaMore on this: Herders kill wildlife, destroy property in search of water in LaikipiaThe conservancies are former ranches that still maintain large herds of beef cattle combined with wildlife conservancy and tourism. The destruction of Laikipia has led to the most negative international press coverage that Kenya has received since the end of the Moi regime. Last week the Economist twisted the famous opening line of the book Out of Africa by Karen Blixen to headline its Laikipia story 'I burned a farm in Africa'. In January, President Uhuru Kenyatta, while in Rumuruti, ordered that all invading pastoralists should leave the Laikipia ranches. The Cabinet made the same order in October last year. Earlier this month Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery said the situation in Laikipia was now under control. The 12 main conservancies in Laikipia, including Suyian and Sosian, claimed in 2014 that they pumped more than Sh2 billion into the region's economy in 2013.