For once they found something they can agree upon.The Jubilee leadership has joined Cord in criticising the electoral agency for allegedly favouring their opponents&rsquo; strongholds by giving them more BVR kits. They each claim rivals&rsquo; strongholds have been favoured in the voter registrtion in the drive ending on February 14.Jubilee Party head of secretariat Raphael Tuju yesterday questioned the credibility of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chiefs and demanded why Cord strongholds have more kits compared to Jubilee.He put pressure on IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba to explain and assure Kenyans they will remain independent and neutral in the August 8 general election.&ldquo;NASA has received a large number of BVR machines. In our computation, they have 255 extra machines. We request the Chebukati and Chiloba-led IEBC to explain the rationale used to arrive at the formula,&rdquo; Tuju said.But Cord co-principals accuse the IEBC of favouring Jubilee strongholds.ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga, Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka and Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi accused the IEBC of favouring Jubilee in distributing the kits. They say the delayed delivery and failure of BVR devices in some opposition areas is a plot to deny their supporters equal opportunity to register.Tuju said Jubilee has not taken the IEBC to task over the voter registration mess and about 129,000 and double registrations. That&rsquo;s because the commissioners are new, he said.He said, however, they cannot remain quiet and defend the commission as Cord&rsquo;s &ldquo;bickering&rdquo; undermines its credibility and impartiality.REGISTRATION MESS&ldquo;This is important as IEBC has a credibility gap to fill from the fact that both Chiloba and Chebukati come from the same counties. The apprehension has been raised by people from our Jubilee strongholds,&rdquo; he said.Tuju also demanded IEBC explain why ID numbers of prominent persons, including retired Presidents&rsquo; Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki, Raila&rsquo;s and that of Kalonzo have been found in the swamp of double registrations. JP accused Cord leaders of blocking the IEBC from resolving double registration issue through their court case, stopping audit of the voter register.Tuju challenged opposition leaders to mobilise their supporters to register and stop blaming the IEBC for low turnout in their strongholds.He also asked the Cord brigade to stop accusing the government of conspiring with the IEBC to list more Jubilee supporters. &ldquo;This issue of leaders being sensational should be stopped because even the Jubilee Party has raised serious issues with the commission,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;For instance, in Tharaka Nithi there are 82 BVR machines and in Siaya there are 157. Nyeri has 152, while Bungoma has 219...We just need explanations on the criteria. We are not saying it is wrong,&rdquo; he said.Tuju said the party had asked the electoral agency to preside over its nominations but there has been no response two months later. He was reacting to claims by Raila a former CS masterminded voter listing fraud, leading to the registration of more people in Jubilee zones.