Africa High Jump champion Mathew Sawe is set to relocate his training base to Paris next week as he seeks to make the cut for this year&rsquo;s World athletics Championships in London.Sawe will undergo a two-months training culminating in the first competition in Paris in April. He will also compete in a number of meetings including China, Dakar and Ostrava for build up purposes and search for qualifying time ahead of the London show.&ldquo;I will only participate in four outdoor meetings in search for qualifying time and build up. The reason I avoided indoor is because the former in faster and it will be good for posting better results,&rdquo; Sawe explained adding that in Paris, he will have access to crucial facilities for training.&ldquo;In Kenya we have the basic training facilities at Kasarani and Nyayo stadium. They should also be installed in other regions, closer to the athletes. I am based in Eldoret and it is very challenging to get such facilities,&rdquo; he added.Sawe narrowly missed to qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympics but is confident of making the World athletics Championships cut this time round. Sawe jumped 2:21m to win gold at the 2016 African Championships in Durban, South Africa but fell short in making it to Rio despite being called to Team Kenya&rsquo;s residential training camp in Eldoret.&ldquo;After winning the event, I was told there was no need for me to continue searching for qualifying mark. I relaxed only to be excluded from the team,&rdquo; said Nandi County-born athlete. He wants to use that disappointment to propel him to the World Championships and has already laid down his strategy. &ldquo;Last year, I missed the qualifying mark by 4cm but I am confident the 2:29m qualifying standard for London will be attainable. My intention is to get it early,&rdquo; Sawe who has a personal best time of 2:25m, said.The mark (2:25m) is Kenya&rsquo;s national record he set during the trials for the Beijing World Championships. &ldquo;In 2015, I missed the mark again but I am happy that such experience will be helpful for me this year as I start my quest for a medal in London,&rdquo; he added during his training at the University of Eldoret.Unlike world javelin champion Julius Yego who pioneered Kenya&rsquo;s javelin at the world stage by studying Youtube videos, Sawe honed his skills at the primary and secondary school levels.&ldquo;But those days I was only competing for fan and I never knew I will pursue it later. I used to represent my school, Itigo Mixed, in the local school competitions,&rdquo; he explained. His maiden appearance in Team Kenya was at the 2012 Africa Championships in Porto Novo, where he bagged a bronze medal.That performance earned him an invitation from the International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) to train at the High Performance Training Centre in Dakar in Senegal. &ldquo;That is where I further improved my skills and my intention is to take it to the world stage,&rdquo; he said.