The opposition yesterday said its quest to remove the Jubilee administration from power is unstoppable as its victory is in sight.Leaders Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi however reiterated they will only emerge victorious if they remain united under NASA and pledged to protect their unity to the end.They spoke in the Gusii Stadium, where they received Sam Ongeri and several MP and MCA hopefuls, who ditched Jubilee for ODM. At the March 4, 2013 election, Ongeri was the Jubilee pointman in the larger Kisii region.&ldquo;NASA is a big house, but if I go it alone, Jubilee will win. If Raila, Kalonzo [Musyoka] and [Moses] Wetang&rsquo;ula go it alone, Jubilee will win. We must remain together to remove Jubilee from power,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.&ldquo;The only language we are speaking now is &lsquo;Uhuru Must Go&rsquo;. We will send them home by 8am on August 8.&rdquo;Sharing similar sentiments, Raila said Jubilee, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto, has failed the country and it is time NASA took over to rescue Kenya from its misrule.&ldquo;They are flying across the country campaigning when Kenyans are dying. They are launching projects, which are not backed by budgetary allocations. Uhuru and Ruto have lost direction,&rdquo; he said.Raila not scared of uhuruRaila said he is not scared of facing Uhuru at the election.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m ready to face him but before then, ensure you register as voters by tomorrow [today]. I want tyranny of numbers,&rdquo; he said.Raila urged the Kisii community to continue supporting his presidential bid quoting a Luo proverb: &lsquo;If you want to go hunt for a leopard, which has been terrorising the village, you must go with your brother.&rsquo;The defectors included MP hopefuls Migos Ogamba, Elijah Kombo (Kitutu Chache North), John Momanyi (Bobasi) and Joshua Ondora (South Mugirango).Others were Ocharo Kebira (Nyaribari Masaba), Jason Ondabu (Bomachoge Borabu) and woman representative aspirant Nyaboke Matoke.I respect ongeri &mdash; BosireKitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve a lot of respect for Ongeri.He has been a defender of government during rain and sunshine. He has defected, run away from the government because it&rsquo;s rotten. This is what we have been telling you.&rdquo;Governors John Nyagarama (Nyamira) and James Ongwae (Kisii) termed the defection a game changer in the Kisii political landscape.&ldquo;He is a big catch,&rdquo; Nyagarama said. Ongwae said, &ldquo;Kisii is an ODM zone and with the eldest son of Omogusiii joining us, we can&rsquo;t go wrong.&rdquo;Kitutu Chache MP North MP Richard Onyonka reiterated he is in ODM and vowed to remain loyal.JP house collapsingHoma Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga and her Nyamira counterpart Alice Chae said the Jubilee house is already collapsing.&ldquo;When a house collapses, pillars start cracking. The defection of Ambassadors Chirau Makwere and Ongeri is a clear sign that Jubilee is on its way out,&rdquo; Wanga said.Migori Governor Okoth Obado said Nyanza should vote as a bloc. &ldquo;If you want Raila to become President on August 8, we must vote as a bloc. We should also ensure we are steadfast in ODM,&rdquo; he said.In a written speech, Ongeri, who has served the government in various ministries as minister, said his defection to ODM is a major milestone in his political journey that started in 1988.decision is residents-drivenHe said amid cheers from the crowd, &ldquo;One of the key things that have been my guiding pillar in politics is loyalty and my decision to finally join ODM has been painstaking and a difficult one to make.&ldquo;It has taken loud and unanimous voice of the people that has been reverberating throughout Kisii and Nyamira, asking me to join their party of choice.&rdquo; He said it took him time to listen keenly to residents, who he said desired to see him join the party of Omogusii. The veteran politician said, &ldquo;This has been heard. I assure you I&rsquo;m here to stay.&rdquo;