A new round of talks to end the doctors strike begins tomorrow. The negotiations will be mediated by Cotu and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights as ordered by the Labour Court last week.KNCHR Vice Chair George Morara said they have met the KMPDU officials and Ministry of Health to agree on terms of reference."The talks begin properly on Wednesday and we hope on Monday we will have light at the end of the tunnel," he saidThe parties have until Monday next week to end the strike, failure to which national officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists' Board will be jailed for 30 days.Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya said they will be represented by CoG chief executive Jacqueline Mogeni.Munya urged doctors to rethink their salary demands because counties cannot pay the high salaries they want.The doctors have been on strike for 65 days now, demanding nearly 300 per cent pay rise. This would give an intern a Sh325,000 monthly salary, and specialists Sh1 million.The government says it can afford only a maximum Sh208,000 for interns.&ldquo;If we had the resources to meet their demands we would not let our hospitals go without key services for two months,&rdquo; he said. Munya was speaking in Nairobi after a full council meeting yesterday.He indicated some of the striking doctors who received 'show cause' letters might be dismissed. &ldquo;In some counties doctors have applied to get new jobs and some have been hired,&rdquo; he said. Munya said although they ordered county service boards to issues 'show cause' and dismissal letters, the process is still &ldquo;ongoing&rdquo;.&ldquo;Our intention is not to punish them but to find a solution,&rdquo; he said. Governors also announced each county will contribute Sh1 million to the Kenya Red Cross Society to help drought stricken counties.The Red Cross had earlier on appealed to the public to support them through Kenyans4Kenya initiative which operates through direct money transfer.&ldquo;The number of people dying of hunger in this country is increasing daily. 2.7 million people will need our assistance this month, if we do not act fast,&rdquo; Munya said.He said the national government has failed to involve counties in its drought relief programmes.&ldquo;There is no coordination between the national and county governments, hence very little happening on the ground. The national government should let us intervene,&rdquo; Munya said.He said they chose Red Cross because it has better coordination and presence on the ground that counties can use to help each other. The governors also committed to make personal contributions to Red Cross.