Let me give my two cent on the Kenneth Marende issue.First I think his candidature for Nairobi Gubernatorial is being overblown all over and everybody wants to comment as if a real threat has just emerged. Marende has not yet announced his candidature for Nairobi gubernatorial seat. He only hinted at one time at a function. He was simply trying his luck and wanted the powers that be in Jubilee to notice him. To beckon him. To give him a proposal. They did not! Secondly, Marende was photographed walking with RAO while holding hands. Specifically, for the Luo, when Raila hold somebody's hand, it is assumed it is an endorsement, hence, the narrative that he is joining ODM and coming to a position he had hinted as coveting. I want to submit that last Wednesday as RAO walked into Serena Hotel for the NASA announcement, he held onto my hand as we went to the table where Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula were seated. This was not an endorsement and it is a normal thing for RAO to do. Thirdly, Marende has no "way forward", Period! Politically, he is a dead wood, without value. He has no constituency, no influence whatsoever, either in Vihiga County, or even among the Banyore. He has no platform. He served to his highest apex as a speaker, that in itself was beyond his wildest dream. What remains of him is to go down! He is sinking. His value is nothing more that a nuisance or as they say, he has "nuisance value". Fourthly, he probably wants to bank on the Luhya numbers. Unfortunately, even the Luhyas do not recognize him. Only "Agwambo" recognized him several years ago and made him speaker and again he tried to make him a speaker for the second time. It failed. Once this did not succeed, he became a "Raila Bashing machine", and he was rewarded with a parastatal job.To go back to "Baba" was a fatal mistake. To imagine he can be elected in any position under the current political dispensation is a pipe dream. He cannot be trusted!Nobody owes Marende anything, like Peter Kenneth, before him, who said he had three options of governorship before settling on Nairobi, he is thoroughly mistaken. What he did not do as a speaker, he will never do. He was better off remaining as chairman of Kenya Power and enjoying the parks. But for flying against the wind that settled him there, he has for a second time bitten the hand that fed him, and for this, he will live to rue the day he resigned. And as the Bible says, humble yourself and you will be made great, otherwise, you will be humiliated while being humbled. Very soon, Marende will be humbled and humiliated!George Ndonji is Head of Secretariat, Kidero Tena Centre