ODM has dismissed as misleading claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta's political turfs have dominated the ongoing mass voter registration, and that the polls have been &ldquo;won&rdquo;.The party's director of elections Junet Mohammed said their independent tally per county and constituency reveals a tremendous improvement of voter numbers in NASA strongholds. This he said is the clearest indication of Kenya's resolve to kick out Jubilee on August 8 polls. Junet claimed the media is conveniently and erroneously using old provinces to designate what regions are NASA's political bedrocks and what regions are Jubilee's. &ldquo;The truth of which regions are facing acute voter crisis is no longer a matter of conjecture or speculations, considering the desperate low Jubilee leaders have sunk while whipping their voters to register,&rdquo; Junet said in a statement to newsrooms. According to the Suna East MP, the whole government has stopped and the entire state machinery has descended &ldquo;on forgotten villages to scout for non-existent &ldquo;numbers&rdquo;. &ldquo;The whole government has stopped working as the President and Deputy President, the whole Cabinet, principal secretaries, parastatal heads and security forces descend on forgotten villages to scout for non-existent 'numbers',&rdquo; Junet said. He said scare-mongering, fear mongering and warnings of dire consequences to befall communities have failed to excite people. "Now Jubilee&rsquo;s only hope is to cook the figures and propagate fake numbers.&rdquo; According to new IEBC statistics released on Tuesday, Central registered a record 318,457 voters, 62.2 per cent of the IEBC target. Rift Valley, on the other hand registered 497,313 voters. This translates to 58.7 per cent. Eastern, Nyanza, Coast and Western registered 348,977, 248,390 and 185,683 respectively. Junet yesterday urged Nasa supporters not to be demoralised by what he termed heightened propaganda and falsehoods on the alleged poor turnout. Uhuru, his Deputy William Ruto and the Nasa Captains led by Raila Odinga have been scouring every village especially in their political bastions asking voters to register. The Nasa team have however complained that Jubilee is using the provincial administration to boost its numbers while warning them not to help in Opposition zones.