The biggest problem afflicting millions of Kenyans in every corner of the country is the worst lowest levels of money circulation in the country&rsquo;s economy. It is a fact that the country has never experienced such low levels since independence. This is worsened by ever diminishing employment opportunities, income and rock bottom purchasing power, therefore relegating the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission&rsquo;s (IEBC) ongoing mass voter registration exercise to beyond second priority. This is compounded by the ever skyrocketing prices of essential consumer commodities like Maize flour, wheat flour, tea, cooking oil, Petroleum products, salt, food, and sugar among many others. Their scarcity and the masses inability to afford them. Pushed to extreme levels of poverty, without food to keep them alive, worse constantly threatened with the worsening hunger taking a stranglehold on these millions faced with drought, therefore not even a drop of water &ndash; for them the priority is not to register as voters, but to survive to be able to see the next day. Heavily constrained to meet the daily demands for survival particularly getting food every waking day under such challenging conditions, exhortations by politicians and the IEBC to massively register as voters will fall on deaf ears since food comes first, the rest second. Indeed it must not be forgotten that a huge percentage of this state of affairs is being presided over by a government whose top employees holding powerful positions are month after month exposed by the media to have been the architects and executers of mega multi-billion shillings looting scandals when the ordinary Kenyan cannot afford even five shillings to buy a match box. The situation is made no better when the head of that government President Kenyatta has the audacity to go public to tell a starving nation that he and his Jubilee kingpins in power are enjoying chunks of juicy roasted meat while the opposition and the rest of Kenyans are starving and salivating for their Nyama Choma courtesy of the starving tax payers&rsquo; money. This state of affairs is holding the country in a stranglehold from which Kenyans who are desperate to escape such clutches, are therefore forced to blame politicians for lack of their lack of morale to register as voters because they are supposed to provide solutions to these challenges. Indeed with some are rightly citing failure to implement development projects among a myriad of other promises that the same politicians have failed to deliver. There is also the fear of recurrence of post-election violence and the greed by leaders once elected into office disappear from their constituents for nearly five years until when elections are around the corner to resurface as reasons behind voter apathy. The abject apathy bedeviling the ongoing mass voter registration by the IEBC will spell doom to political careers of many politicians in the country but also cause trouble to the country&rsquo;s democratic future. The high level of apathy is sending a very powerful and signal to the political leaders in this country and also the IEBC itself &ndash; that there is something seriously wrong or many things are seriously wrong and the people are not happy. The first week&rsquo;s of voter registration results posted by the IEBC only three regions had tried to meet the IEBC daily targets. That was Central and Rift Valley regions whose performance between 50 and 60 per cent was reportedly mostly triggered by what was generally called the Raila Odinga phobia &ndash; hence a fixation to use the votes&rsquo; numerical strength to lock him out of State House. The leading was North Eastern Kenya whose targeted daily voter registration levels were low at less than 30, 000, but the turnout was more than 90 per cent whereas the apathy hit hard the former Western and Coast provinces whose huge population levels are a highly critical factor in the forthcoming general elections. As the exercise entered its third week, the situation was no better across the country&rsquo;s eight geographical regions during the second week. Barasa is a journalist and a media consultant, jobarasa@gmail.com