This would easily have been the worst Valentine&rsquo;s week for the seven officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union, who were on Monday imprisoned for a month on contempt of court charges. The Kenyan state served them a big, bleeding heart of contempt for their relentless efforts to challenge it to improve the state of affairs of their members and sector.It seemed to matter little that contempt of court is hardly a charge that results in convictions in this country. Nor did it seem to matter that their incarceration would completely derail any negotiations on the doctors&rsquo; strike. Their imprisonment also, predictably, created a public relations nightmare for the Uhuruto government which was seen to be vindictive towards a professional cadre simply agitating for improved conditions of work: never mind Uhuuto&rsquo;s protestations that the applicable judicial process was independent of its influence or control. What could be the ramifications of all this for Uhuruto, if at all, when seeking the love of Kenyans in the August 8 general election? The procedural infirmities in the lead up to the polls means they will likely not be based on a free, fair and credible electoral process. Individuals and constituencies have already been systemically and systematically excluded, public and other resources have already been (and continue to be) unfairly leveraged in support of the incumbent, what-should-be-independent constitutional institutions have already shown a naked proclivity for partisanship and alternative voices continue to be delegitimised, intimidated and muzzled. Worse, the content of the election has nary an iota of democratic content. There is no attempt at political seduction based on a lofty national vision or an ambitious collective goal: At the core of Uhuruto&rsquo;s messaging is that uthamaki must be defended at all costs. Uthamaki, to the uninitiated, is the Gikuyu word for one who is an anointed religio-politico guardian. Currently, President Uhuru Kenyatta is projected as the muthamaki. Uthamaki is contradistinguished with usamaki which is actually a Kiswahili adaptation that rhymes with uthamaki and signifies &ldquo;fish eaters&rdquo;; derived from samaki meaning fish. Usamaki really uses the fact that fish is a popular culinary delight among the Luo to denigrate Opposition Raila Odinga and his community political support base as only being endowed with fish-eating skills! This reinforces the &ldquo;us&rdquo; versus &ldquo;them&rdquo; narrative that has historically been used to spark unthinking, fanatical political support among ethnic constituencies. The fact that the Luo do not circumcise their men has all along been used to caricature them as being unable to lead &ldquo;real&rdquo; men! Recall, for instance, the offensive social media messages that arch-Gikuyu chauvinist Moses Kuria, the Gatundu South MP, has reportedly been accused of posting? This toxic political brew is indeed liberally served to scare the ethnic base into circling the wagons and to use their electoral numbers to &ldquo;protect&rdquo; their own. Hence, it should not be no surprise when, for instance, Kabete MP and Kiambu Governor aspirant Ferdinand Waititu uses a public political platform to warn the Gikuyu ethnic base that should Raila ascend to power, their men will be forced to wear shorts. And also that their land will forcibly be taken away from them. In addition to the ethnic sabre-rattling and scaremongering, another device used is to create a moral equivalence between the regime and the opposition. When, for instance, challenged to account for runaway corruption, the regime&rsquo;s response is that the Opposition is no better. The assertion here is that the Opposition is the other side of the same corruption coin. Hence, what is actually a possibility &mdash; one could even argue a likely probability &mdash; that the opposition will be corrupt when in power is elevated to the status of empirical certainty. This absurdity is quite believable by the way: The main Opposition formation has hardly been spotless in tackling and addressing corruption and financial mismanagement. They have been part and parcel of Kenya&rsquo;s ignominious kleptocratic past and their current record with regard to some key issues in this regard is hardy inspiring.But currently, it is not the Opposition that, for instance, executed the National Youth Service, Eurobond and the Mafya House economic scandals and, then, refused to account for them. Had they been in power, it is very likely that they could have been responsible for similar malfeasance. But that is not the case. Hence, to tar them with the same brush and accuse them of the very same sins as those who are in power is spurious. Perhaps the most notable piece in all this disheartening narrative is not the ingenious capacity of the regime to mendaciously invent and manufacture facts. It is the fact that they know despite all this, they will still receive a lot of love from huge swathes across Kenya! And so they will continue to invent some more. Like the manufactured binary that a vote against Uhuruto is a vote for Raila . Why, will there be only two candidates on the ballot? Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.