Nasa will explain its August poll agenda to the public in its first rally in Deputy President William Ruto's backyard on Saturday.Raila Odinga said all Kenyans are invited to the meeting in Eldoret town, that follows the signing of an agreement on the framework for selecting its flag bearer."We will officially announce to Kenyans that Nasa is alive and kicking," said Raila, who is Cord and ODM boss.Read: Nasa inches closer to selecting flag bearer to take on UhuruThe Opposition leader added that the National Super Alliance arose from historical circumstances and has great plans for Kenya."We will ensure our youth are gainfully employed... Nasa will ensure Kenyans have equal opportunity," he said on Wednesday.Raila did not say why they settled on Eldoret but Jubilee Party and the Opposition have been racing against time to win the region's support.He has been keen on reaping big from the political falling out between the DP and a number of his allies including Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto.Rift Valley voted overwhelmingly for Raila, who was the ODM presidential flagbearer in 2007, but in the 2013 elections the ground shifted, with Raila garnering few votes in the region.Read: Raila woos vote - rich Rift Valley for 2017, Cord leader reaches out to former support baseAlso read: Raila makes friends in DP Ruto's Rift Valley backyardOpposition leader Raila Odinga addresses National Super Alliance supporters following the signing of their agreement at Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi, February 22, 2017. /COURTESYFord Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula reiterated that the coalition will liberate Kenya from the misrule of the Jubilee government."The Nasa government will surrender to the counties all functions the Jubilee government has withheld or usurped. We believe the truth will set us free," he said. Wetangula further outlined seven key pillars that the coalition agreed upon:Nasa made the announcement Nasa principals appended their signatures to the agreement reached by a 12-member committee.Raila, Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) signed the deal at the Okoa Kenya office in Nairobi.More on this: Nasa unveils team of 12 to register, identify flag bearer for electionTheir supporters sang songs of praise as they walked, one by one, to the desk set for the signing of the agreement. Mudavadi was the first to sign the deal. He was accompanied by Amani secretary general Godfrey Osotsi.As he sauntered towards the table, supporters sang and shouted "Nasa tibim! Nasa tibim! Nasa! Nasa!".Impressed by the songs invented by the supporters, Orengo said: "I see myself calling Mombasa woman representative Mishi Mboko to come and cheer from up here."When he called Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, shouts of "Weta! Weta! Weta!!" filled the air.Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka embrace at the signing of Nasa's agreement at Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi, February 22, 2017. /COURTESYRaila, who was next, stepped forward for the signing and was received in a similar fashion by the people, and then came Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka."Now we have an agreement...signed, sealed and delivered," Orengo said.The coalition's coordinating committee was unveiled in January and hit the ground running to spearhead the search for its presidential candidate.Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang'ula said the team will also select a running mate for the presidential candidate.The general election could well be a rematch between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila, despite much talk and deliberate suspense about another joint opposition flag bearer.More on this: Raila still wants to be NASA 2017 candidateAlso read: High hurdles on road to a single NASA candidate