The governor race in Tharaka Nithi, famous for the swing vote that turned tables in the contentious 2007 general election, has narrowed down to three aspirants. Governor Samuel Ragwa&rsquo;s main challengers are Chuka Igambang&rsquo;ombe MP Muthomi Njuki, popularly known as Muthomi wa Generations and a former two-term Nithi MP Petkay Miriti. Njuki got the nickname from his Generations Electronics &amp; Allied Ltd business, that deals in the Safaricom airtime and phones dealership and M-Pesa agents across the country. He also worked as a teacher. 2013 POLLS RESULTSMiriti is plotting a political comeback after four years in the cold since he lost to Ragwa in 2013. He garnered 54,813 votes compared to Ragwa&rsquo;s 70,088. He petitioned the result and lost in both the High Court and the Court of Appeal. Miriti also served as Trade assistant minister between 2006-07. Njuki is banking on his constituents, who overwhelmingly voted for him in 2013. Chuka Igambang&rsquo;ombe had 57,231 voters compared to Maara&rsquo;s 50,870 and Tharaka&rsquo;s 47,386. The county had a total of 155,904 voters and 139,083 votes were cast. THE THARAKA CONSTITUENCY FACTORTo stand a better chance to win the governor race, it is important for the candidate to pick a suitable running mate from Tharaka constituency a factor that was Miriti&rsquo;s undoing in 2013. He chose David Mbaya from Maara as his running mate. Tharaka Nithi is a Jubilee stronghold, and it is expected that the aspirant who will clinch the Jubilee ticket will comfortably win the race in August. Ragwa defeated Miriti in 2013 simply because he was the TNA candidate, the dominant party then, while the latter vied on the Unity Party of Kenya. He has already dissolved the party and merged to form the Jubilee Party. This means the three will square it out for the Jubilee ticket.Miriti has in the recent past increasingly proved to be Njuki&rsquo;s main threat in the Jubilee nominations as Ragwa sits on the fence because he fears he might lose at the primaries. Another factor that makes Miriti a threat is that they both come from the same constituency. Despite Miriti being appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as one of the people to popularise the Jubilee Party in the county, he has failed to pull crowds and significant leaders to back his bid. Residents say had Miriti remained vocal in flaying Ragwa&rsquo;s development performance, he would have been his main rival heading to August polls. Njuki has already sold his bid across the county and may residents are aware of his candidacy. He has slammed Ragwa&rsquo;s dismal performance in projects, and said the governor hasn&rsquo;t initiated tangible. Ragwa has disputed those claims. The incumbent has also been accused by MPs of being a lone ranger since he failed to attend President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s first and only visit to the county in December 2013. In his defence, Ragwa said he skipped the event because he was not involved in its planning, despite him being the host. RAGWA&rsquo;S ACHIEVEMENTS Despite the criticism, Ragwa has his achievements. He has increased the number of dispensaries from 37 to 59 and raised the number of nurses from 214 nurses to 576. This has improved healthcare provision in the country.&ldquo;We must ensure that we don&rsquo;t lose any woman while giving birth at home,&rdquo; Ragwa said. &ldquo;All schools now have an ECDE class. We have also built theatres in the Magutuni and Marimanti hospitals and employed 62 more doctors. We now have 76.&rdquo;Ragwa says in the next two years, there will be piped water across the county. &ldquo;We have succeeded in uniting the three subtribes of Maara, Chuka and Tharaka and, unlike before, they now speak in one voice.&rdquo; Ragwa is also building a mortuary at Tharaka Hospital at a cost of Sh.14 million. The governor, who also worked as Chogoria Hospital CEO, is confident that he will retain his seat. THE MONEY FACTORMoney will also be a key determinant in this election. Njuki has hired a chopper to transverse the county, and he recently gave suitcases to students who scored more that 300 marks in the county as they joined Form One. Ragwa, on the other hand, has business, from which he is likely to finance his campaigns. The two &mdash; Rangwa and Njuki &mdash; have severally engaged in public spats, with the worst being on Jamhuri Day in 2015 at the county headquarters in Kathwana, where their supporters hurled seats at each other after Njuki&rsquo;s microphone was switched off by Ragwa&rsquo;s supporters.Political analyst Paul Mugambi says Ragwa&rsquo;s development record is not as good a Njuki&rsquo;s. &ldquo;However, whether Njuki will translate what he has done in his constituency if elected governor is a another issue altogether,&rdquo; Mugambi said.Mugambi says that Njuki&rsquo;s clout in Jubilee has drastically reduced because he underestimated Miriti, who has since proven he is no push over.&ldquo;The Jubilee governor nominee will probably come from Chuka. But there is a possibility of either Miriti or Njuki running as an independent candidate,&rdquo; Mugambi said.In terms of campaigns financing, Mugambi says Ragwa will not feel a pinch because he controls a lot of resources as the incumbent.&ldquo;However, this might also have an negative impact at electorate because they may think the money he is using was meant for development. Miriti, too, is known to be a big spender in campaigns,&rdquo; Mugambi said. &ldquo;The deputy governor seat will balance the equation if Njuki picks a candidate who can mobilize Tharaka and add votes in his basket,&rdquo; Mugambi said. SENATE RACE In the Senate race, Kithure Kindiki will have an uphill task to counter business mogul Francis Kiambi and former advisor to the governor Ichenga Mugao.Although Mugao was the first to announce his bid to oppose Kindiki, Kiambi&rsquo;s entry has complicated the race. All the three come from Tharaka constituency. Kiambi, Ragwa&rsquo;s ally, has a lot of following in Tharaka and is said to have sponsored Kindiki&rsquo;s campaign but they fell out last year. Kindiki has told both Kiambi and Mugao to wait until 2022, when he will seek a national seat. He has indicated he would want to be Ruto&rsquo;s running mate.