Former police commissioner Matthew Iteere was yesterday summoned by a Nakuru court to testify in the trial of police imposter Joshua Waiganjo.Chief magistrate Joe Omido said the retired police boss should appear before him on June 5. He will be expected to tell the court whether he knew Waiganjo.Several people who have testified said Waiganjo had immense powers because he enjoyed the protection of Iteere.Former Njoro Anti-Stock Theft Unit boss Peter Ndwiga, who worked with Waiganjo, told the court two years ago that Waiganjo had the blessing of Iteere.He said he followed his instructions to the letter, although he doubted Waiganjo&rsquo;s rank. Yesterday, inspector Penninah Wambui of the National Youth Service told court how she gave Waiganjo Sh60,000 to secure a slot in the police force.The two had met in June 2012 at the Ministry of Public works in Gilgil. He said Waiganjo introduced himself as a senior superintendent, and an instructor at Londiani Forest College.Waiganjo asked Wambui, who was then working with the Kenya Rural Roads Authority, to help construct a road in Njoro, but she told him the equipment had been taken to another site. &ldquo;We later met when he came to our Nairobi office. He came with a khaki material and asked me to make him a police uniform. He left me the material, but I never made the uniform. During all three occasions we met, Waiganjo was in police uniform,&rdquo; Wambui told the court.She said Waiganjo took suits and shirts from her sisters premises in Nairobi worth Sh15,000 but never paid for them.&ldquo;My sister sells clothes. As we speak, he has a debt of Sh75,000,&rdquo; Wambui said.Another witness, superintendent Moses Sukuku, told the court Waiganjo accompanied the provincial security personnel to Baragoi after the attack that left at least 42 police officers dead. He said Waiganjo had taken his brother along in the high-profile flight, despite being a civilian. This happened on October 22, 2012.&ldquo;We took a flight at the Lanet Military Airstrip. All officers were in uniform, except one civilian who was introduced as Waiganjo&rsquo;s brother at the district commissioner&rsquo;s office in Samburu,&rdquo; Sukuku said.Waiganjo has been charged with impersonation of a police officer and possessing police regalia. He has been charged alongside former Rift Valley provincial police officer John M&rsquo;Mbijiwe and former Anti-Stock Theft Unit commandant Lemmy Ngugi. The two are facing abuse of office charges.The next hearing has been scheduled for June 5.