Western Jaguars team wrapped up the mini league competition with a 4-0 win against Mvita to earn promotion to this year’s men’s Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League yesterday at the Nairobi City Park Stadium. Jaguars and Bay Club, who were relegated from the top flight last, coastal-based Mvita, who were axed in 2015 and second tier Multimedia University—were all eyeing the single slot to replace Wazalendo Youth in the top tier. Wazalendo Youth alongside Technical University of Kenya, qualified for the Premier League last season, having emerged top in the national league but the former turned down the promotion to remain in the lower tier. The mini-league, which was played on the round-robin format, saw the side coached by Michael Malungu, beat Bay Club 4-0, trounce Multimedia 3-1 before wrapping up the three-day event with a 4-0 win over Mvita yesterday. First half goal from coach-cum-player Michael Malungu in the 30th minute and second half goals from Ken Ashimasi (44), Kelvin Muranji(56) and Ian Inziani’s 70th minute field goal was enough to help the Kakamega-based outfit record a deserved win. In an interview, Jaguars coach Malungu said he was happy the team is back in the top tier. The tactician said they are not new in the top tier and they will do whatever it takes to remain there. He said he is happy the 2017 league will be played on a home and away basis unlike last season. “The five players we have brought on board this season have and will definitely make impact in the squad. We lost some of our key players to other teams before the last season and this might have contributed to our dismal performance. However, I am happy we have beefed up the squad and we are ready for this season. We want to build on this going forward as our target is to finish in top four.” He added: “We are self supporting outfit and we have financial hiccups. I therefore call upon people of goodwill to come on board and support us,” said the former national team player. The five new players include right half Ian Inziani from Masinde Muliro University, full back Antony Musilwa (Moi University), University of Eldoret duo of left half Emmanuel Cheruiyot and forward Edwin Keter and goalkeeper Peter Wanzala from Misingu High School.