The state is banking on the Ajira Digital Programme to find online jobs for a million youthThe ICT ministry in November last year launched the Ajira Digital Programme, an initiative that aims to connect more than a million youth to online jobs. CHARLES KERICH spoke to Information CS Joe Mucheru about the feasibility of the project.Many people doing online freelance work say they were just fine without the government. Why has the government decided to get involved?Mucheru: It is doing well for a small number of people. If we have millions of people out of work and it is only about 40,000 people currently able to work online, then the impact is not there. There is so much work available. As we speak, on just one platform, there are over 700,000 tasks to be done today. So we should not fear that the government&rsquo;s entry is going to affect those people. The reality is that we are going to make everybody else aware and take advantage and make Kenya the capital city of freelancers in the world.What is the philosophy behind the Ajira Digital Programme?The world and the workplace are changing. In the past, people would go to a specific office, work there, close and go home. They wouldn&rsquo;t even carry their work home. We changed, such that people could work in dispersed offices. Then we moved on to where people could outsource work to others. Later, we went to offshoring, where you could take the work and give it to people in other countries. The current trend is that companies take the work they have, and instead of hiring people, they break it into tasks, put it online and allow anybody online to complete it.It is a lot more efficient than hiring people, where you need to get them insurance, desks, airtime &mdash; so many things. If you take the same jobs, which can actually be done by people even in their own homes, and post them on a platform, and someone provides their own connectivity, computer and training, then they understand what needs to be done and can complete the task.It is cheaper for the company, and you don't have to travel through traffic, and you can work both nationally and internationally. As a business also, it means you can hire a thousand people at once for a specific task. Once they have finished that, they go on and do something else. We are calling it 'on-demand workers'. It means then, because this work is growing and increasing, the workers have multiple jobs that they can be doing, which gives them a lot more stability than having one job, where you can be made redundant and have to go look for another one.Are the one million jobs you are hoping to create realistic, or is it a pipe dream?As a country, we are getting about a million people coming into the job market every year, and we have to be able to do this. But from a digital and technology point of view, the number of jobs coming in are much more than that on an annual basis. And Kenya can lead in that space. In fact, we expect many more, but we are starting with a target of a million.Are you creating a platform or just raising awareness about the existence of this digital freelance work?The challenges for people getting into this job market are awareness, as not many people were aware of it; ability to have devices they can actually use; and connectivity. So we have different programmes.In terms of awareness, we have created the ajiradigital.go.ke website, where you can go and get information about the online work, where the work is and how you can actually access the work. We now have about 10,000 people that have come on to the site, and our aim is to work with the 40,000 people already working online. They will train them and mentor them, with each one taking five or so people for about three months, after which those people can work on their own and train others. Once people start, they tend to find that there is so much work, they bring in a few apprentices for themselves. All we are doing as a government is trying to accelerate the process by creating awareness.We are putting up constituency innovation hubs through the CDF and MPs, where we are providing free WiFi and some devices in every constituency. Right now, they have approval for up to four centres, where the CDF and the MP provide a centre where the youth can go. We are really just kick-starting the process so that people know where they can go and be trained.And what kind of work will they do?There are many kinds of work, for example, translation. People have a lot of programmes they are working on, but you need to put subtitles and translate. There is also transcription work, writing work, development work, design work, office automation or administration work, call centre work, among others. So, based on the demand, we will provide the kind of training they need and then we leave them. We want the private sector to be the engine of growth. Innovation and growth is not going to be from the government. But that said, if we have, for example, a group of people who are, let's say, qualified in translation, now we know. From our procurement process, we can now go out to these people and also actually provide work as government. Then the country begins to become more digital and everybody understands how to use technology for work. You don't have to work so many hours; you can work four hours a day and still earn enough and then be able to do other things. It gives people even more freedom.All this is underpinned by mobile connectivity and availability of Internet connection. Connectivity is something we have been working on as the government. We have put national fibre-optic cable across the country, we have licensed 2G, 3G and even 4G operators. So we have connectivity. If you look at how many people are using Facebook, Twitter and all that, people are using the Internet already. Even though we don't have 100 per cent coverage in the country, it does not mean we cannot start. The ones who start, where we are providing the free WiFi in the constituencies, will be able to work throughout because the WiFi will be available 200 metres around where it is set up. Today, some network operators provide unlimited internet for about Sh35 a day. A bottle of water is about Sh50. Which means Internet is cheaper than water in some places. Whereas I understand it is not the same for everybody and even in some places we are facing drought, once we have more people using the infrastructure and services, we can always expand. So we are taking one step at a time and we will get to a tipping point, where this will happen on its own in a big way.Have we created an environment conducive for venture capitalists to invest in technology-driven companies?Even without government intervention, we already have local and international companies that have been investing. Companies like KuHustle, Cloud Factory and Crowdsource Africa have already been involved in these platforms and are generating work. We are making it easier, ensuring there will be quality workers available. When they see that that the government itself is keen on making this happen, and we are making it happen across the whole country, interesting opportunities will arise.One of the companies listed in the Ajira website is iWriter, which already seems overloaded and oversupplied. How long will the demand last?The general trend globally is that this work is increasing and growing. In fact, as we create a single digital market in Africa through Smartafrica, we are going to have even more work than we can handle internally. Yes, some companies may be shrinking and blocking IPs because of challenges in, maybe, the quality of workers or ability of payments to be made into the country. Some of them have said Kenyan authorities are not accepting payments into the country and when they do, there too many questions about where the money is coming from. Those are things we are currently fixing, but the trend globally is that this is growing and it is an area we want to lead as Kenya. I don't have any hesitations that this area will continue to grow and expand.What do you want the young people and companies to do?The young people should know that online work is work, which means it is not easy. You have to take time, to understand it, to invest and spend time specialising and improving your skills, the same way our athletes go out there and exercise to win, that's the same thing I am expecting in terms of work. For the business community, we have very qualified people in the market that they can outsource work to; you don't always have to employ someone. If it is an accounting person you need, you probably need them for just the last week of the month, but because of the current structures, you pay them for the whole month. There are ways of being able to facilitate, where the companies don't even hire these people. If you could only hire someone for the specific time that you need, then it is cheaper for you. That person can be hired by many people and we can actually see growth. Our intention is to make sure there is full awareness of how the businesses can come in and where the opportunities are, so the government itself is not the only one that is engaging. We have a lot of vernacular stations. People can take content from them, translate them and come up with real content translated to Kiswahili and English, which can then be searchable, and which you can monetise. You can come up with very many interesting opportunities. There are many areas where we can see innovation and growth as we continue to grow this programme.What next for the Ajira Digital Programme?We have started and it is a long journey. The first step was to identify the opportunity, the second is to give the youth in the space a chance to come together for mentorship and training. Then we&rsquo;ll give apprenticeship opportunities for three months for people to develop skills. We will shortly be putting the opportunities up in a space, let me not say which space now, but we will be communicating that in our platforms. Once the youth are trained and working, then we will get them to multiply. You start with 10,000 who train five each and you have 50,000 who train another five, and so on until we reach the desired numbers in another 12 months. So we have a clear plan, and that is not where it will end. In five years, we expect that no youth in the country should have zero opportunities where they can go and earn. Some of the jobs that are online are simply to classify a receipt; to say this receipt was for meals, this other one was for fuel, and so on. Some of the tasks are not even mentally challenging, it is just about connectivity and ability.Of the 10,000 people in our database, over 90 per cent of them even have their own laptops and 98 per cent their own smartphones, so people already have the technology and tools they need to work, and the prices of those are going down. So the plan is to train people, get them qualified, get them to mentor others, and make it something the country can use to grow and expand.You also launched the Studio Mashinani, where the youth can record music. Is the creative sector part of the job creation plan?Talent is also work, which means that even in the Ajira Digital Programme, there are people who have creative talents, whether it is music or theatre or arts, that can be used online. We have created a new channel on KBC called Y254, purely for the youth to put up their content to show others what they are capable of. The channel is linked to YouTube, so they can have their content also available on the Internet and monetise it. Futhermore, it is also connected to DStv, so you will be able to get the same channel on that infrastructure. We have gone further and now we have studios in Kisumu, Mombasa and now three in Nairobi, where the youth can actually go and record music; in some places they can also do video. We have a group that is recording and testing, and they are saying that for the first time, they are able to have four people record at once, whereas before, the only other place they could do that was in South Africa. They are quite pleased with the infrastructure we are putting in place. If there is good uptake, it is our plan to have these studios in every county. Their content will all be available on the KBC channels, whether it is radio, vernacular radio, TV and so on.