An Italian man who runs several companies in Mombasa and Kilifi has been termed key to the arrest of the four suspected drug barons extradited to the US. A US drugs enforcement agency officer said businessman Paolo Basta&nbsp;informed police of the whereabouts of the suspects after he was told he risked being linked to drug trafficking syndicate. He then took part in an operation that led to the arrest of Baktash and Ibrahim Akasha, who are the sons of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha, and foreigners Vijay Goswami and Gulam Hussein. Investigations by the Star have established that Basta&nbsp;pretended to have been briefing Baktash on business details before the arrest. He was later released without the suspect's knowledge. "He was Baktash's trusted man. He transferred arms for him some years back from Lamu. He also stored large quantities of drugs for Baktash&nbsp;&nbsp;in his house," said the officer. "We have gathered a lot from him. It is now upon Kenyan agencies to take action against him. We were only interested in these individuals." The source added that the businessman's sister-in-law,&nbsp;identified as Patel, was Baktash's mistress in 2014/5&nbsp;when they were caught by the DEA at the voyager house. Basta took food to Baktash when he was remanded at Port police station, prompting police to track him down and establish his motives."We have shared a lot with the Kenyan authorities. We hope they will get a good lead on this soon," said the officer. President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Tuesday that h is government will eliminate drug barons who have wiped out the Coast population.Uhuru noted that the county has been turned into a drugs capital so immediate action must be taken.More on this:&nbsp;Kenya will eliminate drug barons wiping out Coast, Uhuru warnsThe passport belonging to Italian business Paolo Basta.The agent added that a man identified as Faisal Akasha was also part of the drug trafficking syndicate. "We went to Baktash's house in 2014 to arrest him but he escaped. He is in the syndicate. He was secretly being sheltered by Basta at his brother-in-law&nbsp; Thiku Patel's house (brother of Baktash mistress) for more than two months," he said. The four suspects were arrested by a team of multi-agency detectives and secretly extradited to the US through the JKIA in Nairobi. They were seen at the CID headquarters in the city and processed quickly in light of orders issued by Mombasa&nbsp;justice Njoki Mwangi. A source said the four were accompanied by Anti-Narcotics head Hamisi Massa and boarded Omnio - the US plane which landed at the airport last week with more than 90 deportees. More on this: [VIDEO] Akasha sons, two foreigners extradited to US - police sourceThe suspects' lawyers - Dan Arshack (New York), Indian Zulfi and Kenyan Cliff Ombeta - &nbsp;want the agencies involved not to freeze their bank accounts and assets. "I met them yesterday evening. We will look for ways to work amicably for the accounts and assets not to be frozen,"&nbsp;Arshack said in a phone interview. &nbsp; It is expected that relatives, including the wives of Goswami and Hussein, will fly in today to safeguard their assets and property. "We are hopeful that all agencies will cooperate, "said Ombeta. Both the US Department of Justice and the Drug Enforcement Administration confirmed the arrival of the&nbsp;Akashas and the two foreigners through statements on their websites. Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara said: &ldquo;As alleged, the four defendants who arrived yesterday in New York ran a Kenyan drug trafficking organisation with global ambitions." The four were charged at a New York court on Tuesday for&nbsp; "participating in a massive global drug trafficking enterprise that includes the leader of a well-known organised crime family in Africa". Jacob Kanake,&nbsp; Mombasa urban DCI boss, said they will also seek warrants for the arrest of the four over gun drama, involving&nbsp;tycoon Ali Punjani, at a club in Nyali on New Year's Eve. Read: Mombasa tycoon Ali Punjani denies fighting Akashas at barAlso read: Three Akasha sons and foreigner deny fighting with Mombasa tycoon Punjani