Just what formula does NASA hope to use to name its presidential candidate? Corridors is told by insiders that while all the four principals, Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) believe they should be the candidate, their technical teams think the egos of some of them could destroy the group. On Saturday, questions were raised as to why Wetang&rsquo;ula repeatedly shouted at exuberant diehard Raila supporters, yet their greatest rival is Jubilee. ***** Is it the right time for politicians to start campaigning or are the IEBC bosses fast asleep on the job? Politicians have extended the one-month voter listing campaign opportunity and continued with intensive campaigns. Banners used on roadshow trucks encourage the public to register as voters have been replaced with the aspirants&rsquo; own portraits and are traversing the country, wooing voters. For instance, a female Dagoretti North aspirant over the weekend was spotted traversing the constituency in a convoy of trucks with music at full blast, urging residents to vote for her. All eyes are now on IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to give direction, especially taking action against politicians engaged in early campaigns, because it violates the law. ***** Is the government aware of what is happening at the Huduma Sacco? Corridors has learned members cannot access their shares or even acquire loans since the management has spent all the available money on amorphous &lsquo;Sacco investments&rsquo;. The officials are said to have invested in a Sh18 million facility, but refused to provide documents for audit on grounds that are &lsquo;very confidential&rsquo;. It is said when members threatened to formally protest to the relevant authorities, among them the Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority and Ministry of Industrialisation, two officials told them off and said they will bribe the authorities blind. Members are now stranded because they cannot access loans and are at the mercy of rogue sacco officials. It is said the Huduma Sacco has 1,000 members, a large number of whom work at the MP Shah Hospital, Parklands, Nairobi. They are now calling on the relevant regulatory bodies to intervene in their plight. ***** As the nation draws closer to the polls, political realignments and shifting allegiance are raging like the proverbial bush fire. Word has it that Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka has lost support on the ground for failing to deliver and his move to defend the seat on the Jubilee ticket. Corridors has been told an MP who has been supporting him since 2013 was recently heard telling his colleagues at Parliament that he can longer afford to be seen to associate with Lusaka.