No sex for lovers or spouses without voter's cards.No boda boda and matatu rides.No food or drink.No Holy Communion.No bursary, no medical care, no county services.These are just a few of the disincentives &mdash; and a few incentives &mdash; used, proposed and threatened to get all eligible voters to register by the end of nationwide listing on February 14. The electoral agency aims to sign up six million new voters, but by the end of the second week, only 1.5 million registered nationwide. Apathy is a big problem.Just two more weeks to go. The heat is on.The fiercely contested general election in August will likely be determined by turnout, so desperate politicians and their cronies are pulling out all the stops.They are wielding sticks and dangling carrots. Mostly sticks.Voter 'sensitisation' rallies are circuses, with pleading, haranguing politicians the barkers, as children are taken out of school to sing get-out-and-register songs.There's also intimidation and allegations of sabotage and voter importation.The registration frenzy has gotten so bad in some places that authorities have warned against harassment and ordered police to arrest bullies. Arrests have been made.Hired youths are blocking roads, checking for voter's cards and dragging the unregistered to listing centres. They have blocked entrances to markets until people produce a voter's card. They have rummaged through women's handbags in search of cash and voter's cards.For the first time, registration centres will be set up in prisons. Chiefs are tracking down migrating pastoralists to deliver their IDs. There's talk of setting up registration centres near or in wedding and funeral venues. Some centres have been set up in "free" medical camps, where treatment isn't exactly free.All the measures are coercive, including friendly persuasion. A few proposals and measures are amusing (such as, no sex). Most are not, some are dangerous and many are illegal. Many haven't taken off.Voting is a right and a choice, it's not mandatory. And you don't have to carry a voter's card around.However, many Kenyan politicians make it sound compulsory, warning of dire consequences if rivals win, ushering in the end of days, dystopian corruption and a Mt Kenya dress code in which men will be forced to wear shorts.The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has warned politicians not to use illegal means to get people to register. It's voluntary.Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo wants to make voting mandatory, as in Australia.The low registration turnout is so troubling that yesterday, Parliament debated proposals to induce people to register, including barring them from joining the army and giving job preference to voters. It was also suggested that the ID card itself should be the voter's card. THE CARROTSPoliticians are taking advantage of the doctor's strike and healthcare crisis. Free medical camps have been set up in Nakuru and Nyeri, where treatment is linked to registration. First, see a doctor, then register &mdash; sometimes the other way around.In Kahuru, Iria-ini ward, Nyeri, Anastasia Maina says she's grateful she was treated and given drugs after she registered to vote.In Gatundu South, MP Moses Kuria is paying his people to register to voters &mdash; they get Sh50 to buy water during hot weather. He also pays boda boda riders Sh50 to deliver people to register."Hot weather dehydrates people, so they're afraid to venture outside and walk long distances in search of BVR kits," he posted. "This offer only valid during this dry spell."The move was met with derision as Kenyans asked why they should be paid so little to vote for someone who rakes in vast sums.In Butere, Kakamega, where registration is low, anyone taking a friend to register is to be rewarded with Sh50 for every new voter. Marama West MCA Habil Nanjendo says he's paying from his own pocket. "When you lead your friend to register anywhere, call me so I can send my PA to give you Sh50."Drinkers who haven't paid their bar tabs &mdash; and deposited IDs as collateral to quaff on credit &mdash; have gotten them back in Nyeri and elsewhere. Bar owners have been ordered to release IDs so drinkers can register.Bar owner Joseph Wachira released more than 500 IDs withheld over Sh700,000 in debts. As many as 2,000 IDs have been released in Nyeri, representing Sh2 million.THE STICKSDeputy President William Ruto, Cord leader Raila Odinga, Mombasa woman representative Mishi Mboko and Kilifi&rsquo;s Aisha Jumwa have all urged women not to have sex with men who don't register to vote. The same goes for unregistered women.To hoots and laughs, Ruto told a crowd in Nyamira this week, "Many pretty women know men who don't have voter's cards. Don't go on a date with them ... If they are not registered, they may be lacking other important things, so tell them to get lost."Raila: "These beautiful ladies, men should not seduce them if they do not have IDs and register as voters. Women should also ensure men register as voters."Mboko: "Sex is a powerful weapon to make reluctant men rush to register as voters. Women, this is your best strategy for you. Deny them sex until they show their voter's card." Her own husband has registered, she said.In Embu, Anglican Rev Isaiah Njagi, says that after the registration ends, he will deny Holy Communion to anyone who hasn't registered."After this month, during Easter, I will demand to see voter's cards before I can administer the Eucharist. On Sunday following the election, you must show me the mark to show you have voted ... Failure to vote is what allows crooked leaders to get into leadership."In Siaya, county youths are barring entry to markets if traders and residents don't show cards. They blocked the market in Ramba on Sunday, in Ngiya on Tuesday and promised to block the vegetable and variety goods markets every day until registration ends. An IEBC registration desk is set up in the markets.Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has urged PSVs to reject passengers without voter's cards. He told all departments not to help anyone without a voter's card."I am appealing to boda boda, tuk tuk and matatu drivers to refuse to carry passengers who don't have voter's cards because voting is the only way we will change our destiny," he said.But the government says no resident has been denied help."This is just political pressure from leaders getting people to register. No one has been denied any service," Joho's communications director Richard Chacha said.Still, bureaucrats and staff could always drag their feet when 'helping' needy people without voter&rsquo;s cards."Why would an elected leader ask women to boycott sex? Why would a governor ask PSVs not to carry passengers without a card? This is backward thinking. They should come up with better ways to lure people to register," Joseph Kamenya, a registered voter in Nyali, said."No one should be coerced to register. You can choose to register or to stay away from politics because it's your right," said Pauline Wawuda, of Ziwa la Ng'ombe ward in Mombasa.Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya also says county services will be denied to people without voter's cards. He said no one should be allowed on public transport without a card. There is no evidence, however, that anyone has turned down good money.In Kisumu and parts of Migori, hired youths have searched women's handbags, harassed residents, set up illegal roadblocks and demanded to see boda bodas' and motorists' voter cards. Trouble has been reported in Manyatta, Kondele, Carwash and Kilo.REGISTERING IS VOLUNTARYCounty commissioner Mohamed Maalim said police will arrest anyone intimidating residents. One youth was arrested in Kondele after he was caught searching handbags. Those without cards were dragged to the nearest registration centre, while others continued to search handbags."Registering as a voter is voluntary. No one is allowed to force anyone," Maalim said.&ldquo;Hooliganism and erection of illegal roadblocks in the name of inspecting registered voters will not be tolerated,&rdquo; Nyanza regional coordinator Wilson Njega said.Home Bay commissioner Kassim Farrah said: "There is no law that a citizen must carry the voter's card everywhere. They may opt to keep it at home."Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti, a candidate for governor, has urged parents to deny food to children who have not registered to vote.In Bungoma, parents have also been urged not to feed 18-year-old sons and daughters who don't register. Nominated MCA Martin Wanyonyi says deprivation will ensure youths register.In Kakamega, Mavoko MP Patrick Makau says he ordered the constituency office to deny a bursary to anyone &mdash; no matter how needy &mdash; without a voter's card. He ordered all CDF officers to vet beneficiaries.The Murang'a association of bar and hotel owners says non-registered patrons will be barred &mdash; they must show voter's cards to get a drink.James Waweru, association chairman said, "Just like you cannot drive without a driving licence, then you cannot drink without a voter's card. Hakuna starehe bila kura."No reports so far. Civic-minded businessmen are reluctant to turn down good money.