Several groups at the Coast want the government to allow the importation of Starlicide, a highly poisonous chemical, to eradicate the Indian house crow that has become a menace.Starlicide is a chemical that is highly toxic to European starlings and gulls, but less toxic to other birds or to mammals such as humans and pets. The Indian house crow, black in colour, originates from India. In Kenya, It is only found at the Coast, but has been reported to be moving inland and has been spotted in Makindu, Makueni county. The population of the bird is estimated to be about 1.5 million at the Coast, with close to 600,000 in Mombasa. Bird experts say there is no known benefit of the Indian house crow. &ldquo;It is a highly intelligent bird and very territorial,&rdquo; bird expert Kelvin Mazera said. It is destructive, irritating and preys on other bird species.The stakeholders, led by Little Kenya Gardens Ltd, including tourism industry players, say the crow may finish other bird species like it has done in Djibouti. &ldquo;This might affect our tourism industry, because some tourists come to watch different species of birds and are not interested in the Indian house crows. If the crows decimate the other bird species like they did in Djibouti, it might affect our industry,&rdquo; Malindi Residents&rsquo; Association representative Robin Hollister said.South Coast Residents&rsquo; Association representative David Kihumbu said, &ldquo;For the time being, we can use other methods like trapping them and killing them.&rdquo; He urged the KWS to declare the Indian house crow an invasive species and alert the public about the intended eradication.On Friday, during a workshop on eradication of the Indian house crow in Mombasa, the stakeholders said use of Starlicide has been effective in the US. The workshop brought together different stakeholders, including the National Museums of Kenya, the Kenya Wildlife Service, the Mombasa government, the Kenya Airports Authority, different hoteliers and bird experts from Nature Kenya.