Spanish cuisine is less known than Italian or French, yet it is one of the most varied and dynamic. The Picazzo Restaurant at The Hub, Karen mall, is bringing a deeper understanding of this particular gastronomy.The restaurant offers meat dishes from central Spain, world-famous paella rice dish from the east, pork dishes from the west, seafood from different provinces along the extensive Spanish coastline, and large spring onions called calcots, a much-loved winter food from the Catalunya region.Picazzo is a combination of a stylish casual, fine dining and a pub, with a menu based on a wide selection of tapas. Tapas are Spanish savoury appetisers that started off as bar snacks but have now become a standard meal. Typically, tapas are eaten family-style, where everyone shares several plates of different dishes. In Spain, the potato is the starch of choice thanks to the centuries of connection with South America, where the tuber originated. The Picazzo starter tapas are mostly potato based, such as the potato omelette, Spanish potato salad and Huervos Rotos, a dish of potatoes, eggs and blood sausage. From the croquetas, bread-crumbed potato balls, I particularly liked the squid croquetas with a creamy inside and a dark exterior from the use of real squid ink. For those who prefer a standard main course, the grilled steak is quite popular. For seafood lovers, the steamed lobster or the Zarzuela de Pescados y Marisco stew of shellfish and white beans are recommended.Chef Hector Boo likes to experiment with new dishes. He recently featured creative local dishes, such as chocolate samosas and Mursik Salad, containing dark mursik cheese inspired by traditional fermented sheep&rsquo;s milk.The wine selection is predominantly Spanish and includes the popular Sangria wine cocktail. From the dessert menu, the doughnut-like Churros, sprinkled with icing sugar and served with hot chocolate sauce, was my favourite. Picazzo Restaurant is open daily for lunch and dinner.CONTACTS: +254 714 653355OPEN HOURS: 11am&ndash;11pmStar Rating: 4/5