Tusker coach George Nsimbe remained optimistic that the Kenyan champions can finish the job in the Mauritius capital after seeing his side held to a 1-1 draw by their league winners Port Louis in the first leg of the preliminary round of the CAF Champions League.Nsimbe, who had a full strength side after top players Allan Wanga, Humphrey Mieno and David Oklelo got their documents hours before the clash, rued the lack of cohesion in his side and a couple of missed chances as the brewers let slip a first half lead to draw with their unheralded opponents.&ldquo;I still believe we can go to Mauritius and come out with a good result. Today everything didn&rsquo;t seem to work the way we had prepared. The passes were off when we were in the opponents&rsquo; half and we didn&rsquo;t put them under the pressure we needed to force mistakes and capitalise on them. We made one simple mistake and they punished is. That is the way it is at this level but it is not the end of the road for us,&rdquo; said Nsimbe.A stunning free-kick midway through the half from Ugandan left back Shafik Batambuze put Tusker ahead before Mieno missed an opportunity to double his side&rsquo;s lead as his side-footed effort went agonisingly wide.Port Louis came back rejuvenated in the second half and levelled matters when Ephrem Guikan reacted first to bundle home the rebound after goalkeeper Okello failed to hold onto a fierce effort from Andrisoa Raniandranasana. Tusker will now need to win the away game this weekend if they are to proceed to the first round, where Sudanese giants, Al Hilal await them.Meanwhile, Ulinzi Stars will bank on the availability of star striker John Makwata as they seek to overturn a one goal deficit in the second leg of their CAF Confederation Cup against Libyan side, Al Ahli Benghazi. Makwata missed the first leg played in Cairo as his passport was held in South Africa, where he was among the 18 Sportpesa Premier League players, who were seeking visas to travel to the UK for their All Stars match against Hull City in two weeks time.His absence angered the Ulinzi officials with Ulinzi vice chairman, Joe Birgen relaying his frustration on the club official portal. &ldquo;They (organisers) had promised the passport would be back on Wednesday but now we hear it is still in South Africa. We are very disappointed because more so, no one has talked to us as a team or apologised to us because of this inconvenience,&rdquo; Birgen said.&ldquo;This is an important game for us and having our best players is a priority. We have incurred costs because we had already purchased tickets and now, Sportpesa have to refund us that money,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;As a team we are not happy with this and we want an apology. We are contemplating pulling our players out of the trip,&rdquo; Major Birgen added. The return leg of the match will be played on February 18 and it is not clear yet whether the passport will be released.