The 1994 Safari Rally winner and multiple Kenyan national champion Ian Duncan is the latest entrant as big names continued to trickle in for 2017 East African Safari Classic Rally.The 2009 and 2013 Safari Classic champion will drive his traditional Caroty Ford Capri navigated by his longstanding partner Amaar Slatch.The rally legend, who is also Kenya&rsquo;s best all-round motorsports competitor, will renew his rivalry with former WRC champion Stig Blomqvist, who incidentally is the defending champion. Blomqvist will feature in the Safari Classic under the Tuthill Porsche livery. Duncan will also fight it out with South African Geoff Bell, one of the stalwarts of the game on the continental arena with a penchant for the Safari Classic.East African Safari Rally Limited clerk of course, Raju Kishinani was all smiles upon receiving Duncan&rsquo;s entry.&ldquo;Duncan has really captivated the Safari Classic since inception and remains one of the drivers to watch. There is always some excitement of sorts whenever big names sign up for the Safari Classic and we should have a great event later in the year,&rdquo; said Raju. Duncan s previously wowed Classic Rally fans with a 1967 Ford Mustang before acquiring a Capri. Duncan, who won the Safari Rally in a Toyota in 1994 when it was a round of the World Rally Championship, remains the country&rsquo;s favourite local hero. He drove the 5-litre Mustang in the 2007 event but retired from third place with gearbox failure. &ldquo;Duncan has truly savoured a drive in the Safari Classic and I am sure he&rsquo;s really looking forward to driving the Capri which will no doubt be one of the main attraction,&rdquo; Kishinani went on.Kenyan veteran guided his Ford Mustang to an emphatic victory in 2009. He repeated the feat in the 2013 edition in what went down as the most dramatic rivaly that saw him beat Swede Blomqvist to the coveted crown.At the time, Blomqvist (Porsche 911) and Ian Duncan (Ford Capri V8) started the last day separated by just nine seconds with Duncan possessing the miniscule advantage. On the first competitive section&mdash;a run back through the Taita Hills&mdash;these two drivers almost incredibly set equal fastest time with the stopwatch unable to separate them. Thus the gap remained nine seconds in favour of the Kenya driver.But on the second section, the tide of fortune turned once again and this time it was in Blomqvist&rsquo;s favour as he beat Duncan by 47 seconds thus led the rally by 38 seconds with just one competitive section before reaching the finish ramp at the Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa.However, there was one major twist of fate still remaining in this extraordinary endurance rally for classic cars when Blomqvist punctured on the very last section and lost four minutes and the lead. Duncan and Amaar then won the Safari Classic for the second time in four years.