THAT Deputy President William Ruto has been missing in action is a matter that many people have noticed and have been discussing increasingly loudly. In fact, what raised curiosity even more is the fact that the DP was missing from government meetings with the Egyptian delegation led by President Farah el Sisi that was in town from Friday. It unclear why the energetic and hardworking DP had gone missing until yesterday, when his son drove him to a church in Karen.*****IF you thought former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo was not serious about kicking out Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba 'Marksman' Murkomen, think again. The former top cop is going full speed ahead with his Senate bid and has announced his official launch for Saturday this week. The move, according to many in the area, has caused political panic among his competitors. Kimaiyo has escalated his political activities in the county, and has been approaching youth, women, elders and professionals to strategies on how to win on August 8. One such meeting was held last Friday at a popular restaurant on Aga Khan Walk, Nairobi, where attendants were overheard planning against Murkomen.****Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto's party CCM is said to be piling pressure on NASA to name ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi as its flagbearer as a condition for joining the giant opposition outfit. The party has been using its youth wing to issue statements that indicate that if Mudavadi is not be the presidential candidate, they will have no option but to support President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election on August 8. A small bird also whispers to Corridors that Kanu is also pushing the same line of thought, arguing that "Mudavadi is non-polarizing and liked by all tribes".******A storm is brewing at the Water Resources Management Authority over a tender awarded to a company to drill five exploratory and production boreholes in Northern Kenya, yet the company does not possess a Class A drilling licence from the Water ministry. While the said company has already been awarded the tender, it has now moved to correct the anomaly, by applying for the requisite Class A license from the ministry to undertake the multi-billion-shilling borehole drilling project.****A deputy governor from a Nyanza county has procured the services of two young men who are pimping for him. On Saturday, the deputy governor, dressed in a silk suit, was spotted entering a restaurant on Standard Street, Nairobi, where his prey was waiting. They walked out together and drove away to an unknown destination. The senior county official, we are told, pays the pimp up to Sh10,000 "per catch", depending on unclear criteria.*****