ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday said the claims that opposition strongholds had low turnout during the mass voter registration are a narrative propagated by Jubilee so it can rig the August 8 poll.The former Sabatia MP expressed confidence that NASA will emerge victorious as the counties in its perceived support bases registered many voters as per the IEBC register.&ldquo;On what basis an area is categorised as Jubilee or NASA only the originators of this lie know. Perceived Jubilee areas like Rift Valley are myths because of the cosmopolitan nature of the region. One community in the region is being used to define the percentages that hide the actual figures,&rdquo; Mudavadi said in a statement.He said the narrative is based on misinterpretation of facts and has been created deliberately by Jubilee to prepare the country for a rigged election.&ldquo;Kenyans should know that stealing elections will be justified on the strengths of this myth of Jubilee areas [having] high voter registration turnout. This is a bogey meant to justify intended theft,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.The former Deputy Prime Minister said the IEBC provisional figures show that new voters in Western, Nyanza, Coast and Lower Eastern are about 2 million out of the 3.5 million national tally. He said the figures indicate that NASA is ahead of Jubilee in the numbers game.&ldquo;It makes no sense to compare a voter turnout of one out of expected two to another area turnout of three out of expected 10,&rdquo; Mudavadi said, referring to percentages of voter turnout. He said the narrative is meant to dampen the spirits of NASA supporters, but added Jubilee will not succeed. Mudavadi said, &ldquo;We urge NASA supporters not be deceived.&rdquo; Mudavadi said the IEBC based its potential voters of six million people on those with IDs but hasn&rsquo;t crosschecked whether some registered elsewhere, other than their home counties. &ldquo;For instance, Western region has extreme rural-urban migration and supplies labour nationally. It is possible that despite registering in their home counties for IDs, they chose to register as voters wherever they are domiciled,&rdquo; he said. Mudavadi urged Kenyans to push or change through the ballot.