Safaricom chief executive Bob Collymore, who is typically reticent in his public comments, said this: "It sends a really worrying message to international investors in investing in the country ... It would imply that this is no longer a safe place." This comment was made in response to the leak of a report commissioned by Kenya's telecoms regulator which allegedly recommends breaking Safaricom up into separate telecoms and financial services businesses because the firm is too dominant. Safaricom has 26 million subscribers, and of course its innovative M-Pesa mobile money platform. "It's a malicious act to leak such a damaging report without first consulting or at least sharing it with us," Collymore told Reuters. The leaked report comes two days after Jakoyo Midiwo, the deputy minority leader in Parliament, said he was proposing amendments to banking and communications laws to force Safaricom to separate M-Pesa. Further proposals are that Safaricom should place the 2G, 3G and 4G domiciled on its network onto a shared and regulated tower to benefit competitors. Collymore rejected the claim Safaricom is dominant and said any moves to clip its wings using the study commissioned by the regulator were designed to help rivals rather than consumers. Collymore said the publication of the leaked draft had already undermined foreign investors' confidence in the East African country as an investment destination. Let me compare this to Athletics. It's like going to David Rudisha and saying you are running too fast, from now on I want you to carry your closest competitor on your back. Why would anyone make such a proposal? We are a tiny country, a minnow even in the scheme of things. Safaricom has invested hundreds of millions of dollars, they have consistently made the right calls. So now we punish them for their success and reward failure. Just take a look at how rewarding failure works. Do I need list the failures? Ask yourself how much the rescues (because it is not a one time thing) of Uchumi, Pan Paper and all the others have cost you the taxpayer? That's what rewarding failure achieves &ndash; failing companies endlessly sucking out Kenya Inc's resources. Look around and ask yourself: Has Google (Alphabet) been considered too dominant? Of course not. Google succeeded. Yahoo did not. That's capitalism. Safaricom made an outsize bet on the information highway and on mobile money. They made those investments (hundreds of millions of dollars) in good faith. They would never have made those investments if Kenya Inc had told them then. Look folks, if you do well we are going to barge in and demand we take control of your infrastructure and open it to your competitors. Which brings me back to the captioned headline: "It sends a really worrying message to international investors in investing in the country...It would imply that this is no longer a safe place." And we have reached a point when we have to call a spade a spade. This is ''rogue'' policymaking; plain and simple, and inimical to the national interest. These are heavy charges to lay but I am laying them. The Nairobi stock market was the worst performing stock market in the world, anywhere in the world in January. Ask yourself why? It's plain as day. It's because of poor, sub-optimal policymaking. The banking rate cap is a debacle, plain and simple. Ask yourself when will it be reversed? By the time it's reversed the damage will be done, if it's not already. We need to decide right now whether we want to be a part of the international capital markets (where we have sold a few billion dollars of bonds) and attract foreign investors into our markets (more than 50 per cent of our stock market is foreign-owned). And if we do (because we don't have a choice) then we need to get with the programme and get with it now. Safaricom is a Kenyan champion. M-Pesa is a champion known around the world. It has a huge value for Kenya Inc allowing us to re-invent ourselves as capable of being part of the 21st century. We need more Kenyan champions. It's as simple as that.