Kenya's six top-tier lenders will be the hardest hit by the proposed Banking (Amendment) Bill, 2017 that seeks to include fees and commissions in the cap on loan charges, analysts warned.Economists at pan-African lender Ecobank Transnational in a research note said lenders, who are still adjusting to interest controls, will struggle to cope with the proposed law. The Banking (Amendment) Act, 2016, enforced last September, capped interest rates on loan at four percentage points above the 10 per cent Central Bank Rate. The law also requires the banks to pay a minimum of 70 per cent of CBR on term deposits. The researchers say banks made $215 million (about Sh22.29 billion under the prevailing foreign exchange rates) in fees and commissions from loans in the financial year ended 2015. The non-interest charges on loans largely comprise of legal, insurance and consultation fees. This is reflected in the Annual Percentage Rate, which captures the total cost of credit. The lenders adopted the APR framework from July 2014 to help customers accurately compare interest rates in different banks to make informed decisions.&ldquo;On average terms, banks take home about 90bps of loan value in fees and commissions. Below is a breakdown of average non-interest charges on loans and advances for the banking sector as at financial year 2015,&rdquo; the analysts say in a note. &ldquo;For the financial year 2016, we expect average non-interest charges to climb above 100bps on the implementation of the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2016 as banks sought to adjust upwards their fees on loans to compensate for the cap-triggered funded income haircuts.&rdquo;The upward adjustment, they argue, boosted the banks' non-interest loan charges by 10 to 15 per cent, but this will drop by between 40 and 50 per cent if the draft bill is enacted."We believe Kenyan banks may struggle to adjust to this piece of regulation and will likely exert more pressure to return-on-equity,&rdquo; they said. &ldquo;Tier-one banks will be the biggest losers-especially Equity Bank, KCB and the Co-operative Bank.&rdquo; Fees and commissions accounted for about 2.02 per cent of the value of loans from Equity and 1.37 per cent for KCB in 2015, according to the assessment by Ecobank's analysts. Co-operative's share was 1.07 per cent, Barclays' (0.97 per cent), CBA's (0.41 per cent) and StanChart's (0.27 per cent). The International Monetary Fund warned on January 26 that Kenya faces the risk of financial instability in coming years if it does not scrap the interest controls. &ldquo;Although the adverse effects of the controls are manageable in the near term, if maintained, they could potentially pose a risk to financial stability,&rdquo; IMF deputy managing director and acting chair Tao Zhang said in a statement. &ldquo;Therefore, it is essential to remove these controls, while taking steps to prevent predatory lending and increase competition and transparency of the banking sector.&rdquo; The Kenya Bankers Association says micro and small-sized lenders could be struggling to get loans from banks as a result of the rate cap.&ldquo;We have noted that the interest rates controls may have had an adverse impact on micro and small businesses in terms of loan approvals and disbursements," KBA director for marketing and communications Nuru Mugambi told the Star in an email last month.