Kenya Sevens strength and conditioning coach Ian Gibbons has resigned. The Englishman tendered his resignation mid last week, citing poor working conditions and lack of job security. &ldquo;We wish to confirm that Ian Gibbons has stepped down from his role as Kenya Sevens strength &amp; conditioning coach. We wish to thank him for his service during his time with the Kenya Sevens set up and wish him all the best in his future endeavours,&rdquo; confirmed a statement from Kenya Rugby Union. The KRU are currently making arrangements to fill position and will make an announcement in due course. Sources noted that Gibbons is likely to be replaced on an interim basis by former Kenya15&rsquo;s strength and conditioning coach Richard Ochieng, who currently handles the champions Kabras.Sources familiar with the situation, said Gibbons was unhappy with the current set up and lack of a professional environment within the team. He previously worked with English Rugby giants Saracens and Scarlets Rugby in the Pro 12 and Champions Cup which are professional set ups with access to players and excellent facilities on a daily basis unlike Kenya Sevens, where players don&rsquo;t train everyday.Gibbons will probably take up a deal with Wales women&rsquo;s Sevens in the same capacity as the strength and conditioning coach. Sources added that Gibbons was seen engaging to various teams during recent World Sevens series legs in Wellington and Sydney.Gibbons resignation leaves the strength and conditioning department in a poor state ahead of Las Vegas and Vancouver early next month. Gibbons is on record last month, admitting that the Kenyan players are operating at 30 percent while most core teams are at 70 -80 percent. &ldquo;We started the programme late and our players are not up to pace with the rest of the core sides in the world series. Hopefully, the players can be in peak condition by the time we get to April,&rdquo; Gibbons was quoted as saying.Team manager, Eric Ogweno, said there are no injuries to report and they expect to see an improvement in the team&rsquo;s fortunes after reviewing the performance from the past two tournaments. &ldquo;We have done through review of our mistakes in Wellington and Sydney and how we can improve,&rdquo; added Ogweno. Head coach Innocent Simiyu has hinted at making changes for the next two legs of the tournament with the likely recalls for Frank Wanyama, Martin Owila and Cyprian Kuto. Kenya face New Zealand, Argentina and Russia in Las Vegas.