The recent defection by Prof Sam Ongeri to Nasa has set people asking whether the Jubilee Party has any realistic chance in Kisii. Ongeri&rsquo;s defection was not just an act of political survival: It was an act of political defiance. There were certain political arrangements that did not seem to agree with him and so he walked out, more out of protest than out of principal. His defection, however, has weakened the hand of Jubilee and it remains to be seen what they intend to do about it. Ongeri is eyeing the Senatorial seat which he was beaten to by Chris Obure. Intensive campaigning led by Deputy President William Ruto, is a sign that the region is politically important to Jubilee. In the last election, Jubilee emerged with only two parliamentary seats in Kisii and all the rest including 70 per cent of the presidential vote, went to ODM. This time round, Nasa is angling to extend this lead.VOTE RICHThe Abagusii principally occupy two counties &mdash; Kisii and Nyamira. Although geographically tiny, the two counties have 14 constituencies, 58 county assembly seats and additional 39 nominated positions and 700,000 votes. That is quite a chunk, not counting the votes of the Kisiis living outside the two counties. The Kisii diaspora, is perhaps the most extensive of any community in this country next to the Kikuyu. The Abagusii have created communities in many parts of the country, including the North, Central and South Rift, Nairobi and Mombasa regions. Here, they have formed powerful bases and alliances, which have produced parliamentary leaders outside their traditional home. Simba Arati of Dagoretti North in Nairobi, is an example, and there are also three or four elected MCAs, including the controversial Samwel Nyangwara of Viwandani. DIASPORA VOTEThose in the regions of their dispersal take the Kisii voting strength close to the million mark. This is of course not to mention those in the international diaspora, particularly in America. The Kisii form the single largest Kenyan community in America, and are also scattered quite a bit around the world. Renewed interest in home politics among Kenyans living abroad means the IEBC will be under pressure to give them an opportunity to vote in August. The truth is, much of that will be Kisii votes. It is estimated that two out of every five Kenyans living abroad, is a Kisii. They can potentially raise up to 200,000 votes. Why then are they so unshakably in Cord/Nasa? Here are some of the reasons.REGIONALISM IN KISII POLITICSRegionalism is an important factor in Kisii politics, which is hurting Jubilee. By regionalism, I mean that the Abagusii have felt politically closer to the Luo than to other communities, especially the Kalenjins. The Luo and the Kisii lived together many years under the former Nyanza province, while the Kalenjin occupied the Rift Valley. The administrative separation between the Kisii and Kalenjin communities also had political implications from the period since before Independence. The same can still be seen to this day. Despite being culturally closer to the Kalenjin, even sharing common clans, they have not voted on the same side for a while now. The last time they voted together was in 2007, when they both supported ODM. The strange thing is that the 2008 post-election violence between the Kisii and the Kalenjin arose at the time the voted on the same side. When supporting rival parties, they are best of brothers! A number of factors explain the close Luo-Kisii relationship, including religion, with the Seventh-day Adventist Church being big in both communities. In order to cement the excellent Luo-Kisii relationship, Raila quoted a Luo proverb, &lsquo;When you want to kill a leopard, you must go with your brother.&rsquo; And brothers they are.ROLE OF CLANClannism is big in Kisii politics. The clan and sub-clan a leader comes from, often takes the better part of the electoral decision process. So big is clan that all Kisii constituencies are basically named after clans and which is also to say that the MPs are also the clan-endorsed leaders. Clan in Kisii is one of the legacies of the cultural interaction with neighbouring communities particularly the Kalenjin. Nearly a tenth of Kipsigis and a few Nandi clans have Kisii counterparts. In fact, at a recent clan meeting of the Nandi clan Satoo and its Kipsigis affiliate Komosi (both of whom claim the Deputy President Ruto as one of their own), the Kisii counterparts of the two clans sent a goodwill message and had sent a representative delegation in the previous year&rsquo;s meeting. Fortunately for Ruto, clans play little or no significant role in Kalenjin politics. But not Kisii. Ruto could easily have used the clan affiliates of his to rally support for Jubilee, but he hasn&rsquo;t. The brotherhood of clan among the Kisii only extended to communal bonds but soon took a political turn with the electorate insisting on placing on the ballot one of their own and rallying around him. Shifting demographic patterns and massive migration among the Kisii have not worked to change that. By the time you see a Kisii aspirant setting his mind on a seat, he normally has his math in place and clan takes much of that, followed very closely with the religious affiliation then the money. Otherwise, they should not bother.CLAN DYNAMICS IN KISIIJubilee has seemingly failed to understand the clan factor in Kisii politics. They have only raised people to work with them without first enquiring how they stand in the clan scheme of things. Kisii county has Governor James Ongwae, who is from the largest Kitutu (Bagetutu) clan, while his deputy Joash Maangi is from the Bomachoge clan. Senator Obure is from the Bobasi clan while Woman rep Mary Otara is Bonchari. You can see there was clan balance in place with this winning arrangement in 2013. The Bagetutu are numerically superior to the others and so, If Obure or Maangi is to have a chance, they should pray for another candidate from Bagetutu to split the vote. That is not likely to happen because in the first place, Ongwae is a clan-endorsed candidate or has positioned himself as such. Alternatively, Obure and Maangi may go for a running mate from the Bagetutu but that may not have the desired effect seeing that they will be going against their (incumbent) candidate. Another governor aspirant Manson Nyamweya, who is running in the KNC, is from the Banyaribari clan and will bank on inroads created by his running mate, a former school principal. In all these arrangements, whatever party is only of secondary importance at this stage. Jubilee&rsquo;s best chance is if the main Nasa protagonists fight out in the ballot as either ODM or Wiper or KNC. They will split the vote and Jubilee sings all the way to the bank.CLAN DYNAMICS IN NYAMIRAIn Nyamira, incumbent John Nyagarama who is a Mugirango, will be fighting it out with Justice (rtd) David Onyancha who is Omogetutu. Just like in Kisii, the Bagetutu are numerous in Nyamira and are likely to turn tables against Nyagarama, unless of course he brings other considerations on the table such as an acceptable running mate or creates a team that has all the clans taken care of. West Mugirango MP James Gesami, who is also ODM county chairman, is also challenging Nyagarama. He has extensive connections in the county and is close to senior ODM bigwigs. Nyagarama&rsquo;s respite is the age difference with Onyancha, who is now in his early 70s but that again, as stated, is only a secondary consideration. For the time being, Gesami is his biggest headache because he is a party insider and could just engineer a win for himself. Onyancha will be gunning for the seat on the Wiper ticket. This leaves the ODM nomination open for Nyagarama and Gesami and Dr Apoko Komenda. If both, who are Bagirango, don&rsquo;t agree, they will split the vote and Onyancha gets the seat, particularly from the fallout of either camps. If however two ODM/Wiper/KNC candidates face a single Jubilee aspirant from the right clan, then the situation changes. Jubilee is trying it out with former aspirant and medic Dr. Ereneo Nyabika, businessman Charles Mochama, former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati and Nairobi advocate Dennis Abincha. Nyambati is Mogetutu. POLITICS OF DEVELOPMENTJubilee has also been faulted when it comes to their development record in Kisii. The previous government under President Mwai Kibaki tried to bring some goodies to the Kisii, including a number of road projects that were constituted under the Grand Coalition government. When Jubilee took over, the road projects are yet to be completed. Some of these roads include Marani-Kegogi and Manga-Mbanda-Marani-Rioma-Metembe. The Sengera-Kenyenya-Mogonga-Etago road still remains a sticky point as is the Suneka airstrip, which has only been partially funded and is yet to be completed. There is also the proposed Nyanturago stadium among other promised goodies. DP Ruto has been pressuring contractors on the ground to complete these projects but it remains to be seen if that will turn the tide.BUSINESS RIVALSJubilee is banking on the endorsement by the grand old man of Kisii politics Simeon Nyachae but this may be part of the problem for Jubilee. The Kisii have tried for many years to break the political (and economic) dominance of the Nyachae family. Nyachae, has had close business relations with the Kikuyus, whom the Kisii have identified as their most powerful business rivals (and vice versa). Take matatu routes in Nairobi for instance and count how many are controlled by the Kisii or properties in various parts of the city. For years, the Kisii and the Kikuyu have been bitter business rivals, particularly in transport and real estate and such rivalry often finds its way to politics &mdash; much in the same way the Kalenjins were rivals with the Kikuyu over land in the Rift. At the end of the day, politics is about resources and how best you can compete for it.JUBILEE APPOINTMENTSBack home, one of the sticking issues that the Kisii have with Jubilee is jobs. They say that Jubilee has not given them enough senior appointments in government. And even where Jubilee made such appointments, it was benefiting a single family &mdash; the scions of Musa Nyandusi (re. Simeon Nyachae) and their affiliates by marriage. Jubilee has countered this by stating that if it were not for them, someone else would have been Chief Justice. Indeed, the appointment of David Maraga as Chief Justice and head of the Judiciary &mdash; one of the three arms of government, was well received among the Kisii. This, however, has failed to transform into Jubilee support. Even the shining Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i, who has greatly raised the leadership profile of the Kisii people among Kenyans, has failed to attract the Kisii to Jubilee. The naysayers are now arguing that Jubilee has not appointed one single Principal Secretary from Kisii. The truth is Jubilee actually did. Social Security and Services PS Susan Mochache is one. The naysayers, however, downplay her appointment saying she is married elsewhere. Such is politics!THE NYACHAE FACTORNyachae, a Munyaribari, has anointed his son, Charles, as his political successor and it is him that Jubilee has been hedging its bets on. Reports have it that the Nyachae camp keen to control the Jubilee Party is one reason why Ongeri (who is also Munyaribari) could not find space in the party and had to walk. Ongeri has traditionally been aligned with Jubilee and had vied for the Senate under TNA. Like Nyachae Sr, he has had close working relations with the Kikuyu and they both have family there. Ongeri opted for ODM because his rival to the seat, the incumbent Senator Obure, has made his intention clear that he is not defending his seat, but will, run for governor on the Jubilee ticket. Being in ODM now will be an unfamiliar territory for him but that has never mattered in politics.FINDING NEW KEYSOthers driving the Jubilee agenda in Kisii include Deputy Governor Maangi, who may not be as popular as Jubilee would like to believe. He has, however, forged an excellent working relationship with DP Ruto. Obure led a series &lsquo;unity rallies&rsquo; largely aimed at working on new alliances to capture the Kisii vote for Jubilee. However, Obure&rsquo;s candidacy is compromised by allegations that he is in Jubilee by coercion. Faced with mounting pressure from the Sh.928-million abuse of office case, in which Nasa principal Musalia Mudavadi was called to testify against him, he had few options on the table. He seems to have been forced to work with Jubilee on this one and if he didn&rsquo;t, certainly he would not be sharing the same stage with the state&rsquo;s principal witness against him. Jubilee must, however, not imagine that Kisii is a lost course for them, in politics, there is nothing which is everything. For the time being, Raila has the keys. They simply need to find new keys.