The wind of change in family law is here. Provisions for alimony are found in Section 25 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, which provides that, in any suit under this Act, the wife may apply to the court for alimony pending the suit, and the court may make such order as it may deem just, provided that alimony pending the suit shall in no case exceed one-fifth of the husband's average net income for the three years next preceding the date of the order.The court can also give alimony as part of its final orders, after the hearing of the petition. Section 25(2) provides that the court may, if it thinks fit, on any decree for divorce or nullity of marriage, order that the husband shall, to the satisfaction of the court, secure to the wife such gross sum of money or annual sum of money for any term, not exceeding her life, as, having regard to her fortune, if any, to the ability of her husband and to the conduct of the parties, the court may deem to be reasonable.This provision has caused a lot of controversy among husbands. This is oblivious to the fact that in some of our family setups, it is the woman that provides for the family. This provision does not envisage a scenario where the wife earns more than the husband.In the circumstances, Section 25 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, which applies to the wife, is now to be read as &ldquo;spouse&rdquo;, to bring it in conformity with Articles 27 and 45 of the Constitution and section 25 of the Act and shall be read with all the necessary alteration to make it gender-neutral.This judgment has ensured that the law is applied equally among all the parties to a marriage. In granting alimony, the court considers several factors. They include:&bull; Need. For a court to award alimony, the recipient applicant must show a reasonable need. &bull; Financial Capacity. Before the court grants alimony, it must ascertain the financial capacity of the person that is to pay the alimony. &bull; Lifestyle during marriage. The longer the marriage, the more important lifestyle during the marriage becomes. &bull; Employment status of the applicant. The employment status of the applicant is also considered by the court in making alimony orders.