The plan by NASA to field joint candidates to face Jubilee has caused jitters in Western and Nyanza, the two regions where the coalition enjoys massive support. Some leaders have expressed fear that forcing a joint nomination under NASA will cause a fallout that may benefit Jubilee. Some leaders want each party under NASA to be allowed to field candidates independently.Amani National Congress has announced that NASA affiliate parties should field candidates across the country.Speaking to the Star yesterday, ANC secretary general George Otsotsi said each individual party, that includes ODM, Ford Kenya, Wiper and ANC, should be allowed to field its own candidates to compete against each other in the coming elections.&ldquo;As NASA, at no point have we discussed the idea of joint nominations. We are saying in places like Western, where NASA is strong, each party should filed its own candidate because it&rsquo;s obvious Jubilee can&rsquo;t win,&rdquo; he said.Otsosti said media reports that areas like Bungoma, where NASA leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula comes from, will only have Ford Kenya aspirants are untrue and misleading.&ldquo;We have discussed nothing of the sort. The propaganda is being spread by some Ford Kenya aspirants who fear ANC aspirants,&rdquo; he said.However, NASA national coordinating committee member and Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire said they are working on nomination modalities.Bosire declined to divulge details but urged aspirants not to panic. &ldquo;NASA is barely two weeks old. Issues of nominations will be discussed by a technical committee and communication will be made,&rdquo; Bosire said.Kitutu Chache South ANC parliamentary aspirant Jimmy Onkangi said NASA should conduct joint nominations. &ldquo;NASA should subject all it&rsquo;s officiates in Kisii and Nyamira to a joint free and fair nomination so that we have NASA aspirants face off with those from Jubilee,&rdquo; Onkangi said.Reports indicate Kisii and Bungoma are among counties where NASA will conduct joint nominations. Otsosi told ANC aspirants not to panic but instead continue campaigning.Amani National Congress, led by Musalia Mudavadi, has been receiving large numbers of defectors from Jubilee, and Ford Kenya in the past month. Political analysts say by NASA fielding different candidates against Jubilee&rsquo;s single candidate, they might reduce their chances of capturing some seats, even in their strongholds.NASA is yet to pick its presidential candidate, but has already signed a pact that they have deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties. The agreement is a framework of operations and highlights seven key pillars under which the coalition&rsquo;s agenda will be anchored.The agreement did not contain any deal on power sharing or how to nominate a joint presidential candidate.In Kisii and Nyamira counties, which are predominantly ODM, other affiliate parties Ford Kenya, ANC and Wiper have identified candidates for senator, governor, MP, woman representative and MCA posts.In Nyamira, NASA governor aspirants are Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo (ANC), former Kitutu Masaba MP Mwancha Okioma (Ford Kenya) and retired judge David Onyancha (Wiper).