Six Ford Kenya politicians from Western Kenya have promised to support and ensure Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula becomes the NASA presidential flagbearer. The Ford Kenya leader was supported on Sunday by Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Enoch Kibunguchy (Likuyani), James Lusweti (Kabuchai), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Trans Nzoia Senator Henry Ndiema. They accompanied Wetang’ula at Ford Kenya rallies in Mbakalu, Naitiri, Ndalu and Brigadier in Tongaren. The politicians said Wetang’ula is young at age 60, focused and the best candidate to take on President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August election. The MPs said Wetang’ula is supported by most youth across the country and residents of Western will fully support him if he is picked as flagbearer. Wamalwa is on the 12-member committe helping to pick the NASA presidential flagbearer. Others are Ford Kenya secretary general Simiyu and Kakamega Senator Boniface Khalwale. In January, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi was fronted as the Luhyas’n preferred presidential candidate. Party chairman Kelvin Lunani made the announcement after Mudavadi was unveiled on December 31 last year as the community’s spokesperson. ALL WANT THE TICKET NASA’s technical team has retreated to a secret location to draft rules on selecting a concensus candidate. Despite signing a binding alliance agreement — and depositing it with the Registrar of Political Parties — the coalition gave no indication of its joint flagbearer. All four NASA leaders want to fly the flag. It is understood that not naming the candidate is a strategic decision, so Jubilee cannot develop an early strategy against that flagbearer. But Wamalwa said they will ensure Wetang’ula gets the ticket. “We will ensure he is given the presidential ticket to redeem this country from Jubilee’s poor leadership,” he said. Wamalwa said Wetang’ula is the only rod that will discipline Jubilee by sending it home for showing politicians how not to lead a country. Kibunguchy said Jubilee has been rejected in Western and has nothing new to offer the electorate who can’t wait to see fresh leadership. “In Kenya right now, we must look at how things are faring. We are seeing our country headed in the wrong direction that must be changed by removing Jubilee from power,” he said. Wamalwa added, “We want our country to head in the right direction. If we fail, history will judge us harshly as the opposition who had the opportunity to bring change but did not,” he said. The MP said NASA is the only administration that can save Kenyans from Jubilee’s corruption, rising cost of living, insecurity, tribalism, joblessness and debt. Kibunguchy said if all Kenyans vote on August 8, Jubilee will go home. He said Uhuru’s leadership has overlooked the youths, women and the disabled, who are still jobless. He accused Uhuru of nepotism in awarding government jobs. The MP asked Wamalwa, Simiyu and Khalwale to ensure as they sit on the committee that Wetang’ula is accorded the presidential ticket. PREFERRED BY YOUTH Kibunguchy said Wetang’ula was endorsed by Luhya elders when he launched his bid in Muliro Gardens, Kakamega. He said many youths see him as a fighter and a defender of the oppressed. Simiyu asked residents to vote for NASA to spur development in counties and see that devolution fully helps the wananchi. Wetang’ula has assured Kenyans that NASA will not split, whoever is chosen flagbearer. ODM denied NASA named Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka flagbearer, as alleged in a letter circulated on social media. NASA leaders did not name a candidate after signing the accord at the Okoa Kenya secretariat. 