As the poll lineups take shape, senators in Nyanza and Western are scheming on how to unseat incumbent governors and MPs.The desire and opportunity to control billions of shillings in the counties is driving back senators for the influential and powerful positions. Currently, the senators have no funds that they control unlike governors and MPs.Senators have put in place strategies as they brace themselves for tough governor and MPs race with August 8 poll gathers momentum.They are traversing counties and meeting professionals and MCAs in support for their bid. The development has stirred political temperatures with governors and MPs seeking to defend their seats from newcomers. Senators said that they want to transform and initiate changes for the benefit of residents.They argued that current governors have caused mess in counties which need urgent intervention. The senators have on numerous occasions accused governors for running down the counties because of corruption allegations and lack of development. Migori Senator Wilfred Machage has declared interest for Kuria West MP. Machage, who has fallen out with ODM party boss Raila Odinga, said he will not defend his seat. But it remains unclear whether he contests the seat on an ODM ticket, a party that sponsored him to the senate or uses a different party.This is likely to stir political competition with reports that incumbent MP Shadrack Manga could stay out of active politics.Manga, 77, won the seat in 2013 on a KANU ticket, is said to have hinted retirement. If he this turn to be true, then Machage will face JP candidates Marwa Getayma, a former director at the Kenya Pipeline Company, Wilson Marwa and former Migori executive for Trade Thomas Maneno of PICK.Kuria East ODM chairman Rahab Robi and Migori Deputy Governor Mwita Mahanga are also running for the seat.Those eying MPs seats accused incumbent of lack of developments and unfair distribution of CDF money especially for bursary program.Nominated senators Daisy Kanainza (ODM) and Joy Gwendo (JP) are running for Lugari and Kisumu East parliamentary seats. Daisy has been campaigning to remove incumbent MP Ayub Savula, who was elected on UDF party.Gwendo also want to unseat second term MP Shakeel Shabbir on JP ticket in the ODM dominated zone. She said her interest is to help transform the lives of her constituents through initiating relevant development initiatives.Godliver Otieno, a nominated senator representing people with disabilities, has however declared she will contest MCA seat.The ODM senator will vie for the Kholela Ward seat in Kakamega county.Vihiga Women Representative Dorcas Kedogo plans to run for Vihiga MP.Nyamira senator Kennedy Mong&rsquo;are had earlier declared interest for governor seat but opted out and launched his presidential bid on the Federal Party of Kenya.Khalwale wants to remove ODM deputy party leader and Governor Wycliffe Oparanya while Nyong&rsquo;o seeks to unseat Governor Jack Ranguma. Khalwale said he want to rescue the county from poor leadership and corruption. He said Oparanya has failed to initiate development despite the county receiving lots of money from the national government.Nyong&rsquo;o accused Ranguma of poor service delivery and lack of development due to corruption.Orengo will face Governor Cornel Rasanga with Obure who ditch ODM for JP against Governor James Ongwae.They are banking on the Auditor General Edward Ouko&rsquo;s report disclosing billions of shillings which are unaccounted for to campaign against the county bosses. The report showed that billions of shillings have been lost in counties through unsupported expenditures, ghost projects, irregular payments and faulty procurement under governors&rsquo; watch. The governors have defended themselves against the report. They said no money has been lost and were used prudently on the intended project.However political analysts termed senators interest as need for &ldquo;power and control of money&rdquo;. In an interview, Jared Okello, a political analyst said senators move to run for governor are driven by the desire to control billions of shillings in counties.He said most senators have now realised that the governors hold powerful positions and aspiring to be governors. In 2013 poll, most candidates scrambled for the senate- as Upper House, without knowing what governorship entails, Okello said.Senate being disregarded as the House of retirees, many senators has shifted interest to for governor and MP seats.Okello noted that unseating the governors will be an uphill task as they are monied than senators and they also have incumbent votes. &ldquo;In the coming poll, money will play a vital role in the governor race. The incumbent are ready financially and strategically,&rdquo; Okello said.He said governors have some projects they will rely on for their second term bid unlike senators eying to remove them. Ends&hellip;