The Health ministry will form a central Tobacco Control Fund to support anti-smoking activities and subsidise the treatment of Kenyans already sickened by tobacco use. Director of public health Dr Kepha Ombacho said they will move speedily to implement the law after BAT-Kenya last week lost an appeal to stop the 2014 tobacco control regulations. The regulations require tobacco firms to pay to the fund a solatium compensation contribution, which is two per cent of the value of tobacco products manufactured or imported by the manufacturer or importer every financial year. For instance, BAT-Kenya, which raised Sh36.68 billion gross revenue in the financial year ending December 2016, would pay at least Sh733.6 million to the fund. &ldquo;Tobacco control fund should come into force and be cascaded to the counties to mitigate the many wrongs arising from tobacco use,&rdquo; Ombacho said in a statement. BAT had sought to reverse a decision by High Court judge Mumbi Ngugi in March last year, saying the regulations, derived from the Tobacco Control Act, are punitive and unconstitutional. However, three Appellate judges declined to stop the rules. Cigarette companies are also required to print gory images of sick and dying smokers on packets to discourage potential smokers. &ldquo;Our job is well cut out for us, as officials and professional custodians of control, and therefore prevention of tobacco and its inherent dangers to public health, human life and the environment,&rdquo; said Prof Peter Odhiambo, chairman of the Tobacco Control Board. Tobacco is a major risk factor for cancers, strokes and heart disease. Scientists say half of all smokers who keep the habit are eventually killed by tobacco-related diseases. A 2015 survey by the International Tobacco Control Group says at least three million Kenyans aged 15 and above smoke cigarettes. &ldquo;We congratulate the Health ministry for the gallant fight. As we move forward, we ask that they now move with speed to make up for lost time,&rdquo; said Emma Wanyonyi, head of the Nairobi-based International Institute for Legislative Affairs. &ldquo;The ruling also has implications for other African countries, where tobacco companies are interfering in efforts to pass and implement proven tobacco control policies,&rdquo; Matthew Myers, president of the US-based Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said in a statement.