Politics in Lamu county is largely based on ethnicity and less on political party affiliations, unlike in many other counties.The election in August will certainly take this angle. It will pit two major ethnic communities against each other &ndash; the native Bajuni, who occupy Lamu East subcounty with a sparse presence on the mainland in Lamu West, and the Kikuyu, who are mainly found in Mpeketoni.In 2013 for instance, the focus on the governor race was in Mpeketoni, which has about 14,000 voters, mainly from the Kikuyu community. Issa Timamy faced Fahim Twaha.The county had 52,346 registered voters, but the number is expected to rise by the end of the mass voter registration tomorrow.Mpeketoni usually registers a higher voter turnout. In 2013, Timamy and his running mate Eric Mugo, a Kikuyu, won on the UDF ticket against TNA's Twaha, who chose Raphael Munyua, also a Kikuyu, as his running mate.Timamy won with 19,744 votes over Twaha's 17,785. He was the only governor elected on the UDF ticket.For many, however, political affiliations do not necessarily guarantee a smooth race. Analysts say any aspirant who will appeal to the vote-rich Lamu West subcounty will definitely get a head start.With a huge population of residents living in abject poverty, many believe aspirants with deep pockets will carry the day. This calls for intensive civic education to create awareness that political seats should benefit the society, not a few people.Many, for example, have accused Timamy of dividing the people since he took office. They accuse him of neglecting Lamu West and favouring Lamu East, which is inhabited by the Bajuni.But Timamy is confident he will be reelected based on his development record."Those challenging me in this race are only exercising their democratic right. At the end of it all, the best man will stand tall and victorious,&rdquo; he said.Timamy has improved healthcare and infrastructure. He has refurbished health facilities, reducing maternal mortality.Major sections of the island&rsquo;s streets have been paved, and Lamu Old Town, Mpeketoni and Kizingitini streets now have modern street lights.Timamy's administration is, however, embroiled in a tussle with the national government over the new Lamu port, Lapsset projects and the Sh200 billion coal plant.Rivals are likely to capitalise on these issue to discredit Timamy and paint him as a clueless leader out of touch with the people's reality and one who has no idea of the projects' benefits to the people and the county's economy.Those eyeing the governor's seat include Timamy&rsquo;s long-time rival and former Lamu West MP Twaha former KenGen manager Swaleh Imu and former Lamu County Council chairman Abdalla Fadhil.Twaha seeks the Jubilee Party ticket. Newcomers Imu and Fadhil only have but a substantial base, but one that might prove tricky for Timamy to penetrate.Fadhil is "still shopping for a party ticket" that will reflect his agenda for the people of Lamu.He says, however, he is confident of beating Timamy due to his vast experience, the incumbent&rsquo;s "poor development record" and his differences between him and other elected leaders. Lawyer Mwaure Waihiga is among those rumoured to be eyeing the seat although they have not made it public.Timamy has had run-ins with all 10 elected MCAs, Lamu East MP Shariff Athman, Lamu West MP Julius Ndegwa, Senator Abu Chiaba and woman representative Shakila Abdalla over the county's affairs.In his usual calm mien Timamy has denied all allegations thrown his way and insisted that his administration is all-inclusive. He says he has always worked hard to ensure all county leaders play an integral part in Lamu's management.Critics and observers believe, however, that this year&rsquo;s voting pattern will greatly be influenced by external forces from Mombasa and Nairobi who have vested interests in the Lamu and own huge chunks of land.Timamy has had a turbulent political career since he declared war on people irregularly allocated land.His election as governor was nullified on September 26, 2013, by the High Court following a successful petition by Twaha, who citied irregularities.After six months of a bruising legal battle a three-judge bench at the Court of Appeal in Malindi dismissed the High Court ruling.Timamy was arrested and charged in connection with the June 2014 Mpeketoni attacks in which more than 100 people were killed and property worth millions of shillings destroyed by al Shabaab militants. He denied the allegations and accused the government of framing him.Critics believe Timamy was targetted because he was a UDF governor in county dominated by TNA and ODM ward reps.Area MCAs, led by speaker Mohamed Hashim, have often rebelled against him. They rejected his first Cabinet and attempted to impeach him on grounds that the appointments were done without consultation, and that minority communities were not included. The two MPs &ndash; Shariff and Ndegwa &ndash; sided with the MCAs.He has fallen out with Chiaba, Abdalla and Ndegwa over land and what the three say is lack of consultation.The governor attributes the bad blood between him and his political rivals to his close relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta, which he has vowed to safeguard.In the March 4, 2013, general election Cord got the highest number votes in Lamu, with presidential candidate Raila Odinga garnering 22,962 votes or 52 per cent. The Jubilee coalition got 17,677, 40 per cent of the vote. The turnout was 84 per cent.