It is inevitable that the Kenya Integrated Election Management System will fail at the August elections. This will happen due to both happenstance and interference. The IEBC does not, and will probably not, have the capacity to procure, test, train and deploy the technology adequately in the remaining time. A new commission, a new IT department (restructured in February last year), procurement timelines, a packed electoral calendar and deployment logistics simply negate the execution of a well-oiled machine that can run certain aspects of the election on technology effectively. For example, some equipment designed and locked for specific polling stations will be delivered to others, batteries will run out and systems will jam.The systems and devices will be entirely new to everyone in the IEBC, and the voter too. They will be new to the developers too, since it is a customised system. The most critical personnel will be the clerks, who will manage the system at each polling station and will have interacted with the equipment for at most a day if not an hour and many will touch the equipment first hand first thing on the morning of August 8. Add to this the pressure of Election Day queues and the polarised environment under which the election will take place and a trepidation will set in that will make working around alien systems impossible. The 2013 experience, where the system was abandoned before long, will replicate itself. The results transmission system will definitely be interfered with. Appearing before the Senate, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said al Shabaab could potentially hack into the system. Though ridiculed for that statement, he was correct. But so will idle hackers at home and around the world; some teenagers will try from their bedrooms just for the fun of it, groups hostile to Kenya&rsquo;s interests will attempt it and so will people interested in the outcomes of the election. I attended the Senate hearings into the controversial amendments to the law where the IEBC and its cyber security team appeared. They have nothing cyberwise on lots of teenagers in Kenyan bedrooms, not in the least. As a foreign procured system, as it will definitely be, we have no idea what backdoors the developers will leave and to whom they may give the keys.When the opposition was protesting the amendments to the election laws to, among other things, institute a complementary system, they knew all the above to be true. Their intention is what wasn&rsquo;t clear to almost everyone. When Royal Media Services chairman SK Macharia appeared before Senate, the intention became clear. The idea of establishing a parallel tallying system, which ODM in particular has been keen on, was revealed. Macharia, a member of Raila Odinga&rsquo;s Summit in the 2013 elections, would establish a simple unverified results collection system and relay them through his media outlets as fast as they come. As the IEBC system stalls from interference without the alternative of a manual system, Royal Media would go on to announce their results, whatever they may be, making whatever the IEBC would come up with defunct. The scenarios that can unfold are anyone&rsquo;s guess.It is the electoral system, its processes and institutions that is the battleground for the August 8 election. Unless Kenya moves quickly to consolidate and legitimise its electoral systems, institutions and processes, the General Election presents a great threat to the country&rsquo;s democracy, peace and stability. Interference and obstruction of institutions, systems and processes, especially from an opposition that is keen on scuttling the whole process and prevaricates on support for the whole process, have left the country&rsquo;s electoral institutions and timelines in jeopardy with a real possibility that August will arrive and find the country unprepared. The Government on its part is keen to ensure that an election takes place and is doing everything in its power to ensure it does. In the absence of a consensus, Jubilee moved to use its numbers in both Houses of Parliament to pass electoral law amendments crucial for the electoral process to remain legal and constitutional, especially the critical timelines that would have lapsed. The two opposed strategies by the opposition and Jubilee are bound to clash raising tensions and polarizing the country even more. Should the opposition succeed in scuttling the electoral process, a constitutional and political crisis would ensue in a polarised environment that would definitely end up in violence and mass atrocities. Should the government continue to use its numbers and mandate to ensure the electoral process is executed; the cries of unilateral action would continue, with the opposition persisting with its narrative of a rigged election.It is not enough to have the Constitution par excellence that Kenya has. The ultimate litmus test for Kenya&rsquo;s democracy today is the legitimacy of the electoral process. The electoral system must inspire confidence in both its process and its results. Even if you&rsquo;re unhappy with the outcome of an election, you can accept it as legitimate if the electoral system is based on confidence that can only be achieved through the agency of the major political players. The opposition&rsquo;s strategy of denying the electoral system this legitimacy therefore renders the whole process and its institutions one- legged.Legitimacy is difficult to measure, but one possible test, especially for Kenya, is the level of confidence the public would have that the system could produce free and fair results. But the entire political establishment needs to get behind the process. The electoral jostling and bargaining that precede elections have begun in earnest. The high stakes poker game and the major issue that will define this election is the electoral system and institutions that include the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the Supreme Court and the security services. This system is Ground Zero. The battle for the control of the IEBC was apparent in an analysis of the commissioners&rsquo; recruitment process. The protagonist Raila had been trying to influence the choice of the new commissioners in the IEBC overtly. The initial attempt to propose commissioners &ndash; and especially the chairman &mdash; in a zero sum game for the President when five people, Margaret Shava (Kiambu), lawyer John Kangu (Kakamega), Roseline Odede (Kisumu), David Mereka (Murang'a) and David Malakwen (Nandi), were shortlisted for the position of chairman of the commission showed just how much infiltration had taken place in a selection panel ironically composed of mostly independent-minded clergymen. It was clear that John Kangu, a Raila adviser, had been preferred for the position and set up for it through machinations. The process was revoked after the mischief became apparent.Raila is also shaping the script for this coming election to that of Ghana and the result of Nana Akufo-Addo&rsquo;s victory. His much-publicised visit to Ghana for the inauguration of President Akufo-Addo is a tactic in drawing the parallel between what happened in Ghana and what his design for Kenya is. It is edifying for Raila that Akufo-Addo is an age-mate at 72 years old.Ghana has been held up as the benchmark for Kenya. At the Senate hearings on the electoral laws, Ghana&rsquo;s electoral experience was Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar&rsquo;s golden calf. He referenced it a million times. First, it heralded the first time in Ghana&rsquo;s history that an incumbent President was freely and fairly voted out. Second, perhaps an idiosyncrasy, it was the first time they have voted for the oldest head of state. Akufo-Addo at 72 will be older than two of their living past heads of state &mdash; Jerry Rawlings and John Mahama.Charlotte Osei, chairperson of the Electoral Commission of Ghana, was credited with the success of the electoral process. After her appointment, a review committee composed of political parties, civil society and the ECG itself did a SWOT analysis of the 2012 election. Interestingly, one of the major identifiable weaknesses of the 2012 election was the failure of the BVR kits. Thereafter, the review committee came up with 29 reforms, of which 27 were adopted and implemented. Again, interestingly, of the two recommendations not adopted one pertained to the inclusion of manual verification as part of the electoral process. There in Ghana&rsquo;s story and, more specifically in relation to Akufo-Addo&rsquo;s victory, Raila discerns his silver lining. The electoral system as currently constituted has problems, top of which is the legitimacy it requires to run an election that will not be declared tainted by the loser. The IEBC has an equipment and materials procurement paralysis in the courts occasioned by obstructionists playing to the oppositions&rsquo; scuttling of the system strategy. It has tight timelines and very little time to execute it. It faces a public skeptical of both its capacity and capability to handle the election. In his March 9, 2013 address to the nation after Uhuru Kenyatta had been declared validly elected, Raila made his first claim that the election had been tainted and that there were no way the results were legitimate. This grievance, he said, would however have only one point of redress, the Supreme Court in which he and Kenyans had faith that it would uphold the rule of law. That was the 2013 Supreme Court led by Chief Justice Willy Mutunga, an erstwhile Raila ally who has constantly provided both thinking and material support through his donor connections. The Supreme Court this time around is freshly reconstituted under Chief Justice David Maraga and has not made any judgments so far to provide grounds for an analysis of its jurisprudence and political affiliations. It also does not have the &ldquo;high ratings&rdquo; and &ldquo;faith&rdquo; one would wish it had as it will have to decide on any election petitions that arise. Few people have the confidence that Raila, were he to lose and dispute the result, will resort to the Supreme Court again. In his own words back then, &ldquo;any violence would destroy this nation forever&rdquo;, a claim that&rsquo;s not farfetched should he choose to ignore the Supreme Court this time round. Raila would later call the Supreme Court &ldquo;korti bandia&rdquo; (rogue court) for its decision. It is most unlikely he&rsquo;ll want to subject himself to the court again. The security services have so far been out of the political loop but it won&rsquo;t be long before they are ensnared by the opposition in a bid to have them fall into the partisanship trap. The suspended but still on the cards mass action on the electoral process is one of these traps. Recently purchased equipment for the police has been cast in the light of a police force being militarized to crack down on the opposition. Kenya should forewarn itself of coming danger and through constant vigilance and action, work to prevent such catastrophic scenarios from happening &ndash; never.