University student leaders have given the government up to next Wednesday to deal with the lecturers&rsquo; strike or face student unrest.Led by Sonu chairman Babu Owino, they said the government has misplaced priorities as President Uhuru Kenyatta is focusing on mobilising people to vote.Owino said he should end the stalemate that has paralysed learning in public universities for three weeks now.&ldquo;There is a crisis yest the President is just moving around mobilising voters. The doctors&rsquo; strike... he did nothing, nurses strike...nothing and now lecturers&rsquo; strike. He is just quiet,&rdquo; he said.Kenyans on Twitter rebuked Uhuru for dancing with a crew at State House while members of the public suffer.Some said he was tired of ruling Kenya and should be allowed to rest in August.Louis Muema said: "People made the wrong choice in 2013. It's time. It's done. We need a change." He added #NASA for the Opposition's super coalition that has pledged to get the Jubilee administration out of power.More on this: [VIDEO] KOT roast Uhuru for 'shameless' dab dance at State House while Kenyans dieAlso see: President turns 'dab of shame' to #UhuruDabChallenge for voter listingOwino said the government should close all public universities if it is unable to end the stalemate.&ldquo;Students are spending money to come to Nairobi, paying fare and rent yet they are not achieving what they came for. They should be sent home and refunded,&rdquo; he said.Read: University Students threaten to protest over lecturers, doctors strikeAlso read: Broken system to blame for ongoing doctors, lecturers&rsquo; strike, says MurgorThe student leader appealed for Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i intervention.&ldquo;Matiang&rsquo;i said he is a performer. He should perform now in negotiations between lecturers and the government, not just in secondary schools affairs,&rdquo; said Owino.Read: Matiang'i asks lecturers to halt strike until March for negotiationsA meeting on Friday between three university unions and the Inter Public Universities Council Consultative Forum (IPUCCF) failed for the second day running.It did not agree on whether lecturers would accept the Sh10 billion that was offered for them to call off the strike.The meeting also sought to find out if the amount would be enough to cover lecturers' union contributions.A Friday afternoon press conference was called off at the last minute, an indication that no deal had been reached.The government offered the amount on Wednesday for basic salaries and house allowances.This was for the Universities&rsquo; Academic Staff Union (Uasu), Kenya University Staff Association (Kusa) and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers (KUDHEHIA).The dons are pushing for the full implementation of the 2013-2017 CBA. They have expressed concern that the Sh10 billion will not be enough for their needs once shared.