A section of Mandera leaders have dared those affiliated to Senator Billow Kerrow to make good their threat of ditching Jubilee for NASA.The team backing Governor Ali Roba, while addressing a press conference on Tuesday, dismissed the lineup arrived at by Garre elders.The elders, together with some of the elected leaders from the county, on Monday, asked Jubilee Party leadership to respect their decision.The group said the proposed list of choice candidates to vie for various seats in the August polls was reached through negotiated democracy.The elders threatened to defect to other parties if President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is vouching for a competitive process, rejects their proposal.MPs Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera West), Adan Mohamed (Mandera North), and Mohamed Abdi Haji (Banisa) said the proposal is not sustainable."The elders have turned out to be dictators. Negotiated democracy is not sustainable. Let Mandera people elect their leaders," Mahamud said."There is no democracy that is unique to Mandera. Council of elders are all over in the country. What is so special about Mandera?" the MP asked.Governor aspirant Noor Hassan Noor, his running mate Abbas Maalim and Senate hopeful Hassan Osman are on the team pushing for negotiated democracy.Kerrow's team asked Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto to respect their decision on the choice of the next Mandera governor."Ruto should respect our elders. They are the ones who ensured that the people of Mandera voted for Jubilee government in 2013," Kerrow said."They can as well make the people of Mandera change to NASA," the Senator said on Monday. But Roba said the council of elders and the leaders have created confusion through the ultimatums to JP."We applaud the position of Uhuru and Ruto that there will be free and fair party primaries," the governor said.Read: Roba to unveil his line-up after defying Garre elders&rsquo; choicesAlso read: Roba, Kerrow hold duelling political rallies"We challenge our would-be opponents to go for party primaries with us. We will support them if they beat us. We will not move to any other party," he said."If you know you have 90 per cent of the support as you claim on camera in Nairobi, you should not even worry about party primaries," Roba added.He said leaders threatening to ditch Jubilee for other parties have merely lost touch with the electorate, challenging the lot to prove them wrong during the primaries.