Cord leader Raila Odinga has demanded the cleaning up of the IEBC secretariat over integrity and credibility of voter registration database.He said there are doubts about the secretariat, particularly those in charge of ICT, whose credibility is questionable.Raila questioned the double registration of voters report released by the commission. &ldquo;The secretariat said more than 128,926 people were double registered and now they are talking of 78,000. So you ask yourself which of the two is genuine,&rdquo; he said.Raila urged the IEBC to conduct urgent house cleaning of officers whose integrity is questionable and tarnishing the image of the commission.He said Kenyans cannot afford another rigged election. &ldquo;It would not be accepted at all.&rdquo; Raila added, &ldquo;This we have told Jubilee so many times. We will not go to an election when the playing field is not leveled.&rdquo;He said the country cannot have a register where an ID is used to register five or seven people. The opposition chief said a thorough audit must be carried out to expunge the fictitiously registered voters to head to the election with a credible register.Raila, accompanied by former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende, spoke at Avenue Hospital, where he visited former Maragoli MP JD Otiende.He said Otiende was in ICU. Raila said doctors have confirmed his health has improved and he has been moved to the general observation ward.On the anomalies witnessed in the ongoing voter listing, Raila said such should not discourage Kenyans from registering. &ldquo;I want to reinforce my appeal to our supporters nationwide to turn out in large numbers and get listed,&rdquo; he said.Raila said it is only through the ballot that Kenyans can realise the change and transformation they desire.He said low voter turnout is countrywide noting that there is a general feeling that high voter registration in Kiambu county might not be genuine.Raila told the new IEBC commissioners to be aware of the &ldquo;dirty&rdquo; register that they inherited from their predecessors.He said the commission must embark on serious scrutiny of the register before Kenyans go to the polls.The ODM leader said the auditing of voter register must be conducted by a highly competent and experienced company.&ldquo;That is why we moved to court to stop the tender award by the previous commissioners,&rdquo; Raila added.Regarding transforming the government if elected President, Raila said he will initiate changes within 90 days.He said that Kenyans will be able to see transformation like seen in Tanzania when President John Magufuli was elected. &ldquo;Please don&rsquo;t misquote me. While in Narok I did not say I will change the economy in 90 days. You cannot do that in three months,&rdquo; he said.