As an avowed human rights advocate and a laywer who has worked with many refugees and immigrants, the tenor of this article may be unexpected. I am not going to rant and rave about the terrible things Donald Trump is doing, I am not going to declare that his travel ban is a Muslim ban, or that it is clearly unconstitutional. What I am going to do is remind everyone that entry into a country of which you are not a citizen is essentially a discretionary decision made by the administrative agencies in the country you&rsquo;re seeking to enter. As the daughter of an immigrant, and the spouse of a non-US citizen, I am acutely aware of this fact. I know that there is always a possibility that my husband and I could effectively be separated based on the changing policy directives of our respective governments. There has been much media drama over the Trump Travel Ban in the past few days, and several US courts have already issued temporary injunctions, preventing its effect. But as I read through the actual text of the Order, I think it is important to stick to the facts. The text actually never mentions Muslims or Islam and on its face the Order is most likely clearly Constitutional. The US Federal Courts are going to have plenty of work over the next several months clarifying exactly how this Order can be implemented without undermining fundamental due process and non-discrimination provisions in US law, especially for those who have already been granted entry permits into the US. But make no mistake, it is an Order that is going to be implemented in large part. And in reading the Order in full, it becomes clear that this temporary travel ban for seven countries is just the beginning. The Order is calling for sweeping reviews of immigration, refugee and visa policy for entry into the United States from all countries. Trump&rsquo;s new cabinet appointees are being given clear marching orders to undertake extensive reviews of biometric entry processes, screening procedures, and visa reciprocity. Kenyans should get prepared &ndash; just that Kenya wasn&rsquo;t on the initial list of seven countries doesn&rsquo;t mean that changes aren&rsquo;t coming. Before the US election in November, I encouraged many of my Kenyan friends and colleagues to get their US visas in order. Many Kenyans were issued five-year, multi-entry visas to travel to the US. Given the executive order&rsquo;s call for review of visa reciprocity, I now encourage Kenyans not to count on the fact that those visas will remain in effect. Americans are not given five-year, multi-entry visas into Kenya unless they have a special permit &ndash; Americans get three months, single entry. This is a reciprocity problem that could lead to immediate changes in US visa policy in relation to Kenya under the Trump administration&rsquo;s policies. The Trump Order revokes the visa interview waiver program, which means that consular offices around the world are now going to be even more overworked than they were previously. As new immigration review procedures likely come into effect over the next several months, the wait time to get a visa appointment and to obtain the actual visa document is going to become even longer. Procedures to expedite visa processing are likely to be eliminated altogether &ndash; no more last minute calls to the Embassy to get a visa for that conference or business meeting &ndash; you just might not be going. As a human rights lawyer and an American who loves my country, I have serious concerns and frustrations about the signal that the Trump administration is sending with its current travel ban. As someone who calls Kenya my second home, I&rsquo;m urging Kenyans to brace themselves for more to come.