JUST what happened to the parliamentary investigations into the El Adde attack on a KDF camp in Somalia last year that left many soldiers dead? Corridors has it that though the Defence and Foreign Relations committee of the National Assembly is yet to table its report more than a year since it launched the probe, it is plotting to start investigations into the recent attacks in Kulbiyow that also left many soldiers dead. Observers opine that if the committee, chaired by Tetu MP Ndung&rsquo;u Gethenji (pictured), had been guided by wisdom, releasing its El Adde probe in time, perhaps it would have prevented the recent attacks. However, as matters stand, one could be forgiven for thinking that the committee carries out investigations only for members to pocket fat sitting allowances. Nothing else! ***** POLITICAL observers and NGOs are wondering just who is behind the recent erection of billboards and all manner of materials that defame Auditor General Edward Ouko. However, Corridors has it that the billboards are part of a wider scheme meant to paint the auditor as too corrupt and unfit to hold public office and therefore engineer his removal. Already, a petition has been filed in the National Assembly even as it emerges that the ongoing campaign is against much-awaited disclosures on Eurobond and a number of state agencies. Though the EACC has recommended that he be prosecuted for irregularly acquiring audit volt software for Sh100 million, those who are at the centre of the missing billions in public funds are living it large. Indeed, as they say, corruption fights back - and does so viciously.***** WHAT became of allegations of misuse of public funds against a VC of a local public university? Despite the matter being publicised and the VC threatened with the sack, it is said to have died an unnatural death after the palms of a key political figure from the area where the institution is located were greased with cash. Corridors has it that the politician was given a multi-million-shilling tender, paid for in cash, to put up a wall around the institution&rsquo;s land, which runs into the hundreds of acres. And the wall is said to have been put up in record time. ***** A former manager in one of the state agencies under the ministry of Tourism is a man on the spot, after it was discovered that he traded some of the organisation&rsquo;s tenders for sex. The woman who the man is said to have been giving tenders without following the law is one of the many wives of a political figure from Western. Though the woman and the politician no longer see eye-to-eye, Corridors has learnt she has threatened to release a damning sex dossier implicating the former manager, who is now in private business.