The Maasai community that grazes livestock in Juja, Kiambu, has requested the county government to issue them title deeds for the fields.They said despite many years of grazing on the vast land, which is largely undeveloped, they have no ownership documents. The herders spoke on Tuesday during a meeting with Governor William Kabogo.The county chief promised to consider their concerns.&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve heard you are finding ways to get plots here. If we work together, you will get the plots,&rdquo; Kabogo said.He said owners of the large parcels failed to set aside portions for public utilities, such as roads, when they subdivided the land. &ldquo;I will address this matter. I will retain the seat because of your votes and God&rsquo;s help. When I win the election, show me where the land that you want to settle on is. For now, I cannot look into the issue because people will start creating a lot of political propaganda. Let&rsquo;s wait until I keep hold of the seat,&rdquo; Kabogo said.He expressed optimism that he will be reelected and wooed the Maasais to back him. Kabogo sought to discredit his archrival Ferdinand Waititu (Kabete MP), whom he accused of being selfish as he &ldquo;only cares to fill his stomach&rdquo;.&ldquo;You know the noisemaker from Nairobi who once said the Maasai community should be flushed out of the city. He is not my match as he is a selfish leader who only intends to enrich himself,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;They&rsquo;ve formed an alliance to oust me, but they will fail miserably.&rdquo;Kabogo said Kiambu does not promote tribalism as his administration has employed people from non-native communities, including the Somali, Luo and Borana.He promised to donate 20 bags of maize, 10 bags of beans and cooking fat to the Maasais, adding that they suffer the worst of the drought. President Uhuru Kenyatta has declared drought a national disaster. &ldquo;We will also find a way to bring hay to the community to mitigate the suffering of their animals. We&rsquo;re aware they depend on their livestock for a living,&rdquo; Kabogo said.David Lenayapa, a Maasai, told the Star on the phone that their major problem is lack of pasture for their animals and lack of a permanent place to settle. He said, &ldquo;Kiambu is a fertile place full of feed for our livestock. We&rsquo;d wish to get a parcel of land here where we can settle, a place to call home.&rdquo;