The race for Kirinyaga governor has attracted big names among them incumbent Joseph Ndathi, former Cabinet minister and Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, disgraced former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru and Kirinyaga Central MP Joseph Gitari.Governor Ndathi, like many other governors, has fallen out with his deputy Julius Njiiri, and they will not be seeking a joint ticket. Ndathi will defend his seat on the Jubilee Party.The fallout is likely to be a disadvantage to Ndathi since Njiiri was influential in Ndathi&rsquo;s election as governor in 2013. This is because the Deputy Governor comes from the vote-rich Mwea constituency, which recorded over 130,000 of the total 348,627 registered voters in the county.Ndathi, who is projecting himself as a development-conscious leader, has been opening development projects in the recent past, a move seen as a campaign strategy. Ndathi will face Waiguru and Gitari in the Jubilee nominations in April.GICHUGU, MWEA POLITICSWaiguru and Ndathi come from Gichugu, which could play to their disadvantage because they will divide the constituency vote, while Gitari will have his Kirinyaga Central constituency vote bloc intact.Waiguru has picked former Mwea MP aspirant Peter Ndambiri to tap into the vote rich constituency and bring in a youthful face to her campaigns. But sources told the Star Waiguru settled on Ndambiri because he is a politician, having run in 2013 on the TNA ticket but lost to Peter Gitau.Ndambiri understands the county politics, and in particular Mwea, and had indicated he would run for the Mwea seat before he accepted to be Waiguru&rsquo;s running mate.SH1.8 BILLION NYS SCANDALOpponents are already using the Sh1.8 billion NYS Scandal, which happened when Waiguru was Devolution CS, against her, with Ndathi and Gitari leading the onslaught.Waiguru resigned in November 2014 at the height of the scam, amid pressure from the opposition. She gave in but said she quit for health reasons.Businesswoman and the main NYS suspect Josephine Kabura and former Devolution PS Peter Mangiti linked Waiguru to the theft. Waiguru, however, denied the allegations and instead linked Jubilee bigwigs to the theft. She has now told her opponents to sell their agenda to the voters instead of mudslinging her. KARUA ENTRY INTO THE RACEKarua, a 2013 presidential candidate, in September last year announced she will stand for governor and support President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection. She is the senior-most politician in Kirinyaga, having been elected Gichugu MP in 1992. She went on to serve as MP for two decades and as Cabinet minister in various dockets since 2002, including Water and Natural resources and Justice and constitutional Affairs.Her name is an easy sell in the county given her long political career, and because locals consider her as a reformist, who brought development to Gichugu. Those interviewed said she did not tolerate corruption in CDF management when she was MP.Her decision to support President Uhuru in August will boost her chances because of the nature of the regional politics. Karua comes from Kimunye, Gichugu, alongside Ndathi and Waiguru and all the top contenders for the seat are from Gichugu.GITARI POPULARITYGitari is a close ally of President Uhuru and has defended him on several occasions. The Kirinyaga Central MP enjoys huge support in his backyard.In the 2010 by-election &mdash; after the court nullified the election of Ngata Kariuki &mdash; Gitari won the poll against Daniel Karaba with a massive 90 per cent of the vote. Karaba was later elected Kirinyaga Senator in 2013 and will defend his seat.Gitari told the Star on the phone that Ndathi is a non-starter for failing to deliver. He said other counties such as Embu and Garissa have built county roads while Kirinyaga has built none. Gitari also criticised the health sector in the county, saying it is in the ICU.In response to the the Star, Ndathi said roads are a national government function. Last year, patients at the Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital were forced to carry water and bedding to the facility. The mortuary has not been functioning for the past three years.Other candidates in the crowded race are businessman Muriithi Kagai, who was runner-up in the last general election. He comes from Ndia constituency .Eliud Wanjau, who resigned from KRA last year, has also announced his interest in the top seat on a JP ticket. Wanjau comes from Mwea constituency. Posters of little-known Karimi Muriithi have also been doing rounds in the county, indicating he will also compete for the JP ticket.Whoever wins the JP ticket among Gitari, Ndathi, Waiguru and Kagai will have to battle it out with Karua, who declared she will retain and run on her Narc-Kenya party. She has been popularising the party in the county.Ndathi is banking on his development record for a second term. When First Lady Margaret Kenyatta handed over the 43rd Beyond Zero mobile clinic to the county last year, she praised the Ndathi government for improving healthcare.The Star has established Gitari has the support of Kenyan Ambassador to the US Njeru Githae, who ran in 2013 but lost to Ndathi in the primaries.SENATE RACEThe Senate race has also attracted a number of aspirants who want to unseat Karaba.They include Charles Kibiru, former Mwea MP Kithika Kibugi, Peter Mwaniki and former Kirinyaga county Knut secretary general Harrison Gichira. All are seeking the JP ticket. Although JP is the most popular party in the county, residents have indicated they will not vote in a six-piece pattern, but will vote for candidates who can perform.Meru Governor Peter Munya&rsquo;s PNU has set up shop in the county and has so far registered 3,000 members in the last two months.PNU chairman in the county Bishop Cyrus Githaka told the Star they decided to establish in the county because some candidates expressed fears JP nominations will not be fair.The woman representative seat has so far attracted four hopefuls, all seeking the JP ticket. They are incumbent Winnie Karimi, speaker Anne Githinji, businesswoman Wangui Ngirici and former teacher Rose Muguchu.