In December 2016, a Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill &ndash; No. 48 of 2016 &ndash; was brought to the National Assembly. As has become tradition in Kenya, such Bills are brought in December, when everyone is busy with festivities and celebrations for the New Year. However, there are those who continually watch the space, and in doing so, something against the Independent Policing Oversight Authority was being cooked. The Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill, was attempting to stifle all IPOA functions to a zilch. In a simple way, by creating a proviso on the already existing Section 7 of the IPOA legislation. That is, if IPOA would want to continue operating, it must fulfill procedures of privileged information. Fate of the Bill?Since the Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill neither defined what &ldquo;privileged information&rdquo; is nor what are the &ldquo;procedures&rdquo; to be followed, is it then palpable that the police would determine what these &ldquo;procedures&rdquo; were and what &ldquo;privileged information&rdquo; would be? The Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill was debated at the National Assembly and went into the First Reading. Members of public, who are the main beneficiaries of IPOA, also discussed the Bill in their own spaces. The media houses, especially the print media, dissected the demerits of the same Bill throughout January and February. The civil society, particularly human rights lobbies, spoke from the rooftops about the ills of intended bill and made their voice heard in the National Assembly. IPOA made comprehensive presentations at the Committee Stage in February. Due to all this pressure, the Bill was withdrawn before it went to the Second Reading by the Leader of the Majority, Aden Duale, on February 08, 2017. The fate of the Bill was sealed: it was dead on arrival. Below is a candid analysis of why the Bill died a premature death.Key Functions The IPOA legislation mandates the Authority to investigate deaths and serious injuries caused by police action. Thus, if police were to decide what is privileged, none of the 420 cases already investigated and concluded, could have been completed. They would simply deny records such as firearms register, deployment register, or even simple cooperation on the matter under investigation. Literally, the cops in Court facing different cases (about 45 cases are already in Court) would be roaming free, and worse, those serving sentences, following their convictions after IPOA&rsquo;s successful investigations, would not have been convicted to begin with. Another key function of IPOA is to investigate police misconduct; arising from police against police or even public against police. Beyond these two, IPOA can investigate on its own motion, especially when a matter is brought to public interest by the media or civil society. In all these three types of occasions, complaints against police misconduct, rose to about 8,200 by February 2017, would not have been investigated. Further, those disciplinary cases short of criminal prosecution should not have been forwarded to the National Police Service Commission. Most police complaints are related to their seniors and therefore, this function would be rendered impossible, which leaves the lower-cadre officers at the mercy of their bosses. These include issues such as unfair administrative action including dismissal, transfers, promotions and trainings. Police leadership has failed the rank- and-file as far as these matters are concerned. The members of the public have numerous complaints against the police, most of which have ended up being thoroughly investigated by IPOA. These include: abuse of office; arbitrary arrest and unlawful detention; corruption and extortion; malicious prosecution and dissatisfaction with court processes; extra-judicial killings; obstruction of justice; and police assault amongst others. If the Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill was left to pass, then the public and police would look for elsewhere to complain; not IPOA. Police would simply refuse to grant &ldquo;privileged information&rdquo; to IPOA to enable police and public to access justice. Overseeing Police IAUThird, IPOA monitors, reviews and audits investigations and actions by Internal Affairs Unit (IAU) of the police to independently verify that the internal police system deals with complaints against officers fairly and effectively. Further, the Authority can take over investigations if not satisfied with IAU&rsquo;s pace of intervention. The role of IPOA is to ensure standards and measures that can make the IAU not only operational but also functional, in terms of the National Police Service Act. The IAU is not independent. They are not functional. But they are at pains to work it out. Already IPOA has a &ldquo;black file&rdquo; on IAU on its underperformance. IAU is not efficient; neither is it functional. In summary, functioning of the internal disciplinary process leaves a lot to be desired. Annually 3 to 5 percent of the cases IPOA receives pertain to IAU complaints. Further, IPOA reports have clearly pointed out failures of the Inspector General to ensure the operational independence of IAU. Second, our monitoring reports over the years, have shown contempt by police leadership for a functional IAU. Is that the actual state of affairs that executive bureaucrats willed in their support for the Bill? Inspecting Police IPOA is mandated to conduct inspections of police premises including detention facilities. In this role, IPOA seeks to ensure that police premises meet basic predefined standards and that treatment of suspects and detainees in accordance with the Constitution. Those standards are clear; they are in both the Constitution and the respective schedules of the National Police Service Act. If the Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill was passed, then IPOA would have closed shop and the rest of the work would have been left with the police. Overtime, inspection reports have been prepared and shared with the relevant government authorities, including the senior command of the police. In the four plus years of IPOA&rsquo;s existence, over 500 inspections plus half of that number being follow-ups have been documented to ensure the police abide by their law in terms of detentions facilities. A clear outcome of these inspections proves that the police cells are dilapidated or in a dreaded condition, especially sanitary facilities are in their worst state. And lastly, all premises of police, including their housing units, require a re-look at policy change &ndash; away from building new houses for police to ensuring police rent and live among the communities. Bureaucrats have refused to listen to these various policy options. No wonder they were thinking of disempowering IPOA.Policing Operations Amongst the other key functions of IPOA, is that the Authority monitors and investigates policing operations that affect the members of public, including monitoring demonstrations and picketing. Among the highlights of 2016, the Authority did monitor police misconduct during the country-wide demonstrations and picketing regarding electoral laws and the body responsible. The report thereof, clearly points to a police that has failed to be professional in their approach when policing public order and gatherings. The number of people who suffered, who were injured or those who died, including police, is a pointer to a bureaucracy that has failed to change its systems. So many investigations are still open. One of the key problems and challenges encountered then till now, is to account for the deployment register. Police have simply refused to comply with the law and let Kenyans know which police were deployed where. Nonetheless, IPOA will be prosecuting the-who-is-who among the top police leadership, since failure to provide such a register, is an offence according to Section 31 of the IPOA Act. If the Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill could have passed, it could have sanctioned the non-compliance and also non-cooperation, which has left many crying for justice. IPOA has prevailed in yet another attempt by executive bureaucrats to interfere with an independent institution, which unfortunately is totally against the backdrop of the Jubilee Alliance government pledges in their Manifesto, and lofty promises of saying one thing and then doing totally another thing. History will judge these bureaucrats very harshly. The writer is a Board Member of the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA). The views contained herein reflect those of the Board and the entire Authority.