We created various initiatives such as Dunda, which was a countrywide youth caravan with various youth leaders to encourage young people to register as voters. The tour helped us educate the youth on their civic rights, as well as giving them a chance to voice their issues to political aspirants.Our efforts paid off as more young people accepted TNA and then the Jubilee Coalition and our Presidential candidate &ndash; Uhuru Kenyatta and his running-mate William Ruto. For the first time, we had a large number of young people involved in political campaigns for the right reasons.We celebrated as young people as we got a youthful president and deputy president and who went ahead to give us a youthful government. We also ensured that there was a larger portion of youthful legislators who got to parliament as we worked to ensure that we kept our promise to the young people of Kenya.As a youthful minister in the Kiambu Government, I have encountered thousands of youth who are still holding on to this promise but express a lot of frustrations. They are everyday seeking opportunities in the form of employment and loans for businesses.Many of them today are apathetic and you will hear them saying that they have no motivation to vote in the upcoming elections. A lot of them are even refusing to register as voters as they see no gains on their life by participating in the election.The youth have also not found the elections interesting and no one has given them an alternative that excites them to come out in large numbers to register to vote. But even then, young people must develop a sense of responsibility in themselves and embrace voting as a way of creating and enhancing change.We have been talking about changing the course of leadership in the country and with the youth being the majority we must capture their full attention. We must encourage the youth take up this as a chance to voice their issues on empowerment in governance, job creation and their political role in the country.It is not enough to complain time and again about bad leadership when we are not taking part in the process that can change this. Voting is a chance for the youth to ensure that we elect leaders that put the interests of the young people first and are willing to do whatever it takes to transform this country.If we, as the youth refuse to take registration cards, then we will doom our future to leaders that do not put our interests first. As a worst case scenario, the youth must take registration cards and then you can have the decision to vote, or abstain by August 8th. Refusing to take the voters card means that you will have no option but live with the leaders that are elected by others. These leaders may not have the interests of the youth at heart to push through policies that are aimed at empowering you.Only we, as the youth of Kenya can chart the destiny of this country by taking voters cards, voting out leaders that are focused on their own selfish interests, and voting in leaders that have a dream of transforming this country.We must therefore register as voters and ensure that we give the country's top leadership, an army of leaders who are interested in pushing the youth agenda. Leaders who are focused on empowerment, job creation, fighting corruption and eradication of alcohol and drug abuse among young people.ENDS&hellip;(The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda)