There are high chances that Kenya could be plunged into post-election violence after the August 8 polls, the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops warned yesterday. Speaking during a breakfast meeting with media practitioners at Hotel Intercontinental, Nairobi, Commission for Ecumenism chairman Alfred Rotich (pictured) said the inciting statements from politicians will lead to violent confrontations among supporters of different political factions.&ldquo;This year, depending on how the election process is conducted, there is a great potential to plunge our country back into violent conflict as witnessed in 2007-08,&rdquo; Rotich said.&ldquo;It is therefore important to put in place efforts so that the past gains in regards to political stabilisation and democratisation are not eroded.&rdquo; Rotich said the Catholic Church has already cautioned its bishops and priests to avoid the temptation of taking political sides or using church services to campaign for their preferred candidates.He said priests have been warned against allowing politicians to use the church podiums to campaign or make donations. Rotich said politicians who are members of parishes should make their donations to the development committee &ldquo;silently&rdquo;. &ldquo;Bishops and priests are advised not to campaign for any candidate or party. We are alert that there may be one or two priests who have engaged in political issues. We will train our priests,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The church should not be used for campaigns. Politicians of whichever rank in society should not be allowed to campaign in church.&rdquo; The bishops have identified six potential causes of violence. They include voter registration, political party primaries, possibility of collapse of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the timelines and legal risks. Other risk factors are technological failures and peace and security challenges. The bishops are on February 25 expected to launch a nationwide campaign to call for peaceful and credible elections. The &ldquo;Lanten Campaigns&rdquo; will run for 40 days and will end on Easter. The bishops urged Kenyans to be responsible citizens by voting for leaders of integrity.