The ongoing doctors&rsquo; strike has angered the majority of Jubilee MPs to the point of profiling KMPDU officials by ethnic cocoon for allegedly painting the government in bad light. Word has it that one Jubilee legislator, during a joint parliamentary committee meeting this week with doctors&rsquo; representatives, led by secretary general Ouma Oluga, demanded an answer why the union lacks a national outlook. The demand angered opposition legislators in the committee that one MP asked his Jubilee counterpart not to pursue the ethnic composition of the union, only the main agenda of unlocking the health sector stalemate. Some Jubilee MPs even maintain the union officials are pushing NASA&rsquo;s political agenda of sabotaging the government ahead of the August 8 poll. *****There are sober updates from government bloggers aimed at making you understand what Jubilee is doing. But they are very few and very far apart. And Corridors is not talking about The 36 Bloggers, but people who work in different arms of the government. Only a few seem to know what is happening and the rest can only copy and paste from them. Some of the independent social media updates from the many bloggers leave one with questions about how and why they were recruited to serve the government in the first place. ***** Word has it that politicians from Kiambu county are also forming a new super alliance - against Governor William Kabogo. Our moles confirm the new coalition is likely to bring together James Nyoro, Ferdinand Waititu and Gakuyo Ngare. The team is bargaining on who will take over the positions of governor, geputy governor and a choice Executive post. ***** A Jubilee legislator dismissed President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s technocrats at a city restaurant who were arguing NASA will disintegrate before the next election. The man insisted that there is no quitting NASA. He argued Raila Odinga will be humble since it is his last time to go for President. He said it is hard for ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to repeat the same mistakes committed in 2002 and 2013, unless he wants to kill his political career. He opined that if Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka leaves NASA, Charity Ngilu will definitely find a place in it. As for Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, he said if the Bungoma Senator leaves NASA, his political career might end too. He argues that NASA might field a candidate in Bungoma.