Betting firms have called for changes to the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Amendment Bill, 2016 terming it &ldquo;fundamentally flawed&rdquo;.The Association of Gaming Operators Kenya has asked the Committee on Labor and Social Welfare to amend the bill "to expunge offensive clauses". Bill meant to regulate the lucrative betting and gaming industry seeks to create a cap for specific operating hours for betting, setting gaming and lotteries activities for between 5:00 pm and 7:00 am AGOK chairman Ronald Karauri said the association was overburdened by a high tax regime and they need protective laws. He said the time limit is impractical.&ldquo;The public thinks we just make money and the lawmakers think we waste people&rsquo;s time. This is not true. Betting is a recreational activity and should be protected,&rdquo; Karauri told the Star on Friday.Karauri faulted the drafter of the bill, Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, for failing to seek the input of all stakeholders before publishing it, saying he flouted the law making procedures. &ldquo;We feel that we should have been consulted in the drafting stage of this bill. This bill lacks fundamentals, it is flawed and does not follow the industry&rsquo;s best practices,&rdquo;said Karauri, who is also the CEO of leading sport betting firm-Sportpesa.The proposed law is currently on its second reading in the National Assembly.&ldquo;Had we been consulted, this bill could have had less debate than we have seen,&rdquo; he said.AGOK has however supported the creation of an independent authority as proposed with expanded membership from industry operators. The lobby dismissed claims that operators are working in cahoots with the Betting and Licensing Board. The board, which is the industry regulator, has been blamed for failing to properly supervise the sector. The Association has warned that the industry would collapse if some of the contentious clauses in the bill are not amended. &ldquo;We want the bill differed to give room for amendments after proper consultations,&rdquo; said Karauri.The push by MPs to regulate the sector took a new twist on Tuesday after the government submitted to the House a parallel draft bill. Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery tabled a separate bill before the Labour committee.Named the Gaming Bill, the proposed law recommends tough fines on industry players who allow underage individuals to participate in gambling. &ldquo; A person who bets with a young person commits an offence and shall upon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or both,&rdquo; reads the bill in part. A similar punishment is prescribed for people who sell lottery tickets to underage people.