Some of the political factors affecting the construction and housing industry in this country consists of legal documentation and permits that have to be acquired during the various stages of a construction project.Construction cannot take place unless the builder secures a building commencement certificate from the affiliated authority. Also, Floor Space Index is basically a ratio that determines how tall buildings can be constructed on a particular plot and it&rsquo;s a permit that has to be issued by local authorities. After the completion of construction works, the owner has to secure an Occupation Certificate without which, the flats in the building cannot be occupied for residential or commercial purposes.Many times these permits take too much time to be processed and this slows down the project. Those in power within the organisation that issues such permits influence the issuing of the documents purposefully so that they can also have a share of the &ldquo;cake&rdquo; and when the odds are not in their favour, they opt for professional malpractices that undermine the very service that they are supposed to offer. Failure to issue out these permits results in losses in huge sums and, at most times, abandonment of the project.The construction industry has faced many challenges in quality assurance. This can be seen from the high number of collapsing buildings, and unauthorised constructions on road reserves.The Ministry of Lands and Housing accuses some counties who lack the capacity to ensure the implementation of quality control in these projects.The ministry also points out that a big number of professionals are proficient to offer upright quality advice and service, but some give mediocre service through poor documentation, poor judgement and unnecessary extension of time for projects.For years, there have been challenges in with unskilled draughtsman aka &ldquo;fundis&rdquo; and sham contractors. This greatly contributes to the cases of collapsed buildings in various parts of the country, especially in Nairobi county, which has seen the collapse of low cost residential flats that results in the loss of life and property.There is an agency constituted under Act No. 41 of 2011 and tasked to &ldquo;Accredit and register contractors and regulate their professional undertakings&rdquo;. This is the National Construction Authority. NCA is also mandated to sanction skilled construction employees and site supervisors. This is aimed to eliminate rogue contractors, train building draughtsman and diminish malpractices in the industry.Contractors or builders lament that classification of contractors by various ministries involved in construction business is biased. This is seen in the awarding of construction projects tenders. They complain about the manner in which the tender offers are under-priced and evaluated. Corruption and unfair allocation of construction projects is the norm. Procurement needs to be revised, as they are the source unnecessary delays of payments.Cost engineers should ensure that all funds that are allocated to the county governments are not misused through corruption and such malpractices. Most of the times that funds are misused, it is done when implementing construction projects in the counties as they tend to have huge amounts of tender sums. They should assess, professionally, the costs of the projects and ensure that all the funds are spent well and that taxpayers get great value for their money, and that infrastructure is of good quality. The writer is a cost engineer Nakuru Senate aspirant