Mombasa Deputy Governor Ms Hazel Katana must be a happy woman today. This week her political star moved a notch higher when President Uhuru Kenyatta welcomed her defection from ODM to Jubilee at State House, Mombasa. Ms. Katana&rsquo;s defection sealed her already troubled political working relationship with Governor Hassan Joho, the fiercest critic of the Jubilee Government in the Coast region.Ms. Katana joins a host of other ODM Coast politicians who since last year joined JP. They include Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aroIn and Taita Taveta, Senator Dan Mwazo, is reportedly shifting Wiper party. Despite the princely reception Ms. Katana had in Mombasa, she has a mountain top to climb to sell Jubilee. Mombasa County is overwhelmingly ODM. In the 2013 elections, Mombasa was the only county in the Coast to elect &ldquo;six-piece-suit.&rdquo; This means that all the six elective positions of President, Governor, Senate, Woman Rep, MP and MCA were won by ODM. If Ms. Katana fails to sell JP, she has it upon herself to blame. Most of the voters in Mombasa County belong to her community, the Mijikenda. They constitute about 45 percent of the population. Yet, during her tenure as deputy governor, Ms. Katana has failed to show case herself as the Mombasa politician of the future. She sidelined the Mijikenda. Whether it was through fear or intimidation by Joho&rsquo;s style of politics, Ms. Katana was confined to the doldrums of Mombadsa politics. The lady from Kakuyuni in Malindi Sub-County failed to influence political thinking among the Mijikenda voters in Mombasa. She watched haplessly as the Mijikenda opted to elect leaders from outside. Ms Katana&rsquo;s performance as deputy governor leaves a lot to be desired. In fact if she were not a Mijikenda, Joho would have fired her long time back; but he feared to do this for political reasons. Joho needed the Mijikenda votes in 2013 and he will need them again in 2017, if he wants to be re-elected.It should be remembered that the working relationship between Joho and her deputy deteriorated in the March, 2016 by-lection in Malindi sub-county when it was alleged that Ms. Katana was supporting the then JAP; she denied those claims. Ms Katana is not the only politician to ditch ODM for JP. Many others have done it before. They include Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Makindi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro. In Taita Taveta, Senator Dan Mwazo is reportedly heading to the Wiper party.The season for political migration is here with us. But it will not be easy to sell JP in a reluctant region that sees nothing but ODM and CORD, now NASA. The problem is not JP as a political party; the problem, in part, is that JP does not have a strong brigade on the ground to counter the ODM political onslaught. In the Coast region, the slogan &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo; is only read on emblazoned T-shirts not from the word of mouth by JP leaders and their supporters. And this is where ODM party leaders beat them. They boldly and aggressively talk about voting &lsquo;Orange&rsquo;&mdash;the &ldquo;six-piece-suit.&rdquo;Put simply, the JP needs a serious and determined political communications team to lay the tools and strategies to influence political choice in the Coast voter. Lack of public communication is in part what is failing to reverse ODM gains in this region. Take this glaring example: JP comes alive only when President Kenyatta or his deputy, William Ruto, visit the Coast region; as soon as they exist the scene, Jubilee goes to bed.President Kenyatta meant well when he welcomed Ms Katana&rsquo;s defection to JP; however, like the other ODM defectors before her, she still has a long way to influence the people of Mombasa County, in particular the Mijikenda, to vote JP. In other words, Ms. Katana&rsquo;s defection is unlikely to add value to Jubilee.