Jubilee hopefuls in the North Rift are smearing one another and spreading lies their rivals have defected or are running for other seats in the April primaries.Some are incurring heavy costs to print fake defection posters for their rivals to confuse supporters. Other posters say rivals are running for different seats.Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, former Minister Henry Kosgey and Mosop MP aspirant Vincent Tuwei are among those who have suffered from the propaganda.Posters bearing their names and pictures are circulating, alleging they have defected from the Jubilee Party.Tuwei complained bitterly after posters about him indicating he had moved to Kanu. &ldquo;Such propaganda does not sell. It&rsquo;s meant to confuse voters and those doing such are aspirants who fear open, democratic contests where the best wins,&rdquo; he said.Mandago dismissed as propaganda reports that he is planning to join Kanu for fear of flawed JP primaries.Through his communications director Silas Tarus, he blamed his rivals for circulating fake Kanu campaign posters bearing his name and portrait.&ldquo;We know those behind the propaganda but those are sideshows. The governor is firmly in Jubilee, ready for nominations and poised to win,&rdquo; Tarus said. Mandago urged aspirants to promote fair play.Kosgey, a Nandi governor hopeful, had a similar experience when fake posters were circulated indicating he was running for senator. The targets of dirty tricks are travelling around to clear the air and set the record straight.Some hopefuls brand their vehicles with JP logo and colours so their supporters are not duped into thinking they have defected or changed their minds on which seats to run for. They include Mediheal Group of Hospitals CEO Swarrup Mishra who is eyeing the Kesses MP seat.Under the Election Laws, aspirants will not be allowed to defect after the party primaries. The IEBC election timelines released a week ago indicate that those wishing to switch parties have up to the end of this month. Aspirants who have fears of possible flawed party nominations in major parties such as JP and ODM are already considering moving to other parties before the deadline. In other regions, many hopefuls have ditched their parties to ensure their names are on the ballot.