The drugs trade is ruining Mombasa&rsquo;s image as a business hub and must be fought with vigour by all leaders, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti has said. He said the war should not be left to the national government alone.Awiti, who is eyeing the Mombasa governor&rsquo;s seat, said the war on drugs should not be a political tool to settle personal scores.&ldquo;I must speak the truth. There might be a war between the bigger and smaller authorities, but we have to know what exactly they are fighting for,&rdquo; he said. Awiti said the drugs trade and political battles between the national and Mombasa governments are ruining the business environment.&ldquo;You have to respect the President and he should also respect the Mombasa governor. It is a two-way traffic,&rdquo; the lawmaker said.He spoke on Monday when he met communities living in Nyali. During a Wiper rally in Mshomoroni on Sunday, Awiti said the state should treat all drug suspects equally, disregarding political inclinations.&ldquo;Whether you are in Cord or Jubilee, that [drug trade] is a bad business,&rdquo; Awiti said. He said drugs will be a thing of the past if he becomes Mombasa governor.JAIL BARONS IN KENYAThe MP said suspected drug barons should not be extradited, but instead be jailed in Kenya, where the prisons are harsher. &ldquo;If someone sells drugs, arrest and jail them. Do not take them to America. Take them to Shimo la Tewa,&rdquo; Awiti said.He said the drug trade has turned productive youth into zombies, ruining the county&rsquo;s economy. &ldquo;Mombasa is a business city but our youth and women have no jobs. They are resourceful but they have been drugged,&rdquo; Awiti said.Jubilee governor aspirant Suleiman Shahbal last Tuesday said Mombasa has 96,752 drug addicts and more than 60 drug barons.However, Governor Hassan Joho said Shahbal exaggerated the figure, which is about 10 per cent of the Mombasa population.Shahbal said some 40,000 addicts are students aged between 12 and 17. &ldquo;Since 2010, some 6,725 people have died of drug overdose,&rdquo; Shahbal said.President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have declared war on drug trafficking, especially at the Coast. The government said the extradition of the Akasha brothers and two foreigners to the US was an indication of its commitment to fight drug abuse. On Sunday four foreigners suspected to be drug barons were deported. The South African and Seychelles nationals were arrested in Mombasa on Saturday with an unknown quantity of narcotics.The four were airlifted from Mombasa&rsquo;s Moi International Airport to Nairobi&rsquo;s JKIA for deportation.Multiagency detectives apprehended the two South Africans and two Seychellois at an apartment near the Nyali Beach Hotel.