On Monday February 6, 2017, the Daily Nation headlined with a laundry list of troubles afflicting and affecting Kenya including runaway corruption, debilitating youth unemployment, growing poverty, sky-rocketing cost of living, nightmarish food insecurity exacerbated by climate change, unconscionable insecurity and spiraling debt. If we are to regard all these as symptoms and seek an common theme that joins them all and makes them intractable, we will arrive at what is essentially the trouble with Kenya. And as blas&eacute;, unlikely and improbable as this may sound, it is this: the trouble with Kenya is that we suffer from the corrosion of the entrenched, embedded and extremely pernicious problem of sponsorship. Usually, &ldquo;sponsorship&rdquo; is used to describe social relations where those (mainly elderly men) of economic means facilitate those (mainly, younger women) of less economic means with economic goodies in exchange of sexual access and favors. In this context, however, &ldquo;sponsorship&rdquo; is the permissive, pervasive, convoluted, topsy-turvy, tail-wagging-the-dog relationship between a predatory elite and its ethnically-balkanized support base or clients. And because of this, we have been largely unable to call it out, arrest, quarter and eviscerate it. In short, we have been unable to hold it accountable. For any criticism of those governing is deemed, denigrated and dismissed as an attack on a certain ethnic group or alliance; one to be viciously, vociferously and vehemently confronted in a scorched-earth manner. Hence, the reason why our political discourse is dominated by loud decibels of toxic, shrill and assaultive speech. Sponsorship means that corruption, however pervasive and deleterious, does not matter to us if it was undertaken by the cohort we consider to be our political sponsors. &ldquo;It is okay,&rdquo; we are told, &ldquo;the other sponsors are no better anyway.&rdquo; So we allow looting and thievery to go scot free because it is &ldquo;our&rdquo; thieves who undertook it; and &ldquo;their&rdquo; thieves would have done the same had they been in power anyway. No attention is paid to the fact that, in a functioning democratic society, thieving is wrong: and thieves should be punished not rewarded.In fact, we proceed to demand of the thieves, as part of the architecture of sponsorship, that they share with us the spoils from their thieving; making us accomplices and beneficiaries of theft. And we pray for their (and our continued) prosperity. And when this is pointed out to us, our reaction is not only garrulous and belligerent but also smug: &ldquo;Why are you so envious of our prosperity? Why, we can see you swallowing saliva as we eat and swallow meat!&rdquo; But no one has ever questioned whose &ldquo;meat&rdquo; it is we are eating; indeed, we have never questioned what kind of &ldquo;meat&rdquo; it is that we are busy swallowing. The last time someone gently raised this point, observing that we were a man-eat-man society, we dismissively responded that this is better than being a man-eat-nothing society. Tragically, in framing it as a binary, we failed to interrogate whether the only option open to us, if we did not self-cannibalize, was to eat nothing. Is the only and exclusive dish on the menu our fellow Kenyans? Or do we have a full buffet on the national table that we foolishly ignore in our blinkered and myopic gluttony? It is no surprise then that we ravenously swallow the &ldquo;meat&rdquo; meant for our youth: through rampant corruption we deny them the resources, capacities and opportunities to eke out and build humane livelihoods. Instead, we feed them with real, ruinous escapist opiates. And/or mislead them with empty political and religious rhetoric and promises. And, if they become too demanding or troublesome, we &ldquo;eat&rdquo; them too: riddling them with bullets in the name of maintaining law and order. What is in question here is that all of this destitution, death, decimation and destruction would have been prevented; or managed humanely. The narrative around starvation and famine follows a similar path: the bottom line is that they are not &ldquo;us&rdquo; and thus have been abandoned to the short, nasty and brutish vagaries of nature. No wonder then that they are used to asking us when we visit, &ldquo;How is Kenya?&rdquo; Or letting us know that &ldquo;Pwani sio Kenya!&rdquo; Remember the sardonic joke when, after the discovery of exploitable reservoirs of oil in Turkana County, they were to be reclassified as &ldquo;Aturkana&rdquo;? As we march inexorably towards the 2017 elections, it should matter that we are all objects to be parceled out amongst our political sponsors. Yet this is extremely unlikely. We seem incapable of overhauling our reality and reclaiming our true status. So long as we are happy to remain subjects of our respective ethnic regents and royalties we will continue to be toys to pleasure the whims of our divergent owners, subjects and not citizens, slaves and serfs and not free beings, tenants and not landlords. How ironical that we lustfully sing in our national anthem of the desire to dwell in, among others, liberty. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.