The race for Kisii governor is shaping up into a bruising battle pitting incumbent James Ongwae against five aspirants, among them three of his former allies.Barely six months to the general election, the strategic economic hub is set for a heavyweights political duel. Kisii town is home to more than 22 commercial banks with at least three of the banks having two branches each, demonstrating the county&rsquo;s strong economy. It has at least 70 university campuses and colleges.There is also nightlife in Kisii with the town having a number of bars and night clubs.Kisii is undoubtedly a 24-hour economy with huge money circulation &mdash; a key achievement of the Ongwae administration &mdash; with a digital plan for the town already done.The agricultural town is also home to the country's second largest open air-market in Western &mdash; Daraja Mbili. The market, which straddles the Kisii-Kisumu highway, is said to be raking in at least Sh1 million weekly in revenue for the county. As the clock ticks towards the August 8 polls, Governor Ongwae, who is career civil servant turned politician, is facing a formidable reelection challenge.Clanism, betrayal, unfulfilled promises, nepotism and financial are some of the key factors that are likely to determine voting patterns. Ongwae, who was elected by an overwhelming majority in 2013, now faces Deputy Governor Deputy Joash Maangi, Senator Chris Obure, South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya, advocate Lumumba Nyaberi and newcomer architect Boniface Omboto. Ongwae, who was Raila Odinga's chief campaigner prior to the 2013 polls, will defend his seat on the ODM ticket.He has defended his track record, saying he has achieved a lot including the upgrading of the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. He says he has increased the number of doctors from 17 to 150, deployed across the county's health facilities.The governor says some people started campaigning against him only six months after he was elected, singling out Nyamweya. He says the MP abandoned his constituency and started campaigning to unseat him.His rivals has accused him of runaway corruption and exclusivity in his government. But in his defence, Ongwae says, &ldquo;Those claims are all over even in the national government. I have a civil service of 5,000 people and they are drawn from over the county and some from outside. "Those campaigning against me are using roads that I have done. Some of them have no track record." "Despite what my critics and opponents are saying, we have covered a lot of ground. I expect them to discredit me," the governor said in an interview. On education, he says more than 1,000 ECDE teachers have been employed, 300 classes built and 150 others are under construction. Obure, a veteran politician ( has been in politics for 40 years) and Raila&rsquo;s former Kisii point, severed ties with the Cord leader and has since decamped to the Jubilee Party. Maangi, a lawyer by profession, has also defected to Jubilee.Nyamweya, a two-term MP and a successful business tycoon, is still close to Raila but will run on the Kenya National Congress ticket. The new KNC party leader has declared his support for the National Super Alliance. He replaced Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth.Obure and Maangi will compete for the Jubilee party ticket.Ongwae easily rode to victory with ODM in 2013, following a negotiated power sharing deal brokered by Obure. Various clans shared top county positions. However, Ongwae&rsquo;s claims of unfulfilled promises under the agreement, including sharing of influential county jobs are now being used against him in the campaign trail. In the negotiated pact, Obure from Bobasi became senator, Ongwae from Kitutu clan became governor, Maangi from Bomachoge was given the deputy governor, Mary Otara from Bonchari was elected woman representative and Kerosi Ondieki from Nyaribari Chache got the speaker post. Clan politics will be a key determinant in the outcome of the race reading from historical voting patterns. Ongwae is the only candidate from the former Kitutu Chache constituency, which was split into Kitutu Chache South and Kitutu Chache North. Kitutu Chache North is represented by Jimmy Angwenyi of Jubilee who garnered 37, 000 votes in 2013, while Kitutu Chache South MP is Richard Onyonka of ODM who got 45,100. Obure and Nyaberi hail from Bobasi constituency. In the last general election, Bobasi had 66,400 registered voters while Nyamweya&rsquo;s South Mugirango constituency had 51,200 votes. Omboto and Maangi come from Bomachoge Chache represented by Simon Ogari of ODM in the National Assembly. It had 31,400 votes. Neighbouring Bomachoge Borabu, seen as the county&rsquo;s most trusted Jubilee bedrock under Joel Onyancha, had 38,700 votes. &ldquo;Our politics is clan-based, and if you go by the numbers in each clan, Ongwae is the man to beat,&rdquo; Nairobi-based lawyer and political analyst Edward Begi says. &ldquo;Obure and Nyaberi will share the Bobasi votes and probably give Ongwae an easy ride. The incumbent's biggest headache is where he will pick his running mate from to replace Maangi. He has already solidified the Kitutu vote,&rdquo; Begi said. Ongwae is reportedly courting Nairobi county environment executive Peter Kimori who is from Bomachoge Borabu. Obure has already named Albert Nyaundi, a Jubilee operative and former Ford People national chairman, as his running mate. He hails from Bomachoge Borabu. Nyamweya&rsquo;s running mate is high school principal Innocent Mogunde from Bonchari.Nyaberi named Nakuru businessman Charles Birundi from Nyaribari Chache as his running mate. Omboto is also yet to name his running mate but has promised to do so at the opportune time.Maangi says he will oppose Ongwae because they are now in different political parties. &ldquo;We have worked together for past four years and achieved a lot. We now have different political ideologies,&rdquo; Maangi said. Omboto says Obure is old and should retire from politics. Obure is 74 years old. &ldquo;My grandfather voted for Obure as did my father. Do you expect me to also vote for him? He should now give way,&rdquo; Omboto said. Ongwae also took a swipe at Obure saying he has achieved little despite being in government for decades, serving in various ministries. &ldquo;Obure has served in various senior positions in government but has not achieve much,&rdquo;Ongwae But the senator said he is standing for governor because he has realised the people of Kisii are not benefitting from the huge allocations the county receives yearly. &lsquo;I can prove misappropriation and plunder of resources by the county administration. They receive a lot of cash and the county also collects a lot of revenue, but I doubt if anyone in Kisii cansay they have benefitted from these resources,&rdquo; Obure said. Nyamweya, said, &ldquo;Obure is like a grown up that is still suckling his mother&rsquo;s breasts. What do you do in such a case? You put pepper on the breasts to stop him from suckling.&rdquo; Nyaberi said: &ldquo;Obure is not going anywhere. I will beat him in Bobasi constituency.&rdquo;