Tax collection for seven months through January rose 12.82 per cent to Sh687.39 billion from Sh609.24 billion in the same period a year ago, fresh data by the National Treasury shows. The ordinary tax cash netted by the Kenya Revenue Authority represent 51.68 per cent of the initial full-year target of Sh1.33 trillion, Treasury CS Henry Rotich says in the Statement of Actual Revenues and Net Exchequer Issues.Treasury on February 9 revised upwards tax targets for the full-year to June 30 to Sh1.5 trillion, citing more than expected collections in the seven months. Economists have, however, termed the upward revision of tax collection by double-digits as &ldquo;too optimistic&rdquo; because of expected slowdown in economic growth this year due to thinning private sector credit growth and famine. The national wealth, technically called gross domestic product, is projected to expand by between 5.4 and 5.7 per cent compared to an estimated 5.9 per cent last year. &ldquo;We are surprised by the increase in revenue collection for the current fiscal year, given our expectation (of) some slowing of economic momentum,&rdquo; London-based Standard Chartered Bank's chief economist for Africa Razia Khan told Reuters two weeks ago. The KRA is banking on continued recruitment of new taxpayers through online tax filing platform, iTax, and increased collection following the enforcement of the Excise Duty Act 2015, to meet the ambitious target. The taxman also started linking iTax to third-party databases in December, with the first phase targeting companies getting state tenders under the Integrated Financial Management Information System. &ldquo;There will be some taxes that we can recover directly even before the money is paid to somebody because of that linkage, like withholding VAT and withholding income tax,&rdquo; KRA commissioner-general John Njiraini said during an earlier interview on the iTax-IFMIS linkage. Tax collection accounted for 71.64 per cent of the Sh959.53 billion in total government revenues in the seven-month period from last July, the Treasury data shows. The growth in government's total revenue was almost flat year-on-year, rising 1.17 per cent compared to Sh948.41 billion in the first seven months of the previous financial year, 2015-16. Non-tax income increased by a third to Sh32.66 billion in January compared with Sh25.10 billion the year before. Net domestic borrowing in the review period fell by Sh45.46 billion or 20.93 per cent to Sh171.76 billion.