It&rsquo;s an election year in Kenya and the stakes, as always, are high. As a result, there are no holds barred when it comes to the lies politicians can tell for your vote.You may expect a tsunami of lies, or as President Trump&rsquo;s advisers might say, &ldquo;alternative facts.&rdquo; There will also be lots of &ldquo;boy who cried wolf&rdquo; tales. These are truths told by people known for their lies and so find it difficult to be believed when they are actually telling the truth.In a nutshell, Kenyans should be ready to see and hear lies, damned lies and shady statistics published and spoken, all in the cause of getting them to vote one way or the other. Of course, none of this is new. Around the world there have been examples of such goings on, with the recent presidential election in the US being the most glaring. In that election, the truth was so well hidden in among the loud lies and wishful thinking that some voters have ended up resembling turkeys voting for Christmas.In Kenyan politics, the lies are usually part and parcel of the promises our politicians make. I think it was President Moi who once likened the promises of politicians to the sweet nothings of seducers who have only one goal.The trouble with us as Kenyans is that we are so desperate and so ready to fall for any and all lies politicians spew forth, and especially if they are from our clan, our village, our tribe and are aimed at that other other clan, village, tribe - that we seldom stop to cut through all the garbage and think things through for ourselves.Let&rsquo;s face it, we are so completely overwhelmed by the lies our politicians tell and spread to us via newspapers, TV, internet, in bars and even in the communal spaces of the office that perhaps it&rsquo;s easier to just go with the flow than to try and fathom who to trust and whom to believe.And that, my friends, is the problem. The only place to look for the truth is beginning to seem as though it was with us all along, we just never bothered to consult it. We need to look at the actual records of the leaders vying for re-election and the newbies joining the political rat race.It may sound like a lot of work, but believe you me, it is a heck of a lot more reliable than anything else I can think of. What you will have to do is decide that if X wants to become my new MCA, MP, senator, governor or President then we must look to see what X has achieved other than self-enrichment at others&rsquo; expense.Has X been involved in useful and sustainable devlopment activities, and here I don&rsquo;t mean flashing cash at harambees, but actual grassroots work. If X is a wealthy businessman or woman, how did they come about their wealth? If X is promising free-healthcare for everyone, do they have a plan? Or is it just porojo?