The five men who were slain and their bodies dumped in Kamae Forest will be buried tomorrow in Sachangwan and Molo.Three brothers will be laid to rest at their father&rsquo;s farm in Sachangwan. Their two cousins will be buried in Molo and Mau Summit the same day.The family had earlier planned to bury them today, but said they had not completed the burial arrangements and pushed the funeral to tomorrow.&ldquo;Due to unavoidable circumstances, they will be buried on Wednesday instead of Tuesday as planned earlier. Our cousins will also be buried on the same day,&rdquo; Peter Kigo, a Kenyatta University students and a brother to the three slain men, said.The five were reported missing for three weeks. The three brothers Paul Mutunga, 31, Paul Mwai, 26, and Daniel Ikenye, 22, and their cousin Francis Kariuki left home on January18 to register as voters, but they did not return. Their bodies were discovered at Kamae Forest in Thika on January 29.Their other cousin, only identified as Patrick, also went missing the same week. David Njenga, who identified the bodies of the three brothers and their cousin at Nairobi City Mortuary on February 1, said the fifth victim is related to them. &ldquo;We never knew the fifth body collected with the four in Kamae Forest belonged to our family. It was a shock as he was our cousin but we only realised this after talking to the relatives at the morgue,&rdquo; Njenga said.Kigo said the body had bullet wounds on the chest. The family said it looked like acid was poured on the body. The fifth person went missing the same week the other four were reported missing. The circumstances surrounding his disappearance are still unclear. A special team of homicide experts from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has taken over the probe into the killings.&ldquo;Seven family members have recorded statements,&rdquo; Kigo said.Last week, DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro said the team is under firm instructions to ensure those behind the killings are arrested and brought to book. &ldquo;I regret the incident. The directorate has the capacity to handle the matter. The report of missing persons must be handled with the urgency they deserve. Those with missing relatives should report to police as fast as they can,&rdquo; he said. Muhoro assured the family the killings will be investigated Mutunga has left a widow and two children aged 13 and 11. Mwai has left behind a widow and a four-year-old child. Ikenye&rsquo;s widow is expectant.Tens of residents, relatives and friends continued milling around the homestead to comfort the family.