Desperation is written all over his face and his worry lines deepen as the drought continues to bite.He has lost all his livestock and all he is left with are his children, and he is unable to feed them.This is the sorry state of Dima Kusale, a father of eight in Malabot, North Horr subcounty, Marsabit county. His story represents that of many families staring at starvation if urgent action is not taken to mitigate the severe drought in Northern Kenya.Each day, they wake up looking up to the sky with the hope that their fate will change and God will bless them with rain.Kusale says he used to have a lot of goats but the drought swept his livestock clean, living him with no hope.He says he doesn&rsquo;t expect to even benefit from the livestock buying programme put in place by the Kenya Meat Commission to mitigate the effects of the drought.The commission buys goats from residents at Sh2,000 each and slaughters them to distribute the meat to needy households. The money is given to the livestock sellers so they can buy other foodstuff or save the money to restock when the drought is over.Another resident, Gedo Duba, says the drought is so bad they don&rsquo;t have milk and meat, which is the staple food for pastoralist communities.&ldquo;We depend on livestock. There is no milk or meat. The remaining livestock are too weak to even stand. We have received food for two days but that doesn&rsquo;t help much,&rdquo; Duba says.Fellow resident Buquno Isacko says if they didn&rsquo;t get help from the meat commission, he is not sure they would have survived that day, having gone without meal for days.&ldquo;We have nothing to help ourselves with. Since December it has been hard. If these people didn&rsquo;t come to help us even today, we would have had someone die of hunger,&rdquo; he said.Bernard Chege, a veterinary officer for North Horr subounty, said failure of the October-November rains brought about a lot of challenges as the land cannot produce grass for pasture.&ldquo;Nature has a way of communicating to us, saying this land cannot support the number of animals, and we are helping nature to reduce the number by doing slaughtering and restocking. We are targeting the most vulnerable households,&rdquo; Chege says.He added: &ldquo;We make a list of beneficiaries we tell them to produce their animals each beneficiary produces one animal. We buy and slaughter the animal give the meat to the local people and also the money so that they can either buy other food stuff or use it to restock their livestock during the rainy season.&rdquo;KMC managing commissioner Joseph Learamo says the commission has spent Sh170 million on drought mitigation.The commission has bought 7,080 livestock, which it targets to slaughter and distribute to households affected by drought. It is targeting people in, Baringo, Isiolo, Laikipia, Marsabit and Samburu counties, among others.In Marsabit county alone, the commission has slaughtered 2,000 goats and plans to slaughter another 1,700 goats. In Turkana county, it has slaughtered 3,000 goats. Some 6,000 cows were also purchased for slaughtering. Each household is given 2-3kgs of meat.&ldquo;We are getting a very good response from the people. So far we have exhausted the first phase of Sh170 million funding we received, and we are waiting to receive the second batch to enable us continue with the programme,&rdquo; Learamo said.