Turkana,also known as the Cradle of Mankind, is the second largest county, covering more than 13 per cent of Kenya.It is largely arid and occupied by the Turkana community. The county is also home to more than 400,000 Somali and South Sudan refugees at the Kakuma camp. Despite being arid, Turkana is an awakening economic giant because beneath it lies huge oil deposits, which will soon be extracted for commercial purposes.Huge fresh water deposits have also been discovered.The resources come as a windfall for a county that has since Independence been known mainly for marginalisation, disease, poverty, hunger, malnutrition, insecurity, illiteracy and general underdevelopment.It is this background, newfound resources and potential that will play a great role in Turkana politics. The county receives more than Sh12 billion annually from Treasury.With over 132,000 registered voters and the IEBC targeting another 150,000, Turkana is already experiencing political heat, pitting the Jubilee Party against a united opposition.JUBILEE ONSLAUGHTGovernor Josphat Nanok of ODM faces an onslaught by Senator John Munyes of Jubilee. He defected from Cord co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s Ford Kenya, where he was chairman. &ldquo;ODM, or the opposition in general, is so strong in Turkana that Jubilee stands no chance,&rdquo; Nanok says.The use of more than Sh50 billion disbursed to the county since the onset of devolution has been a major subject of discussion among the leaders in the region, who argue a lot of that cash has gone to waste during Nanok&rsquo;s administration.Deputy President William Ruto is among top Jubilee leaders who are frequenting the region to campaign. &ldquo; Turkana has received about Sh50 billion, an amount that has never been seen here since God created the world. But there is no indication how this money was utilised,&rdquo; Ruto said during his recent tour to mobile residents to register as voters.But Governor Nanok says DP Ruto is well aware of how the funds have been used. He argues devolution has completely transformed the lives of residents, and his track record can only be challenged by those who want to ignore the truth.NANOK&rsquo;S ACHIEVEMENTSThe county has constructed and equipped more than 250 ECD centres and employed 300 teachers.&ldquo;We have sunk 150 boreholes and we are rehabilitating others. We aim to construct two dams in every ward,&rdquo; says Nanok.The county is connecting high-yielding boreholes with solar pumping systems and linking them to various networks in 50 sites.To boost food security, the county is establishing new irrigation schemes, the Nakwamoru Irrigation Scheme and at Lomidat spate dam in Turkana West, with construction of model drip irrigation systems in Kapese in Lokichar, Lobei in Loima, Kachoda in Lapur and Nakukulas in Turkana East in the pipeline.Nanok says about 618 acres have been utilised for crop production, which has benefitted over 5,000 people. The aim is to increase this to 2,050 acres to curb food shortage.On health, the governor says the change of status of Lodwar District Hospital to a county referral institution, which was his flagship project, has enhanced the facility&rsquo;s diagnostic capacity. The hospital is now equipped with an oxygen plant, a CT scan, a medical supplies store and cold chain for vaccines, all of which have greatly reduced mortality rates and the number of referrals outside the county. They have also built a new mortuary.The county has upgraded over 30 dispensaries to health centres, constructed 90 new dispensaries and work on another 30 is ongoing. Over 670 health workers have been employed and deployed across the county. Thirteen ambulances have been procured.&ldquo;The health sector alone has taken more than 20 per cent of our budget and the impact can be felt across the county,&rdquo; Nanok says. The county has been distributing relief food to more than 600,000 residents promptly.Access to solar power for public utilities has improved through the county&rsquo;s efforts to fit each of these institutions with solar power systems. Fourteen market stalls have been built in all the six subcounties.But even with such an impressive record, Munyes and his team argue very little has been achieved by Nanok&rsquo;s government, with a lot of money being lost to graft. A number of officials face corruption charges.The senator says Turkana has plenty of wind, sun, water and underground steam for geothermal power, which could make it a powerhouse in sustainable energy.&ldquo;I will make devolution a reality for the people of Turkana, who have been forgotten for a very long time. They should not be exposed to any further suffering because of poor management of resources,&rdquo; Munyes says.NANOK AND MUNYES&rsquo;s SUPPORT BASE Nanok and Munyes enjoy huge support across the county, but the senator got a boost after five of the six MPs in the region moved with him to the Jubilee Party.&ldquo;Because of oil and other resources in Turkana, there is a lot of internal and external interest in local politics. But as the people of Turkana, we should safeguard our interests and avoid electing leaders who will only exploit us further,&rdquo; John Lokwan of the Turkana Civil Society Network said.The Reverend Paul Lodepe says the people of Turkana have suffered for a long time but with devolution and the newfound resources, a bright future lies ahead for the county. He said that can only be achieved through good leadership. While Nanok has been supporting a bill providing that 10 per cent of oil revenues should remain in the county, Munyes attracted criticism when he publicly backed a government proposal to cut the benefits to five per cent. The politics of oil will determine voting patterns.Late last year, Nanok spearheaded the campaigns for an ODM candidate who won the Kalokol MCA by-election. He said the victory pointed to the possible outcome in the August polls. President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP Ruto and opposition leaders are expected to turn Turkana into a major political battleground with the keen interest they have already shown in the region. In 2013 Raila Odinga got 68 per cent of the votes in the region against President Uhuru&rsquo;s 30.Nominated MCA Margaret Loduk has also announced her interest in the governor post on the Jubilee Party. But analysts say her bid may not go past the Jubilee primaries.Other county leaders are Senate Speaker Ekwee Ethuro, Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot, who has announced his bid for President, and Turkana South MP James Lomenen.