The truth really hurts. And untruths will forever remain untruths.Raphael Tuju&rsquo;s comment in the Star of January 31, depicting ODM leader Raila Odinga as the enemy of democracy, is another futile attempt by the Jubilee administration to hoodwink Kenyans.He attempted to paint the opposition as demons sent from hell to undermine democracy and the government as angels upholding democracy. This despite the numerous roadblocks the administration puts up against fair electoral competition.The opposition has faithfully played its role of keeping the government in check, as expected in any mature democracy the world over. The government could have helped by conducting itself in such a manner that it had little to be criticised.The ground is tilting as Kenyans fight for credible leadership that can account for its deeds rather than blame others for its misdeeds. The Jubilee government has ignored any interaction with the opposition on issues of national importance. It only accedes to quasi-dialogues when there is too much acrimony over an issue, such as sending the electoral commissioners home last year.Jubilee&rsquo;s actions since 2013 read like a catalogue of how to undermine the August 8 election. It has used its numerical advantage in Parliament to push through legislation against the media, civil society and trade unions, with potentially catastrophic implications for fundamental freedoms.The notorious Security Laws (Amendment) Act, for instance, amended 22 laws and placed restrictions on the freedoms of expression and assembly. Kenya would have turned into a mammoth prison had the courts not suspended eight draconian laws and the Miscellaneous (Amendment) Bill of 2013, which capped funding of nonprofits by foreign sources at 15 per cent.The Jubilee government has shown it couldn&rsquo;t care less for an informed citizenry. It has always rubbished Raila&rsquo;s warnings, which eventually turn out to be true, for instance the double registration of voters.The government ignored all facts that indicated electronic backup for voter identification and electronic transmission of results are feasible and forcibly amended electoral laws, allowing for manual backup instead.It appears the Jubilee government would not mind if our electoral system degenerated into a typical &lsquo;African one&rsquo;, where the person who occupies State House is determined by forces other than voters.Tuju is proud that the National Intelligence Service hit back at Raila for alleging it helped the IEBC register foreigners as voters. But what else could it have done other than deny it? It is not the first time that the intelligence community in Kenya has been involved in elections, and I would not be surprised if they were to do it even after the end of registration.So who has really undermined democracy, Raila or the Jubilee government? The government has branded Raila an enemy of development. It has even alleged that Kenya does not receive sufficient FDI inflows because of the street protests the opposition organises in the name of democracy. But it forgets that a functional democracy takes care of businesses&rsquo; best interests.Jubilee&rsquo;s wish is that no one comments on its corrupt tendencies, so it can carry on with business as usual. It is okay for Jubilee leaders when Sh34 billion from Eurobond proceeds cannot be accounted for, or the Health ministry account for Sh3.5 billion. It is also such a pity that the Sh791 million NYS scandal was unearthed.Genuine investors prefer to deal with honest people with a functioning democracy and reliable courts that can resolve their commercial grievances on top of other matters. They will not embrace a regime that oversees a country ranked amongst the top 20 most corrupt nations. Even local investors will not be confident enough to sink their money in mega projects if they are not sure of the regime&rsquo;s behaviour in the coming years.My advice to Tuju: Please look elsewhere for answers on why Kenyans mistrust the Jubilee administration. You cannot absolve it of corruption, partisan development and other misdeeds by simply demonising Raila.Senator (Dr) Agnes Zani is Ag. Secretary General, ODM