Stockbrokers and fund managers have been the hardest hit by the turbulence in the banking industry that has seen investors flee the Nairobi Securities Exchange, the Capital Markets Authority said yesterday. The enforcement of interest control law last September against the backdrop of collapse of Imperial and Chase Bank, which had raised cash through NSE, has taken a toll on market intermediaries, the CMA said in Premier Capital Markets Report for the fourth quarter of last year. &ldquo;The year was tough for market intermediaries&rsquo; especially stock brokers and investment banks taking into consideration the declining share prices of the top movers and the fixing of bank interest rate that affected the share prices of banks,&rdquo; the regulator says. &ldquo;Decline in turnover results in a commensurate decline in transaction fees which are calculated as a percentage of turnover, being a factor of volume and share price.&rdquo; The banking stocks on the NSE lost about Sh40 billion last year, largely due capping of interest rates on loans at four percentage points above the 10 per cent Central Bank Rate, the report states.This was after the value of the banking sector dipped to 28.93 per cent of the total NSE value last year from 47.96 per cent the year before. &ldquo;Analysis of the effect of the caps indicate a negative effect so far on the secondary equities market. The erosion is still being witnessed with the current bear run in the market,&rdquo; the CMA says. &ldquo;Further, the interest rate caps have limited access to credit by SMEs and other small businesses as banks resort to loaning the government as it is less risky.&rdquo; The CMA says the delayed resolution of receivership of Chase Bank and Imperial Bank which had raised Sh&hellip;. and Sh&hellip;. through corporate bonds has affected new issues on the NSE. The regulator said it was pursuing possible intervention to unlock the investors' funds in the two banks, including full implementation of Section 29 of the Kenya Deposit Insurance Act. This will see will see custodial accounts held in commercial banks and designated trust accounts continue to operate or transferred to another custodian to allow normal operations when an institution is placed under receivership.