Baracuda Airways CEO John Majiwa is set to be charged in court on Monday after he was arrested for conning clients of over Sh200 million. Majiwa was nabbed by Flying Squad officers on Saturday in the Nairobi CBD while heading to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Police believe Majiwa wanted to flee the country after being exposed for the alleged fraud.  John Majiwa arrested by flying squad on Saturday, February 25, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJA Flying Squad officers said Majiwa had escaped their dragnet on Wednesday when the matter was first reported to them. They said they detected his movements and trailed him for two days before he was arrested. He was arrested alongside four women and a man believed to be his accomplices.  John Majiwa, Stella Amaya and Elizabeth Wanjiru recong statement after they were arrested by flying squad on Saturday, February 25, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJA The six were taken to Kilimani flying squad headquarters where they were interrogated before being taken to police cells. Among those arrested include a serving police officer in the presidential escort; Stella Amaya, the company's Finance director; and Elizabeth Wanjiru director of BOD. Majiwa who runs the airways is accused of fraudulently acquiring millions from more than 40 investors. Police say preliminary investigations have determined that Majiwa was using the names of Deputy President Willam Ruto and Mama Ngina Kenyatta to con the investors.  John Majiwa inside police vehicle after he was arrested by flying squad on Saturday, February 25, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJA  One of the investors who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said she was introduced to Majiwa and Baracuda airways by her uncle. "In September last year I was called for co-pilot interviews and was among six people who passed the interview," she said. She said Majiwa asked them to pay Sh2.7 million each in order to attend a special training in South Africa.  "He told us Ruto and Mama Ngina had shares in the company. Being that my uncle introduced me to the company I had no doubt that it was a legitimate company, she said. She said Majiwa was among those who conducted interviews at Weston hotel. "We paid the cash on grounds that on completion of the training in SA we could ask for our claims after investors put in their money," she said. She said while in South Africa in October, Majiwa told them that Prince Rahim of Saudi Arabia had visited Kenya and promised to heavily invest in the airline. Majiwa requested them to deposit some money on his account to activate and ease bank transactions it since the company had not officially opened an account, she said. "It is from here that we started sensing something wrong. All in all we did not deposit the money," she said. On completion of the training, they came back to Kenya and were promised to commence operations in December. She added that after arriving from the training, Majiwa went missing and his phone switched off. A sustained probe by herself and five other trainees revealed that Majiwa had recruited about 6 pilots and 30 cabin crew, a majority of whom had reportedly been sacked by Kenya Airways. Majiwa promised the six prominent jobs within the company's management to silence them after the fraud allegations were made public. He started using them to lure recruits who were also paying large sums of money on grounds that they would be sent to Dubai and Canada for training. "I launched my own investigations and realised that the Baracuda Airways was a scam; it was previously branded as Baracuda holdings before the name was changed," the trainee said. "Further investigations pointed that Prince Rahim rejected the offer to invest in the company after he realised that the company had not acquired even a single plane," she added. She says that she and the other five trainees were issued with termination letters allegedly because word got back to Majiwa of their investigations into the company The company reportedly has an air service license from Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, which is used to defraud innocent Kenyans. It is said Majiwa has powerful connections, including prominent people in the government. His is linked with defrauding Weston Hotel, owned by the Deputy President, of over Sh56 million after conducting two-weeks training session for some of the cabin crew members. By Saturday evening, Weston Hotel had not made an official statement. Another hotel by the name Dove in Naivasha has also reportedly fallen victim. Majiwa is said to have conducted several retreats at Dove for his staff and issued them bouncing cheques. More than 15 people have recorded statements and issued critical evidence against Majiwa. Update: Barracuda Airways CEO charged with receiving Sh9.7m from jobseekers