In Delhi, India, there is a magnificent 17th century building known as the Red Fort. It has several wondrous structures, including Diwan-i-Khaas, a white marble pavilion the emperor used to hold durbar, or court. Inscribed in Arabic on one of its walls: If there is paradise on the face of this earth, it is this.I was watching all of this in a documentary, and as I ooh-ed and aah-ed at the beauty and enormity of the fort, it was the inscription that stuck in my mind. I couldn&rsquo;t help but think of Kenya as that paradise on earth. Many Kenyans would disagree. They would say instead paradise is in the West. And so they dream of one day moving there, to join the millions of other Kenyans who&rsquo;ve already gone there, settled, and made better lives for themselves. From many a Kenyan&rsquo;s lips are words of praise of how much better the West is, compared to Kenya.It is indeed much better in the West than it is here. There, you will find wonderful things like social welfare programmes, comprehensive universal healthcare through the National Health Service (UK), laws that are adhered to, enough food such that no one dies of hunger, upward social mobility, and better managed transport systems. However, it is also in the developed world and not Kenya that one finds exceedingly harsh natural occurrences like hurricanes, earthquakes, snowstorms, summer heat waves, and the much more regular subzero temperatures of winter, and that does not sound like paradise at all. All that is good in the West was made by man, while all that is good in Kenya is God-given. Our calamities, unlike in the West, are not of the wrath of God variety, but rather they&rsquo;re man-made, and therefore they can be unmade. Over there, they can do absolutely nothing about their bone-chilling snow, house flattening winds, and summer heat that kills old people. In Kenya, we can do a lot to eradicate tribal conflicts, poverty, inadequate healthcare, starvation, corruption, and all else that ails us. Much is wrong in Kenya, but it can be fixed.