I was born in Nanyuki Army barracks. Both my parents were millitary officers. Discipline even at home was highly valued. My mum Pauline Njeri ensured I would grow into an agent of change by doing something extraordinary in my life. My uncle Kuria and late grandfather Hezekiah Gatonye also taught me to become the man that I am today by always giving me guidance. My late grandpa once told me that you should only listen to people who add value to your life and also encourage you, and disregard all others as they will never help you prosper. WEEKDAYS 5AM-6.30PMI wake up at 5am, thank God for another day, then at times, I go for a morning run, depending on the timings I have got and my schedule that morning. Keeping fit is key for all human beings, as it will ensure you are healthy and not affected by some diseases. 7AM-11AMI get to work at around seven in the morning, from where I set up my diary and note down what schedule I will follow. From here I also attend to clients, whom I supply products to. My company is called Brainstar Technology Services. It has been a hustle to get here, as I started by selling movies and progressed to supplying schools with equipment. Currently, I have over 1,000 websites under my name. This is all through putting God in everything that I do. 11AM-1PMI do some networking and market my business. This ensures I always have a ready client&egrave;le and also progression in business. I sometimes take this time to update websites that I handle when not busy. For lunch, I love rice and meat accompanied by some vegetables. This has been my favourite meal since I was a kid.1PM-5PMOne of my biggest aims and missions is the youth in Kenya. I tend to do a meet-up in the afternoons, where I educate them on ways they can move to the next step and in the right direction. This is also the reason why I joined politics: to represent young people in matters that concern them and also be their voice.WEEKENDSI am a football lover and die-hard Manchester United fan. I spend most Saturdays keeping abreast of what is happening in the world of football. I also at times go for swimming at the Thika Sports Club. My Sundays are my days of rest. I first attend mass at St Joseph Catholic Church in Landless estate, then I spend the rest of the day planning for my week.