In Kenya, the legitimacy of polls largely depends on which side of the political divide you support and how polls portray your candidate. If your candidate is winning (or improving), the polls are credible, and vice versa. Globally, opinion polls have come under scrutiny following Donald Trump&rsquo;s perceived win. Polls showed him losing. However, no political strategist worth his salt would ignore polls. In fact, parties and candidates often conduct internal polls to gauge their performance and decide where to spend money and which regions are a waste of often limited resources. Locally, every major campaign relies on polls to make important strategic decisions. Which brings me to today&rsquo;s polls. Two things scream at us: Uhuru Kenyatta has fallen below the 50%+1 mark for the first time in Star polls and Raila Odinga has gained an almost similar margin (though within the 2.9% margin of error). Secondly and more importantly for NASA, his entry and wide speculation around Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s candidacy apparently has not dented Raila's popularity nationally. It is, however, instructive to note Mudavadi&rsquo;s increasingly significant role in NASA has elevated him to equal footing with Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka &mdash; reason for Kalonzo to be concerned. For Jubilee, the results were predictable for two reasons. First, there has been significant negative news. The doctors' strike, the drought and hunger. Secondly, there has been heightened activity from both camps due to intense voter registration campaigns. In this scenario, NASA would invariably get a boost, given they have more surrogates (Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi, Wetang'ula, and the indefatigable Mombasa governor). This against Jubilee&rsquo;s two &mdash; Uhuru and DP William Ruto. (Very few JP leaders who can stand on their own and attract support, save for Senator Sonko.) There is another reason Jubilee should worry about these polls &mdash; results for Kajiado and Nairobi. Whereas they show margins between Uhuru and Raila to be much higher (in favour of Uhuru) the reality is they are likely to be coalition-neutral at best. So Uhuru's lead could be much lower. Overall, an Uhuru-Raila duel is increasingly likely, despite complicated NASA math. No other NASA candidate can claim Raila's perceived credentials: Anti-corruption, pro-reform, pro-devolution. And the louder the anti-corruption crusade, the higher the chances of Raila flooring other NASA candidates for the joint ticket (should it occur).