Clearly, the electorate does not understand aspirants or candidates for various electoral positions as servant leaders but as merchants who have come to them to buy leadership, which they are eager to sell to them. What then is the language of these merchants who have come to buy leadership? Like any other merchants, aspirants speak the language of money, which they use to buy leadership. Unexpectedly, hopefuls do not speak the language of policies, which voters would be thirsting to know from them or problems that voters would be most eager to inform their future leaders. In Kenya, the meaning of campaigns is that time when voters sell leadership to aspirants and a time when aspirants buy leadership from the voters. In short, campaign time is time to sell and buy leadership in the market of elections, whose real meaning has been distorted. However, there is one thing that should, but does not happen, in our elections. Voters, and the aspirants they vote for, do not enter into a contract of service that makes voters the employers and leaders their servants. Without such a contract, voting is a mere business, in which sellers and buyers sell and buy leadership after which voters wait for the electoral market five years later. When voters complain that leaders, to whom they sold leadership to, do not return to them or serve them after the elections, they forget that those leaders owe them nothing after selling leadership to them. As a business transaction, elections demand that candidates come to the market with money and must belong to the ethnicity of the electorate. Anyone who does not meet these two basic conditions is disadvantaged. Because buying leadership through bribery of voters is fraudulent business, the legality of its currency is never demanded. Voters don't ask where the cash used to bribe them comes from. When governors, MPs, county speakers and or MCAs give money to voters, they never query its source. Other than coming from questionable and dirty sources, bribing voters is illegal because giving money to voters in harambees and other functions is forbidden by law. Yet people who should defend the law most for their own protection, do everything possible to circumvent the law and receive this money illegally. To justify their taking the dirty cash, voters argue that it is fair to take it because it is money stolen from them. But this argument assumes this money is taken from thieves who have stolen from them. But these voters demand money from everybody, including those who are not thieves. This can only translate into sale of votes. However the worst boomerang of this money from aspirants is that, once candidates buy leadership from voters, they will use their positions to recover equal money from voters through bribes for jobs and business tenders or neglect services to the same people who sold this leadership. They will be busy earning back the money they gave the voters. Unfortunately, through bribery of voters, people get the worst possible leaders, or thieves, who have made money through theft, corruption, bribery or narcotics. There is no way voters can elect leaders who have made money illegally and expect to have good leaders. Voters who sell leadership also remain in abject poverty because candidates who buy votes owe voters nothing and, therefore, do nothing to solve their problems. Indeed, there is no social contract between the voters and the leaders to facilitate this. To give meaning to our elections, before nominations, people and voters must be taught why they should not sell leadership, failure to which they will suffer dire consequences from the same bad leaders they will have put into elective positions. Ultimately, money that voters take from candidates to vote for them is their worst enemy of elections and democracy. To secure our freedom, people must be taught to vote best leaders from their consciences and never from the persuasion of bribery.