DP William Ruto has told opposition leaders that they are free to hold their rallies in Jubilee strongholds without any fear of intimidation or harassment.Ruto said residents in areas perceived to be Jubilee strongholds are peace-loving Kenyans who have nothing to do with politics of intimidation and harassment.The Deputy President was addressing wananchi at Malava, Mautuma and Sango in Likuyani Constituency, Kakamega County on Saturday.He also launched the Last Mile Electricity Project.Present were Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Water and Irrigation) and Charles Keter (Energy), MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Enock Kibuguchi (Likuyani), John Waluke (Sirisia) and former Kakamega County Lands executive Suleiman Sumba, who has defected from ODM to Jubilee.Others were Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), David Were (Matungu), Janet Nangabo (Trans nzoia), David Wafula Saboti) and Malulu Injendi (Malava). &ldquo;We are assuring Opposition leaders that they are free to hold their peaceful rallies in our strongholds and that&rsquo;s why they are in Eldoret today,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Unlike the way they (Opposition) treat other people in their strongholds, I want to assure them that we are we are peaceful,&rdquo; he added.He said time was ripe for Kenyans to embrace politics of tolerance where leaders were free to sell their policies in any part of the country without any fear of intimidation by those who are opposed to their leadership. The Deputy President, at the same time, urged Western Kenya residents to elect leaders based on their development track records. Ruto who also addressed meetings in Pan Paper in Webuye West constituency and Fubuye market in Malava Constituency said there was no need for Kenyans to continue supporting leaders whose performance on matters of development was questionable.&ldquo;Some of our competitors have served in previous governments for a long time and in senior positions like Prime Minister, Vice President, deputy Prime Minister and ministers but have nothing to show in terms of development,&rdquo; said Ruto. Wamalwa said the Opposition was only interested in power of politics but Jubilee was playing politics of empowerment. The Water Cabinet Secretary challenged the opposition to state its agenda instead of politicizing and fabricating lies about the Government&rsquo;s development agenda. &ldquo;Leadership is about service delivery and not about creating titles which cannot help improve lives of Kenyans,&rdquo; Wamalwa said. He said NASA leaders had emulated what Jubilee had done by forming one coalition despite previously criticizing other parties for joining Jubilee. Ruto said Jubilee in barely four years in office has implemented its development agenda for Kenyans in the fields of health, energy, infrastructure, water among other sectors compared to 50 year rule by the previous regimes. In Kakamega County for example, the Deputy President said the Government has connected 85,000 households to electricity up from 28,000 households in 2013. He said the number of the elderly people from disadvantaged backgrounds benefiting from the Cash Transfer Programme in Kakamega County has increased from 11,000 in 2013 to 28,000. Ruto said the water shortage being witnessed in some parts of the County could have been solved if those in charge of its funds allocated by the national government were put in good use and in line with the priority needs of the people. &ldquo;This County gets an allocation of Sh10billion every year for its development programmes. If it was used in line with the priority needs of the people, water shortage would have been a thing of the past in Likuyani,&rdquo; said Ruto. &ldquo;It is because of this that I ask you to elect Jubilee leaders who can prioritize the development needs of the people,&rdquo; added Mr Ruto. Leaders from the region said they will vote carefully come August election so as not to make another mistake of being in the Opposition.