With the transfer window now firmly shut, Thika United completed the signing of six players acquired from different teams in the second tier.Thika United, who had already promoted three of their Under-20 junior team players&mdash;James Kinyanjui, Francis Muturi and Samuel Chege&mdash;into the senior team, are seeking to beef up all departments. Those who have joined Thika United are former Talanta duo Caleb Wafula (goalkeeper) and Peter Okoth (winger); striker Edmond Adem (Palos); midfielder Dennis Lewa from Coast Stima; winger Benson Iregi and central defender Sosthenes Khakali Idah from Bidco FC.The club will also be without their Cameroonian import Joel Tata, who is in Europe for a set of trials with three different clubs seeking to sign him if successful.The talented left-footed attacker joined Thika United from City Stars in June 2016, managing one goal and two assists. Tata has also had stints with Raja Casablanca of Morocco before coming to Kenya.Coach James Nandwa confirmed that Tata will miss the start of the new league season. &ldquo;We will be without Tata for the start of the season as the league is due for commencement in two weeks time. He will be away for the next one month,&rdquo; Nandwa added. The club let go of youngsters Brian Toorach (forward), Eric Lusala (left back) and Patrick Kimani (defender), who have been with the club for one season. Coach Nandwa said the trio will not be in his plans for 2017 season.&ldquo;We have let go of these three so that they may get some game time elsewhere,&rdquo; he said. Thika, who struggled to remain in the top flight league, also saw Dennis Odhiambo exit for Bandari and he is now reportedly the subject of double signing having also been registered as a Thika Player. Defensive muscle man Victor Omumbo has joined Sportesa Premier League champions Tusker. Thika were yesterday due to know whether they had met the club licensing requirements that would give them the leeway to feature in the top flight league. Thika, alongside, Sofapaka and Muhoroni Youth had resubmitted their documents for re-evaluation after the FKF Independent Disciplinary and Appeals Committee had ruled that they be granted another opportunity to resubmit their club licensing documents for scrutiny.