By now we know who's been the king of social media for the last few days after he met, interacted and also dined with President Uhuru Kenyatta... here is none other than Radio Jambo presenter, Mbusii.President Kenyatta won the hearts of many, especially the youth after he shared photos of him interacting with the youth, among them Teke Teke drive show co-host and Rufftone, though obviously, Mbusii is obviously breaking the interwebs.Known as one of the most humble celebrities in the nation, this guy's down to earth nature is majorly part of the reason he's resonated well with his ever growing fan base.We all know how hard it is to win the president's attention, leave alone earning an invite to Statehouse, the house on the hill where many wish to step foot in.Being the first time he was setting foot at Statehouse, it didn't come easy as the presenter attempted to access the most guarded building in the country. &nbsp; "Kwanza unajua kwanza nilihata gate vile nilifika hapo juu nilijifanya mimi ni orezo mwenyewe nikaendea gate A, kwanza nikapata maboiz wawili hapo wako ngangari wakaniambia stop..huoni hiyo stop. Alikuwa mrastaman mu ital akaniambia rudi gate D kwanza sina rada gate D iko wapi nilisonga tu nikiulizia. Ilikuwa first time ndio maana nilienda na gate A badala D ya masafara ka mimi nilijifanya source,&nbsp;(First off, I missed the right entrance gate to State House. I just went ahead an went to Gate A that is usually reserved for use by the President. I meet two men who were alert, they stopped ne asking, 'Can you not see the stop sign?' He was a rasta man, he directed me back to gate D. I had no idea where gate D was, I just kept driving asking for directions. It was my first time in State House so I did not miss the chance to act like a boss.)"&nbsp;narrated an elated Mbusii. The pint-sized radio presenter knows very well that the once in a lifetime moment doesn't come easily. &nbsp;He attributes the opportunity to his talent and hard work, quoting proverbs 18:16 which says; &nbsp;A man's gift maketh room for&nbsp;him,&nbsp;and bringeth him before great men.&nbsp;"Ni mambo ya jah works mtu nguyaz, when God blesses you no one can curse you unajua talent yako one day one time ukiifanyisha kazi itakupeleka kwa the table of kings and you will dine with them. (This is God's doing my man, When God Blesses you, o one can curse you. Your talent will one day elevate you to a position where you dine &nbsp;with kings.) " But did Mbusii make a point of airing his own grievances or probably pitch his own ideas to the commander-in-chief in the process after representing the youth?Find out in the video below;