The vexing problem of Livestock rustling has no overnight solution. This challenge problem needs a long-term well-crafted and concerted effort by all stakeholders at both County and National government. Honest Commitment is expected from the leadership at these two levels of government, all the way from village elders upwards. These two levels of government shoulder the greatest responsibility of resource allocation as provided for in the supreme law of this country- the constitution. First, resources towards the education for the young men and women at the grassroots is a vital tool that will equip these young minds who could turn out to be either rustlers or anti-rustling crusaders. Second, livestock raring supported by basic technology is a clear and sure way for value addition to farmers. In the case of pastoralists, if both national and county governments could jointly pool-resources through their respective arms and introduce the use of technology in livestock keeping would turn a new page for the pastoralists. Third, the engagement of the rural folk in livestock raring carries a risk that can only be supported by pushing the risk to a third-party in form of an Insurance. The above three key drivers, Education, Technology and Insurance, if effectively enhanced among the pastoral communities could be one of the vital movers towards dealing with livestock rustling. Education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world- Nelson Mandela. This is one of the most powerful tools that can open the world view of any community to seeing beyond one source of income as is with the pastoralists. To break the strong chain of the cyclic livestock rustling, is to inculcate the culture of education among the young pastoralists. This will help them see beyond livestock as the only way of life. An educated and learned person will see no need to risk their life after long term investment in education for low returns in engaging in livestock rustling. Education will open a floodgate of opportunities for such communities. This comes with interaction with other communities that have varied option for income generation other than what the pastoralists communities seem to be locked in. Education will open the mindset of the pastoralists to the fact that livestock rustling is a retrogressive cultural engagement. In my paper on "The Influence of Livestock Rustling on Socioeconomic Development in Marsabit and Samburu Counties, Kenya" I found out that most herders who were engaged in livestock rustling have limited or no formal learning. Therefore exposure to formal education will open up their mindset to other opportunities around and beyond them. In Texas, the United States of America, Northern Ireland, and Australia among other areas that suffered this menace, the use technology helped in dealing with this vice. The use micro-chip with the Global Positioning System (GPS) technology inserted under the skin of livestock sorted out this outdated practice. The cost of one micro-chip is less than Kshs. 100 for sure this is affordable. This cost cannot be compared to the loss of precious human life and livestock associated with the violence that continues to besiege the Kerio Valley among others livestock banditry hard-hit areas in the country. The application of such technology backed up by the traditional livestock branding could be one of a medium and lond-team approaches to help deal with livestock rustling. With such practical approaches to dealing this menace and well presented to pastoralists could make sense. This will call for organized groupings among livestock farmers, which will even make it easy for both national and County Governments to account and reach the pastoralists for assistance. Bringing together or having statistics of these formal groupings among pastoralists will be a new dawn for these groups and the country's economy. The move will help in making it possible for the livestock disease control and other approach to profitable farming. Managing stocking of livestock in dry and wet spells will be a reality. The dilemma pastoralists are in today is as a result of failure to approach livestock raring with a modern touch. It is as sure as sunrise in the tropics that there are dry and wet seasons. Therefore operating as if it is an emergency trying de-stocking animals is not helping pastoralists. In such dire situation would the opportune moment to introduce the pastoralists to animal-insurance cover and other modern livestock raring for economic benefit. The cover will also shoulder and mitigate the new trends in livestock rustling when raiders strike, they steal everything in their wake. The solution to livestock rustling is a long term investment that requires an all-inclusive approach that requires patience and commitment from all of us. The writer Dr. Christopher S. Khisa (PhD) is a Communications, Peace and Conflict Scholar.