A man, who was introduced as a witch doctor who would protect Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi's votes, has denied being one.James Mugambi said his alias Kaana ka Njoka (snakelet) is a name he assumed socially through his friendship with Aburi - known as the 'big snake'.The 39-year-old told the Star - after the witchcraft claims backfired - that he regretted statements made at Kiraitu's home during the weekend meeting."This was a misunderstood joke. I'm just a comedian who tickles people in public rallies. My family line has never been engaged in witchcraft," he said.This was after church leaders kicked him out of all religious fellowships saying the declaration did not only shame them but subjected them to ridicule.[VIDEO] Meru witch doctor will guard Kiraitu's votes in August poll - AburiIn this regard, Harrison Anamba of Mikinduri Full Gospel Church gave witch doctors in the county 14 days to denounce their cult and be saved."If they don&rsquo;t come out to confess, they will die. We want them to be saved and turn to God so that we don't bring a curse upon our nation," Anamba said.The church leaders alleged that Mugambi inherited charms from his late father Peter Baruungu, popularly known as Njoka - a dreaded village witch.They further claimed that the man, who hails from Ngongoaka village, travelled to Nigeria through Aburi's support to "acquire more magical powers".The clergy added that the self-proclaimed witch doctor gave the Tigania East legislator a fly whisk which he brandishes at public rallies."None of our followers will stand with a leader who uses witchcraft to lure us. We are fully armed with our spiritual armor," Anamba said.Mugambi said on Wednesday that he is a God-fearing person who cannot use witchcraft against the people."The Bible says no weapon formed against the people of God will prosper. You can't use witchcraft against the people of God," he said."I am not a witch doctor. Even if I said my pockets were full of charms...that was money...I only said so to cheer up the crowd."Those who were at the venue were happy but it later turned out to be offensive. I plead with Kiraitu to understand that we did not mean any harm," he said.He also asked any aggrieved people to engage him so they can call the Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders to administer the traditional 'kithiri' oath."I will offer a he-goat for the cleansing ceremony to affirm that I am not a witch doctor," Mugambi said, further apologising to Kiraitu and Aburi's supporters."Let us vote for the two leaders because they are clean. We were just pulling a prank to entertain the crowd," he said.In his reaction to the incident, Kiraitu said he is a staunch Christian who believes in the values and teachings of the Bible."I cannot and will never wish to be associated with black magic. I urge my supporters to ignore the reports being hyped in the media," he said.Aburi said: "We were joking. I don't understand why people took the mater so seriously."Read: Probe Kiraitu for 'using witchcraft to win' August polls, Munya tells IEBC