In Things Fall Apart, Okonkwo is ruled by fear, the fear of failure or of being thought weak. This flaw leads him to engage in fatal behaviour or actions that eventually and tragically end in his abominable death. Raila Amolo Odinga has the makings of characters in Greek and Shakespearean tragedies and as such he may bring tragedy to the National Super Alliance, or NASA. The character who ends in tragedy is first and foremost an overpowering, over-domineering man with many admirable qualities. However, some overriding flaw or set of flaws negates all that is positive and thus the tragedy. The theory of the fatal flaw is often applied to tragedy, including Shakespeare&rsquo;s 10 tragedies (out of an output of 37 plays). As drama scholar Graham Holderness has observed, &ldquo;The tragic hero is an exemplary individual admired by all, by the community of the drama and by the audience alike; but he is cursed with an Achilles&rsquo; Heel, a disabling imperfection or weakness of character which leads him directly towards some tragic experience. &ldquo;. . . The existence of the flaw prevents him from rising to the level of a superman with whom we could never identify. &ldquo;Applied to Shakespeare&rsquo;s tragedies, this neat formulation offers a key for interpreting each tragedy in terms of the hero&rsquo;s particular shortcoming: Othello&rsquo;s &lsquo;jealousy&rsquo;, Hamlet&rsquo;s &lsquo;indecisiveness&rsquo;, Macbeth&rsquo;s &lsquo;ambition&rsquo;, Antony&rsquo;s &lsquo;irresponsibility&rsquo;. Raila&rsquo;s particular fatal flaw or shortcoming is &lsquo;heedlessness&rsquo;. The man simply does not retain good advice.One cannot gainsay the star role that Raila will play in NASA. He will be the engine of NASA as he is the only one with the muscle to face President Uhuru Kenyatta. His experience, networks, financial might and political genius make him the de facto leader of NASA. Add to this the fact that he is a magnet for teeming and excited crowds. Without Raila, NASA will not draw the surging crowds. Yet it is precisely because of these strengths that Raila may bring tragedy to NASA. First, his strong overbearing presence, which he seems to enjoy intensely, will have the negative effect of alienating his colleagues who may feel reduced to flower girls, and this relegation could make them gang up to fight him, thus breaking NASA in its infancy. It is difficult to imagine Raila playing &lsquo;small&rsquo; just to put his colleagues at ease. This flower-girl feeling is beginning to express itself in matters of protocol whenever they address a public gathering. The most notable was during the meeting that was meant to launch NASA at the Bomas of Kenya and the recent Bomet rally. In both of these, the principals were at pains trying to decide who among them would speak last, a sign of seniority. In Bomet, Mudavadi was made to speak last in what Kalonzo described as the &lsquo;inconsequential&rsquo; matter of protocol: Kalonzo may soon taste the consequentiality of protocol, when he takes the podium only to find himself addressing an empty stadium, the public having left immediately after listening to &lsquo;Baba&rsquo; when the latter is made to speak first. This seemingly small inconsequential matter of protocol may serve to breed deep resentment and rebellion, which may spell doom for NASA. Raila also shares this domineering character with his core supporters from Nyanza. Just as Raila makes his colleagues, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang&rsquo;ula feel &lsquo;small&rsquo;, so too do his Luo supporters dominate access to Raila and edge out others. Raila&rsquo;s people will even irritate other NASA followers by being inordinately many, noisy and generally a nuisance. This may have the net impact of producing a section of NASA followers who could urge their leaders to seek options out of the Alliance. In 1991, this kind of nuisance presence at Agip House, Nairobi, the headquarters of the original Ford, served to split an Opposition that was poised to remove President Daniel arap Moi and Kanu from power. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga was the party leader. James Orengo and Paul Muite were his deputies but Odinga had a soft sport for Orengo as the heir apparent. This annoyed Muite, leading to a split that saw both Orengo and Muite run for President separately in 1997, four years after Odinga Snr&rsquo;s death. The foregoing serves to illustrate that Raila&rsquo;s main strength, which should be an asset to NASA, may actually be counter-productive. Indeed, this negative strength may actually bring tragedy rather than the presidency. On top of the above, Raila also has certain clear flaws which if not well managed will surely bring harm to NASA. These flaws are, unfortunately for NASA, so part of Raila&rsquo;s persona that NASA may have to take them as part of the package that is Raila, the engine of the Alliance. Top on the list of these flaws is Raila&rsquo;s penchant for complaint, especially on election rigging, which has become predictable, monotonous, boring, and the surest sign of his advancing years. It may have the effect of turning away some would-be NASA voters who may feel the man has lost it anyway. But perhaps the greatest damage from this incessant rigging chorus is the impetus it gives those who hold the view that Raila is conditioned to lose. Raila&rsquo;s continual complaint about rigging therefore emboldens those who argue that NASA is doomed to lose if Raila carries the Alliance flag. And such people, especially from Mudavadi and Kalonzo's quarters, are becoming more numerous by the day and they may push these two to a point where NASA disintegrates. Raila is a man who loves attention and is easily excitable. The child in Raila maybe a good thing in other areas, but it is certainly a liability in politics. This side of Raila is seen in the way in which he and some of his close associates celebrate even the smallest of victories. A case in point is when the Cord demos forced the government to accept dialogue via the parliamentary select committee on the IEBC, a bipartisan body. Raila and his people beat their chests for forcing the government into concession action and when they finally had the ill-fated electoral law enacted and assented to, they publicly and almost childishly boasted of their total victory, especially in having the IEBC commissioners sent home. Subsequent events have shown they celebrated too early. Another case of child-like and premature exultation is readily available when you consider how Raila has been summoned to State House by President Kenyatta in what was clearly political strategy by the latter whenever he wanted to defuse tensions created by Cord. With typical excitement, for example, Raila rushed from a function in Narok to meet Uhuru at State House. Raila gave the President a life-line as this meeting defused tension that was building up in a stand-off between Raila and Uhuru when the Opposition was heading to Uhuru Park to hold a parallel Madaraka Day rally as the President presided over the official National Day celebrations at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru, with full diplomatic and military honours. This rally was going to take place at a time the country was witnessing mass action aimed at the removal of the discredited, and now disbanded, Issack Hassan-led team of commissioners at the IEBC. The reaction and the threats from the Interior ministry and the police had created tension. Raila&rsquo;s rush to meet the President and the national government&rsquo;s subsequent goodwill that allowed the Opposition to hold their rally eased the tension. Uhuru had scored big. Raila had lost big. It is doubtful that Raila would have made this juvenile move if he had consulted. And this is one department where Raila scores lowest: His failure to consult. And it will hurt NASA the most. Raila does not listen to advice and when he does he soon ignores it and moves on to his next enthusiasm. It is said that had Raila listened to advice, he would have fared better in the 2013 presidential race. He ignored advice on sending polling agents to the Mount Kenya region and he must regret this to this day. This is because if he had done so perhaps the top-up votes that ensured a first round victory for President Uhuru would not have been achieved as easily as lawyer Kethi Kilonzo of Africog demonstrated in the presidential appeal lodged by Raila in the Supreme Court in 2013. And then, as is the case now, Raila remains a one-man show such that the so-called secretariat outfits are places where people spend the day taking tea and feeling important by mere association with Baba. As long ago as back in 1996, a Ford Kenya party national delegates&rsquo; conference was to be held at the Thika Municipal Stadium to decide on the matter of the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga&rsquo;s succession in the organization. Archbishop Manasses Kuria had been asked to preside and accepted the task. Raila&rsquo;s delegates shouted down the clergyman and he swiftly left the venue. The police moved in and tear-gassed Raila&rsquo;s supporters. Crude weapons were produced and Raila&rsquo;s bodyguards threw him to the ground and shielded him behind the seats. Raila is a turbulent personality, loved and hated in equal measure. His fatal flaws and turbulence are factors that NASA will have to be extra careful about or the Super Alliance will never launch and go into meaningful orbit.