Just because you are not her tribe, there is no need to dislike and hate on Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed. But then, I realised some people were opposed to Mohamed's candidacy for the African Union Commission because she was proposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Now that she lost, it is incumbent upon us to reflect given that we are also heading towards the general election. Those who supported Mohamed would say they backed her because it is a national duty and may be because she is the most qualified for that position. I mean, we are talking of being experienced, having been in diplomacy at the highest levels.However, when Chad won, it become apparent that some of the factors that contributed to this failure were that just like our politics, the AU is simply political and the politics at play rotated around gender. This is against the background that the former chairperson was a woman and therefore, the incoming ought to have been a man. Secondly, there was the tussle between the Anglophone and the Francophone countries visibility. Mohamed is from an Anglophone region as was Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. It was time, some thought, the Francophones took over. And finally, other countries might have said #AUSiYaMamaYenu as the outgoing deputy chairperson for the past 8 years Erastus Mwencha was also a Kenyan and so, it was time for other countries to serve.Of course there were the others who said the failure of Mohamed is symbolic to how Jubilee will fall in August elections. Now this is where I ask, are we going to commit the ultimate sin again?This sin is not voting in the right candidate based on their manifesto but because of the party they represent. Dear voters, we are always the ones crying after every election, going through the consequences of poor leadership, especially when we are caught up by our tribal affiliations. Do we ever stop to ask ourselves, what has the incumbent done during this or her term or what is this youthful aspirant&rsquo;s vision for my constituency?Of course may are times we blame the media for live coverage of some charged political rallies where the content of the speeches are deemed negative, hosting several talk shows and advertisements are that are considered as incitement to violence and not forgetting the failure by the media to capture issue-based politics but instead giving us sound bites and satirical analysis of the week which leaves out what really the leader stands for.It is time we can adopted a Do It Yourself concept by making use of social media, where we can do our own civic education. Take for example, how many of us know the role of an MCA , an MP or a senator, all who represent our interests? What policies have they deliberated with an aim of influencing future policy on climate change, pollution, unemployment and how we can leverage on international trade, fighting radicalisation and creating employment among our youths? The writer is a Value engineer, YALI Fellow and a Mavoko MP hopeful &lt;justina4mavoko@gmail.com&gt; @justinawamae