Recently, Kenyans woke up to billboards carrying a picture of Auditor General Edward Ouko captioned: Anatomy of Corruption. They were advertising a soon-to-be published edition called Big Issue. The ensuing publication is a thorough hit-job on Ouko, whose public standing remains solid and his reputation golden.Big Issue is a copy cat approach emulated from the Big Issue of London, on whose website a KQ advert currently runs. Mercenaries are hard at work. The Controller of Budget seems to have been silenced after out-of-step revelations of Eurobond proceeds into the Consolidated Fund, But Ouko has continued stoically to serve Kenyans with frank and fair assessments of the mismanagement, wastage and looting currently going on. Thus, there are forces high up in government that desperately want him out of the way.In today&rsquo;s information-rich world, it is all about perceptions, reality and facts. Kenyans who saw these billboards did not see a crook. They looked and said, 'aaah this is the guy who is unraveling ploys and revealing bad things. Now they are working on him mercilessly.' I mean, even Kamlesh Pattni, who stole money and put up a platinum five-star hotel in the middle of town never ended up on a billboard. Nor did Anne Waiguru of the Sh25 billion budget Devolution ministry and the infamous NYS pesa kwa gunia (money in sacks)!One of the most disturbing and unacceptable perceptions that is threatening to tear Kenya apart and has led to intellectual discussions around &lsquo;divorce&rsquo; is the fact that you can abstain from eating, do a good job, but if you are from the &lsquo;wrong&rsquo; tribe then you must be punished and sacrificed to the gods! If that is not anarchy, I wonder what is.I met and worked with Eddy, as he is commonly called in professional circles, when I together with UoN and Bureau of Statistics began to develop a sample frame for data collection all over Kenya regarding the Social Economic Audit of the Constitution as requested by Parliament.I found him to be a thorough, disciplined, fair and just leader. Not the kind of character who knows how to steal and eat. He serves on the boards of organisations such as the International Anti-Corruption Academy and is a member of both regional and international Supreme Audit Institutions. While accompanying him to a workshop on Social Accountability Audit sponsored by the World Bank, I noticed that he commands a lot of respect from the Bank, as they call it, and in financial and donor circles.It was therefore no surprise to me that the file sent to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions was thin on facts and in essence found nothing on the honourable auditor. But what is disturbing are revelations from Keriako Tobiko that there was extreme pressure from an unseen hand to find something and prosecute.This is an overt attempt at overthrowing the Constitution and setting up independent institutions to fight, undermine and destroy one another. And now a petition from a little-known NGO, by Nkaari (and Matsanga), is seeking to use Parliament to participate in an extrajudicial attack on an innocent independent constitutional office in broad daylight.Parliament must know that it cannot go on a wild goose chase, seeking to find something, anything, where there is nothing. The Office of the DPP is the legal, constitutional, competent authority mandated to evaluate findings of an investigation and to proceed to court in pursuit of justice.You cannot take the findings of the highest competent prosecutor in the land, trash them and establish your own parallel process and without any basis, in essence turning Parliament into a open-air market and a mob justice public square. This is extreme gangsterism. I urge all elected leaders to think beyond their noses and to see far ahead.At any rate, we are six months to a general election. Is this the time to make enemies or friends? I have often loudly asked, who advises President Uhuru and/or is there a cartel he has allowed to misadvise and take advantage of him. If parliament cannot be persuaded to be upright and do the right thing, then let it find the courage and the temerity to disband the offices of the Auditor General and DPP immediately.The writer is a Geo political/social commentator and strategist. He is also the founder/Director of ONE, a lobby group based in Nairobi.