Is Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua taking credit for projects he did not undertake? Yesterday, he raised eyebrows when he posted a picture of himself inspecting the Tala-Oldonyo Sabuk road in Matungulu subcounty. He attributed the project to himself, stating "under the Maendeleo Chap Chap work formula, Machakos county has more roadworks than any other county in Kenya". The problem is that this road is a project of the national government, under the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra), whose construction was recently launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Pundits wonder if the good governor is short of reelection campaign issues to sell.*****THE former Okoa Kenya secretariat, expected to take over NASA activities, should consider putting their washrooms in order. The restrooms have broken facilities and are indescribably dirty. Corridors wonders how visitors (mostly politicians) survive even a minute in the dilapidated facility. Remember some of the politicians are very proud in public, others hold elevated offices and a good number are very rich. The habit of neglecting washrooms seems to have been replicated from Orange House, the ODM headquarters. However, Orange House was improved after countless complaints.*****A gang of rowdy youths always spend time outside Orange House to extort money from politicians on days the leading opposition party has activities at its headquarters. They seem to have access to the party and politicians' diary: They know the individuals who are visiting the party headquarters and when. And they are uncontrollable. The strong young men demand cash from politicians and, as Corridors has confirmed, also from the staff at Orange House. Many people have reported criminal incidents. The same behaviour yesterday was much in evidence at the Okoa Kenya offices. Corridors wonders why the party's top brass do not act on it. Yesterday, Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero's car was stoned &ndash; for unknown reasons.*****Junior police officers in the city are on a go-slow and want Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to intervene. They claim that crooked seniors are stopping their transfers to the county headquarters. They claimed that though the county commander is a reasonable man, he has consistently been misadvised by a cartel of senior officers within Nairobi Area who want to instill fear and demoralise junior officers. The officers affected are now pleading with and appealing to the IG to intervene and order the release of their transfer letters - and possibly give them audience.