Albert Einstein had a thing or two to say about imagination. In his words, &ldquo;Imagination is more important than knowledge.&rdquo; He also went on to add: &ldquo;Logic will get you from point A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere.&rdquo;Albert Einstein was fortunate not to have been born in Kenya, for if he had, he would have caught, much in the same way one catches a cold, this disdain Kenyan society has for imagination. He would therefore not have gone on to receive the Nobel Prize in Physics. Unlike Einstein and other great minds, Kenyans don&rsquo;t like imagination. We are practical people, who by and large believe that this ability to form images in the mind, build castles in the sky, is something idlers and fiction writers do, but not something serious people engage in. Our contempt for imagination is complete, and evident. On many a Nairobi street, especially in the city centre, you will come across what I call copy-paste dukas (stalls) running down the entire length of the street, each one selling the exact same thing or offering the exact same service as the stall next to it. If it&rsquo;s phones for sale, it&rsquo;s phones for sale at every stall on the street. If it&rsquo;s photocopying services, "photocopy hapa" is the sign at every stall. As a society, from top to the bottom, we stick to what&rsquo;s possible, what&rsquo;s been done before, and we voice this mindset with the common refrain: &lsquo;That&rsquo;s the way things are&hellip;&rsquo; And yet, with imagination, impossible things do happen. And when they do, they create new realities around them. Examples of this power that is imagination are scattered throughout human history. Early civilisations imagined grand structures and went ahead to build them. The pyramids of Egypt, for instance, must have taken a lot of imagination to construct, considering that at the time, there were no earth movers, heavy duty trucks and cranes. In much more recent times we have Las Vegas, which transformed from a dusty desert town with a population of 8,422 in 1940, into what is now a metropolitan region that is home to more than 2 million people, according to a 2013 estimate. Famous for its extravagant casinos and resorts, Las Vegas recorded 42 million visitors in 2015. That&rsquo;s paying tourists, which just goes to show that with imagination, desert dust can turn into gold. And then there&rsquo;s Israel, a country that was created in 1948, and where the settlers arrived to find a hostile reception from the neighbours and land that was, in a word, inhospitable: 60 per cent desert and 40 per cent arid. The settlers, though, did not quibble and fret about what was on the ground. Nor did they whinge about how one could do nothing with barren lands. They imagined different instead. Today, Israel has such an expansive and efficient infrastructure of water supply and conservation &mdash; 80 per cent waste water recycled, seawater desalinated, rivers rehabilitated and aquifers drilled responsibly &mdash; that the country can function without rain. Just think, a Kenya that suffers no losses due to drought. A Nairobi with smooth traffic flows, ease of getting around, and no crime. A country that is better for everyone, with equal opportunities for all. It&rsquo;s not impossible, but there is a catch: "You can&rsquo;t do it unless you imagine it."&mdash; George Lucas