Tenants in some commercial buildings have accused City Hall of charging them individually for fire licences, already purchased by their landlords.The tenants, mostly on Mama Ngina Street, said the county has introduced a Sh4,500 fire licence fee. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t understand why we are being told to pay for a fire licence for an office. We don&rsquo;t cook anything here,&rdquo; Vedic House tenant Stans Kariuki said.He said the building has been certified compliant by county fire inspection officers. &ldquo;The law is very clear, when the county wants to increase or introduce new levies, there must be public participation and this must be captured in law,&rdquo; Kariuki said.A copy of fire clearance certificate of Vedic House seen by the Star shows the building was issued with the document on February 2, after the owner paid Sh14,000. Vedic House has 70 tenants, meaning they are asked to remit Sh315,000 annually.Tenants said the county has declined to renew business permits for those who do not pay the new levy.Finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo said all premises, including offices, are required to pay the fee, whether or not the building is compliant. &ldquo;Take a scenario where you have fire extinguishers on the ground floor only and fire breaks on the 16th floor. What happens?&rdquo; he asked.&ldquo;But tenants should not pay for this certificate if they do not have basic firefighting equipment like fire extinguishers. Our officers must inspect the offices to ensure they have the equipment.&rdquo; Tenants of Corner House, Queens Way, Vedic House, Jubilee Insurance Plaza and 20th Century have complained about the &ldquo;illegal&rdquo; fee. Businesswoman Carol Mburu said despite having an original copy of the fire compliance certificate from the landlord, the county officers refused to renew her business licence.&ldquo;They told me that I might have forged the certificate. They asked me to go back with a fire inspection certificate receipt to show the certificate was genuine,&rdquo; she said.The county&rsquo;s 2015 Finance Act provides for direct charges to the tenants if the buildings they occupy are not certified by the county as compliant.Tenants of commercial and industrial premises, including offices, are required to pay Sh4,500 if the buildings are not certified. Premises with highly inflammable materials pay Sh12,000 for the certificate.Another tenant said, &ldquo;I paid the money because I badly needed a licence to apply for a tender.&rdquo;