The beaming faces of elders as they crowned Right Honorable Prime Minister Raila Odinga at Meibeki area of Uasin Gishu county on November 8th spoke volumes of the changing political trends in the backyard of Deputy President William Ruto.Three years ago, it was unimaginable for the Opposition maestro to even make a stopover in this land thanks to the politics of bigotry and lies hawked by the political class resident in the region.The dirt has fallen off the people&rsquo;s eyes. They now can see clear. Raila attracted a major crowd in one of Jubilee&rsquo;s strongholds. In fact it is a few kilometres away from the DP&rsquo;s home in Sugoi where the voters are no longer at ease.A Kalenjin blessing is a huge ritual. Preparations for making one the community&rsquo;s elder, calls for meticulous preparations.It takes months before the actual day. The event does not just happen. It is not a child&rsquo;s play.When elders of the caliber of those old men who gathered around the son of Jaramogi as they put a traditional crown on his head decide to embrace a man so ostracized by the community&rsquo;s leaders so much that he was declared persona non grata, a strong message is being sent out: That the people are dissatisfied with the present political arrangement and are scouting for an alternative political partnership.Arap Mibei has always been on their mind but they were constantly lied to that he was behind the DP&rsquo;s International Criminal Court&rsquo;s tribulations. When a mind is poisoned, it does not die as long as the soul is still intact. The soul of Rift Valley is whole. You can always rearrange the mind and that is what the people are doing.In 2007, Raila held sway in the region. He was fully accepted into the Kalenjin community and nicknamed &ldquo;Arap Mibei (The son of the waters). He won the 2007 polls but his victory was blatantly stolen in broad daylight. During the infamous government of national unity procured after the country went berserk following the disputed election results, Raila appointed William Ruto the Minister for Agriculture. Shortly after, a scandal relating to maize broke out in the ministry and Raila showed Ruto the door. The ICC debacle and Ruto&rsquo;s sacking marked a 360 degrees turnaround in the region with the residents diving into an acrimonious divorce with their adopted son Arap Mibei.Raila&rsquo;s visit to Uasin Gishu county was meant to taste ruffled political waters. He came out smiling and full of hope that the region is now receptive to him unlike 2013. The region had high expectations on Jubilee coalition but all that have come crushing down like the wall of Jericho.Although the Eldoret reception exceeded his expectations, it won&rsquo;t be easy for Raila to win a considerable section of votes if he runs for the presidency next year unless he draws up a bold strategy that will see him reclaim his lost votes. This will not be rocked science. He only has to convince the residents to vote him for president and elect their other leaders the way they want.Raila&rsquo;s sojourn in the region is advantaged because the region is no longer under the spell of one man as it was in 2013.Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi are working against the DP. This implies that anyone who is a foe of the DP is automatically their ally and Raila is right in the middle of this calculation.Although Rutto and Gideon have not come out in support of Raila, the writing on the wall could tilt the coin. The duo has publically displayed their utter disdain for Ruto who is joined on the hip with equally embattled President uhuru Kenyatta.Recently, Gideon advised the residents to remove Jubilee from power. Will he turn back and swallow his words? Slim chance. Rutto and Gideon could therefore work together to win Raila back the people that slipped through his fingers thanks to lies marketed as truths which the voters swallowed hook and sinker.