Kenya Sevens fly-half Augustine Lugonzo has been passed fit for the Sydney Sevens slated for tomorrow at Allianz Arena.There were doubts that Lugonzo may miss the tournament after suffering a head injury during the match against Australia in the bowl final, where Kenya won 19-17.Team manager Eric Ogweno said Lugonzo passed a concussion test earlier in the week and is raring to go for the fourth leg of the circuit. &ldquo;We assessed him earlier this week and he took part in some contact sessions. He is okay and raring to go for the tournament,&rdquo; added Ogweno.Lugonzo is yet to replicate the form that saw him dazzle three years ago at the Gold Coast Sevens in Australia after a succession of knee and ankle injuries hampered him in the past two seasons.Kenya also played a build-up match against Olympic Sevens champions Fiji, which they used top gauge their defensive system and communication. &ldquo; The game was meant to assess our patterns of play in both defence and attack and see how we can correct the mistakes which we saw last week in Wellington,&rdquo; added Ogweno. &ldquo;We have to three big games against England, South Africa and Japan and we must minimise on our mistakes and execute well in both attack and defence if we are to do well,&rdquo; he added.Ogweno said warm weather conditions were ideal for the team in Sydney and hope for a good response from the boys. &ldquo;The boys know they would have done better in Wellington and so they must raise their game and intensity on Day One in order to qualify for the Main Cup quarter-finals,&rdquo; he quipped.Kenya are ranked 10th with 25 points from three tournaments played so far in this campaign. Elsewhere, Resolution Kisii RFC will face Thika RFC tomorrow in the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) championship hoping to remain top of the standings.Kisii top the table with 32 points followed by former Kenya Cup outfit Catholic Monks while USIU are third with 25 points. Kisii have, however, played one more game than both Catholic Monks and USIU.Yesterday, Kisii RFC coach Eric Bosire admitted that the game against ninth-placed Thika will be tricky and tough. &ldquo;We are dealing with a team we have never played before. It is difficult playing a team you don&rsquo;t know but we have prepared and trained well. It is a former Kenya Cup side so we don&rsquo;t expect an easy game,&rdquo; said Bosire.Kisii welcome back scrum-half Kevin Ogao and flanker Mike Juma, who missed last weekend&rsquo;s 14-8 win over Kisumu RFC at Mamboleo Agricultural Society of Kenya grounds in Kisumu. Catholic Monks entertain Moi University&rsquo;s Arsonists at the Catholic University of East Africa grounds in Karen seeking to leapfrog Kisii while sixth-placed Kisumu RFC travel to Nairobi to tackle last-placed Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Kisumu secretary Fredrick Maube said he hopes the club gets back to winning ways. Fourth-placed South Coast Pirates, fresh from their 20-11 win over Mombasa last weekend, host University of Eldoret&rsquo;s Trojans.However, it&rsquo;s unclear if the students will travel due to the ongoing lecturers&rsquo; strike having also missed their game against Kisumu.