Raymond Ochieng will fight Joey Abel for the Minnesota State heavyweight title on February 25 in a match that will be televised live on OBS Sports.Ochieng also known as King Kong has a record of 26 wins, 20 loses and 3 draws. Ochieng&rsquo;s contest will be staged at the Blaine Sports Centre on Sports Expo building in Minnesota and will also feature a match between Ramon Nicholas and Darnell Boone, dubbed &lsquo;The Return of the Wolfman&rsquo;. The former Kenyan heavyweight contender, who now live in the US, believes victory in the title contest will open windows of opportunity for other gingantic contests. Asked about his opponent and prospects for the fight, &lsquo;King Kong&rsquo; said: &ldquo;Yeah! my opponent is a seasoned veteran boxer and so I really have to approach the match cautiously but I am optimistic it&rsquo;s a great opportunity for me and it could bring me to the top 20 world ratings.&rdquo;Ochieng trains at the Minneapolis UpperCut Gym under the tutelage if couch Ray Nelson and Seko Tonga from Tanzania as strength and conditioning trainer.Ochieng regrets having never having laid his hands on the coveted Kenyan heavyweight title which his longstanding opponent, Tom Okusi clung onto for a lengthy period without being compelled defend it.He also believes the missed opportunity in Kenya is a blessing in disguise, adding: &ldquo;The systems in America are much better and there is a lot of vetting before fights. &ldquo;They never gave me a chance; you know I should have been given a shot at the heavyweight title. I beat the strong man Okusi yet promoters still pretended not to know. I really miss the Kenyan boxing fans and would love to fight there soon. We know who the top heavyweight in Kenya is yet they gave people who have never won a single fight internationally the opportunity.&rdquo; Ochieng racked up a record of 169 wins with 11 loses in his career as an amateur. He turned professional on December 12, 2002, beating fellow d&eacute;butante Luke Okeno by knockout in the second round. He fought Vladimir Lazebnik on March 11, 2006 but lost by technical knockout in the fifth round.Ochieng then fought Konstantin Airich, losing in the second round by knockout on September 21, 2007 before taking on Timo Hoffmann on October 10, 2008 and losing in the fourth round, again by knockout. Ochieng was knocked to the canvas once in the second round and twice in the fourth round before the referee stopped the fight.Ochieng faced Andrzej Wawrzyk on May 9, 2009 and lost in the fifth round by technical knockout. In this fight, he was down twice in the fourth round and once in the fifth round while having a point deducted before the referee stopped the fight. He then went on to beat James Omollo by technical knockout in the fourth round on August 29, 2009.