CORRIDORS has it that a section of politicians from Ukambani is up in arms with the choice of senior officials sent to the region by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission ahead of the August poll. The politicians are presently working on a petition that will be forwarded to Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati (pictured) where, among other issues, they want to raise are allegations that an outsider is using his spouse at the commission to ensure his preferred officers are sent where he wants to oversee election matters in the region. IT may be a mountain to climb for Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria in his bid for reelection. Word has it that, in a bizarre twist to seal Kuria&rsquo;s political on August 8, the widow of his predecessor Joseph Ngugi has appointed another former area legislator to lead her campaign. It is said Joyce Ngugi, keen at unseating Kuria, has picked former MP Moses Mwihia, who surprised Central when he defeated Uhuru Kenyatta in 1997 during his maiden entry into elective politics. Pundits are keen to see if Mwihia will perform a repeat of his giant-felling strategies against Kuria, who is seen as one of Jubilee&rsquo;s leading lights in the Mount Kenya region. WORD has it that a governor and a former parastatal boss from Eastern are facing off in what is believed to be a titanic battle for the governor seat. Our mole tells Corridors that the governor, who vied on the ODM ticket in 2013, is now targetting the Jubilee ticket, despite his rival being assured of support by their clan. To ensure both candidates are on the safe side of getting the ticket for a clear win on August 8, it is said they have been paying separate courtesy calls on senior Jubilee politicians&rsquo; offices seeking approval. It is just a matter of time before the time bomb explodes. CORRIDORS has it that ODM is quietly accepting nomination papers from aspirants, despite the exercise having come to a closure two months ago. Those in the know say the party is not blocking anyone as long as an aspirant has ready cash which is deposited in the party&rsquo;s account and a slip attached to the application forms. Those vying for President were to pay a Sh1 million application fee, governors Sh500,000, senators and MPs Sh250,000 and MCAs Sh25,000, with those classified under Interest Groups paying only half of the specified amounts for all the positions.