MCAs have asked the anti-graft agency to investigate City Hall for hiring a Sh16 million road grader instead of spending Sh610,000 to repair a grounded one.&ldquo;Someone must be benefitting from the hiring of these machines. What is the priority and why is public money being spent this way?&rdquo; Kahawa West MCA Ngaruiya Chege said.Transport chief officer Michael Ngare last week told the MCAs that the county has three graders &mdash; one is broken, the other two have been withheld by the supplier over nonpayment of Sh46 million. &ldquo;One has been grounded due to lack of tyres,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Sh610,000 will be used to repair the stalled grader, which requires six tyres.&rdquo; Ngare did not explain why the city leased instead of repaired equipment.He was responding to Chege&rsquo;s question about the number of graders the county owns and, if any were grounded. Ngaruiya said he was disturbed by the poor state of roads.They spoke in the assembly chambers. Ngaruiya faulted the county for spending huge sums of money in hiring machines instead of repairing the one it has and buying more.&ldquo;A county like Kiambu has 70 graders and in Murang&rsquo;a, every ward has the machine. Why not Nairobi? That is why our roads are pathetic,&rdquo; he said. Residents have complained about the sorry state of the capital&rsquo;s roads. On Wednesday, residents of Tassia estate in Embakasi protested against delayed road construction.A report by the assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee showed 181 infrastructure projects in 85 wards, worth Sh1.3 billion, have stalled since 2013. The report on the Ward Development Fund was released a year ago.At a forum in October, officials were taken to task by residents over stalled projects, despite allocations.&ldquo;Most contractors doing business with the county have terminated their contracts over nonpayment. They can&rsquo;t stretch more while the county fails to honour their deal,&rdquo; public works director Frederick Karanja said.