In feudal Europe, I told a friend who argued Kenya is a democracy, there used to be kings and queens, princes, dukes and earls, collectively known as Nobles. At the bottom of this hierarchy were ordinary working people, peasants mostly, and they were considered people of the lower orders. The Nobles were the rulers and all things, the land, the lakes, the rivers and the mountains, belonged to them. Peasants owned nothing. The Nobles however allowed the peasants to live on the land and use it for farming, and in exchange for being granted permission to be tenants, what was expected from the peasants was that they show the Nobles respect, provide labour when the Nobles needed it, and give a share to the Nobles, the best share of what they produced from the land.And so it was that as the peasants developed scoliosis from backbreaking labour, the Nobles led lavish lives behind their high castle walls, often holding grand balls where there was food aplenty, food that had come from the toil and the sweat of the peasants. Peasants weren&rsquo;t entitled to any respect, thus they were treated like dirt. It was not unusual, for example, for peasants to be walking on a road, only for there to be a call announcing the approach of a Noble, which meant the peasants had to scamper and scurry out of the road. At the very least to avoid getting trampled by the dust-rousing gilded carriage carrying the Noble, and the knights riding alongside bearing the Noble&rsquo;s banners. This went on for centuries, until one day, throats scratchy and eyes watering from all the dust, the peasants said enough was enough. Parallels to today&rsquo;s Kenya? The gilded carriage then is the glimmering government SUV today, complete with knights (police escort), Noble&rsquo;s banners (government or county flag), and a call for those of the lower orders to get out of the way (motorcade sirens).As for the lavish opulence enjoyed by the political class, tax pays for that, which, just like it was for the peasants, is a share of what you produce.Yes we vote, and yes, and can by and large speak freely, for all the good that does, but is ours really democracy as Abraham Lincoln described it, a government &ldquo;of the people, by the people, and for the people&rdquo;? You need not be a scholar to see that actually, ours is a democracy at half-mast.