Ulinzi Stars&rsquo; coach Benjamin Nyangweso believes the team can overturn the 0-1 deficit against Al Hilal Benghazi in the CAF Confederations Cup preliminary round return leg on Saturday in Nairobi. The team has been training in Nairobi ahead of the return tie and coach Nyangweso is optimistic they can rise to the occasion on Saturday.&ldquo;It is not an easy match because they are a very tactical team. But if we work hard and minimise on our mistakes, it is a result we can overturn. The players are working hard in training and hopefully, we will be at our best,&rdquo; Nyangweso said.Inspite of the result of the first leg, Nyangweso was pleased with the performance though he admitted that the result was not what was required.&ldquo;They scored when my defenders stood back, thinking the referee would be calling for an offside but he didn&rsquo;t. However, we played well and we had chances which we failed to utilise. This is one of the things we are looking at for the return leg. We should use our chances,&rdquo; the coach said.The soldiers will receive a boost as striker John Makwata may feature in the return leg against the Libyan outfit after he failed to travel for the opener owing to unavailability of his traveling documents. The match will be played at Kasarani on Saturday at 3pm.Meanwhile, Bandari coach Paul Nkata says he is not worried with the team&rsquo;s mixed results in the pre-season friendlies as the players were fast getting into shape ahead of the SportsPesa Premier League kick-off.The coach was speaking after Bandari posted mixed results in their tour of Taita Taveta County, where they beat Wundanyi Combined 1-0 but went down 0-2 to Mwatate at the same venue. Nkata said the matches were key for him as he seeks to identify the players who will do duty for the club in the 2017 season.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s never about winning matches but identifying the team&rsquo;s weak and strong points during this period,&rdquo; he added. According to the coach, players&rsquo; fitness is now at the desired level while the tactical element is being worked on as the team prepare for the league.Club&rsquo;s secretary Edward Oduor said the team was taking full advantage of the delayed league kick-off to put their house in order and expressed optimism that they will achieve their targets. &ldquo;We have lined up other friendly matches in Malindi this weekend as we continue to fine tune. I believe all will be well as we prepare for the kick off,&rdquo; Oduor said.He said all the players save for Jacob Kelly and Enock Agwanda, were fully fit but expressed optimism that it was just a matter of time before duo who started their training a bit late are ready. Bandari had earlier on lost 0-1 and 1-2 in friendly matches against Msambweni Combined and Modern Coast Rangers.