Vihiga United have found a path into this season&rsquo;s SportPesa Premier League alongside KCB after they met the stringent Football Kenya Federation club licensing requirements for KPL clubs.The two clubs despite finishing fifth and sixth in the National Super League were beneficiaries of the long desired plan by the federation to have an 18-team league after Sofapaka and Muhoroni Youth failed to meet the mandatory financial and legal obligations to get the license.&ldquo;We gave the two clubs an opportunity for sporting reasons in terms of how they finished in the league and after the licensing committee confirmed they had met the licensing requirements for the premier league,&rdquo; remarked FKF President Nick Mwendwa.&ldquo;We are going to raise the Sh24 million needed to expand the league to show the level of seriousness we as a federation have on expanding the league,&rdquo; added the federation supremo. He said they will ask KPL, as part of the budget of an expanded league, to withhold the over Sh11 million that the league pays to the federation as affiliation fees. Thika United also heaved a sigh of relief after they met the criteria thus qualifying for a provisional license. Meanwhile, Kenya&rsquo;s representatives in the CAF Confederations Cup Ulinzi Stars yesterday stepped up their preparations for the continental assignment after playing to a barren draw with Western Stima at Moi Stadium in Kisumu.Stima coach Henry Omino fielded several new signings while his Ulinzi counterpart, Benjamin Nyangweso, fielded largely the same team which played in the SportPesa Premier League last season.Omino and Nyangweso said they used the game to gauge the fitness of their players besides trying out new formations. Nyangweso, whose team face Libyan Premier League side, Al-Hilal Benghazi at the Cairo Military Academy Stadium on February 10, said Ulinzi are ready for the match. &ldquo;We will be taking part in a number of competitions both domestic and continental and that means we have to be at our level best. Every build-up match is aimed at gauging my preparedness and making sound judgment on selection,&rdquo; the tactician noted. On his part, Omino said he is impressed with the way his boys are playing. &ldquo;The draw against Ulinzi was not so bad though if we had our chances, we would beat them. Our fitness levels are not bad since the boys played a strong game despite the scorching sun,&rdquo; he said in a post-match interview. Earlier at the same venue, National Super League side, Palos FC came from behind to draw 1-1 with newly promoted SportPesa Premier League side, Kariobangi Sharks. Francis Manoah gave the KPL outfit the lead in the 34th minute as the first half ended 1-0. However, the home side put up a fight in the second half and their efforts were rewarded with an equaliser through Benedicto Jacob with 18 minutes to the whistle. Palos coach Paul Ogai said: &ldquo;The boys played well but we still need improvements in the defense. The goals they scored were as a result of defensive lapse.&rdquo;