Maina Kageni was the chief orchestrator of this beautiful proposal witnessed by many during the Valentines concert hosted at KICC.American RnB sensation Sisters With Voices on stage during their Saturday performance at the KICC. MOSES MWANGIThe Classic 105 breakfast host was in on a surprise proposal that was sprung on an unsuspecting city girl identified as Veronicah Wambui.The proposal took place after Kenyan songstresses Kavi Pratt and Atemi performed. The concert was headlined by Visiting American stars Blackstreet and SWV.The RnB bigwigs brought back the 90's nostalgia that was the soundtrack of the lives of many Nairobians who grew up listening to the two RnB groups.Maina was smack in the middle of one of the highlights of the night, a surprise proposal.He was the MC of the night, so he made an announced that Veronicah Wambui had won the best dressed award of the night and called her on stage to receive her reward. She was dressed in an elegant white dress. Then when her fiance, Peter Irachu joined her on stage for moral support, he changed the script and got on one knee and proposed.She said, "Yes".The crowd was ecstatic. They cheered on the newest couple in town.Best-dressed lady of the night Veronica Wambui gets proposed to by her husband to be Peter IrachuThe gig housed many VIPS from CEOs, politicians, music personalities and media personalities. However, the ones with the most security attached to them were President Uhuru Kenyatta's scions.Tucked away in the VVIP tent was Jomo Kenyatta with his wife Achola Ngobi and Ngina Kenyatta. Jomo was in a black suit and Achola was in an exquisite long black dress.Ngina opted for a more casual look in jeans and a top.The show came to it's completion at 2am after the SWV and Blackstreet's performance. The crowd went crazy for Blackstreet's performance of Buy MeLove and SWV's Weak.Sigh!The nostalgia.Blackstreet serenaded the female audience and sweetened the deal by handing out roses.RnB group Backstreet entertain fans on state during their show on Saturday at the KICC. MOSES MWANGIAfro-Fusion sensation Atemi Oyungu on stage at the KICC on Saturday. MOSES MWANGIKavi PrattNana GechagaKaz Lucas and Sofi RajabDj's Nijo, Sheel and Pinye.