Anarchy in parts of Laikipia threatening multibillion-shilling investments in the tourism sector has prompted players to step in to find a solution.There has been violence in parts of the county because of drought. Some pastoralists graze their cows in large-scale ranches and conservancies. Desperate ones have driven their livestock into private land, causing violence. Concerns that the violence could cause losses running into billions, causing job losses have repeatedly been raised. The Kenya Tourism Board and the Kenya Tourism Federation met landowners and hoteliers on Thursday to find a solution. Although the violence has not been directed at tourists, the sector is sensitive to insecurity.During the meeting, it was agreed that even though the majority of Laikipia remains unaffected, continued dialogue should be sustained with the government, pastoralists and industry stakeholders. The Laikipia government continues to offer a diverse range of tourism products and is one of the pioneers of community based tourism in Kenya. Ol Pejeta Conservancy CEO Richard Vigne said the meeting was encouraging. &ldquo;It is clear the government now fully understands the urgent need to work proactively with the private sector to find solutions to drought-related problems across some parts of Northern and Western Laikipia,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;I believe we all have a part to play in this and Ol Pejeta and other conservancies are working with neighbouring pastoralist communities to find a way to assist them in this difficult period and in the long term,&rdquo; he said in a statement.On Thursday, the Laikipia Farmers&rsquo; Association called for the formation of a special prosecution unit.Association chairman Martin Evans said in a statement that this should be done by DPP Keriako Tobiko and Chief Justice David Maraga.He said private investors are running businesses that contribute Sh4 billion to the Kenyan economy annually. Evans said the industry pays Sh800 million a year in salaries to 5,000 employees.Vigne said rural communities in Laikipia should be integrated to ensure conservation. He said Ol Pejeta will work towards this.