The battle for West Pokot governor will be between the Jubilee Party and Kanu. JP has three hopefuls - Governor Simon Kachapin, North Pokot NG-CDF manager Wilson Koringura and Godfrey Lipale &ndash; while Kanu has Senator John Lonyangapuo.Kachapin seems to have the upper hand because of his development record.Koringura, one of the few individuals with a master's degree in the county, says he hopes the JP nominations will be free and fair.Lipale, who lost to Kachapin by 6,000 votes in the March 4, 2013, general election, says he is ready to face the two at the nominations. He ran on the ODM ticket in 2013.He is optimistic he will beat Kachapin, who has parted ways with Lonyangapuo. The senator supported him in the previous election.&ldquo;Kachapin and Lonyangapuo are busy fighting each other. This gives me the hope of winning this seat. As the Kiswahili saying goes, vita vya panzi furaha ya kunguru," he said.Lipale, who is well known at the grassroots for his initiatives, said his main agenda will be to ensure free secondary education. He said the transition rate from primary to secondary school is low because of high poverty levels.&ldquo;Transition rate from primary to secondary school is currently at 53 per cent, while illiteracy stands at 86 per cent,&rdquo; Lipale said. He said education is the only key to ending the county's numerous challenges.&ldquo;The free secondary education programme will help reduce illiteracy levels, insecurity, overdependence on relief food, improve [the] economy and living standards,&rdquo; Lipale said.He said he will set aside Sh640 million for education. This was his agenda in 2013. &ldquo;Kachapin has only allocated Sh160 million for bursaries. This is not enough for all the children who want to go to school,&rdquo; Lipale said.He said the county lacks professionals as parents cannot afford to pay school fees. Poverty levels are high due to harsh harsh climatic conditions. &ldquo;This county has only nine lawyers, 13 medical professionals and six engineers out of 960 youths,&rdquo; Lipale said.Kachapin enjoys the support of Deputy President William Ruto, area MPs and some MCAs. Ruto has toured the county more than 30 times to drum up support for Kachapin, who was also appointed chairman of the Jubilee steering campaign committee in the North Rift.Lonyangapuo has many times criticised Ruto for the visits and for interfering in its politics. He said it doesn&rsquo;t matter how many times Ruto visits, he will not change voters' minds.&ldquo;This is a Kanu zone and it doesn't matter how frequently the Deputy President visits. It will not change the stand of the county. I will make sure I win this seat,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said. He has accused Ruto of imposing leaders on residents to intimidate Kanu.Lonyangapuo has, however, assured President Uhuru Kenyatta that the region will support his reelection. He said,however, they do not want "middlemen" between the community and national government.&ldquo;We want the President to come here himself and campaign for his reelection, since the community no longer trust "brokers", who claim to have be the representatives of the government. As a community, we agreed to support the President during the Murkwijit declaration, where I was endorsed by elders to vie for governor,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said.Residents feel shortchanged because, despite supporting the current government by 99 per cent, they were not given major slots in the government&ldquo;Residents in West Pokot county have been taken for cattle rustlers and illiterates. Other areas which did not vote for Jubilee have benefited more than West Pokot,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said. He was installed as the community spokesperson after the death of Francis Lotodo.Start here &ldquo;This time round we must negotiate well to get government slots like ambassadors, Principal Secretaries ,Directors and others,&rdquo; he said.Lonynagpuo enjoys support of a section of members of assembly, elders and the youths.Recently the senator has been seen transversing the county asking residents to vote for him during the coming elections.Lonyangapuo has also been busy drafting a formula that he will use to unseat the current governor after they differed politically.In the previous elections the two we political friends and they helped each to ensure that they claim the current seats they are holding on Kanu ticket.Immediately after elections the two differed and the senator began admiring governors seat where he has accused Kachapin of mismanagement of county funds. The county receives over 4 billion from national government and over 98 million from county revenue.Lonyangapuo has been on record saying that he played a major role to help Kachapin clinch the seat, claims that have been refuted by the governor who insists that he declared to vie for the seat while he was still a secondary school head.Kachapin who is currently enjoying support from all elected leaders in the region has asked residents to support government to ensure that the region fast truck development. The county boss is being supported by Regina Nyeris (Women Representatitive), Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), David Pkosing (Pokot South), and majority of members of County assembly &ldquo;The government has initiated many development projects in this region and am ready to work with the government to ensure that this place is no longer marginalized,&rdquo; he said.He said the government has uplifted health sector in the county and residents are no longer seeking the services outside their sub counties.&ldquo;Before devolution residents used to walk for over 20 kilometres to seek medical help but my government has helped to reduced the distance to less than five kilometers,&rdquo; he said.Kachapin has asked those criticizing his government to stop and give him time to execute his mandates as the elected governor.&ldquo;I know there are many people who are admiring my seat but my development record will help me retain my seat in nominations and come general elections,&rdquo; he said.He said that residents have been able to access various development projects after devolution was introduced and asked the residents to support the government of the day for them to continue enjoying more services.Kachapin said he is among the best performing governors in the country and he is ready to defend his seat.He said he has helped open up road network in the region that has helped improve economy of the county since residents can easily access markets and trade.&ldquo;There are some locations in this county that never had a single road. My government has opened new roads that has enabled easy movement of people, goods and services,&rdquo; he said.However, Lonyangapuo has maintained that the county is still a Kanu strong hold and most seats in the region will be taken by Kanu candidates during next general elections.West pokot county has four constituencies and twenty wards. The county has both arid and semi arid climatic conditions.Pokot south and parts of Kapnguria constituencies are food baskets for the county since the regions have favorable climatic conditions for farming.The larger percentage of the region is arid and residents are pastoralists who depend on livestock as a source of income.The major challenge that faced the county in the past years was insecurity but immediately after jubilee government ascent unto power, elected leaders from the region held series of peace caravan in volatile regions and asked residents to live in peace.The residents along Turkana Pokot border for the past two years have been living in peace and this has seen more investors will to invest in the region.