Former United States International University-Africa hockey player Pauline Naise has joined Amiras Sailors ahead of the 2017 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) league.Naise, who has been away from the hockey scene for two years, said joining the banking outfit was a perfect place for her to redeem herself. Naise picked ankle injury in 2015 after featuring for the national team in the World League two series in Uruguay and was sidelined for the better part of the year.After recuperating, she opted for football, where she represented Kenya in a number of international events including the women&rsquo;s Africa Cup of Nations. The forward player noted joining football, where she also for the Vihiga Leeds during the 2016 Football Kenya Federation women&rsquo;s Premier League wasn&rsquo;t a coincidence as she has always loved the discipline. &ldquo;After I picked an ankle injury in 2015, I went up-country to rest and nurse the injury. When I recovered, I begun my normal jogging and it was then that I linked up with Vihiga Leeds and started training. The coach was impressed with my ability and that&rsquo;s how I was drafted in the team,&rdquo; observed Naise.She added: &ldquo;Within a short period I was called to the national women&rsquo;s football team and I will forever remain grateful to the technical bench for the chance I was given. However, I am back in hockey and glad I have find a home at Amiras Sailors and that&rsquo;s where I want to get my groove back. So far things are looking up for me after I scored a goal last Friday to help my team win 3-1 in friendly match against USIU-A.&rdquo;Asked if she intends to quit football, the player said: &ldquo;Not really. The program for both sports are yet to be rolled out but I believe I have the capability to juggle between the two sports. Besides, if the last year program is anything to go by, then I believe I will be available for both teams. I am ready to adjust according to the program. My objective is to help both teams&mdash;Vihiga leeds and Amira Sailors&mdash;to improve on their last season&rsquo;s performance.&rdquo;