Trend setters Mathare United are leaving nothing to chance when it comes to the physical well being of their players.The 2008 champions reportedly took their players through a pre-season medical test ahead of the start of the 2017 football season. The players, according to a post on one of the clubs social media pages, underwent the physical test at the German Medical Centre ahead of the new campaign under the supervision of team doctor Wycliffe Omom.Omom said in the post that they want to avoid the possibility of having any of their players life at risk at a time when the sporting fraternity is reeling from fatalities, arising from the pitch. Two rugby players&mdash;Mwamba&rsquo;s Victor Wayodi died from cardiac arrest after collapsing during a Kenya Cup tie against Top Fry while Ogeto Gecheo passed on after he suffered spinal injury.&ldquo;The medical pre-season test is geared towards eliminating the risks of players getting sudden medical complications that could affect their performance during the season.The key areas that we have looked into are the functions of the heart and this has been informed by the latest prevalence of increased cardiac attacks among sportsmen,&rdquo; he noted. &ldquo;Last year, we had a number of cases reported all over the world and closer home, we saw some rugby players affected. Therefore, Mathare United have taken this initiative to mitigate such risks from occurring within our squad,&rdquo; remarked Omom. &ldquo;The test has just ended and the analysis of the findings will be released in the next 24 hours for every player. However, preliminary findings indicate that most of the players are in good condition,&rdquo; concluded Omom.At the same time, Edward Seda and Roy Syamba will not be available for selection for the entire first leg of the league after the duo were ruled out due to long term injuries.While confirming the recent development, Omom expressed confidence that Seda will be fully fit for the second leg but remained coy on Syamba&rsquo;s return to full fitness.&ldquo;Seda is in his second week of intensive rehabilitation and he is set to continue with the same program for seven weeks. After that, he will start light training for four weeks then join the rest of the team towards the end of the first leg.&rdquo;&ldquo;Roy has had slow progress since he developed an infection on his knee after his surgery. We intend to do some scans on his knee before we can decide on the next course of action,&rdquo; Omom stated. The absence of the duo will affaect the slum boys as they already lost three key players Whyvonne Isuza, Robinson Kamura and Eric Johanna.