AFTER the extradition of the Akasha brothers and their two friends from India and Pakistan, there has been panic in certain circles. Among those who are said to have panicked is a close friend of Vijay Goswami (the Indian, pictured), who owns many high-end houses in Westlands. The Kenyan of Indian origin is said to be the man keeping the money and property belonging to Goswami. Officials say it is just a matter of time before he is also caught as part of continuing efforts to bring down the Akasha organisation. ***** TALKING of drugs and drug trafficking, there seems to be a new drive by the authorities to address the menace in this country. But many don&rsquo;t trust the drive and think it is a political move to settle some deep-running differences. This comes after some of the suspected traffickers, who were arrested and charged in court were granted bail by people and institutions linked to high offices in this country. Sometime back, a man who was linked to the ship that was blown up by the Navy in the Indian ocean in 2014 with a drugs cargo was seen having good times with a top member of the Executive - only moments after the operation out at sea that had been overseen by the President. ***** A serving MP from Northeastern is so uneasy that he cannot hide his hatred towards a Woman representative from his county. The man was recently overheard telling those who cared to listen that he will be the happiest man if the lady lost the seat on August 8. The legislator vowed that he will personally campaign against her reelection. He went on to tell residents that they are better off with any other woman but the current one. ***** THE employees of three banks that have been fleecing clients of millions of shillings in deposits are trying all the tricks in the book to hush up the inside-job heists, lest it leads to a massive run on the banks. Although the employees and civilians involved have been interrogated and statements recorded, the financial institutions are not eager to have the case get much publicity just yet. Some of the banks have already secretly paid back hundreds of millions of shillings to affected clients, on the understanding that they don&rsquo;t go public over the issue. ***** AS the term of the 12 Parliament comes to an end, voters will gauge the performance of their leaders and whether they deserve another stab at any job. But the poor contribution of some legislators will not escape the keen eyes of observers. One of these is the nominated MP from a constituency that borders Somalia. According to residents, the man is yet to make his maiden speech in the National Assembly, despite being nominated to represent the interests of the youth.