The 89th Academy Awards will be held on February 26. The following is the first of a two-part series previewing the movies nominated for various awards.ARRIVALRating: 4.5/5Amy Adams plays a woman who talks to aliens. Or at least she wants to, desperately. She&rsquo;s not crazy; she&rsquo;s Dr Louise Banks, a linguistics professor who gets called in by the US military, in the person of Forest Whitaker&rsquo;s army colonel, to make contact with the creatures whose oval spaceships hover overhead in rural Montana.Interspersed with the threats of global invasion is the story of a daughter Louise loved and lost, much like what Sandra Bullock&rsquo;s character experienced in Gravity. But Adams and Villeneuve make it work beautifully. Adams, her face a reflection of conflicting emotions, is simply stellar in an Oscar-buzzed performance of amazing grit and grace. Without her, Arrival might be too cerebral to warm up to. With her, the film gets inside your head and emerges as something intimate and epic, a linguistics odyssey through space and time. It&rsquo;s the stuff that dreams are made of.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing and Best Production DesignFENCESRating: 4.5/5Like being hit by lightning, watch Fences. Director-star Denzel Washington carves it out of his own heart and soul, in tribute to Wilson &ndash; who died in 2005 at 60 and receives sole screenplay credit &ndash; and in honour of a great, searing drama that stubbornly resists being sliced into small pieces and served to short attention spans.The power onscreen is undeniable, and the movie builds on the performances of Washington and Davis, who both won Tony awards for the roles in 2010. Davis plays Rose like a gathering storm; her final speech about who Rose is and what she stands for is a stunning feat. And Washington is monumental as a man trying to stand tall as the world and his own ego conspire to crush him. That last image of Troy, his bat ready to swing at his demons, is indelible. Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Adapted ScreenplayHELL OR HIGH WATERRating: 4/5Chris Pine proves he can act. Ben Foster, well, he always could. And Jeff Bridges shows them both how it&rsquo;s done. Those are just three riveting reasons to pony up for Hell or High Water. This one&rsquo;s a goodie &mdash; a mesmerising, modern-day Western that moves with the coiled intensity of a rattlesnake ready to spring. Set in West Texas, this fierce and funny hellraiser takes turns into areas where there&rsquo;s no moral compass.That Pine can hold his own with these two pros suggests a promising acting future ahead for Captain Kirk. These exceptional performances lift the bar on a film that expertly mixes jolts of violence with social awareness and a sense of life lived on the edge. Don&rsquo;t make it a question of if you should see Hell or High Water; make it a question of how soon. It&rsquo;s that special.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor, Best Original Screenplay and Best Film EditingCAPTAIN FANTASTICRating: 4/5Viggo Mortensen is at the top of his game in this family dramedy, shot through with humor and heart. Written and directed with scrappy grace by Matt Ross, Captain Fantastic takes turns you don&rsquo;t see coming.It&rsquo;s true that the conflict is drawn on familiar lines with clich&eacute;s ever ready to invade. But Ross never trades in the humanity of his characters for an easy laugh or tear. The film&rsquo;s authenticity extends to the natural-light cinematography of the gifted St&eacute;phane Fontaine (A Prophet) and the crisp editing of Joseph Krings (Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead). Still, it&rsquo;s the actors who make us believe. The film doesn&rsquo;t take sides, but it does fairly, subtly and movingly represent them. Captain Fantastic takes a piece out of you.Nominated for: Best ActorJACKIERating: 4.5/5Maybe you&rsquo;re thinking the last thing you want to see is a TV-movie&ndash;ish take on the life of Jacqueline Kennedy. Good news. There&rsquo;s hardly a conventional biopic minute in it. Instead, you get a spellbinding look at one of the planet&rsquo;s most famous women through the prism of what happens right after her husband is assassinated and she cradles his bullet-shattered head in her lap. Let me mention right off the gate that Natalie Portman, in a performance that tops her Oscar-winning role in Black Swan, will floor you with her tour de force as the former First Lady. The iconic look, the breathy voice and the strictly correct posture are suggested but never crassly imitated.This is a woman who will not be denied, and neither will this potent cinematic provocation. Powered by a transfixing Portman, Larrain&rsquo;s film &ndash; one of the year&rsquo;s best &ndash; is appropriately hard to pin down and impossible to forget.Nominated for: Best Actress, Best Costume Design and Best Original ScoreELLERating: 4.5/5Director Paul Verhoeven delivers a perverse kick, whether his films are terrific (Spetters, Robocop, Black Book) or just terrific trash (Basic Instinct, Showgirls, Starship Troopers). His new surprise package, Elle, is a dark comedy about ... rape. Like I said, the dude is a button pusher.Huppert, a fearless actress, gives a performance that&rsquo;s a riveting mix of carnal and chilly &ndash; you can&rsquo;t take your eyes off her. There is outrage from critics who mistakenly believe that this is a film about a woman who enjoys sexual assault and might even deserve it, given her own complicity in rape-obsessed video games. But from its opening salvo to the shocking twist ending, Elle refuses to traffic in anything resembling misogynistic business as usual. Verhoeven creates a bonfire of a movie that scrutinises and satirises the unholy alliance between sex and violence. The result is fiendishly funny and fiercely disturbing. Dig in.Nominated for: Best ActressTHE LOBSTERRating: 4.5/5Think of a future that plays like arranging a date on the internet, only this time it&rsquo;s a matter of life or death. That will give you some idea of what&rsquo;s going on in the terrifically twisted satire that is The Lobster, the first English-language feature by the daring Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos (Dogtooth, Alps).I will say that this bracing allegory hits home about the rules society &mdash; and by extension, us &mdash; impose on relationships. The symbolism is humanised by a top-flight cast and an ending that manages to be brutal and rapturously romantic at the same time. The director asks, with skepticism and regret, is true love a fantasy or a felony, or something in between? Nominated for: Best Original ScreenplayHACKSAW RIDGERating: 5/5Mel Gibson is back. You may have issues with the star&rsquo;s past history of anger and intolerance. But you&rsquo;ll have no issue with Hacksaw Ridge, a movie about a different kind of brave heart. It&rsquo;s the fact-based, World War II story of Private First Class Desmond T. Doss, the first conscientious objector to receive the Congressional Medal of Honour. Andrew Garfield, in the best performance of his career to date, plays Desmond, a feisty kid out of Virginia&rsquo;s Blue Ridge mountains who swears just as vehemently to go into combat as a medic. How does this cornstalk-skinny pacifist, a devoted Seventh-Day Adventist, enter the front lines, where you shoot to kill just to stay alive?Thanks to some of the greatest battle scenes ever filmed, Gibson once again shows his filmmaking prowess, juxtaposing savagery with aching tenderness. There&rsquo;s always been more than an adrenaline rush in his work. Look at Braveheart, for which he won the Oscar as best director. Hacksaw Ridge is being touted as his comeback. Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing and Best Film Editing