With the birth of NASA this week, we are reliving our political history in the struggle for the Second Liberation. We need to carefully take stock of this development while welcoming it as a great stride by the present opposition to rid this nation of a government which has obviously outdone all previous ones in corruption, impunity and flagrant abuses of public offices. The litany of the Jubilee misdeeds and lies is long: we shall not engage in that now. But we wish NASA success in preserving our constitutional gains and introducing only those amendments which will advance democratization, good governance, social justice, equity and the rule of law.Going down memory lane to the dark days of the Kanu regime, we shall notice that Kenya has really changed. What of the new constitutional dispensation and the enormous freedoms that we now have under the Bill of Rights. What of the ability to go to court and be heard with the possibility that one does not need to hire a lawyer if one can pay a judge to win a case fairly. I call it &ldquo;a possibility&rdquo; because underhand deals are still known to exist in our judiciary, and cases take an inordinately long time in courts if an innocent Kenyan does not know what to do to &ldquo;get things done.&rdquo; There are still many untidy ends that we need to tie up in our constitution and many laws we need to pass to ensure that the cardinal principles of good governance are practiced by the state, state institutions and ordinary citizens.But what is more worrying is the flagrant manner in which the state itself and its institutions at times ignores constitutional principles and the laws of the land in dispensing with favours, abusing public office, misusing public resources, aiding and abetting corruption and, in the final analysis, institutionalising impunity. Looked at carefully, we shall discover that there is one major mistake that we made in creating our very promising constitution. That mistake was to preserve a presidential system of government and only to create structures around it meant to keep it in check. This experiment has failed and we had better remove this political albatross around our neck as soon as possible. It is also the problem that has always bedevilled coalition making in our country since the Narc days.With the exception of South Africa where a president exists in name but acts in reality like a prime minister, elsewhere in the world presidential systems of government are in trouble. They are a threat to democracy and other democratic institutions in government. They cannot really be tamed institutionally. They will always find a sluice gate for creating some form of impunity to undermine democracy. They are anachronistic. They are a danger. They should be dispensed with.Why should one person have so much powers? He is who the son or daughter of who to be so superior and enjoy the real possibility of going out of institutional control? Why should he or she have so much powers over life and death however couched in all kinds of procedures meant to make it seem as if that decision is not, in the final analysis, his alone to make? Look at what is happening in the US. One would have thought that after so many years of so-called tradition, President Donald Trump would have thought that there are certain things you just don&rsquo;t do in America even if you have the powers to do so as a President. But Trump is not Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who once said that the Constitution of Tanzania gives him so much powers that were he to use them all he would be the worst dictator in Africa. And this is the point. However much one would want to tame the presidency constitutionally, that institution has the potential of always going rogue. Let us banish it from all our attempts to create constitutional democratic governance. Which brings me to NASA.Yes. At the moment there is no other way to go to the next step of rescuing our country from the misrule by Jubilee but to create NASA the Narc way and to restore an atmosphere where we can make political and economic progress like we did under Narc. We must put men and women in power with the interest, ability and commitment to implement this constitution. What we have today is a government led by two men whose main interest is to use state power for risk evasion. First, to avoid the risk of being pursued further by the ICC. And second to avoid the risk of not being exceptionally rich and powerful. These two risk evasion politics are ruining our country because they are not national causes but individual pursuits; they are not popular projects but personal projects; they are not meant to promote the public good but to undermine it; they are not done democratically but laced with a great deal of impunity.NASA must behave differently when in government. But to institutionalise this different behaviour NASA must rekindle the spirit of the original Bomas of Kenya discussions which sought to establish a parliamentary system of government in Kenya where the head of government is a Prime Minister who is answerable to Parliament and not simply to a small group of people which he chooses, called a cabinet, and which has the potential of being a simple rubber stamp to his or or her decisions. Constitutionally, our current president is supposed to be answerable to Parliament. But with the tyranny of numbers and the politics of plutocracy, this accountability has easily been undermined by the presidency. And that is why I have already said that any presidential system of government &mdash; including its weak version in South Africa and its old aged &ldquo;strong&rdquo; version in the US &mdash; always has the potential of subverting democratic governance.In the process of making the current constitution, our position in ODM was to have a pure parliamentary system of government as was contained in the original Bomas of Kenya draft and not the subsequent versions, including the discredited Wako or Kilifi draft. Our team in the Naivasha talks, which preceded the final parliamentary debates before the draft constitution was taken to the referendum, was led by the deputy party leader William Ruto. When this team came back to report to us the final agreements in Naivasha we were shocked to hear that the parliamentary system had been thoroughly compromised in preference for the mongrel system that we have today.When NASA comes to power I pray that we retrace our steps to where we were in the original Bomas of Kenya when the popular demand was for a parliamentary system. If in doubt of this system just look at India and Canada. Two very different societies with different histories and cultural make up. But in terms of accountability in government a Prime Minister can only condone a Eurobond type of behaviour at the great risk of either being thrown away by his own party or losing elections big time at the next elections. But look at Kenya. Even when Josephine Kabura carries the loot in &ldquo;gunias&rdquo; out of a bank, and &ldquo;the who is who&rdquo; in government are complicit in such behaviour, nothing really happens. When we became self governing, the British handed to us a parliamentary system of government as they did in Singapore, India, Malaysia and many other places. Jomo Kenyatta became a Prime Minister on Madaraka Day of June 1963. Soon after that, when we decided to become a Republic, we transformed Kenyatta into a President and started to deity him as a demigod until he believed he was actually one, throwing people into detention without trial and oathing ethnic kinsmen to retain power by the force of fear. The late Ali Mazrui called this kind of behaviour &ldquo;the monarchical tendency in African politics.&rdquo; And he was right.NASA must not perpetuate this monarchical tendency. From day one the Okoa Kenya initiative must be revived. We are not getting into government to grab the playing grounds of school children, or to build castles in the countryside, or to stuff our accounts abroad with Eurobond money. We are going into government to Okoa Kenya. By God let us commit ourselves to do that. This world is not our home. Like our ancestors we are just passing through. Our responsibility is to make it liveable for all God&rsquo;s children. In other words, all God&rsquo;s children must have the shoes to walk through this life equally as much as possible.