United States of America have pulled out of the IAAF World Under-18 Championships scheduled for July in Nairobi.The United States Track and Field (USATF) yesterday announced that Team USA will not send a delegation of athletes to the IAAF world youth show slated for July 12-16 in Nairobi, KenyaA letter sent from USATF to youth coaches around the country stated that the decision stems from Kenya&rsquo;s designation as a critical threat by the U.S. Department of State. &ldquo;Critical is the highest crime and terrorism rating possible. Due to increased security costs and the fact that all athletes would be aged 18 and younger, USATF has decided not to hold a selection event nor to travel to the championship,&rdquo; the statement readLast year, IAAF President Sebastian Coe announced that the IAAF World Youth Championships would be discontinued after 2017. In the future, the IAAF will host regional events instead of a World Championship for youth and junior athletes. USA joins New Zealand, Britain, Australia, Canada and Switzerland in withdrawing from the prestigious youth event.New Zealand cited a foreign ministry recommendations which puts Kenya as &ldquo;currently high risk, with kidnapping, hijacking, terrorism and violent crime among major concerns&rdquo;.New Zealand and Britain will instead send their athletes to the Commonwealth Youth Games in the Bahamas from July 19-23.&ldquo;These withdrawals are worrying and we risk being left with only Africa and Asia as participants. Something needs to be done urgently,&rdquo; Local Organising Committee official, Barnabas Korir was quoted as saying. He said as much as security reasons are being cited preparations for the show have been very slow hence the country needs to engage a higher gear with a few months to go. He said they are yet to select Team Kenya for the event, which will be held a few weeks to national elections.The event will beheld three weeks to the general election in Kenya in August. LOC chief executive officer, Mwangi Muthee, has all along expressed confidence that Kenya will host the championships despite the low key preparations and government bureaucracy.