Narok county hosts the world-famous Masai Mara Game Reserve, with the wildebeest migration considered as one of the Seven Wonders of the world. The Narok County Government collects over Ksh 3 Billion as Revenue from the Game Reserve which hosts classy Hotels and Lodges for tourists who come over from all over the World to see for themselves various Wild Animals that are in the area. The Maasai are largely pastoralists and are known to keep large herds of cattle as a sign of wealth with anyone without cattle despite his education or wealth is looked down upon and cannot be considered for any leadership position. Narok County residents have also embraced the planting of Wheat, Barley, Sugarcane and Maize in large scale due to the large tracts of arable land in the County. Mining of Gold is currently being undertaken at Lolgorian area in the Trans Mara West Sub County. The battle for the Narok governor seat will be a three-horse race, in which incumbent Samuel Tunai will face off with Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu and former ICT Permanent Secretary Joseph Tiampati. It is a promising titanic battle. Tunai will defend his position on the Jubilee Party ticket, while Tiampati will stand on ODM. Ntutu, who was expected to go to the nominations for the Jubilee ticket with Tunai, will vie on the Chama Cha Mashinani. The contest will largely be determined by the support each of the candidates will marshall from the seven Maasai clans — the Purko, the Uasin Gishu, the Moitanik, the Keekonyokie, the Siria, the Ildamat, the Loita — and the Kipsigis community, who are the main inhabitants in the county. Patick and Tiampati come from the populous Purko clan, which inhabits Narok North, Narok South and Narok West constituencies, while Tunai hails from the minority Siria clan, which occupies Lolgorian and Kimintet wards in Kilgoris constituency. Tunai has the support of Kilgoris MP Gideon Konchellah, Narok Woman representative Soipan Tuya, Narok South MP Korei Lemein, Narok East MP Ken Kiloku and the majority of the 45 MCAs. In addition, he enjoys huge support among the Kipsigis in Narok. Ntutu enjoys the support of his elder brother and Narok Senator Stephen Ntutu and Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno, who comes from the Kipsigis community. It will be interesting to see whether Ng’eno will be able to influence his community not to support Tunai, despite Deputy President William Ruto asking the community to stick with the governor.  Konchellah, from the Uasin Gishu clan, says those opposed to Governor Tunai are yet to accept the fact that someone from a minority Maasai clan and from the Trans Mara region was elected governor against all their expectations, and that Tunai is likely to be reelected based on his impressive development record. Ng’eno, a harsh critic of Tunai, says they have done their calculations well and are assured Patrick will be the next Narok governor since Tunai has failed to deliver on the promises he made to the residents in 2013. "When Governor Tunai was elected in 2013, he went round the county promising local residents that in two years, he would deliver more than what all the combined Narok MPs had done. All that has turned out to be empty rhetoric,’’ Ng'eno said. Senator Ntutu says that he will retire from active politics in August.He says he will back former East African Affairs Principal Secretary John Konchellah, who comes from the Uasin Gishu clan and a cousin to Kilgoris MP, Gideon, to contest for the Senate seat and his younger brother Patrick to contest for governor. "The people of Narok are tired of the current administration because it has performed below their expectations. A new team with the face of the county should be elected in the August polls. Governor Tunai should retire from politics, just like I am doing, and give other people a chance to deliver,’’Senator Ntutu said. MP Ntutu says Governor Tunai should tell the people of Narok what he has done with over Sh32 billion the county has received in the past four years because the area still lags behind in terms of development. He says had the funds been well untilised, the county could be one of the richest in the country. ‘"Narok receives Sh5 billion from the National Treasury and collects Sh3 billion in revenue from the Masai Mara Game Reserve annually. In four years, that adds up to Sh32 billion, yet there is nothing to show for that money across this county,’’ MP Ntutu said.  He says he has traversed the county and there is no evidence the cash has done much in developing the area. Tiampati enjoys the support of Narok North MP Moitalel Kenta, who recently defected from Jubilee to ODM. Kenta says Tiampati was endorsed by elders from their Purko clan who wanted to field one candidate to face off with Tunai. "Tiampati is experienced in management, having been a career banker for many years. He is also a staunch Christian and will therefore ensure county resources are well used and equitably shared in all the 30 wards. He was also chosen by elders from our clan to compete against Tunai. Patrick should just withdraw from the race,’’ Kenta said. Tiampati, who emerged second in the 2013 general election, criticised Tunai for failing in his duties, saying the governor lives in Nairobi and only goes to his office twice a week. He also accused the governor of misusing county funds by using a chopper to move around the county. "Because Tunai knows our roads are pathetic and that he has done nothing about them in the past four years, he prefers using county funds to fly around in a helicopter, which costs around Sh170,000 per hour instead of using his official vehicles. He should be surcharged for this,’’ Tiampati said. Governor Tunai welcomed the entry of Ntutu and Tiampati to the governor race and said he did not expect to be elected unopposed. He said the question is not about whether he will be reelected but by what margin since in the last election as he didi in 2013. "In my term in office, we have initiated many development projects in this county, more than what other leaders have done in the 50 years they have been in leadership. The improvement of the roads, building health centres, schools and water projects for our people are some of the key flagship projects by the government that I lead,’’ Tunai said. He asked residents to evaluate all the elected leaders starting with the senator, the seven MPs and the 30 MCAs before voting for them since most of them were only focussed on criticising him instead of working for the people. Kimintet MCA Kijabe Tunai, who is also an uncle to the governor is said to wield a lot of influence in the county, says they expect to get more support than in 2013 because many people now know the governor, and what he is capable of. "This time round, we are very sure of retaining this seat because Tiampati and Ntutu will divide the Purko clan vote, while Governor Tunai will get votes from the Uasin Gishu, the Moitanik, the Keekonyokie, the Ildamat, the Loita, the Siria clans oand also the Kipsigis community,’’ Kijabe said.