Kenya Premier League champions, Tusker were sent crashing out of the CAF Champions League preliminary round after losing 2-1 to Mauritius side, AS Port Louis 2000.The Mauritius side went through on a 3-2 aggregate meet Sudan&rsquo; s Al Hilal in the first round.Tusker started the match brightly with midfielder Collins Shivachi pulling the strings as the hosts looked to hit Tusker on the counter by spreading the ball to the wings. Tusker first attempt at goal saw Noah Wafula float a cross to the box but it was easily gathered by the Port Louis custodian Luther Rose.The hosts almost took the lead in the 28th minute but the fierce effort narrowly missed the target. Tusker then piled on pressure and scored when from Humphrey Mieno floated corner which was half cleared by the hosts defence. The ball then landed on the unmarked midfielder Hashim Sempala, who lashed home a volley to the top right corner in the 37th minute to give Tusker the lead.Shivachi almost doubled the lead for the brewers with a well taken shot from outside the box but his effort went wide. Tusker keeper David Okello then saved the visitors from a corner by the hosts. Tusker missed a chance to increase their tally when Anthony Ndolo couldn&rsquo;t beat Rose from close range after being put through by Sempala with only the keeper to beat, ending the first half at 1-0 in their favour.On resumption, Port Louis came out firing on all cylinders and Okello had to twice deny the home side in second half as they searched for an equaliser. The home kept on piling on pressure and were rewarded in the 84th minute when Ephrem Guikan capitalised on sloppy defending to score the equaliser. Guikan was on the mark three minutes later when he found space among three defenders to score the second goal. Elsewhere, CAF mandarins are expected in the country today to start inspections on match venues that will go a long way to determine whether Kenya will host next year&rsquo;s African Nations Championships.During the meeting held over the weekend at Moi, Kasarani and chaired by FKF president Nick Mwendwa, the LOC discussed a wide range of issues touching on the country&rsquo;s level of preparedness and the upcoming Caf inspector&rsquo;s visit scheduled for between today and Friday.&ldquo;It is vital to point out that the outcome of the inspection will determine further our capability and capacity to successfully host CHAN 2018 in Kenya. As the host nation, we want to remove any doubts during the inspection and assure Caf and Africa as a whole that Kenya will be ready to host the 2018 CHAN,&rdquo; explained Mwendwa.The reason for this critical inspection visit is to determine the progress of Kenya&rsquo;s readiness in hosting the CHAN 2018 tournament.This is a high level follow up to two visits already done in 2016. The inspection will be on the various stadia that will be hosting the competition, training grounds, hospitals and hotels that will accommodate CAF delegations, officials and the participating teams.