Rate cap and vagaries of weather pose a bigger threat to Kenya's growth this year than political jitters ahead of the August 8 general election, economists polled from leading global banks, consultancies and think-tanks have suggested. A monthly consensus growth forecast report by Barcelona-based FocusEconomics states persistent adverse weather conditions from fourth quarter of 2016 was likely to cool the steam in the economy. &ldquo;Deteriorating financial conditions as a result of the interest rate cap also pose a risk to the country&rsquo;s growth prospects,&rdquo; researchers at the macroeconomic analysis firm said on Tuesday. The concerns on the likely impact of interest controls, enforced last September, on growth mirrors those raised by the International Monetary Fund on January 25. The IMF said while the interest rate caps are manageable short-term, they could destabilise the financial services sector long-term.&ldquo;Although the adverse effects of the controls are manageable in the near term, if maintained, they could potentially pose a risk to financial stability,&rdquo; deputy managing director and acting chair Tao Zhang had warned. &ldquo;Therefore, it is essential to remove these controls, while taking steps to prevent predatory lending and increase competition and transparency of the banking sector.&rdquo; National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said in an economic update report to the National Assembly this week that full-year credit to the private sector to December 2016 increased by 4.3 per cent compared with 20.6 per cent a year earlier. The slowdown, linked to rate cap and interest turmoil in fourth quarter of 2015, is slowest since 2008 when the economy expanded by a paltry 0.2 per cent. This was largely on the impact of the post-election violence that had wiped off new investments. Kenya's growth in 2017 is, however, expected to remain strong at 5.7 per cent &ndash; a 0.1 percentage point downgrade from last month's consensus projection by FocusEconomics. This will make Kenya the fifth fastest growing economy among major economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Ghana are expected to grow faster at 7.9, 7.3, 7.2 and 6.2 per cent, respectively. &ldquo;(Kenya's) GDP growth is expected to remain broadly stable this year, supported by strong public investment and loose monetary policy,&rdquo; the report says.The outlook is based on the consensus of the forecast by the 12 global banks, consultancies and think-tanks. They include JPMorgan of the US which projects a 5.5 per cent growth in 2017, HSBC of the UK ( 5.5 per cent), Standard Chartered Bank ( 5.0 per cent), Barclays Capital ( 5.7 per cent) and New York-based brokerage firm Citigroup Global Markets ( 5.2 per cent). Others are Fitch Ratings-owned BMI Research (5.6 per cent), consultancy firm Capital Economics of the UK ( 6.0 per cent), Washington-headquartered Frontier Strategy ( 5.0 per cent), Economist Intelligence Unit ( 5.5 per cent) and credit insurance firm Euler Hermes of France ( 6.5 per cent). Oxford Economics, the Oxford University's economic forecasting arm, sees Kenya growing by 6.4 per cent while Euromonitor International, a London-headquartered research firm, projects a 6.1 per cent growth.