The 22-year-old Engineering student suspected to have been butchered by her brother in a fight over food will be buried today at the family&rsquo;s Gatundu home.Parts of Grace Nduta Mwaura&rsquo;s dismembered body were recovered from Juja and some from a pit latrine at the family home in Kahawa Sukari &mdash; a week after she was reported missing on January 25.The 24-year-old brother, Charles Kibe Mwaura, will be conspicuously missing from the event. He is currently in police custody at the Ruiru police station. He was discharged from the Aga Khan Hospital and locked up. Police obtained a court order to detain him for another seven days, pending investigations.Kibe, the first-born son in a family of three, was also not present at the memorial service held last Thursday at the Kahawa Sukari Deliverance Church. Hundreds of friends and relatives attended the service and paid glowing tribute to Nduta. They described her as a hardworking girl who brought joy and pride to her family.Nduta&rsquo;s father, Elizaphan Mwaura Kibe, gave a moving tribute of the treasured moments with his daughter. He spoke of his close relationship with Nduta and the fond memories he will treasure. &ldquo;You were not only my daughter but my best friend,&rdquo; he said in a speech delivered on his behalf by his friend, Simon Ngige.Grace&rsquo;s aunt, Jane Makumi, spoke of their collective dreams that had been shattered: a big graduation party and an even bigger wedding in future. She said Grace strove to earn her position in her university class. &ldquo;She was the kind of child any parent would want to have,&rdquo; Makumi said.Ironically, the only statement that made direct reference to the man accused of killing his sister was by their father. &ldquo;I remember one time at the Coast,&rdquo; Mwaura said, as though addressing Grace directly. &ldquo;You made such delicious food that your brother took three portions.&rdquo; On Thursday when Kibe opened the written tribute to his daughter, his voice failed him. He waved his friend, Ngige, over to read the letter, only delivering a brief farewell: &ldquo;Always call me Baba Grace,&rdquo; he said. That&rsquo;s the way he would want to be addressed as a way of keeping his daughter&rsquo;s memory alive. Victoria Gakii, a fellow Engineering student, remembered Grace as a caring person who was full of life, hardworking and a committed Christian.