The Court of Appeal yesterday declined to issue orders stopping the Employment and Labour Relations Court from jailing doctors&rsquo; representatives for contempt of court.Instead, it directed the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists&rsquo; Union to serve Health CS Cleopa Mailu within 48 hours for the hearing of their case.Judges Hellen Okwengu, GBM Kariuki and Jamila Mohamed said the case should be set on a date on a priority basis.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t find it appropriate to issue any orders of stay at the moment. When this application was called out, service had not been effected to the interested party [ the CS],&rdquo; said Justice Kariuki, who read the ruling. In the suit, the KMDPU is the applicant, while the Council of Governors is listed as a respondent. The doctors, through lawyer Mutula Kilonzo Junior, moved to court to stop the jailing of their union officials for one month. The union is tussling with the government over the 2013 Collective Bargaining Agreement.The medics want a 300 per cent pay rise and better working conditions, in line with the CBA. When they took the CBA to court for registration last year, Justice Monica Mbaru ruled that the union had to negotiate a new one with the Health ministry, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the CoG.The counties employ about 90 per cent of doctors but were not involved in the 2013 CBA. Judge Hellen Wasilwa, who is handling the case at the ELRC, will rule on the sentencing tomorrow. The doctors, in their application before the judge, want the court to suspend the jail sentence for another two weeks to pave way for talks on ending the strike that began on December 5.Through secretary general Ouma Oluga, the union say they need more time to fully comply with judge Wasilwa&rsquo;s directions. Wasilwa said, &ldquo;[This is for] refusing to end the doctors&rsquo; strike or whether to put timeliness and guidelines to resolve the stalemate.&rdquo;Kilonzo said the court should give directions to Mailu to end the strike. &ldquo;My lady, give directions to CS Mailu on how to ensure there is discourse with doctors,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;In my shuttle diplomacy between the doctors and the CS, there have been no guidelines on how the talks can be done.&rdquo;But the prosecutor said there was no way such orders could be given to the CS. CoG lawyer Eunice Lumalias termed the doctors&rsquo; demands frivolous.