President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto rationalised their Jubilee coalition to ride into power as a shield against ICC crimes against humanity charges at The Hague. In fact, holding the presidency would ensure the fight back without depending on anyone&rsquo;s goodwill. That&rsquo;s how they deceitfully jettisoned Musalia Mudavadi by reneging on an agreement. However, on the campaign trail, they justified the TNA and URP marriage on the need to bury the hatchet of the ugly 2007-08 post-election violence, which was largely a Kikuyu versus the rest turmoil. The Kikuyu and Kalenjin have since Independence lived in Cold-Warlike fear of mutual destruction. For nothing has dominated Jubileenomics more than competition by the political elite from the two communities to loot the public purse in a re-arming frenzy.But the communities never entered a pact other than a mutual partnership in 2013 to save their two sons. And nothing points to the existing mistrust between the two more than the Kikuyu&rsquo;s nervous search for ways to circumvent repaying the &ldquo;Uhuru debt&rdquo; by voting for Ruto in 2022 under an &ldquo;or else&rdquo; Kalenjin threat.This is the reality of mutual distrust that the political elites now face. In as far as the Kikuyu syndicates are concerned; they have paid their debt by babysitting Ruto financially into a shared presidency. The least they expect is to be asked to continue paying an accumulated political debt they weren&rsquo;t party to in 2022. If the Kikuyu elite were asked, Ruto should be satisfied with the financial windfall he enjoys courtesy of his acolytes&rsquo; gatekeeping rent collection stations in public service. But the Ruto brigade argues that they earned their keep both now and in 2022 by bringing numbers that tilted the vote in favour of Uhuru and bearing the burden of rude jokes about prolonging the Kikuyu reign over other Kenyans. To them, they&rsquo;re owed a return favour in 2022, &ldquo;wapende wasipende&rdquo;, as Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago would put it. However, to deal a death blow to the cloud of mutual hostility between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin that could deteriorate into bloodshed engulfing the whole country, and to help bring lasting co-existence among Kenyan communities, the Kikuyu must sacrifice Uhuru in 2017 by not voting Jubilee. To escape the unintended consequences of being held at ransom by the Kalenjin to vote for Ruto in 2022, the Kikuyu have an opportunity to settle the matter in 2017. Failure to do this will prolong the agony of mutual resentment. On their side, the Kalenjin should be grateful for the Kikuyu decision to sacrifice Uhuru&rsquo;s second term as an opportunity to remove the blot of being the poster boy of impunity among Kenyan communities, courtesy of Ruto. Now that Kanu announced it will field a presidential candidate, the Kalenjin have nothing to lose should they support Kanu. Indeed, they could be rehearsing for 2022. Better still, they could go for the Bomet Governor&rsquo;s Chama cha Mashinani and get enough seats to negotiate their way back to government via a post-election agreement with the victorious NASA. The victorious Kenyan other communities would then be magnanimous to both the Kikuyu and Kalenjin by ushering in an inclusive government. Kenyans don&rsquo;t want to exchange an ethnic duopoly for a multi-opoly. Public service jobs should be shared on a pro-rata basis based on population propositions. This will mean the Kikuyu continue their domination of public service followed consecutively by the Luhya, Kalenjin, Luo, Kamba, Kisii, Meru and others.No one other than ethnic brokers will be the loser as Kenya gains on ethnic integration and cohesion. Should this happen, and it can, the presidency will cease being the most divisive coveted office in Kenya. We may even agree finally the presidency becomes rotational every five years, given its ceremonial status under an amended constitution.