A story is told of a traveller who hired a donkey to convey him to a distant place. The day being intensely hot, the traveller stopped to rest, and sheltered under the donkey&rsquo;s shadow.But there was only room for one, and both the traveller and the donkey&rsquo;s owner claimed it. A violent dispute arose over which of them had the right to the shadow. The owner argued he had only hired out the donkey, not its shadow. But the traveller argued that by hiring the donkey, he had hired its shadow also. The quarrel degenerated into a physical fight. The donkey galloped off while the men fought over its shadow. So what does this have to do with today&rsquo;s topic?Since the March 4, 2013, general election, Kenyans have been treated to unending politicisation by the opposition of the various challenges the country faces. This has extended to issues that are beneficial to the country, just to make the government look bad. What these careless statements have done is to put the opposition at loggerheads with the government, derailing its key agenda for the country. The war of words is akin to the traveller and the donkey&rsquo;s owner arguing over the animal&rsquo;s shadow. The opposition pretends to sympathise with a situation to gain political mileage. This wolf in sheep&rsquo;s clothing approach is unfortunate, and should be the last thing expected of national leaders.In the last couple of weeks, opposition chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s visits to Northeastern and the Coast have been capped with claims the government is targeting Muslims in the name of the war on drugs. He even claimed that the Jubilee administration was indiscriminately targeting Muslims and the Somali community in its war on al Shabaab. Yet the government and KDF&rsquo;s efforts to fight radicalisation by fighting al Shabaab in Somalia have made Kenya safer. It is therefore wrong for Raila to try to trigger a war of words with the government, as this will only deal a blow to these efforts to the detriment of all Kenyans.As Kenyans struggle to deal with the ravaging drought, the opposition has seen this as an opportunity to hit out at the government. While one may fault the government for possible poor planning, it is wrong for opposition leaders to claim the government does not care, hence the drought.The opposition has taken every opportunity to criticise the government over the doctors, teachers and lecturers&rsquo; strikes, but has not offered any solution. Some opposition leaders have even gone to the extent of claiming that the government is deliberately killing Kenyans through the doctors&rsquo; strike.The opposition leadership must appreciate that, with devolution, all sides of the political divide have a stake in the country&rsquo;s welfare. In fact, with health and Early Childhood Development Education being devolved, the opposition governors have a greater role to play.It would, therefore, be dishonest to portray the current challenges as just the government&rsquo;s problem. Everyone has a stake in solving the challenges that arise in this country, whether they supported the elected government or not. This country belongs to all of us, and we cannot be seen to cheer when it is burning and dea with issues from a political angle. Instead, we should all seek solutions to the drought, security as well as industrial action.