Ulinzi Stars were set to leave the country last night for Libya, where they are due to play Al Ahly Benghazi in the CAF Confederation Cup on Friday.The soldiers played three build up matches, winning 2-1 against Muhoroni Youth at their backyard on last week with goals scored by Boniface and Samuel Onyango. On Wednesday morning, they played to a 0-0 draw with fellow Premier League side Western Stima before the last one, a 2-2 draw against Premier League champions Tusker, who will also be flying Kenya&rsquo;s flag in the CAF Champions League. Ulinzi coach Benjamin Nyangweso expressed his exasperation with the clubs forward line, ruing the number of chances they wasted in the tune ups.&ldquo;Overall, we are playing very well, but the problem is that final product. We create very many chances but scoring is a problem. We are working on it and I am confident we will get better with time. The team is ready for the first game against Benghazi. We now only need to polish on the few weak areas,&rdquo; Nyangweso said.In the final friendly, Tusker came from behind twice with Loyd Wahome cancelling out Baron Oketch&rsquo;s early penalty strike before goal-getter Allan Wanga rescued the game for the brewers late on after Enos Ochieng had added the second for the Kenya Defence Forces side.Elsewhere, Mathare United have installed Elias Otieno as their new goal-keeping coach as the Sportpesa Premier League season opener draws closer. The club confirmed that the Babadogo-born retired shot stopper will take up the duties with immediate effect, replacing Haggai Azande, who switched to rivals Tusker.&ldquo;Elias Otieno takes over from Haggai Azande as the new goalkeeping coach. The 34-year-old has previously served in the same capacity at Nairobi City Stars, Ushuru and now defunct Mahakama. Otieno, a Mysa graduate, will be tasked with ensuring that the trio of Wycliffe Kasaya, Levis Opiyo and Mark Kioko improve last season&rsquo;s clean sheet record,&rdquo;the post read. Mathare lost last season&rsquo;s first choice custodian Robert Mboya to Kariobangi Sharks.