The government of Kenya through the Sports Ministry have committed Sh2.7 billion to next year&rsquo;s Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) to be staged in the country.Sports Cabinet Secretary, Hassan Wario, said they have already released Sh200 million to the Local Organising Committee, whose first meeting will be held on Tuesday.&ldquo;Obviously we know how the government works. It will not release the whole amount immediately but rather we will channel half of the money in this financial year and release the last part in the next,&rdquo; said the official.Wario was speaking during a joint press conference between his ministry, Football Kenya Federation and Confederation African Federation delegation at his office. He added: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s fulfilling to hear from the Caf delegation that Chan is for Kenya and Chan will be held in Kenya. For now, we have to await the detailed report that will be released by the Caf officials, who inspected the venues so that we can fast-track what is required of us and hopefully, when they return in June, we will be at a better place.&rdquo;At the same time, Caf 1st vice president, Suketu Patel, who was part of the delegation to Kenya assured that Kenya will host the 2018 Chan Championship.His sentiments come in the wake of emerging reports that the event might be moved to Morocco due to Kenya&rsquo;s poor preparations for the event. &ldquo;Our job here is not to police Kenya or dictate. Our visit here is to inspect the venues chosen by FKF and assist the country to ensure they host a successful event next year. We therefore want to dispel rumours doing rounds that Kenya will not host the event. If anything, we have seen the extreme goodwill the government and the FKF have shown towards hosting the Chan Championships,&rdquo; he said. He added: &ldquo;We have visited all the five venues among them Nyayo Stadium, Kasarani, Kip Keino, Kenyatta Stadium (Machakos) and Kinuro (Meru) and we will be releasing a detailed report in 10 days on areas of concern. Really, it&rsquo;s upon Kenya now to fast-track what will be in the report.&rdquo;FKF president Nick Mwendwa said they have had good deliberations towards hosting the event.&ldquo;The delegation has done a detailed report on the five venues and we look forward to the report before we start working on the short comings.&rdquo;CAF executive member and former Tanzania Football Federation president, Leodger Tenga, who was also present, evaded questions over Caf&rsquo;s disciplinary proceeding against Kenya for participating in unsanctioned Cecafa event in 2015. He said: &ldquo;Please note that Kenya and Caf are totally two different entities and we can&rsquo;t mix the two. We will cross the bridge when we reach there.&rdquo;