Mama Ngina Kenyatta doesn&rsquo;t like the limelight. Not that she is shy. No. She just likes doing her thing away from the prying eyes of the media. The former first lady was in the limelight for more than 15 years when her husband Mzee Jomo Kenyatta ruled Kenya. After his death in 1978, the widow retreated to her palatial Ichaweri home in Gatundu, Kiambu, where she rules the roost.But her recent visit to Kabarak thrust her exactly where she does not like to be. Mama Ngina&rsquo;s Sunday, January 22 visit to retired President Daniel Moi was a surprise to many, that is why it ignited many tongues that have not stopped wagging two weeks later. The timing of the visit is what caused the razzmatazz as political pundits fell over each other trying to explain the agenda of the meeting.Moi has been ailing. He has a recurring knee problem. Was the President&rsquo;s mother visiting to cheer him up? That might have been one of the reasons. But it can&rsquo;t be the only reason. The 83-year-old Mama Ngina is known for her huge influence on her son Uhuru Kenyatta. What she says goes. Uhuru has no choice. Moi too, sways Uhuru&rsquo;s political decisions. In fact, it was he who introduced him to politics in 1997 as he kicked off a political grooming journey with the son of Kenya&rsquo;s founding father.The late Mark Too was persuaded to give up his nominated MP slot in 1997 to pave way for Uhuru. Kenya&rsquo;s fourth President cut his political teeth in Parliament without having to break a sweat on the campaign trail. Moi, his political surrogate father, handed him the seat on a silver platter. Uhuru&rsquo;s has always been a cloud with a silver lining. He was bred in State House Nairobi. In 2013, he returned to the seat of power as Kenya&rsquo;s CEO.His first presidential bid in 2002 courtesy of Mzee Moi was sabotaged by Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s win. In 2007, Uhuru watched his step carefully and supported President Kibaki in his second and last stab at the presidency. Moi started Uhuru&rsquo;s political journey when no one believed in him and therefore must continuously support him. He must finish what he started and that is the reason Mama Ngina had to visit Kabarak. She knows that Mzee Moi still holds sway in swathes of the Rift Valley. She also knows that Kanu&rsquo;s chairman Gideon Moi listens to his father&rsquo;s advice no matter how unviable it is.It didn&rsquo;t sit well with Uhuru&rsquo;s mother that Kanu seems to be gravitating towards NASA. Uhuru&rsquo;s call to Gideon late last year seems not to have borne tangible results. Although Gideon promised to work with him, Mama Ngina understands that promises alone cannot win her son a second term in the House on the Hill.Uhuru and Gideon are the best of friends. Their friendship goes back to their childhood days when they played on the manicured lawns of State House as their parents discussed the country&rsquo;s policies. Their bond is unbreakable.Were it not for the enmity between Gideon and Deputy President William Ruto, Moi&rsquo;s son would have no qualms about working with Uhuru just as he did in 2013. And now that the families&rsquo; living heads have met, it is only a matter of time before action is taken. Uhuru needs Gideon more than Gideon needs Uhuru &mdash; Gideon&rsquo;s wish is Uhuru&rsquo;s command. The son of Kenya&rsquo;s second president will most definitely demand that Jubilee steers clear of the Baringo senator seat. And Uhuru will most likely demand that Gideon fields candidates for all seats except president. Anything less than that is wishful thinking.