The Education ministry is exploring ways to cut off middlemen from textbook distribution.Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i yesterday said middlemen have driven textbooks distribution prices to increase by 25 per cent. &ldquo;The government has a stake in the Kenya Literature Bureau as one of the largest distributor of books. Jomo Kenyatta Foundation is also ours. Why do we need middlemen to distribute books to our schools?&rdquo;he asked.He spoke at Utawala Academy in Nairobi. Matiang&rsquo;i said his ministry will ensure resources are spent prudently. &ldquo;We will have to part ways with middlemen so that resources we save go towards extra curricula activities,&rdquo; he said.Matiang&rsquo;i said his ministry has allocated Sh50 billion to education this year.The CS also announced that teachers who supervised the national examinations, and who have not been paid, will receive their pay by the end of the week.Matiang&rsquo;i said he has held talks with the Kenya National Examinations Council chairman George Magoha with a view of paying them. &ldquo;There was a slight delay, but teachers will be paid by Friday, because we need to prepare for the new examination cycle,&rdquo; he said.A total of 577, 253 candidates sat the 2016 KCSE exam in 9,158 centres across the country.Matiang&rsquo;i also hit out at a section of officials calling for more consultations on the new school curriculum. &ldquo;We have been consulting since 2014, but per diem causes people to do strange things. Let us not waste time,&rdquo; he said.He said piloting is set to be done in selected schools, subject to approval by the Cabinet and the National Assembly before implementation in January next year. The CS said will continue visiting schools invited or not, adding he is &ldquo;not employed to read newspapers or please anyone&rdquo;.He urged the ministry officials to not only visit schools, but to experience the real situations in them.During the meeting, the CS announced Sh5 million grants to the school set to be used to repair leaking roofs and footpaths. He also warned teachers against allowing bullying, saying action will be taken against them after investigations.And as part of the reforms, the ministry is set to use the Unique Personal Identifier for allocating funds to schools beginning 2016-17 financial year.