While nearly every estate in the capital and nearby counties has been grappling with acute water shortage for close to two months, residents of Komarock and other Eastland areas have had to live with the problem and embrace it for years. “For a long time, people living in estates like Botela, Kayole, Komarock and Umoja have been having water shortages, even before the rationing started,” Umoja resident Ann Wambui said. When Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company published a schedule for the water rationing that took effect in January, residents in those estates were hardly alarmed, as some of them have not seen a drop from their taps for more than a year. Residents 'neglected' Rose Wairimu has been living in Komarock East estate since 2001 and she has never had the luxury of running water. “We don't know the difference between when there is water rationing and when there isn't,” she said. Wairimu, who has rental houses, has had to invest heavily in water supply to cover for the deficiencies of the county supply system. “I have tenants and to keep them, I have been buying the 1,000-litre water truck every two days for Sh1,500 each,” she said. Wairimu accuses the NCWSC of neglecting their estate. “They are a big joke and a let-down. After investing so much in buying water, they still brought me a bill of Sh40,000 late last year,” she said, adding that even the sewer system is poor and they manage it without any help from the company. Sometimes her houses go for months without tenants, since Nairobians like living where taps run. "It is usually a big loss to us landlords since tenants complain of especially how to manage a toilet when there is no water." Charity Mwangi, a mother of one and a tenant in Komarock, has had to factor in water expense in her budget. “Water here is like gold. We sometimes buy the 20-litre drum for Sh50 and each day, I use between four and five drums,” she said. More costly than rent Monicah Titus, who owns a school in the estate, says it has been a nightmare. “Sometimes the water expense exceeds rent,” she said. Her school, Lansta Academy, which goes up to standard three, has never had tap water. “We have not had water here for as long as I remember. Since I have to use the commodity, I have had to learn how to use it sparingly. The water I wash utensils with is what I use for the toilets.” Monicah buys between 12 and 15 drums on a daily basis. “It's draining,” she said. Jane Wangari, a mother of three, is in the same boat. “For more than one year, I have never seen water running from my taps. We don't know how bathing in a shower feels,” she said. Wangari says she doesn't know where the water she buys comes from but she has been using it for all her house chores, including cooking, since she has no choice. “I know it's risky health-wise, but what can I do?” she asked. Water rationing has been experienced in almost all estates in Nairobi due to scarcity of rains that have reduced water levels at Ndakaini dam, which is the main water source in Nairobi. The rationing will continue until April unless it rains before then. Only vital institutions have had uninterrupted water supply. These include hospitals, barracks, universities, airport, GSU headquarters, and a few others. NCWSC managing director Philip Gichuki said they expected dams to fill during the short rain season last year but it did not happen.