It may take between 15 and 20 years to have a stable local motor vehicle assembling industry, car importers yesterday said in the wake of proposed ban on secondhand cars. Industry and Trade Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed last Saturday said the government may consider the ban, in a renewed push to attract more investors into manufacturing. &ldquo;Over 10,000 secondhand vehicles come into our market every month. We want to make sure this does not happen in the long-term,&rdquo; Mohammed said. Locally assembled cars for nine months through September last year were 5,101 units, latest Kenya National Bureau of Statistics show, while in 2015 the number stood at 10,181.Car Importers Association of Kenya said local assemblers cannot meet the rising demand for motor vehicles in the near future.The importers said local assemblers must first satisfy local needs by assembling high quality yet cheaper units for middle-income earners. &ldquo;They should sell between Sh500,000 and Sh1.4 million with fully loaded equipment like foreign made cars,&rdquo; CIAK chairman Peter Otieno said on the phone yesterday. &ldquo;They should also know the demand for cars grows by 15 to 20 per cent annually.&rdquo; The association warned that the Kenya Revenue Authority will lose at least Sh70 billion in taxes annually if used cars are banned. The taxman gets an average of Sh500,000 (import duty alone) every car.France&rsquo;s PSA Group, the maker of Peugeot, on Saturday signed a contract to start assembling two models in Kenya &ndash; Peugeot 508 and 3008. German&rsquo;s Volkswagen began assembling cars in Thika last year. India&rsquo;s Ashok Leyland is also planning to set up an assembly plant in Kenya. The government has implied that imported secondhand cars are prone to accidents. However, Otieno dismissed the claims saying the administration is to blame for failing to build proper roads. He said imported vehicles are inspected by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. &ldquo;Our roads have potholes, we have unmarked roads and bumps; you cannot blame it on drivers. It (government&rsquo;s claims) means Kebs has been doing nothing. Taxpayers should not be made to carry this burden,&rdquo; Otieno said. Sales of new vehicles in Kenya fell by 30 per cent last year.