Panoptes was a hundred-eyed giant in Greek mythology. His name meant &lsquo;the-all-seeing-one&rdquo;. One day Zeus, who was the Greek god of the sky and ruler of the Olympian gods, was caught by his jealous wife fraternising. Zeus quickly turned his lover into a white heifer. However, his wife was not deceived. She demanded that he gives her the animal as a gift. She then appointed Panoptes as its guard. His eyes looked every way. Zeus&rsquo;s wife the goddess, gave him superhuman strength. So he never slept. He kept watch always.Is the Communications Authority our version of Panoptes?Just as in the Greek mythology, the CA has told us, &ldquo;We are protecting you&rdquo;. This was in defence of the industry storm triggered by their covert acquisition and installation of a Device Management System. Experts have confirmed that the DMS system piggybacks on mobile networks to remotely identify electronic devices and their users. We are also informed that it can collect voice and text data. Some industry leaders have argued this could be Panoptes&rsquo; way of always watching us, thus infringing on our privacy rights.In a classic Streisand effect response to suspicions of infringement on personal privacy, the CA has pointed out that &ldquo;every Kenyan cannot be a suspect&rdquo;. To break this down, they are simply saying, &ldquo;If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to worry about&rdquo;. In citing this, the position assumed by the state is that there are only two categories of people &mdash; evil and virtuous.But regardless of how virtuous we are, we all have curtains in our homes, passwords for our phones and doors on our bathrooms. This is because there is something quite disconcerting about someone mining around one&rsquo;s intellectual territory and personal space without your permission, and most certainly without your knowledge. This unnerving realisation is exacerbated if the perpetrator is the state. The beauty of the market is that one can sign up for an opt-out clause in privacy policies. You can choose what to share or to reveal, to whom and when. However, the state can and has been quite coercively invasive.The premium we place on privacy is not of recent vintage. Aristotle once said &ldquo;the wise man does not needlessly expose himself to danger, since there are a few things for which he cares sufficiently&rdquo;. But as we shall soon see, we have increasingly become very fickle in the things we deeply cherish. Insidiously, we have become reckless in guarding our privacy.Not too long ago, philandering men could successfully dispose of any evidence of purchase of flowers, wine or jewellery. But those days are long gone. What has, however, remained constant are the behaviour patterns. And unfortunately, the credit cards, M-Pesa and other online payments are all terrible at keeping secrets.Those of us that consider ourselves of a higher moral standing are also not safe in cyberspace. Our social, financial and even sexual interactions are largely transacted online. Every day, we post pictures of ourselves and our cats; we sign up on dating sites; fill out online job application forms and happily log on to free public Wi-Fi. One bankable fact is that, like the Panopticon, someone somewhere always has eyes on you.Therefore, the manner in which we voluntarily hand over our personal information in cyberspace begs this salient question: Is this how invaluable we price our privacy? Or are we simply this ignorant? The naivety of our comprehension of the amount of personal information available on the Web and particularly the ease with which it can be mined, is staggering. Our complacent surrender has given a free pass to those who want to snoop on us, simply because they know where to look. You have been forever inventoried.The elephant in the room should, therefore, be to quickly disabuse the &lsquo;privacy advocate&rsquo; role usurped by the big boys in the industry, and some career activists, hypocritically crusading for our privacy rights. However, their outrage at this &lsquo;injustice&rsquo; is a farce. And what&rsquo;s worse is that they know it. But do you?Brace yourself for the shock. Privacy is dead and it died a long time ago. And what&rsquo;s more, we killed it without even knowing it. We buried it at the onset of the Information Age. The advancement of information technology has been a double edged sword. While it has increased productivity, efficiency and economic growth, this has not come without a price.As far back as 1999, the then CEO of Sun Microsystems, Scott McNealy, told the world, &ldquo;You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it.&rdquo; This was a reaffirmation of what Murray Rothbard had told us in Ethics of Liberty, that, &ldquo;There is no such thing as a right to privacy except the right to protect one&rsquo;s property from invasion&rdquo;.So where do we go from here? Can we resuscitate privacy?Whatever we decide to do, there is one unchanging hard fact. Like words, once our information is out there, there is no getting it back. We cannot put the genie back in the bottle.I propose two choices. One, we could accept the reality that privacy is dead and as Aristotle told us, it&rsquo;s not worth killing ourselves over it. So accept and move on. Two, continue to fight for privacy. By picking the second choice, we must appreciate that it will be a renegotiation of the boundaries of privacy. We must accept the inevitable conflation of privacy and transparency. Where does one stop and the other begin?To establish these boundaries, we should be guided by the true north axiom that &ldquo;anything you demand to know from me is something I do not want to tell you&rdquo;. However, this sword should cut both ways because what is good for the goose should also be good for the gander.This may, very well, be an imperfect solution, but it is a solution nevertheless.So take Aristotle, Rothbard and McNealy&rsquo;s advice and get over it. Panoptes was a hundred-eyed giant in Greek mythology. His name meant &lsquo;the-all-seeing-one&rdquo;. One day Zeus, who was the Greek god of the sky and ruler of the Olympian gods, was caught by his jealous wife fraternising. Zeus quickly turned his lover into a white heifer. However, his wife was not deceived. She demanded that he gives her the animal as a gift. She then appointed Panoptes as its guard. His eyes looked every way. Zeus&rsquo;s wife the goddess, gave him superhuman strength. So he never slept. He kept watch always.Is the Communications Authority our version of Panoptes?Just like in the Greek mythology, the CA has told us, &ldquo;We are protecting you&rdquo;. This was in defense to the industry storm triggered by their covert acquisition and installation of a Device Management System. Experts have confirmed that the DMS system piggybacks on mobile networks, to remotely identify electronic devices and their users. We are also informed that it can collect voice and text data. Some industry leaders have argued this could be Panoptes way of always keeping watch over us, thus infringing on our privacy rights. In a classic Streisand effect response to suspicions of infringement on personal privacy, the CA has pointed out that "every Kenyan cannot be a suspect&rdquo;. To break this down, they are simply saying, &ldquo;If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to worry about&rdquo;. In citing this, the position assumed by the state is that there are only two categories of people &mdash; evil and virtuous.But regardless of how virtuous we are, we all have curtains in our homes, passwords for our phones and doors on our bathrooms. This is because there is something quite disconcerting about someone mining around one&rsquo;s intellectual territory and personal space without your permission, and most certainly without your knowledge. This unnerving realisation is exacerbated if the perpetrator is the state. The beauty of the market is that one can sign up for an opt-out clause in privacy policies. You can choose what to share or to reveal, to whom and when. However, the state can and has been quite coercively invasive. The premium we place on privacy is not of recent vintage. Aristotle once said &ldquo;the wise man does not needlessly expose himself to danger, since there are a few things for which he cares sufficiently&rdquo;. But as we shall soon see, we have increasingly become very fickle in the things we deeply cherish. Insidiously, we have become reckless in guarding our privacy. Not too long ago, philandering men could successfully dispose of any evidence of purchase of flowers, wine or jewelry. But those days are long gone. What has, however, remained as a constant is the behaviour. And unfortunately, the credit cards, M-Pesa and other online payments are all terrible at keeping secrets. Those of us that consider ourselves of a higher moral standing, are also not safe in cyberspace. Our social, financial and even sexual interactions are largely transacted online. Every day, we post pictures of ourselves and our cats; we sign up on dating sites; fill out online job application forms and happily log on to free public Wi-Fi. One bankable fact is that, like the Panopticon, someone somewhere always has eyes on you. Therefore, the manner in which we voluntarily hand over our personal information in cyberspace begs this salient question: Is this how invaluable we price our privacy? Or are we simply this ignorant? The naivety of our comprehension of the amount of personal information available on the Web and particularly the ease with which it can be mined, is staggering. Our complacent surrender has given a free pass to those who want to snoop on us, simply because they know where to look. You have been forever inventoried.The elephant in the room should, therefore, be to quickly disabuse the &lsquo;privacy advocate&rsquo; role usurped by the big boys in the industry, and some career activists, hypocritically crusading for our privacy rights. However, their outrage at this &lsquo;injustice&rsquo; is a farce. And what&rsquo;s worse is that they know it. But do you?Brace yourself for the shock. Privacy is dead and it died a long time ago. And what&rsquo;s more, we killed it without even knowing it. We buried it at the onset of the information age. The advancement of information technology has been a double edged sword. While it has increased productivity, efficiency and economic growth, this has not come without a price. As far back as 1999, the then CEO of Sun Microsystems Scott McNealy told the world, &ldquo;You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it.&rdquo; This was a reaffirmation of what Murray Rothbard had told us in Ethics of Liberty. That &ldquo;there is no such thing as a right to privacy except the right to protect one&rsquo;s property from invasion&rdquo;.So where do we go from here? Can we resuscitate privacy?Whatever we decide to do, there is one unchanging hard fact. Like words, once our information is out there, there is no getting it back. We cannot put the genie back in the bottle. I propose two choices. One, we could accept the reality that privacy is dead and as Aristotle told us, not worth killing ourselves over it. So accept and move on. Or two, continue to fight for privacy. By picking the second choice, we must appreciate that it will be a renegotiation of the boundaries of privacy. We must accept the inevitable conflation of privacy and transparency. Where does one stop and the other begin? To establish these boundaries, we should be guided by the true north axiom that "anything you demand to know from me is something I do not want to tell you". However, this sword should cut both ways because what is good for the goose should also be good for the gander. This may, very well, be an imperfect solution but it is a solution nevertheless. So take Aristotle&rsquo;s, Rothbard&rsquo;s and McNealy&rsquo;s advice and get over it. He who does not move does not notice his chains &ndash; R. Luxemburg.The writer is a Political Economist.