If you think you can endanger the lives of passengers and get away with it, think again. This message could not have been clearer than when the picture of a bus on the railway line and a video of a matatu being driven on the wrong side of the road went viral on social media. The revulsion and uproar were a clear indication that road users are no longer silent when it comes to their safety.Road safety is one of the challenges Kenya grapples with. Some 3,000 lives are lost annually to road crashes, while 30,000 people are partially or permanently maimed. The WHO&rsquo;s Global Status Report on Road Safety 2015 shows that road injuries remain the leading cause of death among those aged between 15 and 29, claiming 1.25 million lives globally every year.According to this report, 75 per cent of road accidents are a result of reckless driving. In Kenya, statistics show that 89 per cent of the accidents reported since January were a result of human error. They include, but are not limited to, speeding, drink-driving, crossing at undesignated points and walking around while intoxicated. This can come to an end, if road users change their behaviour.The human suffering caused by road accidents is huge &mdash; for every victim there are family, friends, and communities who must cope with the physical, psychological and economic consequences of the death, injury or disability of a loved one. Crash survivors and their families must cope with the painful and often long-term consequences of injury, disability and rehabilitation. Road accidents significantly strain the health provisions.Public participation in road safety is vital because by working together, safety becomes a shared responsibility. Whilst the NTSA is doing its part in ensuring our roads are safe, the public must get involved. Technology plays a crucial role in enhancing road safety and it is for that reason that the NTSA developed a user-friendly app that the public can use to report incidents on our roads.Through the NTSA App, road users have now been empowered to directly communicate with the authority and report on speeding, reckless driving, bribery and even harassment while using public service vehicles. The public can also use the app to verify the status of driving licences and ask questions on how to access NTSA services.Since it was rolled out three months ago, we have received more than 30,000 cases from across the country. The reports range from mishandling of passengers, overcharging by PSVs, excess passengers, reckless driving, illegal PSVs, speeding, overlapping, obstruction and drivers without valid licences, among others. To ensure the authenticity and accuracy of the information we receive, the app has an image upload feature that allows road users to submit pictures of the incident. With these we have managed to get the details of the vehicles and taken necessary actions.Despite the short period of time it has been in use, the app has resulted in behaviour change among some motorists. Drivers are now aware their actions could easily be reported to NTSA by anyone on the road. This joint collaboration with the public will eventually bear more fruit and lead to safer roads.So long as there is no respect for the rule of law on the roads, they will remain unsafe. It is important for all road users to be aware of the dangers of reckless driving and not to endorse it through their own conduct.Deputy director communications, NTSA