Tanzania's billionaire oil dealer, Ally Edha Awadh, has bid for the retail business of Kenya's Hashi Energy for an undisclosed amount. The deal is The Competition Authority of Kenya, the state agency that protects consumers from unfair and misleading market conduct, said it has approved the proposed transaction by Tanzanian petroleum products distributor Lake Oil, a firm Awadh founded in 2006. &ldquo;Pursuant to the provisions of section 46 (6) (a) (ii) of the Competition Act, 2010, it is notified for general information that the Competition Authority of Kenya has authorised the proposed acquisition of the retail petroleum business of Hashi Energy Limited by Lake Oil Limited,&rdquo; CAK director-general Francis Wang'ombe said in a gazette notice last week. CAK said the two firms made the application for the acquisition on January 25 but did not divulge the transaction details. Awadh was listed by Forbes among 10 young Africans to watch in 2014. He founded the company at the age of 23, after obtaining a licence from the Tanzanian government to import and market petroleum products in the domestic market. His firm is part of the conglomerate Lake Group, which has operations across East and Central Africa. Lake Group now ranks among the top-five largest distributors of petroleum products in Tanzania and exports to neighbouring Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo. The planned acquisition will extend the company's physical presence in the 12 countries that Hashi Energy has operations. These include Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania, Zambia, Southern Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Hashi Energy was founded in 1991 and deals in marketing, importation and distribution of petroleum products. It had an overall market share of 6.3 per cent in the country in September, according to statistics by the Petroleum Institute of East Africa. The firm is particularly strong in the supply of Liquified Petroleum Gas, coming second after market leader Total with a market share of 22.2 per cent. It holds a market share of 3.7 per cent in the petroleum sales market and 2.4 per cent in the lubricants market. Hashi inked a lucrative Sh14.18 billion ($140 million) partnership deal with a Dubai family-owned business group SS Lootah International, which has ventures in different industry sectors globally. The deal involved the supply of food and petrol, logistics and infrastructure in East and Central Africa. Under the agreement, the two firms set out to collaborate to supply the United Nations mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo with petroleum products, trucks for logistics, food and financing facilities.