Taita Taveta Senator Dan Mwazo has indicated he will join Jubilee party after Mass Voter Registration is over."The coalition that registers the most voted is the one I will join," he said on Monday.He said on Monday that he will join the team that registers more voters across the country in the exercise that ends February 14.The Senator, who was elected on an ODM ticket, also declared interest in the governor's position in the August 8 polls."I will announce the party I will run with in my governorship bid once Mass Voter Registration is over six days from now. By August 8 I will be your governor. I will officially come to launch my bid and you shall see a Tsunami here," he said.More on this: Has Taita Taveta Senator Dan Mwazo deserted Raila?The Senator was speaking in Voi where DP William Ruto was meeting Jubilee aspirants."Today the Deputy President picked me with a chopper from my home at Kasighau. I have accompanied him here because he has recognised my as the area Senator," he said.Mwazo showered the Jubilee administration with praise, while criticising ODM leader Raila Odinga for not inviting him at meetings whenever he tours the county."The Jubilee government has managed to tarmac the Voi-Taveta road that the Kenyatta, Moi and Kibaki administrations failed to. Let us tell our people the truth," he said.Read: We have failed as leaders- Senator Dan MwazoMwazo accompanied Ruto to four other meetings in Kilifi county before he starts his two-day our of Taita Taveta county."[Ruto] has been looking for me for the last two weeks. Yesterday he called me to make sure I attend today's meeting. We want the Mzima springs water supplied to Taita Taveta University, Kasighau and other parts of the county," the Senator said.Mwazo asked the government to tarmac the Bura-Mgange-Werugha-Mbale-Msau-Shelemba road, the Voi-Sagalla road, and the Maungu Kasighau road.&ldquo;Do good and good will follow you. You scratch my back I scratch yours,&rdquo; Mwazo told Ruto.&nbsp;Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro said that there were all indications that Mwazo will join Jubilee."If the Jubilee zones have managed to register more voters than NASA for the last 24 days since the exercise began, they will not fail in the next six days. I am sure Mwazo will join our team,&rdquo; he said.&nbsp;The Deputy President asked Taita Taveta residents to come out en-masse and register as voters.&nbsp;"Poor leaders are chosen by those who do not vote. Register in large numbers and vote for us in this year&rsquo;s elections. We want to be with you in the government," said Ruto.&nbsp;On human-wildlife conflict in the region, Ruto said that the government has set aside Sh320 million for an electric fence to stop elephants from straying out of the Tsavo National Park into villages.He said the Mzima 2 pipeline contract has already been awarded and by April, the works to supply water to Taita Taveta and other Coast counties will start.&nbsp;Others who accompanied Ruto are Taveta MP Naomi Shaban, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko.The leaders welcomed Mwazo to join the Jubillee coalition.The Senator has been silent on ODM matters since he was elected on March 4, 2013.Mwazo has not attended Raila's meetings in the county but has been to all President Uhuru Kenyatta's functions.