NASA can only be assured of the majority of votes from the Luhya community if Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi is named the presidential flagbearer, two Kakamega senate hopefuls and two MCAs have said.Senate aspirants Cleophas Malala and Alex Mukabwa and MCAs Alex Khamasi and Titus Kwomah said Luhyas form the largest vote bloc in the opposition and will not accept to play flower girls. &ldquo;It is almost an accepted fact that if Mudavadi is not the candidate, the Western bloc may be scattered. There could be massive apathy and also an opportunity for Jubilee to make quick harvests. There is palpable fatigue among the Luhya vote bloc after [ODM leader Raila] Odinga losing twice,&rdquo; Malala said.He said Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s influence among the Luhya will also help the opposition ensure victory. Malala urged Raila to back Mudavadi&rsquo;s bid. Mukabwa said Mudavadi is likeable and has goodwill across the country. He said given the backing Mudavadi has among Luhyas across the counties, he only needs to turn the goodwill into votes.&ldquo;He may not be the most popular candidate compared to Raila, but he is by far the most acceptable in as far as harvesting votes from enemy territory goes. The only way to beat Jubilee is by reducing their support base and Mudavadi can do this,&rdquo; Mukabwa said.He added, &ldquo;Mudavadi cuts the figure of innocence, he is not threatening, he is sober and focussed.&rdquo;Khamasi said Mudavadi has the requisite experience to lead Kenya, having served as a Cabinet minister, Vice President and deputy Prime Minister. The NASA co-principals have appointed a high-level 12-member National Coordinating Committee to give recommendations on how to pick the presidential flagbearer. Some NASA followers have suggested the committee decide on the candidate because all four parties have three representatives each.Raila, Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Wetang&rsquo;ula are all eyeing the NASA ticket, with all of them saying they are the best candidate.Analysts have said Jubilee will be given a run for its money if NASA remains united.i&rsquo;ve not abandoned nasaOn Tuesday, Kalonzo denied claims he is likely to abandon NASA. He said Jubilee agents could be behind the &ldquo;malice&rdquo;.Kalonzo was responding to an article by the Daily Nation that said he might turn his back on the opposition and go it alone in August.&ldquo;Nobody will stop me from seeking the flagbearer seat,&rdquo; he told the media in Kisii town, adding he cannot be sold to the highest bidder.&ldquo;I have no apologies to make for saying that I will seek the NASA presidential ticket. Please let us remain focussed.&rdquo; The Wiper leader said he would not have attended the first meeting of NASA leaders in Bomet county had he been scheming to leave the alliance.&ldquo;Some of the people propagating this lie may be agents who want to cause trouble,&rdquo; he said.Kalonzo said, &ldquo;My legs cannot be tied because I am not a Kamba leader.&rdquo;&ldquo;We will expose you for who you are. If anybody thinks they can tie me and sell me, they are mistaken. I am a national leader. We must make it clear. This is very misleading.&rdquo; The Nation article said Kalonzo&rsquo;s allies are worried he will run on the Wiper ticket.