Homeboyz centre Oscar Ayodi may miss the remaining six legs of the World Sevens Series owing to re-current knee injury.Ayodi has already missed the first four legs of the world series with the same issue and the player has to undergo a second surgery, which will rule him out for the entire season.Speaking over the weekend, team manager Eric Ogweno, said they will not take his chances with his knee. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a worry when you have a recurring knee injury and the best thing would to be for him to undergo a second surgery and correct the problem and hopefully come back stronger for next season,&rdquo; added Ogweno.Ayodi has played limited minutes for the Homeboyz this season. He played against Quins last month in the Kenya Cup, where he scored one try and assisted on another; and on Saturday, he was part of the Homeboyz side that ended KCB unbeaten run in the Kenya Cup. Ayodi played a key role last season as Kenya bagged their maiden win on the world series by winning the Singapore leg of the world series after beating Fiji 30-7 in April. He has also led in various statistics on the world series in terms of ball carries, line breaks and tackles made. The Kenya Sevens started a three-day training camp on Sunday and will end on Wednesday with the naming of the team to Las Vegas on Thursday.Elsewhere, Homeboyz RFC ended KCB 11-match unbeaten run in the Kenya Cup with a superb 33-24 victory at the Lions Den in Ruaraka. The Deejays took the lead in the second minute when burly number 8 Steve &lsquo;Security&rsquo; Otieno barged over the line from a rolling maul. Kelvin Masai kicked over the conversion to give his side an early 7-0 lead.KCB replied immediately courtesy of Darwin Mukidza, following good interplay with the backs to touch down at the corner. He converted his own try to tie the match at 7-7. The match was being played at frenetic pace with big hits on both sides and Masai capitalised on an error from the bankers from the back scrum to feed Keith Wasike to score. Masai then made no mistake with the conversion to give his side 14-7 lead. Homeboyz dominated possession ad territory but failed to covert that into points against the run of play. Mukidza scored his second try which he duly converted to give to tie the match at 14-14.The try did not dampen the deejays and winger Collins Shikoli showed the KCB defence a clean pair of heels to touch down at the corner. Masai no mistake with the conversion to lead 21-14. KCB piled pressure on the visitors and Peter Kilonzo touched down with Mukidza missing the conversion for a 21-19 lead.On resumption, a half time pep talk from KCB coach Curtis Olago did the trick for the bankers with flanker Kilonzo scoring his second try to give the bankers 24-21 lead. The deejays upped the ante, making the bankers dance to their beat. They dominated play, retaking the lead through former KCB player Oscar Ayodi. Masai converted before signing off from Ruaraka in style through Augustine Lugonzo&rsquo;s try at the death.In other results Impala edged Mwamba 40-33, champions Kabras beat Strathmore Leos 35-17 in Kakamega and Quins edged Nakuru 33-17 at the RFUEA ground. Nondies beat Western Bulls 30-18 at Jamhuri Park as Mean machine beat Blak Blad 16-10 for their first win of the season.