One of nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony&rsquo;s fondest childhood memories is of former President Daniel Moi climbing trees to pick fruits for her.The young Moi lived with Kittony&rsquo;s family for many years, and was said to have been and active and very agile, scaling up branches with ease. And when he eventually got married to Lena, Kittony went to live with the young couple. Kittony had a lot of fun growing up, but experienced unbearable anguish when her sister Esther vanished. She has never been traced to this day.&ldquo;Esther was a brilliant second year student at Makerere University. She disappeared in circumstances that have never been resolved,&rdquo; she recalled in an interview yesterday.&ldquo;My late mother was perturbed. All her life she wanted to know before she died what had happened to Esther. It was during Idi Amin&rsquo;s regime. I went to New York trying to get the United Nations to help, all in vain. She just went like the wind.&rdquo;After more than five decades rooting for women&rsquo;s rights and politics, Zipporah has finally called it quits.Known for her long stint as the chairperson of the Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation, and more recently as a nominated senator, Kittony recently announced that she was leaving active political life to retire to her farm in Kitale.And thus marked the end of an era.Born in Baringo district &ldquo;in the early forties&rdquo; Kittony considers herself more privileged than the girls she grew up with because she got to go to school.Kittony joined a school in Kapsabet for intermediate studies (standard five) because there was no girls school in Baringo then. However, when Kapropita Girls High School was opened in her home district, all the girls from Baringo were asked to leave Kapsabet and enroll in the new school. &ldquo;I cried the whole night because I did not want to leave Kapsabet and go to Kapropita. Part of the reason was that to go to Kapsabet from Baringo, we had to travel through Elgeyo Marakwet and Eldoret town which was an eye-opener and a good experience. Going to Kapropita meant that we would just remain close to home,&rdquo; she said.She later trained as a teacher and taught in Baringo in 1961 and 1962, before getting married. She moved with her new family to Kericho where her husband worked at Kabianga Tea Company. Her two eldest children were born there, where she landed a job with the Family Planning Association of Kenya.In 1970 they moved to Nairobi where she got a job at the World Assembly of Youth.&ldquo;For the six years that I worked there, I got the opportunity to traverse the world and this really opened my mind,&rdquo; she said. In 1976, they bought a farm in Kitale, which remains their home to this day. In Kitale she joined the Royal Agricultural Society and became the first woman to be elected chairperson.&ldquo;When I came to Nairobi to attend the ASK Council, the committee made up of White settlers was shocked to see a black woman. One of them said, &lsquo;Why did Kitale make such a mistake?&rsquo;. But with time they came to appreciate the hard work I put in to grow the society,&rdquo; Kittony said. Becoming an advocate for women&rsquo;s rights came naturally. She pushed for representation and eradication of female genital mutilation.&ldquo;I grew up in a family of nine sisters and three brothers. We shared our chores equally and did not see any discrimination in my home. The girls felt just as empowered as the boys,&rdquo; she recalls. Kittony served for 13 years as the chairperson of Trans Nzoia branch of Maendeleo ya Wanawake, and later as the national chairman for another 11 years. And then she was nominated an MP in the eighth Parliament, and a Senator in the current parliament. Kittony is among the few politicians who have remained loyal to their parties and has remained a Kanu member from the time she joined active politics.&ldquo;Politics has been in my blood because I grew up seeing the second President (Moi) in my home and he inspired me. When I was nominated to Parliament, it gave me a chance to champion women&rsquo;s rights. Although we did not attain the one-third gender rule, I am happy to see more women in elective positions today,&rdquo; she said.Her biggest inspiration? No doubt, former President Moi. &ldquo;What I remember most about living with Moi was that he was a prayerful person,&rdquo; she said.Kittony is preparing to write her memoirs on the journey of women.