Nairobi Gymkhana booked a place in the last four of the 2017 Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 tournament after edging out Ruaraka by 15 runs.After being restricted to to 125 for 7, the home team bowled out Ruaraka for 107 in 18.5 overs to register their sixth win of the campaign hence sailed through to their second successive semi-finals.Gymkhana&rsquo;s Rushabh Patel and Karan Kaul celebrated their selection into the the national team squad for the decisive ICC World Cricket League Championship qualifier against Nepal next week in style as they led from the front with the bat. Rushabh topped the inning with 37 with skipper Kaul adding on 22. In reply, Ruaraka struggled to build up any meaningful stands and ended up falling 15 runs short.Tushar Vaghani was the top scorer with 42 from 22 balls as Nairobi Gymkhana spinners choked them by claiming wickets at regular intervals. Raj Savala, Keval Patel and Peterson Kamau&mdash;all picked two wickets each to bowl out their guests for 107 with seven balls to play. At Sikh Union, visitors Kenya Kongonis registered their fourth win when they beat troubled-redden Sikh Union by nine wickets.From 11 matches, Kongonis have only won three and are 10 points behind fourth-placed Nairobi Ghymkhana. Despite Sikh Union fielding their second string side, Kongonis had to fight until the last over to surpass Sikh Union&rsquo;s 120 for 4. Angad Kholi top-scored with an unbeaten 51 runs. Kholi and Chris Childs put on an unbeaten second-wicket stand of 86 runs to see Kongonis through to victory with the first ball of the last over.Kholi faced 42 balls which yielded two sixes and six boundaries while Childs scored 37 from 43 balls with only two boundaries. The two came up together after they had lost Emmanuel Opura for 22 from 25 balls. Earlier, Paramveer Singh scored 51 from 57 balls and was assisted by Rajiv Sutaria (26) and Sukhdeep Singh (24) to lead his side to 120.Sikh Union lost their first two wickets for seven runs before Paramveer and Sutaria lifted them to 44. After Surataria was bowled out by Tony Ochieng, Paramveer and Sukhdeep got the scores to 84 in a 40-run stand. Paramveer was the last wicket to fall when he was run out on the last ball of the inning having hit four boundaries. Martin Okoth was Kongonis&rsquo; outstanding bowler with 2 for 9 from three overs.