Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma has dismissed allegations he has been sabotaging ODM&rsquo;s mass voter registration mobilisation.Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga and Nyando MP Fred Outa accused Ranguma of interfering with the drive. The ODM leaders want the party&rsquo;s national office to probe Ranguma over the &ldquo;urgent&rdquo; matter.ODM had formed a committee to spearhead voter registration in Nyanza. Ranguma was mandated to chair the committee and Ruth Odinga to coordinate. However, Nyong&rsquo;o who is a committee member, said Ranguma has never convened a meeting to discuss progress of the drive.The senator said a group linked to the governor has been disrupting ID registration organised by the committee at Apoko Primary School and Nyabondo High School in Nyakach. &ldquo;The activities by people calling themselves friends of Ranguma and by him are purely sabotaging the programmes of the committee,&rdquo; he said. He said Ranguma has been conducting a parallel exercise, confusing people and scuttling programmes set by the party.But Ranguma termed the accusations &ldquo;baseless and an unnecessary diversion of voter mobilisation&rdquo;.The governor said politicians should focus on how best ODM leader Raila Odinga can win presidency, not engage in such politics.Calls for unityRanguma said he has initiated elaborate strategies in 35 wards within the seven subcounties in Kisumu to ensure all eligible voters are listed.The governor said all leaders must unite and focus their attention on ensuring every potential voter registers before next Tuesday&rsquo;s deadline. &ldquo;We are in a critical stage of voter registration and we must stop wasting time fighting about small local politics,&rdquo; Ranguma said. He said he has facilitated ODM officials them to conduct door-to-door voter campaigns.Target 177,738 new votersRanguma said he has also met area administrators, IEBC officials, religious leaders, civil society, community health workers and the Registrar of Persons to intensify listing. &ldquo;I have established a voter registration hotline number 0733 999 069,&rdquo; he said. The aim is to ensure more voters are registered and vulnerable groups are not locked out of polls.He said a team of 10 boda boda riders, 10 foot soldiers and 35 vehicles have been deployed across the county to mobilise eligible voters.Ranguma said he has toured Muhoroni, Kisumu Central, Kisumu West, Kisumu East, Nyakach, Nyando and Seme subcounties.He said the low voter turnout has been attributed to lack of IDs, making it hard to achieve the 177,738 target of new voters in Kisumu.Nyong&rsquo;o and Ruth want to unseat Ranguma, while Outa seeks to replace Nyong&rsquo;o in the Senate.