Fourth placed Homeboyz face fifth Mwamba in what will be an entertaining Kenya Cup clash at the Jamhuri Park Showground today at 4pm.The deejays will be returning to action after the laying to rest of former Under 19 international and prop Andrew Wekesa last weekend. Before the break, the Deejays were in superb form dispatching high flying Quins 15-10 and thrashing Impala 41-13. Paul Murunga's charges will be hoping to make it three successive wins against a tricky Mwamba outfit who registered a 24-7 win over Mean Machine last week and a 26-10 victory over Western Bulls a fortnight ago. Murunga expects today's match to be explosive and has urged his boys to look to maintain consistency.&ldquo;Mwamba have been in good form, so we cannot underate them. We want to keep up the good form and get to the playoffs,&rdquo; Murunga said. He has made three changes to the match day squad with prop Thomas Okidia coming in for Elisha Okello, Keith Wasike replacing Brian Otieno. Cyprian Kuto is on the left wing taking over from Alvin Otieno. Homeboyz have 27 points with Mwamba one point behind.Murunga said the side have improved their forward play and expects the match to be won upfront.&ldquo;Our forwards have really stepped up. You look at guys like Emmanuel Mavala they have stepped up the physicality with Andrew Chogo and Phillip Ikambili. If we can get front foot ball from the forwards and with the quality backs we have then we can carry the day," added Mavala. On their part Mwamba will bank on former Kenya Sevens skipper Humphrey Kayange who has nine tries to his credit this season with Steve Sikuta, and Clyde Muhando adding ballast to the forward pack. George Mutuku, Brad Owako and George Odhiambo will be the key actors in the backs. Joint leaders KCB and Quins have easy fixtures to negotiate this weekend. The bankers have a date with minnows Blak Blad at the home club while Quins welcome Western Bulls to the RFUEA ground. Champions Kabras will be hoping to bounce back from a two game losing skid when thy host Nondies at the Kakamega showground while Nakuru meet struggling Strathmore Leos as Impala host Mean Machine at the Impala club.