Kwale Senator Boy Juma Boy is dead.He died yesterday at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi after a short illness. Early last week, Boy is said to have been admitted at a Mombasa hospital unconscious, before he was flown to Nairobi for further treatment.He was elected Kwale senator in 2013 on the ODM ticket after trouncing Ambassador Chirau Mwakwere with 60,886 votes against 41,753. Boy will be buried today in Vanga village, Lungalunga constituency. He was a master storyteller who drew everyone&rsquo;s attention when he grabbed a microphone, whether in public rallies or at the Senate.His speeches, mostly delivered in flawless Kiswahili, were punctuated by wild applauses. Boy ventured into politics in 1983, when he replaced his father Juma Boy Snr as Kwale Central MP. Boy&rsquo;s father was campaigning to retain his seat, when he suddenly fell sick and died. He had represented the constituency since 1974.Senator Boy retained his seat in the 1988 and 1992 general elections, but lost in 1997. He also lost in 2002 and did not vie in 2007. Boy has been a loyal supporter of the opposition and a humble leader. He did not spare anyone who disrespected opposition chief Raila Odinga. He told off leaders and the Jubilee government over development in Kwale, saying the government&rsquo;s interest has been taking over people&rsquo;s land and resources.Boy recently shared a podium with President Uhuru Kenyatta at Kikoneni Primary School in Kwale during the launch of a water project, but did not criticise the Jubilee administration. This was perceived as a show of respect and humbleness, compared with other leaders.The senator stood for what he believed in and told the voters the truth about his mandate whenever they questioned why he spent a lot of time in Nairobi after being elected.&ldquo;My work is ensuring that county governments get enough money. More than Sh16 billion has been brought to Kwale since 2013,&rdquo; Boy said in a baraza at Lungalunga recently.Youths had asked him why he only returned when the election approached. Boy said he represented people in Lungalunga, Matuga, Kinango and Msambweni constituencies and his job description was to ensure the county has money and residents get services.President Uhuru Kenyatta sent a message of condolence to family, relatives and the people of Kwale. He said Boy was an astute politician who will always be remembered.