Economists have said the move by the National Treasury to raise tax revenue forecast for the financial year ending in June 2017 was slightly too optimistic.They indicated there was evidence economic growth, estimated at 5.9 per cent in 2016, was losing momentum.The Treasury raised the tax revenue forecast for this fiscal year by 8.7 per cent as efforts to boost collection start to pay off, officials said.The government on Thursday said it expected ordinary tax revenue of Sh1.5 trillion, up from its initial projection of Sh1.38 trillion last June.Razia Khan, head of research for Africa at Standard Chartered in London, said the higher revenue forecast was unexpected. &ldquo;We are surprised by the increase in revenue collection for the current fiscal year, given our expectation (of) some slowing of economic momentum,&rdquo; she said. Treasury Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge told Reuters the upward revision followed better-than-expected collection in the seven months to January. He said growth in revenues had slowed in the last two fiscal years, but collection problems were now being overcome.&ldquo;This trend in the actual collection through January 2017 is being reversed. Indeed we project that in 2016-17, ordinary revenue is poised to grow at an impressive 18.4 per cent,&rdquo; Thugge said.He said the government&rsquo;s forecast of a 13 per cent jump in revenue collection in the financial year starting in July, to Sh1.704 trillion, was cautious and in line with average annual revenue growth for the last six years of 14.4 per cent.The Kenya Revenue Authority has been carrying out reforms to ensure tax compliance and seal loopholes used by tax evaders, officials said. Kenyans go to the polls on August 8, when President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to run for a second and final five-year term against his main rival, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Odinga will, however, battle it out with three other presidential hopefuls for the National Super Alliance&rsquo;s ticket.The International Monetary Fund expects the general election to weigh on economic growth, as investors take a wait-and-see attitude. A wave of ethnic violence followed a disputed presidential election in December 2007. Odinga disputed the outcome of the last vote, in 2013, but the result was upheld by the Supreme Court. The global financial institution, IMF, expects economic growth to slow this year. The Central Bank has a 2017 growth forecast of 5.7 per cent.