Project X proved that clandestine meet-ups, mystery code words and technological aids are all ways that teenagers communicate with one another to stay off their parents' vigilant radar.The event was outed when a concerned parent found the poster in her child's phone and proceeded to share it online, asking what it was about. It created a lot of outcry and condemnation from the public. But the truth was, that was just one of the many events that had taken place where kids met, had a good time, messed around and went back home. The parents were none the wiser.The teenagers still have these kind of private house parties but the circles are kept small and intimate. They communicate via apps like Telegram where the administrator of the channel can detect if someone has taken a screenshot of the conversations.With the help of technology - and other factors, the age that teenagers are engaging in sexual activity is getting younger by each phone upgrade or emergence of a new exciting app.The innocence once attributed to 13 year old is long gone with the proverbial romp in the hay.Read: Law proposes reduction of consensual sex age from 18 to 16According to the consumer insight WAKENYA report, Kenyans are extremely sexually active. Many may idealise sex as an act of adult maturity, but 7 out of 10 Kenyan women confess to having sex under the age of 16, with 1 out of every 2 Kenyan men also admitting to have sex under this age.The research highlights that 28% of females interviewed had their first sexual encounter before they were 13 years old. This is higher than the men who lost their virginity at that age, who came in at 18%.At the age of 13-15 years old, only 36% of the males had had sex for the first time while 39% of the females interviewed had their first encounter at that age.Read: Do teens have a right to have consensual sex?The research doesn't however state whether the sexual encounter was with peers or partners older than them. Question. Isn't it about time we all put down the pitchforks and take a beat. It is clearly time to let the sex educators into schools to give talks about sex. Because whether we like it or not, teenagers are indulging in sex at a younger age than is allowed by law. Also of Interest:'Ask Without Shame' app seeks to eliminate taboo linked with sex education