With approximately six months to the general election, the race for Taita Taveta governor has already attracted five aspirants, all men. The incumbent is Governor John Mruttu.Those who have declared their interest in the seat are Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu, Taita Taveta Senator Dan Mwazo, Coast Water Services board chairman Granton Samboja, former Immigration PS Emmanuel Kisombe and Jared Nzano.The governor race in the mineral rich county is expected to be more fierce compared to 2013. The county is divided into four constituencies &mdash; Taveta, Wundanyi, Mwatate and Voi.By March last year, Taveta had 24,224 registered voters, Wundanyi 23,258, Mwatate 29,436 and Voi 36,943.AGENDATop on the aspirants&rsquo; agenda include addressing the water, land and human-wildlife challenges that face the people of Taita Taveta. The hopefuls will also be tasked with coming up with elaborate and workable solutions to the high levels of poverty and unemployment. In addressing these challenges, the aspirants are expected to exploit the minerals and tourism potential in the region.&ldquo;The aspirants have to solve the main challenge facing the people of this county, which is water, for both domestic and irrigation purposes. We must ensure food security. They will also have to invest in new technologies in the 28 ranches in the county and make them economically viable, and attract good investments,&rdquo; Donald Mombo, a Mwatate resident, said.OLD GUARD VERSUS YOUTHThe old guard &ndash; Mruttu, Mwadeghu, Kisombe and Mwazo &ndash; will lock horns with the youthful Nzano and Samboja.&ldquo;This is the time for the old guard to pave way for the young and energetic people to take up the leadership of this county. The old guard have no vision for the future of Taita Taveta, which is endowed with rich natural resources such as minerals, water and untapped tourism potential,&rdquo; Samboja recently told the Star in an interview.Samboja, who enjoys huge support from the youth and women, on Thursday met professionals and businesspeople from the region in Nairobi, where he announced he will launch his manifesto in May.&ldquo;In March, I will announce the party I will use as my political vehicle. I urge the electorate not to bother too much about the party a hopeful will use rather than their individual capacity to steer this county to economic prosperity. In May, I will officially launch my manifesto and start my campaigns,&rdquo; he said.Samboja, a journalist by profession and a businessman, has introduced several scholarship programmes, supported women and youth in enterprises and initiated water projects in the region. Of interest, however, are three former political allies &mdash; Mwadeghu, Mwazo and Mruttu &ndash; who supported each other in the 2013 polls.The three won their seats on the ODM ticket, but have now turned against each other as each of them tries his shot at the county top job. Mwazo and Mwadeghu campaigned for Mruttu in 2013 based on a power-sharing agreement that gave the minority Taveta community the governor seat while the majority Taita took the Senate seat, woman representative and deputy governor seats.ODM POLITICS FACTOR ODM faces an acid test during the nominations, with Mwadeghu and Mruttu going at each other. Mwazo has maintained a low profile in ODM and could opt out and run on either the Wiper or the Jubilee ticket.A falling out is likely in the Orange party after the nominations, with Mwadeghu having warned party leader Raila Odinga against giving Mruttu a direct ticket. He has said he might be forced to leave the party.Mruttu on the other hand has said governors should be given direct party tickets.The Wundanyi MP has criticised Mruttu&rsquo;s development record, asking him to explain how over Sh10 billion that the county has received from the national government has been used. Mruttu&rsquo;s opponents are expected to coalesce their campaigns around the dismal performance in development.Last month, Mwadeghu accused Mruttu of mismanaging the county &ldquo;the way he did when he was CEO of the now-collapsed Kenya Oil Refinery Limited in Mombasa.&rdquo;&ldquo;This time round, I urge you to elect a reasonable governor, a leader like me: I am a certified public accountant. We don&rsquo;t know where the current governor is leading us to. I am not here to attack him, but I don&rsquo;t want him to run the county as he did the collapsed oil refinery. Wasn&rsquo;t he the CEO before the refinery was sold?&rdquo; Mwadeghu said.The incumbent will have an uphill task in defending his seat and avoid going down in history as the first Taita Taveta governor and one who served for a single termMruttu has somewhat lost favour with the electorate due to unfulfilled promises, underdevelopment, nepotism and corruption claims. The latest Auditor General report indicated that more than Sh1 billion could not be accounted for by the county.Mruttu has also fallen out with contractors and suppliers after his administration failed to pay pending bills amounting to over Sh800 million.The governor defends his development record, saying his first term in office cannot be enough to implement all he promised in 2013. He therefore needs a second term.2013 RESULTSMruttu spent the better part of his first year in office in the courts fighting an election petition after Jacinta Mwatela challenged his win. He won the election with 34,290 votes followed closely by Mwatela with 32,890.Wisdom Mwamburi came third with 7,714, the late Mwanyengela Ngali got 6,784, Elijah Mwandoe had 3, 234 while Sophia Kibai got 3,551. Political pundits say Mwatela could have easily won the seat had the aspirants from the Taita community rallied behind the former Central Bank deputy governor.Senator Mwazo also wants the electorate to evaluate the aspirants based on their development record and not on party affiliations.&ldquo;Evaluate me based on what I have done as a senator. This time round, we should elect people not parties as we did in the last election,&rdquo; he told the Star.Mwazo will however, have to explain to the electorate why he remained silent despite reports of corruption in the county government as reported by the Auditor General.There have been calls for the five Taita aspirants to join forces to increase their chances of removing Mruttu from office.The argument is that if the five run they are likely to split the votes, something that will hand Mruttu an outright win on August 8.