I have always had a passion for the arts. That is why, despite studying biotechnology at JKUAT, I got into comedy, voice-acting and the media. My mother is also in the media, so that also inspired me to follow that path. I have come a long way from doing prank shoots for TV shows to now working for the XYZ show. That was my big break. Now, I do a lot of voice-over work, emceeing and comedy.SCHEDULE4AM: I wake up, wrestle with sleep for about five minutes then get out of bed. I have leftovers, shower and dress for work, leaving at 4.15am.5.20AM: I get to the office and take time to read the dailies for my show, which runs until 10am. After the show, I sit down with the producer and the interns and we prep for the next day&rsquo;s show.If it is a Monday and XYZ is in season, I will rush over to our studios at the Go Down Arts Centre, where apart from being a voice-over artist, I am the assistant voice artist director. 11AM: On any other day I usually attend meetings from 11am. Sometimes I will hold the meeting at our offices or, depending on the nature of the meeting, I might have to meet the person at their office or a hotel.2PM: Meetings usually take about two hours, so by 1pm or 2pm, I am done. On other days, I might go to Scanad to record a voice-over or two, then leave town and head over to another studio, where most of my animated voices are produced. I do voices for Disney Junior (Doc Mcstuffins Swahili version), so for about two hours, I will be in the studio. 5PM: My day is done by around 5pm. I go back home and catch up on my favourite series. I love epic tales, fantasies or sci-fi stories, so I will watch Vikings, The 100, Vampire Diaries, The Originals, and so on. 7PM: I usually have something marinating in the fridge, so around 7 or 8pm I will retrieve some chicken, pork ribs, rabbit or fish and either fry it or bake it. Dinner is served when the food is ready.10PM: I usually like going to bed at 9 or 10pm latest. While in bed, I will get online and chat until sleep overcomes me and I slumber. WEEKENDS: I will link up with friends for a drink or a road trip. If not, I will probably be at a wedding emceeing or some corporate event hosting their team building, party or conference. Some Sundays I will go to church but most of them will find me nursing a hangover. I like keeping to myself to detox and prepare for Monday morning.