So why is Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) still donating to schools and churches during his massive voter registration mobilisation campaigns? Well, sources whisper to Corridors the DP gave Sh3 million to three schools in Watamu. He has also given cash in Nyamira, Eldoret and Bungoma in the last few weeks. This despite the stringent electoral law barring politicians from participating in harambees eight months to the general election. It should be remembered that in December last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta reportedly declined to give cash to a PCEA church in his Kiambu backyard, citing the electoral laws. Does the IEBC have the backbone to implement this law or it is just another “beautiful” piece of legislation? ***** Still on Jubilee cash, where is a senior Jubilee politician getting all the money he carries around during voter mobilisations? It’s said that on a recent visit to Mombasa, aides to the politician carried cash in bags. A little bird whispers to Corridors that some sacks are so heavy that they cannot be carried by one person. The Jubilee politician, who is on record ridiculing Josephine Kabura for carrying money in gunny bags, is doing the same thing. Well, maybe anti-graft Czar Eliud Wabukala should train his eyes on this politician rumoured to have acquired so much wealth over the years. ***** It seems construction on a piece of land that was grabbed in Karura Forest has started again. This in addition to the massive logging activities in the forest. It was briefly stopped following a public outcry. The land was grabbed along Kiambu Road towards the DCI headquarters. Word has it the land was grabbed by a member of a powerful family, who wants to set up an international hotel. Several tractors have been moving on the stolen piece very early in the morning. The forest has also experienced increased human activities, including a drinking joint. Wangari Maathai must be turning in her grave. ***** The entry of magnate Gathogo Gikonyo into the race for the Starehe parliamentary seat has intensified the political activity in a constituency held by senior Jubilee politician Maina Kamanda. Gathogo is chairman of the Rwathia Group of Companies and is believed to have a strong war chest. But both Gathogo and Kamanda hail from Murang’a county. It is said most opinion makers in Starehe constituency, considered Jubilee turf, also come from Murang’a. This has complicated the race and the two must now settle this mano a mano.