Coast-based political parties and scholars have formed a coalition to consolidate its more than 1.5 million votes and play kingmaker in August.Kadu Asili, Shirikisho Party of Kenya and about 50 professors are working to have the coalition ready before the August 8 poll.In a high-level meeting attended on Saturday by scholars and leaders from across the Coast region, a committee was formed to decide the best way to pick a presidential candidate. Pwani University lecturer Halimu Shauri is part of the team.If the deal is anything to go by, a candidate named will be the third person from the region to run for President after Chibule wa Tsuma and Katama Mkangi. Chibule is currently a Kadu Asili official. Speaking in Kilifi town on Sunday, Kadu Asili leader Gunga Mwinga said the plan to have a coalition of all coastal parties is long overdue.The team anticipates a runoff in the coming poll, and says if they stick together, the coalition will play a pivotal role in swaying the outcome of the runoff. Its long-term strategy is to isolate the Coast from both Cord-NASA and Jubilee, make it stand on its own and be a decider in presidential polls. They say any decision must benefit residents.The first test will be to depict the Coast union as the only option to end the problems bedevilling the region. They intend to portray parties with significant support from other regions as the greatest enemy of residents.At the 2013 election, Uhuru Kenyatta won by about 800,000 votes, against first runner-up Raila Odinga. With more than a million votes, the team says Coast can play the kingmaker role. Mwinga, SPK head Abdul Kadir Mwinyi, Maur Bwanamaka and Coast People&rsquo;s Forum co-founder Naomi Cidi are pushing the idea.The coalition will be used as a bargaining tool. ODM dominates Coast politics, though Jubilee is trying to make inroads. Mwinga and his team want a Coast outfit to dominate the region as ODM controls Nyanza or JP controls Central.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re holding the key to State House,&rdquo; Cidi said. &ldquo;We must speak with one voice, be united. Unity is strength.&rdquo;She said the biggest headache has been money, but if they are united, &ldquo;cash will start trickling down.&rdquo;The proponents say they have numbers, though there is serious division.Cidi spoke in Methodist Hall, Mombasa, where they met. Mwinga warns that they have to be steadfast if they want to succeed, as similar unity talks have been held before but collapsed almost immediately.&ldquo;The conversation dominated the 9th, 10th and now the 11th Parliament. The same will happen during the 12th Parliament. After their third year in office, Coast MPs usually find a new zeal to unite. But in the fourth year, things change. They retreat to their political outfits,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;For things to work, we must overcome the power of money &mdash; being bought,&rdquo; Mwinga said.The Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani (Confederation of Coast Counties), an economic bloc formed two years ago, is &ldquo;dead&rdquo; due to vested political interests.Bwanamaka said it is unfair for leading coalitions and parties to call the shots at the Coast, but fail to give meaningful positions to residents. He said the time is ripe for the Coast to chart its own path.He said Coast has been used to catapult others to the presidency, while its own residents are left languishing in poverty.