Bamba Sports have signed an exclusive TV broadcast rights to air the National Super League starting this season. The three-year deal will see Bamba Sports screen four games on their free-to-air Bamba platform every week.The deal is reportedly worth Sh10 million with a 10 percent increment every year. Radio Africa, who own Bamba Sports will invest Sh100 million in advertising with the two parties set to share 50-50 from the revenue which will be generated. The deal doesn&rsquo;t lock out other sponsors for the second tier league including the title sponsors.Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President, Nick Mwendwa was delighted to have the deal that will showcase the breeding ground for local football talent.He thanked Radio Africa for having faith in the federation. &ldquo;This is big milestone for Kenyan football. We want to showcase the best talent from around the country and give our youth a platform to be seen as well as promote local football,&rdquo; said Mwendwa.He observed that Kenyans have an opportunity to watch their local heroes on television. &ldquo;FKF is very excited that Kenyans have an opportunity, for the first time ever, to watch live quality grassroots football on their screens. This will also provide the players an opportunity to showcase their talent to millions of football fans around the country,&rdquo; he added.Mwendwa said since taking office an year ago, the National Super League has been streamlined. &ldquo;In previous years, we used to hear of teams being added points unilaterally but since last season, the league has run smoothly and with it now going on TV, expect to see a better product,&rdquo; he added.Bamba Sport will also air Harambee Stars friendly matches and the hunt is on to acquire rights for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers which start in June.Radio Africa Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Quarcoo, urged other corporates to come on board and support Kenyan football.&ldquo;I have faith in FKF. They have done a good job. They are corruption free and focused on re-building football in this country. I urge other CEOs&rsquo; to come on board and support our football as we try to qualify for the next Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon in 2019 and the World Cup in 2022 in Qatar,&rdquo; said Quarcoo.The league, which kicks off on February 25th comprises of many prominent teams including Wazito FC, Nairobi Stima, Palos FC, Agro-Chemicals and Bidco United among others. Bamba Sports is available throughout Kenya and can be viewed on Bamba TV, GOtv and StarTimes decoders.