Soldiers Ulinzi Stars go to war against Libyan outfit Al Ahli Benghazi at Moi, Kasarani, needing a two-goal margin of victory to proceed to the first round of the CAF Confederations Cup.Ulinzi fell to a narrow 1-0 defeat in the first leg in Cairo last Friday but they will be confident of overturning that result what with striker John Makwata available for selection after failing to travel for the first leg. Then Makwata&rsquo;s passport was held up in South Africa as his visa for next week&rsquo;s trip to the United Kingdom as part of the SportPesa All Stars, was being processed. Ulinzi coach Benjamin Nyangweso believes his side can overturn the 0-1 deficit against Al Hilal this afternoon. The team has been training in Nairobi ahead of the return tie and coach Nyangweso is optimistic they can rise to the occasion.&ldquo;It is not an easy match because they are a very tactical team. But if we work hard and minimize on our mistakes, it is a result we can overturn. The players are working hard in training and hopefully we will be at our best,&rdquo; Nyangweso said. Looking back at the first leg, the coach was pleased with the performance, though the result was not what was required. &ldquo;They scored when my defenders stood back, thinking the referee would be calling for an offside but he didn&rsquo;t. But we gave in a very good match and we had chances which we failed to use. This is one of the things we are looking at for the return leg. We should use our chances,&rdquo; the coach said.Makwata, Oscar wamalwa and Enosh Ochieng will be depended upon to look for goals for the Kenyans while dependable and experienced defender Geoffrey Kokoyo alongside Mohamed Hasan will shield shot stopper James Saruni. To ensure fans get easy of access, the team has lowered the entrance charges. Tickets for the VIP dais will retail at Sh300 while the other sitting areas will be charged a flat rate of Sh100. Meanwhile, Al Hilal arrived in the country on Wednesday while match officials from DR Congo were expected to arrive on Thursday night.