HIDDEN FIGURES Rating: 5/5Did you know that three female African-American mathematicians, working at NASA in 1962, were instrumental in getting the Mercury programme into orbit and winning the US space race against the Soviets? Me neither. That&rsquo;s why Hidden Figures is such an instructive and wildly entertaining eye-opener. There&rsquo;s nothing particularly innovative about the filmmaking &ndash; director Theodore Melfi (St Vincent) mostly sticks to the record in the script he wrote with Allison Schroeder from the nonfiction book by Margot Lee Shetterly. But it&rsquo;s the smart move. This is a story that doesn&rsquo;t need frills. It simply needs telling, and the fact it gets three dynamite actresses (Taraji P. Henson, Janelle Monae and Octavia Spencer) to tell it does poetic justice to both these women and the Civil Rights movement at large.The story may be corny at times, even simplistic, but that doesn&rsquo;t stop you from wanting to stand up and cheer. Lots of movies are labelled as &ldquo;inspirational&rdquo; &mdash; Hidden Figures truly earns the right to the term. Nominated for:Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Supporting ActressMANCHESTER BY THE SEARating: 4.5/5You can&rsquo;t really prepare yourself for the emotional powerhouse that is Manchester by the Sea. And you shouldn&rsquo;t let big-mouth critics and friends tell you too much about what&rsquo;s ahead in writer-director Kenneth Lonergan&rsquo;s transcendent benchmark. In an ordinary movie, these plotlines would converge with aching familiarity. Not here. Lonergan fills Manchester with disorderly sprawl, a sense of life as it&rsquo;s lived and not manufactured by Hollywood. With brilliant contributions from cinematographer Jody Lee Lipes and composer Lesley Barber, the film lets us experience Lee as he closes himself off from the world.Lee Chandler, played by Casey Affleck, acts out on impulses he&rsquo;s afraid to examine or articulate. And as we watch him, through Affleck&rsquo;s piercing performance, deny himself the comfort of human warmth and forgiveness, we weep for him. No tricks. No manipulation. No catharsis. No big-moment monologue that offers easy redemption. It&rsquo;s hardly an accident that Manchester by the Sea ranks with the year&rsquo;s very best films. It takes a piece out of you.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Original ScreenplayMOONLIGHTRating: 5/5It&rsquo;s impossible to pinpoint exactly how Barry Jenkins&rsquo;s Moonlight gets inside your head and makes you see the world with new eyes. But it does &ndash; and then it owns you. This is a game-changer, the kind of movie that defies glib categorisation. Reduced to tweet size, it&rsquo;s about the experience of growing up black, gay and alienated in the Miami projects. Jenkins, adapting Tarell Alvin McCraney&rsquo;s play In the Moonlight Black Boys Look Blue, locks focus on one boy through three stages of his life &ndash; as a nine-year-old, a teenager, and an adult. Three stellar actors take us on this journey into the core of self-awareness. Each one will break your heart.The actors are uniformly superb, and Naomi Harris, who portrays the mother in all three segments, achieves something miraculous: a forgiving portrait of neglect. With the help of James Laxton&rsquo;s sinuous camerawork and a soulful score from Nicholas Britell, Jenkins shows us Chiron (the protagonist) in the act of inventing himself, of creating an identity. The effect is both intimate and epic. Moonlight, which announces Jenkins as a major filmmaker, gets you good. It stays raw from first scene to last.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, Best Cinematography and Best Film Editing LIONRating: 5/5Dev Patel doesn&rsquo;t appear until nearly an hour into Lion, but when he does, his strong, soulful, Oscar-buzzed performance cuts deep. The film is based on Saroo Brierley&rsquo;s bestselling memoir A Long Way Home, about a five-year-old Indian boy raised in abject poverty, who falls asleep on a train and ends nearly 1,000 miles away in Calcutta. It&rsquo;s then that this kid is adopted by an Australian couple, Sue and John Brierley (Nicole Kidman and David Wenham), who give him an education and raise him in posh, middle-class comfort. Adorable newcomer Sunny Pawar plays the young man with open-faced appeal and no trace of smart-minded child-actor precociousness. Davis rigorously avoids turning real-life misfortune into Hollywood treacle. Kudos to Kidman, whose unglam, unguarded take on the role is emotionally powerful and true; her scenes with Patel provide just the right blend of grit and grace. And the young star, maturing nicely past the boyish enthusiasm he showed in Slumdog Millionaire and Marigold Hotel films, enters a new phase of his career with fierce commitment. Lion is one from the heart.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Adapted ScreenplayLA LA LANDRating: 5/5 For the youth market, whose patience with song and dance is usually limited to short-form videos about getting into formation with Beyonc&eacute;, an old-school, feature-length musical is predicted to be a tough sell. I wouldn&rsquo;t be so sure. Brilliantly written and directed by 31-year-old Damien Chazelle (Whiplash), La La Land does nothing less than jolt the movie musical to life for the 21st century. There&rsquo;s not an ounce of Broadway fat on this love story that raises its voice and moves its feet because it has to &ndash; because its the best and maybe the only way to speak its heart. You leave exhilarated by Chazelle&rsquo;s nonstop inventiveness, dazzled by the performances of Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling as star-crossed lovers wary of happy endings, and thrilled that they figured out how to make movies magic again. The passion for cinema and its possibilities radiates from every frame. The sheer perfection of La La Land deserves everything and more coming its way. It sweeps you away on waves of humour, heartbreak and ravishing romance. It&rsquo;s the movie of the year.Nominated for: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Original ScreenplayBest Original Score, Best Original Song, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, Best Production, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Film EditingPrediction Vs Deserving verdictBEST PICTUREPrediction: La La Land Potential/Deserving: Lion BEST DIRECTOR Prediction &amp; Deserving: Damien Chazelle (La La Land)BEST ACTORPrediction: Andrew Garfield (Hacksaw Ridge)Potential/Deserving: Casey Affleck (Manchester by the Sea)BEST ACTRESSPrediction: Emma Stone (La La Land)Potential/Deserving: Natalie Portman (Jackie)BEST SUPPORTING ACTORPrediction: Mashershala Ali (Moonlight)Potential/Deserving: Dev Patel (Lion)BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESSPrediction &amp; Deserving: Viola Davis (Fences)BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY Prediction: Manchester by the Sea Potential/Deserving: Manchester by the Sea and La La LandBEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY Prediction: MoonlightPotential/Deserving: Moonlight and LionBEST CINEMATOGRAPHY Prediction &amp; Deserving: La La Land BEST FILM EDITING Prediction &amp; Deserving: Arrival