From the grassroots to the national level, the race for Mombasa governor is seen as a contest between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga.They have had a lot of influence in the county politics with their frequent visits as soon as the other leaves. Mombasa is one those interesting political environments where deep poverty co-exists with massive wealth. Raila on one hand wants to prove he still has the region in his stranglehold while President Uhuru on the other, is out to show political dynamics do change. Due to their influence, all the four governor aspirants are endearing themselves to either of the two political bigwigs. They believe an endorsement is more or less a direct ticket and a win at the ballot in August. In the recent past, the campaigns have at times become mucky, with Mombasa Governor engaging President Uhuru and other Jubilee leaders in fierce exchanges. Joho's administration has blamed the national government for underdevelopment in parts of the county, saying "Jubilee has been unfair to them and still wants to take away the few resources the county has." has been 'unfair' to them, and also wants to 'snatch' the few resources the county has. In particular, Joho has said the port of Mombasa only benefits the national government leaving out the county. His opponents, however, claim poor leadership is the reason for underdevelopment. An onslaught to unseat the incumbent is led by Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, both of the Wiper Party. Jubilee point man in the region Suleiman Shahbal and Annaniah Mwaboza, Deputy President William Ruto's legal adviser have also announced their interest in the position. The outcome of the race is still unpredictable, as of now. None of the candidates can be ruled out and also, the incumbent's influence can't be ignored. The Mijikenda and the Kamba communities are expected to determine the winner. During the 2013 polls, the Mijikendas were the single largest vote bloc estimated at about 130,484 votes. This has not changed. Joho won with 132,507 votes, with most Mijikendas voting for him because his running mate Hazel Katana is from the community. Shahbal, running on the Wiper ticket came second with 94,918 votes. But it is important to note that all the governor aspirants in 2013 had running mates from the Mijikenda community. The same is expected this year. There were also about 70,000 Kambas registered as voters in 2013. The other communities were estimated to be around 50,000 combined. These figures have since increased. After the first phase of mass registration in March last year, 329,401 voters were listed. By the end of the ongoing mass voter registration that ends on February 14, this number is expected to reach half a million as the IEBC targets 200, 000 new voters. But things are thick for Joho&rsquo;s camp due to defections to other parties. The latest to leave is his deputy, Hazel, who was received by President Uhuru in State House, Mombasa, last week. Graft allegations, the drugs menace, misplaced priorities, and plans to sell off the only 10 county estates are some of the key issues that form the agenda ahead of the polls. The county launched a Sh33 billion Vision 2035 blueprint in which it intends to demolish old county estates and put up modern estates to accommodate more residents. But Hassan and Shahbal allege this is a plot by Joho and his cronies to sell off the only public houses in Mombasa.This has already taken a political angle and the two have run away with it in attacking Joho. Tenants have been convinced and have refused to vacate, others vowing to vote the governor out.His rival Mwaboza, claims projects undertaken by the county from Sh18 billion it has received from Treasury since 2013 are not visible, remarks that have been echoed by President Uhuru. They are calling for change in leadership failure to which more will be lost. Mwaboza says Joho's administration has not given residents value for their money. &ldquo;What has Sh4.5 billion every year done for the people of Mombasa?&rdquo; Mwaboza asks.&ldquo;Why was it a priority to put walking paths in Nyali, while there are areas such as Mshomoroni, Mwakirunge, Jomvu, Kwa Hola, and Mtongwe that have no roads?&rdquo; Mwaboza accuses the county administrators of putting their interest and ego ahead of service delivery, citing the disagreements between the county and the national government. Awiti says the number of drug addicts in the county has increased under Joho&rsquo;s watch. He says should Joho get a second term,the situation will escalate into uncontrollable levels. He estimates that close to 100,000 youths are drug addicts. The Wiper national treasurer says Mombasa is now the most difficult county to trade in.&ldquo;An ordinary Kenyan can't trade in Mombasa. Levies are exorbitant and keep on increasing every financial year,&rdquo; he says.Awiti says residents should be offered better business terms for them to thrive. This, he says, can be done through legislation. He also criticises the manner in which tendering is done in the county. He alleges only one family is benefitting by dictating terms.Hassan says should he be elected governor, he will hold Joho, and all those alleged to have been involved in looting public funds, to account. He has said he will go to the extent of ensuring contractors scheduled to undertake the proposed housing project face the law. He argues the project was approved irregularly and thousands will be rendered homeless. This is despite the High Court based in Mombasa ruling in favour of the project Hassan has also claimed Sh1 billion was lost through a dubious garbage collection tender and wants the cash accounted for. The Wiper secretary general has questioned the governor's security detail, alleging his family has 19 guns. Shahbal says Mombasa is stinking and no longer an attractive city despite it being a tourist town. He also says the county is unable to attract investors because Joho doesn't have connections in international markets. But Joho is adamant that he will be elected based on his track record. The county has revamped the Coast Level 5 Hospital, although availability of drugs is still a challenge. Joho's administration has put up a neurosurgical theater and recruited neurosurgeon. The hospital is now able to handle an average of 500 deliveries per day, which includes 20 cesarean section cases. Joho says he intends to expand the hospital to 2,000 bed capacity up from 700. He has completed close to 49 km stretch of cabro paved and tarmac roads in his first term, longer than what the national government has done since Independence. This has opened up areas locked before. It&rsquo;s possible to trade now than before. The county has allocated Sh30 million for the construction of five seven-a-side artificial football pitches. The last field is due next month. The Mombasa County Stadium is being renovated and will be fitted with tartan track at a cost of Sh61 million. The national government will give h51 million. Eight ECDEs have been constructed and the county is the first to introduce milk feeding programme. Over 30,946 pupils have benefitted The county has built a 10-ton modern deep sea fishing vessel that is expected to boost the industry and employ 4,000 youth. The vessel constructed in partnership with KCB is worth Sh20 million. Joho plans to increase the fleet to 10 or 14 by the end of next year, if reelected. A whooping Sh200 billion will be used to establish 30,000 affordable housing units to address the rising demand for accommodation in Mombasa. Dilapidated county houses will be demolished and high-rise estates set up.&ldquo;By 2025, Mombasa will have a population of 2.3 million. Currently, we have only 3,000 units, and a housing demand of 25,000 units per year,&rdquo; Joho says. With all these, Joho says he is unbeatable. He sees his opponents as figures that lack local&rsquo;s interest and are power hungry. Joho says he &ldquo;is not dreaming&rdquo; of being Raila's running mate.&ldquo;I have confidence I will retain my seat in Mombasa. Others are just busybodies who will disappear once defeated,&rdquo; he says.