The ongoing talks to end the doctors&rsquo; strike are bearing fruit as a return-to-work formula could be agreed upon soon. The parties were holed up in a day-long meeting yesterday in the Crowne Plaza Hotel, Nairobi. The meeting was led by Kenya National Commission on Human Rights chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori, who, together with Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, is mediating the talks. &ldquo;We hope to have a truce and comply with the deadline given by the courts last week,&rdquo; a doctors&rsquo; union official told the Star. The medics have been on strike for 66 days. Labour Court Justice Hellen Wasilwa gave officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists&rsquo; Union seven more days to end the strike. Failing that, they will serve a one-month jail term from Tuesday next week.Doctors initially insisted the strike would only end if the government fully implements the 2013 collective bargaining agreement, which was nullified by a court last year. The CBA proposed monthly salaries ranging from Sh325,000 to Sh1 million, but the government has given a final offer of Sh196,000 to about Sh600,000. The strike has grown more unpopular with the public. A survey released by Ipsos on Tuesday showed only 33 per cent of Kenyans support the doctors&rsquo; demands.&ldquo;This is given the critical nature of the services missed by the public and awareness of both the strike and the union&rsquo;s main demand,&rdquo; Ipsos said.KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga said they are ready to back down on their salary demands and now want the government to address only four key issues &mdash; training, employment, staffing standards and working conditions.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s time for a compromise, but the government must also compromise,&rdquo; he said.Oluga recently said doctors are not to blame for the lengthy strike, instead accusing the government of mishandling it. The government gave a mortgage offer of between Sh10 million and Sh20 million, a car loan of up to Sh5 million and training programmes amounting to Sh11 million. President Uhuru Kenyatta also handed the doctors a flat-rate risk allowance of Sh10,000 and more than doubled their call allowance from Sh30,000 to Sh66,000.