Michael Olunga's move to China super league club Guizhou Hengfeng Zhicheng from Swedish club Djurgadens will not hurt his development as a player or limit his chances with the Harambee Stars Kenya national team.Speaking yesterday Olunga's mentor Jacob "Ghost" Mulee said other top players have gone to play for Chinese clubs and other foreign leagues and continue to play at the highest levels with their national teams.&ldquo;Olunga is only 22. He may go there (China) and play for two years then move back to Europe if he wants. Its not permanent that he will stay in China. So for me its a good deal and Kenyans should wish him well," Mulee added.Mulee cited the experience of Ghanaian striker Asamoah Gyan who had a stint in Qatar but was able to play for the Black Stars.He added that he will benefit from playing with other top calibre of players.&ldquo;Look at the top players who have gone to China in the recent past like Didier Drogba and Nicolas Anelka and now Oscar, Carlos Tevez, Ramirez and others and these were and are big players. So its a good move from him because he will play with some of the best players in the world," added Mulee.The coach observed Kenyans are obsessed with the English Premier League but he says football has become competitive across the globe."We have this fixation with the Premier league yet other leagues are just as competitive like the Chinese and others in Europe,&rdquo; he added.Olunga's deal is reported to be worth Sh470million (&pound;3.59m or 4.20m Euros) from Swedish club Djurgadens. The players personal terms are yet to be disclosed.Mulee acknowledged this is a paradigm shift from Europe to China and that several players are being linked to the Chinese Super league.&ldquo;There is a change of guard for players with many moving to China from Europe in recent times. Even Chelsea striker Diego Costa has been linked with China. A few weeks ago we had Ronaldo also being linked. They have the financial muscle and are able to attract the best players in the world. I know in the near future you will see more players heading in that direction,&rdquo; Mulee added.Olunga had been linked with a move to Turkish club Galatasaray and Russian club Spartak Moscow. Other top players who have moved to the China Super league include Graziano Pelle of Italy, Belgium international Axel Witsel, Brazilian Ramires and Nigerian John Obi Mikel formerly of Chelsea.Speaking to Four Four Two media former Stars striker Dennis Oliech also hailed Olunga's move. Oliech, who at the peak of his career famously turned down a multi-million dollar offer to switch his allegiance to Qatar and went on to have a fairly successful time in France, first with Nantes, then Auxerre and AC Ajaccio, has given his one time Harambee Stars striking partnerthe thumbs up.&ldquo;I am sure he (Olunga) will do well in China. In a few years he will return to an even bigger club in Europe. Give him time," the Betway Ambassador said. He added: "As a player you always want to move and improve your career and i think this is what Olunga has done," Oliech said