Kenyans on Twitter were outraged after Fox Network used the film footage of the Westgate mall terror attack in one of its shows.The popular '24 Legacy' series aired the video of how the terrorists shot and killed civilians at the mall in September 2013.A woman is seen showing the footage to three men sitting around a table. But the actors, who spoke proper English, said the location was Alexandria in Egypt, not Nairobi. "This is the footage from Al-Jegrad market in Alexandria Egypt three years ago. The attack was planned and executed by Bin Khalid and his men," the woman says. She adds that more than 200 men, including 18 Americans, were killed.Al Shabaab militants, who numbered between 10 and 15, killed at least 69 people and left many others injured in a four-day siege at Westgate.Westgate, once a totem of Kenya's growing prosperity, became symbolic of growing insecurity in Kenya.&nbsp; The mall was renovated and reopened for business. Read: Death toll in Westgate attack rises to 69A Twitter user identified as Sam Gichuru &nbsp; posted the video under hash tag #SomeoneTellFox and said he disliked what the international news agency did. "#SomeoneTellFox that you were very insensitive to those who still have nightmares and lost loved ones," he said. Kenyans lashed out at the media for being disrespectful and insensitive. " How is using a live footage of a terror attack where people lost their lives entertainment? Shame on you,"&nbsp; Ndinda Maingi&rlm; said. Lynne T&nbsp;Farrah said: "Face the wrath of KOT. How dare you be so insensitive and use real footage of the Westgate attack [sic]." "How can you make money on the graves of our brothers and sisters, the actual attack footage? Seeing them being shot?"&nbsp;Moses Amolo asked. Marion Mithamo said: " Kenya is deserving of respect. Past mistakes and tragedies don't define us." Other users asked the media house to apologise. "#SomeoneTellFox @24fox you have hit a new low!! Apologise to Kenyans for being so insensitive! Actual lives were lost! SMH,"&nbsp; Simeon Jowi said.