More than 30 schools have closed in Baringo county in the worsening attacks by Pokot bandits. The death toll in the past week is at least eight.Knut Baringo branch executive secretary Joshua Cheptarus ordered immediate closure of the schools after three more people, including a teacher, were shot dead on Tuesday in Chepkesin, Baringo North subcounty.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s so sad even before we bury the teacher killed in Kapndasum another one is killed,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t stare as armed security officers flee the bandit zones, while poor teachers having only chalk and pens remain behind.&rdquo;Agitated Cheptarus told teachers, parents and pupils to move to safety. Closed schools are Ngaratuko, Chemoe, Yatya, Tuluk, Kagir, Loruk, Chepkesin, Kapturo, Toboroi, Barsuswo and Lokorotabim in Baringo North, Ramacha, Karma, Katilimwo, Kapndsum, Chemorongion, Embosos, Arabal, Chebinyiny, Sosionte, Nyimbei, Kasiela, Keon, Tuiyotich, Lamaiwe, Karne and Kabel, Rugus, Noosukro and Siarata in Baringo South.They include ECDE centres, primary and secondary schools. They have been turned into temporary shelters.Teacher William Kandie from Kasiela Primary School on Monday said there were only 125 pupils before it was closed two weeks ago. He was holding a poison-tipped arrow and joined others to repulse the bandits.&ldquo;We need to be told if we are in Kenya or not,&rdquo; he said, urging the government to end the attacks or arm them so they can face the attackers head-on.Baringo assembly deputy speaker Douglas Kiplimo on Wednesday said if JP seriously needs Baringo votes, then its must end the attacks. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t see people voting if the trend continues to August,&rdquo; Kiplimo said. On Sunday, the bandits killed the breastfeeding mother of a three-day-old baby in Natan and a Kapndasum Primary School teacher in Marigat.Baringo MCAs issued a statement on Monday demanding immediate arrest of assembly speaker William Kamket and Tiaty MP Asman Kamama. They want the two, who are Pokots, charged with incitement.Kiplomo said, &ldquo;We are giving the government only two days to arrest killers of Loyamorok MCA Kibet Cheretei and Tiaty MP aspirant Pepe Kitamabaa. Failing that, don&rsquo;t blame us for any eventuality.&rdquo;He said Kamama and Kamket&rsquo;s statements have led to deaths of six more people and injuries to several others. Kiplimo was backed by majority leader Elijah Toroitich, Zachariah Kipkuto (Sacho) and Jennifer Kabon (nominated).He accused the Jubilee administration of failing to end the problem despite its 2013 pre-election pledge. &ldquo;DP William Ruto said banditry and cattle rustling would be a thing of the past,&rdquo; Kiplimo said.