A common charge levelled by the Uhuruto cohort against those who did not support the candidature of Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed for the position of chair of the African Union Commission (AUC) has been that they are unpatriotic. And usual with the Uhuruto crew, this charge is unmolested by context or factual content and is more in their spit-and-polish tradition of gloss and spin. The democratic dispensation established and embedded via the promulgation of the constitution on August 27, 2010 created a new governance corpus, one of whose central arteries was democratic governance. Now, democratic governance relies on public participation, criticism of government and alternative thinking and voice.The constitution, at Article 10(2)(a), also set out &ldquo;patriotism&rdquo; as a national value and principle of governance. The constitutional context, hence, would clearly lend the definition of &ldquo;patriotism&rdquo; in synch with Mark Twain&rsquo;s memorable remark, &ldquo;Patriotism is supporting your country all the time and your government when it deserves it.&rdquo;In short, Uhuruto needed to &ldquo;deserve&rdquo; Kenyans&rsquo; support for Amina&rsquo;s nomination. And on this, they failed. Miserably! Abjectly! Any questioning to inform on the raison d&rsquo;etre of Amina&rsquo;s candidature were mainly stonewalled: the decision came as edict from up-on-high and, thus, imbued with Muthamaki&rsquo;s infinite wisdom; which it seems to our current government should not and cannot be interrogated by ordinary mortals. In the absence of any cogent and reasoned official argumentation in support of her candidature, the digital space was deluged with performance audits of Amina. Our purpose or intention here is not to, like a mortician, examine on which of these contested grounds her candidature faltered. Rather, it is to flag the indubitable fact that, due to the strangulated and unyielding mainstream national debate platforms, there was rational yet trenchant questioning of Amina&rsquo;s suitability for the top administrative seat of the AUC. And this is why the charge of patriotism against those Kenyans who did not support Amina&rsquo;s candidature cannot and will not stand. Former US President Theodore Roosevelt noted Patriotism means to stand by the country. It does not mean to stand by the president or any other public official, save exactly to the degree in which he himself stands by the country. It is patriotic to support him insofar as he efficiently serves the country. It is unpatriotic not to oppose him to the exact extent that by inefficiency or otherwise he fails in his duty to stand by the country. In either event, it is unpatriotic not to tell the truth, whether about the president or anyone else.The unanswered questions about the intersection between Amina&rsquo;s nomination and Kenya&rsquo;s national interests meant that this connection and its national, regional, continental and international ramifications were bathed in suspicion, in the mind of a critical segment of society that does not see its primary civic responsibility to be to cheerlead, genuflect or kowtow to Uhuruto. In short, the absence of any debate on what national interest was being served by Amina&rsquo;s candidature at the AUC rendered nugatory the charge of guilty to the non-believing citizen. Indeed, there were credible sentiments swirling that Amina&rsquo;s nomination was thickly and centrally informed by a desire to leverage and promote the impunity of Uhuruto. This had already been demonstrated with the continental anti-International Criminal Court (ICC) crusade Amina has sharply of-times led. Amina&rsquo;s own dismissive, unquestioning and uncritical defense of the Uhuruto government&rsquo;s documented violation and abrogation of fundamental human rights in its prosecution of the war against terrorism was not helpful either. Moreover, in a context where already at play are critical and significant questions about the democratic credibility of the forthcoming 2017 Kenyan elections, the election of Amina to the position of the AUC chair would have sent the wrong signal about the standing of the AU as an impartial player in this contest; as it ultimately was in 2007.Open and critical debate on these and other questions pertaining to Amina&rsquo;s nomination as AUC Chair needed serious ventilation and clarification. But this is Kenya under Uhuruto, where unthinking obeisance premised upon the &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo; is now demanded; leading to a bizarre situation where as comedian George Carlin sarcastically commented: &ldquo;I do this real moron thing, and it&rsquo;s called thinking. And apparently I&rsquo;m not a very good American because I like to form my own opinions.&rdquo; This preferred trajectory where any alternative thinking is delegitimized or even criminalized is democratically untenable; for it is actually and veritably tyranny. This was not what Kenyans signed up to on August 27, 2010. The right to criticize is not only explicitly protected in the letter of the constitution but also inherent, intrinsic and implied in its spirit. And if the government refuses to respect this fact, then as Edward Abbey stated, &ldquo;A patriot must always be ready to defend his country against his government.&rdquo;Any other way and &ldquo;patriotism&rdquo; will, as Samuel Johnson mused, remain &ldquo;the last refuge of a scoundrel.&rdquo; Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.