The creation of the omnibus Opposition outfit &lsquo;Nasa&rsquo;, also known as the National Super Alliance has caused lots of excitement in political circles. It presents perhaps the best chance for the Opposition to unite and send Jubilee packing in the coming elections. According to analysts, it in fact presents perhaps the only chance to do so in the first round and even if not, at least they could push for a runoff which would complicate Jubilee&rsquo;s chances. Nasa brings together several principals and seasoned politicians who have behind them large constituencies. Their combined vote, it is reasoned, will fell the Jubilee giant as Narc did Kanu in 2002. The name &lsquo;Nasa&rsquo; in Kiswahili is the transitive verb meaning &lsquo;catch&rsquo; and it creates a powerful image as they are going to &lsquo;capture&rsquo; power this time round. The good news largely ends there. With four principles (and counting), the headache for Nasa is choosing the flag bearer. Various permutations and possible combinations are being worked out, am told, by no less than some respectable professors at a local university using advanced analytical models. There are however certain scenarios that are likely to complicate Nasa&rsquo;s drive for power come August making it difficult for them to repeat Narc&rsquo;s feat in 2002. Here&rsquo;s why.Moi is not on the ballotIn 2002, Moi presented Uhuru Kenyatta as his preferred successor. Having stayed in power for 24 years, it seemed that he was intent on extending his hold on power using the young (and rather na&iuml;ve and guileless) Uhuru. Voting for Uhuru was therefore voting for Moi. Moi had also sidestepped serious and seasoned politicians like Saitoti, Raila, Kalonzo even Mudavadi who had been waiting in line for a while. It was a no-brainer for Kenyans who overwhelmingly chose Kibaki instead of Uhuru in what became a massive protest vote. Kenyans called to mind the previous high office held by Kibaki (Vice President) while Uhuru was portrayed as being in political diapers. It was &lsquo;Change&rsquo; therefore that was on the ballot, not Uhuru or Kibaki. This year however, Uhuru has come full circle and has the advantage of incumbency and all that comes with it. Split Kikuyu voteBeing that two powerful Kikuyu candidates were fighting for the presidency in 2002, the expansive Kikuyu constituency spread around the country was only choosing the lesser of two evils so to speak. By the time Kenyans were coming around to vote, Raila Odinga and other powerful ex-Kanu forces had muddied the water for Kanu and it just couldn&rsquo;t swim. Right now there is no other Kikuyu rival to Uhuru. Having already tasted the character of Kenyatta&rsquo;s presidency, it will be difficult for many Kenyan&rsquo;s to just throw all that under the bridge for something less known. Nasa will have to create a very powerful reason in the mind of Kenyans why they can&rsquo;t endure another five years under Jubilee. The reasons would have to be compelling enough for them to get Jubilee out of power. Corruption? All the four Nasa principals have corruption baggage as do the Jubilee principles, so try another.Nightmare of flagbearerThere is talk that Nasa is trying to work out possible candidate combinations that will deliver them victory. In all their math, there is nothing they can do without a substantive presence of Raila Odinga and it seems they will just have no option but to settle for him. However, even within Nasa itself there are those who don&rsquo;t feel safe with him. Mudavadi for instance, can only secure the Luhya vote fully if he is the Nasa flagbearer and may not (fully) convince the Luhya to vote Nasa if it is someone else they are voting for. Again if the process of choosing the flagbearer does not seem fair, then they could easily lose that person&rsquo;s support base to Jubilee. And that is exactly what Jubilee is waiting for. The fallout.Time-to-impactIn 2002, Raila Odinga orchestrated a massive walkout in October &ndash; a month or so to the election. It was so close to the election that Kanu could only react. When all the powerful Kanu men suddenly walked out of Moi and straight to the waiting arms of the struggling Opposition, it instantly threw Kanu at a spin and suddenly it was struggling to find its footing when only a few days earlier the seat was theirs. In risk management, when the time-to-impact of a catastrophic event is very small (like a lightning strike), one can only &lsquo;react&rsquo; and try to mitigate the effects. If Nasa is to name its flagbearer now or if it consolidates itself at this moment, then six months to the elections is a very long time for Jubilee to rearrange themselves and adequately prepare to take on them. Depending on who they name, Jubilee will work out to present the person as one not able to offer anything radically different from Jubilee&rsquo;s record. Kenyan&rsquo;s will get used to him by then and the initial excitement will fizzle out preferring instead &lsquo;zimwi likujualo&hellip;&rsquo; (The devil that know&rsquo;s you.)ResourcesIt goes without saying that Jubilee has deep pockets, not just from the personal resources of the principals but from the massive amounts that have been disappearing in Government pilferage and through infrastructural projects. Resources will play a great part in Kenya&rsquo;s elections and indeed whoever pays the piper (the voter) more, sure calls the tune. Nasa should be careful that the voter doesn&rsquo;t sing Jubilee which has also dropped goodies such as electricity, medical equipment, learning devices and infrastructural projects around the country. It will be hard to drive down a road clearly constructed under Jubilee or switch on power they connected and then lash out at them for not bringing &lsquo;development&rsquo;.The age of voter fatigueThe thorn in the flesh in the Nasa side is the low voter registration in its powerbases. Jubilee has been presenting quite an impressive turnout in the last few days and it remains to be seen what it will look like when the registration closes in the next few days. According to Raila Odinga, the election will be won or lost by the close of voter registration on February 14. He has lately been trying to ensure his prophecy doesn&rsquo;t come true against him. Thanks to the constant (belligerent) electioneering mood we have been since 2002, we have built a massive disdain to anything electoral, it is not apathy but rather voter fatigue. Kenyans have also come to associate elections with strife and conflict. It is important to remember that the person pushed to register, is also much less likely to turn up to vote. The new voterThe character of the Kenyan voter today is far different from that of 2002. The 2017 voter is younger by average age and if born at the turn of the millennium, it gives him a crucial break from Kenya&rsquo;s turbulent past. They are somehow detribalized and have only a weak conception of tribal permutations which both sides of the political divide are depending in. He has come to realize it may not mean much to him. The voter today has massively diverse interests thanks to an average higher education than his 2002 counterpart of the same age. Inundated with technology, entertainment (like &lsquo;gaming&rsquo;), internet, social media and all manner of opportunities, their worldview and perceptions are quite different from his 2002 counterpart. This is why he has an ID but he has not been convinced to register as a voter. There is also the one who has an ID but lets it rest with the Registration authorities or with the Chief and has not bothered to collect it. In Kiambu alone there are over 24,000 uncollected IDs and hundreds of thousands more around the country. You wonder how these people are operating without the crucial document. Even if they eventually register, he may just pull a major surprise in the election.