Chelsea Vs Swansea City, Today 6pm,My Prediction: Blues...4 Swans....1After the threat of relegation Swansea has woken up and their last five fixtures look slightly better than their previous games this season. They have three wins in their last five games; the loses coming in their matches against Arsenal and Manchester City. But they have beaten Liverpool, Southampton and defending champions Leicester in recent weeks which must have boosted their confidence. But who if I may ask will stop &ldquo;champions in waiting&rdquo; Chelsea? They&rsquo;ve lost one game since last year and even though they shocked everyone with their 1-1 draw against Burnley in their last league outing; I wouldn&rsquo;t read too much into that. A small blip in their challenge for the title. Antonio Conte has it in him and his squad to come back bigger and better and smash Swansea by a basketball score-line. I don&rsquo;t know why I bother with Chelsea matches; their results are already written in stone.Leicester City Vs Liverpool, Monday 11pm,My Prediction: Foxes.... 0 Reds...2Oh Leicester City; what have you done? Just because Claudio Ranieri showed you what it feels like to reach the top; you suddenly think you are a top team! Who is fooling who? You are actually right back where you were this time last year and where you are worthy to be. Last year was a fairy tale and will not happen again in our lifetime; understand that! Ranieri saved you from relegation this time last year and I think he would have done it again; though I understand that winning just one league game in 2017 isn&rsquo;t pretty. My feeling is that whoever you bring in now will still get you relegated. Liverpool have been blowing hot and cold this year. They got their first win in the league in 2017 in their last outing against Tottenham and I think that will inspire them to get their challenge for a top four spot back on track. Jurgen Klopp has the players but this year they have lacked the willpower and grit to get the job done. Lucky for them Leicester will be so demotivated and confused and the Reds need to take advantage of that. And I think they will.Man United Vs Southampton, Tomorrow 7:30pmMy Prediction: Red Devils...2 Saints....1Even though Manchester United will be clearly the odds on favourite to win the The EFL Cup 2017; this is a final and anything can happen. United have been on fire over the past couple of weeks with key man Zlatan Ibrahimovic scoring as it its child&rsquo;s play. In the Europa league, however, they seemed to lose their cool this week though they still came out with a narrow 1-0 win knowing that they had a first leg advantage. I guess what the Red Devils are doing are getting the job done. They don&rsquo;t have to be fancy at all; they just need results. Henrikh Mkitaryan limped off during Wednesday&rsquo;s match but he is hopeful to return in time for this match. I doubt he will and that is probably Southampton&rsquo;s only piece of hope. The Saints have been somewhat colourless this season and the highlight of their season is definitely their semi -final victory over Liverpool that saw them qualify for this final. Even though they&rsquo;ll come believing that this tournament belongs to the underdog; I&rsquo;m not banking on them getting one over the Red Devils&mdash;sadly.