Mistrust threatens Jubilee&rsquo;s unity in Mombasa, which might erode the party&rsquo;s efforts to penetrate the perceived ODM stronghold.On Thursday evening, some members allied to Suleiman Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate Anania Mwaboza summoned him to a stormy meeting. They accused him of not protecting their interests.&ldquo;Our team has not been recognised after all we fought for. What are you doing there if you cannot protect us?&rdquo; said Ali Mwatsahu, Mwaboza&rsquo;s trusted lieutenant.The group accused the Shahbal team of dominating positions in the party structures, despite an agreement to share them on a 50-50 basis.Bi Zena Salim said they formed a team behind Mwaboza because they were not recognised by the Shahbal group.During the meeting, senator aspirant Abdulsalaam Kassim had to intervene to calm down the group. Mwaboza, who sat quietly for the first 20 minutes, rose when the meeting almost degenerated into a shouting match.&ldquo;I have heard your concerns. We are one team now. Rest assured I am looking after your interests, just as we are both looking after the interests of all Mombasa residents,&rdquo; Mwaboza said.He said he made a huge sacrifice by agreeing to be Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate for the sake of unity.However, the members demanded to know why they are being &ldquo;left out&rdquo; of important decision-making sessions, saying they are only informed afterward about matters discussed.They want implementation of an agreement they said was reached as part of the deal that led to Mwaboza agreeing to be running mate.The members want nine of them appointed to the interim party leadership.The Shahbal group is also supposed to produce nine members in the 50-50 power sharing agreement that led to the announcement of the Team Shaboza (Shahbal-Mwaboza).Mwaboza said the nine-member teams will be appointed later, when a new party office has been set up. The group does not want the party headquarters to be in Nyali. They say the location is not central and this inconveniences members.The office was set up by Shahbal as his campaign headquarters. A new one has been identified in Ganjoni.Plans are underway to set up the office and the new team of interim officials will be announced during its opening.&ldquo;The nine members will be chosen by you people. I do not even want to know them. I will know them when they are announced then,&rdquo; Mwaboza said.The members said Shahbal&rsquo;s campaign strategies are not popular and are ineffective, a claim Mwaboza denied.