When you see people of high status move from one institution to another, it is a clear indication of things to come.They are people who have been in politics for a very long time and understand how institutions operate.They know Jubilee Party cannot hold free and fair elections. They know the leaders they can trust and they are to be found anywhere but in JP.Main story: Blow to Uhuru as key allies join RailaIt is common knowledge that Jubilee is not afraid to announce their line-up. We have seen it in places like Mombasa and Kisii.They know they are not popular after failing to deliver their promises following the 2013 election. They are announcing their line-up to pick people who can easily say Yes to anything they do: Including the bad policies, which have messed up the economy. They can spend all the money from Eurobond and other scandals but that cannot stop the will of the masses.The people want good leadership. They want an inclusive government. And the leaders who are defecting know which people and leadership can offer this. They can only be found in the opposition.In Jubilee, we have seen one crisis after the other. The health scandal, the striking doctors, famine, and the lecturers&rsquo; strike.For us in ODM, we will remain focussed. We will play our role as the opposition until the August 8 poll, when we win the election.ODM will give a blanket amnesty to all people who were against us, and they are back. Trust the opposition chief to forgive all of them: Those who betrayed him and all those who insulted him. He forgave former President Daniel Moi after detaining him for nine years. He has the interests of Kenyans at heart and will listen to the people and work with everyone to change the lives of Kenyans.A leader brings together the people and works with them. This does not happen in Jubilee, where orders &ldquo;come from above&rdquo;. Intimidation and political blackmail are always directed at the opposition and all other Kenyans.In life, you will always find large waters following a course. It is happening now. Before March 15, we will have tens joining ODM. They will defect in many parts of the country. It is a repeat of what happened in 2002. People at the grassroots know what they want. NASA will bring together all stakeholders to lead the country in inclusive government.MP Suna East