Jubilee politicians were yesterday laughing off the defectors received by the opposition at the weekend as losers who were joining a losing team. To them, the defections by Sam Ongeri and Chirau Mwakwere do not add any value to the opposition. Both were offered jobs by Jubilee after losing in 2013. Ongeri lost to Kisii Senator Chris Obure, who has since defected from ODM to the Jubilee Party, and Mwakwere lost to Boy Juma Boy (who died at the weekend) in Kwale for the same position. Two Jubilee politicians told Corridors they do not understand why the media was making a big deal of two aged defectors who have moved to the opposition and not the winners of the last election who have moved to the ruling party from NASA. ***** As if harassment of constituents and other people who visit their leaders in Parliament by some parliamentary security officers were not enough, an MP who is also a senior House leader was taken aback when a civilian security officer told him off. The MP was set to meet a senior Immigration official, who allegedly was subjected to a humiliating experience after being denied access to Bunge. The security officers refused to let the Immigration man in, even after the MP sent his secretary. It&rsquo;s said the angry MP dashed to the Clerk to complain. Sources whisper to Corridors that several MPs, their friends and constituents have been subjected to such embarrassing treatment. A governor from the North Rift and a Cabinet Secretary have been victims of the rogue staff. The CS told a committee he was late for their meeting because of gate security officers. ***** A woman parliamentary aspirant in a Murang&rsquo;a constituency was last week forced to fire her brother, who has been her personal assistant during campaigns, after another woman aspirant, who is eyeing an MCA seat, threatened to spill the beans about her brother. According to our mole, the lady is said to have drawn up a sworn affidavit detailing how the man assaulted her in an attempted rape when she refused to have an affair with him. It is said the parliamentary aspirant is worried that if the brother continues as her lead campaigner, it is likely to injure her reputation.***** The grabbing of public land in Kericho West seems to be getting out of hand by the day. What is particularly worrying is that the grabbing by so-called private developers is happening in full view of senior police and administration officials who have offices adjacent to the very land that&rsquo;s being being grabbed. Recently, a private developer fenced off a former Ministry of Education office abandoned after the staff were moved to a new building. The same private developers have also grabbed a ministry of the Environment land, where tree nurseries used to be located and all idle plots around the Sosiot police station. The residents now want National Land Commission chairman Muhammed Swazuri and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives to move in and investigate the theft.