MPs will this week summon the Communications Authority bosses to shed more light on why they want to tap the computers of mobile phone companies.Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi on Saturday said they are working to prevent the CA from snooping on Kenyans&rsquo; private conversations on their mobile phones. Mwangangi, a member of the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security, said it is illegal to infringe on Kenyans&rsquo; privacy.Though the matter falls directly under the National Assembly Information Committee, the team is involved because the CA&rsquo;s intended move touches on national security. The CA has denied trying to spy on private conversations. Instead, it says its goal is to protect Kenyans by preventing illegal phones from entering the country, given the terror threats this country faces.&ldquo;As Parliament, we will have to crosscheck facts. If what was reported is true, that is illegal,&rdquo; Mwangangi said at the Whitesands Hotel, Mombasa, on the sidelines of the meeting of a National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security.It is said the CA has requested mobile phone companies in Kenya to allow them to insert devices in their computers to capture data and send them to its offices. This will enable the authorities to eavesdrop on conversations or see text messages sent by mobile phone. But CA boss Francis Wangusi denied this and accused the mobile phone companies of misleading the public.&ldquo;To tell us we are installing this device for accessing confidential data is a total white lie. We at the CA are very disturbed by this. This information is intended to mislead the public,&rdquo; he said on Friday.Wangusi said the Device Management System manages entry of illegal devices and prevents illegal access to information. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re protecting you. The DMS facilitates denial of services that are counterfeits and stolen phones,&rdquo; he said, adding that the authority does not have the time to listen to more than 3 million talk minutes from more than 35 million Kenyans. Mwangangi said the CA can be allowed to tap into people&rsquo;s phones during probes into serious crimes. &ldquo;Every Kenyan cannot be a suspect. You have to deal with specific cases,&rdquo; he said, adding the government must respect privacy.