National Super Alliance leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka have urged the Meru community to rally behind the coalition.The two said they can unite the country because Jubilee has failed to fulfil most of its promises. The politicians addressed meetings in Timau, Makutano shopping center, Meru town and Laare in Igembe North. They said they will introduce robust development programmes, unlike Jubilee, which they say has failed to complete projects launched in the Kibaki administration. Raila said miraa farmers are suffering and the government has instead increased the taxes. They accused Jubilee of not protecting the miraa trade. &ldquo;They gave Sh1 billion to cushion miraa farmers and it has never been utilised in a manner that can help the people. The task force has never produced any results. Within 90 days after we take office we will bring a big difference,&rdquo; Raila said.He added that the government does not have enough funds to complete infrastructure such as roads, citing Lapsset, which he says is behind schedule. &ldquo;They are unable to work and there is no money. Kenyans should not be cheated. You should not be divided on tribal and ethnic lines. Young people are the future of the country,&rdquo; Raila said.Kalonzo said Jubilee does not have the ability to rescue miraa farmers because it does not have the will and ability, besides calling for the accountability of the Sh1 billion.The former VP said Africa has been undergoing a revolution where many of the sitting governments have been removed from power, saying Kenya is headed in the same direction.He criticised the Jubilee administration further, saying it has failed Meru Governor Peter Munya by declining to approve the use of Probase technology. The two leaders were accompanied by Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar and MPs Simba Arati, John Mbadi, Junet Mohamhed and Gladys Wanga.The team stopped the rally at the Meru main matatu stage after a group of rowdy youth barricaded the main entrance, forcing them to pick a different venue. They reversed their motorcade to avoid driving into the group, who were chanting anti-Raila songs.In June last year, Somalia President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud said he wants miraa banned in his country. The move was expected to deal a heavy blow to the already struggling miraa trade in Kenya.Speaking in Mogadishu, Mohamud said the trade and consumption of the stimulant plant has a &ldquo;devastating&rdquo; impact on Somalis and must be banned. &ldquo;We have a series of discussions and consultations and we agreed to end the trade of the narcotic leaf,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We will first act by reducing its trade and finally put an end to it.&rdquo;