As the campaigns for August 8 polls intensify, the race for Wajir governor is also heating up.Incumbent Governor Ahmed Abdullahi of ODM will face off with his 2013 main rival and Kenya&rsquo;s ambassador to Saudi Arabia Mohamed Abdi Mohamud and a former Umma University dean and author Dr Salah Sheikh.A mix of clan balancing, strategic campaigns and individual appeal are the main factors likely to decide the outcome of the poll.Abdullahi, 43, is an accountantand has worked at Deloitte East Africa. His main rival, Ambassador Mohamud, 66, is a teacher turned politician, and has had more than 20 years involvement in the county politics, elected thrice as Wajir East MP.Abdullahi won in 2013 with 40,622 votes against Mohamud&rsquo;s 35,269. Mohamed Ali Mursal, who now supports the incumbent, came third with 22,919 votes on the Kenya National Congress ticket. There was a total of 118,000 voters. GOVERNOR ABDULLAHI&rsquo;S ACHIEVEMENTSAbdullahi is credited with transforming the county, mainly in infrastructure development, water and healthcare provision. In his first term, he constructed the first ever 28km tarmac road in Wajir county, sunk more than 140 boreholes and improved the health sector with four new theatres at the subcounty hospitals, 42 maternity wings and 24 dispensaries.The governor was in November last year appointed water ambassador for all the 47 counties for his efforts in improving water services in Wajir.A World Bank report and subsequent reviews by the Office of Controller of Budget lauded his administration for allocating more cash to development than other counties. CLAN POLITICS AND ENDORSEMENTSAbdullahi was recently endorsed by his Degodia clan elders for a second term. The elders said they were impressed by his performance and approved a second and final term to complete the projects he has started. The Ajuran and other minority clans also endorsed him last week. Many residents admire his managerial skills, and improved services.Abdullahi comes from the Mattan subclan and his main rival, Ambassador Mohamud, comes from the Fai subclan of the Degodia as well. The ambassador served as the Regional Development Authorities minister in the Kibaki administration between 2002-2007, but failed to clinch an elective position both in 2007 and 2013 polls, when he vied for Wajir East MP and governor respectively.The Fai subclan had earlier picked Ugas Sheikh Mohamed as their candidate in August last year but changed their minds three weeks ago and endorsed Mohamud.However, Mohamud&rsquo;s main challenge is the candidacy of his close relative Rashid Kassim, popularly known as RK, who will stand for Wajir East MP. It is currently held by Abass Mohamed, the only Jubilee MP in the county, andcomes from the Masare clan.SHEIKH&rsquo;S UNIQUE STRATEGYSheikh, an author and academician, is also keen on the race, and unveiled his manifesto on January 29.Sheikh&rsquo;s strategy is, however, different from the other two front runners. Although he has acknowledged clan elders&rsquo; support and endorsement, he has refused to associate himself with clan politics. His door-to-door campaign approach and personal appeal to the voters through social media might make inroads, especially among youthful voters and those in urban areas.Sheikh has also refused to seek clan endorsement as is the popular practice and against the tradition in the region, where politics is seen as a men&rsquo;s affair, he will pick a female running mate.Adow Jubat, a veteran journalist and commentator on Northeastern politics, says Wajir&rsquo;s governor race will be decided by the non-Degodia voters &mdash; the Ajuran and the Ogaden communities in the North and South respectively.&ldquo;The Ajuran and the Ogaden will consider many things. The fact that the incumbent is an independent politician who does not play to the tunes of the senior Degodia leaders will be a significant factor,&rdquo; Jubat said.Jubat believes the two communities want a politician they can engage directly. The incumbent has broken ties with most of the current Degodia politicians &ldquo;because he decided to chart his own political path in the county and nationally&rdquo;.A long serving Christian cleric in Wajir who sort anonymity said Abdullahi represents the new face of Wajir, and will easily appeal to many voters.&ldquo;I have been in Wajir for 17 years. Is what has been going on for the past five years complete transformation? No one doubts that. With Abdullahi as governor, Wajir is destined for bigger and better times,&rdquo; the cleric said.But unlike other Northeastern counties, tribal political influence might be reduced by an established criteria of sharing political seats by all the major clans. The Degodia, the Ogaden and the Ajuran will share the governor, the deputy, the senator and the woman representative positions.Currently, the Degodia have the governor and woman rep positions, while the Ajuran and the Ogaden have the deputy governor and the Senate positions respectively. Fatuma Ibrahim is the woman representative, Abdihafid Yarrow is the deputy governor while Abdirahman Ali Hassan is the senator.The lineup of each of the governor aspirant will also play a key role. Political rivalry among the subclans in the constituencies and the wards might indirectly affect the outcome. It is also expected that voters from the non-Somali communities and minority Somalis, who do not belong to the three main clans, will also influence the result, especially in Wajir East. The Kamba, the Ameru, the Aembu, the Arabs and other small Somali clans will provide the swing vote. 2013 OUTCOMEIn 2013, ODM got five MPs, the governor, the Senate, woman representative positions and majority in the county assembly. Jubilee only got one MP.Eldas and Tarbaj MPs Adan Keynan and Mohamed Elmi have since fallen out with Governor Abdullahi. It is believed the two fell out due to the expectation gap amongst themselves. Keynan accuses Abdullahi of running the county as a one-man-show.&ldquo;We formed this government together in 2013, but Abdullahi is now on his own. We will form a coalition which will oust him this year,&rdquo; Keynan is quoted to have said recently.The Eldas MP, together with Senator Hassan and Elmi walked out on Abdullahi last year at public baraza in Wajir town.Hassan and Elmi will, however, not defend their seats in August, but will campaign for Ambassador Mohamud. But the governor believes, the MPs are less significant in the coming elections.