Kenya is full of hypocrites. Hashtags such as #TribelessYouth trend week after week, yet our leaders propagate this immature, dangerous and sensitive topic. Maybe we should all agree on one thing: We&rsquo;ve all been tricked for years by a rotten, phoenix-like government that always comes alive after its execution every election year.The same people have been running the same political positions through divide and conquer. The big guys know that the only way to cling on to power is if they maintain unwavering support fromlarge numbers of citizens. They dementedly perpetuate ethnic divisions for personal gain instead of pursuing the satisfaction of being the custodian who finally did something that is doable &ndash; condemn tribalism and lead by example at no cost. Sadly, the political sphere of the employment industry is so lucrative that your life expectancy is almost guaranteed to increase.African presidents generally live longer. Former US President Barack Obama went from being a vibrant youth to an ancient relic within a mere eight years in office. On the other hand, many would flat out refuse to believe President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe is 92. Obama paid the heavy price of being the arch-trustee of a high quality, satisfying democracy. This is something you don&rsquo;t find from most African suppliers. Four years in the US presidency is like 40 in Zimbabwe.Idi Amin was the stuff of nightmares. A callous human being who, unfortunately for the Ugandans, became President. Upon losing power, one would have expected him to be prosecuted, convicted and executed. But he fled to Saudi Arabia, where he lived a decent life. Such are the perks of having been an exclusive member of a government elite. Apparently there&rsquo;s something so special about it we all concur on its exceptional legitimacy. Charles Taylor didn&rsquo;t get away though. But justice had to be delayed before he was proven truly guilty. If he would have just been summarily convicted, that would have been perceived as sufficient justice served. His victims, however, were forced to watch him day after day defend his integrity.This is because a premature trial and conviction would have played into the hands of a fragile, vulnerable legal system manipulated by the bad guys. Even the law has its shortcomings and that&rsquo;s why we, the ones for whom the law is intended, need to rationally assess the situation and just solve it. Taylor lost his case, was sentenced to life and locked up in a jail many think is too comfortable a place for the likes of him.My point is African politicians are really good at being unerringly inept. Mercifully, Kenya, compared to Liberia, Uganda and Zimbabwe, is not irretrievably messed up: Thank the Lord for that. We are blessed. My pride in this wonderful country still burns bright because we have not lost our country &mdash; yet. No Kenyan politician is as awful as the guys I have mentioned, and that&rsquo;s a win for both our leaders and the people. The foundation for prosperity is still there. From time to time, it is eroded by the tribal doyens, but its mere existence is all that matters. Too bad they have put their individual ambitions first and profit from the sabotage of the state, pushing us towards the edge of the precipice. My main point, however, is we are as much guilty as the government, which we accuse of driving us to the dogs.We have forgotten that the most important thing for Kenya, and any other country for that matter, is development, which is impossible in the absence of unity. Development requires coordination, which requires cooperation, which requires understanding, which requires a peaceful environment, which cannot coexist with tribalism.