JP governor hopefuls are trading accusations over violence that disrupted a football match in Dagoretti on Sunday.Senator Mike Sonko and Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, who want to be governor, have been blamed for causing mayhem at the match attended by rival hopeful Peter KennethDarogetti South MP aspirant John Kiarie, who organised the event, yesterday said Sonko and Waweru stormed the event and drove their convoy right onto the pitch and into football match. This provoked players and hundreds of spectators, leading to mayhem.&ldquo;They came with outsiders, boda bodas and drove straight onto the pitch, disrupting the game between Mutuini Rangers and Shooting Stars,&rdquo; Kiarie said on the phone.Teargas canisters where hurled and guns fired as fans and supporters who had accompanied Sonko and Waweru brawled and threw stones, he said. &ldquo;Not only did they interrupt it, they caused chaos,&rdquo; Kiarie said. Speaking later,Kenneth criticised Sonko and Waweru and said violence was a desperate attempt by his rivals to intimidate him into dropping his bid.Kenneth is a former Gatanga MP and presidential candidate.&ldquo;I hope desperation will stop being the order of the day. It is unfair to have gunshots in a football match. It&rsquo;s unfair to bring theatrics in a football match,&rdquo; he said.Kenneth was the chief guest at the Njoroge Kago Memorial Cup, an annual tournament in the constituency. Kiarie said the event is not political.But Waweru and Sonko denied hijacking the event and causing chaos. They blamed Kenneth. &ldquo;I was here as the senator and Dennis Waweru as area MP. We never insulted anybody. Actually, it is them who incited some youths to stone us,&rdquo; Sonko said.Waweru said, &ldquo;We know where they are from. They were in opposition in 2013 and probably that is where they have learnt the bad habit of throwing stones.&rdquo;Team Nairobi &mdash; Sonko, Waweru, nominated MP Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru &mdash; is threatened by Kenneth and trying to push him out of the race.Although he was born and reared in Nairobi, they call him an outsider because his family is from Murang&rsquo;a. They say he is out of touch.Deputy President William Ruto is said to be supporting Team Nairobi because he too fears Kenneth as a rival for the presidency in 222. The team is expected to name its candidate for governor this week. The choice to face incumbent Evans Kidero of ODM threatens to split JP.