In keeping with his campaign promises, President Trump&rsquo;s administration has placed a temporary ban on citizens from certain countries whose majority of citizens practice the Islamic faith. Many labels have been tagged on this ban. My submission will focus on one of the adjectives used. &lsquo;Discriminatory&rsquo;. Back to the Eden story. Do you think God the creator of all things in Heaven and on Earth discriminates? Did He discriminate against the forbidden tree or against all the other trees? Whatever your perspective, discrimination occurred. This may sound disconcerting to some of you, but The Bible is full of many examples where practicing discrimination is required as a prerequisite to attaining eternal life. What about nature? What does it teach us about discrimination? Social Darwinism reaffirms this intrinsic right by highlighting the competition by plants and animals in their struggle for existence. The animals and plants that survive and thrive while others become extinct are those that nature has favored with superior strength, cunningness or adaptability. Resultantly, natural selection occurs. Socially, it would appear that discrimination is a phenomenon that is &ldquo;too evident for detection and too gross for aggravation&rdquo; (S.Johnson). This is because it is infinitely malleable. It takes on the form of your ethnicity, your faith, your culture, your social status or your politics. Let me illustrate. On one hand, when you choose to marry one girl over another, choose to date a man over a woman, drive a certain car over another, eat a certain meal over another, choose a certain religion over another, support a certain football team or political party over another, are you not discriminating against the unchosen? On the other hand, you can also be the recipient of an act of discrimination. When the interview panel selects another candidate over you; when the insurance company declines to insure your pre-existing condition; when you lose an elective post to your opponent or when as a transvestite you are denied access into the women&rsquo;s public bathroom. Worldwide, every four years, a global event that galvanizes millions of people occurs. This is the Olympics. We have an axiom that the Olympics &lsquo;start&rsquo; when the Kenyan athletes take to the track. Imagine a world where because we are such nice people, who believe, embrace and practice social justice, we demanded that the Olympic games be made non-discriminatory. So despite the years of preparation, the talent and the glory that our Kenyan team brings home, all the athletes would receive the same medal, regardless of their performance. Unacceptable right? As demonstrated, in order to satisfy our human needs and for survival, we discriminate every day. And we are at peace with our actions. Therefore, would we be wrong to deduce that discrimination is an inherent right to life? Is it a natural response for our survival? Now let us draw a parallel with the recent travel ban by the current United States Administration. Lawsuits have been filed, protests have been held, visas have been revoked, and outrage has been expressed in social and mainstream media. So how does the pivot kick in? Who adjudicates that one form of discrimination is unpalatable over another? When do we get to pick sides?This behavioral asymmetry manifests when we become captives of the herd; when our preferences are tacitly and collectively agreed upon in advance on our behalf; when our choices are coerced, and any deviation is met by the threat of violence or isolation; and when a mutual benefit of voluntary exchange is no longer tenable. Inevitably, the mob rule triumphs over the wisdom of crowds. Let us now narrow this to the phenomenon that occurs in our season of elections. As a norm, we have begun witnessing politicians choice of freedom from association. For fear of repercussions of the mob rule, they have assuaged us with all manner of reasons. As expected, depending on which side of the divide, they have been branded traitors, opportunists, heroes and sons. But truth be told. For their political survival, they choose to discriminate an association they have been identified with, to one they believe will ensure perpetuation of their political life. All the while the decision to associate or not, is an individual one. Therefore, perhaps the question we should interrogate is not whether discrimination is prejudicial and unjust; but rather whether as individuals, we have the freedom not to associate whatever the criterion. This is because herds do not have preferences. Individuals do. And even while we may make choices in groups, ultimately we choose as individuals. This explains why, even though the protests against the travel ban are organized in groups, the disparate purpose they serve is twofold: one, primarily as an individual catharsis; and two, to fulfill an individual&rsquo;s aspiration to stand up and be counted. Even the emotions each of these protestors feel and express are not homogenous. Each discriminates which emotion will supplant the others. There is therefore arguably no doubt, that in life, discrimination is an innate Godly prerequisite; a natural evolution; a social inevitability; a political lifeline; an economic shrewdness and is legally enforceable. It is endlessly adaptable. Inescapably, in order to get the best out of life, someone has by definition to lose out. Accordingly, we should not &lsquo;cremate&rsquo; discrimination when it suits us, and &lsquo;resurrect&rsquo; it when it hurts us.In conclusion, the proponents of mob rule, embrace a very dicey slope. They are like two wolves and a sheep deciding what to have for dinner. They do not respect that most democratic constitutions espouse equal rights for all men; and by inference, that our preferences should also be of equal merit. In extending their argument to its logical conclusion, should we prosecute the Muslim for refusing to serve pork to the Christian?&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t waste your criticism on unresisting imbecility&rdquo; &ndash; W.Shakespeare