Rogue officers within the police force are compromised by drugs lords, Deputy William Ruto has finally admitted.Last week, Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa said police raids are almost impossible because drug barons are tipped off and escape. He said the barons pay officers large sums of money to shield them.Officers who shielded the Akasha brothers and two foreigners - a Pakistani and Indian - are yet to be arrested, but face disciplinary action.The police protection led to the delayed extradition of Baktash Akasha, Ibrahim Akasha and foreigners Vijaygiri Anandgiri Goswami and Ghulam Hussein.Marwa said drug smugglers at the Coast have free rein.On September 2015, then as the Mombasa county commissioner, Marwa gave the late Mombasa urban police boss Martin Asin, a 24-hour ultimatum to take action against officers who facilitated the release of Richard Maranga. Maraga was found with 67 sachets of heroin and 50g of bhang, among other drugs. No brief was made.On Sunday, Ruto failed to name the officers or sort of disciplinary action that will be taken against them, leading to speculation.&ldquo;There could be officers that have been compromised by the drug barons &hellip; I do not want to mention some of the disciplinary actions that have been taken&hellip; the process is ongoing. A lot is happening around our security team,&rdquo; he said.Questions whether the proceeds of drugs business would have been used to finance terror activities that rocked the Coast from 2011-12, emerged. &ldquo;There is no option and possibility of contemplating losing this war&hellip; officers especially in this region have been given firm and clear instructions on what needs to be done to deal decisively, firmly and conclusively with war on terror and drugs,&rdquo; Ruto said.&ldquo;It is a war that one feeds into the other. Drug money is being used to finance terrorist activities. And terrorists are facilitating the trade in drugs and therefore is a twin war we must win.&rdquo;Ruto said politicians with clout with electorates are on their radar list.&ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t matter how powerful you are, how much influence they think they have, how much political clout they claim to have, we are firm in our resolve and will deal with them firmly and conclusively,&rdquo; he said. Ruto denied the renewed war on drugs is a wider attempt to win votes from Coast voters.He said the government&rsquo;s position on the war on drugs has been consistent. Ruto said a law has been passed to deny bail to suspected drug barons.&ldquo;Last year, the President presided over the destruction of a ship. The other year we were on the same war path with drug barons. The war will intensifty, not because of the election, but because it is a justified war that will save future generations,&rdquo; he said.While addressing the press in Mombasa, however, Ruto denied reports Kenyan security agencies are unable to arrest drug barons without international help.