On a night designed to showcase the best of Kenyan football, it was Hull City's crop of home-grown youngsters who shone brightest under the KCOM Stadium's floodlights.The SportPesa All Stars had travelled over 4,000 miles for their eagerly-anticipated crack at English opposition but a City XI made up almost exclusively of local rookies had just too much.Josh Tymon, Jarrod Bowen, Greg Olley and Greg Luer all sprinkled their first team experience on proceedings, helping novice team-mates to claim a pleasing victory in a fixture beamed live to an African TV audience.There was even a cameo for club ambassador Dean Windass.The 47-year-old, whose 89 goals for the Tigers spanned almost two decades, emerged as a second-half substitute to delight a crowd of around 5,000.The evening, though, belonged to those much younger than Windass. Hull-born Elliott Holmes, aged just 16, opened the scoring for City with a firm header, before an unfortunate own goal doubled the home team's lead. The All Stars kept pushing to find a deserved consolation but the heroics of goalkeeper Charlie Andrew, who only turned 17 last month, secured City's slender victory.With Marco Silva and his backroom team focusing on Premier League matters and a crucial trip to Leicester this weekend, City were led by two coaches that had helped decide the make-up of their opposition.Richard Naylor and Kris Blakeston, hailing from the Tigers' academy base at Bishop Burton, spent time in Kenya around the turn of the year, first selecting 47 players for a training camp and then whittling down numbers to the 18-man squad that arrived in East Yorkshire last week"This is how dreams start," said Ronald Karauiri, CEO of SportPesa, whose company tied up a multi-million pound deal as City's sponsors at the start of the current season. "We've wanted the players to showcase their abilities and get themselves noticed, while earning an experience that nobody can take from them."This was hardly the Premier League opposition many of the Kenyan youngsters had dreamed of facing, with City's side made up entirely of under-18s and under-23s, but this was still a fixture making headlines back in their homeland. A following of almost 30 journalists had accompanied the All Stars on their journey to England and the exhibition match was also beamed across all of Africa.Hull will have felt a long way from Nairobi for the visitors. Rain and wind swirled around the KCOM Stadium on the grimmest of East Yorkshire evenings and not even the free vuvuzelas handed out could make this feel like home.The All Stars were given it all to do when trailing after 22 minutes. Stephen Akbas' precise cross from the right was perfect for Holmes to nod in the opener but the story was not an altogether happy one. Holmes had only been given his chance off the bench after a concerning injury to Max Sheaf, who required 10 minutes of treatment before being stretchered off. Only when he got back to the dressing room was consciousness regained.City had chances to double their lead, most notably when Ben Adamson's firm header forced a reflex save from Patrick Matasi, but the All Stars were not found wanting for spirit. Mark Makwata's shot from distance brought out an excellent save from Charlie Andrew in the City goal.The visitors continued to press after the interval. Twice they came close from distance, either side of Andrew saving well with his legs to keep out the All Stars skipper Allan Wanga. City creaked holding on their slender advantage but respite came in the 66th minute. A rapid counter attack ended with Ben Hinchcliffe crossing into the six yard box where Haron Shakava sliced into his own net.Windass came off the bench with 15 minutes to play, seven years on from his professional retirement, but the closest the veteran came was a tame free-kick.