International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) have frozen the transfer of allegiance in the sport.A statement from IAAF Council Meeting chaired by IAAF president Sebastian Coe on Monday read: &ldquo;Following a proposal by Sebastian Coe, Council has frozen all new transfers of allegiance in athletics by exercising its powers under the Constitution to revoke Competition Rules 5.2(b), 5.4(d) and 5.4(e) with immediate effect.&ldquo;A working group, set up to study the subject area, will submit proposals for new rules as a matter of urgency and no later than the end of this year,&rdquo; the IAAF said in a statement&ldquo;The decision will not affect the 15 applications for transfer which are already in process,&rdquo; the governing body added. A case in point would be former 10,000m silver medallist Sally Kipyego, who changed her nationality from Kenya to that of the United States of America. The statement further read: &ldquo;It has become abundantly clear with regular multiple transfers of athletes especially from Africa that the present rules are no longer fit for purpose. Athletics, which at it&rsquo;s highest levels of competition is a championship sport based upon national teams, is particularly vulnerable in this respect.&ldquo;Furthermore, the present rules do not offer the protections necessary to the individual athletes involved and are open to abuse,&rdquo; IAAF President, Lord Sebastian Coe said.Hamad Kalkaba Malboum, Africa Area Group representative on the IAAF Council will drive this piece of work alongside Asian counterpart Mr Hiroshi Yokokawa.Kalkaba said: &ldquo;The present situation is wrong. What we have is a wholesale market for African talent open to the highest bidder. Our present rules are being manipulated to the detriment of athletics&rsquo; credibility. Lots of the individual athletes concerned, many of whom are transferred at a young age, do not understand that they are forfeiting their nationality. This must end and a new way forward found which respects the athletes&rsquo; rights and the sports&rsquo; dignity,&rdquo; added Kalkaba. Kenya has in the past two decades lost some of their best talent with countries Bahrain, Qatar and Turkey luring Kenyan athletes to change allegiance and run for their new countries.Kenyan born runners, Ruth Jebet and Eunice Kirwa won Bahrain&rsquo;s only medals at the Rio 2016 Olympics. Jebet won the women&rsquo;s 3000m steeplechase gold with Kirwa taking silver in the women&rsquo;s marathon. Over 30 athletes with Kenyan roots competed for various countries at the Rio Olympics last year including men 5,000m silver winner, Paul Chelimo of the United States, among others.