Being chosen running mate is an achievement, privilege and honour, a clear indication that the other person has chosen you because he trusts you.You have been chosen because he understands your leadership skills and the role you will play in his campaigns.It is an honourable position that requires a lot of intelligence, patience and the person thus appointed as running mate must be popular across the nation.The running mate must appeal to a great deal of the electorate in terms of ideas.And when you are popular it is a clear indication that you have followers and admirers. These are people who believe you can lead them. They understand you and agree with your agenda. They are ready to work with you.You must have been to school, energetic and something of a workaholic. This will help you meet tough deadlines and deliver on your roles competently. You must also be able to communicate in more than the mother tongue.You must not be a sycophant or propagandist to make sober decisions as well as focus on the campaign agenda.You must stand above tribal interests to push for national ideologies. This helps you unite Kenyans and competently set a national development agenda that benefits all Kenyans, irrespective of tribe, race, status, gender and creed.The person chosen as running mate must be popular and electable across the country. He must understand all issues that affect Kenyans and be ready to listen to the boss and the people.He must be able to think fast and come up with timely solutions.He should be in a position to make quick decisions and also defend the boss when required.It is a taxing job that demands all your attention.Balancing the issues is no easy task and you must be prepared and ready to make sacrifices. And you must be available all the time.You must remain focussed on the agenda.The Constitution requires that when one is chosen one must be a person of integrity. You must meet all the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution that talks about integrity. You should listen to the boss as well as his people. And when you are strategizing with the flagbearer, you are in a position to have your ideas on the table and make quick decisions on specific issues.Experience as a leader and politician is good.Musalia Mudavadi's running mate 2013