KNUT has kicked off the recruitment of ECD teachers.The Kenya National Union of Teachers has called on the Council of Governors to finalize on the development of scheme of service for the Early Childhood teachers.Speaking to the Star, KNUT Secretary General, Wilson Sossion, said the scheme of service will streamline the sector and enable the teachers to easily join the union.&ldquo;We will admit those teachers to enjoy all their investments ranging from Saccos to benevolent funds. That is the role of the union. To safeguard the interests of the teachers and that is what we are doing,&rdquo; Sossion said.He said there is need to come up with a standard procedure on how to hire the ECD teachers.Last year, the union asked TSC to gazette the scheme of service and immediately roll out a recruitment drive. Under the scheme, TSC was expected to recruit the teachers with the lowest grade teacher earning Sh 20,000. The scheme of service establishes nine grades of Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) teachers&rsquo; and seven grades of assistant ECDE teachers. Under the nine levels, the chief principal ECDE teacher was classified under job group R. The senior principal ECDE teacher (I and II) was classified under job groups Q and P respectively. The senior ECDE teacher will be in job group M. Other ECDE teachers I, II, III and IV were classified under job group L, K, J, and H. The assistant ECDE teachers, the senior assistant ECDE teacher I was classified as job group L. Sossion has revealed that KNUT was crafting a memorandum to enable the teachers recruited to be absorbed into the union so as to safeguard their interests.The exercise that has already began has so far seen Kisumu County signing the memorandum that admitted the ECD stuff into KNUT.Sossin has further asked the Teachers Service Commission to expedite the registration of those teachers.&ldquo;The Court had directed TSC to come up with a proper register of ECD teachers in all the 47 counties and that is what we are seeking the TSC to do also,&rdquo; he said.