Kanu has once again postponed the National Executive Council meeting today, when it was expected to endorse President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection on August 8. The meeting will now be held tomorrow at the party headquarters.Kenya&rsquo;s oldest party postponed the NEC meeting last Friday. Multiple sources said the party was to join NASA or go it alone in the general election. Uhuru rushed to meet Gideon Moi&rsquo;s family after reports that the Baringo senator was to announce in a press conference his plans to join NASA or go it alone.ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi was negotiating for NASA, while Mama Ngina Kenyatta relies on the long relationship the two families have enjoyed over the years. Gideon is under pressure from both NASA and the Kenyatta family for support.The NASA team has urged Gideon to join them and use the platform to be strongly introduced to national politics. The opposition brigade argues that Jubilee has an agreement that runs up to 2022, with Deputy President William Ruto automatically succeeding Uhuru. &ldquo;The long-awaited meeting of the Kanu National Executive Council, in which the party&rsquo;s chairman Gideon Moi will present a report on the way forward, will be held tomorrow from 10am at the Kanu headquarters in Hurlingham. The report is expected to be debated and adopted at the end of the meeting,&rdquo; said the text invite.The postponed endorsement was to follow a visit by Uhuru to former President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s home in Kabarnet Gardens, Nairobi. The details of the meeting remain scanty. There is tension in the Jubilee Party over negotiations between Uhuru and Gideon.&ldquo;We will look into the reports from NASA and Jubilee and decide the way forward as a party. Kanu is focussed on building an inclusive government with the interests of Kenyans at heart,&rdquo; Kanu secretary general Nick Salat said. Ruto is not being involved because of the political supremacy battle between him and Gideon to control the vote-rich Rift Valley.West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo (Kanu) has warned that Jubilee leaders will go home by 10am on polling day, an indication of the fierce political battle between Jubilee and Kanu. Lonyangapuo said Kanu has won the trust of Rift Valley voters and plans to capture the majority of MCA, MP, senator and governor seats.&ldquo;We shall leave no room for Jubilee leaders in this region,&rdquo; Lonyangapuo said, citing Jubilee&rsquo;s unfulfilled development pledges. Rutos&rsquo; close allies threatened to join the opposition at the weekend if a 2013 URP and TNA agreement, which is at the Registrar of Political parties, is not respected. Uhuru and Ruto are to equally share slots in the government, with both supporting each other for two terms. After dissolving TNA and URP, Jubilee will field candidates for all elective positions.