Many small parties in Western and Nyanza expect ODM to conduct shambolic primaries so they can reap from the fallout &mdash; and current fear of bungled nominations.&ldquo;Opportunist parties praying for shambolic nominations in ODM might as well wait for eternity,&rdquo; ODM national chairman John Mbadi yesterday told he star.the Suba MP commented as it emerged ODM faces increased competition in its Western and Nyanza backyards, as new outfits emerge and woo ODM backers.Many of them support ODM chief Raila Odinga for President, though they will field candidates for other seats,Mbadi said the parties will be shocked as ODM cannot allow another bungled process. He said ODM will have credible nominations to avoid any fallout that would benefit its rivals.Mbadi said most of the emerging parties in the region have no grassroots support and cannot mount a serious challenge to ODM, hence, their &ldquo;selfish&rdquo; agendas. He urged them to popularise themselves.&ldquo;The support ODM gets from Kenyans is due to its ideoloty. Opportunist parties will wait for fallout, but that will not happen to ODM this time round,&rdquo; Mbadi said.The Suba MP told Western and Nyanza residents to be wary of politicians who want to use Raila&rsquo;s name to ascend to power .&ldquo;It&rsquo;s clear some of these people are driven by selfish agendas. They won&rsquo;t champion reforms that ODM stands for but only use Raila&rsquo;s name so they can be elected,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I urge our people not to fall for their trickery.&rdquo;New outfits in Western and Nyanza include the Federal Party of Kenya, the Citizens&rsquo; Conventions Party, the Green Congress Party of Kenya, the Movement for Democratic Growth, the Labour Party of Kenya and ANC .Convention Peoples&rsquo; Party leader Grace Akumu yesterday said parties emerging in the region are building a democratic space. She urged residents to join them as that would mean their democracy has come of age. Akumu said Raila&rsquo; stands a good chance of winning the presidency if Western and Nyanza residents allow other parties to take root.Many outfits aid raila? &ldquo;There is a high possibility of a large voter turnout if other parties are allowed to support a Raila presidency. Election is won on numbers, not only on party support,&rdquo; she said.Federal Party of Kenya deputy party leader Joel Otuoma said his party will campaign for the NASA presidential candidate. &ldquo;Despite fielding candidates in other positions, we will support NASA&rsquo;s pick,&rdquo; Otuoma said.Former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo, who recently launched his GCK party, plans to run for Homa Bay Town MP on its ticket. He said aspirants and elected leaders are interested.Ogindo said not all hopefuls are comfortable in major parties and fear being locked out at the nominations.In Kisii, various parties will field candidates. They include the People&rsquo;s Democratic Party, Progressive Party of Kenya, the Kenya Social Congress Party and the Kenya National Congress.South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya, who wants to unseat Kisii Governor James Ongwae, has ditched ODM for the Kenya National Congress. He supports Raila for President.PPK national chairman Evans Misati said they have received aspirants seeking all positions, but President.He said most hopefuls fear nominations in their parties will be bungled. The Election Laws bar party hopping after nominations. This has prompted politicians to look for alternative party tickets to avoid being locked out of the August poll.Many aspirants are keen on going all the way to the ballot and won&rsquo;t let primaries stand in their way.