I will insist, as long as I can read and write, to explain to Kenyans how they are governed. That is what I was trained to do. To answer such questions as "Who governs?" "Where do governors derive their authority and power to govern?" "What do people do when they are badly governed?" "Can people choose to be badly governed and be happy about it?" "What about when government misuses the power they have been given to use public resources in public interest and it fails to do so: what happens?"These are questions that have preoccupied political theorists and political philosophers from time immemorial and they continue to puzzle and confront us all the time. Attempts to answer them have led to the rise of various theories, philosophies, political movements and revolutionary upsurges. One of the theories of government which has influenced how people are governed for several centuries is that of democracy and its numerous versions and applications. The other is that of Marxism which gave rise to its various versions and applications: Marxism, Marxism-Leninism, Marxism-Leninism and Mao Tse Tung Thought, African Socialism, Scientific Socialism, Social Democracy and Socialism with Chinese Characteristics.I will not today delve into a discussion of these theories of government or of the state and how they relate to how we analyse how Kenyans are governed. But I will go a little further and see how political theory can be enriched by a keener understanding and appreciation of how other disciplines in the social sciences seek to tell us how we are governed. One of these disciplines is economics, and particularly its less obscure offspring called "political economy".Now one of the few social scientists in Kenya who is thoroughly grounded in economic theory but who seeks to explain to us how we are governed from the point of departure of "political economy" is my friend and colleague David Ndii. I say this not to flatter him but to encourage the reader to look at a very recent article that David wrote on what I choose to call "corruption, debt and authoritarian governance in Kenya." The article was entitled "Sooner or later, our debt ladder will run out of rungs," and it appeared on February 8, 2017, in "the Daily Nation."And when it does, something very interesting will begin to unravel which you may not be aware of now: that the kind of governance we are entertaining now is not sustainable whether you think it is your time to eat or not; or that there is no other better alternative, hence we rather stick to this one; or that you simply want to live and let live. If we do not go beyond these "middle class lazy and opportunistic thoughts" and act imaginatively to change our destiny, we are very likely to enter into a period of socio-economic decay and that process of decay may continue for decades and decades although we shall be"periodically electing" a government every five years. If in doubt ask those from Zimbabwe; and if you speak Spanish, ask a brother or sister from Equatorial Guinea. Please read Ndii's article and digest it.But why, then, do I associate Ndii's article with authoritarian governance and corruption when Ndii was only teaching us about debt, debt servicing and debt repayment in Kenya? The reason is very simple. When I read Ndii I realised that the Jubilee government zeal to grab foreign negotiated commercial debt has something to do with the "kick backs" bureaucrats and the ruling elites get when they negotiate these commercial loans. This is called corruption.First they convince us that the loans are good because they will finance the Standard Gauge Railway that we badly need, from Mombasa to Malaba. Then we realise that, compared to other experiences elsewhere, the railway is not giving us value for money, either in terms of the terms at which we are going to pay our debt or the economic returns we are likely to get when the project is complete and in use. We ourselves, our children and our grand children are likely to be repaying this debt without really getting tangible benefits from it. Yes, we needed the railway: but did it have to cost that much? Were there alternatives open to the government, like the World Bank for example, from which we could have borrowed? Could we have negotiated with the Germans or the Spanish to do the same job on better terms?The World Bank could have given us a cheaper debt to service on a much longer repayment period. Why didn't our government consider that option? Was it available? Ndii tells us that the Jubilee government made a very conscious decision which has put us into an extremely painful debt servicing and repayment trap.He writes: "In summary, the Jubilee administration's debt strategy has entailed not just a huge increase in debt but also a shift from cheaper to more expensive foreign debt and from longer term to short term on both the domestic and foreign borrowing"? The question is why? In whose interest? Does this mean that this rather " painful choice" is a necessary sacrifice because it will be good for us in the long run? How long is the long run? When we cannot at any time repay the debt, how does the government repay when the interest or principal is due?According to Ndii the government borrows more off shore, either as syndicated loans or Eurobonds. And if you ask them why they have borrowed they lie about it. If you discover the lie and you expose it they will brand you unpatriotic. That is how authoritarian regimes behave. Democratic governments tend not to behave like that. Or when they do there are accountability systems, institutions and processes which can catch them and make them explain their deeds.When leaders are caught telling lies or stealing from the public till they are impeached, or forced to resign. That is what the South Korean President is facing at the moment. In our case, in spite of all the detailed analyses that people like Ndii may undertake, nothing happens. In fact, the so called "projects" implemented through corruption-laden contracts and borrowings are unveiled, launched and re-launched as naive citizens clap and swagger in appreciation. What kind of governance is this? It is authoritarian, and it can be autocratic or even popular. It can selectively choose its segment of popularity and simply impose its autocracy or hegemony on the rest of society. That is the function of the ideology of tribalism in authoritarian regimes legitimised through competitive and semi-competitive elections. It authoritarian rulers obtain collective silence of the political elites through tribal allegiance, overt or presumed, and convert this to active consent, willingly or unwillingly. This is called segmental authoritarianism.Unlike democracy, authoritarian rule will always seek to enforce obedience in an autocratic manner and not entertain personal freedoms or too much public say on government matters. Even where democratic constitutions are preferred by the people, authoritarian leaders will always seek to perpetuate themselves in power by "bending constitutions and constitutional procedures" to perpetuate their rule because they need state power to continue with the economic privileges, like kick backs and ill gotten wealth, derived from the occupation of state power.Now you understand the struggles over the constitution and why the recently negotiated amendments to the electoral laws by a bipartisan parliamentary committee had to be unilaterally changed by Jubilee to seek to maintain authoritarian rule notwithstanding a democratic constitution since 2010. The secret is not to be found in the so-called "historical political rivalry between the Luos and the Kikuyus", nor is it to be simply understood by watching Mutahi Ngunyi's "Fifth Estate" comedies of error, but by carefully reading and understanding such work as those of David Ndii. If we go on with the way Jubilee is running or ruining our economy, we shall soon find ourselves in a deeper hole of indebtedness, fueled by more corruption and sealed by an even more determined authoritarian regime. We are in that hole already: let us stop digging.