The law barring politicians from ditching parties after losing nominations has triggered a wave of defections in the wider Western region.Aspirants are opting for smaller parties, where they are assured of direct nomination. This in contrast with major parties in which they will have to compete with others for the tickets.In Busia, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong is already in talks with Ford Kenya officials to secure the party ticket, as competition for the ODM ticket intensifies. Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, himself the ODM vice chairperson, is seen as Ojaamong&rsquo;s closest competitor.Interestingly, Otuoma is also said to be in talks with ANC, where he would seek refuge in case the race for the ODM ticket becomes too arduous.The two are geared up to stay in the race to the end and are not leaving anything to chance. They are ready for the August 8 polls, even if it entails jumping ship.In Siaya, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo is between a rock and a hard place: to run for governor on the ODM ticket or jump ship to Ford Kenya.The Siaya top seat has attracted five contenders. They are incumbent Cornell Rasanga, Carey Orege, William Oduol, James Orengo and Gumbo. They all want the ODM ticket as the party holds sway in the county.If Gumbo decides to ditch the party, he will avoid the hassles that come with intense party primaries and be able to focus on the August 8 polls.Ugenya MP David Ochieng has already ditched ODM for MDG to avoid being locked out at the nomination stage. His main challenger is David Ohito who is seeking the ODM ticket.Ochieng, while quitting ODM on January 13, said he decided to leave because of the need to avoid any altercation at the nomination. He said he almost lost his life during the 2013 nominations.Ochieng is certain of being on the ballot, only awaiting those who will be fronted by other parties.In Alego Usonga constituency, five aspirants want to unseat MP Omondi Muluan. The legislator was elected on the Wiper ticket. He came back to ODM after his election, but has considered going back to the Kalonzo Musyoka-led outfit. In Migori, Senator Wilfred Machage has defected from ODM to DP to secure a direct ticket. He is not defending his seat. Instead, he is in the race for Kuria West MP. Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo, who joined ODM from Ford Kenya during Raila Odinga&rsquo;s rally in Migori, is still weighing his options. He has yet to pay the ODM nomination fee. This leaves him with the possibility of going back to Ford Kenya for a direct ticket.Karachuonyo MP James Rege has also defected from ODM to JP, where he is almost guaranteed direct nomination. He is the only Jubilee aspirant in the area. Former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo ditched ODM for the Green Congress of Kenya on whose ticket he will use on August 8. He said the party is affiliated to Cord-NASA.South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya ditched ODM for the Kenya Social Congress on whose ticket he will run for Kisii governor. He has, however, said he supports Raila&rsquo;s presidential bid. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi ditched ODM for JP and intends to run for governor.Some hopefuls may have difficulty selling their new political outfits and allegiance in a region perceived to be an ODM stronghold.