Operations at the Webuye Rai Paper Mills are still on, the factory management insists, dismissing claims that it has stopped functioning barely two months after it was relaunched by President Uhuru Kenyatta.Factory manager Naga Shankar yesterday said occasional closures experienced at the paper-manufacturing plant recently were due to ongoing repairs &ldquo;as the facility had been dilapidated&rdquo;.&ldquo;We had some quality problems but we have rectified all of them. The roof sheeting was completely damaged. We are removing asbestos and replacing with metal sheeting. After completing pulp machine section we have started,&rdquo; Shankar said in a statement yesterday.Uhuru reopened the factory, formerly Pan Paper Mills, on December 15 last year after it was placed under receivership 10 years ago. It is now managed by Rai Group of Companies which signed a Sh900 million sale and purchase agreement with the receiver managers.The management said only one line out of four is working, and it will take about two years for the mill to operate fully as most of the machines will have to be replaced.Shankar said for the moment the plant can only produce brown paper from recycled paper (used for packaging).Production of paper from wood is expected to resume upon completion of the other three production lines.Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka this week toured the factory to assess the progress in the renovation of the facility. He asked politicians to refrain from politicising the mill. &ldquo;PanPaper had been down for over nine years, therefore there are a lot of renovations going on and we had serious vandalism of the water pipes which made the plant to stop functioning. Then they had to replace the roofs. But as you can see, the mill is already running,&rdquo; he said.The Rai Group has so far pumped in some Sh 24 million into the renovation works. It expects to spend up to Sh6 billion in the next six years. The mill has employed 400 permanent workers and 200 on contract, the management says, with the factory producing a paper tonnage of between 50 and 60 tonnes per day.