SHOULD Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka drop his push to be NASA flagbearer in favour of his ODM counterpart Raila Odinga? A Wiper woman MP was overheard telling her ODM colleague that Kalonzo can only sacrifice for the last time upon a document that Raila will support him in 2022. It is said the ODM legislators had cornered the MP in an argument on the best candidate to defeat Jubilee among the four NASA flagbearer hopefuls. Word has it that Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula was the first to be ruled out. Identifying the flagbearer has increasingly become a hard nut to crack in the opposition, following the entry of Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi. The ODM lawmakers, capitalising on their numbers, maintained that their leader was the best bet to send President Uhuru Kenyatta home at the August 8 poll. This forced the helpless Wiper MP to bow to pressure and say her leader can only sacrifice one last time. THAT elective politics should be competitive is undisputed. But the tendency by some political kingpins and maestros to plant their relatives and cronies to unseat politicians who have unsettled their influence and ego is unacceptable. One-time Raila Odinga aide Eliud Owalo is an unhappy man. Reason? His former boss is fronting his daughter Rosemary in the race for Kibra MP to unseat Ken Okoth. Owalo, a management consultant who shrugged off the power and influence around the ex-premier to chart his own political career, believes that with Rosemary Odinga on the ballot the nominations will be rigged in her favour. He has vowed to floor both Okoth and Rosemary in the ODM primaries, maintaining that he will not chicken out of the race as many want him to do. &ldquo;I will go all the way, I rarely get either intimidated or threatened, I believe in myself and will square it out with them at the ballot,&rdquo; Owalo said. HAS Kisii Governor James Ongwae dumped county woman representative Mary Otara? Well, observers opine that the county chief has joined forces Nominated Senator Janet Ong&rsquo;era - Otara&rsquo;s rival in the race. The newfound unity is aimed at buttressing ODM within the county ahead of the primaries set for next month. However, critics argue that a scheme by some county officials to front their preferred candidates for various positions could backfire against unity. A number of former ODM pillars in the region, uncomfortable with the arrangement, are not keen on defending their seats or contesting on the Orange party ticket for fear of rigging. Some parties like Manson Nyamweya&rsquo;s KNC are angling for defectors and could give some leaders a run for their money.