President Uhuru Kenyatta has said his government is going to eliminate drug barons who have wiped out the Coast population. &nbsp; Their days are numbered, Uhuru warned at GPO Posta in Mombasa on Tuesday , adding authorities will not hunt "small fish". &ldquo;We shall not allow the lives of youth and those of their families to be destroyed by drug barons...and youth should look for jobs and shun the menace,&rdquo; he said. About 100,000 youths in the Coast region are said to be addicted to drugs. Uhuru noted that the county has been turned into a drugs capital so immediate action must be taken. His call came after four men charged with running a heroin trafficking ring were extradited to the United States. Baktash Akasha and his brother Ibrahim were arrested two years ago alongside foreigners Gulam Hussein and Vijaygiri Goswami, in a US-led sting operation. Read: Akasha sons, two foreigners extradited to US - police sourceBut this is not the first time the President has talked tough regarding the war on drugs.In August 2015, Uhuru ordered a crackdown on drugs, dealers and their dens at the Coast.He told local politicians to work with security forces to ensure all dens are eliminated, the same way illicit brew joints were destroyed in Central Kenya and Nairobi.Read: Uhuru orders crackdown on drugs in CoastAlso read: A presidential order on drug abuse at the Coast was long overdueThis was exactly a year after Uhuru personally led an operation to blow up a ship and destroy heroin worth more than Sh1 billion. The President, aboard a Kenya Air Force chopper, accompanied the Kenya Navy in their modern warship KNS Jasiri. Journalists, security personnel and anti-narcotics officials witnessed the well-coordinated exercise at the Indian Ocean. Another vessel, MV Baby Iris, was blown up in a controlled explosion after being loaded with explosives. Police said the yacht was laden with heroin.Critics have said the war on drugs is a tall order but government spokesman Eric Kiraithe and Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa have been determined, if their press conferences are anything to go by.Kiraithe said the government was closing in on politicians linked to drug trafficking. He said they should not cry political foul play when they are prosecuted, as Kenyans are tired of the rhetoric. [AUDIO] Only drug dealers want many guns, says MarwaRead: State closing in on drug-dealer politicians, Kiraithe warnsFew days later, police launched an operation to flash them out. This led to the brief arrest of Ibrahim Kharti, a man Marwa branded a &ldquo;potential drug baron&rdquo;.But his lawyer Mohamed Balala wrote to the regional police boss restraining him from referring to his client as a drug dealer and demanded an apology.&nbsp;Marwa is yet to issue one. The regional coordinator said his war was on drug dealers and those with illegal weapons. He said only traffickers need many guns to protect the drugs they deal in. Regarding the August 8 general election, Uhuru said youths should not bow to politicians who only hire them to cause violence.He also lashed out at politicians propagating divisive politics.&ldquo;Let us focus on uniting this nation instead of dividing it,&rdquo; he said.