Rigging subverts and negates elections and without free and fair election or rejection of leaders, there can be no democracy, only dictatorship. Indeed, rigging is the worst enemy of democracy. As we head toward elections in Kenya, there is enormous fear that, both nomination and general elections may not be free and fair. How are elections rigged in Kenya? Votes are stolen directly by introducing marked ballot papers as cast ballots when they are not. Election officers mark ballot papers for old voters against candidates they do not intend to vote for. Ballot papers are marked for voters who don&rsquo;t exist. Nomination certificates are given to persons who did not win majority votes in the election.It is also rigging when people are misled to think that their long term problems can be solved by money they are given to vote for certain candidates or by a candidate of our ethnic community who in reality has no such intention rather than leave voters to vote for candidates who have the intention and capacity to solve their problems and should therefore be voted for. We also rig elections when we kill the spirit of good leaders and throw voters under the bus of bad leaders who deserve no election. Once upon a time according to the Bible, trees had an election. Trees then approached all the good leaders for leadership but they refused. When the Olive tree was approached it said no. When the Cedar tree was requested to lead, it refused. When the Vine tree was also approached, it too said no. Desperate, trees went to the thorn tree. The thorn tree agreed after warning trees of the pain of its thorns and fire and proceeded to subject trees to insufferable oppression of its dictatorship. This is the fate that Kenyans suffer each time a good leader rejects the offer of leadership from people forcing them to elect backward, hopeless, thieving and corrupt leaders because there are no good leaders ready to lead them for fear of sacrifices that go with good leadership. It is rigging for good leaders to reject leadership forcing people to only vote for bad leaders.But it is not only reluctant good leaders who commit involuntary rigging of elections. Masses of voters also rig elections against their best interests when they trust their future and destiny upon corrupt and dishonest leaders whose promises of liberation mean death. Once a scorpion wanted to cross a river but could not because it cannot swim. Subsequently the scorpion requested a frog to carry him across the river. But the frog was skeptical and wondered how he could carry the scorpion across the river without being stung and killed. The scorpion swore he could never sting a frog who carried him while they were in the river since that would also kill him. When the scorpion vowed he was not suicidal, the frog believed and carried him across the river. When they reached the middle of the river, involuntarily the scorpion stung the frog. As the frog started to drown, he asked the scorpion how he could sting him while they were still in the river contrary to his promise. The scorpion answered he never wanted to sting the frog as he too would drown and die but only did so because it was natural to him. But as the scorpion uttered his last words both him and the frog drowned with the frog wondering how he could have trusted the scorpion not to sting him?Trust of the frog is the trust Kenyan masses have in their leaders that if they vote to take them to parliament, they will not betray and kill them. However, election after election, leaders always betray and kill them mid stream. The trust masses have in their ethnic leaders is a form of rigging elections because it clogs their sense of judgment making them vote for leaders who make mince meat of them though they come from the same ethnic community or tribe. Widespread and historical rigging of elections is the genesis of all the fear of rigging that today engulfs the whole country despite repeated assurances from leaders that elections will be free, fair and credible. What should Kenyans do to ensure elections without rigging?When Kenya became independent, it cured its lack of judges and lawyers by borrowing some from Commonwealth countries who continued to serve them until she had enough of her own. At the risk of sounding unpatriotic, I believe we would have more credible, free and fair elections if we borrow election experts from Commonwealth countries to supervise our coming elections.