The Labour Court on Friday ordered Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli to convene meetings to end the doctors&rsquo; strike in its 61st day. Atwoli said he never fails.He will be joined as co-chair by the Kenya National Commission on Human rights.The court also gave doctors&rsquo; union officials &mdash; ordered to jail for contempt &mdash; another seven days&rsquo; reprieve to resolve the impasse that has caused widespread suffering.After the session, doctors said they would not return to work unless their demands are met.Unions are demanding a 300 per cent pay increment for doctors and better working conditions.More than 5,000 doctors of public hospitals went on strike in December last year, demanding implementation of the CBA signed in 2013. On Friday, Justice Hellen Wasilwa directed the meetings be convened by Atwoli and co-chaired by the KNCHR.Present will be representatives each of the Council of Governors, the Attorney General, the ministries of Finance and Labour, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, the Public Service Commission, the Federation of Kenyan Employees and the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union. Only two or three representativs will be allowed. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t have all KMPDU officials at the meeting. Negotiations can&rsquo;t go on with everybody present,&rdquo; Wasilwa said. She said interventions by Cotu and the human rights watchdog came late, but she will give them a chance. &ldquo;We are aware of what Kenyans are going through. Within these seven days, we will be in a position to negotiate,&rdquo; Atwoli said.He told the court he never fails and the talks will be fruitful.Human rights watchdog lawyer Lempaa Suyinka said they have been in discussion with the doctors.&ldquo;There has been no mediator. As the two parties continue with the standoff, it is that child, that woman, that vulnerable member of the society that is affected,&rdquo; he said.The CoG and the AG were, however, opposed to the extension and reprieve from jail, calling it a mockery of the court.&ldquo;Atwoli, you have said you never lose. I hope you will not lose this battle because I am entrusting this to you to resolve and report back within seven days, as you&rsquo;ve asked,&rdquo; she said.Wasilwa said if by February 13 there&rsquo;s be no solution, the court will make its statement. After the session, doctors&rsquo; union secretary general Ouma Oluga said they will only return to work if their demands are met.He said they have been subjected to a dishonest and callous argument from many government agencies whose only bargaining tool is that they should go back to work.&ldquo;This time, we hope people will engage in good faith. We have presented seven different ways for the CBA tobe implemented, but nothing has been done,&rdquo; Oluga said He said the private sector has been stubborn, as cartels prevent normalcy in the public health sector. Oluga said some senators in private healthcare are protecting their interests and frustrating their efforts.&ldquo;Right now every Kenyans know who the cartels are. &ldquo;They are keeping their healthcare expensive and making sure the public health system isn&rsquo;t back to normalcy,&rdquo; he said.