I call myself an all-weather journalist, mainly due to the passion I have for journalism. I believe my God-given purpose towards making a positive impact in the society is through journalism and, as such, I stop at nothing to practise it. Though very passionate about TV newsroom media practice, my equally strong passion for writing landed me a job at JKUAT as a content officer, a job I&rsquo;ve come to really enjoy. My job entails managing the official university blog and contributing articles to the university website and publications.WEEKDAYS 5AM-7.30PMI wake up at 5am, thank God for another day, then go for a morning run. I don&rsquo;t want to imagine a world where I have a kitambi. Plus I believe it&rsquo;s important to keep fit. I then get back to the house, do the basic preparations, take a cold shower, then warm my food. Yes, my breakfast is always an extension of my supper from the previous night. I believe in the power of a heavy breakfast. I then head out to work. Since I live and work in Juja, I usually leave my house slightly before 8am and cycle to work.8AM-5PMThis is my prescribed work timeline, and it&rsquo;s pretty similar for all the weekdays. My typical day usually revolves around conducting interviews, attending and documenting university functions, attending some student activities, and finally sitting behind my desk to write all about it. I then publish the stories on the university online platforms and social media sites. In most cases, I leave for home way past 5pm, depending on my workload. So I can tentatively say my day ends at 6PM.6PM-10PMAt six, I leave work for my place, pass by the market and decide on which brand of mboga za kienyeji will go with my chosen meal of that evening, and then get to the house. I prefer all my meals accompanied by vegetables. I then get to the house, do the cooking (I&rsquo;m an eligible bachelor made of pure original husband material), as I catch up with news of the day. I then head to bed by around 10PM, depending on my nocturnal stamina.WEEKENDSBeing a staunch Seventh Day Adventist, my Saturdays are dedicated to Church and any other humanitarian activities that may come up in my plans. The rest of the day and a better part of the next is spent catching up with the latest episodes of my favourite series. My Sundays are usually a mix of doing laundry (the most painful), hanging out with friends, cycling or just enjoying my own company. I find myself pretty fun to hang out with. My greatest inspiration? Comes from the proven fact that it&rsquo;s the mindset that separates the best from the rest. I believe every possible conclusion to our destiny is within our reach to manipulate and determine. It all comes down to mindset.