AS the official campaigns edge ever closer, leaders in Kiambu county have taken their bids a notch higher. The leaders have formed Super Alliances ahead of August 8. Kiambu Governor William Kabogo (pictured) was spotted at a Nairobi hotel last Saturday in a meeting that lasted more than 2 hours with his 2013 arch-rival James Nyoro. His rival, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu, was holed up in another meeting &ndash; with aspirant David Gakuyo and Ngewa MCA Karung&rsquo;o Thang&rsquo;wa &ndash; at a Thika Road hotel trying to craft a pact that would give them a victory on Election Day. ***** JUBILEE Party strategists are a worried lot in the face of the growing revolt against President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection vehicle. Though the ruling party appears to be making inroads in various parts of the country, the strategists are worried about the revolt in Jubilee&rsquo;s own strongholds. They are specifically worried about Meru and other areas such as Samburu, where the President was told by some of the leaders that putting into one vehicle where some leaders are already pretending to be the ones calling the shots was likely to face difficulties in getting people to support him. The leaders asked the President to ensure that there are clean, free and fair nominations ahead of the election. ***** TWO Jubilee Party aspirants for Nairobi Governor are slowly retreating after the entry of former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. The two, who are part of Team Nairobi, believe that it may be impossible to contest against Kenneth. Our moles say that the two are now trying to seek audience with the President and his deputy and see what other opportunities exist for them ahead of Election Day.***** THE protocol followed at Bomet Stadium during the first joint NASA rally left many confused on what the message was. Unlike in the past, ODM leader Raila Odinga spoke before Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi though the former Prime Minister&rsquo;s speech appeared to be the highlight of the event. A group of six Cord enthusiasts, including two sitting Wiper MPs and an ODM strategist, discussing the day&rsquo;s events at a Nairobi hotel, expressed their concerns over the protocol and how it was likely to confuse their supporters. The Wiper MPs were of the opinion that their boss was being played and would be forced to settle for a lesser position. They also expressed concern that their principals seem to still be attached to their respective parties, instead of selling the NASA outfit.