Demand for flowers in the lucrative European Union market rose by about five per cent ahead of Valentine's Day today, flower producers said yesterday. The slow growth has been attributed to the move by Britain to withdraw from the EU through a referendum vote in June 2016, a move which has weakened the sterling pound. George Onyango, the human resource manager at Van Den Berg flower farm, said the demand for roses has shot up by 20 per cent compared to December last year. &ldquo;Demand for the flowers have shot up by 20 per cent as from December as Valentine is always our peak season,&rdquo; he said. Speaking during a tour of the farm that produces 500,000 roses daily, Onyango said that the sector had a bright future despite a myriad of challenges facing the producers. &ldquo;Roses love sunny and warm conditions and the ongoing dry weather which has negatively affected parts of the country has turned out to be a blessing for the flower farmers,&rdquo; he said. He was, however, quick to point out the failure to sign the Economic Partnership Agreement as a major threat to the lucrative sector. Onyango warned that failure to sign the agreement in time will see the country&rsquo;s floriculture product slapped with a new tax making them less competitive in the market. &ldquo;If slapped with a new tax, our products will become less competitive and give an advantage to our competitors like Ethiopia,&rdquo; he said. The sentiments were echoed by Jane Ngige, the chief executive of the Kenya Flower Council, the lobby for large-scale producers, who said they are keenly following the issue of the agreement. &ldquo;The East African Community summit will be meeting next month and we are looking forward to this meeting where the issue of EPA will be addressed,&rdquo; she said. Ngige admitted that there was minimal change in demand this Valentine's compared to last year but was quick to note that the sector was doing well. &ldquo;Though production is on the rise due to the conducive weather for flowers, we saw a marginal rise in demand for flowers ahead of Valentine,&rdquo; she said. Speaking on the phone, Ngige said the move by Britain to withdraw from the EU had devalued the sterling pound by 15 per cent, translating into lower returns for farmers. &ldquo;Farmers are now using more cash on water due to the ongoing drought, but as projected the sector is gradually growing despite emerging challenges,&rdquo; she said.