The Employment and Labour Relations Court yesterday overturned a decision that saw the removal of John Biiy as the Kenya National Union of Nurses&rsquo; chairperson.Justice Monica Mbaru ordered that Biiy remain in office until a suit filed in court is concluded.Justice Hellen Wasilwa on Thursday last week issued orders deferring to a later date a disciplinary meeting against Biiy that was scheduled for February 3 so he could have ample time to defend himself. She also directed the matter and other issues pending before her be heard yesterday before judge Mbaru after all parties are given adequate notices and opportunity to attend.However, Knun secretary general Seth Panyako, who had allegedly organised the meeting, defied the order and dismissed Biiy from office without according him time to defend himself as directed. Mbaru said the meeting held by Panyako was illegal and convened contrary to the orders issued by the court. The Local Authorities Provident Fund Organisation was enjoined in the suit as an interested party. The organisation, through Lawyer Moses Odera, requested to be allowed to participate after its name was mentioned in court documents.Odera said it is bound to be affected by any order and outcome of the suit.Biiy had sued Panyako, the registrar of trade unions and Knun. On Thursday last week, Wasilwa certified the matter as urgent The dispute between the two parties arose after Biiy filed an application seeking to have Panyako suspended from office as secretary general of the union. He wanted his deputy to assume the mantle in an acting capacity, pending hearing and determination of the application.Biiy said Panyako has mismanaged the union and misused its resources for his personal gain and that of his close allies. He said between June 1 2 and December 23 last year, a union vehicle, a Toyota Prado, assigned to Panyako to aid him in the discharge of his duties, mysteriously disappeared and could not be traced for several months. &ldquo;I have reasons to believe the vehicle was being used for Panyako&rsquo;s private use, including his political campaigns for the position of Kakamega senator,&rdquo; he said. The matter will be mentioned on February 26.