Over the past five months, pastoralists looking for pasture amid a drought have resorted to invading ranches in Laikipia.Herders from Baringo, Isiolo, Samburu and Pokot, moving around with at least 135,000 cattle, have forced their way into private property including Muigie conservancy.About 10,000 armed pastoralists have destroyed property and either killed or driven wildlife away from fields and water points.Elephants drink the remaining water in a drying waterhole as Samburu cattle herder tribesmen destroy the fence and enter with cattle in Mugie Conservancy, Kenya, February 12, 2017. /REUTERSSome of the animals return after the herders leave but they find very little water as the sources are drying up.Many, including elephants and lions, have been killed by the invaders and those spared or those that manage to escape face the risk of dying from lack of water.The attackers have also burned property and looted.An invasion by Pokots forced the closure of two lodges in the Muigie conservancy in January.Read:Pokot gunmen invade Laikipia conservancy, kill wild animalsAlso read: Laikipia ranch raids may hurt pastoralistsMugie Conservancy wildlife manager Jamie Manuel walks in front of a bush fire which is set up according to witnesses by cattle herders in Mugui Conservancy, Kenya, February 11, 2017. /REUTERSOn January 31, international visitors were evacuated after scores of armed attackers burned down the main tourist lodge in the 44,000-acre Suyian conservancy. Stores and garages were also looted. The five Anti-Stock Theft policemen guarding the lodge were overwhelmed by &ldquo;scores or hundreds of attackers".As armed men entered Suyian with large herds of cattle, one attacker was shot dead by police prompting violent retaliation. Suyian was the third tourist lodge in Laikipia to be closed in January.More on this: Herders invade Suyian ranch and burn lodgeA fence destroyed by by armed cattle herders is seen in Mugui conservancy Kenya, February 10, 2017. /REUTERSEarly in February, Laikipia OCPD Mbelengo Mohare was shot in the chest during an exchange with armed pastoralists who invaded Kifuko ranch.The 6pm incident saw police engage in a shoot out with illegal grazers in a bid to drive them away.A few days before this, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered from Rumuruti that all invading pastoralists leave Laikipia ranches. The Cabinet issued a similar order last October but the invaders have carried on with attacks that have had an impact on tourism.A Samburu cattle herder looks on as cows walk through a fence destroyed by other Samburu tribesmen in Mugui conservancy, Kenya February 11, 2017. /REUTERSRead: Laikipia conservancy cancels Sh600 million investment after violenceAlso read: Behind the conflict in Laikipia that&rsquo;s costing lives, hitting tourismThe invasions of conservancies and farms over the last five months have been by Samburu and Pokot from outside Laikipia.However, the invasion of Suyian was by Maasai from Mukogoto.Some say the attacks are because of the search of pasture and will end after the drought but others have blames politicians and demanded action by the government.Pokot tribesmen stand around a lake in Mugui conservancy, Kenya February 11, 2017. /REUTERSTraditionally pastoralist families had small herds. Now 'big men', politicians and corrupt officials have huge herds with several thousand head but they do not own sufficient land to graze the cattle. They use their relatives as herdsmen. This is the root of the problem.The &lsquo;bigmen&rsquo; hide their ill-gotten wealth in cattle, which is invisible to the KRA and anti-corruption authorities. They are now trying to grab land in Laikipia to keep their cattle.More on this: Laikipia farm invasions continue