IT is official, the season of defection is here. In what may come as a shocker to the Jubilee leadership, a high-flying flamboyant governor aspirant in Nairobi is said to be weighing his options. The top party leadership is leaning on the side of ex-presidential candidate Peter Kenneth. Sources tell Corridors the aspirant could jump ship to the newly formed Justice and Freedom Party. ***** Did City Hall and the National Construction Authority approve a building under construction at the junction of Racecourse Road and Kariokor Market? The building on its first floor and which sits on a plot where another building was brought down for being too close to a river bank, is said to have developed cracks at the entrance already. It is not clear how the construction has been approved without the required signage showing the contractor, approvals by Nema ,City Hall and the NCA. Residents are asking the two institutions to visit the site and avert a potential disaster. ***** A governor in Nyanza, who has allegedly been using satellite companies to procure and execute projects, is under the anti-corruption watch. Among projects under scrutiny is the ongoing rehabilitation works at a stadium in the county where close associates of the governor have locked out the contractor and are now running the show. Suppliers are forced to pay kickbacks to his family members and cronies before they get their cheques, while others can&rsquo;t get paid. ***** Politicians who have been seeking to have a specific community take up the Jubilee Party Nairobi ticket for the governor race are back to the drawing board. Our moles suggest the group has been shocked that their calculations cannot hold as they have not managed to register the numbers they wanted. The politicians, who brag that they have the pulse of Nairobi politics, have started looking for politicians they were already shunning for not being from their community. They now say they are ready to play second fiddle to other communities in a new power-sharing pact.***** A group of professionals and politicians from one of the constituencies in Northern Kenya have in the recent days been bashed on social media. They have been accused of secretly visiting Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday. It is not clear what took them there or what was discussed. The professionals and contractors are being accused of trying to go to bed with the Jubilee government because their constituents have for a long time been loyal to the opposition. Corridors is reliably informed that the community elders are expected to sermon them this week to &lsquo;explain&rsquo; what they discussed with Ruto.