The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is in a very awkward position regarding timelines, but it has no option but to deliver the election.The election has to be held on August 8, come rain come sunshine. We cannot have an honest election in a dishonest environment and political stakeholders, including the parties, should not give the Commission too much trouble.The IEBC has to be given the space and time to function as an independent institution. There are so many things we have done to improve the elections &ndash; such as the legal framework, political players and parties. We have the Constitution, the Election Act and the Political Parties Act. So, how come even with all these things in place there are still delays?In 2002 we used to say if we only had the proper legal framework in place perhaps everything would have been all right. The problem now is the enforcement of what is contained in our legal framework. Had we, as a country, followed the timelines the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee recommended to the letter, we would not be crying about inadequate time for the IEBC to prepare for the general election.Failing to implement the committee's recommendations was the government&rsquo;s problem &ndash; the Executive, and Parliament&rsquo;s, not the IEBC&rsquo;s. There was a lot of delay before this matter went to Parliament, there was a lot of delay before the President signed the Bill the Bill into law and this led to all these delays in preparing the election. There was also the delay in interviewing the new commissioners, contributing to the problem of insufficient time the IEBC now faces. We need to look into the existing electoral laws and find a way of enforcing them. At the last election, the IEBC made the biggest mistake in bringing in new technology at a time when the people were not prepared for it. The commission had no time to employ the technology to deliver the results that were expected. Also there was no sufficient time for training on using the technology.This time, the IEBC should ensure the technology and elections material are available in good time. As for election issues cases that must go to court, surely many of them can be resolved by electoral stakeholders&rsquo; sitting and reasoning together &ndash; so that the IEBC remains transparent and focused on delivering a credible poll.