The simple answer to this question is &ldquo;No&rdquo;. The proposal of the CKRC and Bomas for a parliamentary system of government headed by a prime minster, which was endorsed by the Committee of Experts, was rejected unanimously by parliamentarians at the famous Naivasha meeting.Consequently, the 2010 Constitution provides for an executive presidential system, with remarkable resemblance to the US system, with total separation of the legislature and the executive. The Cabinet consists entirely of nominees of the President, and none of its members can be a Member of Parliament.Main story: How NASA plans to share positionsThe Constitution sets out clearly the status and role of the Cabinet. The President is the head of the Cabinet, which also includes the deputy president, attorney-general, and up to 24 Cabinet secretaries. The President chairs the Cabinet, and the person designated to deputise for him in any role is the deputy president. Although the Constitution does not specify expressly, all Cabinet secretaries have the same rank and none is superior to others. They are collectively and individually accountable to the President, who is the undisputed leader of the government and all its affairs, and who can dismiss the Cabinet secretaries. A post of prime minister with any superior powers would therefore be incompatible with the Constitution. France and Tanzania do have executive presidents and also prime ministers who are MPs and, clearly in Tanzania, accountable to the president. In such systems the prime minister has a status superior to other ministers, and performs coordinating functions. Their constitutions provide for this office expressly. Kenya itself has an experience of a prime minister in an executive presidential system &mdash; in the National Accord following the post-election violence of 2007. It was envisaged as a temporary device, to be replaced by a permanent constitution. The experiment was not successful (indeed was a disaster) except for the purpose of a restoration of peace.A parliamentary system, with a Cabinet that is accountable to Parliament and is headed by a prime minister, has many advantages. It is suitable for multi-ethnic states, and had politicians not been so obsessed by their own ambitions, would have been accepted in Naivasha. Maybe a member of the Cabinet could be called &ldquo;Prime Minister&rdquo;, but could not chair Cabinet, or coordinate or direct ministries because these are presidential functions under the Constitution. It would be both a meaningless title and a divisive one, especially if its holder came from a party other than the president&rsquo;s.