"Then the blind and the lame came unto him in the temple and he healed them." That is what the apostle Mathew says Jesus did to the blind and the lame, including the centurion's daughter and many others during his time, somewhere in the Middle East. Jesus Christ, like many other missionaries who came to Africa in colonial times &mdash; including Mother Theresa in Asia &mdash; performed the act of healing freely; they never asked for any reward "save that of knowing that they were fulfilling the Will of God." Medicine has travelled a long way since then. In the capitalist societies that we live in today, from Timbuktu to Kankakee Illinois, from Bamako to Bujumbura, from Hyderabad in India to the village of Ratta in Kisumu county where I live, providing healthcare has now become a commodity transaction between the health seeker and the health provider. Many a government on the face of this mother earth have tried, in the spirit of "thou shalt be thine brother's keeper", to provide highly subsidized or free health care, particularly to the poor. Few have succeeded. And of those who have succeeded, they have been fought by the capitalist health industries and businessmen, the owners of pharmaceutical firms, health insurance companies and the many other busy bodies who call themselves health care managers and their ilk. The survival rate of people-oriented health systems is not that high: it is higher in social democratic countries than in the avowed capitalist ones. I speak from experience. After carefully working out a would-be comprehensive health insurance scheme that was to transform the NHIF from an in-patient based insurance scheme for the few to a comprehensive insurance scheme for in and out patients including senior citizens, I was surprised how hostile health management and private insurance firms became. But the International Finance Corporation and the Rockefeller Foundation, which were supporting our initiative, stayed the course to the very end. We succeeded in at least expanding the coverage of the NHIF substantially. At the moment the National Health Insurance Fund covers some hospital costs for those seeking healthcare abroad, including in India. This was never the case before our intervention. There is a general belief among Kenyans that healthcare costs are cheaper in India. This is only true to some extent, and very often Kenyans are surprised when they get to an Indian hospital and the bills to be paid start pouring in before anything is done. It is true that if you want something as simple as an executive medical examination, you will probably get it cheaper, and perhaps in greater detail in India than you may get it in Kenya. But in the event that you have some complicated surgery to be undertaken you could easily be shocked out of your wits at the price you have to pay. It is not all that cheap. But let me concede that complicated health care services like cancer treatment of all kinds have better facilities and more experts in India. In that regard Kenyans quite often have no choice but to go to India at whatever cost. So what am I saying? First, be aware of the cost of healthcare services in India; they are not all that cheap. Once you decide that you need to go to India, consult your doctor first. Unfortunately there are some doctors who may insist on looking after you even when they really are not able to. By the time they accept that the problem they are trying to solve is beyond their reach, it may be too late. But the good ones will consult their colleagues and provide wise counsel that you need to seek help elsewhere: in India, the US, Great Britain or India. Once you decide that you want to go to India, consult as widely as possible with those who have been there because there are many. The most important thing is to zero in on the right doctor (or group of doctors) and the right hospital in India. Second, please note that there are as many good hospitals and good doctors as there are phony hospitals and quark doctors: India is not the heaven for good health services as some may want you to imagine. Make the right choice. There are some advisory services regarding Indian health services here in Nairobi: some are good and some are sheer shirks. Some Indian hospitals have their agents and offices here in Nairobi, but neither the health insurance firms nor the advisory services will always tell you this. They will want you to be dependent on them and not relate directly with the Indian institutions. Always keep your antenna up before you leap to a decision. Third, the issue of cost is the key thing. If you have insurance begin there. The NHIF will cover you to some extent if you are a contributor. Begin there. Your physician or doctor should help on navigating through the NHIF. I would like to urge the NHIF to give as much information on the procedures to be followed on their website as possible. At the moment too many people miss out on what they are entitled to through sheer lack of information. You should then consult your other insurance firm if you have one, like AAR, for example. Some of these firms prefer to deal directly with the facilities in India even when those facilities have agents here in Nairobi. Please ask to ensure that you can get information yourself from the horse's mouth right here in Nairobi. It makes a big difference. For example, some Indian hospitals tie the cost of their surgery to the type of ward you sleep in before and after surgery. You should make the choice here in Nairobi before you board the plane to go there. A ward is just like a hotel room. It makes a huge difference to sleep in a room at the Intercontinental or at New Rwadhia People's Lodge both in Nairobi. The length of the night is the same, the city you are sleeping in is the same: the only difference may be in comfort and prestige. If all you want is to go to bed and wake up in the morning, you may save a great deal of money avoiding Intercontinental. Fourth, some Indian hospitals are fond of slapping you with a trillion and a half charges to pay upfront, especially before you are admitted for surgery. Sometimes your insurance firm or agent knows this but they won't tell you until you get to India when you are simply presented with a fait accompli; think before you leap before you leave Kenya. Let the truth be told, this is where hidden costs are to be found where agents, insurance firms and the Indian health facilities make their kill. Without interfering with individual freedoms, I would like to appeal to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Boardto come up with some advisory Guidelines on Treatment Abroad. Insurance firms, health management firms and advisory agents should also be held to some ethical standards: they should not be allowed to operate in a value free environment. When all is said and done, let me end by resorting to a rather hackneyed advice: Charity begins at home. One of the reasons why some of us decide to go to India is that, in spite of everything else, when you step into a really good Indian hospital, the patient is treated like a king. I was a minister for Medical Services for five years in this country and I know the agony many patients go through in our hospitals, both private and public. I also know that our health personnel sometimes have just too much work that they are stressed and over stretched: That is a perfect recipe for not putting up a smile all the time when you encounter your patients. While I can understand the monumental problems we have always had in the public health system, I do not understand the nonchalant treatment of patients in private health facilities. To begin with, in these facilities, patients pay for services through their noses: they deserve to be treated like kings and queens. But this is not always the case. In my article next week I am going to discuss healthcare provision in private health facilities, including the cost of drugs in pharmacies. You will all realise that we live in a world of gross injustice, segmented exploitation, and a terrible absence of temples we can go to like the blind and lame in the time of Jesus "and be healed" without much tears.