We are oblivious of the dark side of the internet. Sadly, it has ruined some young lives forever.In Australia, a 26-year-old man posed as a tour manager for a teen band on Facebook, and claimed 55 victims in four years. He used his virtual position to lure young girls by offering free tickets, back stage passes and merchandise. He made them trust him by giving them nick names and flattering them. He often abused and violated his victims. Eventually he was caught and charged with numerous offences, including rape and child pornography. Elsewhere, a mother in the UK battled with her 17-year-old son&rsquo;s gaming addiction for three years. In this period, her son Connor failed his university entry-level exams, skipped school and locked himself in the bathroom so he could play games online. At one point, he was gone for so long his mother had to call the police, only to find him all wrapped up in a duvet hiding in the cupboard playing his computer games. Closer to home, most of us have had our share of experiences pleading with our children and spouses to put away their phones when we need them to talk to us.GLOBAL PANDEMICOur world is connected more than ever through a rapid increase of smartphones, tablets and computers. The use of these gadgets has simplified our lives in many ways, from paying bills, shopping, getting useful and informative data and connecting us to long lost friends. On the other hand, online gaming, online gambling, information overload and virtual sex have been on the rise. So has compulsive online shopping, leading to real life financial woes. This has become a worldwide pandemic, especially in major economies like China, Czech Republic, Italy, Taiwan and the US. In China, in 2015 alone, there were more than 146,000 internet cafes and over 20 million users each day. Both numbers are set to increase annually thanks to internet games such as CrossFire and League of Legends. Most game players are individuals less than 35 years old, 51 per cent of them men and 49 per cent women.Elsewhere, South Korea considers internet addiction as one of its most serious public health problems. In Kenya, according to internetworldstats.com, the internet penetration percentage stood at 68.4 per cent last year, which shows that Kenyans have embraced internet use. Just last year, the Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general was advocating for students in secondary schools to be allowed to carry their mobile phones to school to make it easier for them to access information, as it helps in learning.SYMPTOMS OF INTERNET ADDICTIONThough not formally added to &ldquo;psychiatry&rsquo;s Bible&rdquo; of DSM 5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), compulsive internet use has been a subject of interest among researchers in the mental health field since as early as 1995. Internet Use Disorder has been recommended for further studies. However, the following diagnostic criteria were proposed based on numerous literature on internet use: Preoccupation with the internet, withdrawal symptoms when the internet is taken away, tolerance (the need to spend increasing amounts of time on the internet to achieve the same &ldquo;high&rdquo; and unsuccessful attempts to control internet use.Other symptoms are continued excessive internet use despite knowledge of negative psychosocial problem, loss of interest in other activities, use of the internet to escape or improve a dysphoric mood, deceiving others regarding the amount of time spent online and jeopardised or loss of a significant relationship, job, educational or career opportunity because of internet use.Excessive internet use in children has been shown to cause reading deficits, reduced social interaction, impulse control disorder, attention deficit, hyperactivity disorder and rise in obesity cases. Among males between the ages of 20 and 30 years, there is a high correlation between pathological internet use and depression, anxiety disorders and substance abuse. Internet addiction may be divided into five sub-types: internet infidelity, internet gambling, social media addiction, internet gaming disorder and information overload. There are changes reported in the brain of an internet addict. The grey and white matter shrink, resulting in reduced brain functioning and emotional processing. Not to mention the amount of time lost surfing or building a virtual reality, which in most cases has put strenuous financial burden on the addict and other family members, who are forced to maintain the addiction as well as pay for treatment.BREAKING FREEInternet addiction (AI) treatment takes time. The first step in recovery is acceptance that the person needs help. In developed countries, there are rehabilitation centres set up to treat internet addiction. They aim to help them cut back on internet use and refrain from applications that are addictive in nature. Dr Kimberly Young, who founded Center for Internet Addiction, recommends the use of psychological interventions like cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and psychosocial approach. Other treatment options include parent coaching, family counselling and group therapy. The goal of CBT for addiction counselling is to change those thought and behaviour patterns that have negative impact on our feelings. Clients are taught to be aware of their thought processes and identify those thoughts that trigger addictive feelings to learn new coping skills. This process usually takes about 12 weekly sessions.Social support plays a critical role in the recovery process. In parent coaching, a caregiver is taught how to set boundaries for children about smartphone or computer use. Parents learn how to identify risk factors and stop the warning signs of internet overuse as well as how to set up enjoyable activities that are technology free. Dr Young came up with guidelines for use of technology for children in every age group. She recommends children below three years should not be exposed to any kind of technology at all, while other age groups should be supervised. There are various assessment tools to measure internet addiction if one is unsure of their standing. Some experts recommend taking of antidepressants to treat co-morbid symptoms of depression and anxiety disorders.As in the case of Connor, he eventually managed to get back to get back to his schoolwork and cut back on internet use through support from his parents and an addiction specialist. His mother attributes his recovery to Connor&rsquo;s change of attitude, especially how he perceived himself, as he was suffering from self-esteem issues in the beginning, in which he sought comfort and gained confidence in his virtual world. Relapse can occur but to break free from the habit is possible. Take note of the triggers and avoid them if you can.This phenomenon may seem farfetched to Kenyans for now, but it is crucial to note the impending dangers of internet use, which will catch up with us sooner than we think. Parents and young people need to be aware of the internet trap, which can easily cause significant life changes. Thus, awareness creation is key to nip it in the bud, before the behaviour goes out of control. Spend time face-to-face with family and friends. Please remember to disconnect to connect!