Herders illegally grazing their animals at the Tsavo National Park are a security threat to tourists and wildlife, conservationists have warned.It is estimated that more than 3,000 cattle graze in the park, some at hotels&rsquo; doorsteps.&ldquo;Every day cattle are offloaded from lorries at Voi, Maungu, Mackinon and Ndara and all are being driven into the park,&rdquo; a source at Tsavo East said.Conservation groups fear Tsavo might fall to armed herders that have invaded Laikipia if the government Jubilee hopefuls in Kilifi plan roadshow, godoor-to-door in voter listing campaign Jubilee aspirants in Malindi have launched a door-to-door voter registration campaign to hit the 100,000 IEBC target. Led by Amina Mnyazi, they have a team of 300 youths and women to go to every house to check whether residents have voter&rsquo;s cards. Mnyazi is eyeing the Kilifi woman rep seat.They have also organised a roadshow. Registration ends on February 14. Speaking during the official launch of the roadshow, Mnyazi said she is optimistic they would exceed the 100,000 voters targeted. She said most people usually wait for the last minute to register and the campaign couldn&rsquo;t have come at a better time.She assured President Uhuru Kenyatta that the Jubilee team in Kilifi is working round the clock to get as many people as possible registered does not drive out the herders. Herders have invaded Laikipia and Nyeri counties, despite warnings and deadlines from the government.The Tourism ministry has not commented on the illegal grazing in Tsavo, despite pleas by hoteliers and tour companies that illegal grazing scares away visitors.Tourists visiting Tsavo complain that they pay hefty park entry fees only to see herds of cattle and herders.&ldquo;The herders are a big security threat to tourists who say they are Shiftas and fear for their security,&rdquo; the source said.&ldquo;Everybody is afraid the same thing happening in Laikipia can happen in Tsavo East. Nobody seems to care. The Kenya Wildlife Service cannot do anything because the owners of the cows are top government officials. KWS officials who dare remove the cows are immediately transferred.&rdquo;Conservation groups have been threatened to keep quiet, he said.Go the Laikipia way?In four months, about 10,000 pastoralists from Baringo, Isiolo and Samburu counties with around 135,000 cattle have invaded Laikipia.The armed pastoralists have overrun conservancies, killed wild animals and burnt lodges and other property. Tourist vehicles have been attacked.An armoured personnel carrier was burnt this week. Herders have invaded farms and in some instances attacked villagers.Some residents have taken up arms. Last month a family of Dutch holidaymakers was attacked by a mob of Pokot invaders at the Laikipia Nature Conservancy. They escaped unhurt after an AP officer escorting them fired in the air, forcing the attackers to flee. Their vehicle was damaged. The UK has informed citizens of &ldquo;armed incursions&rdquo; in Laikipia but has not issued a formal travel advisory. Safari destinations, parks and wildlife conservancies are not the subject of advisories. Poachers disguised as herders also kill wildlife.