Alternative health treatments are gaining popularity as people look for different ways to heal their bodies and improve their general wellbeing.One of the most common complaints among men and women is the belly bulge. While some people have a potbelly because of too much alcohol, there are people who live a relatively healthy lifestyle but still cannot get rid of the tummy.SIGN OF SICKNESSBeryl Awinja of Colon Hydrotherapy clinic in Westlands, Nairobi, says a bulging belly could be an indication of a &ldquo;sick colon&rdquo;.She says other symptoms of a sick colon include constant headaches, excessive gas, insomnia, indigestion, fatigue and constipation.Beryl says colon hydrotherapy can help deal with the above conditions.Colon hydrotherapy is the infusion of warm, filtered water into the colon using a disposable speculum.The water is meant to soften the buildup of waste that solidifies and gets impacted on the colon. One session takes about 35-45 minutes.Beryl says the process is better than ingesting laxatives because the drugs make someone visit the bathroom too often, and some people get severe diarrhoea.Before you can undergo the procedure, Beryl says you have to fill in an assessment sheet to see if you are a good candidate. HOW THE SESSION WORKSYou will feel some pressure in your abdomen as the warm water reaches your colon. Beryl says the procedure works best when the patient is relaxed. Throughout the procedure, the colon hydrotherapist will massage your stomach to soften the buildup in the colon. Patients have the option of looking at the contents excreted, but if it grosses you out, you can look away. Beryl says one can expect to see results &ndash; a flatter tummy, no more headaches and constipation &ndash; a few days after the procedure.BENEFITSDoctors are divided on whether there are benefits of colon hydrotherapy. There are some who recommend it for patients with constipation, headaches and all the other conditions listed above. There are others who are neutral about it, then there are medics who say it could be harmful and unnecessary because the body is able to detoxify itself. You decide.CHARGES: Sh7,000 per session, discount available for three-session package.CONTACTS: +254 739411268, email: info@colonhydrotherapy.co.keLOCATION:Tricia&rsquo;s Salon, General Mathenge Drive, Westlands, NairobiStar rating: 4/5