Champions Tusker begin their quest to become the first Kenyan club to reach the group stages of the Caf Champions League when they host Mauritian side, Port Louis in the preliminary round of the lucrative African club competition at Kasarani this afternoon. The brewers, who returned to the continental scene after a three-year hiatus, will be confident of seeing off their opponents.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t know much about Port Louis but I believe their philosophy is just like that of their national team because most of their players are in the national team. We have prepared well for them and we are confident we can get a good result to take to the next leg,&rdquo; said Tusker Ugandan tactician, George Nsimbe.He revealed that despite the brewers bringing in more than half a dozen new players, he will stick to the squad that took the team to this competition by winning the league last year. &ldquo;We have a settled senior squad and the players we signed will act as a back up for the team. They are still young but one or two of them have impressed in training and might be in the squad for the match,&rdquo; Nsimbe disclosed. Defender Eugene Asike has been ruled out of this round as his registration was sent late but skipper James Situma who has recovered fully from a nagging knee injury might be called upon to fill that gap.Situma said the morale in the camp was high and that the ability to defy history and reach the group stages will depend on the team&rsquo;s mental fortitude. For the first time, the event will feature sixteen teams up from the previous eight. &ldquo;We have prepared well for this match but the difference between winning and losing will be on our mental strength. Many people have written off Kenyan sides but it is up to us as players to show them that they are wrong,&rdquo; Situma said.The brewers have been in residential camp at Kasarani since Tuesday, a situation that Situma believes has fostered team spirit. Goalkeeper David Okello is likely to start in goal with Lloyd Wahome, Situma, Shafik Batambuze and Collins Shivachi likely to guard the defence. Humphrey Mieno and Anthony Ndolo will be in midfield with Allan Wanga spearheading the attack alongside Noah Wafula.