The UAP Old Mutual Group has joined the growing list of firms laying off workers to cut spiking costs amid slowing revenues.The financial services group yesterday said up to 100 staff in Kenya will be retrenched in a restructuring that started this month and is set to be completed in the second week of March. The business integration process, UAP-Old Mutual said, includes the merger of similar businesses that existed before the consolidation of UAP and Old Mutual in East Africa in mid 2015. The process will help it &ldquo;realise operational efficiencies&rdquo;, the firm said. The retrenchment at UAP-Old Mutual follows acquisition of 60.7 per cent in UAP Holdings by UK's Old Mutual for about Sh25.6 billion in June 2015. The the two holding companies have, however, continued to operate similar subsidiaries in life insurance and asset management. Old Mutual had in 2014 acquired Faulu Microfinance Bank. The management yesterday said the integration process is at an advanced stage, and the company is in the process of securing the relevant regulatory and shareholder approvals to merge various business units into single entities.&ldquo;We regret the inevitable impact of the restructure on our employees. While this kind of restructure is never an easy process to manage, we are committed to applying our organisation&rsquo;s values of respect and accountability, and will ensure to comply fully with the relevant labour laws,&rdquo; Group CEO Peter Mwangi said in a statement. &ldquo;We will also explore all redeployment opportunities and ensure that fair compensation offers are provided to affected employees, together with appropriate life skills training and counselling sessions.&rdquo;The restructuring exercise will not impact the group&rsquo;s businesses in Uganda, Tanzania, South Sudan, Rwanda and the DRC. At the beginning of 2017, the Company announced that the organisational restructure would necessitate a staff reorganization in Kenya that will unfortunately involve some staff redeployments across the various business units, and &ldquo;a limited number of redundancies&rdquo;. Mwangi said the integration will allow customers to enjoy banking, insurance and investment services under one roof. The company plans to list at the Nairobi Securities Exchange this year. UAP-Old Mutual joins dozens of companies that have resorted to staff layoffs since last year. They include Equity Group (400 employees through natural attrition), Standard Chartered Bank (about 300 staff) after it transferred its shared services centre to India, Sidian Bank (108) and Family Bank (undiclosed 32). Others are Naivasha flower farm Karuturi that sent home 2,600 employees, Sameer Africa (600), Portland Cement (about 1,000), and Uchumi (253). Kenya Flouspar company scaled down operations and sent home about 700 workers.National carrier Kenya Airways laid off 118, Airtel (150), Kenya Meat Commission (118), among others.