A Karan Kaul&rsquo;s half-century was not enough to save Nairobi Gymkhana from their fifth defeat in eight matches as they plunged to a nine-wicket loss against defending champions Swamibapa in the 2017 Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 match at Nairobi Jafferys.The Gymkhana skipper hammered an attractive 74 from 46 balls, but the visitors could only muster 123 for nine off their 20 overs, a target that the home team reached for the loss of one wicket in 15.2 overs.Kaul, who last week saw his captain knock also go in vain against leaders Stray Lions, struck five fours and two sixes as he shared eight partnerships with a 56 for the fourth wicket with Veer Dave, the best in the inning. Dave&rsquo;s 19 off 29 balls was the second best in an inning that had four ducks. Kaul defiance on the Swamibapa&rsquo;s loaded bowling attack lasted for 19 overs before falling to Saumil Patel with the board at 109. Nehemiah Odhiambo, Elijah Otieno, Lameck Onyango and Saumil&mdash;all picked two wickets each.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s always a tough thing to digest. Seeing your side struggling with the bat as it happened today (Sunday) makes one wonder what is wrong with the team. The same thing that happened today is exactly what happened last Sunday,&rdquo; Kaul said. Gymkhana began their inning on a sour note, losing their first wicket in the first over. Kaul then added 14 for the second with Rushab Patel in three overs before Rushab&rsquo;s poor run came in the limelight once again when he was caught on three.Gymkhana were four wickets down at the very next ball when Rushab&rsquo;s brother Harsh was sent back to the pavilion for a golden duck to leave the visitors on 15 for 3 after 3.4 overs. This brought up the fourth wicket stand of 56 runs between Kaul and Dave. The two hanged on for nine overs before Onyango broke the stand by having Dave caught.After the stand was broken, they lost two more wickets for two runs to leave them at 72 for 6 after 13.1 overs. Kaul and Raj Savala then went on to post 37 for the seventh wicket before Saumil ended it with seven balls to play. With only six balls to play, Kaul opted to go for the boundary off every ball and at least get his team past the 150 mark but he was cut short by a caught and bowled dismissal by Saumil.In reply, second-placed Swamibapa cruised to their target with 28 balls to spare courtesy of opener Naman Patel&rsquo;s unbeaten 59 and Maurice Ouma&rsquo;s 56 not out, in an unbroken 109-run, second-wicket stand.