Kitui Governor Julius Malombe has said Senator David Musila is out to weaken Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and blackmail him. He said Musila should forget winning the governor&rsquo;s seat because &ldquo;it has an owner&rdquo;.Speaking during his tour of Mwingi Central constituency at the weekend, Malombe dismissed a press statement issued by Kitui MPs saying they will support Musila for governor.He said the MPs are led by greed and are only working to destroy Kalonzo&rsquo;s dream, led by Musila. &ldquo;That statement was only to divide Kambas and I am surprised that the MPs, who met in Parliament to support Musila, all defected from Wiper. Musila could be planning to decamp from Wiper and form another party, then join Jubilee eventually. All in all, let my opponents rest assured that I will defeat them before dawn and they will not even garner a quarter of Kitui votes,&rdquo; Malombe said.He warned Musila to stop &ldquo;disturbing Kitui residents in the name of Wiper national chairman&rdquo; because he will not get direct nomination, regardless of his rank in Wiper. Malombe said the nominations should be fair and free.He said Musila and some Kitui MPs might be working with the Jubilee administration to &ldquo;finish&rdquo; Kalonzo and ensure he does not become NASA flag bearer. The governor said he is confident he will be reelected for a second term as his development record will speak for him.Can&rsquo;t quit wiperWhen contacted, Musila said he is Wiper national chairman and cannot leave the party. He said it is insulting for anyone to suggest he can leave the party, yet he is among the founder members.&ldquo;The MPs simply endorsed me and this had nothing to do with the party, otherwise Jubilee members would not have attended the endorsement press conference,&rdquo; he said.Speaking during the endorsement last Wednesday, Musila said it was not meant for Kalonzo to support him, &ldquo;but a message for Kitui people to support me. I&rsquo;m going to be a candidate regardless of the party&rdquo;.He was with National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze and eight MPs. Malombe once criticised MPs for saying he will not be reelected. He said Kitui people are wise and would reward him by reelecting him for his good work and equitable development across the county.His wife Edith said her husband is the Kitui version of the Biblical Moses, who delivered the people of Israel from captivity in Egypt.She said just as Moses delivered the Israelites from slavery, Malombe is keen on delivering the Kitui people from the yoke of underdevelopment, poverty and economic bondage.