The recent visits by Mama Ngina and President Uhuru Kenyatta to retired President Daniel Moi at his rural Kabarak home and Kabarnet Gardens in Nairobi respectively are raising political eyebrows in several quarters.Not that the families are not well acquainted, but it&rsquo;s the timing that is intriguing political observers. The Moi and Kenyatta families go back a long way right from his appointment as Vice &ndash;President on January 5, 1967. Prior to Moi&rsquo;s appointment, President Jomo Kenyatta had a tumultuous relationship with Vice Presidents Jaramogi Odinga and Joseph Murumbi. In April 1966, Odinga resigned as Vice President to form the Kenya People&rsquo;s Union, quickly metamorphosing into the foremost critic of the Kenyatta government. He was succeeded by Murumbi, a man of joint Goan and Masai descent on May 3, 1966. Murumbi soon resigned on August 31, 1966, shortly after he discovered &mdash; years after it had happened &mdash; that he was partly responsible for Pio Gama Pinto&rsquo;s murder 18 months before by confidently calling him out of hiding. Pinto had been warned by Tom Mboya that he was going to be assassinated.Moi proved to be a more tractable or flexible Vice President than his predecessors, giving the Independence government a stability that was clearly lacking. Fiercely loyal and humble, Moi proved to be a valuable ally to an aging Kenyatta. It is little wonder then that he became the longest serving of the three Vice Presidents until Kenyatta died on August 22, 1978. Many in Kenyatta&rsquo;s kitchen Cabinet underestimated the capabilities of Moi, considering him a docile, rudderless and colourless politician. This eventually turned out to be a fatal mistake. When he ascended to the presidency he systematically destroyed the political careers of his foes with such surgical precision that included James Gichuru, Mbiyu Koinange, Njoroge Mungai, Charles Njonjo and Kihika Kimani, among others. One of the few who did not underestimate Moi was Odinga who described Moi as &ldquo;a giraffe with a long neck that saw from far.&rdquo;To state that Moi owes the Kenyattas a debt or political favour would be a major understatement.Indeed, he has been repaying that debt since 2002, when, to everyone&rsquo;s surprise, he picked Uhuru as his preferred successor. His plan was, however, scuttled by the Narc team that supported Mwai Kibaki. In 2013, however, Moi had the last laugh as Uhuru won to become the Fourth President of the republic of Kenya. The power behind the Uhuru presidency, however, is Mama Ngina. A quiet, unassuming lady of regal bearing, she had the ear of President Moi throughout his 24-year presidency. The only reason why Gideon Moi was not Uhuru&rsquo;s running mate in 2013 was the fear that the opposition would have accused them of creating a dynasty.The possibility of their cutting a deal at this moment is very real and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s camp has every reason to be worried by recent developments. The good thing, however, is that Ruto is no political pushover and could upset the Jubilee apple-cart at short-notice with catastrophic consequences.Allow me to digress as I personally recall a curious incident, more than 20 years ago, when Musalia Mudavadi and I met Mama Ngina at a barbeque at the Riara Road home of one Rosemary Wambui &mdash; then and now a close confidant of Mama Ngina. In the course of the festivities, Mama Ngina invited us to her Ichaweri home in Gatundu. Mudavadi, who was then minister for Finance, graciously acceded to the request. We were treated to a royal banquet at the later date. Shortly thereafter, Uhuru was appointed to the Kenya Tourism Board, then nominated to Parliament and eventually, appointed to the Cabinet. In 2002, Vice President Mudavadi was arm-twisted to become Uhuru&rsquo;s running mate. Clearly she had convinced Moi to repay the debt. Mudavadi has been outmanoeuvred &mdash; twice!