The government has put in place measures to curb radicalisation and violent extremism in prisons, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said.Uhuru said significant steps have been taken in collaboration with the National Counter-Terrorism Centre, t o improve the training curriculum for staff and rehabilitation programmes for inmates. &nbsp; &ldquo;A multi-agency task force, which I appointed to assess the capacity of the Kenya Prisons Service, has concluded its assignment and presented the report for further review &ndash; which we will shortly be undertaking,&rdquo; he said. He spoke on Wednesday &nbsp;at the Prisons Staff Training College in Ruiru where he presided over the passing out parade of 2699 prisons recruits. Read: Deal with radicalisation in schools, Matiang'i tells muslim council Also read: Invest in youth to end radicalisation To reduce crime, stem radicalisation and ensure security in the country, the President said prison institutions are required to offer not only&nbsp; retributive justice but also the prospect of reform. &nbsp;&ldquo;Our justice system exists not just to punish offenders or to deter possible offenders from doing wrong. It exists to also encourage those who have done wrong to change, and to once more contribute meaningfully to society,&rdquo; he said. Noting that justice systems the world over are being re-assessed and re-evaluated, Uhuru pledged to continue investing in the transformation of the prisons service to ensure a robust and rehabilitative system. &nbsp;&ldquo;...a system that seeks not to condemn but to correct...that doesn&rsquo;t marginalise those who merit a second chance...that ensures those paroled have the support, knowledge, networks, skills and incentive they need to find gainful employment, make moral decisions, follow the law, and avoid re-incarceration,&rdquo; he said. The President assured that his government will continue analysing the justice system to ensure the service keeps Kenya safe. He also directed Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and the Commissioner of Prisons&nbsp;Isaiah Osugo&nbsp;to liaise with Chief Justice David Maraga on the release of petty offenders for prisoners to be decongested.. &nbsp;The President observed that some of the petty offenders have stayed longer in remand cells than they would have, had their cases been heard and determined. Read: Uhuru commutes all 2,747 death row convictions, pardons 102To improve the welfare of prison officers, the President said the government has provided a comprehensive group life insurance cover for all officers, including those who graduated today. &ldquo;We are also assessing budgetary allocations to ensure prisons receive the funds they need to improve staff housing for prison officers &ndash; which, I realize, remains a pressing concern for many officers,&rdquo; he said. Read: Crisis: 73% police officers live in squalor, 80% APs have no houses[VIDEO] Uhuru delivers 500 police vehicles, promises to fill 'glaring gaps'Uhuru commended the graduands for the diligence and commitment that saw them successfully complete the nine-month training that included diploma and certificate in security and correctional science. &ldquo;[You] are celebrating after going through a rigorous initial course for prisons officers along with diploma and certificate courses in security and correctional science," he said. The programme was undertaken by the Kenya Prisons Service in partnership with Kenyatta University. The President urged the new prison officers to uphold high standards guided by solid judgment, strength of character, inflexible allegiance to justice and an unwavering respect for the dignity of all. &nbsp;&ldquo;These traits cannot be taught in a programme. They cannot be learned through a course. These traits will only exist in those among you who sincerely reflect on not just the kind of prisons officers you hope to be but also the kind of people and citizens you want,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;As you take your oath of office, consider how you will actualise it, creatively use your position to serve our nation by serving prisoners, and leverage the skills and talents you have to transform our prison institutions, thereby advance the security of our country.&rdquo; The President also praised the graduands for&nbsp; contributing Sh1.3 million for victims of hunger, and noted that the prisons fraternity gave more than Sh 3.4 million in total.