As I sat with my friends enjoying cups of ginger tea in Upperhill, Nairobi, last Friday, one of the ladies received an SMS from her driver: &ldquo;Chief wetu ameuliwa na Wapokot. (Our chief has been killed by the Pokots)&rdquo;.He was referring the killing of a chief in Bartabwa, Baringo county, on Friday.Our conversation then detoured to the insecurity ravaging the Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. The poor administrator was mowed down five kilometres from where Deputy President William Ruto was addressing a security meeting.After the killing, the group disrupted the DP&rsquo;s meeting by shooting in the air, never mind that there were many security officers armed to the teeth in the DP&rsquo;s entourage.That is not an isolated killing by the ragtag army of the Pokots whose impunity is well known. They kill and maim on a daily basis. The militants, made up of young men barely out of their teens, train in broad daylight with cameramen in tow as their mothers and wives wildly cheer their stupid acts of cowardice. The killing of the chief during a visit by the second most powerful person in Kenya was a chilling message to the government &ndash; that the Pokot terrorists are indeed above the law.I am calling the Pokot killers terrorists because that is what they are. Let us not sugarcoat it by calling them bandits. There is no difference between al Shabaab and those slaughtering mothers and infants in Baringo and Marakwet. They all spill the blood of the innocent because of their warped thinking. Our leaders must stop massaging the egos of the killers just because of political gerrymandering.The killers are emboldened by the fact that the leaders are salivating for their votes. They know that the leaders are so power-hungry they can stoop to the lowest levels just to prop up their numbers on August 8. No one dares bring them to book.This wanton destruction of lives must be brought to an end.But this can only be done if culpable leaders are pushed to the wall and made to take responsibility for their actions. The chair of the National Assembly&rsquo;s Security Committee , Asman Kamama, is the MP for Tiaty, the epicentre of the troubles that bedevil Baringo and her neighbours.Kamama&rsquo;s name is synonymous with insecurity and yet he is the boss of this crucial committee. What an irony!