Cheap leather imports are hurting small and medium enterprises, the Kenya Footwear Manufacturers Association has said, calling on the government to protect the sector. Eighty per cent of shows in the local market are from China and India, the KFMA chairman James Mwaura said, adding it has denied small traders revenues. This, coupled with limited access to the market, lack of skills beyond basics in production, low expertise to produce finished leather and leather products, and high cost of capital are hurting small businesses. There is unfair competition from counterfeit products, tax avoidance, illicit imports, dumping and extra taxes on imported raw materials which have reduced competitiveness, the association said in Nairobi yesterday, during the launch of its 2017-21 five-year strategic plan. “We want standards to be put in place to protect the local market from cheap imports,” Mwaura said during the event presided over by Industry, Trade and Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed. The KFMA strategy has proposed interventions to support the development of leather and MSMEs. They include the launch of a leather cluster in Machakos and two other locations, development of local content requirements to support the local manufacturers and supporting 50 SME’s annually in key sectors with credit, training and networking assistance. KFMA also wants strengthening of the subcontracting policy to improve links between large and small players. It has also called for investment in industrial skills by enhancing the capacity of institutions and partners, and encouraging the youth to sign up for technical courses. “We also need to sensitise Kenyans to buy Kenya,” Mwaura said. The CS said the government will set up a revolving fund to support SMEs in the sector. He said the ministry is in the final stages of negotiating for a $300,000 (Sh30.9 million) kitty with the PTA Bank, and an additional Sh100 million will be set aside by the Kenya Industrial Estates for lending SMEs at “preferential rates”. “One of the biggest challenge for SMEs is access to finances. We want to address this. We will also create clusters in each of the 47 counties that will support footwear and leather sector in the country,” Mohamed said. He said the government will create room for small players at the proposed Leather Industrial Park in Machakos. Works at the park has commenced and the first tannery is expected to be operational “in the next 18-24 months,” Mohamed said. He said the planned development of the Leather Industrial Park in Machakos, which has attracted multinationals, will not kill micro and small players. The 500-acre project in Athi River has attracted three Indian investors interested in setting up tanning factories at the proposed park, which will be funded fully by the private sector at an estimated cost of Sh17 billion. This has caused jitters among local producers of leather products, especially small and medium enterprises, as the KFMA push to revive the industry which has struggled for the last 27 years. Mohamed, however, yesterday assured local leather players of the government support, saying the park will have a dedicated area for SMEs. “The leather park will provide a one-stop shop for processing of leather and finished products. It will be open for domestic and foreign investors,” Mohamed said in Nairobi during the launch of the KFMA five-year strategic plan, aimed at boosting the sector's growth.     