The IEBC will spend Sh200 million more after a Nairobi court extended mass voter registration by five days, chairman Wafula Chebukati has said.Mass registration now will end at 6pm on Sunday. However, individuals can still collect IDs and register to vote at the constituency level until May 17, 60 days to the general election.Chebukati said on Friday the commission spends Sh40 million daily and the extension is expensive. &ldquo;As a commission, we want to be fair and balanced. We had no option, but to obey the law. This extension has strained our budget in terms of facilitation,&rdquo; Chebukati said.It is estimated the commission had spent Sh1.2 billion on the entire drive by the end of 30 days &mdash; Tuesday, February 14 &mdash; as originally planned.However, the High Court extended the listing by two days after activist Okiya Omtatah argued the law only requires that the exercise be stopped two months to the general election. The same court on Thursday added three more days for voter listing. through Sunday.Chebukati spoke when he and new commissioners visited the Jubilee Party secretariat in Pangani for consultations. He said after February 19, all regions are to bring back data and the cleaning of the register will start immediately.Cleaning entails removing dead voters, double registration and those who have transferred more than once.Chebukati also sought to dispel fears the commission will lag behind in procurement after the court cancelled a tender award to print ballot papers.&ldquo;Ballot papers are among the last electoral materials that the commission will be concentrating on. Between now and August, we have adequate time to start a fresh procurement and tendering process that will be completed on time,&rdquo; he said.Chebukati said the commission is committed to deliver a free, fair and credible election.ONLY HELP JUBILEEHe said the commission will be unable to conduct primaries for any party except Jubilee, which has requested its help.Chebukati said they will engage with the Jubilee Party to determine the best way to handle nominations.He said the commission will assignthree commissioners, who will engage with three party officials on how the matter will be handled.Chebukati said if the team recommends the IEBC to conduct primaries, they will seek funding from the Treasury, not be funding by any party. &ldquo;We have the capacity to run party primaries and the only thing we have to do is write to Treasury,&rdquo; he said.Head of Jubilee Secretariat Raphael Tuju castigated the opposition for alleging the Jubilee administration is planning to rig the election.