Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi has said he sought the services of a witch doctor from his constituency to protect and help Senator Kiraitu Murungi win.Kiraitu is seeking to unseat Meru Governor and CoG chairman Peter Munya.On Saturday, Aburi introduced the witch doctor alongside Njuri Ncheke elders from Tigania. &ldquo;We have an elder known as Kaana ka Njoka. He is a witch doctor and if you don&rsquo;t vote for Kiraitu Murungi and he points at you, you are no more. Kiraitu knows him. We want to prove to you that in Tigania we are not supporting Munya,&rdquo; the MP said.During the meeting, which was held at Kiraitu&rsquo;s home in Nkubu, Aburi urged Imenti residents not to be deceived that Nyambene is not supporting Kiraitu.&ldquo;This is a spiritual war. Let us shame that man [Munya],&rdquo; he said.The alleged witch doctor identified himself as Mugambi Barongo James or Kaana ka Njoka (young one of a snake). Barongo said he has been a strong supporter of MP Aburi and he has decided to be on the team that will ensure Kiraitu wins the governor&rsquo;s seat.&ldquo;I am equipped with poison. When you get close to Aburi, I can bite you and you will not survive. I talked to the MP and he said I will play the role of Kiraitu&rsquo;s defender in politics. As you can see my pockets are full of charms. These are charms to protect and defend the votes of Kiraitu and Aburi,&rdquo; he said.Barongo also said voters in Tigania East voted for Munya because he was Kiraitu&rsquo;s preferred candidate.He said Munya has lost support in all constituencies in Meru.Barongo termed Munya&rsquo;s PNU party &ldquo;an infertile male&rdquo;, which has failed to impregnate a female. He said Kiraitu has the ability to &ldquo;give seed&rdquo; and achieve the goal of Meru.The meeting was attended by more than 2,000 delegates from South Imenti. Also present were Kiraitu, Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi, Meru assembly deputy speaker Gideon Kimathi and a host of aspirants from the constituency.The Elections Act 2011 Article 63 ( 1b) says, &ldquo;A person who, directly or indirectly, in person or through another person on his behalf uses or threatens to use any force, violence ....harmful cultural practices, damage or loss, or any fraudulent device, trick or deception for the purpose of or on account of impeding or preventing the free exercise of the franchise of a voter; commits the offence of undue influence.&rdquo;