Kitui Senator David Musila has rejected overtures from Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu that he join Jubilee or fail in his run for governor.The Wiper national chairman on Monday said he is an ardent supporter and will remain in the party. On Wednesday last week, Mutambu, who ditched Wiper for Jubilee last year, urged Musila to leave Wiper. Failing that, he will lose the nomination to Governor Julius Malombe, he said.Musila has rejected party boss Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s &lsquo;advice&rsquo; that he drop his bid for governor, let Malombe run and instead defend his Senate seat.Mutambu told Musila to run as fast as he can from Wiper as that is the only way he can survive in Kitui county politics.Musila has publicly criticised Kalonzo for meddling.The Kitui people, not Kalonzo, should choose their governor, he said.Musila says he is in the governor&rsquo;s race to the end and will not change his decision, despite mounting pressure. He told Kalonzo to fight his own battles and concentrate on becoming the opposition&rsquo;s presidential flagbearer.This earned the legislator the wrath of other party members, who said he &ldquo;overreacted&rdquo; to Kalonzo&rsquo;s &ldquo;wise counsel&rdquo;. But visiting the IEBC offices in Mwingi, Musila told Mutambu he will emerge victorious on the Wiper ticket. &ldquo;Just watch the race and you will see it for yourself. I will definitely win, take it from me,&rdquo; he said.Musila said he is the best candidate. Charity Ngilu is also in the race on the Narc ticket.Kalonzo has said he is close to both Musila and Malombe and is torn because he wants to retain their friendship. Some Wiper leaders have criticised Musila for reneging on an agreement signed prior to the 2013 election. Kitui county Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson Ruth Mulandi told Musila to heed Kalonzo and honour the deal.PREVIOUS POLITICAL DEAL&ldquo;There was an agreement that Malombe, who hails from the Kitui subregion, would be allowed to defend his seat this year. A person from Mwingi would then be allowed to run for governor in 2022,&rdquo; she said.Mulandi said this would be in the best interests of the party, as its unity is necessary for Kalonzo to consolidate his support.Kitui Professionals coordinator Campbell Munyambu echoed her sentiments. &ldquo;Kalonzo&rsquo;s wish that Musila drop his governor bid was informed by his desire to see the Wiper brigade in Kitui remain united,&rdquo; he said.Meanwhile, Musila condemned what happened to Mutambu on Thursday, when he was involved in a gun drama with Bura North MP Ali Wario. Mutambu is alleged to have accused Wario of being behind the killings on the Kitui-Tana River border.Musila wants the government to intervene, saying residents cannot continue living like strangers in their motherland. &ldquo;So far, 25 locals have been killed since last year. The only Somali killed became a big issue. The Kamba man was sued. How many Somalis have been sued so far?&rdquo; Musila said.&ldquo;We can&rsquo;t accept this type of discrimination anymore. They use guns to kill locals. We&rsquo;ve been requesting the government to arm the locals, but nobody cares.&rdquo;