A key parliamentary committee has warned that taxi services provider Uber could be fleecing Kenyans through a pyramid-like
scheme. The Transport Committee, which has kicked off a probe into the operations of various digital taxis in the country, said Parliament must come up
with tough regulations to manage the sector. The panel chaired by Starehe MP Maina Kamanda said it will
pull all stops to instill fairness in pricing among taxi operators in the country
to spur job creation and economic growth. The committee also said it will summon taxman Kenya Revenue
Authority to find out if Uber is tax compliant amid claims of tax evasion. Only contracted drivers
reportedly pay the 16 per cent VAT while the company pockets tax free profits. “We can’t allow our people to suffer in another pyramid
scheme to take offer this country in the name of Uber taxis,” said Kamanda. Read: Uber drivers march to Parliament, demand new rules, revised rates The chairman also said the committee will summon all taxi
operators in the country including Uber as they seek to establish a stringent
regulatory regime. The committee is looking into a petition by the Kenya Taxi
cab Association seeking amendments to the Traffic Act and enactment of a model
traffic legislation for counties to ensure equitable regulation of the taxi
sub-sector. Independent taxis say digital taxis like Uber pick and drop passengers
anywhere, giving themselves undue advantage, given that the former operate from
designated and controlled points. They want Parliament to come up with uniform regulations to
manage all taxis operating in all the counties which will compel Uber to brand
their vehicles and also pick customers at specific points like other taxis. “The contracted drivers in the electronic taxi cab hailing
application companies operate from anywhere they choose to, giving them unfair competitive
edge over independent taxi cabs and corporate taxi cabs,” reads the petition. During Monday’s session at county hall, emotions ran high
among contracted Uber drivers who have also petitioned the House to come up with
a pricing cap for digital taxis. Simon Mutembei, a driver contracted by Uber could not hold
back tears as he urged the committee to reign in Uber for reportedly "locking
drivers in contracts without exit clauses". “Help us...don’t leave us, please. We are suffering and have
nowhere to run,” Mutembei yelled as he explained his ordeal to members. [VIDEO] Uber drivers protest frustration by management Also read: Uber drivers protest low pricing, threaten to join rival taxi services