Eunice Wambui who is the actress known to Kenyans as Nyasuguta for her role in Vitimbi, has started campaigning for the post of a member of parliament for Embakasi South. She was a darling to Vitimbi TV buffs countrywide before she quit her acting career in search of a political seat.As it is, politics is a dirty game with many underhanded tricks. Nyasuguta was caught smack in the middle of this. She was attacked by four goons on Friday 4, when she has gone to see a group of women in Mukuru Kwa Ruben."Three men attacked me as one of them kept watch. They punched my face and hit me with a wooden rod on my neck and back. I kept telling them, take the money I had but they did not steal anything from me. One of them even told me, 'Hatuna njaa ya pesa.' They later told me that 'Embakasi iko na wenyewe'," Nyasuguta told Word Is.The actress turned politician was nursing bruises all over her body, bleeding from her ears and had breathing problems after the assault. Since then, she has gone to hospital thrice so that the doctors can ascertain that she doesn't have internal bleeding.Nyasuguta says that she has been receiving threats from unknown people whom she suspects are affiliated to her political opponents, they call to tell her that one day they will undress her if he continues to pursue the Embakasi South MP seat."At first I was so scared and I even wanted to call it quits, but my supporters in Embakasi have told me to continue soldiering on. They have my back. The sabotage has gotten so bad to the point where I find my car had been vandalised when I would go to check on the various projects I'm working on at the constituencies. Nowadays I just use a taxi," She told Word Is.This brutal attack has not reduced her resolve to go out there and campaign harder and stronger. She advised other female political aspirants to adhere to the following rules this campaign period."I have learnt that security is important. Always walk in a group. When someone calls you at night for a meeting, don't go, it could be a trap set by your opponents. Also don't trust anyone because the people you know are the ones used to lure you into a trap," Nyasuguta said.Adding, "I have forgiven those goons and the master who sent them. All I want to have is a peaceful campaign and to let the people decide."Aspiring MCA Maringo/Hamza ward, Dennis Muthenya Musau condemned the act of violence against Nyasuguta saying, "Women should never be intimidated, the person who ordered the attack is not a leader but a hooligan and that clearly states he has sensed defeat. Get well soon Nyasuguta, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger."