SOME call them the Jubilee Online Army, some refer to them as the Jubilee Gang, while others prefer calling them the 36 Bloggers. It&rsquo;s said they are paid to defend the government and dismiss the opposition online. Of interest is their inability to spin against opposition chief Raila Odinga (pictured). They don&rsquo;t seem to have any new facts, as they employ the same lines used by former President Mwai Kibaki and former President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s propagandists. When they respond to a comment of a person who has &lsquo;attacked&rsquo; the government, you&rsquo;ll never lack lines like &ldquo;Raila will never be President&rdquo;. There are also fabricated corruption stories against the opposition. In short, they troll poorly and ineptly. Why pay for incompetence? Word has it that a senior Nairobi county officer attached to the Parking department at City Hall has assumed so much power that he is responsible for haphazard transfers of staff. The man, who was recently arrested with an illegal gun but was not charged in court after he allegedly bribed a police officer, is reported to have transferred several staff without his boss&rsquo;s knowledge. He was overheard bragging that neither the county secretary nor any officer can stand up to him if he wants to be paid - even for supplying nothing. PERHAPS Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i would be interested in this: A prominent girls&rsquo; school in West Pokot has among its employees a veritable &ldquo;Bull of Auckland&rdquo; for a teacher. The man employed by the Board of Management appears to enjoy the protection of powerful forces. Despite being caught red-handed in the female dorms several times and having impregnated many well-known students in the last few years, the man still sits pretty. He is shameless. Unfortunately, the school is run by perhaps the country&rsquo;s longest-serving head teacher, fanning fears that she lacks lessons on modern school management. She has been at the helm of the school since 1987 and appears not to be perturbed by the goings in the institution that has over-enrolled: It has over 470 form one students. a JP honcho from Central is a worried man after his financial vaults were drained. After leading an unrivalled luxury lifestyle over the last four years, he is increasingly becoming worried over his reelection bid. The MP previously used to regularly change cars and bimbos but has, all of a sudden, to the surprise of even parliamentary orderlies, slashed down his budget drastically. It used to include handouts to some staff. The MP, who was once among a team of Jubilee foot soldiers well known for crisscrossing the country in choppers and holding high-flying harambees, retreated after certain inlets from the Treasury were blocked.