Fifteen timber company vehicles were burnt by a mob on Monday night after one of its lorries struck and killed two people in Mariashoni, Molo. The two people were a boda boda rider and his passenger, returning from church, resident John Kariuki said. The Comply Limited vehicles included multimillion shilling logging equipment, forklifts and trucks. The accident occurred at the Kaprop Junction at 8.30pm, when a truck loaded with timber hit the motorbike, killing rider and passenger on the spot. The deaths angered residents who torched the vehicle and moved into Kiptunga Forest, where the multinational company operates and burnt another 14. Mariashoni chief Samson Salim said more than 100 youths were involved. He said the lorries they torched were ready to ferry logs to Elburgon. Molo police and security officers manning the forest fought running battles with the youths. They were overpowered by the young men, causing a security scare. Speaking at the scene, police boss Daniel Kimanza yesterday said six lorries, seven loaders, a canter and a Land Cruiser were burnt. “Drivers of the timber company fled for safety,” he said. Kenya Forest Service head of Mau Conservancy Cosmas Ikiugu condemned the violence. “Lives have been lost. However, residents should not take the law into their own hands to torch trucks,” he said on the phone. “Why could they go to the logging camp and burn other lorries? My team is on the ground to seek more information about the incident.” Salim urged residents to stop breaching the peace. MCA Agnes Salim also called for calm. Regional police commander Hassan Barua and other security officers were expected to visit the scene and calm residents. On several occasions, the Ogiek community has expressed anger over destruction of forests in their backyard and urged the government to stop logging by several saw millers and multinational companies. In 2015, more than 500 members of the Maasai and Ogiek communities accused the government of issuing logging permits to 87 sawmillers “who are non-residents”