Hassan Joho has reprimanded the President's Jubilee administration over the war on drugs saying they should clean their house first. DP William Ruto said on Monday that individuals&nbsp;engaging in the business had been given notice "that the end has come and there is no more space, room and time for them to&nbsp;engage&nbsp;in drugs". But an agitated Joho told a press conference in Mombasa on Tuesday that the government was being insincere in the war on drugs, which have been described as wiping off the Coast. President Uhuru Kenyatta talked tough against drug dealing during a visit to the Coast, when he said that his administration will eliminate barons. But he has been criticised for reiterating his remarks over the years, while the illegal business carries on.More on this:&nbsp;[VIDEO] Kenya will eliminate drug barons wiping out Coast, Uhuru warns"Jubilee should first clear their house first before coming here to talk about drugs. This is just for campaigning and nothing else," said the Mombasa Governor.Joho reiterated that he does not deal in drugs and said the government will not intimidate him. "I am not aware that I am being probed for drugs. How do you give a bank robber notice? If you know barons why don't you arrest them?" he posed."Why do you release reckless notices. We need to save this county."The county chief said investigation linking him to the illicit trade were conducted years ago and that he was&nbsp;exonerated."The narrative that I am&nbsp;a drug dealer was peddled in 2013 to deny me a&nbsp;chance to vie.&nbsp;We are seeing the same narrative being driven now. I am telling you I will be on the ballot."Joho asked the government to stop campaigning and playing with people's lives. "Safisha nyumba yenu (clean your house)," he repeated in Kiswahili. "I find it unfortunate that they can use this (drugs menace) to get votes. They won't succeed," he said.[VIDEO] Joho wanted suspected drug baron released, was not arrested, says Marwa[AUDIO] Only drug dealers want many guns, says MarwaThe county boss, who has often given President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto a verbal thrashing, said votes lie with the people, not agencies.Joho claimed there were deliberate efforts to lock him out of the August 8 general election, in which he intends to vie for re-election."The government must be told that the votes lie with the people.&nbsp; I expect&nbsp;that the worst things will come in the future," he said.&nbsp; But he added: "This will not earn them the votes. As a man, I will fight them until my name is on the ballot." [VIDEO] Ruto declares Shahbal Jubilee candidate to vie against Joho, Mwaboza running mateThe Governor said Jubilee should turn its focus from press conferences to genuine solutions to the drugs menace. "We have been calling barazas to sensitise the community. We have done our bit through the Hassan Joho Foundation," he said."We have taken to the streets to make sure arrests are made. I am the Governor and I have never had a formal engagement of the chairman of security in Mombasa."Noting that more&nbsp; than 600 people have been taken to rehabilitation centres, Joho said the Deputy President should not talk on what he has no idea about. Ruto asked&nbsp;the Opposition to declare its stand on the war on drugs saying many youths in Mombasa have been affected.&nbsp;But Joho said the DP did not know the strides they had made as a government. "More than 600 people are in rehab centres. This is an indicator that we appreciate the magnitude. We don't play politics with peoples lives as much as you want us to clap. It should not be turned into a political contest," he said.Ruto acknowledged on Monday that some&nbsp; security officers have been compromised by drug barons but said action will be taken against them. He told the media in Mombasa that the laxity of officers in the area must end for the war to be won.The Deputy President&nbsp;noted that money from drug dealing is used to fund terrorists.Al Shabaab militants have continued to carry out attacks in several parts of Kenya in response to the KDF's presence in Somalia, as part of the Amisom peacekeeping force.More on this:&nbsp;Ruto tells opposition to declare stand on drugs, as narcotics mess up youth