Governors from Nyanza are facing stiff competition from rivals and former allies, with whom they split over ideology, corruption and unfulfilled promises.A number of the former allies of the governors want to unseat them, while others are backing their opponents.Hezron McObewa, a former staunch supporter of Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, seeks to unseat him. McObewa, who financed Ranguma in 2013, disagreed over corruption claims and poor performance.Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga and Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o also want to unseat him.They have accused him of abetting corruption, poor leadership and lack of inclusivity in his administration.Ranguma is also facing resistance from Nyando MP Fred Outa, a former ally. Outa has closed ranks with Nyong&rsquo;o to replace him in the Senate as Nyong&rsquo;o seeks to replace Ranguma.Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor has also shifted allegiance to McObewa.Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti and former staunch supporter Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga have become rivals. Magwanga has accused Awiti of corruption, poor development and unfair resource distribution.Awiti has also lost support from Karachuonyo MP James Rege. Both come from the larger Karachuonyo, which controls many votes. Magwanga and Rege supported Awiti in the last election. Karachuonyo votes are crucial for Awiti&rsquo;s second term bid.Awiti will also face businessmen Sammy Wakiaga and Enosh Bolo, who accused him of dismal performance. Wakiaga said the county lags behind despite Treasury development funds. &ldquo;Our people are still poor,&rdquo; Bolo said.In Kisii, Governor James Ongwae of ODM will compete with Deputy Governor Joash Maangi and Senator Chris Obure. Mangi and Obure were close allies of Ongwae, before splitting over management of county resources.Migori Governor Okoth Obado is facing sharp criticism from his former Roads executive Erastus Nyamori, who has been questioning his performance. He has also been attacking Obado over alleged corruption. The governor, who was elected on the PDP ticket, has decamped to ODM. He will compete with former minister Ochillo Ayacko.uphill task for rasangaIn Siaya, Governor Cornel Rasanga enjoys the support of only two MPs &mdash; Oburu Oginga (nominated) and Opiyo Wandayi of Ugunja. In 2013, he received enormous support from the seven county MPs.Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo joined Rasanga after he declared interest in being Siaya governor in 2015. Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, a fierce critic of Rasanga&rsquo;s administration, pledges to campaign against Rasanga.Midiwo has branded Rasanga &ldquo;the lord of corruption&rdquo;, alleging he has been oiling the wheels of corruption ever since he took office.Ugenya MP David Ochieng clashed with Rasanga after he delayed fulfilling his Sh10 million promise to support Ugenya Teachers College.Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda and Omondi Muluan of Alego Usonga have not said who they will support for governor. But their supporters said they are not supporting Rasanga.Joseph Nyambori, who was chief campaigner for Migori ODM governor aspirant Oyugi Akong&rsquo;o, said the realignments are caused by the need to get back to former allies and safeguard personal interests.Nyambori said most governors have moved back to gain support from their former critics to counter their allies and have found themselves with most aspiring to be governors in the August polls.