Residents living along Outer Ring Road have accused the contractor expanding the road of not building drainage, leading to flooding when it rains.They say SinoHydro Corporation has not put up alternative outlets to replace the drains blocked by the construction.Wambui Muigai, a resident of Pioneer estate, said the place flooded when it rained a week ago. This despite the amount of rainfall being too small to cause any flooding, she said.&ldquo;Somebody please assist us. Things will get worse,&rdquo; Muigai said.Enoch Wafula, a resident of Donholm estate, said it would be a disaster if it rains heavily. &ldquo;It is no joke. The government and the county must be serious about it. Otherwise, let&rsquo;s expect the worst,&rdquo; he said.Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia yesterday said they have asked the contractor to unclog the drainage.Nairobi Transport executive Mohamed Abdullahi said, &ldquo;Yes I am aware [of the situation] and we have directed the contractor to address it.&rdquo;In 2015, many parts of the capital flooded after heavy rains. Many residents were killed and others displaced. The county was blamed for failing to unclog blocked drains.The construction of the 13km Outer Ring Road started in September 2015 and was scheduled to be completed by December 2017. It has however been hit by setbacks, which could delay the project.&ldquo;The project is 35 per cent complete, which is lower than previously planned,&rdquo; Macharia said in October last year.The government is expanding the road into an eight-lane highway. This is expected to significantly reduce traffic jams on the road.The road, which connects Thika Road and North Airport Road in Embakasi, is one of the city&rsquo;s business corridors as it passes through Eastlands, the most populated part of t city.&ldquo;The main challenge is that this is an urban road, coupled with the slow pace of relocating existing infrastructure like power, drainage, water and communication lines,&rdquo; Macharia said.