The start of the 2017 SportPesa Premier League campaign is far from certain after Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Executive Committee suspended the Kenyan Premier League.FKF NEC suspended the Premier League custodians after defying court rulings and recommendations from the federation on an 18-team league and further instituted disciplinary proceedings against four leading lights including KPL CEO Jack Oguda, chairman James Musyoki (Tukser), vice chairman Ambrose Rachier (Gor) and Mathare United chairman Bob Munro. Flanked by members of his executive among them vice president Doris Petra, David Gikaria, Tony Kweyu, Timothy Mabea and Chris Amimo, a visibly agitated FKF President Nick Mwendwa accused KPL of undermining the federation&rsquo;s ambitions of cleaning up the game and ignoring decisions of the Sports Disciplinary Tribunal. &ldquo;The ruling by the SDT was very clear that it was within our mandate to have an 18-team league subject to us meeting the financial conditions for an expanded league this year and KPL were firmly aware of that. However, they went on to release a fixture with sixteen teams, defying the court order and also our recommendations. It is for this reason that we have summoned four individuals to explain themselves because they were part of the Joint Executive Committee that came up with the agreements but went on to mislead others to contravene the agreement,&rdquo; said Mwendwa.The federation supremo without mentioning names took particular issue with KPL CEO Oguda for failing to invite Nzoia United and other promoted clubs to their governing council meeting, which ostensibly came up with the decision to reinstate Sofapaka and Muhoroni Youth despite them not meeting the licensing criteria. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a shame that they didn&rsquo;t invite Nzoia to a critical meeting that has implications on their participation in the league. As for the other individual (Rachier) summoned, it is because of issuing unilateral letters to the media, conferring participation rights to teams that have not met the strict licensing rules and they will have to explain themselves,&rdquo; added Mwendwa. The FKF boss warned that unless their recommendation and the ruling of the SDT are adhered to strictly, the league might not kick off this week. &ldquo;We want the league to start so that our players can go to the pitch but rules are rules. It is not us who came up with the decision to impose the licensing rules. This was a demand from CAF that should have been concluded between 2011-2015. Now we have got communication that the soft part of the licensing must be implemented without delay from CAF,&rdquo; explained Mwendwa, who maintained that the federation has raised Sh16m so far to help offset the Sh24.3m they are supposed to pay KPL for the league to be expanded to 18 teams for this year&rsquo;s campaign.