UK explorer Acacia Mining says it has encountered a &ldquo;high-grade&rdquo; gold resource in Western Kenya with a potential of 1.31 million ounces. The London Stock Exchange-listed company yesterday said the resource is not fully verified, but described the project as one of the highest-grade projects in Africa in recent times based on geological evidence. Located in Kakamega county, Liranda Corridor project covers a 30 square-square-kilometre area within Special Licence 213, and faces the North East of Acacia's West Kenya Project consisting of five exploration licences, covering approximately 1,600 square kilometres. &ldquo;We believe that this initial resource is a first step in the delineation of a multimillion-ounce high-grade corridor,&rdquo; Acacia CEO Brad Gordon said. The company, which made the announcement at the Ministry of Mining headquarters, said it has spent nearly $30 million (Sh3.1billion) in the past four years, exploring more than 2,800 square kilometres in Kenya since 2012. Exploration manager Tim Sharp said plans are afoot to prospect further on the corridor over the next 12 months, while investing more than $12 million (Sh1.2billion). &ldquo;A large percentage of this amount will go towards a 45,000 meter drilling programme on the corridor which is targeting an increase in the gold resource to over two million ounces in 2017,&rdquo; Sharp said. The latest development renews hopes in the gold mining sector which has had limited exploration activity, with companies in East Africa focusing primarily on Tanzania. Given the lack of activity, the gold potential of Kenya has not been systematically explored using modern exploration techniques, and is seen as a highly attractive opportunity, according to Acacia. &ldquo;This greenfield discovery demonstrates the value of our systematic approach to grassroots exploration and validates our contrarian strategy of investing in exploration over the past few years, whilst others have been pulling back,&rdquo; Gordon said. &ldquo;Despite being a major discovery, significant further exploration and technical study work is required to establish whether this becomes an economically viable mine which will take several years.&rdquo; Sharp said the earliest mining activities could take place is 2022, after the company makes an investment decision, to be determined by global commodity prices and Kenya&rsquo;s legislative environment. Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu said the government has provided a conducive environment for sustainable mineral exploration. &ldquo;We are taking significant steps such as the ratification of the 2016 Mining Act to establish a robust legislative framework to support our developing mining industry,&rdquo; Kazungu said.