ODM, the most popular party in Coast, is facing challenges that threaten to undo the gains they have made since 2007. The first challenge is posed by NASA .The issue is NASA&rsquo;s place in ODM campaigns. The fear is that should NASA come first in the campaign trail, this may overshadow ODM&rsquo;s identity, which has taken years to build and entrench among Coast residents. This fear of losing identity was visible when party leaders and supporters were conspicuously absent during last week&rsquo;s visits to the Coast by ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka.The second and most pressing issue is based on the party nominations. Cracks are already emerging in some of the party&rsquo;s most trusted zones &mdash; Kilifi, Kwale and Taita Taveta counties. All indications are that, left unattended, these cracks threaten to tear ODM to pieces.In Kilifi, two ODM aspirants may account for the party&rsquo;s nominations fiasco. Willy Mtengo, the incumbent Malindi MP and Kilifi Woman representative Aisha Jumwa, are fighting for the seat with a vengeance. Both have stated publicly that they want to win Malindi by any means &mdash; short of violence.On the face of it, Mtengo and Jumwa enjoy a close political working relationship with local ODM leaders such as Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho as well as party leader Raila Odinga. But the war of words has intensified. During a public rally last month in Kilifi town, Mtengo asked Raila to ensure free, fair and transparent nominations in Malindi, failing to which ODM would face a revolt.A similar fallout should be in the offing in Kwale county, another ODM zone. The two individuals threatening to tear the party apart over nominations are Chirau Mwakwere, the party&rsquo;s latest catch, and county speaker Sammy Ruwa, who has previously enjoyed massive support from ODM deputy party deader and Mombasa Governor Joho. Mwakwere&rsquo;s triumphal welcome into the ODM Kwale chapter by none other than Joho and other ODM heavyweights was not only a slap in the face for speaker Ruwa, but also the other aspirants who had considered ODM as their own.The entry of the elderly Mwakwere into ODM and the massive reception he got from the party hierarchy has created fear among other aspirants that the nominations might not be free, fair and transparent. They fear Mwakwere is the preferred candidate.In Taita Taveta county, another ODM zone, the party&rsquo;s problems are twofold. The first is intra-party squabbles that have pitted Governor John Mruttu on one hand, and other elected leaders such as Senator Dan Mwazo and Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu. And now, with the party nominations looming, the squabbles seem to worsen. The fear is that ODM leaders could favour Governor Mruttu, which is likely. The first salvo against ODM&rsquo;s way of doing things was fired by Mwazo over the &ldquo;six-piece-suit&rdquo; voting pattern, preferred by the party leadership. The Senator is now reportedly heading to Musyoka&rsquo;s Wiper Party.This means that if Orange House will prefer Mruttu in the nominations to other aspirants &mdash; as is likely to be the case &mdash; other leaders such as Mwadeghu will have to seek refuge elsewhere. These challenges do not in any way suggest that ODM&rsquo;s popularity is on the decline in the Coast. It is still, by far, the party to watch. However, there is a wind of change blowing across the region, suggesting that in the August polls, voters should elect people based on character and the ability to lead rather than accepting parties to chose leaders for them, as they did in 2013.Should the six-piece-suit voting pattern be rejected, the ODM wave that has been in place in the Coast since the 2007 elections could be reversed. ODM will be the loser.