Kifuku is a mixed farm on 6,000 acres near Rumuruti in Laikipia. It is owned and managed by the Dodds family, who have been there for many years. It has been under persistent attack and harassment for the last year. It is adjacent to Lombara farm where the owner John Wachira Mwai was shot and crippled by raiders in July 2016. Lombara is now permanently occupied by Samburu. In the last month attacks on Kifuku have escalated dramatically. Here is an abridged diary of the attacks on Kifuku in the last month, as compiled by Maria Dodds. A longer diary dating back to May 2016 is on the Star website.24 December &ndash; attempted stock theft at cattle yards by Samburu. Shots were fired at a watchman at cattle yards. The watchman at Lorian solar house was told by Pokot to leave or he would be killed.28 December &ndash; at 7 am the wall was broken on Kieni section and over 300 head of Samburu cattle pushed in. While chasing them out, they fired two shots at us. At 5 pm while returning from the AP base on Kifuku, we were driving on the main access road and saw illegal cattle. Approximately 15 shots were fired at us.30 December - security meeting in Nanyuki where Chiefs and Assistant chiefs from Ol Moran were called and told to proceed to Kifuku, identify the owners of the cattle illegally grazing, give them 2 days notice to leave or force would be used. Some of the Pokot have left with their cattle but others have arrived. 2January 2017 &ndash; a neighbour&rsquo;s vehicle ambushed in Morogo valley on main road to Rumuruti at 6.30 pm by six armed Samburu with motorbikes. One armed AP shot in lower leg and one staff member shot in buttocks. Illegal grazers are still on Kifuku in big numbers. Samburu cattle with Turkana and Nandi communities are now enjoying the breakdown of law and order and pushing in with cattle, sheep and goats. We have already sold about 250 head of unfinished cattle to make way for enough grass for the breeding herds but the situation as the dry weather continues is getting critical.8 January &ndash; theft of 29 heifers at 5pm by Samburu who beat up the herdsman. They were followed onto George Mwai&rsquo;s farm by Police officers by no cattle recovered. Thousands of illegal cattle were leaving Kifuku and most likely Kifuku cattle were mixed into them. A white Toyota LandCruiser registration KAC687C was followed. After an exchange of fire, police took possession of the vehicle which was towed to Rumuruti Police station. The car contained supply rations of sugar, tea, beans, onions, maize meal. A serving GSU officer Ltorupa Lengolos was arrested and was due to go to court on Tuesday 10 January. What was he doing on land not belonging to him? Why is he involved in the hostile takeover of Lombara Farm? Why did he evade and later fire at police? 9 January &ndash; illegal cattle pushing our cattle out of the remaining grass across from the big dam. We managed to stop the attempted theft of our herd of stud cattle. At midday one herd of Pokot cattle openly drank at big dam, one unarmed herder visible. At 2.30 another herd of cattle came to the spillway of big dam but shots were fired at cattle to deter them. Three cattle were killed. About 5 pm, 12 people were spotted openly walking on other side of big dam and nine were armed with AKs. One fired one shot at the house, we returned fire with two shots and then retreated. Police came and did an operation across dam wall.10 January &ndash; at 8am we fired shots towards tail of big dam to turn cattle coming in to graze. They continued further west where they have been grazing everyday. At 2pm eight armed men were spotted on other side of big dam. One shot was fired at them. They returned fire but headed away along the top of valley. The AP County Commander visited to hear first hand what is going on. At 6.30pm 21 heifers of the 29 stolen were returned and found halfway up the main road into farm. Five APs are now at the house every night11 January - quiet morning but still thousands of cattle all over the farm. Around 1pm two Police vehicles and two police lorries arrived and proceeded down the Kieni boundary towards the causeway dam. A lot of fire was heard which came within 20 metres of house where we were taking cover. Eventually the police retreated after one officer was injured. In the chaos two breeding cows were stolen and were slaughtered and eaten. Around 6 pm, 30 armed Samburu were seen moving from Pesi past Kieni into the Morogo Valley and crossed into the farm. 12 January - thousands of cattle still coming in each day, dust visible each morning as they are pushed in and each evening as they leave. At 12.30pm six armed men were spotted coming down to dam wall followed followed by another 18. Shots were fired at farm vehicle as it went to the office to get security. The armed men advanced across the dam wall hiding on the back side where they vandalised a Lister engine and water pump. Then 3 armed men stood up on dam wall, about 90 metres from the verandah, and fired towards the road. We all had taken cover in the house. The farm security returned fire. No police got to the house until about 3.30pm because of the problems at Mugie. The firefight continued with five men across the dam from the house and another group in the far spillway. At 6.30pm the armed men moved back and near the open plain they split into two groups - one carrying on west where most of the Pokot are grazing and the other moving south to the Kieni boundary where the Samburu are based. We estimate the armed Samburu and Pokot fired between 50 &ndash; 75 rounds towards us. Police left but only after the cattle were all locked up. Five APs came for the night.13 January &ndash; a team of Aps, Rumuruti OCS and police officers arrived very early to set up an ambush. A group of 20 armed men then dispersed and no contact was made. At 4.15 pm, just after the police had left, two shots were fired from where the group was last seen.14 January - about 10.30 am about 20 armed men didn&rsquo;t approach the dam, possibly having seen the police vehicle. Around 4.30pm they surrounded some of our cattle in the valley below the dam. We fired shots towards them, they managed to push 11 head towards their cattle but eventually they left the cattle and retreated. A stud cow was badly injured.15 January - At 11am one person was spotted sitting in a tree about 500 metres from the house and was joined by seven armed men. One shot was fired from that area about 12.30. Around 2 pm, two shots were fired towards the house from the gum trees on far side of dam. 16 January &ndash; It was a very sad day as the first herds of stud cattle left the farm to go to safer pastures until the impunity is sorted out. We saw up to 35 armed people. Two armed Pokot walking behind the cattle yards around midday, they tried to speak to one of our staff but he refused to get into conversation with them. At 4.30 pm part of the armed gang got to the drinking trough between the farm office and my house. One herd of stud cattle were walking up to the yards for the night. They were ambushed by two people who split the herd, the herdsman blew his whistle. We alerted the 5 APs at the house who pointed out that the armed pastoralists would ambush anyone trying to follow them as they were only 5 against the 35. The cattle were run through the valley and crossed into thick bush. The police attempted to stop the theft by firing at the armed men who returned fire. Once the remaining cattle were rounded up, we established that 19 stud breeding cows and 21 calves were missing. 17 January - two more herds of our cattle left the farm with police escort. Our relief at our &lsquo;peaceful&rsquo; day was short lived. At 7pm the night radio man at the main gate wasn&rsquo;t answering his radio when called. Two APs went down to the main gate. They had been attacked by four Samburu men, one carrying an AK, the others carrying rungus and pangas. They were beaten and the occupants of a car belonging to Pesi residents were also beaten. The thugs then stole the farm base station radio, 12 V battery, solar panel and electric fence energiser. 18 January &ndash; the tracker dogs arrived at 6.20 but we had to wait for two hours for the police. The dogs picked up the scent and headed down to the Pesi River, through Matigari and up to boda bodas where the scent was lost. One breeding cattle herd was loaded onto lorries and headed off for safe keeping. At 12.30 one herd of cattle was ambushed by armed men towards the Kieni boundary. The police followed up but the cattle were sped off and mixed into other cattle very quickly. Five cows, one stud Bull and 3 calves were lost. We flew around the farm in a plane and one shot was fired at the aircraft. Thousands of head of cattle were seen all over the farm. As the police were deciding on what action to take, a herd of cattle came down to the big dam with lots of armed men. The APs and Police fired to push them back. If the illegal grazers gain control here, then that will be the end as they will then have access to our last grass. The farm houses, staff housing, and office will be surrounded. Thursday 19 January &ndash; we sent another two herds of cattle off the farm for safe-keeping. One shouldn&rsquo;t have to do this. We checked up on the remaining cattle constantly with extra herdsmen on each herd and grazing close to the house compound and watering in the house compound. Radios going constantly with reports of armed men gathering, climbing trees, splitting up and regrouping again. Illegal cattle encroaching closer and closer. We met Kikuyu smallholder neighbours who realise that if Kifuku is overrun then they are next. They already are having problems. Around 4.30pm one shot was fired from just below the dam wall towards the house. It hit a young bull grazing peacefully in the compound. It was shot in the lung so we had to put it down. Friday 20 January - another four lorries left the farm for safekeeping. Illegal cattle are still pouring in every morning. Six armed Samburu came in the main gate from Matigari openly carrying their AKs and shouted abuse at the Kikuyu gateman. The APs and Police arrived at 11.30 am and engaged in an exchange of fire which lasted until about 4pm. Armed men fired at the house with several shots landing very close. Luckily no cattle were hit. Our cattle numbers are now much smaller. We couldn&rsquo;t go down to the main gate this evening as Turkana women coming back from Rumuruti warned that armed Samburu were waiting just below the cattle yards to ambush us.Saturday 21 January &ndash; another day of violence and mayhem. We weighed the cull heifers to sell off rather than look for grazing. Armed men gathered and dispersed then regrouped. The APs and Police were here waiting for the armed invaders to fire the first shot but they didn't. Soon after the Police left one shot was heard towards the main road. Then George went to lock up the cattle and as he got home at 7.30 pm he was shot at walking down to the house. I would love to believe that this is just a drought and pastoralists are desperate for grass but this is far more sinister and the government seems unable or unwilling to stop it.January 22 - the tracker dogs came to follow the scent from the three guys who tried to shoot George and within a few minutes of tracking they were fired upon. The tracking was called off. The rest of the day was spent with the Police and APs shot at and returning fire. Things eventually calmed down in the evening and all the Police left. The cattle were locked up and we were waiting for the night shift of 5 APs to arrive. Then about 7.15 we heard a couple of shots close by, on the dam wall, and then a lot of firing towards the cattle yards and offices. We called the APs to alert them. We've been called to say some cattle that could belong to us and another farm have been impounded near Nyahururu. Monday 23 January - our remaining herds of cows go grazing but four armed men were seen in the thick bush between our house and the yards and offices so we had to wait for the day shift of APs to arrive. At the yards many of our staff were waiting to see us. Some wanted to leave permanently, others wanted to take a few weeks off. The farm invasion has hit our staff extremely hard. It is sad for them and those who rely on their income. Luckily some staff are ready to hang in here for a bit longer. Each herd now has three or four herdsmen. More staff were threatened by people on motorbikes on the access road. We couldn't get access to the house on the dam to see the damage. We heard two shots and suspect it was them shooting the lock on the door to gain access. We all relaxed until 4 pm when I stepped onto the veranda in a red shirt and one shot was fired at us. We quickly took cover. At 8.30 a volley of shots was fired over the backyard in another attempt to steal some of our remaining cattle. It was prevented by our own security. President Uhuru Kenyatta in Rumuruti stated that land invasions on private property would not be tolerated. We sincerely hope that this is the turning point in an otherwise desperate situation. Tuesday January 24 - another herd left the farm for safekeeping. We are now collecting water by bowser to take to remaining cattle due to the pump being vandalized. We are having to buy in feed for our cattle, while other cattle not belonging to us are grazing freely. The local Police and APs continue to assist us as much as they can but they need back up. Top of FormJanuary 25JanuaJanuary 25 &ndash; a peace meeting was held off the farm with Pokot and Samburu leaders and police. After the meeting we were assured that there would be no more shooting, theft and vandalism. Two hours later about 10 or 12 shots were fired towards the car and the house. The Rumuruti OCS had also just left and was fired upon between the yards and the main road and then the APs were fired upon. This blatant aggression shown to the government is not a great precedent. The tide has to turn, law and order must be restored. January 26 - we heard shooting up in the plains and were told they were shooting at elephant. We spent the day watching herds and herds of illegal cattle and groups of armed people gathering. Our first lorry load of hay arrived and the recovered Boran cows were delighted but still turning their noses up at dairy meal. Bowsers of water are trucked up all morning to fill troughs and tanks. APs and Police here and helping where they can. Friday January 27 - we finally managed to get to the cottage on the dam to assess the damage. The staff houses have been burnt, the store has been broken into and anything useful stolen. The two dogs that lived there had both been speared but were still alive. We had to put them both down. This is not about 'Kiangazi na Nyasi' - drought and grass - this is a sinister plan, well coordinated and planned. The security personnel in Rumuruti, the Laikipia County AP Commander, Police Commander and County Commissioner have tried very hard to be helpful but do not have enough personnel or resources to cope for a sustained removal of illegal grazers. The illegal grazing and aggression escalates each time an operation happens but doesn&rsquo;t succeed.