The five men who were slain and their bodies dumped in Kamae Forest, Thika, were tortured and choked to death, an independent postmortem has shown. The family has handed over the postmortem report to a human rights group to assist in pushing for further investigations and for justice to be served. Speaking at their home in Nakuru, the family spokesman David Njenga said the report shows the men were also beaten with blunt objects before acid was poured on their bodies.&ldquo;An independent postmortem report shows these young men were seriously tortured. They were not shot dead because there was no bullet wounds in their bodies. They were chocked using polythene papers, with their hands and legs tied. Their heads were hit with blunt objects and their eyes gouged,&rdquo; Njenga said. The family said investigations were still ongoing although the five will be buried today.The three brothers, Paul Mutunga 31, Paul Mwai 26 and Daniel Ikenye 22, will be laid to rest at their father's farm in Sachangwan, one cousin will be buried in Mau Summit while the fifth one will be interred in Molo. The five had gone missing for three weeks. The three brothers and a cousin Francis Kariuki had left home on January 18 to register as voters but they never returned. The fifth body of their other cousin also went missing the same week. The five were later found gruesomely murdered and dumped on January 29.A special team of homicide experts from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has taken over the investigations into the killings. "A team of DCI detectives visited us on Friday and started their investigations. They also came to the mortuary on Monday as we were planning to settle bills. We recorded statements and we hope the culprits will face justice,&rdquo; said Kigo.Last week, the Head of DCI Ndegwa Muhoro who spoke in Nakuru town said that the team is under firm instructions to ensure that those behind the killings are arrested and brought to book.He made an assurance that killings will be investigated to conclusion and those culpable prosecuted.Tens of residents, relatives and friends to the family continued milling around the homestead to comfort the family.Ends&hellip;...