WAS former President Mwai Kibaki (pictured) afraid that he would be indicted by the ICC after retiring from State House? Well, a 2012 dossier by the ICC, initially filed as confidential, claims that Kibaki&rsquo;s suspicions about the ICC were based in part on efforts by then Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta and his associates to persuade the man from Othaya that the Prosecution intended to charge him when he stepped down from office. The document also indicates that a senior member of the National Intelligence Service telephoned a Prosecution sleuth and requested for a meeting. It&rsquo;s not clear how the ICC handled the request. But in the document, The Hague Prosecutor documents what she believes was massive interference with the cases, which finally crumbled. That politicians are employing all manner of unorthodox means to harvest more voters in the ongoing final national mass registration is no secret. Now a constituency within Garissa county, which borders a refugee camp, has come under close scrutiny by security agencies. This is after it emerged that some crafty politicians have bought about 5,000 fake IDs, which they are using to register selected individuals. What those spending a fortune to boost their chances of winning at the August poll don&rsquo;t know is the fact that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission will eventually clean the register through verification with the genuine records held by the National Registration Bureau. Just why are land fraud suspects being referred to a certain judicial official in a county within Central? Is it that this is the new home for those criminals who want to go the extra mile to do what it takes to get their way? Well, investigations have unearthed a mega syndicate within the corridors of justice behind the scam. The influential individuals frequent the law courts and through a judicial officer are now obtaining court injunctions in a bid to defeat or delay justice. Surprisingly, the intention of the court orders is to frustrate police investigations and deal justice a big blow. The sudden rush by young moneyed politicians to contest for a parliamentary seat in a constituency in Bungoma county on the Jubilee Party ticket has left a former prominent MP like a deer caught in the headlights of an onrushing truck. More than seven candidates - including one wealthy Nairobi businessman and a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto &ndash; are eyeing the seat on the JP ticket. Things are so bad for the former lawmaker, who abhors free and fair party processes and has past elections avoided party primaries by bullying his opponents by falsely invoking the names of party leaders, he is considering ditching Jubilee. Talk about being caught between a rock and a hard place!