JUST what goes on on the fourth floor of Eagle House in CBD&rsquo;s Kimathi Street? Well, Corridors is aware that it is just a matter of time before the combined force of the police and anti-corruption detectives descend on those behind the shady activities that go on in this city building. Even as the detectives plan the raid, Corridors is informed that this is where fake land leases are made and the illegal transfers of county and private property effected. A mole at the facility whispers to Corridors that the husband of a senior employee at City Hall is the man behind this multimillion-shilling racket. ***** THEY say chickens always come home to roost. Corridors has learnt that the application of this saying is really taking its toll on some MPs from Ukambani, who had announced their defection to Jubilee Party with much gusto and verve. However, despite all these energies and praise for Jubilee, the MPs have suddenly gone quiet. The praises for Jubilee have dried up. And as if this were not enough, and with the threat of decimating their political careers hanging over their heads, some are already contemplating returning to Wiper and other parties, for instance Narc and Muungano, in a bid to avoid a bleak political future. Some, including the noisy ones, have been sending emissaries and feelers out to their former parties as they accuse Jubilee of taking them for a ride. ***** WORD has it that one of the Jubilee candidates for Nairobi governor is very a worried person indeed. It is said that after defecting from ODM to Jubilee, things have thickened for the aspirant, who ensured his bridges were well and truly burnt after the crossing over. It is said that the Jubilee top brass has decided to ignore the aspirant, despite concerted efforts to make the party acknowledge this person. To make matters worse, the Jubilee leadership no longer pick the candidate&rsquo;s calls nor respond to the many text messages. Those in the know say this has really worried the aspirant who is contemplating a return to the Orange party. The aspirant recently met the Orange bigwigs to discuss the possible return. ***** WAS a senior Jubilee official a victim of a recent heinous attack by his opponents? Corridors has been abuzz with information that the official, from a not-so-friendly Jubilee region, was attacked by hooligans after he visited his parents a few days ago, accusing him of betraying the community, which has no room for ruling party. This clearly besieged man had nothing to mollify his attackers with as they descended on him with blows and kicks. Interestingly, the man decided not to have the matter reported to police - for fear of embarrassment.