It is official: There are now two camps in Jubilee&rsquo;s highest echelons of power. One is aligned to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the other Deputy President William Ruto. For a while, the camps have been operating behind the scenes, but recent developments have flushed out one camp from the woods.It is crunch time in the ruling party as Election Day approaches. The President and Deputy President have tried their best to camouflage the seething anger beneath the veneer of &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo;.But the time for pretence is over. It is almost a bare-knuckle showdown as the two camps itch to tell each other off. The only thing salvaging the situation is the fear on Ruto&rsquo;s camp to be compared or nicknamed the 'Nusu Mkate Government II'. Since they took power in 2013, the Uhuruto pair has made fun of Raila Odinga for serving in a nusu mkate government that never allowed him to govern as he saw fit. What they don't understand is Raila did not fail. Someone in President Kibaki&rsquo;s camp frustrated his efforts to depict him as ineffective and a complaining non-performer. But Kenyans saw through this charade and called the bluff of those who taunted the Second Liberation maverick.What goes around comes around. The shoe is now on the other foot. It is now someone else's turn to hold the other half of the loaf with a wide smile on his face as his innards churn. The holder of the half loaf is dying to scream and walk out of the troublesome marriage, but he is afraid of what others will say. It is better to be in a bad union just to save face. The players in this moribund sham of a marriage have been averse to complaining about the tight shoe. But you can only stand the blisters and corns for so long. The wind has just received the caution thrown out of the window under the guise of a passing cloud. The dogs from one side are barking, and we know who sent them to disturb the peace. The lone wolves are throwing tantrums over a meeting between the head of state and his mentor retired President Moi. Others in the meeting were Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo. Isn&rsquo;t it sad that the DP and his allies learnt of the meeting and the details of what transpired from the media?While Ruto does not give a damn about his sour relationship with Moi&rsquo;s lastborn son, his boss can bend backwards or even jump as high as Gideon asks just so they will remain each other&rsquo;s shoulder to lean on. The duo have a history spanning 50 years. When their fathers ruled the width and breath of Kenya, Uhuru and Gideon played 'kalongo' on the manicured lawns of State House and the kingly Kabarnet gardens. Their mothers were bosom friends. When Mzee Kenyatta went to be with his ancestors in 1978, Uhuru was a budding teenager. Moi took over as his godfather, a role he still plays perfectly to date. He is the one who groomed Uhuru politically.To these two royal families of Kenya, Ruto is an outsider. They can easily dispense with him. This is exactly what they are planning to do at some point, when the time is right. That is why it was not important to inform him about the meeting. The DP has not spoken about the development, but his body language speaks volumes. His dogs have barked as he held the leash.Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen stopped short of calling the meeting a non-starter. Although Uhuru and Moi agreed that Jubilee will not field a candidate to oppose Gideon, Murkomen (read Ruto) swears that the man the DP picked to give Gideon a run for his money in August is waiting to unseat Moi&rsquo;s son come rain or shine.Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 dream of occupying State House is in a mess, now that Uhuru is singing Gideon&rsquo;s tunes. To add insult to injury, his boss&rsquo;s choice for Nairobi governor, Peter Kenneth, means business about running for president in 2022. On the other side of the fence, Ruto is busy waltzing to Senator Mike Sonko&rsquo;s music.Something must surely give in Jubilee.