Deputy President William Ruto has asked women not to date men who are not registered as voters.The IEBC is expected to register six million Kenyans by the end of the drive on February 14. So far they have registered 1.5 million.Addressing residents in Nyamira county on January 30, Ruto said girls should not allow men to take them out if they do not register."Naona kuna warembo wengi hapa Nyamira...Nyinyi warembo unajua mtu ambaye hana kura asikuambie at ooh unajua... halafu umpatie date," he said in Kiswahili."Mtu kama hana kura akikumbia nipatie date kwanza uliza yeye 'ebu nionyeshe kura'. Kama hana Kura mwaambie apotee."This loosely transaltes to: "I see many beautiful women in Nyamira... Do not let a man not registered as a voter disturb and ask you on a date. Ask them to show you their voters' cards first. If they do not have the cards, tell them to get lost."Amid shouts and jeers, Ruto told the girls not to allow unregistered men near them as they could also be lacking important things."...Kwa sababu mtu ambaye ametembea na hana kura huwezi jua ni nini tena ingine hana..ama namna gani? Nawauliza kila mtu achukue kura," he said.(...This is because you never know what else somebody not listed a voter lacks. I am asking you all to get registered.)Ruto asked Cord leaders to stop issuing threats of violence ahead of the August 8 election. He said the Opposition coalition led by Raila Odinga should stop intimidating Kenyans simply because its leaders have sensed defeat.Cord and Jubilee are trying to register as many people as possible in their battle for the top seat, and members have resorted to all manner of tactics, including sex boycotts.President Uhuru Kenyatta, who will be seeking a second term, will be challenged by a candidate supported by an alliance of opposition parties.Kilifi woman representaive Aisha Jumwa also urged women to reject any advances from men who have not registered as voters.Speaking in Malindi during a registration drive, Jumwa said women should not agree to relationships with men who have not been listed by the IEBC.Read:No sex with men without voter&rsquo;s cards - JumwaMishi Mboko, who is Mombasa woman representative asked women to deny their husbands sex until they register as voters. Mboko said this was the best strategy to shore up opposition votes."Women, this is the strategy you should adopt. It is the best. Deny them sex until they show you their voter's card," she said.In 2009, women activists held a week-long sex strike to get the then President Mwai Kibaki, Raila who was Prime Minister and their allies to reconcile after falling out.