When he lost his parliamentary seat in 1997 and 2002, Boy Juma Boy was forced to retreat to the quiet Vanga village. He bought fishing boats and started fishing across the Kwale coastal strip. This was seen as his would be strategy to recollect himself and plan his future political comeback. He retained his seat in the 1988 and 1992 general elections.While MPs were busy in Parliament and in political meeting, Boy was in the sea, hoping to catch some fish to sustain his family. Used to the trappings of power that came with the title Mheshimiwa, he had been reduced to a nocturnal being out by the night and sleeping during the day. Waa, Ngombeni beach management unit chairman Juma Mwafitina confirmed that Boy used to fish with other fishermen when he lost his seat.&ldquo;We have people who went fishing with him and they can attest to that. He was a humble person and lived closely with the villagers,&rdquo; Mwafitina said.According to his younger brother Issah Juma, Boy was forced to buy fishing boats after he lost the MP seat both in 1997 and 2002. &ldquo;He had people doing the fishing, operated a shop at Vanga and a transport business,&rdquo; he said.Surprisingly, other than being reduced to a fisherman, the outspoken politician was also a herbalist, just like his father Juma Boy, the then Kwale Central MP, who passed it on to him before his death in 1983. The charismatic senator who died aged 67 years was brought up in Vanga in 1950 and named after his grandfather Boy Mwandenyi. At his youthful age, Boy was elected Kwale Central people after father&rsquo;s death, which occurred close to the elections. His father had represented the constituency since 1974. In 2013, he was elected Kwale on the ODM ticket, trouncing Ambassador Chirau Mwakwere by 60,886 against 41,753 votes. Boy stood for what he believed in and did not hide telling the electorate the truth about his mandate, whenever they stood to question why he spent a lot of time in Nairobi after being elected. &ldquo;My work is ensuring that the county government gets enough money so that things can go on according to the law. So far over, Sh16 billion has been allocated to Kwale since 2013,&rdquo; Boy said at a Baraza in Lunga Lunga recently. Msambweni aspiring MP Omar Boga said ODM in Kwale had lost a very powerful politician, intelligent and focused, especially as the country heads to the general election. He represented four constituencies &mdash; Lunga Lunga, Matuga, Kinango and Msambweni.Opposition leader Raila Odinga described Boy as visionary and trusted leader, who was an ODM point man in Coast, and selflessly protected the interests of the party. Boy was known for his oratory skills and his mastery of the Kiwahili language, both in the Senate and political rallies.