Kenya's Shujaa will be seeking to improve when they face England, South Africa and Japan in a tough pool "A" at the Sydney Sevens today at the Allianz Arena.Kenya kick off their campaign with a tough test against England at 2:58 am followed by a match against Wellington champions South Africa at 7:58am before a final match against Japan at 11:51 am. Kenya bagged eight points from Wellington, losing two matches against Argentina (17-12) and England (31-12) before registering a 47-5 win over Papua New Guinea to drop to the bowl where they improved beating Russia (24-5), USA (19-12) and Australia (19-12) to win the Challenge Trophy. Kenya have yet to register a win against England in recent years with the best result being a 19-19 draw in Cape Town in 2015. Kenya met England in Wellington last weekend losing 31-12 in the match where they were victims of their own downfall with unforced errors handing England an easy victory. Kenya will have to keep an eye on on skipper Tom Mitchell, speedstar Dan Norton and combative forward James Rodwell in what will be both an entertaining and physical showdown. Kenya stunned South Africa in Cape Town in 2015 winning 14-12 but since then have not registered a win against the Blitzbokke. They lost 26-19 in Sydney and 14-0 in Singapore and face the likes of playmaker Rosco Speckman, and bruising forwards Chris Dry, Werner Kok and try scoring machine Seabelo Senatla. Shujaa will have to match the intensity and physicality of the South Africans at the contact and breakdown and execute better in defence and attack if they harbour any hope of registering a win against the in form side of the circuit.Skipper Andrew Amonde said the side have polished up their mistakes from last weekend and hope for a win in their opening fixture against England. In Wellington things didn't flow well for the team especially in our first game with Argentina. All the units were not firing. We got our chances but we didn't execute," the captain recalls."Against England, we failed to manage the game. We were in a hurry to score," Amonde admittedKenya are ranked 10th with 25 points after the first three rounds.