Shelter Afrique yesterday said it will go after assets of its defaulters as it seeks to recover about Sh3 billion in bad debt in a turnaround strategy. The Pan-African housing financier is controlled 10.63 per cent by Kenyan taxpayers through the National Treasury. The interim management said the loan recoveries will help bolster about $10 million (Sh1.04 billion) it expects in prepayment and settlements. Among targeted assets is a $2 million (Sh207million) housing project in Cameroon. &ldquo;Our non-performing loan portfolio is currently over 10 per cent. Our target is to reduce this to a single digit thus to about eight per cent by end of 2018,&rdquo; acting managing director Femi Adewole said. &ldquo;None of the properties are in Kenya.&rdquo; This comes as the interim management team implements a number of measures to turn around the financier&rsquo;s fortunes and win back shareholders&rsquo; trust, after a recent audit report by Deloitte exposed malpractices in the running of the company&rsquo;s business. Top managers among them former managing director James Mugerwa came under sharp public scrutiny last year for giving mortgages to individuals with poor credit histories, resulting in a steep rise in the company&rsquo;s non-performing loans. This placed about $6million (Sh621 million) capital at risk. The management had also been accused of presiding over a creative accounting regime that subdued provisions for bad loans, and refused to provide sufficient impairment for $4.1 million (Sh424.4 million) Shelter Afrique had in Chase Bank. In an extraordinary general meeting held in Nairobi on February 1, the 44-member countries gave a green light to the implementation of recommendations in the Deloitte audit report, which include capital restructuring. Adewole said the company is bringing on board a chief financial officer and a change agent to spearhead the restructuring. &ldquo;This has been a tough time but we see it as a blessing in disguise,&rdquo; Adewole told journalists in Nairobi. The financier has embarked on a fund mobilisation drive to strengthen its balance sheet, a move approved by shareholders during the EGM. Last Friday, the company received approval for a $28.2 million (Sh2.92 billion) capital injection from the African Development Bank. The management revealed it expects another $133 million (Sh11.7billion) from shareholders this year, and an additional $300 million (Sh31.1billion) by 2020. &ldquo;We also received approval to open subscription to non-African shareholders. This will, however, be decided after a June meeting in Harare,&rdquo; Adewole said.