Kenya Sevens coach Innocent Simiyu has asked for patience from the rugby fans after an error-riddled performance in the last two legs of the World Series in Wellington and Sydney.Speaking after the team arrival from Sydney yesterday, Simiyu said the team is learning and hopes by the next leg they can minimise on the errors and bag as many points as possible. &ldquo;Our preparations were quite good, leading up to Wellington and Sydney but when it got to game day, we didn&rsquo;t get the results that we wanted. We played well but we were let down by our guard at those critical moments. We committed a lot of errors, an average of five errors on attack and four to six on defence and it really affected our performance especially in the critical games,&rdquo; added Simiyu.Shujaa bagged eight points in Wellington for winning the Challenge Trophy and then collected two in Sydney, where they finished 13th. They have bagged 27 points and are placed 11th on the log. On team selection, Simiyu said he has tried to balance the team by mixing youth and experience. &ldquo;In the first two legs, I brought in a couple of rookies and they did well and for this past two tournaments, I brought the veterans and things didn&rsquo;t work as expected. Going forward, I think I will mix and match to see how things will work out,&rdquo; added Simiyu. Kenya face New Zealand, Argentina and Russia in Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; of the Las Vegas leg and Simiyu termed the pool as tough. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not an easy pool as there are no easy teams left in the series,&rdquo; added Simiyu. Skipper Andrew Amonde was more blunt in his assessment, saying lapses in concentration wasted them. He said the players must be able to play the entire 14 minutes and asked squad to step up. &ldquo;The Sevens game is brutal and if you switch off for a few seconds, the opposition will definitely hurt you. We must learn to bring the intensity for the entire match,&rdquo; he added. The team will have one week break and resume training next week.