Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho yesterday rejected allegations he is a drug dealer and accused Jubilee of trying to destroy him.Joho told a press conference in his office that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are creating a non-existent narrative that he deals in drugs.&ldquo;Act, instead of issuing notices,&rdquo; Joho said.In late August 2015, Kenyatta declared all-out war on drugs but little substantive happened until the campaign season.The President and Deputy President recently have pledged to wipe out drug dealings at the Coast and punish everyone involved, irrespective of their positions. A report presented to Parliament in 2010 by former Security minister George Saitoti named Joho as one of the people involved in the drug business.Yesterday Joho said it is sad Jubilee is using the issue of drugs to get votes from the region.Political analysts say the government&rsquo;s new-found zeal to crush drug lords and drug business at the Coast is a tactic against Joho.&ldquo;They have tried everything before and are still trying but I can tell you we will defeat them again,&rdquo; he said.Joho said it&rsquo;s wrong for Jubilee to keep questioning his academic credentials and for the state to use police to probe his degree. &ldquo;Why do you need the CID to investigate if a degree is fake or real? I know what they did in Kampala (Uganda)and what they are doing now in another university I went to,&rdquo; the governor said.&ldquo;They have recorded statements from the Vice Chancellor and other students. Now they are threatening to shut the university unless they cancel my degree.&rdquo;Mombasa, traditionally an ODM zone, has become a political hotbed and Jubilee has vowed to do everything to ensure Joho is defeated.On Monday Ruto said JP will back businessman Suleiman Shahbal for the governor&rsquo;s job, with Anania Mwaboza as his running mate.Joho is yet to announce his running mate after his deputy Hazel Katana ditched him for Jubilee and declared she will run for Senate.Political realignments in Mombasa since 2013 have zoned the governor&rsquo;s race into battlegrounds, strongholds and hostile fields. The zones are six subcounties of Mvita, Kisauni, Changamwe, Likoni, Nyali and Jomvu.Jubilee is banking on the mouth-watering over 130,000-strong Mijikenda vote bloc for victory.In 2013, Shahbal and Joho played crucial roles in the election of some MPs. This time, Shahbal, according to sources close to him, is well prepared.The banker has put together an elaborate plan and has government support to defeatJoho. Regional coordinator Nelson Marwa has been tasked to ensure that all eligible voters register. Yesterday Shahbal said Joho had failed to deliver on his election pledges. &ldquo;In the last four years, no single deal has been negotiated, the best and only was to bring [recording artist] Chris Brown, which only took away money,&rdquo; Shahbal said.Asked whether he enjoys state machinery, Shahbal said, &ldquo;That is neither here nor there. While I may not openly enjoy state machinery, it&rsquo;s unlikely they will oppose me or go out of their way to harm me.&rdquo;&ldquo;Unlike Joho, who has minimal knowledge about business, Shahbal can turn around this county and get good deals,&rdquo; his close confidant said.With a few weeks to the IEBC deadline of picking a running mate, Joho has said plans are at an advanced stage. Soon the major announcement will be made.Based on the last general election and parliamentary results, the six constituencies have been zoned as battlegrounds.Mvita and Kisauni are considered Joho&rsquo;s strongholds. Each has combined the number of registered voters standing at about 162,000 from the 2013 IEBC figures.