SportPesa All Stars have been offered incentives of Sh1.1 million for the entire team should they vanquish English Premier League side, Hull City at K-COM Stadium on February 27.SportPesa assistant marketing manager in charge of Projects, Liz Muragu while making the announcement at Kasarani camp yesterday said the bonuses will be shared by both the players and the technical bench.Muragu added that the team will share Sh500,000 should they draw with the English outfit while Sh100,000 will be awarded for every goal scored.&ldquo;As a corporate, we have committed to help Kenya qualify for the 2022 World Cup and we are glad the journey to Qatar has just started. This will be the first time a team from Kenya will be traveling to the UK to play an English Premiership side. The team is back in camp for the first time since the final 18 were picked and they will have a few days to gel before their departure,&rdquo; said Muragu.Muragu said SportPesa All Stars will play one build up match against Kariobangi Sharks at Kasarani Stadium on Sunday prior to their departure on Wednesday next week. The final 18 were part of an initial team of 47 which was picked last year following two weeks of talent scouting by visiting Hull City coaches in November.The team being handled by Harambee Star coach Stanley Okumbi returned to the Kasarani training camp on Thursday for the final phase of preparations.Okumbi said he is happy with the progress made so far. &ldquo;All players are excited about this historic match and they are hoping to give their all against Hull,&rdquo; he said.All Stars midfielder, Harun Nyaka, said the historic tour offers team players a platform to showcase the Kenyan talent. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m very happy to be part and parcel of this team. When we returned to camp, the fascination has been all about tackling Hull and we hope to give it our very best,&rdquo; said Nyaka.Prior to playing the much anticipated match, All Stars team will also watch Hull&rsquo;s home game against Burnley on February 25. The team will be without David King&rsquo;atua, who has been replaced by Sammy Ndungu due to the trials he will attend in Sweden. The All Stars team is composed of the likes of James Situma of Tusker, his colleagues Allan Wanga, Humphrey Mieno, David Okello and Osborne Monday.Gor Mahia has two players in Amos Nondi and Harun Shakava on the final list while Leopards&rsquo; have Robinson Kamura and Harun Nyaka.Other SPL players, who will make the squad are Patrick Matasi (Posta), Wesley Onguso (Western Stima), Cliff Kasuti (Ulinzi), David Kingatwa (Bandari) Chris Oruchum (Thika United), Moses Odhiambo (Sofapaka), John Makwata (Ulinzi) and Geoffrey Kataka (Posta). Technical bench will also include team manager Neville Pudo besides the coach.