If you are a Game of Thrones fanatic then you will go googoo - gaagaa over news of an impending visit from one of the cast members.Nairobi will be hosting the popular TV show's King Slayer - real name Nikolaj Coster-Waldau - who is also the UNDP Goodwill Ambassdor.He will be in the country as part of a regional tournament for women supporting the United Nations 17 Global Goals dubbed &lsquo;Global Goals World Cup (GGWCup)&rsquo;, will be held in Nairobi Kenya on 5th March 2017.&shy;The Royal Danish Embassy, Safaricom, Save the Children, UNDP and Eir-Soccer; partners in this tournament will assemble 24 teams of passionate women to experience the sheer joy of playing soccer and the meaningfulness of taking a stand for the world they want.Game of Thrones actor will referee the tournament. The winning team gets a spot in the global final to be held in New York City in September 2017.&ldquo;The Danish government is proudly supporting Global Goals World Cup. The 17 global goals, including their recognition of gender equality, are fundamental for our international engagement. It is indeed worth playing for. In Kenya, the Danish government for many years has supported women empowerment, women&rsquo;s sexual and reproductive health and rights &ndash; and it is still a very important focus. I am happy to invite our partners to the tournament, playing for fun, creating awareness for the millions of women and girls in Kenya for whom the fight for their rights is deadly serious,&rdquo; says Ulla T&oslash;rn&aelig;s, Denmark&rsquo;s Minister for Development Cooperation.&ldquo;The 17 UN global goals for sustainable development are a must win battle for our generation. Winning this battle requires an extraordinary and unified effort from governments, NGOs, private companies and civil societies, but the real key to success is that we &ndash; the people &ndash; get engaged and take action,&rdquo; says Safaricom CEO, Bob Collymore.GGWCup is global movement initiated and executed by the award winning Danish Soccer organization Eir-Soccer. The movement originated in Copenhagen and is rapidly spreading to all continents of the world.&ldquo;Children represent more than half the population, and the future. Efforts towards achieving the SDGs must serve the needs of the most disadvantaged children, and explicitly link the different areas of children's well-being, such as learning and education, health and sanitation, nutrition, and protection from violence,&rdquo; said Save the Children&rsquo;s Kenya Country Director, Duncan Harvey. The tournament uses the power of sport to unite and inspire individuals all over the world to take positive actions. The football matches are played by a different set of rules, awarding points for both scoring goals as well as working for the 17 Global Goals for Sustainable Development.