The new unnerves the old and the established can stifle the upcoming. This tension between the traditional and change, sometimes, makes the practice of innovation hectic. Usually, this struggle is the backdrop on which innovation is born. The old and new are two different mindsets &ndash; hence, the friction. This does not mean that differences can&rsquo;t coexist. New ideas have to tango with the status quo in the innovation process. So how does it work? First, we must understand that the two camps have valid arguments. As most innovators hate to admit, the status quo has its benefits &ndash; that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s hard to let go. The status quo has been tried, tested and can be trusted. It works. Its efficiency cannot be doubted; it&rsquo;s sure. And in these times of greater uncertainty, people have more reasons to hold on to the familiar. Overall, the status quo is a reasonable idea. On the other hand, innovation is essential. It&rsquo;s new. Yes. But it is how humanity moves forward. Change is at the center of life&rsquo;s design and there&rsquo;s nothing we can do about it. Innovation has vital elements that the comfort of the status quo cannot provide. Without change, we can&rsquo;t grow and that is unhealthy. One way to ease this conflict is the idea of adaptation period. Innovators have to appreciate the fact that certain people need some time to embrace the new. This doesn&rsquo;t mean that we sit around and wait for everyone to agree. But it&rsquo;s important to understand the nature of resistance and how to work around it. Otherwise, innovation can stall. Change raises suspicion. Sometimes, people don&rsquo;t know what do to with innovative ideas. They can&rsquo;t imagine letting go of what has worked for them for many years. And no, they will not change for change sake or to look trendy. If they must, then it has to be a process. It&rsquo;s common for innovators to get angry or impatient with the status quo &ndash; with an attitude that borders on disrespect. But since the status quo is the innovator&rsquo;s platform or starting point, innovators have to be skilful at navigation. This conflict can be bitter and diplomacy isn&rsquo;t always the solution; there are times when it&rsquo;s simply the survival of the fittest. It&rsquo;s wise for innovators to understand what they&rsquo;re up against. It&rsquo;s helpful to appreciate the often rough and messy innovation terrain. Everyone is holding on to their position for good reason. You can&rsquo;t ignore that.