Mutahi Ngunyi is worried about KDF's admission of the authenticity of a letter presented by the Opposition on a rigging plot. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga said they had evidence of an audacious plan by Jubilee and top military commanders to use force to subvert next month’s election with a rigged outcome KDF spokesman Joseph Owuoth confirmed the authenticity of documents on operation Dumisha Utulivu. But he noted they were quoted out of context and that the military is apolitical and professional. Read: Jubilee has sent 100 KDF soldiers to Kakamega in vote-rigging plan - Raila Also read: KDF innocent, Raila irresponsible over rigging claims - Kiraithe Ngunyi, a political analyst, said: "Military documents do not leak. And if they leak, military never confirms that they are authentic." He added via Twitter on Saturday: "KDF Spokesman executing a scheme. Worrying." With the election just nine days away, some Twitter users who reacted to Ngunyi's post said Owuoth should be fired. "Imagine a KDF spokesman authenticating secretly marked documents ...it's recklessness of the highest order. This spokesman must be fired from the ob tonight," said Kamau Kinyenje. But Victor Were said "real men respond with facts". "Why should he be fired? Why can't action be taken against the architects of evil plans to bungle our elections? Only fools can't read mischief," he said. Kim Kyallo said Raila's access to highly classified information should worry the ruling Jubilee Party. "It simply says institutions are fed up with the administration." User Jakadawa supported Ngunyi, noting the leaking of highly sensitive and confidential information is wanting. "Oh yes, NASA quoted the right document," he wrote. Other Twitter users said military personnel are human and that documents have been leaked for decades. "The difference this time is people are bold and say it without fear," Rodney Musalia said. Ibrahim Rashid‏ noted: "Charity begins at home. Whether military, police or common citizens,  Kenyans are suffering from bad leadership. Military officials aren't made of stone." Others said Ngunyi should not worry that security measures have been taken to keep Kenya safe if he has no plans to cause violence. Roland Ebole wrote: "Now Jubilee bloggers have the go-ahead to tell us how the KDF spokesman is related to [Siaya Senator James] Orengo, [High Court judge George] Odunga and by inference, to Raila." HMuchinyi said God is with Kenyans and that those behind rigging plots will not succeed. Raila claimed the government is planning to deploy soldiers to install Uhuru Kenyatta as the president if he loses the election. "There are plans to cut power and water in these counties in the pretext of containing cholera," he told a press conference on on Friday. He added: "The attempt by Uhuru to involve some members of our military to interfere with the August 8 election is illegal and amounts to a coup." The Opposition has, on several occasions, accused the President of plotting to rig the poll using army. The Jubilee administration has denied the claims. Last week, NASA released names of 42 police officers he claims have been stationed as agents to cause chaos during elections. Opposition leader said the officers have been picked from units including GSU, Kenya Airport Police Unit, traffic and the dog unit. More on this: Raila issues list of 42 police 'deployed as agents to rig elections' Also read: Rigging plot: Jubilee planning blackout in Mathare, Kibera - Raila