Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana’s performance has dominated campaigns for the county’s top job. On Tuesday, his opponents said his administration performed dismally and asked residents to reject him on August 8. They spoke separately during their campaigns. They are David Masika (New Democrats Party), Bernard Kiilu (Liberal Democratic Party) and Jubilee’s Gideon Ndambuki. But Kibwana says a Controller of Budget report shows Makueni has improved. The aspirants accused Kibwana of doing little to uplift living standards. “It is unfortunate the majority of Makueni residents travel for between five and 10km in search of water, yet the county has allocated money for water projects. They need to tell us how they use the funds,” Masika said. ‘i have experience Kibwana’s main challenger urged residents to take advantage of his vast knowledge and experience in management. “You need to tap my management experience both in the public and private sector. I’m better in management than Kibwana,” Masika told residents at Kathiaka market, Kibwezi West. He said he has helmed the Tana and Athi River Development Agency, the National Bank of Kenya, the Kenya Meat Commission, cement manufacturer Bamburi and Scott University. Kiilu blamed Kibwana for the wrangles between his office and MCAs that rocked the county for two years, saying he should have played a fatherly role. “He [Kibwana] should have taken the responsibility of bringing everyone on board to settle the issues that messed up the devolved zone. It is unfortunate our people are living in abject poverty, while the leaders they elected are fighting for money that is supposed to feed them,” he said. Kiilu, who scoured Kilome subcounty for votes, said he is ready to work with all elected leaders, irrespective of their parties. Ndambuki, who took his campaigns to Mukaa subcounty, said he had the best development record, compared to Kibwana when they were MPs. He said many of Kibwana’s projects were poorly done, while the others are incomplete and he doesn’t deserve another term. rubbishes claims But Kibwana rubbished the claims, saying Makueni has improved. He cited a recent report by the Controller of Budget, saying his administration had delivered, despite the wrangles between the executive and the MCAs. “The latest report by the Controller of Budget clearly shows Makueni has improved most in terms of funds absorption and performance in 2015-16,” he said. Kibwana said Makueni residents enjoy the best healthcare in East Africa.