It seems everything is not well in financing Jubilee Party’s campaigns. Word has it that the party’s parallel campaign teams, including the Mbele Iko Sawa led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, are no longer in action due to a financial crisis. Our mole tells Corridors that the demise of Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery dealt a blow to the Kuria-led Mbele Iko Sawa nationwide campaign caravan, because he used to facilitate the team. It is said Nkaissery always gave the team facilitation money amounting to millions every week to traverse various counties to ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta secures a second term in office. === Residents in Samburu county are angry with the conduct of a police boss in the region and want the no-nonsense acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to intervene. The police boss in the county is known for harassing people at night from 9pm. It is said the officer moves around Maralal town collecting bribes from shops, bars and boasting to locals that he is untouchable. It is also said the Maralal police vehicle moves around from 9pm collecting bribes and officers threaten those who don’t cooperate. To make matters worse, the officers are said to be harassing locals along their tribal lines. Locals, boda boda riders and bar owners are tired of the harassment and are plotting to storm Maralal police station to give the boss a piece of their mind in protest. === Has opposition chief Raila Odinga infiltrated the Jubilee campaign machine? Well, it’s whispered that nothing happens in government and within Jubilee circles that escapes the former Premier. It’s whispered that this is the first election Raila has infiltrated the system. Yesterday the NASA presidential candidate issued a list of 42 people he claims are police and military officers deployed by Jubilee to interfere in the General Election. Raila has made allegations of rigging and roped in even Acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Is there any truth in what Raila is saying? Where did he get the list of police officers allegedly signed by a deputy inspector general of police? === A Jubilee MP committed to ensuring President Uhuru Kenyatta reaps more votes in Western than in 2013 is over-ambitious for the reward from Kenyatta to the region. The firm lawmaker was heard saying that he and Jubilee’s brigades in Western, a NASA stronghold, will not be taken for a ride and get a raw deal if they deliver votes to Jubilee in the August polls. Among coveted positions the lawmaker is keen for Jubilee to reward the region with is Speaker of either Senate or National Assembly.