Lamu residents forced into camps due to insecurity caused by al Shabaab attacks want the government to compensate them for losses of food, income and time. Many are living in displaced persons’ camps in Witu. Speaking at the Kastaka Kairu camp on Thursday, they said their crops and property were destroyed by wild animals and herders, since they were forced to flee. Thus, they could not guard their farms and homes. They want the government to compensate them for their losses and for the time they will have to stay in the camps, until security is restored. Residents said herders have taken advantage of their absence and are grazing their livestock on their farms. There is nothing they can do to stop them, they say. More than 2,000 residents of Maleli, Kakathe, Taa, Mayumbe, Nyongoro, Chumburu, Boramoyo, Pandanguo, Jima and Poromoko villages have fled to camps. They were advised to evacuate the area to allow for Operation Linda Boni. The operation was launched on September 11, 2015, to remove the terrorists who make it their base. From there, they launch attacks in Kenya and retreat. The operation has largely failed and the government has resorted to launching air strikes in Boni Forest. Residents said the state failed to protect them and their property and it is only proper they be compensated. Residents said life will be tough when the operation ends and they return home, since they will not have any food on their farms. “We just want the government to pay for the losses. We have lost food on our farms and in our homes. We know things will never be the same when we go back. Herders have been grazing on our farms,” resident Iha Karisa said. The IDPs also complained life at the camps is tough, since their rations are insufficient. “They give us one kilo of unga and a cup of beans a day, yet we have families. That is not even close to an adequate meal, but we have no option. They should speed up the operation so we can go back home. It is their fault that we are here in the first place. They failed to protect us and now we are here,” resident Harufa Godana said.   