When advocates David Teti and Salem Lorot were still law students, they discovered there was very little textbook material on people living with disability in Kenya. Thisprompted them to write the book Disability: Law &amp; Rights, which was published early this year.Teti and Lorot started writing the book in 2011, and it passed through several publishing houses before it was published by Sparrow Press. They say it is the first comprehensive book in Kenya on disability rights and laws, representing a condensed volume of the broader issues affecting the disabled.The first part of the book attempts to define disability, the types of recognised disabilities and their causes. Different bodily impairments could prevent a person from actively participating in society in terms of accessibility, employment and other opportunities.The book discusses issues of poverty and its impact on disabled people, the role of local and international systems for monitoring the disabled people, and women and children with disabilities. There is also a section on albinism, a condition characterised by much misinformation and stigmatisation.The book also offers guidelines for implementing the laws through &lsquo;habilitation and rehabilitation&rsquo;, reasonable accommodation, access services and public facilities, and non-discrimination.Kenya&rsquo;s disability laws are draw from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). This is a UN treaty that sets out the human rights of disabled persons and has been ratified by most countries in the world. CPRD values stipulate rights such as the inherent human dignity, non-discrimination and access to a range of resources that enable disabled people to have full equality under the law.The book was formally launched in June at a forum called &lsquo;Ideagasm&rsquo; organised by Storymoja publishers. AtIdeagasm, the authors discussed the book and realities of disability in Kenya with a gathering of writers, professionals and disabled people.During the Ideagasm discussion, it came out that implementation of disability laws in Kenya has been very slow. Ongoing challenges for disabled people include access to buildings and public spaces, equal opportunities for education and work, social protection, the right to healthcare, access to justice, penalties for discrimination and more.Disability is useful not only for persons with disabilities but also for family members and care-givers. The two authors wanted this to be a practical guide and not an academic discourse, a book that can be useful for ordinary readers and be used as teaching material. &ldquo;We are humbled to report that we have received positive feedback from those who have read our book,&rdquo; Lorot said.He hopes that more spaces will be filled with voices of the disabled, &ldquo;that the social and attitudinal barriers will be removed, and that in our small ways we can make our environments disability-friendly.&rdquo; Disability is available for purchase from Sparrow Press.