As campaigns for the August 8 general election near the home stretch, women are finding themselves in ‘unfamiliar territory’. They are not only competing against well-oiled male counterparts but fighting a long-held culture that has assigned them roles outside politics. Despite Kenya having a strong and enabling legal framework to support gender equality and give women equal opportunities, they still lag behind on all political fronts. To Suzanne Silantoi, 23, the barrier to succeeding Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko isn’t coming from her competitors Johnson Sakaja (Jubilee) and Sifuna Edwin (ODM), but from the voters she interacts with daily on the campaign trail. “I haven’t encountered much challenge worth mentioning, but what bothers me is the constant question on why I didn’t vie for the woman representative position,” she said. “It seems it has been engraved in many Kenyans’ minds that woman representative is the only seat we (women) can vie for. My candidature and that of other women vying for this (senator) is to overcome such perception and let it be known we are equal to the task of any other seat.” Winnie Kabiru, flying the Wiper ticket, is battling deep-seated patriarchy in her backyard in Meru, where she is seeking the governor’s seat against incumbent Peter Munya and Jubilee’s Kiraitu Murungi. Unlike her well-off competitors, who can mobilise private and government security to offer protection during rallies, Kabiru has been been forced to stick to roadshows and limited door-to-door campaigns to minimise threats and harassment. “People who attend public rallies want money, not to listen to what a candidate has to offer. I remember being asked in one event to leave what I had carried and not say a word. They are used to handouts and those (men) with money are pouring it,” she said. Although she has not encountered any thuggery or physical abuse, she has been forced to part with some money during her roadshows to buy her way out when youths block her caravan. She said she is no longer doing night campaigns, to the advantage of her male counterparts. “They do this partly because I am a woman and partly because the state is using its ground machinery to undermine any candidate vying on a NASA ticket, the opposition,” Kabiru said. “What perturbed me most is that one day I was meeting a group of women and they told me to my face, ‘Mum, you have spoken well, but are you campaigning for your husband?’ The society, both men and women, believes that women can’t lead. It is perceived that we can only be nurses, caregivers, home keepers, and if we venture into politics, then we are doing it for our husbands.” Daisy Amdany, National Women Steering Committee (NWSC) coordinator and the one behind the Ni Mama campaign, said women not supporting each other is in itself a manifestation of inequalities. Sexism that perceives women to be sleeping their way up, she said, remains a challenge holding women back. Other than cultural marginalisation, Amdany said, women suffer from lack of finances to fund their campaigns. She said failure to have an effective legal framework that caps campaign financing has skewed political contests to the disadvantage of women, who suffer from economic exclusion and thus have no disposable income like their male counterparts, who have wider and stronger financial war chests. “The imagery that the media creates on female candidates, for instance profiling the Kirinyaga gubernatorial contest as a cat-fight, is another challenge facing women in politics, as it demeans them and belittles their efforts,” she said. STEREOTYPING Josephine Mong’are, the Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida) chairperson, said although there is a slight improvement in women contesting for various elective seats this year compared to 2013, the society still resists their candidature. “There is stereotyping of women because of social values. They (women) go to politics with cultural and structural biases, disadvantaging them as they start the journey,” she said. Unlike the 2013 election that had no woman contestant in the governors’ race, in this election, there are nine women who have presented themselves for the seat, 21 are going for Senate seats, 102 battling it out for MPs and 440 offering themselves as members of the county assemblies. Though many women tried and made it through the nominations, Regina Opondo of the Constitution and Reform Consortium (Creco) said even if all of them were to be successful in the August 8 election, the two-thirds gender rule will not be met. Chapter Seven Article 81 of the Constitution 2010 provides that no single gender (male/female) should form more than two thirds in terms of representation in any elective bodies. The law that took effect with the last election but its implementation has been frustrated by lack of political goodwill and a male-dominated Parliament, which risks plunging the country into a constitutional crisis. DIVERSITY IN IDEAS “More women in Parliament will lead to diversity in ideas, inclusiveness in negotiations and participation, thus promoting our national values as a country,” Opondo said, noting that in every category, the percentage of party nomination of women is greater than in 2013, a positive trend that can be credited to the support of women candidates within parties’ organisation structure. “Among some women trained by CSOs who decided not to seek nomination, the top three reasons they cited were lack of resources, negotiated democracy and stiff competition. Other factors included violence, harassment and family pressure,” she explained. From the Election Observation Group, where she is the chairperson, Opondo said there has been constant verbal abuse of women, with a 30 per cent prevalence, calling for the need for security, as well looking at women’s participation not just as candidates but also as observers, IEBC staff, political party supporters and voters. Other than violence that characterises the Kenyan electoral process, Amdany said there is also rampant use of demeaning language against women and lack of sincere political party support to women candidates. “A case in point is Bomet governor race candidate Joyce Laboso. She is receiving a lot of support from Jubilee party not because of her candidature but because the party wants to settle political scores with CCM leader Isaac Rutto. Their intention at the end of the day is to win the seat to teach Rutto a lesson, so they can brag that they didn’t only defeat him but they did it with a woman,” Amdany said. She said even though political parties reduced nomination fees, they are not supporting their women candidates with campaign materials, as they do to their male candidates. Amdany said women are also being pushed out from political contests on non-issues and forced to respond on their marital status. She said the Ni Mama campaign is supporting more than 20 women candidates by providing them with materials and a platform to campaign and sell their manifestos in their respective elective region. Mongare said socialisation favours men, who is seen as the head of family, which makes it difficult for men to allow their wives to seek elective positions, for fear of being looked down on in community. “Women themselves don’t participate for fear of being targeted as those with loose morals for hobnobbing with men in the political landscape. Society seems even to have no capacity, which is all a fallacy,” she said. “For those who contest, they are faced with questions on why they aren’t contesting where they married, or their own home, or why they are contesting whereas they are single.” To manoeuvre through the cultural and societal barriers, Mongare called on many women to contest for elective seats and not wait for direct nominations. She also called for education of the public and families on the need for inclusiveness in leadership.