Issuance of mining and prospecting licences to investors will commence soon following the inauguration of the Mineral Rights Board. Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu, rolled out the Mineral Rights Board on Wednesday, paving way for issuance of mining licences as required under the Mining Act 2016. The nine member board will be tasked with advising and giving recommendations to the cabinet secretary on granting, rejection, retention, renewal, suspension, revocation, variation, assignment, trading, tendering or transfer of mineral rights. “The delay in inauguration of the Mineral rights Board was due to circumstances beyond our control. The key enabling regulations had to go through rigorous public participation sessions from stakeholders and Parliament,” Kazungu said. “Parliament only approved these regulations at the end of June before proceeding on recess.” Hundreds of applications have piled up at the ministry since a new law requiring the constitution of the board to review and approve licences came into force in May 2016. Among those affected was Australian mining company Base Titanium which in June 2015, applied for prospecting licence to the south west of its current operations. The firm is currently operating under a special mining lease issued by the ministry in 2004 which is valid for 21 years. “It’s the new licences that cannot be granted right now until the mineral rights board has been constituted,” Base Titanium general manager for external affairs and development Joe Schwarz said when announcing the firms half year results. “To do further exploration beyond the current licence that was issued we do need to have the mineral rights board in place to consider our application.” The MRB will be mandated to declare certain minerals as strategic minerals over seeing termination, postponement or restriction of production in respect to mining licences. It will also determine fees, charges, and royalties payable for a mineral right or mineral as well as advice on areas suitable for small scale and artisanal mining among other duties. “This is something the Ministry has been looking forward to as Industry stakeholders have been impatiently waiting for this day to come to pass so that the piled up expired licenses and new applications can be considered in earnest by the Board,” Kazungu said. The appointed nine-member Mineral Rights Board team comprises of Chairperson appointed by the President Abel  Chumba, Principal Secretary Ministry of Mining Ibrahim Mohamed, Principal Secretary National Treasury Kamau Thugge, Chairman National Land Commission Mohamed Swazuri, Director of Mines/Secretary to the Board Raymond Mutiso as well as Director of Geological Services Ministry of Mining Shadrack Kimomo.