Nicholas Biwott, the Total Man who breathed his last on Tuesday, once sarcastically referred to former Foreign Affairs minister Robert Ouko as &ldquo;Mr President&rdquo; before his gruesome murder.The Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission report drew two theories into the possible murder of Ouko and recommended a probe on Biwott and his political godfather &mdash; retired President Daniel Moi.The report says the killing of Dr Ouko was partly linked to the molasses project in Kisumu and a state visit to the US in 1990.The Washington trip took place between January 29 and February 2, 1990.Ouko was reported missing on February 16, two weeks after the US trip. His badly burnt body was recovered at the foot of Got Alila Hills.A delegation of 84 Kenyans was on an unofficial visit to attend the National Prayer Breakfast with President George H W Bush and other world leaders when differences emerged between Ouko and Biwott.&ldquo;Since it was not considered an official state visit, President Moi was unable to get a private audience with the President of the United States of America. Ouko led a press conference and also met with some human rights organisations and US representatives on Capitol Hill,&rdquo; the report says.Quoting a report by Scotland Yard, the TJRC report said Ouko privately met Bush in the absence of the Kenyan delegation, which made close Moi associates, including Biwott, very jittery.The report says Malacki Oddenyo, the then director of administration for Foreign Affairs, told Ouko&rsquo;s brother Barrack Mbajah the minister had a private meeting with Bush and Moi was aware of it.&ldquo;The meeting apparently caused a great rift between Ouko and Biwott, with Biwott sarcastically referring to Ouko as &lsquo;Mr. President&rsquo; and the two having public arguments in the presence of other delegation members,&rdquo; the TJRC report says.A witness who appeared before TJRC commissioners said Ouko and Biwott almost fought over the remark.&ldquo;Dr Ouko told me that they almost fought. It was bad,&rdquo; the report states.Another unnamed witness, who appeared before TJRC commissioners, said Ouko later successfully prevailed upon James Baker, then US Secretary of State, to allow Moi to meet Bush.But apparently, this is where Ouko&rsquo;s trouble began, as Bush allegedly read the riot act to Moi.&ldquo;Bush finally accepted to meet President Moi. But I wish he did not meet President Moi, because that is where [Dr. Ouko&rsquo;s] life started to disintegrate,&rdquo; the witness said.&ldquo;When President Bush met President Moi, the situation was ugly. It was not good. President Moi then took out his anger on Dr. Ouko, claiming that Dr. Ouko took him there to be ridiculed. Then things started falling apart.&rdquo;Mbajah said after the altercation, Ouko was suspended from official duty, banished to Koru, had his passport confiscated, and was stripped of his official car and private security.Another theory behind the killing was Ouko&rsquo;s involvement in the revitalisation of the molasses project in Kisumu. According to Scotland Yard detectives, there was evidence that Ouko had pieced a dossier regarding corruption in reviving the plant.It is alleged that Biwott and former Vice President George Saitoti were among leaders who opposed the project.