Jubilee chiefs will campaign in Kericho on Saturday  in an attempt to contain NASA's gorwing popularity in South Rift. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto will hold a rally at Kapkatet grounds. Via WhatsApp, Governor Paul Chepkwony urged Kericho and Bomet residents to turn up in large numbers and vote for the two on August 8. Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (Chama Cha Mashinani) became NASA's fifth principal and has been campaigning for Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. Unlike Bomet, Kericho is a Jubilee stronghold but Rutto's influence is said to be a threat. But Jubilee stands a chance as Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter and Senator Aaron Cheruiyot have also been drumming up support for them. Keter, who resigned about three years ago as Senator, was instrumental in the 2013 general election. He ensured URP members in Bomet and Kericho declared support for Uhuru and Ruto at the ground in Bureti sub-county. It is at the same venue that politicians including Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and retired presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki were anointed by Kipsigis elders. The President and DP were also blessed at the grounds before taking office after the last election. “All roads will  leading to Kapkatet historical grounds on Saturday where all JP nominees are expected to converge to declare their final support for re-election of Uhuru and Ruto," Chepkwony said. Raila and Kalonzo will be in Machakos county while Amani's Musalia Mudavadi, who is in charge of presidential campaigns, will tour Vihiga and Kakamega counties. Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula will campaign in Bungoma where he is Senator. During a tour of Nyamira on Friday, the President said the Opposition leader is busy abusing the Jubilee administration instead of selling an agenda that would ensure a poll win. He and the DP tore into Raila and other NASA chiefs on Friday during campaigns in Nyanza and Rift Valley. Mudavadi told their supporters not to leave voting areas, saying this is part of a plan to reduce the number of votes Raila will get. More on this: NASA busy abusing Jubilee instead of selling agenda, says Uhuru Also read: Don't flee voting areas, security will be tight, Mudavadi tells NASA backers 