An analysis of the June Kenya Premier League transfers approved by the Kenya Football Federation reveals a total of 107 players changed clubs in the mid-season window. Sofapaka FC were the busiest club in the transfer window with 17 signings while Thika United FC made the least number of signing(s) with only one player being added to their current squad. The James Nandwa-coached side procured the services of Ugandan goalkeeper Allan Owiny from Ugandan Super League outfit, URA. Of their 17 signings, ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ brought on board a total of four Ugandans led by strikers Umar Kasumba and Feni Ali. There was a total of 15 incoming transfers (from other associations)— 10 from Uganda, two each from Tanzania and Burundi and one from Rwanda. Jean Karekezi from the George Weah Academy in Rwanda was the only Rwandese to move into the KPL in the transfer window as he joined Posta Rangers. Field Cosmas and Hamadi Mbumba were the only Tanzanians recruited during the June period. Mbumba from Toto African Sports in Tanzanian joins Western Stima while his compatriot will be at Bandari from African Lyon. The familiar face of dread locked Congolese striker Demonde Selenge will once again feature in the top tier league as he moved to Zoo Kericho from Shabana. Arguably no foreigner has featured for more teams in the top two divisions of the Kenyan Premier league hierarchy than Selenge, who also played for AFC Leopards. Burundian MacArthur Arakaza, who will be at Kakamega Homeboyz, was the only player from his nations to move to the KPL from SC Villa in Uganda. In summary, 54 transfers were between KPL clubs; 13 players transferred from the second tier National Super League to the KPL and a total of 14 players were acquired from the FKF lower tier leagues. Also, 43 percent of the players (46) moved on free transfers while 33 percent of the transfers (35) involved some sort of payments between the clubs/players. 16 players chose to renew/extend their contracts with their clubs with 9 players moving out on loan to other clubs.