There is still work that needs to be done before we are at that level where we can say that it is all systems go for the August 8 General.There are serious problems with the register of voters that must be critically addressed by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries The Commission must act in an honest, transparent and open manner that builds confidence in the whole process of preparing for the polls. Until the voters&rsquo; register is published to confirm the exact number of eligible voters and questions on the deletion of dead voters answered satisfactorily, we cannot conclude that the country is best prepared.The other question is around the KPMG Report, we can&rsquo;t tell what was done with the voters&rsquo; register unless we access the KPMG final report that contained a number of recommendations which so far are under wraps with the IEBC. The IEBC must make a decision on whether they need to release that report and make it public. Other issues with the IEBC are to do with the technology that is going to be used for transmission of the election results. This technology has not been showcased and explained to stakeholders who would have to be apprised of the manner the results will be relayed from polling stations across the country. There is a general issue about communication; they should have communicated to all stakeholders on the progress of these issues. The IEBC must publish the register immediately and make the crucial document accessible to all voters.The Commission needs to tie all the loose ends to build confidence, including publishing the list of all polling stations that will be used in the August 8 polls. The IEBC should find a way of dealing with the case by NASA objecting to the printing of ballot papers by Al Ghurair.I think the worst thing is that the agencies responsible for security are handling this all-important matter exclusively, without involving other sector players. Other important players cannot be kept in the dark as regards issues pertaining to their own security. You can&rsquo;t have security that does not have some kind of public participation in the whole process. The political parties must continue making demands about the IEBC&rsquo;s transparency and talk to their supporters so that they are able to know what is expected of them when protecting their votes. Kegoro is the Executive Director KHRC