Minneapolis police chief Janee Harteau
resigned on Friday at the request of the city's mayor, who said
that she and the community had lost confidence in Harteau
following the fatal police shooting of an unarmed Australian
woman. The death of Sydney native Justine Damond, 40, from a single
gunshot wound to the abdomen fired through the open window of a
police patrol car, has outraged her family members and the
Australian public. Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull
has called it "shocking" and "inexplicable." Mayor Betsy Hodges said in a written statement that she and
Harteau agreed on Friday that Harteau would step aside. "I've lost confidence in the Chief's ability to lead us
further - and from the many conservations I've had with people
around our city, especially this week, it is clear that she has
lost the confidence of the people of Minneapolis as well,"
Hodges said in the statement. A press conference Hodges called to discuss the personnel
change was interrupted by a group of protesters calling for her
to resign, a witness video posted on YouTube showed. "We don’t want you as our mayor of Minneapolis anymore," a
male protester in the video yelled as Hodges nodded slowly and
tried repeatedly to resume her remarks but was drowned out. "Your leadership has been very ineffective. Your police
department has terrorized us enough," he said. Damond, who was living in Minneapolis and engaged to be
married, had called police about a possible sexual assault in
her neighborhood just before midnight on Saturday. She was shot
as she approached the driver's side of Mohamed Noor's and
Matthew Harrity's patrol car. Harteau's resignation came a day after she told reporters
during her first news conference following Damond's death that
the shooting violated department training and procedures and
that the victim "didn't have to die." "Last Saturday's tragedy, as well as some other recent
incidents, have caused me to engage in deep reflection," she
said in a statement. "Despite the MPD's many accomplishments
under my leadership over these years and my love for the city, I
have to put the communities we serve first."
According to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension,
Harrity told investigators that Damond approached the squad car
immediately after he was startled by a loud noise and that Noor,
who was in the passenger seat, fired his weapon through the open
driver's-side window, striking Damond. Noor has refused to be interviewed by the agency, which is
conducting the investigation. The police department said on Friday that bureau
investigators had interviewed a person who was bicycling in the
area immediately before the shooting and watched as the officers
provided medical assistance to Damond. No further details were
provided. Hodges said Assistant Chief Medaria Arradondo would become
police chief, and the department's website on Friday evening had
been updated to reflect it. Harteau, a 30-year veteran of the department, was the first
woman to lead it and is also openly gay. She was criticised for
the department's handling of the fatal 2015 shooting of
24-year-old black man Jamar Clark, who was unarmed. The shooting of Clark touched off protests in Minneapolis at
a time of fierce national debate over the use of excessive force
by police, especially against black people. Hundreds of people also took to the streets of Minneapolis
to protest Damond's shooting.