SportPesa Premier League resumes this weekend after a week-long break with eight matches set to be played at various venues around the country. The local league action took a break last weekend to pave way for the GOtv round of 16 matches. Ulinzi, who sit at the summit of the table, stand a big chance of consolidating their lead when they welcome league newbies Nzoia Sugar at Afraha Stadium tomorrow. However, the weekend’s highlight will be the match between defending champions Tusker and Posta Rangers at Kinoru Stadium tomorrow. The brewers, who are seeking to topple Ulinzi, sit fourth on the log with 28 points, a point behind their tomorrow’s opponents. George Nsiimbe’s side have collected straight wins from the venue since its opening. Tusker, who were frustrated by a 1-0 defeat to Western Stima in their last outing, will count on the striking triumvirate of Michael Khamati, Noah Wafula and Allan Wanga for goals, which have been scarce for them. Sammy Omollo on the other hand, will not be willing to give easy points to their fellow title contenders and a side he won the league with in 2011. His combative approach has seen his side record narrow wins and concede few goals—a record which has placed them second with 29 points. Today at Nyayo Stadium, the 2009 champions Sofapaka lock horns with Muhoroni Youth who made changes in their technical bench, bringing in experienced Gilbert Selebwa to take over the reins. Batoto Ba Mungu, who bowed out the GOtv Shield at the hands of Kariobangi Sharks, aim to bounce back with a win in a bid to close in on the leaders. At the same venue, AFC Leopards and their new coach Robert Matano will be given a test of his good start when they host Western Stima. Ingwe have in the past struggled to beat Stima although it remains to be seen how they fare after Matano returned them to winning ways after dropping points in eight successive games. The tactician rested a number of his regulars in their midweek GOtv Shield match against Bidco United on Wednesday to reserve them for this weekend’s match. Matano will welcome Vincent Oburu and Victor Majid who were away in Spain for a national duty. Bottom-placed Mathare United travel to Mumias Sports Complex to play Kakamega Homeboyz with Francis Kimanzi a very worried man after managing only two wins in the entire campaign. At Chemelil Sports Complex, Nicholas Muyoti will be out land his first win for Thika United when they take on hosts Chemelil Sugar. Tomorrow, on form Kariobangi Sharks host Zoo Kericho at Nyayo Stadium with William Muluya aspiring to bag the precious three points. The clash will pave way for 15 time champions Gor Mahia, who play Nakumatt FC.