NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga will today take his campaigns to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s home turf, Kiambu. The visit comes just days after Jubilee brigades toured the county to solidify their votes. Kiambu has more than 1.1 million registered voters, second after Nairobi's 2.2 million. The Opposition’s interminable attempts to make inroads in Mt Kenya on Monday got a boost after Raila received 25 MCAs and aspiring MCAs from Kiambu. Raila said NASA aims to send home “the inefficient, incompetent and corrupt Jubilee regime” in the August polls. Read: Raila receives 13 Kiambu defectors ahead of NASA tour The leaders who ditched Jubilee were received at the at NASA’s Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi. "We know the answer to the problem facing Kiambu residents and by extension people of the Central region. If the economy collapses the way it has, it affects everybody. The problem facing Central Kenya is same as for Western, Nyanza, Eastern or Coast," Raila said. The Opposition chief further said NASA is a movement for all Kenyans. The Kiambu delegation was led by NASA campaign coordinator in Mt. Kenya Michael Rubia, his deputy Amos Ochuka and Juja MCA Samuel Gitau. Gitau said they decided to back NASA on grounds that the Jubilee's leadership has been sidelining certain regions in service delivery. "Title deeds have been given in some parts of Central Kenya but Kiambu has not benefited. We ask you (Raila) to come and speak about the title deed issue. We are here as Kiambu MCAs with an assurance of supporting you," Gitau said. "Jubilee know that there is no way they can win other than stealing this election. Everywhere they go people are demanding maize flour which is one of the major problems. We are going to address issues that affect Kiambu residents," Raila said. Raila has been making forays in perceived Jubilee strongholds, a deviation from his earlier style of concentrating on his support bases. More on this: It's 45 million vs 10 million-strong Also read: Why Raila’s “10 million strong” is dangerous and undemocratic The ODM leader insisted that Mt. Kenya residents cannot be left out of the anticipated "peaceful revolution" because they are also suffering in terms of high cost of living under Jubilee administration. He extended an olive branch to Mt. Kenya residents to back his fourth stab at the presidency on grounds he has worked with their leaders such as veteran politician Kenneth Matiba and retired President Mwai Kibaki in the struggle to liberate the country. "The other day I saw the President talking arrogantly on Twitter saying only two communities fought for the liberation of this country. Nothing could be farther from the truth. In second liberation we struggled together and everyone could remember tribulations of Kenneth Matiba, Charles Rubia and yours truly(Raila)," he said. He cited their relentless push for multi-partism in 1992 and dethroning retired President Daniel Arap Moi's KANU regime in 2002. "Time for change has come. Time has come again to rally together as Kenyans in order to send this inefficient, incompetent and corrupt Jubilee regime home to bring a more responsive government," Raila said. NASA flag bearer disclosed that on July 7 they will conduct prayers at Uhuru Park, a day he termed Saba Saba, thereafter hold a rally at Kamukunji Grounds. Raila said Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto's plea to his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka to abandon NASA and join Jubilee during their recent rallies in Ukambani is a clear indicator of conceding defeat. The NASA leader said IEBC chaired by Wafula Chebukati should ensure all electronic voter identification devices (EVIDs) do not fail during the election day for the will of citizens in choosing their leaders to prevail. "EVIDs must work to ensure that dead voters don't turn up to vote. That is a must. The international community should also know that these people (Jubilee) should not be allowed to tamper with the results," he said. He asked IEBC to come clear on "serious issues" being raised on the voters' register especially shocking details of registers voters with IDs between 1 to 9. Also read; Read: Blow to Kabogo as Uhuru pushes for Jubilee six-piece vote in Kiambu