The 2013 and previous presidential elections have made the opposition parties suspicious. They made the incumbent very comfortable and cozy. The 2013 General Election forms the basis of the paranoia we are seeing from NASA. They now believe that the election laws have been amended and the mistakes parliamentarians made the courts have corrected. Therefore, the 2017 election, they believe, will have no form of rigging. NASA long ago formed 47 teams of lawyers &ndash; in every county there is a team of lawyers. Jubilee is trying to catch up now. That is why they have made lawyers their agents in polling stations, because they know the law, so that any malpractice likely to happen or any error they think is a way of rigging, they will rush to court the same day. This is because the courts will be sitting. Remember the courts have said that there can never be any alteration of results once the returning officer announces them &ndash; unless you go to court to petition. The loopholes of rigging have been sealed almost to the last one. Yesterday NASA went to court, suing that the military is being involved and for the courts to determine whether a security officer who mans a polling station is a police officer or an IEBC officer. The law is very clear that the police will be under the direction of the IEBC. The electoral agency will be the one instructing the police what to do. The courts have become very critical in this election and they will control more than 70 per cent of activities in terms of the decisions made on who wins or loses. What NASA is doing is that if their rival Uhuru Kenyatta is declared the winner, you would have to go to the Supreme Court to reverse that decision. It is almost impossible to reverse a decision once it is declared by the IEBC. So, this is why they want to deal with every form of irregularities at the polling station. Jubilee is also realizing that if NASA has a battery of lawyers, they may misinterpret the law to their favour. Remember, returning officers are not lawyers. So the only way to deal with the situation is each political outfit having a lawyer. Therefore, the question is whether the IEBC is also going to hire lawyers as returning officers. This is a very serious and legalistic type of election.Omari is a lawyer