For the last few years there have been challenges in the NGO Coordination Board, the reason being we have not had a substantive board and operational board. It has just been a one-man show, just Fazul Mahamed alone and a few staff members.But we now rejoice because we have a substantive chair. Recently President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed a new chair, Amos Ntimama. Probably, moving forward, we will see things happening because we now have a board which can sit down and deliberate on issues around NGOs.What has been happening in the board in the recent months is that things were not moving well but we are now happy with the new appointment. I believe that the board is now on the right track to sanitise the operations in the industry.It is illegal for an Non-Governmental Organisation to fail to declare open returns. You are supposed to file returns annually and at the same time expected to declare all donors and financiers that have been funding you.Every year, one should declare who has been funding his or her NGO, from which source and how much. You also pay some little fee to the government and also disclose to the Board what you have been doing.Again, failure to file returns would not warrant the Board to deregister an NGO. It has to do wide consultations, including consulting the NGO Council where we sit.What we have been seeing is the Board's CEO just wakes up one day and deregister NGOs. That is not the procedure. He should write to the Council so we take up with individual NGOs on why they are not complying. Maybe they also had challenges.There is no law giving the Board direct authority to deregister an NGO.When the Council proves beyond reasonable doubt a certain NGO is involved in illegal activities, it recommends to the Board to expunge that NGO from the register.On the auditing of the NGO's books of account, the law does not prohibit using one audit firm for a long time. But again, each year you will have a financial policy telling how you handle finances.Also, there must be a good reason for using that particular audit firm for a long period. Hopefully, it should be a good reason.The writer is chairman of the Non-Government Organisations Council of Kenya