 Two weeks ago, this column raised the issue of
how far party manifestos — at the presidential level at least — show concern
with and understanding of the Constitution, and a commitment to implementing
it. One of the major innovations of the 2010
Constitution was devolution. Many people have their reservations about how
devolution has worked out, with particular concerns about devolving corruption.
But surveys have generally shown considerable enthusiasm on the part of
Kenyans. In September last year, an Ipsos poll showed that enthusiasm was
greatest in Nyanza where 86 per cent of people were supportive. Even in the
least supportive areas, sizeable majorities approved: 64 per cent in Central
and 74 per cent in the Rift Valley. It is hardly surprising that all manifestos
profess support for devolution, saying they would strengthen it.  WHAT WAS THE VISION OF DEVOLUTION? The Constitution gives a good idea of what
devolution is about. Recognising diversity and protecting the rights of
minorities and marginalised communities, and thus strengthening national unity,
are prominent among the aims. So are promotion of service delivery, and social
and economic development, and fairness in the sharing of resources. More transparency
in government and more accountability are also important. The methodology is enhanced democracy,
particularly locally, through involving the people in government, and in
decisions that are important to them. And this is done by the creation of
governments at the county level, elected by the people and accountable to them.
Those governments have responsibility for many activities that are central to
people’s daily lives, such as health, local transport, agriculture, markets and
small businesses, local roads, water supply and sanitation. To carry out the
responsibilities they are to have adequate finance—most of which comes from the
resources raised by national government, but they have certain powers to raise
money themselves, and the financing arrangements are to be designed to
encourage this.  WHAT DO THE PARTIES PROPOSE? Powers of counties Schedule Four of the Constitution contains a list
of the powers of counties. In theory, by now counties are exercising all those
powers. Jubilee considers that all functions have been transferred NASA, however, believes that counties are not
yet able to carry out all the functions that were intended to be devolved to
them (though it does not list these). It, therefore, proposes to ensure that
all functions are indeed transferred. In fact, it intends to pass legislation
to clarify the allocation of powers, and also to transfer responsibility for
infrastructure for public primary and secondary school to counties. It does not
clearly explain why. The Council of Governors annual devolution conference in
2016 said, “County planning and development for electricity and gas
reticulation [distribution networks], energy regulation and cultural
activities, for instance public entertainment and public amenities such as libraries,
have not been fully transferred.” NASA also proposes that various existing bodies
that carry out functions that now straddle the powers of both national and
county governments should be reorganised to ensure that they fit with the new
system.  These include the road boards
(Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya Highway Authority), the water boards and
the Regional Development Authorities  (such
as the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority). Again, the devolution
conference last year identified these as institutions carrying out many county
functions. NASA also proposes that the Constitution should
be amended to give counties more of a role in security. Interestingly, Thirdway Alliance says it would
abolish the revamped former Provincial Administration — Ekuru Aukot reviving
the Bomas and CoE proposals changed by the MPs to the current, weak,
requirement to “restructure” it, which has meant mostly re-branding it and its
officers.  Resources for counties Again, Jubilee identifies no issue. It says it
has increased the percentage of national revenue going to counties to 34 per
cent. This is slightly misleading: The Division of Revenue Act passed last
month allocates just over 20 per cent of the 2017-18 money to counties. The 34
per cent Jubilee mentions is of the 2013-14 financial year’s money. NASA, on the other hand, argues that various
strategies have been used to reduce funds to counties, and commits itself to
ensuring that the principle of “funds follow function” is observed. Wisely, it
does not commit itself to a minimum of 45 per cent of national revenue to go to
counties — as it did in the Okoa Kenya campaign in 2015. Thirdway on the other
hand says 50 per cent should be transferred. It is important to be realistic about the
financial needs of the national government. It is responsible for the military and
police, most education, national referral hospitals, Parliament and the
judiciary, railways and airports, major roads, telecommunications, and
elections, of course, among other things. These are not cheap. It is true we
ought to be spending more on some county matters, especially health. As a country
we joined others in Africa to commit to spending 15 per cent of our overall
budget on health, but now we spend more like five per cent. The important issue is to do as NASA says — ensure
that we start with the functions and then ask how much they cost. It is also
important that counties make efforts to raise their own revenues. When county
residents feel counties are spending their money they should be more determined
to hold the county governments accountable — achieving some of the important
objectives of devolution. NASA also promises to change the Constitution
to ensure that counties and communities share benefits from resources. Jubilee
seems satisfied with the law already passed on this (a topic too detailed to go
into here).  Improving intergovernmental
relations – cooperative government NASA identifies as an issue poor relations
between counties and national government, despite the constitutional principle
of “cooperative government”. It promises to organise a conference between levels
of government leading to a “Charter” on cooperative governance.  And it envisages strengthening machinery for
intergovernmental relations, something promised also by Jubilee.  Assisting
and strengthening counties The Constitution requires the national
government to support counties. It is important to remember that counties are
not local governments in the old sense — subject to the whims of the Minister
of Local Government and liable to be sacked or sidelined at any moment. Though
governments are “inter-dependent’ they are also “distinct”. This means they
must be able to make their own decisions — otherwise, how can they be
accountable to those who elected them? It is not clear how far Jubilee’s promises are
designed to strengthen counties. It speaks of a “structured system of
conditional grants”. Though they say this would enable counties to enhance
capacity to raise their own revenues, drive investment to national priority
areas and strengthen their organisational capabilities — valid aims — it is not
clear how. Conditional grants take decision making out of the hands of
counties, weakening rather than strengthening them and their accountability. The Jubilee approach smacks rather of doing
things to or for counties, rather than with them. This is true also of their one-county-one-product
programme intended “to promote development of industries in each county based
on products and resource potential that are unique to each county”. Is this
based on reality? And how does it strengthen devolution? Both main manifestos seem to have little idea
of how the national and county governments are supposed to interact when it
comes to specific programmes. NASA’s extensive plans for agriculture — much of
which is a county function — do not mention county governments once. Jubilee
does not mention counties in connection with plans to “increase access to
sanitation and sewerage by an additional 500,000 households by” — also county
functions. It does say it will “work with county governments” when it comes to establishing
proper waste management systems. It seems there is some way to go before
devolution is fully understood and “internalised”. Old habits die hard, as does
the quest for control over matters that belong elsewhere. Taking initiatives
away from the counties in respect of powers assigned to them is hardly
respecting the objectives of devolution.