President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered fresh adjudication of Mwea ranching scheme&rsquo;s 44,000 acres that were recently controversially allocated to 7,232 landless people in May last year.The land scheme in Mbeere South has been under dispute for decades. The parcel was given out mid-last year and title deeds processed. But some leaders, led by area MP Mutava Musyimi, and some residents have protested that most beneficiaries are outsiders.While on a day-long campaign in Embu county on Thursday, the President said, &ldquo;I am urging the leaders, please let us work together. Work with the local elders who know who occupies which piece of land. We are ready to send adjudication officers so they can come and work together since our interest is service to citizens.&rdquo;He spoke at Kiritiri shopping centre where he commissioned a 100km ring road traversing four constituencies.Uhuru said he does not care which tribe or religion the beneficiaries come from as long as they are genuine beneficiaries and are Kenyan.&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t come all the way from Nairobi to show this land or that belongs to this or that person. You are the people who know each other. I want to come here after three months to personally issue you with title deed,&rdquo; the President said.He said he wants justice and for every claimant to get the portion they deserve.&ldquo;The work should be done accurately and carefully and I don&rsquo;t want to hear the issue being handled along tribal lines. That is nonsense. Where you are is where belong,&rdquo; Uhuru said. The President was with Musyimi, Governor Martin Wambora, Senator Lenny Kivuti, who is running for county boss, and other governor aspirants &mdash; Kithinji Kiragu and Leonard Muriuki. The land was allocated to landless Embu residents drawn from Mbeere and Embu subcounties, but the exercise was rocked with controversy after some residents, led by Musyimi, went to court to block it.They said the allocation was shrouded in secrecy.The Embu government has been insisting that the fate of the Mwea land Scheme, Wachoro, Makima, Karaba and Riakanau adjudication areas is a sealed matter after the 7,232 allocations.Lands executive Josphat Kithumbu has been emphasising that the National Land Commission and the county government reached an agreement on how the land should be divided among the interested parties through an alternative dispute resolution mechanism after withdrawal of cases from the courts.The land is currently a big campaign issue with Musyimi urging residents not to vote for Wambora and Kivuti, blaming them for messing up the land distribution for their own political interest.