Ababu Namwamba has welcomed the Court of Appeal ruling that allowed Al Ghurair to print presidential ballot papers. On Thursday, a five-judge bench reversed a decision that terminated the awarding of the contract to the Dubai-based firm illegal. The judges said the High Court erred in holding public participation a mandatory requirement for direct procurement. Read more: Victory for IEBC as courts rules Al Ghurair to print ballot papers Ababu, who is Budalang'i MP, said NASA's move to halt the printing was illegal and a plot to suspend elections. He regretted that the National Super Alliance, whose presidential candidate is Raila Odinga, is only out to thwart preparations for the August 8 poll. The Labour Party of Kenya leader told IEBC officials to turn their focus on preparations and ignore distractions by the Opposition. Ababu faulted NASA for failing to consider timelines set under the constitution before pursuing the suspension of the Al Ghurair tender. The coalition claimed the electoral agency faulted procurement laws in the award of the tender. Raila alleged President Uhuru Kenyatta met the printer's officials prior to the contract and that he influenced the decision. The company denied the claims saying its officials have never met the President. More on this: Al Ghurair denies links with Uhuru in ballot tender suit Ababu also dismissed the claims saying Raila and his cohort are not ready for the election and fear humiliating defeat by Jubilee. "NASA should not, in any way, try to deny Kenyans their constitutional right to vote through court battles," he warned. He addressed residents at Marenga beach in Port Victoria on Thursday. The MP added the coalition's chiefs are jokers who want to take the public for granted as they fear facing off with the ruling coalition. He said the case was a political gimmick. 'JUBILEE HAS TAKEN OVER' The MP expressed confidence that he will win the election that is three weeks away. Ababu said the Opposition has no space in Busia as Jubilee and Labour parties have taken over. “Jubilee and Labour are the only political parties that are going to get a giant share in Western this time round . NASA has no agenda other than court battles." He added the Oppositin has only been busy fighting the IEBC of selling their policies to the electorate like Jubilee is doing. The MP said NASA's continuous attacks on the electoral agency are geared towards declaring the poll unfair, should they lose, and advocating for a coalition government. Read: Raila creating IEBC tender row to push for 'nusu mkate' government - Uhuru Jubilee MPs have also welcomed the ruling. They are Mary Wambui (Othaya), John Kihagi (Naivasha), Esther Gathogo (Ruiru), Nelson Gaichuhie (Subukia) and Joseph Kiuna (Njoro). Others are Kamande Wambuku (Maragua), Nakuru woman representative Mary Njoki and Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura. The leaders under the UhuRuto Express Team noted the ruling paved the way for the election. They said NASA should stop frustrating IEBC through court cases as the election date is stipulated in the constitution. The team has been mobilising voters to turn up in large numbers on election day and re-elect Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto. They criss-crossed Nyeri county, making stopovers in Mukurwe-ini, Mathira and Kieni constituencies on Thursday. Wambui, Gaichuhie and Kihagi said it is time NASA leaders admitted they have no agenda for the country. They said the five co-principals should also accept defeat should this be the case. The other chiefs are Raila's running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). 