The High Court has dismissed a petition by NASA for elections to be halted should the IEBC not set up a back-up for the electronic system. Presiding Judge George Kimondo ruled on Friday that the commission has a mechanism to salvage the situation in case of any mishap. NASA's advocates James Orengo and Ben Sihanya had argued that the system does not have back-up as reported by the National Assembly. National Assembly last year passed amendments to the Elections Act to allow for manual backup of the register, in the event of the failure of the electronic system. Orengo and Sihanya said they will appeal the ruling. IEBC was represented by lawyers Patrick Lumumba and Paul Nyamodi. The Opposition filed a case to stop the IEBC from using a manual backup system in case technology fails during the elections next month. The commission is using the Kenya Integrated Electoral Management System – a combination of biometric voter registration, the electronic voter identification device and the results transmission system. Jubilee Party, through lawyers Ahmednasir Abdullahi and Tom Macharia, opposed the Opposition's application. Read: NASA wants polls stopped if electronic voter kits fail The ruling comes barely a day after the Court of Appeal quenched an earlier order by the High Court stopping Al Ghurair company from printing presidential ballot papers, citing lack of public participation. The Dubai-based printer and publisher was awarded the contract to print ballot papers for the August 8 general election. Court of Appeal judges Erastus Githinji, Roselyn Nambuye, Visram Alnasir, Jamilla Muhammed and Otieno Odek ruled on Thursday that the Opposition failed to prove Uhuru influenced the award of the tender by the IEBC. "Having considered evidence on record and law, we agree newspaper cuttings produced were hearsay and therefore not admissible. More on ruling: Appeals court to determine Al Ghurair ballot papers tender case on July 20 Also read: We have never met Uhuru, Al Ghurair now claims in affidavit 