National U-20 women&rsquo;s provisional squad of 33 players are scheduled to begin residential training at Machakos this Sunday ahead of July 21 Fifa World Cup preliminary round match away at the Lobatse Sports Complex Stadium in Botswana. Six clubs, which feature in the ongoing women&rsquo;s premier league, have contributed eight players to the side that will be under the tutelage of Ann Aluoch.The eight are midfieder Corazone Aquino (Soccer Queens), defender Wincate Kaari and attacker Rachael Mwema (Thika Queens), attacker Diana Wacera (Mathare United), attacking duo of Tereza Engesha and Foscah Nashivanda (Vihiga Leeds), attacker Majoline Nekesa (Wadadia) and defender Christine Ngoizi (Kayole Starlets)Aquino and Nyakach High School goalkeeper Lilian Awori headline the outfit, having picked the much-needed exposure and experience having been a member of the senior national team &lsquo;Harambee Starlets&rsquo; that featured in the previous International assignments. The two were part of the team that finished second behind eventual winners Tanzania during the last year Cecafa women&rsquo;s championship that was held in Uganda and went ahead to participate in the women Africa Cup of Nations later in year Cameroon. The second leg of the championship is set for the weekend of August 4-6.The winner between Kenya and Botswana will face off with Ethiopia away in the first round in September. Other preliminary clash pit Burundi against Djibouti as Libya cross swords with Sierra Leone. Other members in the provisional squad are&mdash; Goalkeepers: Dinah Tembesi (Wiyeta), Judith Osimbo (Nyakach), Regina Shehe (St John&rsquo;s Kaloleni). Defenders: Lucy Akoth (St. Paul&rsquo;s Abwao), Samimu Nabutwa (St. Paul&rsquo;s Abwao), Leah Cherotich (Wiyeta), Christine Awuor (St Paul&rsquo;s Abwao), Vivian Nasaka (Ibinzo Girls), Maureen Khakasa (Wiyeta),Fridhaus Genge (Kwale); Midfielders: Tina Turner (St. Paul&rsquo;s Abwao), Cynthia Akinyi (Nginda Girls), Teresia Lundu (Nyakach), Dorah Achieng (Olympic High), Sheryl Angach (Olympic High), Amunyolete (Wiyeta Girls), Cynthia Atieno (Maina Wanjigi); Attackers: Sharon Adhiambo (Olympic), Cynthia Shilwatso (Ibinzo), Christine Kitaru (Nginda), Lillian Mmboga (Ibinzo), Mercy Airo (Nyakach), Gentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta), Majoline Nekesa (Wadadia) and Tumaini Waliaula (Naskol).