President Uhuru Kenyatta has once again postponed the opening of the unfinished Sh700 million Othaya Level 4 Hospital. The opening has been postponed five times and at one point the hospital was considered a white elephant project. The 350-bed hospital is still under construction, which has taken more than seven years. The problem has been blamed on delayed payments to contractors, change of contractors because of shoddy work and lengthy tendering processes. The hospital was to be opened in January 2013 by President Mwai Kibaki. It was not completed. In November last year, the government injected Sh300 million more to complete it. This came after Uhuru and DP William Ruto toured the facility and promised that it would be completed by May this year and opened. In March, then-Health PS Nicholas Muraguri toured the Othaya town facility and said it would be opened by end of May. It didn’t happen. Its construction started in 2010 — with a Sh400 million budget. Almost every top official of the Health ministry and members of the parliamentary Health committees have visited the hospital, promising it would be finished soon. Residents’ patience is almost exhausted. When Uhuru returned to Othaya on Tuesday, he told residents the facility will be complete in two months. He promised to open it soon after, saying he will be accompanied by Kibaki. Uhuru urged residents to take advantage of the hospital to improve their lives. It will serve Nyeri and neighbouring counties, including Murang’a and Kirinyaga. Some residents said the delayed opening of the hospital was one reason Othaya MP Mary Wambui lost in the Jubilee Party nominations. They say the legislator failed to ensure the construction ended during her first term in office, despite promises. Gichuki Mugambi, who won in the Jubilee nominations, told residents the hospital will be named after Kibaki, who served as their MP until he retired in 2013. It will now be Mwai Kibaki Hospital. Kibaki initiated its construction. The hospital will have more than 800 staff and a branch of Kenya Medical Training Institute. An extension is also expected to be done for building a mortuary.