Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday toured Tana River and Kilifi counties to promote the ruling Jubilee Party. The DP first took the Jubilee campaigns to Bura in Tana River, where he urged residents to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta to enable him continue with the development agenda. Ruto later flew to Kilifi county, an opposition stronghold. He said the aim is to improve tourism in the region, which had been ignored by previous regimes. Speaking at Kwa Ndomo in Magarini, he said the government has made great strides of developing the region by tarmacking more than 200kms of road. “All these development projects are aimed at improving the living standards of residents and to make Coast the hub of tourism,” he said. Ruto also defended the Jubilee record, saying the government is tarmacking Malindi-Sala Gate, Sabaki-Marafa and Mariakani-Bamba roads to improve the economy of the area. “We want a child born at the Coast to benefit from national resources like other regions. That is why we have constructed Galana Teachers College and Weru Technical Institute,” he said. “There will also be free secondary school education beginning next year.” The DP said the problem of hunger and food shortage in Kilifi should be addressed by the governor. “Your governor should explain how he spent the billions of shillings sent to the county, since agriculture is a devolved function,” he said. Ruto said the Sh7 billion Galana Kulalu Irrigation Scheme will help end hunger in the region by producing 30,000 bags of maize per month. In Chonyi, Ruto gave out Sh3 million for the rehabilitation of Kidutani Primary School. He told residents the government has allocated Sh100 million to upgrade the Dzitsoni Polytechnic to a technical training institute. “After consideration, we have decided to construct a Sh100 million technical training institute so that our youths can get skills and create opportunities for them,” Ruto said. The DP said the government will tarmac 250km of roads in the county. “One of the roads we shall tarmac is the Sabaki-Marafa road. We have lined up a big number of projects in this region. Kilifi county must be developed like the rest of the country,” the DP said. He asked residents to vote Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung’aro as the next governor, adding the government has the region at heart “If you give me Mung’aro and the rest of the Jubilee team, you will see the benefits of the billions of devolved funds,” Ruto said. Mung’aro promised to change the lives of residents for the better if elected governor next month. 