Millions of men and women are plagued by 'bacne' - acne on their backs.The condition is more common among women, affecting more than 50 per cent of women in their 20s compared to 40 per cent of men of the same age, the peak bacne decade.It can be treated with antibiotics or tweaking your diet.But according to Kendall Jenner's dermatologist, you could probably banish the pimples simply by learning how to shower.Christie Kidd says that while it can be caused by hormones, a common cause of bacne is the way we wash our hair and bodies."Most of us, we wash our hair, we condition it, and when our conditioner is sitting, that's when we wash our body,' Kidd says in a new episode of Skin Savvy on Kendall Jenner's website.And then the last we do is rinse out our conditioner."Kidd warns this technique may leave your hair silky and soft, but undoes the cleaning you just did on your back, leaving it covered with oily residue.Women, in particular, are culprits of this tactic, she says. Instead, Kidd recommends this approach:Acne is the most common skin condition in the United States, affecting up to 50 million Americans annually.It can be caused by many factors.Fundamentally, the pimples arise when overactive oil glands produce too much oil, loading up skin cells and plugging up the pores. This causes bacteria on the skin multiply, and the skin reacts with red inflamed lesions.That process can be fueled by a number of factors, including genetics, hormones, periods, stress, medicine, and slow carbs like bread, rice, and pasta. Last year, Kendall opened up on her blog about battling acne in her early teen years, starting in eighth or ninth grade."I had such bad acne when I was younger," she wrote. "It completely ruined my self-esteem. I wouldn&rsquo;t even look at people when I talked to them. I felt like such an outcast; when I spoke, it was with my hand covering my face."Since, she has given Christie Kidd a platform to share skincare tips with her millions of subscribers, including many young women.In a previous post, Kidd advised women with acne or frequent blemishes to stay away from exfoliating scrubs and rotating brushes because they can make acne worse."I never want you washing your face with anything abrasive," she said. "Not a scrub, not a rotating brush, not a washcloth. You want to treat it very delicately and just wash with your hands. Wash really well with your hands."She explained to Seventeen.com that washcloths should also be avoided since they can be abrasive and can also spread bacteria unless you wash them after every use."I often find patients have bought and are using far to many products which makes their skin worse," she added. "Keeping it simple and effective is far better for acne."In the video, she adds: "Then I want you to rinse really well, then pat [your skin] dry with a nice, soft towel."