Despite going down 2-1 against English Premier League side, Everton, Gor Mahia coach Kerr Dylan believes his side staged a good show and they hope to extend the same form to the Kenya Premier League and go all the way to win the title. Dylan said he has been with Gor Mahia for only six days and he had to seek advice from other technical bench officials on who to start the match against Everton. “We started the first half with the same team that played against Bandari in the GOtv shield competition last Sunday but generally, we took the game to them and created chances. However, our dismal performance in the second half was basically due to the introduction of new players. All in all, I was impressed with the character and mentality of the players,” said the tactician. He added: “My reason to introduce new players was to see how they can handle themselves when they get to the field-do they laugh? or put their head down and ask themselves why the coach left them on the bench. But going forward, I am pleased with aspect of the game; the good balance and now I have to ensure Gor play the way they should and ensure they fight to the end for the title.” Kenneth Muguna, who was very impressive during the match, said the friendly match will help them a lot in the league and years to come. “The match has given us confidence to tackle any kind of opposition. We treated our opponents just like any other team and I guess that is the way it should be. Our coach had told us prior to match that we respect our opponents but not to fear them. I am glad we had a good match but now our focus shift to the KPL title,” said Muguna. Gor play Muhoroni Youth in their next match. At the same time, Everton coach Ronald Koeman has admitted that the 15-time Kenya Premier League champions, Gor Mahia, gave them the test they needed ahead of the 2017/2018 season. Koeman said the Green Army should be proud of themselves after Thursday’s display. “Gor gave us a difficult time especially in the first half but lost intensity in the second,” he noted. “Really, I can’t say one or two players impressed me but the whole team was awesome. They gave us what we needed in the pre-season and they scored a good goal. Generally, it was good but difficult game. Gor played a technical game, using the 4-4-2 system that hold us in the first half but dropped in the second half,” said Koeman after guiding his side to a 2-1 win against Gor on Thursday evening at the Tanzania National Stadium in Dar. He added: “Tanzania has been good to us and we have enjoyed our stay here. We have four weeks ahead of the new season and we want to ensure every player’s fitness is good. Of course, I am extremely happy that we have Wayne Rooney’s services. He is a player who know how to win titles and it is fulfilling that we have him in the young team. Really, Everton management did well to sign new players and I don’t see us adding more players but if we have to, then maybe one or two.”