We are a proud nation. And today, there is plenty to be proud of. We are on a journey of tremendous growth. Jubilee&rsquo;s record over the past four-and-a-half years has exceeded even our own expectations.But we want Kenyans to place their confidence in a party that can deliver a brighter tomorrow. Elections are about the future.We must choose a path of progress for our nation. And we can assure you that our work is not yet done: It is only beginning. The manifesto that we have unveiled is not only a forward-thinking agenda for the coming five years but also a plan that will transform our country for generations to come. It is a plan to improve and enrich the lives of all Kenyans &mdash; not select groups or communities, but all citizens of our great country. It is a plan to ensure that no Kenyan is left behind. Under the Jubilee administration, we will move forward together as one united nation.We want Kenyans to understand that our manifesto is not only a vision but also a tangible and concrete plan to effect. The pledges that we make are not empty words. The promises we make are not eye-catching slogans designed to entice you to the ballot box. These are realistic policies that have been carefully designed to make a difference in this country. The transformation that we will deliver is within touching distance.For example, we have already set aside a budget to provide free secondary education. This will be the final piece in the puzzle to give all our children a quality education. We have already made free primary education a reality and, for the first time ever, Jubilee has ensured that every Kenyan with the requisite qualifications has a place at university. If we are given a chance to implement our manifesto, it will signal nothing short of a revolution in education. For the first time in Kenya&rsquo;s history, background and circumstance will not be a barrier to an excellent education. No young person will be left behind.Our pledge to young people goes way beyond education. It&rsquo;s about jobs, jobs and more jobs.The youth is our future and although we have created millions of new jobs in the past four years, the momentum must continue to gather pace. Our manifesto sets out a comprehensive internship and apprenticeship programme. This initiative will give youth real access to the job market. It will provide a critical first step on a meaningful career path. Kenyan businesses are already on board with our plans, eager to help make these promises a reality.While our youth become the engine of our ongoing national growth, I repeat the mantra that no Kenyan will be left behind. Our manifesto makes the solemn pledge that all Kenyans aged 70 and above will receive free health care, providing peace of mind in their golden years. Once again, we have already set aside funds for this purpose. Similarly, all mothers will be offered free healthcare for an initial year &mdash; a crucial safety net for mother and baby. During the past four years, our economy has seen impressive, steady growth, when comparable economies have stagnated. Current foreign investment in Kenya is unprecedented. But we are well aware that the benefits of this success have yet to be felt by some Kenyans. Let us assure them &ndash; you will not be left behind. By 2022, every Kenyan will have access to electricity. We are already well on the way. Under Jubilee, more people have been connected to the national grid than since Independence. We will continue to change the face of our transport system, extending the SGR and paving yet more roads. This will not only bring our country closer together, but it will provide better access to goods and place food on the table more quickly and efficiently.We pledge not only to boost food access at the point of delivery, but the point of production too. Irrigation will continue to be improved, giving farmers an important helping hand as the crucial backbone of our food chain. To this end, 60 large-scale dams are already at various stages of construction. And herein lies the key to our manifesto. What we pledge to you today is already happening. Whether it is education, modern railways, healthcare, access to water and so many other facets of our lives, the change we promise to deliver is underway. We must now continue the journey by moving forward together.Our manifesto is a blueprint for Kenya&rsquo;s future &mdash; an ambitious future. For this we make no apology. It is a future in which every Kenyan will prosper. It is a future in which we continue to grow on the world stage. But it is not a dream: It is well within our grasp. We can realise this vision together. Our manifesto is our pledge and, with your help, we can transform Kenya.Elachi is a nominated senator