Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto rarely appears in nationwide NASA campaigns, but has strongly concentrated on the Rift Valley. He mostly appears in Rift Valley rallies. Previous polls by Ipsos, Infotrak and TIFA show that NASA is making significant inroads in Rift Valley. Corridors wonders whether his role after joining NASA was simply “get us Rift Valley votes we will get ourselves other votes from across the country”. === A meeting of political parties convened by the IEBC to discuss electoral security turned stormy after a Jubilee representative clashed with NASA representatives over the opposition's Adopt-a-Polling Station plan. The Jubilee rep, a former MCA aspirant in Siaya county in the by-election conducted in 2015, who was seconded by party secretary general Raphael Tuju to the meeting, almost exchanged blows with representatives from the NASA secretariat. The youthful Jubilee official argued that the NASA plan to adopt polling stations could lead to vote stuffing in its strongholds should the electronic systems fail. The opposition stalwarts responded furiously and instead accused Jubilee of being the chief suspect of electoral fraud. It took the intervention of a senior IEBC official to restore calm at the meeting. === A senior operative at the SRC office recently told her colleagues the country survive without a good number of the civil top servants who are now deployed to the grassroots to campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection. She said despite the officers’ being busy campaigning at the grassroots, government activities have not been affected. She said this was the right time to identify people to be retrenched as a matter of priority. === Did Deputy President William Ruto say on a local radio station that the government will not increase the salaries of the police? The word going round within police circles is that he said the government will not increase their salary because it has acquired 300,000 vehicles for security operations. Corridors could not verify if this number of vehicles was correct and if the statement was true, but it has really demoralised the cops. On one discussion platform, a commenter noted, “Our only remaining weapon is voting them out if we get an opportunity to vote so that we can see a change too.” === Is someone out to dampen the spirit of our country's security officers? Corridors has learnt that police officers deployed to man the IAAF World U-18 Championships at Kasarani Stadium are yet to get their special allowances – two weeks later.