Calls for a peaceful election remain a pet agenda yet, the institutions mandated to lead us through to a credible outcome have instead focussed on media campaigns. This is worrying. Electoral violence is not an event in itself but usually a result of structural and institutional push factors that are often aggravated by incumbent regimes through omission and commission. If the party primaries and intolerance we saw recently are anything to go by, then the country should be prepared for an aftermath worse than what has been witnessed before. The Kenyan political architecture of winner-takes-all and literally ‘eats meat’ as others salivate has not helped. Political violence is not any different from terrorism, and there is no shortage of actions that are clearly preparing the country for a contested presidential outcome. Political violence and extremism are not phenomena confined to Kenya or to Africa by extension. The Australian government defines it as a willingness to use violence or support the use of violence by others to promote a political ideology or religious goal. Consequently, political violence can be seen as a recourse when all else seems to be against what the people perceive as just. Some defence submissions through lawyers during the tail-end proceedings of the Kenyan cases at the International Criminal Court held that political violence could have been sparked by impunity and mistrust of institutions and was not necessarily planned. If the argument that the 2007-08 violence haphazardly sparked without any formal planning holds water, then the same could be awaiting the country come August this year if the institutions charged with electoral management do not live up to the task devoid of political manoeuvres. Most scary is the involvement of top presidential contenders in reckless statements during this period. Incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta is out of order making a declaration that he will relinquish power should he lose. The Constitution explicitly spells out the succession process, and any presumption to the contrary is only farcical. Piling pressure on other presidential contenders to proclaim that they will accept defeat only fuels the suspicions that the government could be keen on an unfair process. The implausible inspection of the voter register by a firm, whose experience in such is unknown and a non-participatory ballot printing tender award has not helped things either. When the electoral management agency seems reluctant to create public participation and feedback mechanisms, and only responds to political statements, while advocating patience from the public, then clearly the gods are unsettled and we have every reason to be anxious. It is insensitive to imagine that an environment satiated with socio–economic marginalisation, poor governance, corruption, palpable looting of public resources and human rights abuses iced in police brutality can be short of participants in violent extremism. The food emergency and youth unemployment have not helped and no one would envy incumbency in this state of affairs. It is, therefore, understandable when the top leadership overreacts once in a while, when citizens do not seem to acknowledge one or two achievements here and there. As Albert Einstein rightly predicated, peace is not merely absence of war but the presence of justice, of law, of order — that is government. As the Election Day approaches, it is not late for the political players and relevant institutions, including the IEBC and the judiciary, to start doing things right. Political rallies that do not contribute to peace through perceived and real objectivity will bears no fruits. Disheartening is the lacklustre attitude religious institutions and civil society have about pushing for a credible electoral process. The international community, through the European Union Observation Mission, has rightly pointed to possibilities of a sham election, and this cannot be helpful. The Interior ministry keeps on boasting of its preparedness to deal with any violence, and this only confirms government’s clemency for electoral fraud, and that the people must not question the outcome. A persuasion driven by intimidation to cleanse a plan towards a botched process cannot be allowed in the name of preaching peace. Also, inauspicious is the reality that under these circumstances, the government still has a constitutional mandate to protect people’s lives and property, and coordinate all agencies to ensure a credible election. The government bears the greatest responsibility for a credible and peaceful election. It is a requisite that a sitting president not only focuses on his reelection but also adheres to the Constitution that he swore to abide by and protect. This is a tough call, especially in Africa, where power and economic survival are inseparable, and probably a question that Kenyans need to deal with at some point. The implementation of Chapter 6 of the Constitution that articulates leadership and integrity has not been effectively managed by agencies concerned and this only aggravates the situation. Considering the dominance and economic opportunities that the presidency presents, maybe it is time Kenyans thought of providing for a transition period where a sitting president still considering reelection relinquishes power and an objective body takes over for a specified period. This could reduce rampant political interference with ‘independent’ institutions that manage elections. It is comprehensible that these ‘independent’ institutions are only independent when there is political will. History confirms that electoral management agencies in this country hardly resist any overtures to subvert the will of the people. The drafters of our Constitution must have assumed that everyone ascending to the top office would be sensitive to the letter and the spirit of the supreme law, and that wisdom would prevail. A fallacy. With the antecedents, we wonder at what became of the presidency as the symbol of national unity.   