Security operations in Laikipia and parts of Baringo will not be suspended during the election period, Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo has said. Residents will be allowed to go out and vote freely on August 8, he said. “We are still going on with the operation and our aim is to ensure full security is restored the affected areas,” Musiambo told the Star yesterday.  Dangerous and disturbed The operation in Baringo will be carried out in 19 areas gazetted as dangerous and disturbed. Some Rift Valley leaders want the government to suspend security operation in parts Kerio Valley to allow residents vote freely. West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin and Kapenguria MP Samwel Moroto on Sunday said the operation would scare away voters and discourage free movement to polling stations. The two said the region is largely a Jubilee zone and unless the operation is lifted the party could be the main loser. “We want people to turn up in large numbers and vote but in Kerio Valley they will not come out because of the ongoing security operations,” Moroto said. But Musiambo said there was no security operation in West Pokot, Turkana and parts of Elgeyo Marakwet. “We don’t have any operation going on in those areas. What we have is tight security,” he said. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos yesterday said the crackdown on criminals has helped to improve the situation in Kerio Valley, but residents should be allowed to vote freely. “We want both tight security and many people to turn out and vote,” he said. Tolgos is running for reelection on the Jubilee Party ticket.  Tight security More than 300 polling stations in Kerio Valley will be under tight security to ensure bandits do not disrupt voting. Security teams and officials from the IEBC have separately visited Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, West Pokot and Turkana counties to assess the situation as part of poll preparations. NGOs’ Council chairman Stephen Cheboi said security in the region has improved but residents should be allowed to vote without intimidation. “We urge the government and the IEBC to ensure that the tight security is maintained before, during and after the election,” he told the Star on the phone yesterday. Musiambo said bandit attacks have declined drastically since the crackdown began in March. “We are working with communities, leaders and other relevant groups to maintain tight security in all areas,” he said. More than 2,000 security personnel will man the polls in Kerio Valley. They include more than 500 police reservists. IEBC returning officers in counties with banditry problems have been updating the commission on the security situation. This so they can map out areas that will require additional security.