Why, after what Kenya has been through, are we fixated on politics based on such division and hatred. We seem bent on self-sabotage, allowing ridiculous rhetoric to become fodder for Western media, which thrive on portraying Africa around famine, corruption and conflict. Nearly every day there is one issue or another that causes confrontation and raises the emotional temperature. “Our people” from either party will then say things that may offer comfort to “their people” but do little to encourage unity or address the real issues. With fierce, and sometimes blind, loyalty, no one dares break ranks. Instead, the fear of an attack on the political bubble only causes positions to harden and the language to get more extreme. Important issues such as terrorism or cholera are politicised and no solutions are offered. This comforts only the hard-core supporters of each party, who are often aligned purely along tribal lines, and pushes the country deeper into dysfunction. The messaging, which revolves around what the political leaders won’t do as opposed to offering solutions to joblessness, reducing corruption, increasing security and improving the health system, is divisive in its very nature. Sadly, we the ordinary Kenyans get sucked into it. We start repeating and reinforcing the messages, creating a vicious cycle. We pass on rumours, even when we don’t have the facts, and take part in conversations on how terrible the election outcome will be, depending on which part of the divide we sit. We retweet messages that perpetuate fear and panic, yet seldom verify the origin of the message. Can we all take a deep breath and realise that no progress is made to develop the country when we collaborate with those determined to cause doubt on the election outcome? No politician, moreover, will dare reach out to the other side to commend them on what might be a sensible approach towards a particular issue (because each party does have good ideas and good ideas sometimes come from a political party). Why don’t we give credit where it’s due? Maturity dictates that we acknowledge possible solutions, even if we didn’t think of them ourselves. As the recent polls show, whoever wins the presidency won’t win all of Kenya. Almost half of the country won’t have voted for him. What the incoming President must do is embrace a more integrated vision and invite all politicians to the table to discuss a national vision within the democracy of parties. The objective must be about making the compromises necessary to uplift the lives of Kenyans, rather than projecting them inward purely for the sake of blind loyalty. The incoming President must be prepared to let his greatest fans down, if need be. National leadership must be about something bigger than one’s own ego, one’s own people, or the survival of one’s political party with the sole purpose of winning the next election. A national vision will require politicians to move out of their comfort zones to ensure we break out of this corrosive political cycle. It will require them to leave the confrontational politics and focus on the important issues and substantive solutions. That notwithstanding, as a person whose sole job in life is to shape conversations, it is my view we cannot leave our country’s conversations to the politicians to shape. No matter how deep the divide, we the regular citizens must maintain a modest unity in our ability to disagree. This requires enough of us to believe it and to act in good faith toward maintaining it; insisting “he’s not my President” and excoriating anyone willing to work for whoever wins puts us on a path toward the wrong kind of failure. People — and voters — are more complex than labels. We are more than our tribe. We must speak, write and tweet with care, depth and nuance. We must avoid the lazy thinking that encourages stereotyping. We might also try to listen to what “those people” have to say. Along the way, we might come to see that “those people” are “our people,” too. And that democracy is far better than the alternative. I believe Kenyans have the power and the ideas to ensure no community is marginalised. We can all work on a shared vision of democracy that provides a voice to each and every Kenyan.