Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has been installed as Kipsigis community spokesman despite conflict about his qualification.Kipsigis leaders had been divided over a plan to crown the county chief and NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga as elders.The Myoot Kipsigis council of elders felt the move would divide the Kalenjin community and wanted it shelved.Read: Kipsigis elders split over plan to crown Raila, Rutto at NASA Bomet rallyBut the CCM leader was installed on Saturday at a colourful ceremony at Bomet Green Stadium, with Raila and other NASA principals attended.He became the first Kipsigis leader to be given with the title, complete with traditional regalia and other leadership items.The ceremony was presided over by the Kipsigis Chapter of the Myoot council and Kipsigis Clans Association. Hundreds of Bomet residents witnessed it.Rutto, who recently became NASA's fifth principal, hit at the government over free education minutes after his installation.Jubilee has promised free secondary education by January 2018 while NASA has promised it by September. Rutto said education should have been free at the beginning of the year had the government truly been keen on introducing it."...ati wanasema wataleta free schooling wakirudi State House...na wanasema itaanza January 2018. Yetu ya NASA inaanza September," Rutto said."Waturudishie pesa zetu zenye tulilipa kwa M-Pesa. Walete sahi...wametudangaya sana." This translates to: "They say they will introduce free education when they return to State House and that this will be from January 2018. Our plan will begin in September. They should return the money we sent them by M-Pesa. They have lied too much."Rutto further accused Jubilee of sidelining Bomet residents but said NASA will eradicate tea farmers' problems."Hapa Bomet tuna shida sana. Jubilee wametembea hapa na wamesahau wakulima wa chai na maziwa. Serikali ya NASA ikichukua uongozi, tutashughulikia wakulima," he said.(There are so many problems in Bomet. Jubilee has toured but has forgotten tea farmers and milk traders. When NASA takes over, we will solve their problems."On June 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta told NASA chief, led by flag bearer Raila Odinga, to stop misleading Kenyans on their September goal for free education.He said implementation of government projects requires proper planning, not mere politicking.&ldquo;Leaders should not just wake up in the morning and tell Kenyans they will do this and that within a given period after they win elections, without thinking or planning how to go about such issues,&rdquo; Uhuru said.&ldquo;Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga knows very well that when a policy is made, it requires planning. He should, therefore, not mislead Kenyans on implementation of projects just to attain his selfish ends.&rdquo;More on this: Free high school education can&rsquo;t happen in 100 days, says Uhuru