National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale has told the IEBC to submit the KPMG audit report to Parliament so that it can be discussed.Slightly above 5.2 million new voters have been confirmed by the electoral agency to be eligible to vote in the August election. However, the IEBC says it submitted the report to Parliament as per the law on June 9.The statistics from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission come after the clean-up of the voter register as recommended by KPMG. NASA has described the audit of the register by the audit firm as flawed and demanded that it be done afresh. The opposition alliance says voters who died as far back as 2013 are still in the voter register. NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission needs to be serious about the voters register, noting that his late son Fidel&rsquo;s name is still there.After KPMG conducted an audit, the number of dead voters was placed at more than a million.IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said 88,602 were removed, bringing the total number of registered voters to 19,611,423. Raila said Kenyans have confirmed the existence of dead family members, some of whom passed away 15-20 years ago, in the voter register.But addressing the press in his Garissa Township constituency yesterday, Duale said Jubilee is confident that the IEBC will deliver a credible election.&ldquo;We have become used to NASA&rsquo;s lamentations on virtually anything, and this is one of them. It is high time they stopped all the sideshows and left institutional agencies to do their job,&rdquo; Duale said.He added, &ldquo;We, however, are asking the IEBC to submit the report, more so to the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, and if there is need for the House to discuss that audit report.&rdquo;Duale termed as political rejects those who have defected from Jubilee to NASA. &ldquo;The story of receiving defectors, scavengers and political rejects will not help NASA. As Jubilee we are going to the people to preach peace and ask the IEBC to conduct free, fair and credible elections. We already know our numbers,&rdquo; Duale said.