Activists and journalists in
newly democratic Myanmar continue to be followed and questioned
by state surveillance agents, a UN envoy said on Friday, at
the conclusion of a visit she said was beset by official
snooping and access restrictions. Aung San Suu Kyi came to power last year after a landslide
in the landmark 2015 elections. She does not oversee the police or the military, which ruled
the country for decades and retains its powerful position under
a constitution drafted by the former junta. Special Rapporteur Yanghee Lee told a news conference at the
conclusion of her 12-day visit that she faced "increasing
restrictions" on her access. Lee said the government, citing security concerns, had
prevented her from visiting parts of the northeast where the
military is accused of abuses against civilians in its conflict
with ethnic rebels. She was also not allowed to visit three journalists detained
last month by the army and charged with contacting a rebel
group, despite the site of their detention being a popular
tourist spot, the human rights envoy said. Myanmar regularly blocks monitors and journalists from
travelling to areas near the conflicts citing concerns over
safety. Security officials say monitoring prominent people is a
normal part of their work. Lee said it was "unacceptable" that people meeting her were
watched and even followed by agents she suspected to be from the
police Special Branch that once stalked political opponents
during almost half a century of dictatorship. Birth certificates "I have to say I am disappointed to see the tactics applied
by the previous government still being used," she said. "In the previous times, human rights defenders, journalists
and civilians were followed, monitored and surveyed and
questioned. That's still going on," Lee added. Suu Kyi's office did not directly address the issues of
access or surveillance, but said it was "disappointed" with
Lee's end of mission statement, which "contains many sweeping
allegations and a number of factual errors". "We had hoped that the Special Rapporteur's statement would
reflect the difficulties of resolving the problems that are a
legacy of decades of internal conflict, isolation and
underdevelopment," it said in a statement released early on
Saturday. Myanmar is also refusing entry to a separate UN
fact-finding mission appointed by the Human Rights Council in
Geneva to look into allegations of abuses by the security
forces. The panel has a special focus on the western state of
Rakhine, where the army led an operation late last year in
response to attacks by militants caused an estimated 75,000
people Rohingya Muslims flee across the border to Bangladesh. About 1.1 million Rohingya - who many in Myanmar view as
illegal immigrants from Bangladesh - live are denied citizenship
and face restrictions on their movements in Rakhine. Lee visited the state and credited Myanmar for attempts to
implement some recommendations made in March by a advisory panel
led by former UN chief Kofi Annan, including the issuing of
birth certificates to 20,000 children not previously registered. Buddhist officials in Muslim-majority areas have in the past
refused to draw up such documents for Rohingya newborns. However, Lee said: "The general situation for the Rohingya
has hardly improved since my last visit in January and has
become further complicated in the north of Rakhine." Continued alleged abuses by security forces and killings by
suspected Rohingya militants of those perceived to be working
with the government left many Rohingya "terrified and often
caught between violence on both sides", she said.