Wrangles in Bungoma NASA parties intensified on Monday after Ford Kenya demanded that all ODM candidates in the county step down. Secretary general Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren MP) asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to prevail upon the candidates to back those vying on Ford-K whose leader is Senator Moses Wetang'ula. Raila, Wetang'ula, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) joined forces to form a stronger Opposition coalition. Eseli said the county is perceived to be a Ford Kenya turf and therefore "ODM candidates should not disturb them." He said Ford-K sacrificed their presidential bid to support Raila so they no longer need ODM candidates in the area. "Our party leader sacrificed his presidential ambitions. We don't want ODM candidates to challenge us," he told a rally in the constituency. He added competition between the two parties is not healthy for NASA's bid to remove Jubilee from power, both in the county and at national level. When NASA held campaigns in the area two weeks ago, Raila prevailed upon ODM Bungoma Senator aspirant Bonny Nyongesa to step down for Wetang'ula. "I want the ODM candidate for the senate seat to step aside and support Wetang'ula because we want him to get as many votes as possible," he said at Posta grounds. But Nyongesa, a journalist, defied the call arguing only the electorate can decide who will serve them as senator for the next five years. More on this: NASA principal Wetang'ula will vie for re-election as Bungoma Senator - Ford Kenya Observers say the wrangles will cost NASA critical seats not only in Bungoma but also in Trans Nzoia county. Eseli urged Bungoma residents to vote six-piece in favour of Ford Kenya so the party remains the dominant in the region. Speaking separately, Wetang’ula accused ODM candidates in the county of being Jubilee sympathisers. "We know they are being funded by Deputy President William Ruto to destabilise NASA. Don’t vote for any of them in Bungoma." The orange party has also fielded Alfred Khangati who wants to unseat Governor Kenneth Lusaka of Jubilee Party. Read: 2 refuse to step down for Weta in Senate race Also read: Stay away from our turf, ODM told  