NASA has for the second time cancelled its campaign rallies in Eldoret and other North Rift parts for the burials of prominent Kenyan leaders. The rallies that had been scheduled for Friday and Sunday in Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet were cancelled on Thursday. New dates will be released next week. Kipkorir Menjo, one of NASA regional coordinators, said the rallies were put off to allow the burials of veteran politician Nicholas Biwott and former TJRC chairman Bethuel Kiplagat. “The two were prominent people in this region. There is no way we would have mobilised people to attend rallies alongside the burials." Biwott was buried on Thursday in Elgeyo Marakwet whle Kiplagat will be buried on Saturday in Mosoriot, Nandi county. Read: Total Man buried, eulogised as a patriot and dependable leader NASA was to have its main rally in Eldoret on Sunday. “We are now coordinating with the national secretariat in Nairobi so they can give us a fresh campaign programme for the region, most probably in the next one week,” Menjo said. Seven former MPs and a sitting lawmaker in the Rift Valley, who were Deputy President William Ruto’s allies-turned foes, ditched Jubilee Party on Monday. They include Stephen Tarus, David Koech, Jesse Maizs, Francis Mutwol, Joseph Misoi and John Cheruiyot. Others are David Sudi, Major (rtd) Augustine Cheruiyot and Chesumei MP Elijah Lagat. Tarus, also NASA’s presidential campaign coordinator in the region, said they have set up a secretariat and will organise major rallies once the programme is released. They said the perception that Rift Valley is a Jubilee stronghold is misguided as NASA has made inroads there. “Our people do not want to make noise about it but the truth is that large numbers of Kalenjins are in NASA,” Maisz said. He noted that much like other members of the public, Kalenjins are suffering because of bad governance by Jubilee. “Unlike in the past, when our people could easily buy new tractors because a majority of us are farmers, some of us now put on clothes full of patches. This is because of the poverty brought about by Jubilee."