Sheil Kotecha thumped Faisal Alrebdi of Saudi Arabia 6-2,7-5 to win his second round match in the ongoing the ITF Nairobi Junior Open at Nairobi Club.This was the second meeting after Kotecha had bundled out the Saudi national at quarter-final level in the first leg.However, the home boy had to labour for the wins in either sets as his opponent seemed to have learnt a few tricks since their first leg meeting. Individual brilliance showcased by Kotecha saw him take an early lead in the first five games before Alrebdi pulled two back to trail by three games.Things were, however, hot for the visiting Saudi in the last game of the set as big serves exalted by Kotecha saw him scatter returns and subsequently lost the set.A more rejuvenated Alrebdi returned for the second set, pulling back for every game won by Kotecha hence making the set unpredictable.However, the first seed had the final laugh as he hit two unanswered games after five games to settle for a hard-earned win. He said: &ldquo;It was a competitive match as he seemed to have learnt from the previous meeting in the first leg. I won courtesy of my experience in playing in different levels.&rdquo;In other boys&rsquo; matches, Pablo Schelcher of Spain saw off Mwendwa Mutuku of Kenya 6-2, 6-0 to win his second round as Arjun Mariyappa of United States beat India&rsquo;s Rudraksha Mitra 6-4,6-4.Max Stehling of Canada eased past Ammar Fekry of Egypt 6-2,4-6,6-2 to win his second round. Burundsi&rsquo;s Abdoul Kabura smacked Paul Wamba of Cameroon 6-1,6-4 as Zaid Ahmed over power Dennis Moses of Zimbabwe 6-2, 6-4. Beaten first leg finalist Abdullah Barwani of Oman saw off Nishad Kalluri of India 7-6,6-4.In the girls category, Kenyan Angella Okutoyi subdued Noor Omara of Egypt 7-6 (1), 5-7, 6-1 to win her second leg. Okutoyi had to put up an outstanding display in the final set to win as the Egyptian had pulled a set back, sending the match in the determining set. The lanky Egyptian tired in the final set gifting the home girl a 6-1 win. In an interview, she said: &ldquo;I am happy for the win after a relentless fight in the opening two sets. I had to be clinical game in the final set as she seemed to have run out of gas.&rdquo;Another Kenyan girl Sneha Kotecha will launch her campaign today against Portela Caitlyn of Australia.