Italian Fannone Maccoppi and former Simba coach Dylan Kerr of Scotland are the last two candidates who are being considered to head the technical bench of SportPesa Premier League leaders Gor Mahia.Since the then coach Ze Maria surprisingly left his post over two weeks ago, assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno has been in charge of the team but the club hierarchy it seems want to have a substantive head coach in place to steer the club in the second half of the campaign.&ldquo;We have settled on Maccoppi and Kerr as the two coaches who we will be considering for the head coach role. Kerr was recently the coach of Simba while Maccoppi came to our attention on the recommendations of one of our coaches&rdquo; revealed club official Ronald Ngala. The assistant secretary further disclosed that they were to make the final decision on their choice by close of business yesterday or today morning. &ldquo;We are only waiting to hear the terms that either coach will want in his new contract before making our choice public but I can assure you by tomorrow (today), we will have named our new head coach&rdquo; Ngala said.Meanwhile, after taking charge of the club for the first time since the surreptitious departure of Dorian Marian, AFC Leopards stand-in coach Tom Juma has decried the number of chances the side wasted in their loss to Kariobangi Sharks over the weekend.Juma a former Leopards and Harambee Stars midfield stalwart pointed to the numerous goal scoring opportunities that were spurned as a reason for their loss.&ldquo;We were very wasteful. We wasted more than five clear chances in the first half while Kariobangi Sharks made use of the chances they created. The moment Sharks got the first goal we got destabilized, you know conceding against the run of play, and we never really came back. In football you win some and you lose some, but you can&rsquo;t be losing most. Our next game is now a must-win match because Ingwe is a big club. We can&rsquo;t continue staying in the bottom half of the table.We must find ways of ending the poor run and I am confident that we will,&rdquo; he said on the league&rsquo;s official portal. Juma and his technical staff have their work cut out as Leopards are just five points clear of the relegation zone.