With the global attention set to switch to the Kenyan capital of Nairobi in less than a week when the historic World Under-18 Athletics Championships kick off at Kasarani, the event received Sh104 million boost from telecommunication giants Safaricom.While handing over the dummy cheque to the First Lady, Her Excellency Margaret Kenyatta, who is also the patron of the championship on behalf of the Local Organizing Committee (LOC), Safaricom&rsquo;s head of Business Technical Department, said the money was meant to help set up free Wi-Fi services at the venue which will be accessible to fans and participants alike as well as phones to the participants and media engagements through advertisements.Prior to receiving the dummy cheque, the First Lady was given her first official tour of the Athletes&rsquo; Village at Kenyatta University as well as the games venue and warm up tracks at Kasarani and also met the athletes. She said she is thrilled at the level of preparedness before the competition begins next week.&ldquo;This championships offer us as a country a fantastic opportunity to showcase our diverse sporting ability to the world. We are proud of our youngsters, who have the best mentors like Catherine Ndereba and Julius Kariuki who will act as an inspiration for them to do well. The stage has been set for our athletes and success is within their reach. We will celebrate, applaud and support our youth at this time and we want to assure them that we will be rooting for them to emerge as champions,&rdquo; said the First Lady.LOC chief executive officer, Mwangi Muthee revealed that the preparations are 98 percent complete and were only finalizing on the laying of the tartan track at both the main stadium and the warm up track. &ldquo;However, we will not celebrate yet. A lot of work still needs to be done. It is time for to roll up their sleeves and finish what we started as our visitors start arriving,&rdquo; said Muthee, who revealed that the first nation to arrive for the championships was Poland who were due to touch down last night. Sports Cabinet secretary, Hasssan Wario lauded the effort of the LOC, adding that the Kenyan athletes were prepared to conquer the world like they have done in other countries. Also present was AK president Jack Tuwei as well as top Ministry of Sports officials and members of the LOC.