There's a web of witchcraft in Kenya.Consider these examples. Some true, some perhaps apocryphal but the deep-seated belief in magic is alive and well.* Fifteen Mombasa and Congo witch doctors are camping in Samburu to aid opponents of Governor Moses Lenolkulal. "They brought witch doctors to blind and confuse supporters to vote against us," the governor says. Claims politicians visit witches' dens in Maralal slums.* An elected Kwale politician says &ldquo;most&rdquo; seek dark forces and pay whatever it takes. &ldquo;With the help of medicine, especially those whose tongues are incised by witch doctors, we are able to get huge crowds and support.&rdquo;* Witch doctor Juma in Likoni, says he charges Sh15,000 for an MCA, more for other seats. &ldquo;This enables us to trace your star and allow the uncles to tell us how to help you.Juma is dark and bearded, his hair is tangled, his nails jagged. He speaks in a deep voice and stammers as he talks to a reporter at night at Shelly beach. &ldquo;These rituals are sensitive. If you don&rsquo;t appease the goods, you are doomed,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;We may not not succeed, no matter how hard we try. Then you must step back, cleanse your path and make peace."* Witch doctor Mzee Ali in Likoni says, &ldquo;A teacher in Bamburi won a seat courtesy of our services, believe it or not.&rdquo; * Another Coast medicine man, who wouldn&rsquo;t be identified, says he &ldquo;handles&rdquo; presidential candidates and visits politicians' homes at night to "bless" them. He secretly attends their rallies to cast spells. The colours red, white and black are favoured. Many common witchcraft items can bought in stores. The spirits make them potent. They are &ldquo;immersed' and prayed over. The sorcerer inscribes a metal ring with a politician's name, prays and does &ldquo;secret things.&rdquo; It is smeared with perfume to give him an easy time in office. Mysterious &lsquo;lion&rsquo;s oil&rsquo; is crucial.* Cases of missing children, especially albinos, increase during election periods as their body parts are used for witchcraft charms and fetch high prices," says Haki Africa coordinator Francis Auma.* A former second-term MP allegedly rode on a crocodile in Zanzibar after visiting a witch doctor in 2013. He lost.*Annette Mutheu, a famous traditional healer in Kisii, says politicians usually have their homes "treated" and a witch doctor visits at odd hours, going around the homestead, either sprinkling the blood of slaughtered animals or burying some concoctions."*A Nyanza governor was taken to a witch doctor by a prominent parliamentarian and driven to the medicine man&rsquo;s home in a sleek vehicle. The governor stripped down to his shorts and a concoction was brewed. Rituals were performed, he drank a potion, lay on an animal skin and was anointed with oil and sprinkled with herbs. The witch doctor spoke in tongues.The politicians paid the Sh1 million bill for his friend.* A Senate aspirant went to the home of a Tanzanian witch doctor. He was required to carry a huge python around his neck and drink a concoction. He was given a charm to carry whenever he campaigns* Coastal shrines and caves are favoured, especially in Mwembe Tayare and Kongowea. Politicians kneel, cover their heads with black cloth. They are surrounded by smoke, rituals are performed, Their tongues and bodies may be incised.Mzee Mohamed Akida, 68, healthcare practitioner and chairman of the Herbalist Society of Kenya, says no one is hurt with their magic. Tongue incision is discouraged due to transmission of disease.&ldquo;The spirits direct you,&rdquo; says the seer with dark, wrinkled skin and a deep voice. He speaks slowly and trembles. Anything can become a charm, like crushed leaves that politicians carry in plastic pouches at their waist, women wear them around their neck. Mwangaluche, papai dume and mrehani leaves are often crushed and mixed. &ldquo;One become lovable and when they carry these charms at political events,&rdquo; he says. Sometimes charms are buried at a politician&rsquo;s home.He says perfume is used by while the Koran is quoted. Different spirits prefer different perfumes. Metal rings are engraved with names, enchanted and worn by politicians.*Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi created an uproar in February when he told a crowd that witch doctor Kaana na Njoka would help Senator Kiraitu Murungi. He introduced him as Mugambi Barongo James. &ldquo;I am equipped with poison. When you get close to Aburi, I can bite you and you will not survive &hellip; my pockets are full of charms,&rdquo; the supposed witch doctor said.Later everyone said it was all a bad joke, the witch doctor said he was misunderstood. Kiraitu disavowed it.