Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has criticised his opponents&rsquo; manifestos, saying their blueprints are unrealistic and unimplementable.He said the promises his rivals are making are a clear indication they are ignorant of the office they are seeking and the problems Nairobians face.Kidero singled out Jubilee candidate Mike Sonko&rsquo;s pledge that he will reduce parking fees by half and scrap trade licences for micro and small businesses. He said abolishing the licences would cost the county at least Sh4 billion in lost revenue.The county chief asked how Sonko would finance his operations, given the bloated wage bill and debts, if he scraps the licences.&ldquo;It is not realistic. This coming year, for instance, through the revenue sharing formula, we are getting Sh13.5 billion and another Sh2 billion for the programmes from the national government, mainly in health as conditional grants,&rdquo; Kidero said.&ldquo;Salaries currently are Sh1.3 billion per month and after the salary review will now go to Sh1.5 billion. How will they fund their operations?&rdquo;Kidero also said Sonko&rsquo;s manifesto was copied from his strategic plan. It is anchored on seven pillars, including water and health, enterprise development and employment opportunities, education, management of resources, security, transport and housing. &ldquo;It is all copied from ours. What is different from ours? The only difference is they do not understand the job they supposedly want to do,&rdquo; he said.The city boss, who is seeking a second term on the ODM ticket, said he will not launch a manifesto this time round, but will instead continue implementing the seven-point plan that he unveiled in 2013.&ldquo;A manifesto is a just a policy statement that you convert into plans once elected. We have converted our 2013 manifesto into a strategic plan covering 2015-2025, a waste management plan and the rest,&rdquo; Kidero said.On his performance over five years, the governor said the bloated workforce and huge debts make it hard to achieve his development plans. Most of his budget was committed to recurrent expenditure with hardly 10 per cent going to development expenditure.