Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli has castigated President Uhuru Kenyatta for alleging that the Judiciary is taking sides, especially with the opposition when determining cases touching on the August 8 election. In a statement on Monday, Atwoli said the remarks by the President and other Jubilee leaders are regrettable and likely to cause turmoil as the country moves to the polls. NASA had threatened to boycott the elections if the appeal by IEBC went through. The appeal was that the presidential results be announced at the constituency level, a case that was won by the Opposition last month. "The Presidency is the highest office in the land and any utterance coming from him will have far-reaching implications compared to any other office nor individual. We expect the President to be above such and continue to live up to his oath of office to protect our Constitution while respecting separation of powers and the independence of our Judiciary,"Atwoli said in the statement. Read: Blow to IEBC as High Court nullifies presidential ballot paper tender Atwoli asked the President to avoid being seen agitated when aggrieved by any court ruling and resorting to uncouth attacks on the Judiciary. "This very Constitution compels every Kenyan, all citizens and the government to adhere to the rule of law and nobody should resort into condemning any ruling by our courts since these are independent institutions," he stated. "Kenya is bigger than all of us. Let us not use our positions in power and influence to attack independent institutions as such behaviour negates the very principle of constitutionalism and we appeal to His Excellency the President and his team not to appear desperate before the elections date," he said. His sentiments were echoed by LSKPresident Isaac Okero who said the accusations levelled at the Chief Justice and the Judiciary represent an unacceptable breach of the doctrine of separation of powers. Okero said the remarks by President Uhuru were a gross violation of the independence of the Judiciary at a time when it plays a critical role in resolving questions and disputes arising from the election process. “The LSK deplores and condemns in the strongest terms such attacks upon the Chief Justice, judges and the independence of the Judiciary,” he said.