British writer and poet TS Eliot wrote, &ldquo;We had the experience but missed the meaning.&rdquo; What he was basically saying was that it was possible to undergo a certain experience and fail to understand why that was happening.&lsquo;Meaning&rsquo; as Eliot put it, was the reason why we underwent the experience in the first place. Popular politicians, at the height of their experience in Kenya, often miss the meaning of it all. He is loved in many places in Kenya and almost always for different reasons but as one experiences so much popularity, it is very easy to miss the meaning of it all. Listening to Raila Odinga speaking to the Maasai people a few days ago, one could not help but feel that he has missed the meaning.THE POLITICS OF ORIGINSSpeaking to the Maasai people, he posed a rhetorical question &mdash;&lsquo;Kule anatoka, sababu gani anakuja kwako?&rsquo; (From his place of origin, why is he coming to your place?).There are people who have found those remarks rather intractable and certainly inexcusable for a leader of his stature. Now, there are two issues here: There is what Raila said, and how the people interpreted what he said. What people heard was that &ndash; what are the outsiders (particularly a certain community) doing in the Maasai country? That is the most plausible interpretation, which is why it has caused a great furore in political circles.Leaders are now accusing Raila of preparing the stage for political and ethnic violence. Although Raila has vehemently dismissed that side of the argument, the fact that some Maasai leaders have come to his defence means they agree with that meaning.Unfortunately, practically every tribe in Kenya has land in what Maasai call their traditional homelands. Some of these communities are strong Raila supporters back at home and in their diaspora in Maasai country. For instance, the Kamba and the Abagusii are some of the largest migrant communities in Kajiado, even recently fielding candidates for various positions in the county. All of them are within the NASA group of parties. One wonders how they will reconcile Raila&rsquo;s remarks with their support for him.WHERE DO YOU COME FROM?The politics of origins is very close to the politics of resources, also known as resource nationalism. It gets worse when you attach an ethnic tag to it. Today, Kajiado county is home to all manner of people, thanks to ready capital flows from the nearby Nairobi county, which itself produces about half of Kenya&rsquo;s GDP. Nairobi is a microcosm of Kenya itself, and also of the world, since nearly every nationality under the sun has found home here. Where did all these people come from?Migration has been a part of the human experience since time immemorial. Scientists believe all mankind evolved six to two million years ago from right here in East Africa, which they regard as the &lsquo;cradle of mankind&rsquo;.Kenya is perhaps unique among nations insofar as human migration is concerned. We have all the human groups &mdash; Nilotics, Hamitics, Bantu and Cushitics all crammed up in one space, including the Semitics and Asiatics (Arabs, Chinese, and South East Asians) who came nearly 1,000 years ago, as did Caucasians from Europe, who were here by the 15th Century. This is unlike any other East African country or even any in Africa and the world. All these human beings came from somewhere (and some also left here for elsewhere). So if indeed Raila is to say &lsquo;kule anatoka&rsquo; how far back should we go?INDEPENDENCE AND THE POLITICS OF ORIGINSThe politics of origins in Kenya began with the fight against European colonialism and so we were happy to gang around the idea of &lsquo;Mzungu arudi Ulaya Mwafrika apate Uhuru&rsquo; (Mau Mau). And so we successfully fought against European settlement in various parts of this country. However, we were ever so wary about other communities moving into what we defined as our ethnic space. The first time we experienced inter-ethnic political violence was on November 5, 1960, when a group of Maasai youth attacked 3,000 mainly Kikuyu people attending a Kanu rally in Ngong town. One person was killed and five injured. The Maasai at that time were supporters of Kanu&rsquo;s rival party Kadu, which had espoused &lsquo;Majimboism&rsquo; &mdash; another form of devolution &mdash; but which had distinct ethnic undertones. In short, they did not want the Kikuyu to move into the Maasai country. Many people moved into non-traditional areas, some because of trade, investment, employment, others by marriage and in search of lebensraum. But when we politicised the resources, we fought along tribal lines in the notorious pre- and post-election violence that rocked the nation in various times after Independence. At the coming again of devolution, we are none the wiser, spoiling for a fight with members of migrant communities at the easiest chance.THE GENESIS OF THE PROBLEMOne of the resources that the Maasai have watched with a tearful eye is land.Some of them sold the land and treated the proceeds as &lsquo;income&rsquo;, which went to fund consumption. To be fair to the Maasai, you must understand that they had a difficult transition from migratory pastoralism to sedentarism, and it streamed along the vein of marginalisation. The British dealt with them treacherously and by the time they turned around, so much has happened to them. Selling the land, which was part of their ancient heritage, was orchestrated by their failure to fully take their rightful place at the dawn of the monetarisation of Kenya&rsquo;s economy over a century ago (even though they produced Kenya&rsquo;s first ever graduate).They chose, instead, to operate in the pre-capitalist mode of production, which depended largely on livestock. The intrinsic value of land was, therefore, lost to them, as they only needed it as far as it supported the production of livestock. As such, when it dawned on them that they held a highly desirable good so close to Metropolitan Nairobi, they quickly exchanged it for &lsquo;little&rsquo; money, which largely financed consumption and little of it was reinvested. When that land, now held by others, significantly appreciated in value, they found themselves looking at it with deep nostalgia and bitterness in their hearts and worse, with no money in their hands. This is why Raila&rsquo;s sentiments understandably spoke right into their heart.POLITICISATION OF RESOURCESRaila greatly depends on the idea of resource nationalism, which in effect is the desire to control certain resources within a particular area often defined with ethnic considerations in mind. Resource nationalism begins by identifying a certain (often a scarce) resource (such as land, and lately water), and defining the &lsquo;rightful&rsquo; owners or beneficiaries of that resource and thereafter create delimitation zones around the resource. This is the first step in the politicisation of resources. The second step is by singling out migrant communities within that delimited area and then the politics sets in by claiming that the &lsquo;outsiders&rsquo; who came to take the resource are &lsquo;wrongfully&rsquo; benefitting from it. Land is an appreciating asset and the resultant gain in value often causes feelings of envy and jealousy from erstwhile owners which trigger ethnic jingoism and war. High property prices within Nairobi pushed many to Kajiado to seek a place to call home. Over the years, the appreciation in value of the said land has caused lots of problems for the migrants.RETIRED PASTORI have a friend, a retired Kikuyu preacher now almost 70-years-old. He told me how in 1987, while ministering deep in the Maasai country, he made a friend who offered him some land. He purchased an acre from him for Sh5,000. That year, the place was nothing but a commodious dust bowl with scattered scrubs running into miles &mdash; as far as the eye could see. Even what he paid for that piece was considered very high and his friends told him as much. But he had the mind to buy the land and happily paid for it. Due to the nature of his work, he did not do much on this land, leaving it until last year after he retired and went back to the land with the view of developing it. By this time, lots of developments had come including tarmac, electricity and water, which were not there in 1987. Land there is now going for several millions an acre, a far cry from what he bought it for. To his profound shock, the sons of the Maasai man (now deceased) told him that he could not settle the land and blatantly refused to have him there, even though he held a valid title deed. WHY RAILA HAS MISSED THE &lsquo;MEANING&rsquo;Indeed in 2007, the Kalenjins voted for Raila not because they loved him so much but because they hated another community even more. They had understood Raila as their panacea for their resource problems, pitting them against other communities. As an individual, he indeed thought himself much loved by the people and so, when he fell out with William Ruto, he thought that he should go and &lsquo;talk to the people directly.&rsquo;By this time, the people had lost their love for him and wanted nothing to do with him. He actually seemed surprised at the turn of events so quickly. At the height of his experience with them, he had missed the meaning of it. I am afraid he still doesn&rsquo;t get the meaning, even with the Maasai and other communities still held by the clasp of ethno-resource xenophobia.THE FUTILITY OF ETHNO-RESOURCE NATIONALISMLooking closely at the pattern of political support for Raila, there is a strong resource narrative in all of them. You will also see a distinct pattern of the politicisation of resources. The Murang&rsquo;a Water Collector Tunnel, Itare dam, Turkana oil, Kitui coal, Mau Forest, Coastal lands and now Maasailand have come within the exorbitant political rhetoric of Raila, with regard to resources. Indeed land and water are some of the most politicised resources in Kenya, perhaps more than oil, which is always a driver of conflict in many parts of the world.In the middle of all these is the story of &lsquo;Them vs Us&rsquo;. In the Murang&rsquo;a collector tunnel, the water was going to help relieve dry taps in Nairobi, an ODM-led county, where Raila enjoys the largest cosmopolitan following of any devolved unit in Kenya. On Mau Forest, his co-principal Isaac Rutto has been bitterly embroiled with Raila in the past over the eviction of the Kipsigis people, nearly all of whom were the former&rsquo;s constituents in Bomet. On Maasailand, the Abagusii are some of the biggest migrant groups and since they staunchly support Raila, how will this play out with them?On the Itare dam, he tried to get the Kipsigis to be angry at Jubilee by stating that the proposed Sh38 billion dam would cause desertification in Kericho, and finish the tea industry. When that didn&rsquo;t work, he moved to why the water was going to Naivasha to &lsquo;benefit others&rsquo;. In our highly fractious political environment, ethno-resource nationalism is a click away from conflict pitting even people on the same side of the political divide. It is essentially a zero-sum game and at the end of it, nobody wins.COOPERATION VS CONFRONTATIONIn his last visit to Kenya, Raila&rsquo;s bosom friend President John Magufuli of Tanzania pleaded with Kenyans to shun tribalism, or better still &lsquo;negative ethnicity&rsquo; to use the words of Koigi wa Wamwere, another staunch Raila ally. I wonder how Magufuli would reconcile Raila&rsquo;s remarks with his sentiments. What must Koigi be feeling now, or Junet Mohamed, or Shakil Shabir? Is Raila&rsquo;s &lsquo;love&rsquo; for them only politically correct? Are they a stepping stone to something else? The greatness of such nations as America was the invitation of migrants who brought in new ideas, expertise, capital and labour which worked to make the nation great. Working together instead of confrontation is the best way forward. Eliot continues by saying, &ldquo;And approach to the meaning restores the experience in a different form.&rdquo; Perhaps Raila should try to understand the meaning of it all and only then could he re-define his experience, which will allow him take up his rightful place as one of the greatest leaders Kenya ever had.