Are President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and his Jubilee administration splashing millions in taxpayers’ money against the law to campaign in media? This is the question some NASA lawmakers are seeking answers to. One opposition legislator had a bitter exchange with his Jubilee counterpart, a staunch Uhuru defender, when he insisted the government was violating the Elections Laws by advertising its achievements in the press ahead of the August 8 polls. The agitated NASA lawmaker maintained that phrases such as ‘GoK Delivers’, ‘Jubilee Delivers’ accompanying the adverts justify the violation of the law and illegal use of money from the public coffers. The Jubilee lawmaker, however, told his colleague to draw the line between Jubilee Party and Government affairs before making accusations against the President. === A NASA honcho from Nyanza who has been working closely with some Jubilee intermediaries to win lucrative tenders in government is in total panic. The former lawmaker and business baron recently differed with his Central Kenya counterpart over a deal gone sour, initiating a frosty relationship. With the bad blood between them already taking a toll on their business, the Mt Kenya wheeler-dealer, known to have strong connections to powerful individuals, was overheard claiming that he will teach his friend a bitter lesson. The two, who jointly owned a thriving company in the lucrative construction industry, broke up and are said to have initiated the process of dissolving the firm. === The General Election in 19 days seems to be forcing the restructuring and transfers of public workers both in the county and national governments for various unexplained reasons. Some Nairobi county employees, for instance, are the latest to be subjected to such transfers. Word has it that more than 60 workers from one community have been moved from one department to another. What has raised eyebrows is that the majority of those transferred are from the lucrative parking department. Whether someone is strategising ahead of the polls or the employees have been engaging in unlawful activities, only time will tell. the two Luhya principals in NASA entangled in their unending supremacy battles again? Right. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi seem to be battling over control of the Western region. The two Luhya political heavyweights yesterday camped in the region, each asking voters to vote for candidates contesting on his party. It is said Mudavadi, leading NASA’s campaigns has been focussing on Raila Odinga’s presidential election and Wetang’ula is capitalising on the ANC leader’s absence to camp in the region, campaigning for his candidates and popularising Ford Kenya.