The Political Parties Dispute Tribunal is ruling in favour of some politicians to derail parties’ agenda, PNU secretary general John Anunda has said. In a judgment on June 22, the tribunal ruled in favour of petitioner Alphonce Mbida that the party officials were not properly elected and were in office illegally. It ordered its officials to vacate office within seven days. The tribunal also ruled that party leader Peter Munya’s team, which took office on October 28, 2016, hand over office to the previous officials until a proper delegates’ meeting is held. Anunda maintained that Munya, the Meru governor, is
the bonafide leader of the party and other current leaders are in office by law
and according to the party’s constitution. “I am the custodian holder of all PNU elements,
constitution and equipment. Because it is election time, their determination is
to derail our forward move. Let them use courts and newspapers, but I assure PNU
supporters and candidates that Peter Munya is the party leader and we passed a resolution
to support the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he told the Star on
Thursday. The party has obtained a court
injunction preventing the tribunal’s decision from being
implemented until July 25. Anunda added that John Kamama, who claims to be the PNU chairman, has never been gazetted as its leader. “Kamama and two other people had merged the party with Jubilee without the delegates' approval or holding a National Delegates
Convention as per the party’s constitution. So, which party were they left with?” he asked. “But we
intervened and the Registrar of Parties withdrew the merger. It was re-gazetted.
More than 3,000 delegates converged at the Bomas of Kenya during an NDC, where
Munya was unanimously elected leader and was gazetted. We had even invited them [Kamama and the two leaders], [but] they did not appear. The party constitution must be followed to the letter.” Anunda said the same tribunal had earlier ruled that Kamama
had never been the party’s official. He added that he was announced the legal secretary
general.