President Uhuru Kenyatta snubbed the Presidential Debate committee despite promising to engage organisers last week after the Court of Appeal ruling on the Sh2.5 ballot paper tender. However, NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga agreed to take part in the debate on condition the other six presidential contenders were excluded. The IEBC was expecting the Court of Appeal to nullify a High Court ruling last Thursday that had cancelled Al Ghurair’s printing tender on the basis the electoral agency did not allow public participation in the tendering process. The Thursday ruling was in favour of the IEBC. Documents obtained by the Star show Jubilee was to get back to the teams involved last Friday. “Events team reported Jubilee had declined to discuss a debate proposal until after court ruling on Friday,” stated the minutes of a meeting held on July 5 from 11.30am to 1.30pm. “Therefore, meeting agreed any further engagement be on hold until after ruling.” Uhuru insisted he did not agree with the organisers on the modality, despite the team informing him early in the month. Deputy President William Ruto has insisted that he learnt of the debate through the media. “NASA will only agree to a two-way debate,” stated the minutes. Present in the meetings were Kibisu Kabatesi, Salim Lone, Kathleen Openda, Erick Wafukho, Adams Oloo, Faridah Karoney, Francis Munywoki and Danny Mucira. Debate themes included governance (leadership & integrity/corruption, national cohesion, devolution), economy (land, cost of living, trade, economic growth and natural resources) and social development (education, health, and youth and women). The meeting was to receive and review feedback from Presidential Debate event organisers and present both the Jubilee and NASA counter proposals. The organisers explained the criteria used to select the 250 who formed the audience. “Quality control will be imposed on them not to deviate from agreed conduct,” added the minutes. “On debate rules, candidates will be asked the same questions and alternate on who goes first at every new question; rebuttals will be allowed; responses will time-out after adequate warning signs.” The candidates were free to contribute specific questions.