The IEBC yesterday said it has identified key concerns raised by Kenyans and is ready to announce results per constituency as they trickle in. “We had planned to announce the total results at the national tallying centre because our officers have already made them public at the constituency level, but Kenyans want us to announce as they trickle in,” chairman Wafula Chebukati said at Bomas, Nairobi. Bomas is the national tallying centre for the August 8 polls. Chebukati defended the IEBC’s relationship with acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, arguing that he heads a docket that is key to peaceful polls. He promised that the number of spoilt votes will not be as many as in the 2013 election as the electoral agency has conducted sufficient civic education. Officials found compromising the polls will face the law. At each polling station, IEBC officials will identify potential voters and cross out their names on the register. “The voter will place fingers on KIEMS scanner, retrieve his/her details and then the clerks will call his name before he/she proceeds to be issued with the ballot papers,” Chebukati said.  Register is clean Dead voters will not take part in the exercise because the Kenya Integrated Election Management System will identify genuine voters. “In case the device fails to recognise you as a voter, you will have to sign a form, which will also be signed by IEBC officials and other agents at the polling station,” he said. There will be no collusion between parties and ballot paper suppliers to print extra papers because all ballot papers will have serial numbers at the national warehouse, at the constituency and polling stations. These will be reconciled after voting. There will be no deliberate or erroneous tabulation of results at the tallying centres to inflate or deflate the number of votes because KIEMS will be used. IEBC officials have been trained in how to use KIEMS, which has the dual sim capacity to minimise downtimes of a weak internet signal and is supported by back-end data. The polling station remains the true locus for the free exercise of the voters’ will. “The votes cast at each polling centre shall be counted, tabulated and the outcome announced without delay by the presiding officer,” Chebukati said. He said they have employed a strong team of experts to ensure their servers are not hacked.