Former world 800m champion Eunice Sum will be seeking for a spark ahead of the World Athletics championships in London next month when she runs today in Lausanne.Sum has been on a downward spiral for the past two years and finished second at the Kenyan trials a fortnight ago and will be using today&rsquo;s event to gauge her form against a competitive field. Sum has a season best of 1:58.76 and will face Olympic silver medallist, Francine Niyonsaba of Burundi alongside Great Britain&rsquo;s Laura Muir and Dutchwoman Hassan Sifan, winner of the 1,500m race in Paris last week. Also in contention is home favourite Selina Buchel.Cyrus Rutto, winner of the 5000m at the Kenyan trials, will be seeking to bounce back from disappointing 14th place finish in Paris last weekend in the 3000m. Rutto looked out of sorts and will be out to build his confidence ahead of the global showdown. Rutto attributed the poor result to poor weather conditions but expressed confidence of a better outing in the Swiss city.&ldquo;The conditions were not ideal for me as we were preparing. It was rainy and cold but I have since adjusted and learnt my lessons. I expect better results this time round,&rdquo; added Rutto. Rutto faces litmus test from Ethiopian Edris Muktar, winner of the 3,000m last week in Paris, alongside compatriots Yenew Alamirew and Berihu Solomon. Other Kenyans in the line-up include Cornelius Kangongo, Sylvester Kipchirchir and Collins Cheboi. Former Commonwealth Games 1,500m champion Silas Kiplagat leads a Kenyan onslaught in the event. Kiplagat, who has a season best of 3:32.23 will lead Bethwell Birgen, Robert Biwott, Vincent Kibet, Elijah Kiptoo and Andrew Rotich.Competition is expected to come from Matthew Centrowitz, Djibouti&rsquo; Ayanleh Souleiman and Norway Filip Ingebrigsten. Nelly Jepkosgei and Caroline Chepkemoi will spearhead Kenya&rsquo;s quest in the 1,500m and face tall order in the shape of world champion Genzebe Dibaba. Jepkosgei was placed seventh in Paris last weekend. Others to look out for include Jennifer Meadows of Great Britain, Ethiopia&rsquo;s Axumawit Embayae and Aussie Jenny Blundel.Olympic 400m champion and world record holder, Wayde Van Niekerk will be another key highlight at the event. Van Niekerk broke Michael Johnson&rsquo;s 400m world record with a 43.03 performance in Rio while running blind from lane eight thus bringing his 2016 season to an abrupt end. He has so far restricted his 400m races this year to some relatively low-key domestic outings in his native South Africa during March and April.Nevertheless, the only sprinter in history to have run faster than 10 seconds for 100m, 20 seconds for 200m and 44 seconds for 400m showed he was back in great shape when he took another of Johnson&rsquo;s accolades, the 300m world best, at the IAAF World Challenge meeting in Ostrava last week.