Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has defied orders by IEBC that he stops distributing relief maize to starving residents. He said the maize distribution is a county government programme that must not be linked to campaigns for August polls. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Thursday ordered the governor to put the programme to a halt. County Returning Officer Ruth Kulundu told the governor to let CECs and chief officers man the distribution. She said the electoral agency has received numerous complaints from aspirants and political players about the relief program. "The concern by the complainants is that maize bought by the county is being used to woo voters," Kulundu said. But the governor on Friday said he expects IEBC to write an official letter to him regarding the standoff. "I asked them to put the order in writing so that I also reply to them in writing. The maize distribution will continue even if Rasanga is not the governor." "The issue of food shortage is dire and we cannot sit back just because of an imminent election," Rasanga said. He added that the county is also working on a food security policy that will assure residents of constant supplies even during drought. However, Kulundu said they have to make the ground levelled for all players in the race for the top county seat. Independents Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, Dan Omoro, Miguda Winja, and Dan Ogong'a (Jubilee) are in the race to replace Rasanga. The latter is defending his seat on an ODM ticket. The maize issue emerged during a meeting of the commission and the candidates at IEBC offices in Siaya. At the meeting, which the governor attended, several aspirants accused the Commission of turning a blind eye on the issue. Peter Muhula (West Alego MCA) said the governor should be stopped from using public resources to woo voters. Muhula said the County Assembly okayed the purchase of the maize on an understanding that it would cushion those affected by hunger, not politics. Read; IEBC warns public servants over use of state resources in campaigns  