Fast-rising Jamaican pop sensation Samantha J has revealed that she
is excited to come and perform in Kenya in a new interview with Kiss 100
FM. The “Tight Skirt” singer said that she’s been working hard to get
out more music and will be entertaining her Kenyan fans soon. “I plan to come to Kenya, but right now I am focusing on releasing
more music so that I can come there and make the best concert I could
ever do. I am planning a video for my next single already. Next month —
late August — I’m gonna shoot that video in Norway. The next single is
likely to be called called “Rockets” and was produced by the Norwegian
super team of Erik and Kriss. I’m working on releasing a new song every
three months as I am on a new record deal so I have the ability,” she
revealed. Samantha has been riding high with her new smash hit single “Baby
Love” featuring American Grammy Award winning R. City, an American
musical duo hailing from St. Thomas in the U.S. Virgin Islands. The two
recently topped the world charts as part of a collaboration with Maroon 5
lead vocalist Adam Levine. The 20-year-old star gave exclusive details about her collaboration
with globally acclaimed producer RedOne (Lady Gaga, Nicki Minaj) on the
song. She didn’t expect to work with him for so long and he actually
cancelled a family vacation to work with her. “Initially it was supposed to be a one hour meeting. I met with him
and it turned into working for two weeks! In those two weeks, we came up
with like eight songs and “Baby Love” was one of our favorites. We did
the video in Malibu. I am so excited that it’s out now and I can’t wait
to hear what my Kenyan fans will say,” she said. RedOne is known for producing some of the biggest pop songs of the
last decade, including the 2016 hit song “Don’t You Need Somebody” on
which he featured Enrique Iglesias, R. City, Serayah and Shaggy.  Samantha J on the set of “Baby Love.”  There is a remix for Baby Love produced by rising EDM DJ Josh
Bernstein and Samantha will be looking for online posts from Africa of
folks dancing to this version of Baby Love to use in the official remix
video. Bernstein recently produced the RedOne remix to “Don’t You Need
Somebody” with almost one million Spotify streams. The bubbly, adorable and stylish singer has been recording mostly in
Los Angeles, but she also has been in the studio in Boston, Norway, and
Florida. She’s already worked with globally acclaimed producers,
including RedOne (Lady Gaga, Nicki Minaj), R. City (Miley Cyrus,
Beyonce), JR. Rotem (Rihanna, Sean Kingston), Jim Jonsin (T.I., Lil
Wayne), Supa Dups (Bruno Mars, Drake) and The Stereotypes (Bruno Mars,
Justin Bieber, Chris Brown). Samantha’s latest collaboration with R. City marks the start of an
epic journey for her as she plans to release new music every several
months. Should we expect an album from her anytime soon?  Samantha J with Popcaan.  “An album? No…I can say that I have a lot of singles that I’m
releasing. I’ll do an album when I feel comfortable where I feel like
everyone knows me through my music and I have a sound that people all
over the world can hear. People just wanna hear my original music; my
whole body of work. An album is gonna come but right now I wanna give
you hits and hits and hits,” she added. You can check out the interview on Kiss FM online today and follow her on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook to get her latest updates!