The election is about Jubilee's offer of jobs and a clear path to prosperity Opposition based on tribalism and selfish interests, the President has said. Uhuru Kenyatta&nbsp;called on all Kenyans to choose the path already paved by Jubilee for the welfare of each one of them. He said the Opposition, led by NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga, has failed to present an alternative worth considering and had delivered an agenda rich in pursuit of power for personal gain. "There are two roads. There is the road which we have already paved with progress - free maternal health care, free examinations, increased connections to electricity, the Standard Gauge Railway, better health care and more," Uhuru said at Kambu, Makueni county, on his second day of campaigns on Saturday.He added the Jubilee administration is offering jobs including 100,000 paid internships while the Opposition team's first priority is to spend Sh20 billion creating jobs for three men.&ldquo;The Opposition is obsessed with power for themselves. These men want to create three positions of power for themselves rather than create jobs for the millions of Kenyans who actually need them. They want to spend Sh20 billion or more to create those three jobs,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We in Jubilee are working to deliver prosperity for all Kenyans. We want to spend the same Sh20 billion to provide internships for 100, 000 graduates from universities and technical institutes &ndash; effectively starting them up the job market.More on this: Jubilee youths laud Uhuru's internship plan, inclusive manifestoThe other Opposition leaders are Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto (CCM), DP candidate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). The President also compared the change-the-constitution cost with the Sh1.4 billion he is setting aside for a water project that will serve 125,000 people in Kitui county.Uhuru said the Opposition has no agenda for Kenya and is only banking their on ethnic bases.&nbsp;He repeated that none of those in the opposition has anything to show for all the years they were running government. "There is nothing they have done for a collective period of 100 years or more they served in government. All they trade in are stories and insults," said the President who was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto.Uhuru further reminded&nbsp;Kenyans that the people now saying they want to change the constitution are the same ones who said it should not be revised, "even by the insertion of a comma", before it was adopted in 2010. "Was he not the one who said not even a comma should be removed and insulted the other one calling him a watermelon?"Read: I will defeat 'clueless' Raila again - UhuruAlso read: Uhuru and Raila battle shifts to manifestosThe President and DP Ruto noted their confidence in defeating the Opposition more convincingly than in 2013."We trounced them in 2013 when they were running the government and yet we were in the wilderness and carrying a heavy burden on our shoulders. Who thinks they can defeat us today?" posed Uhuru.Uhuru also mocked the Opposition for calling him and the DP children of &nbsp;independence party&nbsp; Kanu. He said Kalonzo was a senior official in Kanu for a long time while others in the Opposition also held senior posts.Makueni governor candidate&nbsp;Gideon Ndambuki said majority of the people have decided to rally behind Uhuru's re-election. "We, the people of Makueni, have decided. We will not abandon you because we know what is good for us."Jubilee leaders are expected to visit&nbsp;Matiliku and Kisau in Mbooni Constituency before wrapping up in Mukaa. &nbsp;&nbsp;