The innovation frenzy comes with a strange charge meant to motivate us to action. We&rsquo;re encouraged to quickly adapt to the changing times &ndash; which is great. But, innovation means different things at different levels. Innovative at Google would be different from that of a startup in Turkey. So, in the innovation discourse, context is key.Last year, over a six-month period, I made it a habit of carrying out an informal, random survey, asking startup/small business owners what their three greatest challenges were. In different ways, the frequent answers were: Poor vision casting, poor financial management and poor employee relations. My enquiry was triggered when I noticed that more SMEs in Nairobi are now concerned with being disruptive. Disruptive fever is in the air. Well, it is no surprise since exposure to media messages has its effects. But, based on where these businesses are and how they operate, being disruptive isn&rsquo;t the issue. They have more pressing needs.In your context, what does disruptive innovation mean? As a business, have you been able to disrupt your own business systems and processes? What innovative ideas do you need to change your business from within? This is how it works: First, you disrupt your business, then you are poised to disrupt the market. The first level of disruption is your business. That&rsquo;s where it starts. Now, I&rsquo;ll ask again: In the context of your business, what does disruptive innovation mean?For many African SMEs, first level disruptive innovation would be: good management. There is no point being poorly run and thinking of disrupting the market &ndash; that would be skipping steps. Putting proper systems in place, value for time - deliver services and show up to meetings on time, good financial management, increasing your leadership capacity &ndash; all these add up to shaping your business into an entity that can truly disrupt the market.There are many basic business issues that are still major concerns in many African markets. The good news is that they can easily be solved. Efficient accounting systems can easily be installed; inventory can be done much better with technology; customer service can easily be improved; with good training and coaching, leadership issues can be worked out; there are tools to better manage cash flow matters, etc. Any African SME can raise their standard of operation and be run much better. The resources are available. Africa is a global market and local businesses should start thinking and operating on global