We have since covered 16 counties (Murang&rsquo;a, Kirinyaga, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Isiolo, Laikipia, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Nakuru, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, Kiambu and Kajiado) in this epic journey round the 47 counties of Kenya. We now set off for the second leg that begins in Narok county. The plains at the foothills of the Ngong Hills, Suswa and Longonot Mountains provide the ultimate welcome. The gentle descents and climbs on the highway from Nairobi to Bomet, combined with the endless beauty of expansive grasslands and wheat fields, provide an unforgettable motorcycle experience. You cannot ride through Narok and not experience the home of the Eighth Wonder of the World &ndash; the great Maasai Mara! We rode the bikes through the surrounding conservancies because of the prohibition of motorcycles entering our national parks. The ride was equally special, as we rode alongside leaping impalas, warthogs, a pack of hyenas, zebras and herds of elephants. The most memorable was watching two male wildebeests lock horns as we rode past them. The most memorable place we found was the Oloololo Escarpment that overlooks the entire Maasai Mara plains and the Serengeti. We found a great Maasai family that hosted and oriented us as we soaked in every moment of the breathtaking view. It was refreshing to see the Maasai Mara at its greenest, and to sample the different shades of green as we rode through the dust-free plains because we had visited during the rainy season.This experience was in stark contract to the tea plantations we rode through in Kericho, and the Sotik highlands in Nyamira. The acreage covered by tea was astounding. The winding roads, the man made forests, the water features and the interplay of private owned tea companies and rural households was amazing. From the sparsely populated tea plantations we encountered the densely populated Kisii highlands. The many subdivided plots and saturated households that dotted the myriad of hills surrounding Kisii was a harsh reminder of how much the land is under pressure by human settlement. Kisii town has probably the highest concentration of motorcycles in the country. We saw boda boda operators ride through the town in droves. Boda boda jams are more likely in Kisii than vehicle jams! Due to this reality, we took the time in conjunction with NIC Bank, to conduct our first and very elaborate Safety Awareness Campaign among boda boda operators in Kisii town. It was refreshing to interact with fellow bikers and challenge them towards road safety. We also had the opportunity to interact with the Kisii county government as we paid a courtesy call to the governor&rsquo;s office.