Word has it that President Uhuru Kenyatta might be heading to Murang’a to quell discontent among voters after he failed to support former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth’s bid for Nairobi's top seat. The trip was put in his campaign schedule after Uhuru asked Kenneth to step down in Dagoretti last week. The region feels left out in Mt Kenya succession politics after Kenneth failed to clinch the party ticket during the JP primaries. His supporters believe Kenneth would capitalise on his management skills in the cosmopolitan city to campaign for President. === Did a former government official pick an illiterate deputy in the race for governor somewhere in Northeastern? Corridors has learnt that the running mate might have dropped out of secondary school and it's only a matter of time before he is exposed. The running mate is also alleged to hold two passports – a UK passport and a Kenyan one. === Did a prolific writer confess in his book that he helped a popular ODM senator procure the services of a prostitute in Europe? Well, the disclosures in his book, published a few years ago, have turned out to be political campaign propaganda fodder in the county where the senator is trying his luck for a county post. The senator, who is unhappy with the manner the writer’s claim has gone viral on most social platforms, is now threatening to sue the writer, years after the book first hit the market. === Are the senior cops’ salaries secretly being significantly increased? Corridors has been informed that after a circular that the salary of police officers will be increased, junior officers took to social media and WhatsApp groups to celebrate. However, they complained that some of their seniors' salaries were secretly increased. The junior officers claim that with senior officers enjoying better terms, it will be hard for the country's top leadership to understand the challenges that cops face. The officers have threatened to begin on a go-slow from August 1 if government does not live to its promise. === Talk of politics and propaganda! It is alleged Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu’s campaign team in Kiambu county is lying to residents that a vote for Governor William Kabogo is a vote for NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. They warn voters that if President Uhuru Kenyatta wins the election, Raila will enjoy the support of the independent candidates in the National Assembly. And there’s a no-confidence vote plot in the mix. The propaganda comes after Kabogo went back to the drawing and he has been gaining ground very fast.