The death of the Kenya's Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery has left hearts broken and many people weeping. Described as honest, loyal and a close friend to many, the late CS has left untold marks in people's heart. Nkaissery died at Karen hospital in Nairobi after a rare heart attack. Read: Postmortem shows Nkaissery died of a rare heart attack, medics rule out foul play His abrupt death is not likely to be forgotten by many. His family and colleagues eulogised him as a father of all.  His funeral service on Saturday brought together leaders, friends, relatives and even political rivals. Most of the mourners wore black dresses and suits. Some of them cried and wiped their tears for a better part of the day as Nkaiserry's wife Hellen and children spoke.  Cabinet Secretaries carried the flag-draped coffin of the Interior CS after it was removed from the hearse. President Uhuru Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga attended the funeral.  With the somber mood that engulfed the region, many leaders put aside their differences and joined mourners to give the departed a worthy send off. The funeral service at the late CS' home in Bisil, Kajiado county was led by the Baptist Church. Hundreds of villagers mourned their son who they said loved all and never discriminated anybody. Some Maasai women mourned as Nkaissery's coffin was being taken to the burial site.  Read: Uhuru, Raila share podium at Nkaissery burial ceremony During speeches, Uhuru and leaders alike preached peace ahead of the August 8 elections. Uhuru said Insults and chaos days before the elections will not add any vote. He said the youths who attack Jubilee and NASA leaders must stop the acts. This followed the attack on NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga's motorcade in Thika on Thursday and in Baringo on Wednesday.  DP William Ruto was also heckled during a tour of Kisumu to popularise Jubilee Party in Nyanza. More on this: Nkaissery burial: Stone throwing, insults won't add you votes - Uhuru Nkaissery was born on November 28, 1949 and at the time of his death, the CS was aged 67.  He was an MP from 2002 to 2014, when he resigned to become CS, Internal Security and Coordination of National Government. Before joining politics, Nkaissery served in the Kenya Defence Forces, rising to the rank of a Major General. More on this: CS Nkaissery loved pot wine and vanilla ice cream, family says in tribute Read: CS Nkaissery's last day was the warmest in our marriage, says Hellen 