It is 6pm on a Thursday evening. I am sitting alone in a broken wooden chair at the edge of Kibera. The smell of burning plastic &ndash; all too familiar to anyone who lives here &ndash; mixes with the smell of fresh spicy masala tea brewing in the streetside tea cafe I am seated at. I am not sure what to expect and I&rsquo;m a little nervous. The person who replied to my message gave only the location, time and a request to make sure the battery is out of my phone when I arrive. These HUYO! guys don&rsquo;t mess around with security, because a mistake could be fatal.Two weeks ago, the HUYO! Twitter page that seemed inactive, suddenly buzzed back to life with cryptic posts about a new investigation, in collaboration with local investigators Africa Uncensored, promising to blow the lid off yet another corrupt public service &ndash; this time traffic police hustling the more than 30,000 matatu drivers within Nairobi. Episode one of four aired last night on KTN with the entire campaign dubbed #InspectorFisi.This follows the investigation unit&rsquo;s expos&eacute;, #KanjoKingdom, last year, which resulted in the suspension of five city county askaris and six of their bosses, and the dismissal of another with various court cases pending against them for the millions of shillings taken in bribes from Nairobi&rsquo;s street vendors. The head of Nairobi&rsquo;s Inspectorate, Hillary Wambugu, was also dismissed following the investigation.After about 20 minutes, a girl calling herself Jane finally arrives with a rough-looking guy who does not make eye contact and limps. She immediately makes sure our phones do not have batteries inside before a single word further is uttered.Jane, one of the citizen activists filming the corruption, pulls out a crumpled sheet of paper with a long list of names and ranks on. While she will not let me read the list, she tells me these are the names, badge numbers, and ranks of the traffic police her team has caught red-handed taking millions of shillings in bribes from matatu drivers trying to make a living.Her compatriot sitting to her right, introduced only as Malcolm, through his rough beard specked with scars collected from a rough upbringing, smiles and says that &ldquo;these hyenas have what&rsquo;s coming to them&hellip;I just hope they don&rsquo;t get off the hook like so many do when caught&rdquo;.Both of them, and many in their teams, have been beaten by the police at least once, and have been mugged at gunpoint several times while filming in the dangerous environments they have worked in to collect this evidence. Jane says this kind of story has the power to change society and challenge norms, and is the reason she chose to do this dangerous work.&ldquo;It is knowing that by empowering people suffering at the heart of such corruption, I&rsquo;m giving them rights&hellip;together &ndash; children, women, youths and men of Kenya &ndash; we can put a big X on corruption, irrespective of our age, tribe, background, or profession when we commit to it!&rdquo;A large focus of the investigation is on the amount of money that is lost to corruption in the public transport sector. Africa Uncensored&rsquo;s figures conservatively indicate a daily loss to corruption through traffic police bribes from matatu drivers at approximately Sh14 million each day in Nairobi alone. For the whole country, the figure climbs to more than Sh70 million per day lost to this brand of corruption. Malcolm and Jane say this money could be put to much better use to maintain the many rundown matatus, thus reduce the shockingly high accident rates involving Nairobi&rsquo;s favourite means of public transport.John Allan-Namu, editor and founder of Africa Uncensored, says the investigation will be instrumental in challenging the impunity of the traffic police and showing Kenyans a different perspective on the issue of corruption.&ldquo;It is not as if we have not seen these things before, but placing the viewer inside the matatu while these crimes take place helps the viewer to see how deep and unsolvable this is when left to the police [and state] alone to resolve.&rdquo; Malcolm ends the meeting with an explanation of why he does this kind of dangerous activism.&ldquo;I have to do what I do because I have a family to take care of. This is why I want to change this country. I am putting my life on the line for the next generation. For my daughter to have a better life. I do it for Nairobi and Kenya, and I would love it to be peaceful and secure because there is no security in rural areas where my family live.&rdquo;