Lawyers have chided President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto for reprimanding the Judiciary following the Al Ghurair tender case. LSK on Monday said accusations leveled against Chief Justice David Maraga are a breach of the constitutional principle of separation of powers. In a statement, chairman Isaac Okero said the attacks by the executive are a gross violation of the independence of the judiciary. "Questioning the independence of the judiciary erodes the foundation of the administration of justice and the rule of law." On Sunday, Uhuru and Ruto warned the judiciary, and in particular the CJ, over decisions that may jeopardise the August 8 elections. "Don’t think we are stupid because we are quiet. We don’t fear you," Uhuru said during a campaign rally in Baringo. He said government’s continued silence on certain court decisions the court regarding the electoral process should not be construed to mean he was a coward. "If (CJ David) Maraga wants to join politics, he should come and seek peoples’ mandate," Ruto said. Read: UhuRuto caution Judiciary not to aid NASA sabotage polls But Okero expressed regret that the attacks came at a time the courts are playing a critical role in resolving disputes arising from the electoral process. "The performance of this function forms part of what shall deliver an election process that meets the constitutional standard," he said. "It is a function that must be left to the judiciary to discharge without any interference." Article 160(1) empowers the courts to make decisions only based on the constitution. The president and DP's sentiments followed the Friday ruling which nullified the presidential ballot papers tender awarded to Dubai's Al Ghurair printing firm. The court said there was no public participation in the award of the tender and directed a repeat of the procurement process. It, however, dismissed all other accusations against the Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission in the suit filed by the National Super Alliance (NASA). Okero said it was irresponsible for the head of state and the DP to vent their anger and insinuate that the court was partial and made decisions based on bias. He said such acts erode the confidence of the judiciary and amount to intimidation which is against the oaths of office the two took. In a quick rebuttal on Sunday, CJ Maraga maintained that the Judiciary will continue making decisions based on the Constitution. Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said the remarks by the President
and other Jubilee leaders are regrettable. "They are likely to cause turmoil as
the country moves to the polls," he said on Monday. More on this: COTU castigates Uhuru for warning Judiciary on poll cases 