National Super League side Talanta have unveiled eight new signings as part of a five-year strategic plan geared better results, nurturing talents and developing football in the country. The club captured the players from the two main leagues in the country in a bid to boost their current squad which has managed six wins, four draws and seven losses to leave them 12th on the standings with 22 points. Among the eight new faces brought in is experienced Charles Bruno, who was signed from AFC Leopards. Others are Billington Luvai from Zoo Kericho, Julius Mwangi from Wazito, Bersiky Otieno from Vihiga United, Bidco duo of Kenneth Githinji and Athony Gicho, Joel Bataro from Nairobi Stima and Oscar Oliech from Chemilil Sugar . Besides the unveiling of the new signings, the club also unveiled the team as a whole as part of the squad which will feature in the remainder of the season with their deputy head coach Moses Irungu tipping them to excel. “It is a gradual process for a team to grow. We were not in our best before but it is evident we are on the right track. The experience the new signings brings will boost our performance and I am confident we will go far,” said Irungu. The club earned praises for its organization from various speakers who were present in their launch with chairperson Wanjiru Mahiu expressing her gratitude to everyone who supported their program. “It is a plan to empower the youth who have different talents since we do not major on football alone. We thank those who have supported our program and we urge them to keep on supporting us. I wish the new team all the best,” said Mahiu. Registrar of Sports, Rose Wasike, who graced the event urged the new playing unit to rise above the limits and reach their dreams. “I urge the new playing unit to showcase their prowess in the field and reach their dreams. It is a good move that Talanta have complied with the set standards and are fully licenced. I call upon other clubs to follow the suit and do their business in the legal way.” The club is sponsored by Communications Authority of Kenya and UNICEF.