Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa has implicated some politicians in Lamu in the recent spate of terror attacks in the county. He, however, did not name names. Following the events, Marwa has issued a shoot-to-kill order for any terrorist spotted anywhere in the county. Speaking in Lamu yesterday, Marwa said he is aware theThursday terror attack, in which Public Works PS Mariam El Maawy was briefly held hostage by suspected militants, was politically instigated. She was heading to Witu to visit displaced families. Marwa said the plot was aimed at instilling insecurity fears so that locals would flee and not vote next month. He said it is clear the areas targetted in the terror attacks were those perceived to be Jubilee strongholds. Marwa said the terror incidents in the Poromoko, Pandanguo and Jima areas in Lamu county are merely political strategies by those who plan to scare away voters. He said he is aware some politicians are funding criminals to carry out the attacks. The official said the Thursday incident in which El Maawy was caught up in was a well organised crime. ‘politicians fund terrorists’ He swore the perpetrators will be apprehended. “They want people to think it’s terrorists, but we know of politicians who are providing funding so that residents are killed and others flee. All these are political calculations.They want to instill fear, but we want to let them know that people will vote and will do so in large numbers too,”Marwa said. He said politicians from Lamu and the neighbouring Tana River counties have been funding ‘terrorists’ and warned they will be brought to book soon. Marwa said some politicians from the two counties have funded youths to wreak havoc during campaigns and on Election Day. He said it is unfortunate the politicians protect and even give food to terrorists in the Boni Forest to ensure they are comfortable as they continue to frustrate locals. “Why hasn’t the governor or any leader for that matter come out to even send a condolence message to the PSA and the families of those who died or even condemn the incident? What’s the meaning of their silence? These people are given food and weapons. They pass through villages as they go to conduct raids. Surely, someone must be seeing or knowing them,” Marwa said.  frisk everyone Meanwhile, the regional coordinator announced there are al Shabaab spies at the main entry and exit points of Lamu and Mokowe Jetty. They are said to give information on prominent people visiting the county. Speaking yesterday, Marwa directed police officers to have all persons entering and leaving Lamu town thoroughly frisked. He said his office knows there are youths who are being paid by politicians to collect and furnish them with information about the movements of particular persons. Marwa said terror activities are planned and executed based on such information. “You may think they are innocent idle youths walking all over the place day and night, but they are in fact spies. We want those responsible arrested, even if it’s the governor of Lamu,” he said. 