ODM wants the IEBC to come clean on the officials it will deploy to oversee the August 8 polls. Party deputy leader Hassan Joho and director of elections Junet Mohamed yesterday demanded that the electoral agency publish the names of the officials. Joho said they have information that some security officers are trained to man the upcoming election. He termed it imprudent for the IEBC to collude with the Jubilee administration to influence election results. “We’re warning security officers and civil servants who will allow themselves to be used to influence the polls that they should prepare to take responsibility over their conduct,” Joho said. The two leaders spoke during a meeting with Homa Bay youth. They also took issue with the voter register, accusing the commission of not doing enough to clean it. Joho said the register is still awash with ghost voters. “The commission published voter lists per counties, but we wonder what the name of Jacob Juma is still doing in the list,” he said. Mohamed said the ODM and NASA fraternity will not accept a rigged election. He claimed the register has about three millon ghost voters and told the IEBC to assure Kenyans that it will respect the will of the people. “The IEBC should work in Kenyans’ interests. We would like to announce as the winner the person who will be transparently voted in as President,” Mohamed said. Other leaders present were Governor Cyprian Awiti, woman representatives Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Mishi Mboko( Mombasa), Rose Nyamunga (Kisumu), Senator Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay), MPs Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Millie Odhiambo (Mbita), Oburu Oginga (nominated), candidates Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Steve Mbogo (Starehe). Wanga, Odhiambo and Kajwang’ told KPMG to be aboveboard in its work. “The agenda NASA has for the youth will serve your interest,” Owino said. Joho urged Nyanza residents to vote for ODM candidates to strengthen the party. “We want residents to forget about what happened during the nominations and vote six-piece, as it will be beneficial to the party,” he said. As deputy party leader, let be clear it that only ODM, CCM, ANC, Ford Kenya and Wiper are in NASA. Others don’t belong to us, hence their leaders should not dupe you.”