So, I have worked for a Ghanaian man for most of my adult life. He is a badass businessman called PQ, aka Chief. The chief is a strong believer in &lsquo;numbers&rsquo;, he always reminds my fellow slaves at the plantation that numbers never lie!!!!Now that the IEBC has officially released the total number of registered voters after expunging the deceased voters, it&rsquo;s clear the youth have the deciding vote. Basically, the milenials hold the key to Kenya&rsquo;s future. I would like to educate our local politicians on how to attract the youth so that they can trust the system and actually forget about data bundles, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Bae etc...Kenyan politicians need to forget about previous campaigns and change tactics, eg politicians need to get endorsements from our IG-socialites, #TeamMafisi, #TheBeardgand #420 #maryjaneit #hightimes ...etc. These are the things that matter and will get the ma-youth to vote in large numbers....In fact if Huddah or Vera&rsquo;s Twins aka Nyash endorsed any politician, the chance of that politician getting all the youth votes is very high....So when I see bridges collapsing and my President doing road shows I get very confused.....But then again I&rsquo;m just #TheRaverend, my opinion matters most at the bar, where I&rsquo;m the king....So, moving on swiftly, Sunday I acted a full movie at Onyx during Michelle Ntalami&rsquo;s birthday party...walked into the place with two feet, but left in an ambulance and woke up with a serious Baaablasss feeling like the Kansoul....Monday to Wednesday I had officially quit drinking until I was invited for a cognac meeting at the Intercontinental hotel by Viva Global as we celebrated the official exclusive partnership between Viva and Mo&euml;t Hennessy. In attendance was Mo&euml;t Hennessy MD Africa and UAE Pascal.After this, I had to head straight to B Club where I was hosting Nigerian superstar Davido, who was on a stopover from Djibouti. The night was more than a movie it was more of a thriller action packed! On Thursday #TheRaverend was re-writing history with Gillette #NyoaKipro as he joined over 3,000 men at Kenyatta University for a shaving binge. Big S/O too all #BeardGang members who joined #TheRaverend to break the world record set by Mexicans!!!! From breaking the world record, the afterparty moved from KU to B Club for Jidenna&rsquo;s (pictured) meet and greet.Yesterday, I was chilling with youth who are doing extraordinary stuff in the #Heroes4Change Campaign at Kabete campus before heading out for my rehearsals for Hennessy FOMO party.Tonight it&rsquo;s all about the Hennessy FOMO party at the Ccarnivore where Jidenna and Nyashinski will be live on stage hosted by The No.Hype man and #TheRaverend.....The afterparty will be happening at Privee Westlands!!!!!RAVEREND VIBES:Must Do!!! #TheVibeThe vibe this week was all about the BET Awards 2017...with the night&rsquo;s big winners being the mother of twins Beyonc&eacute; and Bruno Mars, taking the female and male artist awards respectively...The Biggest Fight:Mumble rappers aka Trap rappers Migos won the best HipHop award..Quavo and his skwaaad also won the best fight category after fighting Joe Burden and later one Chris brown...Africans who vibed at the BET Awards:The Ghetto boys from Uganda were a vibe performing alongside French Montana....With former Kiss100 comedian Chipukezeey snatching a selfie with Hakeem Lyon...Yes the Lyon of Mlolongo did meet Lyon wa EmpireDJ Khaled was also a vibe as he brought his infant baby Assad on stage during his BET performance... Not forgetting Mama Africa Yvonne Chaka Chaka who was honoured as the Global God Star and Power Awards