One of Kenya’s iconic landscapes - Chyulu Hills - will soon reap big from the sale of two million carbon credits. Located between Amboseli and Tsavo national parks, Chyulu Hills is an integral part of Kenya’s largest conservation landscape that has been severely degraded by overgrazing, drought, deforestation and forest degradation. It is home to traditional pastoralist Maasais, small-scale farmers and many of Africa’s most iconic species, including endangered rhinos and elephants. It served as the inspiration for Ernest Hemingway’s ‘Green Hills of Africa’. Chyulu Hills’ springs serve as a critical freshwater source for local communities, wildlife and livestock, as well as more than one million people living in Mombasa. “The Maasai community supports this project and it is an important opportunity to demonstrate building our local economy based on protecting the natural environment, living sustainably, and maintaining our cultural link to the land while promising a better future for generations to come,” Samson Parashina, a Maasai leader and chairman of the Chyulu Hills Conservation Trust, said. The revenue from the sale of carbon credits will be reinvested into community conservation efforts. The project is managed by the local landowners, including indigenous Maasai communities, NGO partners, national parks and forest institutions. Revenue from the sale of carbon credits, available for sale to corporations and individuals through the Conservation International Carbon Calculator, will help reduce deforestation and protect forests and natural resources. It will also support employment of forest and game rangers, safeguard the Chyulu Hills water catchment and provide communities with improved social services in health and education, employment and business opportunities. Conservation International’s senior technical manager Christina Ender said the initiative has the potential to be life-changing for forest and rangeland-dependent communities who lack other economic alternatives. “The carbon credit programme activities will help ensure the protection of the forests, which is critical to sustaining both communities and wildlife,”she said. The project is managed by the Chyulu Hills Conservation Trust, a coalition of government, community and NGO partners including the Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust, Big Life Foundation, and the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust. Conservation International will continue to serve as a technical adviser and help market the credits to corporations and inviduals. “This project creates two significant opportunities, simultaneously: It paves the way for ecosystem-scale conservation efforts to finally grow beyond perpetual dependency on philanthropic grant funding and finally be underwritten sustainably and long-term by cutting edge market economic models,” Edward Norton, the United Nations goodwill ambassador for biodiversity and President Maasai Wilderness Conservation Fund, said. And in parallel, it offers not just responsible companies, but individuals, a way to offset their carbon footprint. 