Lugari MP Ayub Savula yesterday said it’s wishful thinking by some NASA leaders that Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka will automatically be the alliance’s presidential candidate in 2022. Savula said the agreement deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties by NASA is clear that all the five anchor parties will compete to pick a flagbearer for 2022. “Musalia Mudavadi is the kingmaker in this NASA thing. It’s Mudavadi who founded and surrendered the NASA name for use by the coalition,” he told the Star on the phone. If the alliance wins, Raila, seen as a transitional leader, is expected to serve for one term — and will not run in 2022, according to the agreement. Campaigning in Central Kenya on Monday, the ODM leader said he is certain of winning. “We’re sure we will form the next government and Kalonzo will be the Deputy President. He [Kalonzo] stands a chance of becoming President in NASA,” Raila said. Kalonzo supported Raila’s bid in 2013 under Cord, following an MoU that Raila would back him this year if they won the election. Raila lost to Jubilee’s Uhuru Kenyatta, though Cord said the election was rigged. ODM says the loss voided the deal, as it was premised on Raila’s victory. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi came third with less than half a million votes. He ran under UDF, which merged with other parties to form JP. Analysts say a NASA victory could spark wars among the four principals angling to succeed Raila. If this competition is not handled skillfully, it might hurt his performance on August 8. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula are all set to bid for the NASA ticket in 2022 after sacrificing their ambitions for Raila. Yesterday, Savula said Raila will be required to back the agreed candidate. But Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy believes the chances of each co-principal succeeding Raila will depend on how they perform at the upcoming polls. He has urged Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to work hard to ensure their parties win more seats in August and deliver the highest numbers of votes to the alliance to boost their bargaining power in 2022. “Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should know 2022 will be renegotiated and they only stand a chance if they deliver enough votes, governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs and MCAs,” he said yesterday. “They will again have to wait longer if Kalonzo gets more seats and delivers more votes for the presidential race.”