President Uhuru Kenyatta's constant attacks on Governor Hassan Joho could be because of a shared past, a Coast scholar has said. Professor Rocha Chimera of Pwani University said Joho might have a dossier that Uhuru fears will be exposed. "That is why he keeps pushing him to the wall to shut him up," he said without giving more details. The political analyst further said Uhuru has resorted to propelling the narcotics agenda when in Mombasa to discredit Joho's candidature. He said the President might have ignited the debate on Tuesday to upset the incumbent county boss' campaign momentum. Chimera also said the head of state's focus on the issue might have been informed by his political differences with Joho. In February, he fiery county chief told Uhuru to clean his house first before linking him to the illegal trade. In an earlier interview, the governor noted he was exonerated of wrongdoing years back. On Tuesday, Uhuru said Joho was opposed to the Naivasha dry port project for fear of losing the narcotics transit route at Mombasa port. He also said the Governor will not be able to smuggle contraband goods once the dry port becomes operational. "You know they are used to smuggling of goods and drugs. They don't want to pay customs fees," the President said at Frere Town in Nyali. "They don't pay tax on goods they import and sell to Kenyans. That is why they target this port (KPA). We have told them the business is over." Five months ago, Joho said those linking him to narcotics did the same in 2013 and are now peddling lies to block him from defending his seat. "No one has ever accused me of drug trade or summoned me over the same. These are fabricated lies (by Jubilee leaders) to block me from defending my seat," he told a press conference. More on this: [VIDEO] Agitated Joho scolds Uhuru, Ruto on drug dealing, says war now political Also read: Contraband trade is over, Uhuru tells Joho over Naivasha dry port "FIGHTING JOHO IS FIGHTING ELECTORATE" Chipera said the fact that the governor landed in the US and was not arrested is an indication there is nothing to link him to the illicit business. "Nigerian billionaires involved in shoddy deals were arrested when they landed in the US. I can say the attacks are political." He added that whether the dry port is established or not, the port of Mombasa will still remain a preferred transit route. Another professor who sought anonymity said the President sees the ODM deputy leader as a threat to his preferred candidate. Uhuru's Jubilee Party has fronted banker Suleiman Shahbal to vie against Joho who has declared he will leave no stone unturned in campaigns for NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga. "If the agenda was indeed genuine, why has the President not ordered his arrest? He has all the machinery at his disposal to do so," the don said. He added Uhuru's threat to Joho is just hot air and will not be effected even if the head of state gets re-elected. "This is a person who has been elected by the masses. Fighting him is like fighting the electors. It always advisable to seize the attacks."