Recent events in our national politics have been nothing short of disheartening. Political violence and heckling have raised their ugly heads! No one has been spared, including President Uhuru Kenyatta, NASA’s Raila Odinga and DP William Ruto. Intolerance and thuggery are creeping into political campaigns. These are ominous signs of possible violence during the August presidential and general election. That our youth agreed to be recruited and misused to mete out violence and anarchy is a frightening indictment of the state of our nation. The institutions charged with managing and preventing lawlessness have been shy of bringing the culprits to book, which is a clear sign of political mischief by both sides of the political divide. This has the potential of fracturing Kenya down the middle. Our urgent plea to our countrymen and women is to embrace the words of the sage Evelyn Beatrice Hall, “I may not agree with what you have to say, but I will defend to death your right to say it.” A Nigerian proverb similarly states, let the hawk perch, the eagle perch and whoever says the other should not perch may he break his wing. Our large youth population in Kenya is viewed as a potential strength. With one of the youngest populations on earth coupled with a good education system, Kenya’s youth bulge “reinforces the opportunity for economic growth that is gaining attention and foreign investment - a reality that other emerging regional and global powers, including China, India, Brazil and Turkey have already begun to seize.” Every blessing, however, as they say, is a potential curse. Africa’s youth is also the most vulnerable segment of the population however, suffering from systemic poverty, lack of education, high unemployment rates and a high rate of disease. As a result, our political leaders have often used our youth for their own political agenda, exploiting them through the political process. It is this type of mentality that has created violence in recent elections. In the run-up to the August election, it is important that our youth openly reject manipulation and exploitation by our political leaders to suit their selfish ends. They must stand up and be counted as agents for peace and democracy. Youths must reason and act positively, rather than behave as auto-morons controlled by puppeteers (read politicians). The repeated manipulation and exploitation of youths by political leaders who come to them only when they need their votes and voices during campaigns must be rejected. The youth must also reject politicians who use them as political decorations—those who use them for ceremonial purposes as they put on T-shirts, stand by in the streets or gatherings gladly singing, clapping and dancing at an event whose purpose they hardly know but feel glad because of the new T-shirt and the little fare they will receive at the end. This is an insult to their intelligence and human dignity as they are used as chattels/zombies. Kenyan youth have in the past been deployed to harm, maim and even kill opponents during political campaigns. The 1992 and 1997 political clashes come to mind culminating in the disastrous 2007-08 post-election violence that caused the deaths of more than 1,200 Kenyans, maiming many more and displacing at least 600,000. One wonders whether we learnt anything from the experience. Respect for human rights and human dignity, equity, social justice, equality and equal opportunities, inclusiveness, non-discrimination and protection of the weak and marginalised are values to be inculcated and cherished. The biblical tenet of “love thy neighbour as thyself” holds eternally true. Law enforcement agencies, including the police, Office of the DPP, National Cohesion and Integration Commission and others, ought to be alert and remain vigilant for any persons out to foment any kind of violence, their status and position notwithstanding. There should be no sacred cows. Their swift and immediate arrest, prosecution/incarceration will serve to nip our season of political violence in the bud.