Funyula MP Paul Otuoma’s Busia governor bid suffered a massive blow on Thursday when his family endorsed Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong for another term. Otuoma’s uncle Ofafa Ojasi and Busia county assembly speaker Bernard Wamalwa said they will campaign for Ojaamong to deliver more than 25,000 votes from Funyula constituency. Otuoma is running as an independent after losing to the incumbent during the ODM primary. Ofafa said his nephew Otuoma will not win on August 8. “I’m Otuoma’s uncle and I brought him into politics together with Wamalwa and Timona. I’m not afraid to say he will fall like the Sigiri Bridge,” he said. The bridge connecting Bunyala North and South collapsed on June 26. The relatives spoke during Wamalwa’s thanksgiving ceremony at his Bukiri home. It was attended by Ojaamong and county First Lady Judy. “I asked my nephew his formula to win, but he had no convincing answer. Butula, which was his stronghold, has also fallen,” Ofafa said. He said he had told Otuoma to wait for 2022, but he refused. Wamalwa said he campaigned for Otuoma during the 2007 and 2013 polls when the MP sought his advice. “This time, he took a unilateral decision [to run as an independent] without consulting family members and constituents,” he said. “Ojaamong has done a lot for the Samia community, with 11 of 53 MCAs hailing from the subcounty. The community also has many staff in the executive committee and the assembly.” Wamalwa denounced as misleading propaganda by Team Otuoma that NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga did not endorse Ojaamong during his recent county tour. He said, “Raila said Ojaamong na mpira [Ojaamong with the ball]. In that commentary, the governor gave a killer pass for Raila to score. What does it mean to have a player in the first 11 when the other is on the bench?” Ojaamong thanked the people of Funyula for giving him 7,000 votes during the ODM nomination and urged them to triple their efforts on August 8. He pledged to work with Wamalwa, saying he was certain to win. “I’m determined to revive Mulwanda Ginnery, despite too much politics in it,” Ojaamong said. His administration has started distributing bursary cheques, he said. Nangina MCA John Obwogo said Otuoma is his mentor in politics, but he will not support his governor bid. “I’ll not succumb to threats while guarding Raila and Ojaamong’s votes in my ward,” he said.