SO, what exactly happened during the coronation of Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto as a Kipsigis elder at Bomet Green Stadium on Saturday? Rutto was crowned elder and spokesman, but even before the tide subsides over the ceremony's legitimacy, we are told the traditional skin known as &lsquo;sambut&rsquo; which Rutto wore fell down just after the elders had concluded their &lsquo;business&rsquo; in the full glare of the public - which included Raila Odinga. Some elders say it was a bad omen. Questions have emerged whether the team of elders were genuine Kipsigis Council of Elders reps. On Monday the Myoot Elders denounced the team, saying they did not represent them, neither had they sanctioned the coronation questioning why he sat in his official seat rather a the traditional three-legged stool.****STILL on matters to do with the politics of the South Rift, just days after NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga was in Bomet to campaign for Governor Rutto, who is seeking reelection on his Chama Cha Mashinani ticket, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are also expected this week to grace the manifesto launch by Jubilee governor candidate Joyce Laboso. Both campaigns, scheduled for tomorrow, are said to be show-of-might events between the two candidates on who really has the numbers and is likely to carry the day, come August 8.*****WHEN Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria appeared with Kalonzo Musyoka's son Kennedy to endorse the latter for East African Legislative Assembly nomination, tongues wagged in overdrive. Now word has it that Kuria was actually preparing the way for President Uhuru Kenyatta. This week, the President threw an offer to former Vice President and NASA deputy presidential candidate Kalonzo to join Jubilee in exchange for a 2022 deal. Pundits are saying Kuria's move to support Kalonzo's son was meant to test the waters and to defuse the notion that JP was against Kennedy.*****ARE there moles in Raila Odinga's presidential team? Sources whisper to Corridors that the former Prime Minister is increasingly concerned with persistent newspaper and social media leaks. Just after the launch of the NASA manifesto, the opposition chief and his co-principals are said to have held several meetings with his team. Among key concerns was the leakage of his strategy on vote protection and the adopt-a-polling stratagem. Raila is said to have particularly raised concern on how such key winning secrets could be leaked or shared before they were even sanctioned. Raila and his team of principals are said not to be amused when they realised a jubilee-leaning blogger published sensitive NASA operations.