Nurses in most counties have received payslips indicating they will be paid their full June salaries, but the money has not been sent to their bank accounts. However, those in Kiambu county will only be paid for the one-week they worked last month. &ldquo;We are waiting to see if our members will receive their salaries by the end of this week, failing which we will take the next course of action,&rdquo; Kenya National Union of Nurses&rsquo; deputy secretary general Maurice Opetu told the Star yesterday.The nurses have been on strike for four weeks now, demanding registration of their collective bargaining agreement.The deal was disowned by both the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Council of Governors.KNUN officials were wary their employers might employ the &lsquo;No Work, No Pay&rsquo; principle, which means employees are paid for carrying out work assigned to them. When this is not done, the employee is not paid any salary.It also means while it is the democratic right of workers to strike, this is not a right that they are paid to exercise.For two weeks, the Health ministry and the CoG have not issued any official communication regarding the strike. Opetu said the nurses&rsquo; union has not been invited for any talks with their employer for more than two weeks, frustrating negotiation efforts.He accused the governors of being insensitive to their plight. &ldquo;We are seeking implementation of a deal that was agreed upon collectively and despite seeking justice we are being oppressed by the employer. But this will not stop us from seeking what is ours,&rdquo; Opetu said.Conditions at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital worsened yesterday as senior nurses and ward managers joined the boycott.Nurses&rsquo; union chairman at the hospital Kennedy Orangi said most services have been dirupted at Moi hospital. He said they will not resume work until the CBA is implemented. The nurses accuse the SRC of frustrating their fight for a CBA.Recently, the CoG said it is waiting for a decision regarding a trade dispute they registered with the Labour ministry in June concerning the disputed draft CBA.The trade dispute states that the SRC had written to the County Public Service Boards that the financial items in the CBA were not supported by evidence of budgetary allocations as proof of affordability and sustainability. Opetu says the nurses want the government to sign the already negotiated CBA, and it be registered in court as agreed when they signed the return-to-work formula.