With the hard-fought election 33 days off, President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA challenger Raila Odinga are foraging for votes in each other&rsquo;s backyards, where they are not beloved.Yesterday, Uhuru was in Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s bastion of Machakos county, which voted overwhelmingly for Raila in 2013.Jubilee claims inroads, especially as Governor Alfred Mutua backs Kenyatta.Kalonzo is NASA&rsquo;s candidate for DP.Yesterday Raila camped in vote-rich Kiambu county, Kenyatta&rsquo;s home county and a Jubilee stronghold. He assured the Kikuyu community he is not the devil incarnate, as they have been warned repeatedly, he is not a dictator and he will make them safer, richer and happier. Raila also widened opposition inroads in Mt Kenya when the ODM chief welcomed 25 MCAs and aspiring MCAs &mdash; all Jubilee defectors.Kiambu has about 1.2 million registered voters, the second highest number after Nairobi.Today Raila campaigns in Jubilee&rsquo;s Kericho stronghold, trying to penetrate the vote-rich South Rift. In the next nine days, Uhuru will&nbsp;be landing in Raila&rsquo;s stronghold of Luo Nyanza to snare some votes. Though Uhuru, Raila and their strategist know they are not beloved in these regions, they must not appear to have sidelined some areas in their campaigns.That would only be grist for each other&rsquo;s propaganda mills. See, they are ignoring you now and will continue to do so after the polls &mdash;that will be the message. Opinion polls indicate Uhuru and Raila enjoy fanatical support in Central and Luo Nyanza, respectively.Yesterday, the President was asking the Machakos people to abandon the opposition and support Jubilee, which, he said is determined to bring meaningful development to ordinary people.Last Friday and Saturday, Kenyatta was in Kitui and Makueni, both Kamba land, which is considered Kalonzo territory.Kalonzo must deliver the Kamba vote to NASA if the opposition is to win. Many Kambas are disappointed and could be apathetic that Kalonzo is not the presidential candidate.So he must stir their passions, reassure them that NASA will help the community and he will be the flag bearer in 2022.But it is the President&rsquo;s big, goodie-laden July 13 and 14 tour of Luo Nyanza &mdash; the lion&rsquo;s den &mdash; that will make clear he is leaving nothing to chance. Th e trip had been planned for this Sunday but was pushed forward by the President&rsquo;s handlers.Kenyatta will launch state-funded development projects worth billions of shillings.Regional leaders have accused the head of state of ignoring the three counties of Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay. He will visit Migori and Homa Bay, not Kisumu.Th e IEBC says Kisumu has 539,210 voters, Migori 388,633 and Homa Bay 476,875.Uhuru will commission construction of the Sh1.5 billion Mbita Causeway Bridge and the Mbita-Sindo-Magunga road, tarmacking of the Ojijo-Oteko ring road in Karachuonyo constituency and the Kimira-Oluch irrigation scheme in Rangwe constituency.Rachuonyo MP James Rege, who is spearheading Kenyatta&rsquo;s campaign in Nyanza, the Jubilee presidential campaigns in Nyanza, yesterday confi rmed that the President will visit Homa Bay and Migori. Kisumu is not on the tour.&ldquo;We have done a lot of groundwork, the President will defi nitely get votes in this region based on the projects he initiated,&rdquo; Rege said.Homa Bay JP coordinator Odhiambo Mac&rsquo;Owiti asked the residents to welcome the President because the gifts he comes bearing&nbsp;will improve their livelihoods. Yesterday, Raila told Kikuyus in Kiambu, &ldquo;We must make Kenyans [understand] there are 43 different communities...none should feel inferior or superior to the others.&rdquo;&ldquo;As your President, I will ensure every Kenyan is safe. I will ensure national unity. I am not a dictator.&rdquo;The main protagonists will hold non-stop rallies this week, as polls showed the race is tightening in the homestretch. The President still&nbsp;maintains a clear lead. The Jubilee storm barreling through Raila strongholds has threatened important NASA turf that Jubilee is determined to turn into battlegrounds.The targets are Bungoma, Kisii, Nyamira, Kajiado, Narok, Samburu, Wajir, Isiolo and Machakos.NASA is trying to turn the tables on Jubilee in Meru and Tharaka Nithi, key strongholds of the President.Both Uhuru and Raila are pitching themselves as the strongest steward for the country plagued myriad corruption scandals, food shortage, insecurity and skyrocketing cost of living.An Infotrak poll released on Friday last week gave Uhuru 48 per cent and Raila 43 per cent popularity.But it also showed that eight per cent of 19.6 million eligible voters &mdash; more than 1.5 million &mdash;are undecided, opening up a fresh&nbsp;battleground for hearts and minds. Eight candidates are running for President. Despite the advantages of incumbency, Uhuru has not slackened his pace.But Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang&rsquo; asked Kenyatta to leave behind DP William Ruto behind when he visits Luo Nyanza.&ldquo;We are telling him to exclude Ruto during the visit,&rdquo; Kajwang&rsquo; said. Three per cent of Nyanza&rsquo;s total registered are undecided while a 18 per cent of the Western&rsquo;s combined 2.2 million voters are yet to make up their minds, Infotrak said.With polling showing a tighter race &mdash; and the majority of undecideds in Raila&rsquo;s Western stronghold &mdash; Uhuru on Monday dispatched Ruto to campaign in Bungoma for the fourth time in a month.There are only three per cent undecideds in Raila&rsquo;s Nyanza turf and only fi ve per cent in Uhuru&rsquo;s Central.On Friday, the Uhuru and Raila will come face to face during a church-arranged prayer service to mark Saba Saba Day at Uhuru Park,&nbsp;before resuming their punishing schedules. Th e day commemorates protesters who successfully pressed for multi-party democracy in 1990. JP will hold a rally in Turkana while Raila&rsquo;s team will be at Kamukunji grounds in Nairobi.Nairobi secretary Robert Ayisi said the Evangelical Alliance of Kenya booked the park for prayers and NASA and JP leaders were invited guests.