Joho is collateral damage in my war on graft, says Omar BY BRIAN OTIENO @Yobramos4                                Sunday, July 23, 2017 Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has said he has no personal differences with Governor Hassan Joho and that he is ‘collateral damage’ in his war against graft. Speaking during a massive Wiper rally at the Tononoka Ground on Sunday, Omar explained that Joho is usually caught in the crossfire in the war against corruption and bad governance. He said Wiper’s fight against corruption does not have specific people targeted. “But if in this fight, my brother Hassan Joho, you are offended, then you are simply collateral damage of a war that we must fight,” said Omar. Omar has been castigating Joho for his alleged poor leadership and for failing to stop graft in the count government. Joho has denied any wrongdoing arguing that he has been cleared by the relevant bodies over audit queries raised by the Auditor General Edward Ouko. The governor has avoided confrontation with Omar. In many occasions, his spokesperson Richard Chacha has stated that they do not reply to Omar’s constant attacks. On Sunday, Omar once again hit out at the Governor saying his attempt at evoking emotion will not help him get re-elected. Joho and President Uhuru and DP William Ruto have frequently engaged in a war of words over corruption, drugs, poor leadership and party politics. In some cases, the verbal wars have degenerated into name calling. Omar said insulting each other at public rallies is not heroism. “Heroism is bringing development to your people and to bring a difference in their lives,” the Senator said. “The situation in Mombasa is too serious for us to be carried away by emotions,” Omar said. He said ousting Joho will be a walk in the park. He said Mombasa residents will overwhelmingly vote Joho out the way Kenyans overwhelmingly voted out the Kanu regime in 2002. Omar declared that NASA will also oust Jubilee from power at the August 8 ballot. “I declared here in 1998, while I was a student leader, that (former President Daniel) Moi must go. I have returned here on July 23, 2017 to declare that Uhuru Kenyatta must go,” said Omar. He said Moi was like the stump of a Mugumo tree but still came down tumbling. “If we ousted (Former President) Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, what of Joho?” said Omar. Ends…  