The Jubilee administration is to blame for the failed take-off of the oil business in Turkana, Governor Josphat Nanok has said. Nanok said the trade has been marred by a myriad of challenges which have hampered amid high expectations by the public. "When the operations commenced, we expected the business to boom but it seems it has failed to take off," he said at the weekend. "This is solely the responsibility of the Jubilee administration which has failed to fully support the project." The Council of Governors chairman made the comments at Chepsirei in Elgeyo Marakwet during campaigns for the National Super Alliance on Saturday. Nanok noted insecurity and poor infrastructure are the main impediments to the sector. "The government promised to beef up security in the region but this is yet to be actualised," he said. "For any business to boom, investors have to be assured of the security of stakeholders in the industry." The Governor asked the national government to fulfill its pledge to construct Kainuk bridge and roads. "When the NASA government takes over, it will bolster the economy," he said, adding the government has been unwilling to implement laws on how oil proceeds will be shared with the community. "There is an urgent need for the government to handle the revenues issue with care and due diligence. This will prevent conflicts related to the sharing of national resources." The oil sharing revenue row featured when the governor and President Uhuru Kenyatta engaged in a public spat during a function in the county. In March, Uhuru dismissed claims he has interests in the county's oil saying no one should lie to Kenyans. "Mtu akisimama hapa aseme ati Uhuru ako na haja na mafuta ya wengine...ashindwe..shetani mshenzi (If someone comes here and says Uhuru has interests in others' oil, he should be defeated..devil...fool)..." he said. More on this: [AUDIO] Uhuru calls Nanok a foolish devil for raising queries on oil wealth Also read: I do not regret 'devil' spat with Uhuru - Nanok    