Three presidential candidates yesterday criticised Jubilee and NASA rivals for perpetrating tribalism and corruption and asked voters to reject them on August 8. The candidates — Ekuru Aukot (Third Way Alliance), independents Japheth Kaluyu and Michael Wainaina — said NASA leader Raila Odinga and JP’s Uhuru Kenyatta cannot end corruption, tribalism and the problems facing the nation because they are contributors. Candidates Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party), Abduba Dida (Alliance for Real Change) and Joseph Nyaga (Independent) snubbed the debate. “Kenya needs a no-nonsense leader. We don’t want a Chief Executive Officer of the country who throws his hands in the air and says ‘What should I do?’ when confronted with accountability questions. We have had a leadership that tolerates bad manners, including tribalism,” Aukot said. He said the country has the best laws and institutions to fight corruption, but lack of political goodwill has impeded the war on graft. Aukot expressed concern that “we sanitise corruption, instead of bringing perpetrators to book”. The candidates agreed that problems facing the country can only be brought to an end by Kenyans by rejecting NASA and Jubilee leaders, “who thrive politically on negative ethnicity”. “We should get rid of political kingpins in Jubilee and NASA for mobilising people around tribalism. Leadership is inclusion and others look at it as tribalism. I want 70 per cent of the youth and 50 per cent of women to be included in leadership,” Wainaina said. He added that politics of ethnicity, impunity and mediocrity by leaders involved in mega scandals has contributed to Kenya’s problems. Kaluyu said if elected, he would ensure every Kenyan, regardless of their tribe, is equally involved in nation-building. They highlighted mega plans to bring back the country on the growth path based on their manifestos, which cover education, poverty eradication, health, infrastructure, protection of environment and zero-telerance to corruption. “Corruption started in 1963 when land meant to settle IDPs was stolen by powerful individuals in government,” Aukot said. They promised to revolutionise education by introducing reforms that will ensure public schools offer quality education. Wainaina promised to modernise and professionalise schools by ensuring teachers are well paid and the public schools improved. “Even if you change the education curriculum frequently and you don’t modernise the teaching profession, standards will never improve in this country. The problem is not curriculum, but how we teach,” he said. The trio pledged to conserve wildlife by fighting poaching and protecting parks from landgrabbers. Aukot said his administration will “severely punish landgrabbers who encroachon national parks”. “I will invest in maintenance of our parks and fight poaching because the vice has, over the years, gone unpunished in this country,” he said. Wainaina said: “If you take care of the people, the people will take care of wildlife.” The said individuals in the Jubilee administration have benefitted from numerous problems facing the country and it does not deserve another five years. “Corruption remains our biggest challenge because the beneficiaries are highly placed in government,” Kaluyu said. 