NASA has appointed Senator James Orengo as the its chief agent for the August 8 election. The alliance said on Friday that Orengo, who is also defending his Senate seat, will be deputised by NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya. Magaya, a lawyer, will also serve as the alternate chief agent in the epic presidential contest, which is projected to be a tight race between Jubilee candidate Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. In a statement by Joe Ager, the Head of Operations and Delivery at the NASA Campaign Secretariat, said the alliance has submitted the names of Orengo and Magaya to the IEBC for accreditation. Ager added that the early appointment of Senator Orengo as the NASA chief agent represented a critical part of the overall state of preparedness for the presidential election. He said the appointments of constituency and polling station agents are also at an advanced stage. As the chief agent, Orengo will be the contact person between the IEBC and NASA candidate Raila Odinga in the run-up to the polls and on Election Day. Orengo, a senior counsel, will be tasked with the responsibility of monitoring the declaration of presidential results at the national tallying centre at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi. Raila and the NASA team will be required to raise any issues they have through the Siaya legislator. At the 2013 polls, the announcement and declaration of presidential results were riddled with drama. At one point, security officers threw out Cord chief agents before the presidential results were declared. The officers then surrounded the IEBC commissioners, as the results were announced. Having lawyers as NASA chief agents is seen as a strategy to boost vigilance. Agents will be required to scrutinise presidential results declaration forms and make sure the tallies are the same as those announced at the constituencies before appending their signatures. “The coalition is ready for the August 8 election, which NASA expects to win by a large margin. It will be futile for Jubilee to try and rig the process,” Ager said. “I urge all NASA polling agents, constituency polling agents and supporters in general to be prepared to turn out with one accord on 8 August. “Vote in force, meticulously protect the vote and deliver a resounding victory in order to deliver Kenya from the stifling misrule of Jubilee.”