Sheil Kotecha advanced to the quarter-finals of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Nairobi Junior Championships after seeing off Saudi Arabia&rsquo;s Faisal Alrebdi 6-0, 6-2 yesterday at Nairobi Club. Kotecha bullied his opponent from the word go as he broke his serve to race a to a 2-0 lead. Kotecha continued to pile on the points as he ran away with the set with little resistance from his opponent. Kotecha&rsquo;s good form continued into the second set, winning the opener with Alrebdi fighting back to tie the match at 1-1. Kotecha rallied to win the next two games for a 3-1 lead before the Saudi clinched the fifth game to reduce the margin to 3-2. After the game, Kotecha said: &ldquo;I worked smart today, punishing every single mistake he did. He came back stronger in the second half and I had to fight harder for a win. The experience I gained from the Kenya Open favoured me throughout and I am happy to have conceded fewer games,&rdquo; added Kotecha.The win for Kotecha saw him set a date in quarters with Abdullah Barwani of Oman, who edged out Ethiopian Abdella Nedim 6-3, 6-1. In the girls category, Gabon&rsquo;s Celestine Avomo showed no mercy for Maanya Viswanath of India, beating her 6-2, 6-4 to sail to the quarters.The Gabonese dominated the match but her poor reception of serves worked against her, gifting the Indian games in either sets. She, however, pressed for a win to set a date in the quarters with Sarra Ata of Tunisia, who saw off Julie Bousseau of France 6-4, 6-3. Avomo said: &ldquo; I was prepared for the game though I had a slight knock. I scattered my returns but I will work on it. I really want to win this circuit to improve my ranking as well as keep myself in good form.&rdquo; In other matches played, Sneha Kotecha bowed out of the competition after succumbing 6-1 6-4 to Mavie Osterrechier of Australia. Aisha Niyonkuru ofBurundi beat Anya Gunewardena of Syria 6-3,6-2 to sail to the quarters. The winner of the championships will amass 30 points.