Four years ago, at election time, I wrote an article entitled “Time to slay the ‘us’ and ‘them’ monster” and once again, in this election the same narrative is operational. At the writing of the said article, we held our collective national breath for this was the election that followed the infamous 2007 one where blood actually did flow. Its election time again. And all of us are holding our breaths again hoping and praying that the elections in a fortnight will be safe for us, our loved ones and our property. Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov, who developed the classical conditioning theory, is famous for demonstrating how learning can be facilitated by pairing a biological stimulus with a neutral non-biological one. In his experiment, he rang a bell prior to providing food to dogs and observed them salivating. After a while, dogs who initially salivated (biological stimulus) at the sight and smell of food, salivated only at the ringing of the bell (neutral stimulus) even without the food. Thus, the dogs subconsciously associated the ringing of the bell with provision of food. Pavlov also noted conditioning happened faster the shorter the period between the two stimuli; the ringing of the bell and the provision of food. What does Pavlov have to do with our elections? From 2007, we learned that the stimulus “we have won” (biologically casting the vote) and “elections are stolen” (the neutral stimulus) is followed by flow of blood. According to Pavlov, if we listen to the narrative that elections are stolen long enough and close enough to the voting day, then blood will flow, even without us casting the vote. This is like salivating without the sight and smell of food. In this election season, we have heard that “our” team already has 10 million of the 19 million registered votes. The Issack Hassan-led IEBC is gone for we were told that Kenyans had lost confidence in that team. The Wafula Chebukati-led IEBC is in place, and doubts and aspersions have been cast on its readiness and neutrality to referee this election. So according to Pavlov, we are conditioned. Whether we cast our votes or not, if Chebukati does not announce “our” 10 million, then surely votes were stolen and, according to prominent economist David Ndii, blood will flow. To interrogate and apply the Pavlov postulate, we should re-examine who “us” is. A Somali proverb says: “Me and my clan against the world, me and my family against my clan, me and my brother against my family me against my brother”. So the proverb insinuates that “us” is relative and could be my tribeman, clansman, classmate, neighbour or other persons, depending on who the “them” is. In Kenya, politicians have told us that “us” is tribesmen. Recently, this was negated by a comment of a Luo woman, who together with her Kikuyu and Luhya neighbours struggle together to get work to wash clothes at Sh50 and later buy water at Sh20 per jerrycan. The Kikuyu woman noted that it is her Luo neighbour to whom she entrusted her children when she was admitted in hospital for 8 days. The Luhya friend visited and brought her a flask full of tea every day she was in hospital. In this case, the “us” are the neighbours and has nothing to do with tribesmen. I submit that we, as a nation, are trending on a dangerous ground close to the precipice, and must at all costs avoid falling over the edge. All must play their role. Politicians should refrain from boxing us into tribal cocoons for their personal gain. The IEBC should be faithful to the Constitution, and ensure they operate in a manner that elicits confidence in the electoral process. But even more importantly, all Kenyans of good will must reject the conditioning that these election will result in violence. We must be clear that the “us” are people with who we share physical environment such as our neighbours, workmates or classmates and not politicians of our tribe. If this is in doubt, let’s remember that we often observe them, the political “us” group, as they wine and dine together irrespective of tribe. We recently saw this camaraderie in funerals as they sent off members of their “us” group. Finally, let’s remember that the election will come and go, and we will remain. Actually, whoever we elect should not really make a difference! If you so doubt, check the manifestos of the parties and candidates — they are all the same. Kenya will be a better place for if we vote them in, we will have water, healthcare, education and jobs for all. So really, should it really matter whom we elect?  Prof Mutugi is the deputy vice-chancellor incharge of Planning, Research and Development at the University of Kabianga 