August 8 should be a day of enormous pride for all Kenyans, regardless of their political affiliation. Some 19.6 million Kenyans will exercise their civic duty and cast their votes. In doing so, they will be reaffirming our national sovereignty, deciding on ourselves who we want as our leaders.That moment at the ballot box is the moment that defines our democracy. On Election Day, we realise that we are all equal: From the richest Kenyan to the most impoverished, each has one vote, which cumulatively decides who becomes our President and leader. But this could be under threat, if proposals in NASA’s manifesto are allowed to pass. The blueprint unveiled by Raila Odinga and his NASA co-principals, was delivered with much fanfare. But beneath the glitz and glamour lies a manifesto that calls for a total change of government, as we know it. And let’s be clear. It is an entirely unnecessary change, only wholly self-serving. It envisages Raila as President and Kalonzo Musyoka as his deputy, as expected but beyond that, NASA is proposing nothing more than a naked reward system for the remaining ‘Pentagon’ members. A constitutional change would see Musalia Mudavadi take the reins as the Premier Cabinet Secretary in gratitude for the support of his ANC. Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula would be given the prize of serving as Mudavadi’s deputies, thanks to the patronage of Chama Cha Mashinani and Ford Kenya, respectively. It is unclear what the responsibilities of Mudavadi, Ruto and Wetang’ula will be, beyond vague oversight of Cabinet Secretaries already in place. But the titles and prestige will no doubt satisfy their egos. The most likely outcome of this convoluted arrangement is a recipe for rivalry and chaos. Mudavadi will surely look to challenge Kalonzo’s authority, while Rutto and Wetang’ula will jostle for position as Mudavadi’s favourite. What is even clearer is that this arrangement is no coincidence — the new government hierarchy will deliberately consist of five positions at the very top to accommodate the five NASA principals. In essence, NASA is planning to use the Constitution as a plaything in a game of political brokerage. But this is nothing in comparison to the other huge constitutional change proposed in the NASA manifesto. The opposition plans to entirely do away with presidential elections. It is a proposal that will have enormous implications, undermining our democracy. According to NASA, the current one person-one-vote system, in which the President’s legitimacy lies entirely on the people, encourages exclusivity. Maybe someone should tell Raila that this is precisely the point of democracy. The presidency should be the most exclusive office in the country. The presidential election is a popularity contest – It is called the will of the people. If the people do not entrust the President, then he or she has no right to govern, and maybe this is what worries Raila. Is he concerned that he might win and then lose public confidence? Is he looking for a way to retain office no matter what? If we had clear answers on NASA’s alternative system, perhaps it would allay such fears. But incredibly, the opposition coalition proposes no other system. The manifesto vaguely suggests a “hybrid parliamentary system” without providing any detail whatsoever. In other words, NASA is suggesting we dump our one person-one vote system, and place blind trust that Raila and his cohorts will do what’s best for us all. Yeah right, of course they will. Based on the proposed re-organisation of government, it is clear Kenyans can only trust NASA’s leaders to do what is best for themselves. NASA can be relied upon to take the weighty step of changing the Constitution if it serves their interests. Raila wants us to gamble our democracy away to a group of politicians with no track record of delivering to the people. He wants us to believe that his coalition can be relied upon to re-shape the democracy, which is the lifeblood of our country. NASA expects that we, the Kenyan people, will rip up the contract between the President and the people. They expect that we will consent to endangering the very future of our democracy. And in doing so, they presume we will open the door to an unidentifiable alternative. Whatever it is, the alternative is by definition, something other than the democracy in which we trust. It will likely generate a great deal of instability, and you can be sure that it will cement NASA’s intended grip on power. On August 8, the Kenyan people must show Raila that we will not allow such an outcome.