The latest presidential opinion polling results before the August 8 General Election reported by Ipsos and Infotrak placed President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA supremo Raila Odinga in a dead heat. Ipsos had Uhuru ahead at 47 per cent to Raila’s 43 per cent and Infotrak announced the former Prime Minister at 47 per cent to Uhuru’s 43 per cent. This divergence of results underpinned by the concurrence that the President and his challenger are actually in a dead heat struck a number of analysts as questionable. Macharia Gaitho, writing in the Daily Nation on Tuesday under the headline “Why opinion poll results are questionable”, commented, “While the Zogby survey could be dismissed because it was paid for and publicised by the NASA campaign, the Infotrak one should attract attention as the first poll in the run-upto [the election] to place Mr Odinga ahead of President Kenyatta.” Gaitho patently disbelieves Infotrak chief executive officer’s Angela Ambitho’s explanation of Raila’s dramatic surge of four percentage points to overtake Uhuru. Ambitho argued, “More people have decided. NASA had more ‘undecided’ in their strongholds than Jubilee did”.  THE COUNTIES, NOT THE DEFUNCT PROVINCES, ARE WHAT COUNTS NOW There is an inescapable factor that has been brought to the fore by the divergence between Ipsos and Infotrak: Any opinion polling of Kenyans on the question of the race for State House needs to be done according to the counties, not the now-defunct provincial boundaries. And it must poll individuals indigenous to particular counties, not, for instance, a Kikuyu who resides in Bungoma or a Bukusu who resides in Nyeri. Under devolution, pollsters need to go to the extent of asking respondents where they come from: Context is everything. There is a reason that the Kuria vote differently from the Luo despite the fact that they are both from Nyanza. Having arrived at the conclusion that the August 8 presidential context is a two-horse race that is currently in a neck-by-neck dead heat, the pollsters will need to focus their attentions on the decisive factor of turnout, i.e. how the winner will pull ahead of the loser and establish a lead, from narrow to commanding. An interesting factor of what happens next is, for instance, that President Uhuru would win by 52% if JP maintains its 2013 performance, an even wider margin than four-and-a-half years ago. A careful look at the Infotrak poll shows the pollster visited the following 13 NASA-leaning counties – Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa, Taita Taveta, Kitui, Machakos, Makueni, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Homa Bay, Kisii and Kisumu. Infotrack visited the following nine Jubilee leaning counties – Embu, Meru, Kiambu, Nyeri, Baringo, Bomet, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu and Murang’a. Infotrak left out the following NASA-compliant counties – Siaya, Migori, Nyamira, Vihiga. And they left out the following Jubilee-compliant counties – West Pokot, Nandi, Laikipia, Kericho, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nyandarua, Kirinyagaand Tharaka-Nithi. The swing states in this case are Samburu, Isiolo and Tana River, Lamu. What does this mean? It means that Infotrak over-sampled NASA by four counties, rendering their poll biased.  STUDY THE SWING VOTES, THE STRONGHOLDS AREN’T GOING ANYWHERE The major pollsters would do well to study the so-called swing vote blocs more than the strongholds of either side. The strongholds aren’t going anywhere, whoever the final winner. But the swing vote blocs are in ferment and contain the bulk of the undecided. The Jubilee strongholds are Baringo, Bomet, Elgeyo Marakwet, Embu, Kericho, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Meru, Murang’a, Nakuru, Nandi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Tharaka-Nithi, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot. Based on the IEBC’s latest register, there are 7.41 million voters in these counties. The NASA strongholds are Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kilifi, Kisumu, Kitui, Kwale, Lamu, Machakos, Makueni, Migori, Mombasa, Siaya, Taita Taveta, Tana River and Vihiga counties. Based on the IEBC’s latest updated figures, these counties have 7.02 million registered voters. The following are the battleground counties: Nairobi, Kajiado, Narok, Kisii, Nyamira, Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo, Turkana, Samburu and Trans Nzoia. According to the IEBC, they have 5.1 million registered voters. SHIFTS AND UNDERLYING TENSIONS The local dynamics in every county have dramatically changed over the past four-and-a-half years. The main reasons for these shifts are the changing demographics of the voting population, who are younger, more youthful, more open-minded and more development-conscious than ever before. Accurate mapping is now done by the counties, not by the old provinces. The latter no longer exist in the era of devolution and the Constitution of Kenya 2010. The new regions are the counties. To reiterate, the key thing to grasp and proceed from is that the electoral map has changed dramatically since the 11th General Election of March 2013. The new regions are the counties. Trends since 2013 show that Jubilee and NASA have an equal number of stronghold counties – 17 each. The remaining 13 counties are now considered battleground counties. These counties have received the most attention from both the Jubilee and NASA strategists and campaigners. As at March 2017, the JP strongholds were Baringo, Bomet, Elgeyo/Marakwet, Embu, Kericho, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Meru, Murang’a, Nakuru, Nandi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Tharaka-Nithi, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot counties. In March, the NASA strongholds were Bungoma, Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kilifi, Kisumu, Kitui, Kwale, Lamu, Machakos, Makueni, Migori, Mombasa, Siaya, Taita Taveta, Tana River and Vihiga counties.  COUNTY DYNAMICS HAVE CHANGED The local dynamics within each of the 47 counties have changed over the last four-and-a-half years. The demographics of the voting population have changed, becoming more youthful, more open-minded and more development-conscious. Delivery of development projects has cut across all the counties in Kenya. This has helped the Kenyan electorate to gradually becoming more issue-focused. In addition, both Jubilee and NASA have been making inroads into each other’s perceived traditional strongholds. These forays have also changed the electoral map, resulting in a situation where the 2013 returns cannot be wholly relied upon. These changing dynamics have resulted in the mapping of battleground or swing counties. From where JP is standing, Kisii is on the move; the Somali communities have moved; Lamu, Tana River and Taita Taveta are already considerably with JP.  THE BATTLEGROUND COUNTIES A key indicator of this is the enormous focus both campaigns have placed on key counties. An analysis of their campaign visits reveals that both campaign teams have focused primarily on 13 counties. This analysis reveals that there are 13 battleground counties. Both Jubilee and NASA are hoping to ‘flip’ these counties in their favour and claim them as their own. Based on the observable trends on the ground, Jubilee has no counties at risk; NASA has 3 counties at considerable risk of flipping. After the second and final Mass Voter Registration (MVR II), a quick comparison of the respective strongholds shows that Jubilee is starting off with more than 400,000 votes ahead of NASA. These voter registration statistics reveal that Jubilee run a more effective voter mobilisation exercise than NASA. These numbers also suggest that there are higher levels of apathy in NASA strongholds than in Jubilee strongholds. Since MVR II, Uhuru and Ruto have campaigned aggressively – running high octane, energetic serial campaign tours. The two have also delivered a very compelling, development-oriented message, backed by an impressive, credible track record. NASA’s campaign messaging has tended to fall back on old prescriptions. It relies heavily on political rhetoric, which is divisive and unappealing – particularly to the large majority of youth who remain undecided. NASA’s anti-election message is also increasingly being rejected on the ground, whereas Jubilee’s stand – that of protecting the election date – is viewed a lot more favourably by a large cross section of the public. The credible, objective pollsters who will begin to show Uhuru maintain and even pull away from Raila, or vice versa, will be in a position to call the August 8 election.     