On Friday, June 23, the Court of Appeal ruled that presidential results announced by the constituency returning officer will be final and not subject to alteration.In an election year, party primaries serve the twin purposes of sieving prospective elective office holders and authenticating their nomination to run for office. They also serve as a litmus preamble for showcasing the ideals of democracy. Can we rightly claim that the primaries gave us the right candidates or that the process itself was a laudable attestation of purist democratic principles by our political parties?Remember how during the primaries some returning officers announced sham poll outcomes and promptly vanished? Does anyone recall how pitiable Samuel Kivuitu looked in 2007 at the KICC as he waited in vain for results from CROs who had all but disappeared?My point is that the appellate judges erred grievously in resting the finality of results for the presidential ballots in the hands of the 290 CROs. How, pray, would we remedy a case where a CRO announces results prematurely before one or two polling stations transmit their results as happened in Homa Bay during the governor primary?Was the appellate bench saying in effect that should there be a proven error of omission or commission by a CRO, it would still be only the selfsame CRO who can correct it? What happens if after the CRO&rsquo;s announcement, a hawk-eyed agent presents a numerically sound variation or evidentially foolproof falsity regarding the announcement?The Elections Act defines the IEBC chief as the Presidential Returning Officer. In delivering its judgment, did the appellate bench forget to redefine Wafula Chebukati&rsquo;s role? The judges ought to have ventilated the role-definition of the title &lsquo;Presidential Returning Officer&rsquo;. Short of that, what it did was to delegitimise the constitutionally abrogated role of the IEBC chairman.It was not difficult to miss the grunts of glee emanating from the NASA end of the electoral boxing ring. But at the end, was the Friday ruling worth celebrating? The general argument by NASA politicians and the media is that this is indeed a significant step towards eradicating rigging. From where I sit, however, methinks this ruling instead opens the doors wider for rig-masters to perfect their trade.In my reading of history, I have come to two conclusions. First, is the grudging acceptance of the old adage that &lsquo;every human being has a price&rsquo;. Secondly, finding a human being whose ethos matches the standards of Caesar&rsquo;s wife is like searching for a virgin on Koinange Street.As it is, therefore, all a free-spending politician needs is to put aside Sh1.5 billion then identify at least 150 CROs evenly spread across half of our 47 counties, and sort them out accordingly. Thereafter, the announcements will come thick and fast in his favour after which the CROs will promptly retire in the Maldives.The only upside of the ruling for the IEBC chairman is that he can enjoy elemental sleep in the safe knowledge that the ruling clearly frees him from any form of legal culpability whatsoever for botched presidential poll results.None of the aggrieved presidential candidates will have any beef with him. Instead, what the ruling does is to declare that any presidential candidate who intends to go to court must then separately sue each one of the CROs he deems to have erred in terminating his presidential bid.For the decidedly mischievous CROs amongst the 290, here is the plan: Take the Sh100 million, fly out your family (including your grandmother) to a country whose name we can&rsquo;t pronounce (like Kyrgystan or Tajikistan) late in July. For yourself, buy a ticket dated August 8, 2017, for a midnight flight to the remotest corner of Timbuktu or East Timor, where cell phones do not function.Prepared thus, you may then pre-type a signed final declaration of presidential results in favour of your benefactor, which you shall boldly announce in front of cameras by 8pm on August 8. Thereafter, feign diarrhoea and rush out to the waiting getaway Toyota Probox hired from the miraa drivers of the Meru-Nkubu road. Any form of legal action will be rendered nugatory because you cannot be found (hence a mistrial) and because your man will be the President (a relative degree of insulation).