It has to be of concern for the Jubilee Party, as the incumbent, when polls show, less than 40 days to the election, that you lead your opponent by only five points. Of concern because, a few weeks before NASA announced their Presidential flagbearer, the incumbents preferred Raila Odinga, arguing that they need not reinvent the wheel.The Infotrak survey released yesterday puts President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party at 48 per cent, while his main rival Raila Odinga, of the National Super Alliance (NASA), has a popularity score of 43 per cent.Political aspirants can dismiss opinion polls in public, but, in private, they will go back to the drawing board. What has largely happened in Kenya in these polls has been the consistency in different credible polling agencies, using different data collection mechanisms and getting results that are statistically the same.These results will have an influence on conversations on the Presidential debate and whether fringe candidates should take part. No doubt that discrimination is illegal &ndash; the Elections Act stipulates that all candidates must be given equal opportunities. The decision of the majority should consider the voice of the minority.Certainly, by today, most voters have already decided who they are voting for. In fact, the polls say eight percent are undecided. It is in these debates that the eight will decide, a significant percentage any serious candidate would want. Actually, if the eight go to either Uhuru or Raila, that candidate will win.What should worry Raila is the 18 percent undecided in Western Kenya. The Luhya luminaries Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi have to prove their worth as NASA partners. But this is neither new nor unexpected. The Jubilee government has made significant inroads in Bungoma County and this would be reflected in such a poll.The polls should be seen from the larger context of the situation on the ground. Jubilee came to power with a promise of mega projects coupled with soft mwananchi goodies that appeased voters. The fear-mongering on the ICC galvanised their numbers.More importantly, Raila should work the hardest. Voter turnout in his strongholds cannot be compared to Uhuru&rsquo;s. Uhuru can afford to just seek 30 per cent or less in all parts of the country, knowing well he has at least 93 per cent in his strongholds. Raila can&rsquo;t boast of this. Khamadi is a policy and governance expert