IEBC has dispatched over 20,000 BVR kits across the country for the August 8 election, it announced yesterday. Speaking in Nairobi, the commission’s ICT manager Chris Mando said IEBC deployed the kits last week and would dispatch the final set this week before it conducts mock results transmission on July 31. The Elections Act of 2011 requires the commission to deploy an Integrated Elections Management Systems for voter registration, voter identification and results transmission. Msando defended the system, saying they have tested the kits’ effectiveness and sealed possible loopholes . According to Msando the system will have two simcards to tackle any failure of networks that might arise. According to the Communication Authority 94.4 percent of Kenya’s population has network coverage of 2G which supports voice data, 78 percent has 3G network coverage which can support both voice and sending of data. However, to send huge data the commission would require 3G and 4G. “The system is designed in a manner that it picks the strongest network that is available in the region it is operating and this will involve all network providers whom we have been having talks with,” Msando said. He added that data from areas with poor network coverage would be transmitted with a satellite aide after the commission revealed it had acquired them. Kenya Integrated Management System The integrated election management system will comprise of Biometric Voter Registration, Candidate Registration Management System (CRMS), Electronic Voter Identification (EVI) and Election Result Transmission System (ERTS). The Kiems device will use bulk SD cards in storage of the data as it will be recorded on polling stations. According to the IEBC ICT manager the device has been designed to lock out any fishy activities including rejecting transmission of results more than voter turnout. The device will further be locked to a particular polling station. “The system will record data at the end of the day including the voter turn out, number of those identified on bvr and nobody can transmit votes more than the registered number of voters registered,” Msando said.