Leaders in the North Rift and residents of Chebior village in Keiyo South yesterday described departed former minister Nicholas Biwott as a key political and social pillar. The once powerful minister in the Moi regime, who died on Tuesday was the leader of the National Vision Party. Mourners, friends and relatives visited Chebior village and also Biwott’s Kipsinende farm to condole the family. His burial site has not been decided. Sources said the veteran politician may be laid to rest at Chebior near his parents’ graves or at Kipsinende farm. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, his Elgeyo-Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui said Biwott’s death was a great loss. “He was a good man, and we in Keiyo South where he served as MP, are saddened by his death,” said Kiptanui. Total Man served as the Kerio South MP for 28 uninterrupted years until he lost to Kiptanui in the 2007 poll. Chairman of Kalenjin Elders Council Major (rtd) John Seii said they have lost a leader who who defined the community’s history. “Although we know he has been ailing, we are saddened by his death,” Seii said. Former Environment minister John Sambu said he knew Biwott as a dedicated minister when they served together in the Cabinet. “His death is a blow not only to his family but to all of us who knew and worked with him,” Sambu said. Murkomen said Biwott had left a big legacy as a leader who cherished development. “He was not only the cornerstone of retired President Moi’s regime, but a real Total Man with an unrivaled record. He was a reserved man who talked little, but did many things yet he never wanted to speak about himself,” Murkomen said. Biwott’s death is a blow to his second wife Professor Margaret Kamar, who is vying for the Uasin Gishu Senate seat on the Jubilee ticket. Staff at her campaign secretariat were thrown into mourning following the news of his death. At his 3,000 acres Kipsinende farm along the Kaptagat road, his gateman Sammy Etir broke down in tears when he learnt of Biwott’s death. “I have been here as a security man for 10 years. He was a very good man. I am saddened that he is dead,” Etir said. Biwott had employed more than 70 people on the farm. Relatives at his father’s home at Kaptarakwa said they were shocked by his death. Murkomen visited the home near Maria Sotti High School and a tea estate which he owned. Biwott also owned business premises in Eldoret town.