Raila Odinga has assured the Kikuyu community that they will be more secure and happier under his presidency. The NASA chief, who tours Kiambu county on Tuesday, said he will defend everyone's rights once he takes over from President Uhuru Kenyatta after the August 8 general election.Kiambu is Uhuru's home turf.&nbsp; "We must make Kenyans [understand] there are 43 different communities...none should&nbsp;feel inferior or superior to the other," Raila said. More on campaigns:&nbsp;It's 45 million vs 10 million-strongAlso read:&nbsp;Why Raila&rsquo;s &ldquo;10 million strong&rdquo; is dangerous and undemocraticSpeaking in Nairobi on&nbsp;Tuesday, the Opposition leader said he will also ensure the construction of roads in Kiambu and other neglected areas when he becomes president. "As your president, I will ensure every Kenyan is safe. I will ensure national unity. I am not a dictator." The ODM leader further announced that the National Super Alliance will encourage women's chamas and coffee and tea farming."We will improve and expand&nbsp; Githunguri Dairy FCS therefore employ more young people," he said.&nbsp;He noted that "other than agriculture, the people of Kiambu are known for their business acumen and entrepreneurial spirit". Regarding alcoholism, Raila said it is not enough to destroy drinking dens as the root problem is what should be addressed. "It's not enough to destroy the dens and leave people despondent. We must address the cause, not the symptom," he said. Read: Uhuru backyard leads in alcohol use in Kiambu Also read: Canaan and chang'aa do not mix, Ruto tells Raila The presidential candidate's&nbsp;visit comes just days after Jubilee brigade toured the county to secure their votes. Kiambu has more than 1.1 million registered voters, second after Nairobi's 2.2 million.On Monday, the Opposition&rsquo;s interminable attempts to make inroads in Mt Kenya got a boost after Raila received 25 MCAs and aspiring MCAs from Kiambu.Raila said NASA aims to send home &ldquo;the inefficient, incompetent and corrupt Jubilee regime&rdquo; in the August polls.He has been making forays in perceived Jubilee strongholds, a deviation from his earlier style of concentrating on his support bases. Read:&nbsp;Raila receives 13 Kiambu defectors ahead of NASA tour&nbsp;