NASA's plan to instal a computer server in Tanzania to store its vote tally promises to kick up a diplomatic storm between Kenya and its neighbour. Kenya is expected to lodge a formal complaint with Tanzania this week. Fearful of rigging, the opposition has said several times it will set up a backup technical system in Tanzania. The status of installation was unclear. There is another backup system in Germany. Tanzanian President John Magufuli is friends with NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga, however, yesterday Tanzania emphatically distanced itself from the NASA server. It rejected reports it intends to interfere in Kenya's General Election on August 8, 13 days off. Government spokesman Dr Hassan Abbas called "baseless” reports in some dailies linking his country with attempts to meddle in Kenyan polls. In the Msemaji was Serikali Twitter update yesterday, Abbas said Tanzanians have always embraced peace and will promote regional peace. “The attempt to link the peace-loving government of Tanzania with involvement in neighbours' elections is a mistake beyond reality,” he tweeted. Kenya is said to be preparing an official demand to Tanzania not to allow Raila's team to set up the server that would store results. Multiple sources tell the Star the Jubilee government will seek Magufuli's commitment that his country will not be used to undermine Kenya's democratic process, especially the presidential election outcome. Jubilee will also request investigation into claims some Tanzanians from border areas of Mbeya and Serare registered as Kenyan voters to support the opposition. "There are a lot of concerns on why a friendly neighbour would actually allow the setting up of servers by one of the political players in its country. Talks are at the highest level to lodge a formal complaint this week," a senior Foreign ministry official said. The IEBC says presidential candidates are free to set up tallying centres as long as they do not publicly announce results. Raila and Magufuli are close and have attended each other's political functions. Raila and his family also spent a week in Magufuli's rural home, underscoring their friendship. Yesterday Raila said there was nothing wrong with anyone setting up a server anywhere in the world. "Jubilee has a plan to rig the elections and would rather have us set up our system [in Kenya] where they can access easily so they can destroy them," Raila told Radio Jambo in an interview. "This is just panic. Why is one bothered whether there is tallying in Tanzania or not? If IEBC is going to announce the proper results, why should one be worried or in a panic like Jubilee? Unless they intend to rig". Raila said people should not be shocked at his friendship with Magufuli, as he is friends with many African leaders. The Star has established that what NASA plans to setting up in Tanzania is not a tallying centre, but rather the main server of its system. The command center is at Senator Johnson Muthama's Runda home. It has a full 24-hour call centre linking main agents in each polling station. The presidential tallying centre is on Rhapta Road, Westlands, where results will be monitored by Muthama and key members of the presidential campaign team. A mini tallying centre is at Raila's Karen home where he and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka will follow the streaming of results. Jubilee leaders say NASA intends to use the server in Tanzania to tally and proclaim Raila the winner. Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot said last week, "I am worried about NASA’s plans to set up a parallel tallying centre in Tanzania. It offends our Constitution and undermines our sovereignty." Jubilee itself has set up a parallel presidential vote tallying center and two command centers in Nairobi to seal all possible rigging loopholes. The state-of-the-art national center at JP headquarters will be parallel to that of the IEBC at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi. It will be backed up by two command centres, one at Caledonia Estate and another at a secret location. A source privy to the JP setup told the Star, on condition of anonymity, "The two command centres are highly guarded and only operated by specific individuals. Those not involved just watch the tests on screens within the facilities,” the source said. The data centers will be fed by more than 100,000 agents deployed countrywide, with at least two at each of about 41,000 polling stations. According to a highly placed Jubilee source, the party will not leak or announce its results until they are confirmed by the IEBC. The JP team says that it will store the information and collate it for any eventual court case, which the party says “it expects.” During his Kenya visit on July 15, Tanzanian opposition leader Edward Lowassa endorsed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection, saying he was the best person to govern the country and promote democracy in East Africa. Last year, Gambia's President Adama Barrow took the oath of office in neighbouring Senegal after incumbent Yahya Jameh disputed the poll result.
       Tanzania's Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation minister, Augustine Mahiga, has also dismissed reports that his country is not neutral in the Kenyan election. Jubilee had vigourously opposed NASA's parallel tallying plans but later decided to do the same thing.
    Yesterday, Communication Authority director general Francis Wangusi warned political leaders against announcing election results alongside the IEBC, saying this could trigger chaos after the polls.