 The focus within the Swiss
financial sector was on becoming a ‘clean financial sector’ rather than a place
notorious as a haven for illegally obtained funds; and this involved a policy
shift towards transparency. As explained by Ambassador Ralf
Heckner, from that point onwards, “Switzerland would no longer be a safe haven
for the corrupt.” The thinking behind this change
was not purely altruistic. There was an awareness that the Swiss bank sector
could only thrive if Swiss laws created a win-win situation between Switzerland
and other nations, and that the country itself could not thrive if it was seen
to be a rogue state in the middle of Europe. And it is here that this new
Swiss policy becomes of great interest not only to Kenyans, but also to many
others in developing nations.  MAKING
SURE CRIME DOESN’T PAY The Swiss Federal Department of
Foreign Affairs, Directorate for International Law, explains the new Swiss
policy in a document titled, “Making Sure Crime Doesn’t Pay: Repatriating the
Proceeds of Crimes” as follows: “Assets
illicitly acquired by Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) such as Heads of State
and high public officials, who illegally enrich themselves through state funds,
deprive their state of capital and hinder the development of their country.
These so-called “potentate funds” are frequently sent out of the country and
invested in international financial centres. Switzerland has a fundamental
interest in ensuring that assets of criminal origin are not invested in its
financial centre…Assets illicitly acquired by PEPs that manage to enter
Switzerland despite comprehensive precautionary measures have to be identified
and repatriated to their country of origin.” This might seem like mere
eyewash, intended to deceive the citizens of those nations that have thus been
subjected to the depredations of ruthless dictators, their families and
associates. After all, there must have all along been some very specific
financial advantages in permitting all those many “Swiss numbered bank
accounts” to be opened within Switzerland. Both the banks and the country must
have seen some advantage in it. So why throw away a goose which had evidently
been laying golden eggs all this time? Well, such scepticism may have
been valid in the early years of this shift towards transparency, but not
anymore. Remember, this process started back in the 1980s, and in the 30 years
since, much progress has been made, and evidence of the serious intention by
the Swiss in this matter has been steadily gathering. Here are two examples from
documents provided by the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs: And this is by no means the worst
news for those who would seek to hide their ill-gotten funds in Swiss banks. The approach used by the Swiss
authorities has since evolved to include anticipatory freezing of funds: “During
the Arab uprisings of 2011, the Swiss government immediately took proactive
measures and ordered the freezing of assets of the former rulers involved and
their entourages without waiting for requests for mutual legal assistance from
the countries in question. Lacking a specific legal basis to do so, this was
undertaken as an emergency measure based on the government's constitutional right
to safeguard Switzerland's interests.” What all this means is that a
modern-day Mobutu or Houphouët-Boigny, intent on concealing his vast illicit
fortune behind the safety of numbered accounts, would have to look elsewhere.
As the Swiss Federal Directorate for International Law explains: “The
strict provisions of Swiss anti-money-laundering legislation oblige Swiss banks
and all other financial service providers to identify not only the contracting
party, but also the economic beneficiary…Banks and other financial
intermediaries are required by law to report all suspicious transactions and to
block immediately any account where there is suspicion of money laundering.
Swiss banking secrecy provides no protection against the prosecution of
criminal offences either in Switzerland or in the context of international
mutual assistance in criminal matters.”  AND SO,
ONTO ANGLO LEASING Of particular interest in this
context is the Anglo-Leasing scandal, currently before the courts here in
Kenya, and therefore subject to the ‘sub judice’ provisions of the law. But
what is already in the public domain is that a fabulously wealthy family of
Kenyan Asians, the Kamani family, has been accused of playing a central role in
this giant scam, and a few of the relatives have already appeared in court to
answer charges related to Anglo Leasing. This scandal – of alleged “ghost
contracts” – was initiated in the last days of the regime of retired President
Daniel arap Moi, but extended into the early years of the Mwai Kibaki presidency
(2002-13). It was initially brought to public attention by British High
Commissioner Sir Edward Clay, perhaps the most storied foreign diplomat to ever
serve in Kenya. In this scandal, public funds
were alleged to have been stolen by direct payment for contracts that were
never honoured; for goods that were not supplied; at prices that were
impossible to justify; and to corporate entities that, basically, were
non-existent. Whatever the truth may be in this
matter, the established fact is that there is roughly 2.0 million Swiss Francs
(Sh206 million) currently held in frozen accounts in Switzerland, which are
judged to be the fruits of fraudulent contracting by officers of the government
of Kenya, in this matter. If the Kenyan courts were to finally
get to the bottom of this matter, it would not only free the Swiss authorities
to release – for use in Kenya – the sums that are currently in those frozen
accounts. Possibly even more important than
the money to be refunded, is the signal it would send: It would encourage
Kenya’s growth as a regional financial hub. There is currently a Bill before
Parliament, which is supposed to facilitate the proposed Nairobi International
Finance Centre. A final resolution to the Anglo Leasing scandal, through the
courts, would demonstrate that the Kenyan financial sector was governed by the
rule of law, and not by the arbitrary whims of those who might be temporarily
in power.  THE
QUESTION OF SCALE The problem, when it comes to repatriation
of the proceeds of crime, is one of scale. The Swiss authorities may currently
be on standby to send back to Kenya the aforementioned Sh206 million. But by
all accounts, that is but a small part of the money Kenya lost in the Anglo-Leasing
scam: A very small slice of a very big pie. The US Ambassador to
Kenya of the time, Michael Ranneberger, highlighted the magnitude – and sheer
brazenness – of this type of grand corruption, in a speech he gave in Nairobi
back in 2006. The Ambassador
emphasized that: “Corruption exacts a terrible human and economic cost
and is probably the single greatest impediment to economic development and
poverty reduction in Kenya.” He then went on to
speak of the Anglo Leasing scandal, which he said consisted of schemes
involving several branches of the government, and which had robbed the Kenyan
taxpayer of some $700 million. It should be mentioned though, that not all this
money necessarily found its way to Swiss numbered accounts.  “MORE THAN ALL THE FOREIGN ASSISTANCE” These schemes had
been designed to siphon off significantly more than that, but were only
partially successful: Most were closed after details of their operations were
exposed in the media. The Ambassador summed
up with these words: “To put this number in perspective, that $700
million is more than all the foreign assistance provided to Kenya over the past
year by international development banks and (foreign governments) ...It is
twice as much as the amount budgeted for health.”  In this context then, Kenyans can
only take limited consolation in the knowledge that 2.0 million Swiss Francs (Sh206
million) held in suspect accounts believed to be related to this scandal, have
been frozen by the Swiss authorities. It has now been over 10 years
since Kenyans heard of Anglo Leasing, and the broad public consensus has long
been that there was a massive fraud involved in these various contracts
collectively termed as "Anglo Leasing". Suspects have been in and out of
court, but there has been no final determination. And many questions remain
unanswered.  