When Dagoretti Approved Centre was started way back in 1935 by the white settlers, the institution was meant for boys who were unmanageable at home and in school. In 2005, the institution was changed from an 'approved' to a rehabilitation school for girls in conflict with the law. Despite the change in roles, locals still view it as an approved school. When we visited the institution last week, we asked to be dropped off at the rehabilitation centre, but the driver, who understood the locality well, could not figure out such a place. It was only after calling the source at the institution that we traced the place. "Ohhh, I know this place," the driver said. "It's not called rehabilitation centre; it's called approved." It is this mentality that annoys the institution manager, Clara Kirui. "You know approved is such a bad name, which portrays our girls as criminals," she said, adding that the girls' uniforms are child-friendly and just like those of other primary schools. There are currently 52 girls at the institution, five in secondary school. Clara said a child can be admitted for various reasons after a court process. "The reasons range from rescue from early marriage, family differences, being on the streets and death of parents," Clara said. There are 11 juvenile centres in the country, two of them for girls and nine for boys. “You're more likely to find young boys in crime than girls,” said Justus Muthoka, assistant director at the children’s department, Social Services ministry. While some of the children in these institutions are street children, others are those ‘beyond parental control’, Muthoka said, and they end up in the justice system. Clara, however, said her institution is for low-risk children and rarely hosts those who are beyond parental control. She said children there are given second chances, but clarifies that they don't do the outsourcing. "When children go through the court process, they are taken to Kirigiti Girls' Rehabilitation Centre, which in turn supplies the children to us," Clara said. There have been instances where she has had to send back parents who brought children they said were uncontrollable at home. "Parents drive in here in big cars. Rich people wanting to give us their children to tame, but I always send them back and tell them this is not an approved school. I advise them to start a court process if they indeed feel they cannot control their children," she said. Clara said dysfunctional families in most cases make such children end up in juvenile centres. FORMAL TRAINING At the institution, the girls are taken through the formal primary school training. "This is actually a school. We have the 8-4-4 system with trained teachers and we compete with neighbouring schools," Clara said. Since most of the girls joining the institution are older than the classes they get enrolled to, the institution introduced vocational training, where they engage the children in beadwork, mat making, tailoring and catering. "You can get a 12-year-old child who has never stepped into a classroom, forcing us to enrol them in nursery school. Such a child may be academically challenged, so we get all of them to participate in extra curriculum." The products they make are sometimes sold to parents and guardians during school visits, and the money goes back to the institution. At the institution, every child is treated as an individual and with dignity. "These children are all unique and valuable human beings," Clara said, adding that the children get some time out but with close observation. There are an estimated 12,000 children in the juvenile justice system countrywide. The 11 rehab/correction centres hold those who have gone through the judicial process and are minor offenders. There are two borstal institutions that hold the serious offenders. “There is Shikusa Borstal Institution in Kakamega and Shimo la Tewa in the Coastal region,” Muthoka said. Borstals hold boys from age 15 to 18 for a maximum of three years, depending on the gravity of their offences. “If children are taken to juvenile rehabilitation centres and they become a bother, we refer them to borstals. They hold the hardest boys,” Muthoka said. There are also 14 remands and four rescue centres for children. SIDEBAR: Education a click away as rehab school gets computer lab When we visited the Dagoretti Girls' Rehabilitation School, a group of the girls were studying in the computer lab, which was recently set up by MTN. The MTN Kenya team was on the ground inspecting the lab, which they set up last month during their 21 days of yellow care. The '21 days of yellow care' is a programme launched in 2007. In 2012, it was decided that ‘Investing in education for all’ would be a permanent theme for the programme. For 21 days, the MTN personnel works voluntarily for a good cause, and this year’s activities included the creation of "Y'ello Digital Rooms" at Youth Centres, and the education of the public about the proper use of internet and technology. The activities, which were carried out between June 1 and 21, were carried out in different African countries and in 24 counties in Kenya. "This year's decision to facilitate computer labs in rehab institutions has had an impact and is fulfilling," said MTN Business Kenya MD Kennedy Chinganya. "We’ve been harnessing our technology to improve the youth's access to education," he added. The lab is furnished with 11 computers, all installed with digital learning material for the pupils. Each computer has at least 50 e-books and videos for vocational learning. E-kitabu were the providers of the books. "We have computer lessons and we always come here and learn," one girl said. Since most of the teachers were not well conversant with computers, MTN took them through training to enable them to teach using the computers. "We do appreciate what they have done for us," Clara said. Other institutions that have benefited from the programme include Maralal Primary School and Kabete Rehabilitation Centre for boys. MTN also installed fibre connectivity to Upper Hill and Nairobi schools, but here, they charge a small fee that goes to a bursary kitty to assist two needy boys in each school. LAPTOPS PROJECT During the campaigns ahead of the 2013 general election, the Jubilee team manifesto highlighted the promise to provide laptops to every primary school class one pupil. The promise would, however, delay for more than three years, and only 11,500 pupils from 150 schools received tablets, laptops and projectors during the Sh19 billion pilot project, which was rolled out last year. In December 2015, digital content for standard one pupils was launched. The digital content is for mathematics, science, social studies, English and Kiswahili subjects. Others are interactive animations, videos, audios, cartoons, exercises and quizzes that have been used to improve the learning experience. All public primary schools were given Sh1.32 billion to put up storage facilities for the laptops. Education CS Fred Matiang’i last year was quoted saying that all schools were given the cash to build secure rooms for the sake of security. Given a total of 22,000 public primary schools, this means each school received Sh60,000. “Schools have been given the cash to build storage rooms. That is why we are following them to find out if the money has been spent well,” Matiang’i said. Some parents have been transferring their children to schools selected for the pilot project. In Nairobi county, the schools selected are Roysambu Primary School in Kasarani, Ndurarua Primary in Dagoretti and Bidii Primary School in Embakasi. Mombasa county has four pilot schools, namely Mwijabu and Port Reitz in Changamwe, and Kisauni and Sparki in Mombasa. In Kisumu county, the four pilot schools picked are MM Shah, Kibos, Nyabondo and St Elizabeth Bar Korwa. The pilot schools in Baringo are AIC Visa Oshwal Primary, Kabarnet Special, Moi Kabartonjo Primary and Esageri AIC Boarding Primary School. Kenyatta University, Dedan Kimathi University, Moi University, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and the University of Nairobi were among the selected firms to deliver the Jubilee pet project. Kenyans will be waiting to see what happens to the laptop project after the August 8 general election, depending on which political outfit carries the day.