NASA leaders want to cause chaos on Election Day and reject the outcome of the polls, Deputy President William Ruto has said.
Campaigning in Kuresoi yesterday, Ruto said NASA’s call to its supporters to jam the polling stations is well-choreographed to cause tension with security agencies and violence.
The government is aware that causing chaos is the final strategy the opposition will adopt after losing, he said.
“It is common knowledge that the opposition has sensed defeat and that’s why it is planning to cause chaos now that the courts have affirmed the election will be on August 8,” Ruto said.
Opposition leaders are inciting their followers that is why they are opposed to the presence of security in polling stations, despite the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission providing rules of how many agents each candidate is expected to have, the DP said.
NASA will lose
Ruto said the opposition has already sensed defeat.
The Deputy President said the accusations against the military are far-fetched and meant to incite followers to violence.
NASA’s plan to postpone the election through the courts failed and they are now on a drive to sabotage the polls, he said.
Ruto campaigned in Kuresoi and Rongai, Nakuru county; in Likuyani, Kakamega county; and Amagoro in Busia county.
He was with Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, MPs Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North), Liza Chelule (nominated) and Arthur Odera (Teso North), and Jubilee candidates for Nakuru governor and senator Lee Kinyanjui and Susan Kihika, respectively.
“The election will be held on August 8 and our security forces will make sure that all Kenyans vote in peace and without being threatened,” Ruto said.
He said the opposition is wasting its time in the courts and other diversionary schemes in the hope of delaying the election, but all their attempts have failed.
Large margin will  avoid dispute
Wamalwa asked Western to vote for Jubilee to have a clear victory that will not be disputed by the opposition.
“We want a peaceful election but as voters from Western Kenya, you should turn up in large numbers and vote for Jubilee to win by a large margin,” he said.
 Cheboi said voters in Nakuru have resolved to support Jubilee because of the development projects it has initiated.