Employers should settle dues owed to the National Industrial Training Authority for funding industrial attachment for students as it is a government requirement. The authority is mandated with regulating industrial training. It says the unpaid dues have led to operational breakdown as it does not have enough money to fund industrial attachments. NITA requires all employers to contribute Sh50 per month for each student on attachment in their organisations. The authority pays each intern Sh3,000 per month. The organisations are further required not to take in more than 25 students on attachment at one time. This came into operation in 2007, but according to Kenya Private Sector Alliance education governor Mutheu Kasanga, most companies did not know about the requirement, leading to accumulated high debts. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, NITA director Paul Kipsang said at least 30 per cent of all companies countrywide have not settled their dues. “For a student to be competent for the job market they require to be familiar with the job market and the employer has to support this through industrial internships and attachments,” Kipsang said. Kipsang said the authority spent more than Sh50 million in the previous financial year to finance industrial attachments. The authority has five centres. “Currently we are using negotiations in trying to persuade employers to pay their debts, but if this won’t work we will have no other option but to seek legal redress,” Kipsang said. He further said the authority is under pressure from the Auditor General to collect the outstanding dues. “The payment is not optional, it is a mandatory requirement that has to be adhered to by all companies,” Kipsang added. The private sector has been urging the government to waive the huge dues. According to the Industrial Training Act those eligible for industrial internship should be 18 years old and must be undergoing training in a programme requiring industrial attachment. The prospective intern is required to apply for industrial attachment and in the opinion of the director general may benefit from skills acquired in industry.