Four years ago, the Nyanza Ginnery in Kisumu was bustling with activity as trucks offloaded cotton from Bondo, Kendu Bay, and as far as Baringo. But now all is quiet, with only a few employees in the premises.Shafiq Zavery, the owner of the ginnery, says three years ago things started going downhill until they were eventually forced to close. He had been in the cotton business for 12 years up to 2013. Zavery says the company was forced to close due to the lack of raw material.He says due to a lack of understanding of dynamics that govern export commodities in the global market, farmers got confused by price fluctuations.&ldquo;At one time we were buying at Sh30 then increased to Sh65 then went down again to the current price of about Sh42, before dropping to Sh40 per kilogramme of lint,&rdquo; Zavery notes.&ldquo;In 2012 we processed 78 bales, before that we did 100 bales and the year before we did about 160 bales. So when we go downwards, it means the farmers are not growing cotton. We have a capacity of 600 bales a month and 2,400 bales a season. The highest we have ever reached was 1,600 bales in a season.&rdquo; He explains that before relocating to Kisumu, they used to transport cotton to Kitui. &ldquo;But we realised it&rsquo;s cheaper to look for a ginnery in Nyanza and that is how we acquired the Kisumu ginnery,&rdquo; Zavery says. The Kisumu ginnery is among 17 out of 22 that are obsolete. The five that are operational - Kitui, Makueni, Meru, Mpeketoni and Salawa &ndash; are functioning below capacity.In the 1970s and 1980s, Kenya was the leading producer of lint in the region and the industry was the second leading employer after the public service.The cotton industry collapsed in the late 1980s and early 90s after the liberalisation of the agriculture sector following introduction of the Structural Adjustment Programmes by the Bretton Wood Institutions - World Bank and International Monetary Fund.This led to the collapse of most ginneries as farmers abandoned the crop due to low prices and gross mismanagement.Zavery is passionate about the cotton business. He was born into a family that had been farming cotton since 1935 as their main economics stay. &ldquo;Starting with our great grandparents, we don&rsquo;t know any other business in our family and that is the reason I want to revive it. It gives us the drive. Cotton is such a thing that when you are distributing the seeds, there is always the hope that it will be better and it keeps you going. For our family, we have an addiction to cotton farming,&rdquo; he says.The family is mobilising resources to restructure the ginnery and make it operational by October or November.&ldquo;We want to approach the business in a very different concept. We are in talks with the county government to revive the ginnery and the first thing that needs to be done is grow enough cotton. They have offered us foundation seeds and we have put aside 400 acres for that. This year we will just be dealing with the foundation seeds in order to distribute them to farmers next year,&rdquo; Zavery says.Under the new business model, the company will contract farmers and then reach out to the county government to provide educated extension service officers.The officers will help in educating farmers on modern farming techniques and solving various challenges. They will walk with the farmers from the time of planting until harvest time.The aim is to boost farmers&rsquo; morale and encourage them to double their efforts to increase production.&ldquo;If this can be done, there will be an increase in the number of farmers growing cotton because they will be more confident. Farmers have to realise that it is their livelihood and change their attitude towards cotton farming,&rdquo; says Zavery. "We need to make them aware that they can increase productivity from 200 kilos per acre, to a minimum of 600-800 kilos per acre. To achieve this we need the assistance of the extension service providers."He adds that his company will establish buying centres in various subcounties to ease the challenges of transporting the raw material from farms to Kisumu.Michael Onyoro, a cotton farmer in Kisumu subcounty and chairman of the Kisumu County Cotton Growers Union, says growers abandoned cotton-growing due to low prices.&ldquo;This led to the closure of many ginneries in Kisumu. Now we sell cotton to ginneries in Makueni, Baringo and Meru counties,&rdquo; he says.Even though the cotton industry is in a sorry state, Onyoro says he has educated his children, bought a motorcycle and car from the proceeds of his 10-acre cotton farm. A kilogramme of cotton sells for Sh46 as per the government gazetted price. &ldquo;The actual cost is Sh64, but due to the transportation cost of Sh18 per kg, we get Sh46. When we had ginneries around, the cost of transportation was as little as Sh2 to Sh3,&rdquo; he says.The high cost of insecticides, Onyoro says, is a challenge threatening to force farmers out of business. A farmer needs to spray his crop about six times and on average it costs Sh150 per acre per session to fight bollworms.&ldquo;Production of cotton 30 years back was high and many farmers were able to produce the AR high quality grade unlike the BR grade, which is of low quality due to insect infestation. AR fetches almost twice the amount of BR. Most farmers produce BR grade, but those who produce AR have to spray many times, which is very expensive,&rdquo; says James Riaga, the union's secretary.At Luanda Ginnery, machines are rusty and covered in dust, despite the huge investment poured with the support of World Bank in 1969 to benefit at least 40,000 cotton farmers.Vincent Egesa, who is the chairman, says they are out of business because farmers no longer produce enough lint to sustain the ginnery.The facility had a processing capacity of 10,000 bales but due to low cotton productivity, low prices and lack of market, the ginnery, which employed 1,000 farmers has closed its doors.Egesa says despite the Busia government allocating Sh63 million from 2013 to 2017 to revive the cotton sector, Luanda Ginnery has only received Sh1.2 million. The 2016-17 budgetary allocation of Sh20 million is yet to reach the union, which has a membership of 40,000 cotton farmers.&ldquo;We need about Sh150 million to be able to fully revive the ginnery and sensitise farmers to start growing cotton, service some of the machines and buy modern gins. The machines are intact and only need some repairs for them to start working again,&rdquo; Egesa says.National cotton productionAccording to the Fibre Crops directorate interim head Anthony Mureithi, the current national seed cotton production is at 30,000 bales per year, which is far below the country's demand.Local cotton production only meets 17 per cent of local demand, the rest is imported. Mureithi says cotton production peaked in 1984, with an output of 70,000 bales. But it has declined since the 1990s to 30,000 bales of lint cotton currently.Back then the Bura Irrigation Scheme used to produce 30 per cent of the national production. To bridge the gap, the government imports substantial amounts of cotton lint and seed cake for local textile mills and feed manufacture, mainly from Tanzania and Uganda, which produce 15 times and five times Kenya&rsquo;s production respectively every year.&ldquo;The country potential demand is estimated to be 260,000 bales per year and Kenya currently imports 70,000 bales per annum, mainly from Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania. The country has a potential production of 350,000 bales of lint from 300,000 hectares ( 741,316 acres) under rain-fed agriculture and an additional 35,000 hectares (86,486) under irrigation,&rdquo; Mureithi says.Out of the total land suitable for cotton farming, only 30,000 hectares (74,131 acres) is currently in use. The decline in production, Mureithi says, has been caused by a combination of factors that include market liberalisation, competition from synthesis fibres, disease and pest buildup, especially the African bollworm and cotton strainers.&ldquo;Poor crop management, low prices, high cost of inputs, inefficient marketing channels, over-dependence on rain-fed cotton growing and poor quality seeds have also contributed to the decline,&rdquo; he adds.Thomas Kipkurgat, Rivetex managing director in Eldoret, says even as the company is modernised, the 10,000 bales of cotton from farmers that is available for processing is not sufficient.&ldquo;The output is below the capacity for Rivetex to fully be operational for a year. We need more than 72,000 bales annually for the company to be fully operational,&rdquo; he says.Side barCall for GM technology to enhance cotton productionFarmers in countries such as Sudan, Burkina Faso and India have embraced genetically modified cotton and are enjoying the yields while their Kenyan counterparts continue to struggle.Thomas Kipkurgat, Rivetex managing director in Eldoret says unlike conventional cotton, which has low yields and less productivity, genetically modified cotton is high yielding and is insect-resistant.He says if Kenya embraces the technology and irrigation, the cotton sector can employ up to 40,000 farmers directly and indirectly, employ 18,000 in the ginneries and up to 2,100 in the manufacturing sector.In a nutshell, Kipkurgat says, the cotton industry will be able to create more than 60,000 jobs in Kenya annually.&ldquo;It is high time Kenya moved to address GM because this is the way to go. Countries such as Malawi are heading to commercialisation of GM cotton, while in Kenya the debate is characterised by politics and influences from interested groups, thus strangling the plan. The government should appreciate the hard work scientists have put so we move on and allow farmers to grow Bt cotton,&rdquo; he says.The GM cotton, according to Kipkurgat, is drought-resistant and can produce up to 1,800 -2,000kg per acre while conventional cotton can only go to 400-500kg per acre, which is below productivity level. &ldquo;Currently farmers need to spray 12 times a year but with Bt cotton, you spray two to three times a year. For economies of scale, this is the way to go.&rdquo;Paul Chege, the programme officer Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology-Kenya, says GM cotton is resistant against bollworm.&ldquo;The bollworm affects the cotton bolls so that they are not able to bud and produce a flower, hence low production,&rdquo; he explains.Chege states that the bollworm affects a crop's productivity by 50 to 90 per cent. Besides, farmers have to spray up to 12 times in a season of four to six months to control the pest, which is very expensive.&ldquo;Bt cotton is resistant to the bollworm and farmers do not have to spray. They only need to spray against the mealybugs and aphids, which do not require much [pesticide] and can be controlled through irrigation,&rdquo; he says.He adds that GM cotton has been researched by the Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation and Monsanto from 2006 to 2014. An Environmental Impact Assessment has also been applied and approved by the National Biosafety Authority in accordance to the 2009 Biosafety Act.The stalemate, according to Chege, is with the National Environmental Management Authority, which is yet to issue the EIA certificate so that the National Performance Trials can go on before the crop is commercialised and released to farmers.