Human trafficking is real. As unbelievable as it sounds, my unborn baby will probably make more money for these monsters than I ever will. And they&rsquo;ll have her for a lot more years than they&rsquo;ll have me. Imagine being born into a life of drugs and prostitution? I can&rsquo;t allow that to happen. I have to get out of here!I wait for a few minutes after he leaves and then I gather the sheets. The window in the room is pretty high up but thanks to the trunk they left behind, I can try and reach it, using the sheets as rope. I had noticed rough edges on the trunk and some of the decorative metal studs are pretty sharp. Sharp enough to help me rip these sheets. I cut three separate strips, each about 20 inches wide. Then I braid them together. It takes me about an hour. When I&rsquo;m done, I stretch it out. It doesn&rsquo;t feel strong enough to support my body weight. I cut another three strips and repeat the process, this time tying both braids together when I&rsquo;m done. It feels much stronger now. Two hours are gone and I&rsquo;m nervous that Bill will come back to check on me soon. I push the trunk to the wall where the window is. I clamber on top of it. Just as I thought - I&rsquo;m high enough to push the window open but not nearly high enough to climb out. It has a bar on it and I swing my make shift rope around it. I test my weight on it. It feels strong. I can do this! I start to climb. When I reach the top, I start to squeeze through the bars. Thankfully, they are wide enough for me to wiggle through. But it&rsquo;s a struggle. I pull the rope and toss it to the other side. I&rsquo;ve made it! I climb down quickly and fall gingerly to the ground. The Girl Guide movement has paid off 20 years later. Who knew? Thanks mum, for making me join! Our motto was &lsquo;Be Prepared&rsquo; and they taught us to cope with anything that might come our way. I do the Guide Sign (Three fingers standing) &ndash; Duty to God, Country and Guide Law. My squad would be so proud of me right now. I look around. It&rsquo;s very quiet. Bill must be inside. I won&rsquo;t approach the gate this time; I&rsquo;m better off trying to go through the hedge. Besides, I couldn&rsquo;t climb that gate the last time I tried. My fingers kept sliding on the slippery rails, wet from the rain. I run to the fence like demons are behind me. It&rsquo;s dusk, it will be dark soon. I get to it quickly enough and walk along it until I find a part of the hedge that thankfully has no wire mesh. I can squeeze through this but it&rsquo;s very dense. The thorns rip at my flesh as I struggle through the overgrown thicket. It takes forever. When I finally make it to the other side, I&rsquo;m full of scrapes and bruises. I guess I&rsquo;m not such a clean canvas anymore! I stifle a laugh. I&rsquo;ve made it! I&rsquo;m on the road! I have no clue where I am. It&rsquo;s dark now. Should I go left or right? I don&rsquo;t care. I&rsquo;m out of here. I start running. I have no idea where I&rsquo;m going but I need to place as much distance as I can between me and that place. After about 10 minutes I see a car approaching. Do I try and flag them down for help? But what if it&rsquo;s the people who took me there? Or worse, the client? I hide behind a tree until the headlights fade away in the distance.