The Changawa siblings dominance in the ongoing Britam Kenya Open was brought to halt after Ismael and Shufaa failed to win their respective semi finals matches. After flying high in the preliminary rounds and quarter-finals, the two who were earlier tipped to retain their titles but Sheil Kotecha and Natalie Colonel of Argentina ended their dreams in the last four. Kotecha defied all odds to down defending champion Ismael Changawa 6-1, 7-6, 6-4 to set a final date with Uganda&rsquo;s Duncan Mugabe in the final.Kotecha dominated the first set with his tactical approach of directing balls to the right of the left handed Changawa hence the proceedings favoured him throughout the match. His magic and pace saw his opponent call in medics for first aid after picking a knock while returning a serve.Kotecha proceeded to win the first set with Changawa pulling a game back.Furious after dropping the first set, Changawa stepped up in the second set, gathered the required momentum which saw him level matters, thanks to his relentless resilience.A more composed Kotecha punished Changawa in the determining set, edging him out 6-4. Kotecha could not hide his joy after the match. &ldquo;I was more composed than the previous matches and I utilised my chances as well as defended well. I remained calm after losing the second set and put more efforts in the final set. He is really a good guy and offered me stiff challenge. The match was really tough and I am happy I won.&rdquo;The win is set to renew rivalry between Mugabe and Kotecha with the former having won the last outing. &ldquo;He beat me last time and I will give my best this time. I have watched him play severally and I have learnt I know what to do,&rdquo; said Kotecha. In the other men&rsquo;s semi-final Mugabe thumped Ibrahim Yego of Kenya 7-6,7-6 to book a spot in the final. The Ugandan found the going tough as Yego pulled games in each set to settle for narrow wins. He said: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s through composure and experience that I have sailed to the final. I expect a tough final.&rdquo;In the women&rsquo;s semis, defending champion Shufaa Changawa succumbed to Colonel 6-1,6-3, ending her title defence dreams. The Uganda-based Argentine caused all sorts of problems to Shufaa, winning her sets without conceding many games. She said: &ldquo;I am happy to be in the final after enduring a previous poor run in the past editions. I was focused for a win and I really got it at a good stage against a tough opponent.&rdquo;The win means Natalie will play Gabonese Celestine Avomo who floored a youthful Sneha Kotecha 7-5,6-1. Sneha rued the lack of experience as her main undoing. &ldquo;It was a competitive match but my opponent was a bit stronger and experienced. I was so nervous in the first set and she capitalised on the situation to punish my mistakes. My focus shifts to ITF under-18 tournament.&rdquo;