Villagers of Lamu’s Pandanguo village — attacked by militants on Wednesday — are appealing for urgent food and other aid from the government and well-wishers. They also need bedding, clothing and supplies  after they were robbed by al Shabaab militants who raided the village at 5.30am on Wednesday. The more than 2,000 villagers say they might starve. More than 200 militants attacked Pandanguo police post in Lamu West and engaged officers in a fierce gun battle that lasted as long as seven hours. Operaiton Linda Boni was launched on September 11, 2015, and several times was declared to be a success, making great progress. Militants stole maize, beans and rice that had recently been distributed to the residents as food aid from the national government two days earlier. A police officer who had been reported missing during the raid has been found alive. The officer hid in a bush during the attack and escaped on foot during the night to Witu police station, several kilometres away. There were 19 officers at the post  during the attack. Three were killed in the fire exchange. The militants also made away with a police Land Cruiser. Two officers were seriously injured and are being treated at the Manda Naval Base. Pandanguo community spokesperson Adan Golja said all the 185 households in the village were ransacked by the militants. They also stole utensils, electronics, knives and pangas, before fleeing back into the Boni Forest. “No single household was left with food. They took it all. We have nothing to eat as it is. Even the local kiosks were looted clean,” Golja said. “We saw them. There was so many of them dressed in army uniforms. We don’t know where to start because the food had just been given to us two days ago as aid from the government. Now it’s gone and we are hungry. We hope the government will help us again.” The only nurse who operates at the Pandanguo Dispensary, Sharuti Ali, said all medicine and other supplies were taken by the militants, leaving the facility clean. Residents have also appealed to the government and the concerned communication company to repair the mast destroyed by the militants. Meanwhile, an intense operation in search of the militants has been launched by the KDF and a contigent of other security units in Boni Forest. It is believed to be main hideout of the militants, who also take refuge in other areas. Linda Boni Operation director James Seriani said enough officers have been deployed. T.s