It is now almost a year since the Burangi integrated food security project, a diverse scheme that incorporates modern farming methods and unparalleled irrigation, was inaugurated. The project has had a great impact on the hitherto flood and drought-prone area, and could turn it to one of a major food basket. The area is about 15 kilometres from Sabaki bridge and the terrain consists of valleys caused by the perennial flood disasters. There are 800 acres of maize planted using modern farming methods, which are almost ready for harvest. Such a large plantation has never been seen by the residents, let alone the healthiness of the crops. The community chose to plant maize first this season to have enough food in their store, before venturing into high-value crops. Burangi Irrigation Scheme chairman Peter Wanje said the National Irrigation Board came and did research in the area and found out the area was ideal for irrigation. However, the project did not begin until devolution came into effect in 2013. The Kilifi government’s Agriculture department took over the initiative and identified 1,161 acres for farmers to begin irrigation farming. At first, the farmers were taken through a series of trainings on modern farming methods. “The county government brought experts, taught us how to plant crops in a row, apply manure and how to take care of them to get good yields,” he says.  CHANGE OF TACK Traditionally, the farmers used to plant only maize randomly and with very little spacing. More than six maize seedlings would be planted in one hole, which made it difficult for maize plants to yield well. Their seeds were also traditional ones, those stored from previous harvests, which would be used for planting in the next season. Farms were not tilled by tractors, as it was costly for the farmers. They would use small jembes to plant, till the farms and wait for harvesting time. Sometimes the area would experience floods that swept their crops away, or droughts that made the crops fail, leaving them reliant on the government for relief food. Decades of suffering due to lack of technical and financial support from the government contributed to high poverty levels. The idea of irrigation began way back in the 1970s, when agricultural experts began researching on the possibilities of doing irrigation farming in the area. Local farmers who had high hopes in the project, however, were kept waiting all this time. The National Irrigation Board did the research but abandoned the project halfway, leaving the desperate farmers to continue with their traditional farming methods. To help them upgrade their farming methods, the county government trained them and pumped Sh28 million to roll out the project. Through their experts the authorities, it acquired 12 irrigation pumps and 2,400 water pumps. The 1,116 acres were subdivided into eight blocks amongst the 738 farmers, and 800 acres of it had maize planted on it, which will be harvested later this month. Authorities brought tractors and charged them a lower rate of Sh1,500 per acre, down from the normal Sh2,500 per acre. They were also provided with seeds and fertilisers. Indications have already proved the farmers shall get a bumper harvest, enough for their use and even for sale. Asked how they were told to do the farming, he said the experts told them to plant two seeds only per hole and plant only one crop. “Traditionally, we were used to planting up to 10 seeds of maize randomly in one hole. We were taught to plant only two seeds per hole and in a straight line,” Wanje says. The project chairman said they used the pumps to reach out to all the farms and ensure they got enough water for the crops. “What we are witnessing is really encouraging. We now require a gala to store the maize because it has really done well,” he said. County agricultural officer Omar Ibrahim, who oversaw the project’s implementation, says research proved the area is very fertile. “Burangi Irrigation Scheme research was done by the National Irrigation Board,” he said. “We did feasibility studies and came up with this county integrated project. The research showed that all kinds of crops can be  planted here.” Ibrahim said farmers have been hampered by lack of inputs, water, fuel and seeds. “Many farmers were poor. We allocated Sh28 million last year and began trainings,” he said. The biggest problem, Ibrahim said, was famine. Before embarking on the commercial farming, they first agreed to do food security intervention. The farmers chose maize as their first crop and using the county tractors, they were able to save Sh800,000. After the harvest, the farmers now will be focusing on high-value crops, such as horticultural products, including tomatoes, onions, and cabbages. “In the first harvest, we expect 15 bags per acre, which in total shall be 15,000 bags,” the agricultural officer said. He said the demand for the farmers and the entire population of 7,000 people in the area was 6,000 bags. This means after the harvest, the farmers will remain with a surplus of 9,000 bags of maize. Previously, farmers used to get an average of three bags of maize per acre, which will now rise to 15. “These farmers never knew the difference between traditional farming and modern farming,” he said. After harvesting, the farmers will now turn to the value crops, which would generate income throughout the year after every harvest. Ibrahim said they already did a market survey in Malindi that proved the farmers’ products will get a ready market ‘if properly timed’. An acre of tomatoes, for example, could produce up to Sh500,000 after harvesting. “They can learn how to invest, educate their children, build modern houses in their homes,” he said. The agricultural expert said they also intend to come up with a cooperative society that would enable the farmers to inject their shares and be able to save and uplift their standards of living. “If they have savings, we shall teach them how to invest with their money, and this will transform their lives for the better,” the agricultural officer said.  LIFE-CHANGING PROJECT During the tour of the farm, we found fresh onions bigger than the ones normally found in the market, together with cabbages and tomatoes, which can be major economic products if produced in large scale. Farmer Kahonzi Kenga, who was born and brought up in the area, recalled how they used to fetch water to the river with a bucket and carry it to their farms for irrigation. She said memories of the tiresome process can never fade because despite all that, it would be difficult to get a good harvest, as some crops would die after failing to get enough water. “Imagine carrying a bucket full of water with a child on the back and another you’re expecting, then you end up getting a poor harvest,” she said. She said due to a poor road network, they would also walk on foot with the little harvest to Malindi and knock on doors of different houses to sell and get money to buy food for their families. Due to poverty, the farmers also planted only maize for consumption with their families each year, as the area used to be dry, a problem that led to famine. Little did they know that without rain, the area could still be the food basket for not only Kilifi county but the Coast region at large due to the good soils that were available. Shehe Mzungu, a father of 20 children, said he is happy as the project will enable him to feed his family. The farmers believe if the funds used for bigger projects, such as the multibillion-shilling Galana Kulalu project, would be distributed to farmers, it would help transform lives by empowering people directly.  BIGGER PLANS Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi toured the area on July 19. He said for more than 50 years, agriculture had been sidelined not only in Magarini but the entire Coast region, despite the high potential for production. Kingi said Burangi alone had the potential to produce 3,000 acres of food, and with the success, he promised to pump in more funds to expand the project. “We initiated eight irrigation projects in the county. Burangi is among them. It has been successful, I thank Burangi farmers for their commitment,” he said. Other irrigation schemes include Zia ra Wari, Dagamra and Kakoneni. Kingi said in the next five years, his administration intends to make use of the 5,000 hectares ( 12,500 acres) on irrigation. The governor said the county shall look for a market for their products. “I am happy that this area of Kilifi could do such production in large scale,” Kingi said. He said the national government spent more than Sh15 billion in the 1 million-acre Galana Kulalu project, and still there is no progress. Agriculture chief officer Baha Nguma said in the entire irrigation programme, the county spent Sh2.5 million for fuel and Sh12.5 million for farm inputs, including high-value certified seeds and fertilisers. “In the 2017-18 financial year, we shall add an extra Sh20 million to expand the Burangi Irrigation Scheme. In two years, all the remaining land shall be under irrigation,” he said. Once the 3,000 acres are utilised, the farmers will be able to produce 45,000 bags of maize. With such initiatives and if they are well implemented, the county could soon become independent and shall never again rely on relief food from the national government.