Deputy
President William Ruto has achieved nearly as much distinction in being hated as
he has been fortunate in being loved. This in a nutshell, is the Ruto paradox.
How is it that someone evokes so much love/hate emotions every time he starts
to speak? On July 12, a crowd in Kisumu recently shouted to the President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s face, “Hatutaki Ruto!” yet the same crowd (most likely) had been on
hand to shout DP Ruto’s praise, when he was an ODM Pentagon member in 2007. This
phenomenon is of course not new to Ruto. Jesus also had a similar problem.
Those who shouted “crucify him!” had been the same crowd that had days earlier sung
to him, “Hosanna in the highest!”, as he entered Jerusalem on the back of a
donkey.  THE POLITICS
OF THE RESTIVE MAJORITY If Jubilee
will win this election, they will owe it to one man — Ruto. Conversely, if they
lose, they will blame it on man — Ruto. It’s that plain and simple. It only
depends on how the Deputy President will play with the mind of the restive
majority. There are those who are going to vote, not against Uhuru but against Ruto.
There are also those who are also going to vote, not for Uhuru but for his
deputy. In fact, Uhuru seems to have somehow insulated himself against the
politics of Kenya’s restless voter. The Deputy President isn’t there yet. He is
wrestling with him.  YESTERDAY’S
LOVERS AND TODAYS LOATHERS Nearly every
Kenyan politician or voter has at one time exhibited the two emotions towards
Ruto  —intense love and intense hatred. There
are also those that have felt the same emotions about him at the same time. In
2005, most of his current haters loved him to bits for delivering the Rift
Valley against President Mwai Kibaki and Amos Wako’s nefarious draft constitution. In 2007, he
again delivered the Rift Valley to his then friend-turned-foe Raila Odinga. The
ODM camp loved him in no uncertain terms as much as the PNU side loathed him. In
2010, his haters and lovers switched camp and the haters did their thing on him
for opposing the Constitution, which was eventually passed in the referendum. In
the aftermath of the 2007 post-election violence, that loathing did land him in
the ICC and, indeed, it was a period of great uncertainty for those who loved
him.  SCAPEGOATING
RUTO The love-loathe
relationship with Ruto has morphed into something new — scapegoating. Since
about this time last year, nearly every politician with political problems has
found a new reason —Ruto. Oh, it doesn’t matter from which side of the
political divide they were or they are. If the nominations went badly — the
Deputy President became the convenient scapegoat, the ultimate fall guy. They accused
him of everything from raising and financing opponents to bringing up
‘projects’ and imposing them on the people. It reached a point where it was
very difficult for a new political entrant to get things going without first
looking at how their association with Ruto (real or perceived) would be
interpreted by their opponents. Indeed, the tag of ‘Ruto project’ became a
killer punch on newcomers across the country and his close associates.  SO MUCH
LOVING Then there
are those who openly admire his charisma and energy of a young ox. His
eloquence, self-assurance and buoyancy have attracted millions to him. His audacious
political positions and never shying away from a fight is the base of his
followers, who find in him a hero-leader to trust their vote with. To others his
greatness lies in closing ranks with the Kikuyu, whom the Kalenjins had
identified as their perennial competitors for resources. This relationship had
predictable conflict cycles edged around elections and with disastrous outcomes.
Give it to him. He has applied his massive energies to bring this election home
for Jubilee against all odds. And this may just be the reason he attracts so
much loathing, or loving.  ENEMY MAKING Another Ruto
paradox is his affinity for enemy making. NASA principals are seemingly in a
fight against Ruto not even with Uhuru. Their strategy has been to paint the
pot black (there was already some black) and shout from the rooftops how black
he is when they can hardly exonerate themselves from similar claims against them.
Ruto, understanding this, has stated that they should not bring the war to his
person but wait until 2022, when he will be on the ballot like the others.  His list of enemies is long. When he joined
active politics sometime in 1992, he had a great friend in one Cyrus Jirongo.
When Jacob Juma was shot dead in May last year, Jirongo came out accusing Ruto of
killing him. He, however, chose not to take Jirongo to court but instead chose
one Ngeno Masaas Laluk (Boniface Mwangi’s nom
de guerre) and dragged him by the ears to court. The matter threatened to
get ugly but it seemed Ruto was raring to go. Ruto’s enemies trooped to Laluk’s
side emasculating the feeble activist’s hand to throw a punch at Ruto. It soon
emerged to us that there was a closeted love-child which was thought would
deeply embarrass the DP. He quickly owned up to it and asked, “What more dirt
do you have? Bring it on!” We all went quiet.  CUTTING
BRIDGES Another
interesting aspect of the DP’s style of power play is his ability to cut
bridges and consign his enemies to the dogs. Ruto is not always a great
bridge-builder. Instead of reaching out to those he has wronged, he would
rather have them go over to the other side and remain there, bringing down the
bridge and waiting to see what they will do. There are many people opposing him
now who have been his bosom friends, including Governor Isaac Rutto, Senator Gideon
Moi, Cyrus Jirongo, Peter Kenneth, Senator Boni Khalwale, Musalia Mudavadi,
Kalonzo Musyoka, Senator Moses Wetang’ula, Charity Ngilu and even NASA leader
Raila Odinga. The list is long, very long in fact. How does he convert so many
friends into such powerful enemies? Unless of course he did not consider them his
friends in the first place. In fact he was ready to let go of Kanu and has little
or no love for its chairman Gideon, who has never shared a podium with him except
in funerals despite publicly pledging to ‘support’ Jubilee. Ruto is even
on record for asking the people of Baringo to elect Jubilee Senate candidate
Simon Chelugui and vote Gideon out. This has reduced Gideon to fight for his
political life in his Baringo backyard instead of coming out to defend Jubilee
against NASA onslaught. Nick Salat, another powerful campaigner would have been
booming across the country for Jubilee but has been reduced to his Bomet
backyard trying to survive politically. All of these are wasted resources on
the ground, which would have been better utilised to defend Jubilee.  SNUBBING THE
DEBATE Another
aspect of the Paradox of Ruto is the blur between the obvious and the absurd.
We are still yet to understand what got into Ruto and his boss Uhuru to snub
such an excellent forum to sell their policies. Who snubs political debates in
this day and age? Even President
Yoweri Museveni actually debated his perennial enemy Dr Kizza Besigye ahead of
the last Ugandan elections. Like millions of Kenyans, I eagerly awaited the
debate to see how the candidates would perform. On the material day, a friend
asked me to join him to attend the debate at CUEA. I jumped at the offer. But when
we arrived at the gate, we were turned back when they discovered we had no
tickets. We were frisked by the hawk-eyed security and our car checked by sniffer
dogs in what turned out to be a well-organised security programme. We did not
know we needed tickets. So we quickly made for a nearby restaurant to watch the
debate on TV. We, however, sat waiting for hours in vain. My friend, however,
happened to have the DP Ruto’s number, sent him a passionate plea to show up
for the debate, but he ignored the text just the same. He instead treated us to
an hour and a half of a quasi-diatribe by someone we were all seeing for the
first time. Between us we agreed that we probably didn’t quite understand this UhuRuto
duo, described by Mutahi Ngunyi as the ‘Ferrari’ candidacy as opposed to NASA’s
‘matatu’ candidacy (all inclusive).  FOR WHOM THE
BELL TOLLS Another paradox
is the DP’s stand on the TJRC Report. Yes, he is mentioned in the report, but
largely on minor issues some of which he has already dealt with. His role in
the 2007-08 PEV is mentioned and by the time the report was released, he was
already appearing before the ICC. His discussion of the Wagalla Massacre on the
floor of the House on October 18, 2000 came under scrutiny but not much else
save for a recommendation the he be prosecuted together with others on matters
relating to land, and for that he has already had his day in court. He should,
therefore, be the last man to have sleepless nights over the report any more
than President Uhuru or even Raila should. But there are millions of Kenyans
who needlessly suffered the grind of the Kanu machine and also in subsequent
regimes. DP Ruto should personally know the pain of being falsely accused
before an international court, which is why his stand is just another paradox.
How should he let the tears of millions flow in vain? Perhaps that stand on the
TJRC Report should bring him to the words of Donne in his famous line, “And,
therefore, never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee.”   