On one summer&rsquo;s day, a fox was strolling through an orchard till he came to a bunch of ripening grapes on a vine, which had been trained over a lofty branch. &ldquo;Just the thing to quench my thirst,&rdquo; he thought. Drawing back a few paces, he took a run and a jump, and just missed the bunch. Turning around again with a one, two, three, he jumped up, but with no greater success. Again, and again he tried after the tempting morsel, but gave up at last, walked away with his nose in the air, saying, &ldquo;I am sure they are sour.&rdquo;In life, it is easy to despise what one cannot get. And for some, this is an opportunity to blame others and make all manner of excuses for their weaknesses.And it is no longer surprising for the opposition to keep attacking institutions, but the latest assaults have really surprised many. We have even lost count of how many instances they have taken to the podium to trash one institution or the other.Last week, ODM leader Raila Odinga retreated to Kibra, which he has traditionally used as an avenue to stir up the emotions of his supporters. Raila went there to make allegations because he knows his supporters have only one response, &ldquo;Ndio Baba!&rdquo;And instead of campaigning for his presidential bid, he took the opportunity to fire shots at the police. Raila and his foot soldiers singled out acting Interior CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i as the target of their new attacks.They also launched attacks on Communication Authority&rsquo;s Director General Francis Wangusi and National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Francis ole Kaparo. Wangusi and Kaparo&rsquo;s sin was just to warn against actions that may result in incitement, and lead the country into chaos.This is, however, not surprising, as the opposition has proven to be an outfit that thrives on chaos and confusion. They thrive on tarnishing institutions that are there to serve Kenyans, on an equal basis, regardless of their political affiliation. According to NASA, Matiang&rsquo;i was placed in the Interior ministry to hold the fort after the death of Joseph Nkaissery and allow Jubilee to use the police to rig the election. Their wild allegations are that Matiang&rsquo;i would use his position and use the police to influence how the IEBC does its job.It did not stop there. On Wednesday, Raila called another press conference to make another outrageous claim. This time round, he alleged that 42 police officers had been discharged from the force and recruited to help Jubilee steal the election.The police spokesman had a month earlier said these officers had been recruited to the National Intelligence Service, but it appears Raila missed that.Matiang&rsquo;i is not just another public officer but one who has stood out because of his diligence and dedication to all Kenyans. His short stint as acting Lands CS brought results, and he has totally reformed the Education sector.To cast aspersions on such an individual is not only wrong but also immoral. And to cast aspersions on our security organs is also immoral and should not be tolerated under any circumstance.Raila should focus on his campaigns and competition with President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of the August 8 polls. He should sell his ideals to Kenyans, who will be the ultimate decision-makers through the ballot.How many more rumours has Raila fed Kenyans? Can Kenyans ask him to substantiate his claims against Matiang&rsquo;i and the police? Why should such leaders, who thrive on rumours, even try convincing Kenyans that they can form an honest government?If the opposition has run out of ideas, it should not focus on tarnishing institutions and other forms of sideshows. It should tell Kenyans that it has failed in its quest and throw in the towel ahead of the imminent loss that is to hit it on August 8.The writer is a political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda