The Kenya boys&rsquo; hope to return to the international stage as they start their ICC Africa under-19 World Cup qualifier starting today the Nairobi Gymkhana.The 50-overs qualifiers which will run until July 8, will also double up as the Africa U19 Championships which will be played on a round robin (home-and-away) format. The event has attracted four countries including Ghana, Botswana, Uganda and hosts Kenya.The winner qualifies to compete at the International Cricket Council U19 World Cup due in January 2018 in New Zealand. The winner of this bonanza joins Namibia as African representatives at the World Cup. Namibia earned an automatic qualification to the 2018 ICC U19 World Cup following their superior eighth place finish at the 2016 World Cup.Led by former international player Jimmy Kamande, the U19 team are out to break the 15-year lull from the international arena. Kenya last featured at the global stage in 2002 when they had an automatic qualification due to their ODI status. Thereafter, the outfit hasn&rsquo;t gone past the qualification, only coming close when they finished second to Namibia in 2008. Kamande intimated that as much as all the four teams are keen to win and grab the sole ticket to the global show but Kenyans are more hungrier and ready to roar.&ldquo;When it comes to the under-19, the most important thing is to enjoy because this is where the future starts. Pressure is always there when you are representing your country but we should take it positively and deliver. The team that will stay composed on the pitch will win the game,&rdquo; said coach Jimmy Kamande.Uganda, who have played at the U19 World Cup twice has been a long time adversaries for Kenya and even though their team is being affected by the cold Nairobi weather, captain Kenneth Waiswa feels they will overcome this as time goes by, and post great results.Botswana, coached by former Kenyan international player Joseph Angara, qualified from Africa division two to feature in the tournament and have vowed to sprove a point. Captain Tharindu Perera said: &ldquo;I believe that in cricket, if it is your day, it&rsquo;s your day. We can&rsquo;t really say that a team with rich history is going to take it. Everyone in this tournament wants it and it&rsquo;s about who wants the title the most.&rdquo;Ghana arrive in the tournament as the underdogs but it is a team that can run riot if not cautiously handled. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have any pressure. It is all about showcasing our cricket skills. We can play cricket to the highest level,&rdquo; Ghana&rsquo;s coach intimated Francis Kofi Ghana&rsquo;s. Cricket Kenya (CK) president Jackie Janmohammed is excited that ICC granted Kenya the rights to host the international extravaganza.&ldquo;For a very long time Kenya has not hosted and we feel really good that more international cricket events,&rdquo; said Jackie, who also encouraged players to embrace the spirit of cricket.The Kenyan team comprises&mdash;Sachin Bhudia (captain), Aman Gandhi, Ankit Hirani, Abhishekh Chidambaran, Aveet Desai, Gerald Mwendwa, Dennis Musyoka, Yaksh Patel, Jayant Mepani, Maxwel Ager, Jasraj Kundi, Rahul Seedhar, Sukhdeep Singh and Thomas Ochieng.SCHEDULEToday: Kenya vs Ghana Tomorrow: Botswana vs KenyaJuly 3: Rest dayJuly 4: Botswana vs GhanaJuly 5: Botswana vs UgandaJuly 6: Rest dayJuly 7: Uganda vs GhanaJuly 8: Uganda vs Kenya