Politicians have resorted to theatrics to woo voters with 36 days to the general election.Unusual approaches have seen politicians buy goods at common markets, sit with children in classrooms and even eat at eateries they have not been to before.They are doing this during 'meet-the people' tours in their areas or across the country, for those who can afford it.Kiambu Governor William Kabogo interacts with sellers at a local market. /COURTESYKiambu Governor William Kabogo sells his agenda to boda boda riders. /COURTESYThe big questions is aren't afraid for their safety or the quality of food they eat, since they are known to frequent larger, more reputable establishments?President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale are some of the leaders who have taken these approaches.Others are Uasin Gishu woman representative candidate Gladys Shollei and Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero.Jubilee Party politicians Johnson Sakaja and Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko eat meat with President Uhuru Kenyatta at Kenyatta Market. /FILEDP William Ruto and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago share a meal at a local eatery. /COURTESYUhuru is the reason why Kenyans joke about 'eating nyama as others stare'. In September last year, he told Opposition leader Raila Odinga to get his house in order and leave Jubilee alone.More on this: [VIDEO] Get your house in order, let Jubilee feast on 'meat', Uhuru tells RailaAlso see: [VIDEO] Uhuru eats meat with Sakaja, Sonko during impromptu city tourOn June 1, Shollei went to Baringo for holiday just a day after being cleared by the IEBC to vie on a Jubilee ticket.The former judiciary chief registrar was spotted shopping at the Kabarnet open air market, on her way to Lake Bogoria Spa Report with her children.More on this: Shollei causes stir at Kabarnet market, shops with kids after IEBC clearanceUasin Gishu woman representative candidate Gladys Shollei shops at the open air market in Kabarnet town, Baringo county, June 1, 2017. /JOSEPH KANGOGOPoliticians have police escorts and should be accompanied wherever they go and security should be provided for presidential candidates, their spouses and their homes.Uhuru and Ruto have at least 200 and 45 security guards respectively, protecting them and their immediate families.Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero interacts with city residents at the place of business. /COURTESYNairobi Governor Evans Kidero and DG Jonathan Mueke eat at a local eatery. /COURTESYThe President has about 100 police officers from the elite Recce Squad of the paramilitary General Service Unit. Ruto is also guarded by the same elite unit and has about 50 police officers attached to him.