The government has released Sh5.2 billion to complete payment of the 2013-17 lecturer’s collective bargaining agreement signed in March. The CBA increased lecturers’ pay by 17.5 per cent. The CBA was signed on March 13 this year, ending a 54-day strike that began on January 19, after the government gave lecturers a Sh10 billion offer. In a statement, the Ministry of Education said it has released the funds. “I hereby make reference to the balance of Sh5.2 billion pending from the 2013-17 CBA for public universities. I am pleased to inform you that the National Treasury has granted authority to the ministry to incur the expenditure of Sh5.2 billion towards this course,” the statement reads. The ministry pointed out that it will wire the money before the end of July. Speaking to the Star, University Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wesonga yesterday said they are yet to receive the money. He vowed the strike will continue. “We will not go back to our jobs until such a time the money will reflect in our accounts. We have been patient enough and all we want now is implementation,” Wesonga said. Uasu has also called upon the government to intervene. Union officials are demanding that Education CS Fred Matiang’i probes university boards of management to establish if they have been misusing public resources. The union alleges that public universities have more than 2,500 ghost employees in their payrolls. Threats to union members Speaking during the demonstration, Uasu chairperson Muga K’olale further warned vice chancellors against intimidating employees who took part in the strike. He said they have received reports that some workers have been threatened with the sack for boycotting work. “We are aware that there are some universities where staff and lecturers are being threatened because of participating in the indusrial action. And I warn the management of those universities because they are interfering with the constitutional right of the lecturers,”K’olale said. The strike began on July 3. Uasu, Kenya University Staff Union and Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers participated in the industrial action. At least 33 public universities and their constituent colleges across the country with more than 500,000 students have been affected by the strike. Students undertaking examinations were among the hardest-hit.   