SO what exactly happened before the National Super Alliance manifesto was launched last Tuesday? A version of the manifesto sent out to the media had a glaring anomaly on its logo. Instead of the known motto, Mambo Yabadilika [Things are Changing], the motto on the logo read Mambo Yabadilikia. Sources whisper to Corridors that there were two versions of the manifesto and what was eventually launched was a compromise document. Those in the know say that although the running of Raila Odinga's presidential campaign is more professional this time around, there are loopholes that should still be sealed. Maybe NASA presidential campaign chairman Musalia Mudavadi should do something.***** PEOPLE can be so brazen at times. Even after the Star highlighted the story of Luhya civil servants being asked to bankroll President Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection, the organizers of the Sh150,000 a plate dinner went ahead undeterred. The initiative is being spearheaded by Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. It's understood that they have fired a warning salvo at civil servants who complain they are being coerced to contribute. They have sworn to get the moles. But even more surprising is that the investigative agencies didn't send sleuths, even after being tipped off.*****AN independent MP candidate in Mount Kenya has a problem with Jubilee and their apparent appetite to defend the electoral commission. The man was heard laughing at his competitor in Jubilee while drinking at a Ruiru pub. He lashed out at the Jubilee men, terming them "cheap", and claimed some of them might be on the IEBC payroll to defend the commission. "I always wonder why is it that when NASA raises concerns against the IEBC, you run to defend it. Or maybe you know something we don't know," the man said, clearly drunk. A case of in vino veritias?*****A senior ODM official was heard complaining to his counterpart in Jubilee that opposition chief Raila Odinga's son Raila Junior has taken over lucrative contracts in his dads presidential campaign. For instance, he complained that the public address system NASA is using is part of the services Junior is providing on contract. However, the system is allegedly provided at exorbitant costs and the payments must be made upfront. But the response from his counterpart was equally perplexing. The Jubilee insider claimed they are experiencing the same phenomenon. "Boss, we are also going through the same, since almost all tenders were taken over by a family and one man. We get T-shirts from abroad and you can guess the companies behind communications materials and other serious projects," he said.*****