The IEBC needs to be serious about the voters register, NASA principal Raila Odinga has said, noting his late son Fidel's name is still there. After KPMG conducted an audit, the number of dead voters was placed at more than a million. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said 88,602 were removed, bringing the total number of registered voters to 19,611,423. Read: Over one million dead voters could be in IEBC register, KPMG says in audit report Also read: IEBC expunges 88,602 dead voters from election register Speaking during an interview on Radio Maisha on Tuesday, Raila noted the electoral commission is charged with ensuring the election is free and fair. "The name of my late son Fidel is still in the IEBC register. Watu wetu wako macho. Wanafuatilia kila kitu ambacho IEBC inafanya. IEBC wako na changamoto kubwa ya kuhakikisha uchaguzi ni mzuri," he said in Kiswahili. This translates to: "Our people are keenly monitoring what the IEBC is doing. The commission has the tough task of making sure the poll is smooth." "VIOLENCE HOT SPOTS A SCAM" The Opposition leader further said the government termed some areas violence hot spots to prevent Kenyans from voting. The government assembled huge security machinery to man the election after narrowing areas prone to chaos down to 20 counties. They include Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Kisii, Homa Bay, Isiolo, Turkana, Bungoma, Kiambu, Kilifi, Lamu, Migori, Baringo, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Meru. "Hii ni ujanja ya kuleta polisi kwa wingi ili watu wakuwe na hofu. Hii ni njama imepangwa. Nakumbuka walikuwa Embakasi barracks kufanya huo mpango wa kuleta virugu," Raila said. "This is a trick to deploy many police officers so voters are scared...this was planned. I remember they went to Embakasi barracks to effect the plan to cause chaos." Raila said the Opposition will not entertain violence of any sort but noted deploying armies will intimidate the public. "Tunaona serikali inasema kutakuwa na ghasia. Sisi si watu wakutaka fujo...hii ni njama ya kutisha wananchi wasiende kupiga kura (The government says there will be violence. We are not the type of people who promote chaos...this is a scheme to scare voters)," he said. On June 19, Raila accused President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee administration of dragging KDF into politics by deploying more than 100 officers to Kakamega. The NASA presidential candidate said the soldiers were selected to rig the August 8 general election. But Deputy President William Ruto said they are using anything they can in a push for a coalition government. More on this: Jubilee has sent 100 KDF soldiers to Kakamega in vote-rigging plan - Raila EU observers said violence is likely to take place by government spokesman Eric Kiraitha assured steps have been taken to keep the poll fair and Kenyans safe. Read: No cause for worry on elections, Kenya says after EU warning "WE WILL RESPECT AL GHURAIR RULING" On the controversial ballots papers printing tender awarded to Dubai's Al Ghurair company, Raila said they will accept the court's ruling. Attorney General Githu Muigai warned the country will likely plunge into a constitutional crisis should the court cancel the printing. NASA wants the tender nullified but Jubilee and the IEBC have opposed the petition. Read: Cancelling Al Ghurair tender recipe for crisis, Githu warns Raila said: "Tutaheshimu uamuzi wa mahakama...tutakubaliana na uamuzi wao (We will respect the court...we will agree with them)... that is the rule of law." The ruling will be made on Friday.