After pulling out of disputed Jubilee governor primaries, Peter Kenneth stuck in the race as an independent because he feels Nairobi has "serious issues" that his primary rival Mike Sonko and the incumbent Evans Kidero (the front-runners) cannot address. He spoke to the Star about his vision to devolve services to the constituencies and restore the city's glory.  What informed your decision to run for Nairobi governor? I think Nairobi city is an important place to be. It has more than 50 per cent of the country’s GDP. So Nairobi is an equally important place to try and run and manage. And I consider it too important to be left to the people who are there right now. First, the current governor has been a consistent failure in the last four and a half years, and I believe there are others who are trying and have no proven record and would be an unmitigated disaster if they became governors.  When you lost to Senator Mike Sonko in the Jubilee primaries, people thought you were going to drop your bid altogether. Why did you decide to run as an independent candidate? I made it absolutely clear that there were sham elections. We pulled out halfway because there was circular voting. It means people were voting 20, 30, 40 times. As you know, the party did not conduct its election using the party register. They made it an open field and they were not ready for the nominations. So, many people voted many times, and we pulled out in the course of the day. So I did not lose, I pulled out. The election was stolen. I am not bitter because I never lost any nominations.  Did you lodge a complaint with the Jubilee party appeals tribunal? I wrote a very long letter on the day of the nominations to the party that it was shambolic. That letter is still available. They never responded.  In your view, what problems have Nairobians faced in the past four years that the current administration has been in place? First of all, the current administration has been allocated and collected revenue of about Sh100 billion in the last four years. That translates to Sh69 million a day. Can they show us anything they have done? In the (Nairobi governor candidates') debate, the governor had the audacity to say about 90 per cent of that goes to salaries and remuneration, that is current expenses. Which means he has no agenda for Nairobi. That in itself means he has no money in his government to develop Nairobi. Nairobi has serious issues with traffic jams. And I am committed to ease off traffic jams in Nairobi within 18 months. The city has serious garbage collection issues, which are an eyesore and out there for anybody to see. We have a cholera outbreak because of hygiene. We have serious water issues. You cannot sustain a big city with a population of about five million without water. Nairobi has serious health care issues. And you can clearly see with the response to cholera that there is a serious issue with our health care. Same with our education facilities. We have a high number of unemployed people in Nairobi and we are doing nothing about it. And these are the issues I am saying I want to address.  How will you fix these problems? First issue is garbage. I will clear up garbage in Nairobi in 90 days from our streets and estates. I have the managerial skills and capacity to do that. It is a question of just arranging to collect it. I was born and brought up in this city, when garbage was being collected. So it has been done before and it can be done again. Second issue is traffic jams. In 18 months, I will deal with the traffic jam. I will do away with the 16 roundabouts that clog the city and one crossroad at Juja-Pangani so that traffic can flow. Of course, in the long term, what we need is a light rail, which can allow Nairobians to commute without having to drive. Because even if you ease transport, people will still buy more cars. So you have to think of a public transport system that addresses these issues, and light rail is the immediate one, which I will do in the medium to long-term, that is after three years. Third issue is water. On this issue, Ndakaini dam and Sasimua dam should be able to supply 80 per cent of Nairobians with water. But we lose a lot of water in distribution and cartels. So my team is proposing to track the water distribution pipeline, the same way an oil pipeline is done, so that we reduce wastage and eliminate the cartels that block water from flowing. And that way we will make sure that within one year, most estates in Nairobi, if not all, have water. Fourth issue is health care and education. We propose to rehabilitate our schools and health facilities. Remember, I was educated in a city school. So I understand how it used to work and we need to take it back to their old high performance standard. If that works, parents will not take their children to far-flung schools. So, it also eases traffic if you rehabilitate schools. Today, our health care facilities are just consulting rooms for doctors. That is when they are not on strike. There is nothing else. There is no medicine, they are just consulting rooms. So these are things we have to work on. But the core of our manifesto is on further devolution within the 17 areas of representation in Parliament. I would like to see fire engines, garbage collection vehicles and physical planners in every constituency. I would like to see revenue that is collected in constituencies — by the way of licences and rates — retained in those constituencies, so that we can develop a service delivery point from that revenue. That can at least also empower young people within those constituencies to work on drainages, walking pavements and roads. That way, we can develop Nairobi at the same level.  How will you deal with the huge wage bill the governor has been talking about? You know, the governor has been giving lots of excuses. I would never preside over a management team that simply spends everything on salaries and recurrent expenses, because it means you have nothing in the kitty for development. So you have to look at the expenses account and see where you can rationalise to make a savings. Sometimes profit centres are derived from expenses by managing expenses, such as maintenance, travel, all those sorts of things. And again, looking at the base revenue, to increase revenue, what this governor has done is to increase licence fees, punishing businesses rather than allowing them to grow so he can derive more revenue. He is doing the opposite. He is looking at things in a short-term way. Revenue authorities all over the world try to increase the base. So he [the governor] needs to create a conducive environment for people to trade so he can collect more revenue. But he has done it the opposite way. The existing businesses have been charged more and that is why there are problems collecting.  What will you do about the Sh72 billion the governor says the county is owed by the national government? You know, he is riding on an existing debt and saying he is handicapped because the debt has not been paid. What he has been saying is owed to the council is rates that were owed a long time ago, before devolution came to place. And yes, they are owed, but there is no need for him to keep making noise about it. He should have made arrangements on how the government can start paying that debt. And there are many ways one can use. It could be transferred into contingency guarantees, and he could have borrowed elsewhere with a guarantee from the government to achieve the same thing as if he was collecting. But he did nothing about it. He found the debt there, he is now saying he failed because he didn’t collect it. It was not part of the revenue in his books or part of allocation. Of course, it will help if the money was paid, but it needs a governor who will engage the government in ways the debt can be paid.  People say there are deep-rooted cartels at City Hall that a governor cannot succeed without heeding. How will you deal with them? No. Kidero and his team from Mumias are a cartel unto themselves at City Hall, and that is the truth. If you have no political price to pay, why would you have cartels around? Unless you are involved with them. Are you telling me that he cannot deal, at his level, with what is transpiring? Unless he, himself, is involved. Cartels only thrive because the people managing where they are thriving are involved. But if the people managing are not involved, why would a cartel thrive?  What are your plans on slum upgrading? Slum upgrading is a very important thing and it has to happen. In my view, it is a medium- to long-term project. We need not rush it. We need to plan it very well. It creates the greatest opportunity for Nairobi. If you look at the existing city council estates, they occupy so much land that we could actually re-develop. But first, develop them to suit those who are there now and to make them comfortable, because they then surrender the greatest opportunity that you have. Look at Kaloleni or Bahati estates. They occupy huge chunks of land yet on just five acres, if you just did five high-rise flats, you could actually accommodate them and you will be left with lots of land, which would allow you to build more flats and probably resettle people who live in the slums. The issue that has always arisen is, at what cost? The current county government, because they are not pro-people and they are for commercial ventures, are proposing to do the same at a cost that the current inhabitants of those estates cannot afford. That is what we would reverse. We would want to actually build flats for those people for free or at minimum costs, same as what they are paying to the county government today.  How will you help micro and small businesses? I think the county government has to balance between the appetite for revenue and building businesses. We will come in with a service charter that says you will get this within these days. If you apply for a licence, if you want to do business, this is what it takes so that it is predictable. You know business thrives in a predictable environment. If you want to build flats out there, you have to know you will get this approval within these number of days. That is the predictability I want to create.  Security is not a devolved function, but what would you do to improve the security of the city to attract investors and make businesses grow? The most important thing is to have a situation where the two levels of governments collaborate and work well. The national government is housed and based in Nairobi, so co-operation can be achieved effortlessly and is in the national government's interest. So it is just a question of cooperation.  Many buildings have collapsed in Nairobi in the recent past and killed many people, and promises to demolish unsafe structures have been in vain. What will you do differently? The governor talks too much and does very little. He only talks when there is a disaster. If you mark a building for demolition for safety, you have to make sure it is demolished. Even if the owner goes to court, you will have enough evidence to show the danger. Remember, courts only favour the national good not the individual good. In my devolution plan, I want physical planners in every constituency, so that we can arrest the situation early enough. At the moment, we capture the situation after the event, when already damage and loss of life has occurred. But if we have physical planners in every constituency, then you capture every building that is coming up, instead of waiting for officers in City Hall to go and inspect.  The number of street urchins in Nairobi has grown really fast in the last four years. How do you intend to get rid of them? Unemployment is high. We will create a conducive business environment so local and foreign investors can invest in Nairobi to create jobs. And in our devolution, we will have a new market in every constituency so our informal sector can have a better place to trade in. Most young people on the streets are highly talented. We want to ensure we have talent centres, whether it is in sports or arts, so they can develop their talents and gain from them. This will reduce the number of people going to the streets. But remember, the defunct city council had rehabilitation centres for street children. And kids went to them and eventually got into schools. And stories have been written about CEOs who were on the streets but went to school through rehabilitation. So rehabilitation is very important and we have to go through it. Remember under Narc administration, this had started, but when devolution came, it died.  Your opponents, especially Miguna Miguna, have accused you of mismanaging the firms you have previously managed. How do you respond to these allegations? I dare you to ask Miguna to table any iota of evidence. Yapping in press conferences and in TV analyses is farther from the truth. If he is honest enough, if he is a man enough, let him table what he yaps. I have had an impeccable tenure of service to the nation in my time as MD, as CEO of a big reinsurance company, as chairman of KFF, as an assistant minister and as an MP. And therefore, if anybody has any iota of evidence, he should not be yelling, let them table it.  Today, if you do not belong to NASA or Jubilee, your chances of election are perceived to be minimal. Latest polls release by TIFA placed you a distant third in the race for Nairobi governor. TIFA is a discredited pollster. It is a one-person show by someone who, for circumstances you can’t know, left Ipsos. Check TIFA results for Kiambu nominations. You will be surprised. It was the opposite. I think, the right people to do the polls are the voters themselves. This is the first election where you have more independent candidates than the two bigger parties put together. It is a confirmation that the nominations of the two parties were a sham and that this is the first time and a big danger in the history of political parties that if they get their act well, in future nobody will take part in the primaries. People will just go independently because primaries have proven to be a waste of time. However, the most important thing is that Nairobians have a choice. And they can determine where they want to be in the next five years. And they have a choice between the bad, the ugly and the good.  Some Jubilee politicians say Peter Kenneth is a man out to divide votes and deny Sonko victory. People who will vote for me would never vote for that particular candidate. There are people who reason and rationalise. So there are no votes that are up for grabs or being split. What I know is that we are presenting our agendas for the people of Nairobi to decide who is qualified, more sensible and more hardworking, and who will implement what they so much deserve.  What would you tell Nairobians as your parting shot? Nairobians can rely and count on me because what the city needs is not just good ideas, but somebody who will implement those good ideas. That has lacking in a big way in Nairobi. And that yes, we have a myriad of problems, but I will work on them and I will give a time-frame on how to work on them and how to achieve that time-frame. 