Nasa flagbearer Raila Odinga on Friday alleged &ldquo;an audacious plot&rdquo; by Jubilee and top military commanders to rig the election. The government called that fiction.Raila detailed the so-called scheme and said NASA will not participate in the August 8 General Election &ldquo;unless we get an assurance the elections will be free, fair and credible&rdquo;.His spokesman Salim Lone later clarified that NASA will not boycott the polls.Raila said military officers were being prepared to disconnect electricity and water in towns and cities to create confusion and anarchy. He cited Mathare and Kibera in Nairobi and said the aim was to force his supporters from the city.He said they would also transport fake ballot papers and register telephone lines in the names of dead soldiers.&ldquo;Every aspect of the elaborate democratic polling system put in place over the last four years will be undermined and a military operation conducted to deliver the presidency to Uhuru,&rdquo; Raila told a press conference at Panafric Hotel in Nairobi.Raila also released to the media what he said was a string of communication, on letterhead, among military commanders, confirming rigging plans.A military source, who didn&rsquo;t want to be named because he had not been authorised to issue a statement, said the letters were fabricated.The Star could not independently verify their authenticity, though some mobile numbers and names matched.Yesterday, President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto said Kenyans will go to polls despite boycott threat.They said NASA senses defeat and is inventing all manner of reasons to discredit the elections. Kenyatta said the mandate of the military is well known and respected by the executive.&ldquo;We have no experience of planning coups. Kenyans know the master of coups, those who have used the army before to try to get power,&rdquo; he said.With nine days to the polls, the former Prime Minister sensationally alleged Uhuru, with military help, has set up &ldquo;an audacious plan to use force to subvert the election.&ldquo;We have received damning information and concrete evidence,&rdquo; Raila told a press conference at Nairobi&rsquo;s Panafric Hotel. He said army officers loyal to Jubilee and fresh recruits will be involved in the rigging.He was joined by his running mate and former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka.The ODM chief, who is making a fourth run for State House, released what he called a string of correspondence among top military commanders, on military letterhead.Raila said the military plans to hand over power to Kenyatta through illicit and unconstitutional means. The opposition leader said the military has already finalised an election deployment plan, with emphasis on Uhuru&rsquo;s central Kenya backyard, to fix the outcome.One of the letters made available to the media is titled &ldquo;Election military personnel point of contact county level&rdquo;. It names five gives top military commanders to be deployed to Central Kenya during the election period. A letter dated July 17 is allegedly authored by Major J G Wainaina and gives suspicious deployment of senior military officers to Uhuru&rsquo;s political bedrock. In the letter, the overall military contact person for Central Region is given as Col J.A. Ouda while Kiambu county will be under Lt Col V.N. Mburu. Muranga county will be under Maj V.M, Gitonga, Kirinyaga under P.N. Njenga, while Lt Col Masai will be in charge of Nyeri county.Kalonzo read out the names and contacts of army officers he claimed would be focal points in Central Kenya, to aid the rigging.A verification of the contacts by the Star, yesterday showed that the mobile numbers given corresponded with the names. The Star has established that Col Ouda was among top military personnel that were conferred with the Moran of the Order of the Burning Speer during Jamhuri Day celebrations in 2016.The same year Col Mburu led the KDF recruitment in Nyamira county and this year in Makueni county.&ldquo;Central Kenya is crucial to this operation, which will drive out NASA agents in order to announce near 100 percent votes for Uhuru,&rdquo; Raila said.He produced seven letters, all with KDF headquarters letterheads, in what appeared to be a trove of internal correspondences. Another letter from Army headquarters by Brigadier J.M. Mwangi provides deployment details for the &ldquo;Contingency plan for general election 2017&rdquo;. It gives orders for the attachment of 120 soldiers to Embakasi Garrison immediately after ongoing training.&ldquo;The 226new soldiers currently training at Mariakani Brks will remain at their previous location until otherwise directed. MAR GAR to employ them as per request,&rdquo; reads the letter marked &ldquo;RESTRICTED&rdquo;.Another letter dated June 28, titled &ldquo;Dumisha Utulivu 1 LOGS support,&rdquo; lists 20 pieces of equipment issued, suggesting deployment to operational and violent areas. They include Land Cruiser closed-signal frequency jammers, electric shock flexible batons, stun guns, hammers, power saws, metal steel cutters, 50 riot clubs and whips.Yesterday the opposition chief linked the equipment to what he called a military plot to cut off power and water in Mathare and Kibera during the polls and force people out of the capital. &ldquo;The new soldiers don&rsquo;t have networks in the military. Because they are new, they will readily take any orders,&rdquo; Raila said. &ldquo;At the same time they cannot be identified, nor can they communicate with other soldiers who might not be privy to the plot and would oppose it.&rdquo; Raila said soldiers will also transport to rural areas ballot papers &ldquo;code named Special Transit Goods or STG.&rdquo; The soldiers being deployed, he said, must be Regime Friendly (RF) and from the correct tribe (TB). They will register telephone lines in the names of dead soldiers, he said. &ldquo;A team of 1+12, meaning command and 12 fighters, are the ones to be given lines to be registered in the names of dead soldiers,&rdquo; the opposition chief said. Raila said after completing their work, the soldier will probably be deployed outside the country to ensure they cut contacts. Their accounts will be credited with money.A military source, who didn&rsquo;t want to be named because he had not been authorised to issue a statement, said the letters were a fabrication.&ldquo;The CDF (Chief of Defence Forces) does not issue commands to troops. His instructions are communicated to Formation Commanders who in turn issue instructions to their rank and file,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Secondly, a letter from the military can make no reference to State House, only instructions from the CnC (Commander in chief, who is the President) based on a meeting of the National Security Council. Addressing a rally in Kapsabet Showgrounds in Nandi county, Uhuru said Raila and his team were not interested in polls but wanted to cause chaos and join the government through the backdoor.&ldquo;We cannot allow the good name of our military, whose image is well known all over the world, to be tarnished by politics. This is why we say to Mr Odinga, Shame on you,&rdquo; Uhuru said. &ldquo;Our security officers are protecting our borders and giving you security.