The Law Society of Kenya is a creature of statute. Its objects and functions are well articulated under Section 4 of the Law Society Act, among others, to deal with the welfare of members, advise the government on matters to do with the law and the Constitution, and to play its role as a defender of the public interest.For many years the LSK has acted as the conscience of society. It was the voice of the voiceless, the defender of the downtrodden and bulwark against the purveyors of impunity that threatened to destroy our national fabric. In days gone by the LSK would sneeze and the entire country would catch cold. That seems to be no more as many issues that concern the public and members go unattended as the Council of the Law Society seems to have abdicated its responsibility for other things.The current president of the LSK seems not to understand the objects of the professional body. Two years down the road, he seems to still be finding his way around Gitanga Road (LSK Secretariat offices) completely unable to manage the giant society. He also seems to lack the necessary backbone expected of the president of the Law Society to tackle current issues bedeviling not just the members but the public as well.On the other hand his deputy seems to be very busy at the Jubilee headquarters handling party matters that have very little to do with the members of the Law Society of Kenya.This current state of affairs has left the LSK direction-less and completely dead. A case in point is where the Court of Appeal was grappling with one of the most important decisions in Kenyan history, on where the announcement of presidential votes is to be done and the place of the chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in the entire mix.One would have expected the LSK to come on board as a friend of the court to give pure and unadulterated advice to the court on the issues of law. Like many other cases in the past they were missing in action. They are completely unable to discern the times we are living in.As I write this, civil servants earning taxpayer money and contrary to the civil service code of conduct are actively engaged in partisan political campaigns on behalf of the government &ndash; totally unchecked.Apart from some feeble attempt through correspondence to the public service, the Law Society has not taken action. A serious president would have by now filed a case in court for the said civil servants to show cause why action should not be taken against them for abusing the Public Officers Ethics Act (No 3 of 2013 ) and Leadership and Integrity Act ( 2012 ).Finally, the Law Society&rsquo;s role is ensuring the independence, integrity, honour and competence of lawyers, establishing standards and programmes for the education of and competence of lawyers, and of applicants, and regulating the practice of law.The Law Society committees are no longer functional for lack of facilitation and lack of support. That void is being filled by the Nairobi Bar, led by a serious chairman who understands what a law society should be doing.A dead Law Society is a threat to national peace and security. The maintenance of law and order does not just depend on state organs, but professional bodies such as the Law Society, whose function is to interpret the law and the Constitution.When the Law Society is dead, a critical part of the just rule of law is dead. This gives purveyors of impunity a field day in carrying out their nefarious activities to the detriment of Kenyans.Mwamu is the immediate former President of the East Africa Law Society