President Uhuru Kenyatta hurriedly left Kisumu yesterday as NASA supporters shouted and threw stones. In Kabarnet, hostile Jubilee crowds forced NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga to abandon his rally. It was the first time the rival presidential candidates faced such open belligerence since campaigns began. They ventured into each other's bastions, with 26 days to the August 8 General Election.IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has warned all candidates and supporters against violence. Uhuru had just finished presiding over the ground breaking for the Sh15 billion Kisumu Breweries by EABL when residents in Raila's backyard shouted NASA slogans.The event ended in chaos after Deputy President William Ruto was forced to cut short his speech when residents booed and heckled. He had asked voters to support Jubilee and said the opposition had failed to disclose its agenda.&ldquo;Hatutaki Ruto! Hatutaki Ruto!" the crowd chanted, forcing him to hand the microphone to Kenyatta who calmed the crowd and delivered his speech without interruption.As soon as the President finished, part of the crowd surged toward the dais where they danced and chanted NASA slogans.The President and DP quickly departed for the Kenya Pipeline Company depot where they commissioned the Sinendet-Kisumu pipeline (Line 6) and the Kisumu Oil Jetty. Earlier, Ruto had earlier been jeered at Ahero town in Nyando subcounty where also was forced to cut short his speech. Here as well, residents listened to Uhuru speak.XHEADIn Kabarnet, Raila, Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi were shouted down when they alighted from two choppers to address a crowd of thousands.Kabarnet residents said the heckling was retaliation for heckling of the Uhuru-led Jubilee team's visit to Kisumu.Raila had just started speaking when the crowd, some people wearing Jubilee T-shirts, started yelling.The ODM boss carried on, criticising Jubilee for not keeping its campaign promises."Me as Joshua, I am God sent. I will make sure I take this nation to the promised land called Canaan," the presidential candidate said as the angry uproar got louder and louder.Raila was forced to end his speech and hand the microphone to Mudavadi who urged respect for leaders of all political persuasions."We are not going to achieve anything by heckling our leaders," Mudavadi said in brief remarks. He handed the microphone to CCM leader Isaac Rutto. "If you continue shouting like this, then this meeting shall end," Rutto said, struggling to make his point. The crowd drowned him out, calling him a traitor for joining NASA.Some people in the crowd threw NASA-branded caps to the dais.Police had difficulty controlling the crowd.When Raila, Mudavadi and Ruto quickly left the venue, tension was still high in Kabarnet town as supporters from both sides hurled insults.At Ahero, Uhuru commissioned construction of the 84km Ahero-Kisii road, which he said has claimed many lives in accidents. The project is funded by the Africa Development Bank and Kenya.The road is designed along with several feeder roads: Oyugis-Kendu Bay (20km), Oyugis-Rangwe-Rodi Kopany (30km), Misambo-Ekerenyo (15km), Sondu-Nyabondo/Nyakach (11km), Oyugis-Gamba (7km) and other access and link roads totalling 25 kilometres.The Sh9.4 billion roads will be built by the Third Engineering Bureau of China Construction Company.The President urged residents to maintain peace before, during and after elections.He said in a second term he will continue bringing development to the region.&ldquo;As the electorate, you have the right to vote for a leader of your choice as long as you maintain peace. We are focused on having a peaceful poll and continued development," he said.Kenyatta urged residents to support Kenya Breweries as it will greatly benefit them. He said 11,000 jobs will be created and farmers will also reap.He said the company will target sorghum farmers in Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Nyeri, Machakos and Tharaka Nithi counties.The company's investment accords with state efforts to fight illicit brew and liquor, the President said.The factory will crate business and job opportunities for Kisumu and the region at large, he said.&ldquo;My aim as President is to see development in all corners of this country and end poverty," Kenyatta said.At Kisumu Bus Park, the President said he wants to see all Kenyans living in peace and united as brothers and sisters.&ldquo;I am a Kenyan like any other citizen and I have a right to ask for votes from you. How many are ready to stand with us on August 8?" he asked.The head of state sent his peace message to Kisumu residents, urging them to protect the country.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have any other Kenya to run to after burning this one. We will remain here therefore we need to protect it,&rdquo; Uhuru said.He added political competition is not enmity and should not cause citizens to destroy what they have built for years.In Ahero, where he received warm welcome, Uhuru reassured Kenyans of a peaceful election, saying calm and credibility is all Jubilee wants.He told his opponents to put Kenyans' interests first and whoever is defeated should wait for another five years. Vote, go home and wait for the results, Kenyatta said."Let us put our country first by avoiding activities likely to fuel violence. We are one nation and there's no need to fight each other," Uhuru told the cheering crowd.The electorate has the right to elect whomever they want and every candidate has the right to sell their policies peacefully across the country.His administration is determined to promote development and improve livelihoods, the President said.