President Uhuru Kenyatta has repeated the claim that the opposition is plotting to boycott the August general election.Addressing a rally in Kabarnet Baringo County on Sunday, Uhuru, however, said an election cannot be halted because of one individual.The National Super Alliance (NASA) had threatened to boycott the elections if the appeal by IEBC went through.The appeal was that the presidential results be announced at the constituency level, a case that was won by the Opposition last month."Tumenyamaza kwa muda mrefu kwa ajili ya Heshima. Sisi kama wana Jubilee tuko tayari kupokea uamuzi wa wananchi kupitia kura zao lakini wasifikiri ya kwamba tuna waogopa. Bwana kitendawili hatukuogopi."Hio mambo yako ya kusimama kila saa kututishia... Utafute wengine wa kutisha sio sisi. Hatutishiki bwana tukinyamaza ni kwa ajili ya heshima maana tunataka amani. Sisi tumesema hadharani tukishindwa tutakubali yeye mpaka wa leo hajaongea, hajatamka, hajasema eeeh.. mbona?" Uhuru said.Loosely translated to, "(we have been silent for a while now because of respect. As Jubilee, we are ready to accept people's decision through their votes and it is not because we fear them. Mr story teller (Raila) we are not afraid of you. The behaviour of standing and threatening everyone, look for someone else to threaten not us. We are not afraid we are silent because we respect and want peace. We have publicly declared we shall concede defeat if so but for him, up to now he has not said or uttered anything why?)"Uhuru noted that Jubilee will not tolerate "funny characters" from people who are seeking selfish gains."We are democrats and we shall abide by the will of the people and not by the machination of a few people going around doing all sorts of things," he said.Uhuru's comments come after he cautioned the Judiciary against aiding the opposition to frustrate the election process.He said the courts are increasingly getting entangled in the attempts by the opposition to delay the August 8.Read: UhuRuto caution Judiciary not to aid NASA sabotage polls