With 12 days left to the General Election, the Homa Bay governor’s contest is a two-horse race. Governor Cyprian Awiti (ODM) and Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, an independent, are neck and neck. The candidates, together with their supporters, have intensified campaigns. They are promising to uplift residents’ lives and to improve the county’s economy. Despite the onslaught by his opponents, Awiti said he was proud of his achievements. He said even though he faced many challenges he also delivered a number of 2013 election promises. Awiti is banking on the projects he implemented to help him win. They include tarmacking of Kadongo-Gendia road and distribution of hatcheries to youth and women’s groups. The governor also employed more than 1,000 nurses. Awiti installed solar streetlights in trading centres, he employed ECDE teachers and build classrooms. However, Magwanga says Awiti has completely failed. “Reelecting the incumbent will be a disaster. Despite the county receiving Sh25 billion since devolution started, there is nothing to show for it. Basic issues have not been addressed,” Magwanga told the Star in an earlier interview. The MP accused Awiti and his government of misusing public funds and nepotism, charges he denies.  STRONG MANAGER Kasipul was named the best constituency nationally in the management of the National Government Constituency Development Fund. Magwanga said this proves he is capable of better managing Homa Bay. The MP said he is a more experienced leader tan his rivals. He promised as governor to replicate his success as an MP for the past three terms to raise the county’s profile. “My main agenda is to introduce quality and affordable healthcare, I will increase bursary allocations by five percent. I also plan to boost agricultural production by setting up an irrigation scheme,” Magwanga said. Recently, Awiti admitted his administration had not performed to expectations and asked for another term to enable him complete some projects he had initiated. The governor said devolution was a new thing and “nobody was taken to school to study it.” Magwanga said, “Awiti was unable to implement some projects he initiated. The county has lost millions of shillings through corruption. This is why he must be sent home,” Magwanga said. The other governor candidates are Tom Alila (Jubilee Party) and Medo Misama (independent). Their campaigns have been low-key, their presence has not been felt on the ground. Awiti enjoys the support of Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, all the eight MPs in the county as well as Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang. Wanga has been championing the six-piece-suit voting system. She said it is an effective way to ensure ODM has more leaders elected on the party ticket. But when party leader and NASA presidential Raila Odinga visited the country, he steered clear of the debate and recognised the independent candidates as one of “his own”. Violence has marred the battle for the governor’s seat. In May, supporters of Magwanga blocked Governor Awiti’s access to Homa Bay town. Riot police used tear gas to disperse the demonstrators who chanted anti-Awiti slogans. The protesters said Awiti has under-performed and does not deserve a second term. They said Homa Bay Hospital is in bad condition.