NASA leader Raila Odinga has asked IEBC to follow the law requiring that presidential election results are announced at constituency tallying centers. He warned IEBC chief Ezra Chiloba that Kenyans will not forgive him if he is used by any forces to rig the August 8 elections in favour of any party. "The High Court made a clear ruling on the matter and Kenyans will not accept anything contrary to the decision." Raila said during a rally in Eldoret that the media and anyone else must be allowed to tally results as they will be announced at the polling stations. This came after the electoral agency said it will not give updates of results as they stream in from constituencies but will only tally and declare final results. "The results announced by the constituency returning officers will be relayed through the media and the IEBC website," Chiloba said on Tuesday. Read: IEBC will not issue regular updates on presidential poll results - Chiloba Kalonzo Musyoka (NASA DP candidate), co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (Amani), Isaac Rutto (CCM), and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) were present. The Wiper leader told Chiloba to desist from any acts of impunity and allow constituency returning officers to announce results as ordered by the courts. "Let him not joke with lives of Kenyans who are tired of election rigging," Kalonzo said at the well-attended rally. Raila said Chiloba must tell Kenyans clearly they the IEBC will abide by the high court ruling on the matter. He said: "With only eleven days to go and from Eldoret, we want to send a message to the whole of Kenya that the country is ripe for change." The ODM leader told his supporters that no Kenyans should accept to be left behind when the country makes history in next month's polls. Backed Mandago The NASA leaders surprised the rally attendees by supporting the re-election of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. Mandago is the Jubilee candidate. He is facing tough competition from independent candidate Ezekiel Bundotich alias Buzeki. Kalonzo declared that if he had a vote in Eldoret he would have voted for Governor Jackson Mandago. Raila, 72, revisited the issue of President Uhuru Kenyatta skipping their debate saying he was ready to face the head of state. "Had he come, we would have questioned each other on how Kenyans are suffering due to the high cost of living including the shortage of Unga." The ODM leader said he would have told Uhuru that Kenyans are suffering to the corruption that is ruining the country. The NASA presidential candidate said he is already preparing to take over power in the next few weeks adding that "the question is not if but when NASA wins". Raila said he will immediately embark on industrial development in the country to create jobs for the more than 12 million unemployed youth. "We will give our youth opportunity for upwards social mobility so that they improve their lives." He said the NASA administration will initiate a low-cost housing scheme that will see more Kenyans afford proper houses. Pledge to single mothers The opposition chief reiterated his pledge to help single women get opportunities that will enable them to earn a living to fend for their families. "When we take over the government in September, education will be completely free with the government providing everything." Raila said North Rift being the home to the country's top athletes, NASA will put up sports academies in all counties to tap talents. He said retired athletes will also be respected and made to live well throughout their lives. The opposition chief said Kenya was ranked third most corrupt country with no hope for a better future if bad governance continues. "I will soon lead Kenyans to the promised land of Canaan with a better future for all, no corruption and other ills," Raila said. "Whoever wants to go back to Egypt should board the bus known as Jubilee where the driver is drunk and the conductor is a thief." Kalonzo said that after the presidential debate, NASA is on course to win the polls adding that they will ensure peace during the process. He said each of the NASA parties will have an agent at all the 41,000 polling stations. "All of us know that Rift Valley is no longer a Jubilee zone. Residents want to be part of the change that is about to occur." Constituency results final For his part, Wetang'ula said the electoral agency should know that the results tallied at the constituency will be final. He cautioned acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi to stop exhibiting raw power and intolerance that Kenyans can not accept. Wetang'ula said people in Kerio Valley were suffering because of insecurity and yet Jubilee was giving them false promises. Rutto said the polls would be a defining election to cause Kenyans do away with poverty and tribalism. The governor said the farmers in the region were suffering in the wake of declining milk and maize production. He said Jubilee had forgotten the plight of farmers when the administration went ahead to source maize from Mexico. "We elected them thinking they are good leaders but they have conned us," the governor said. He said Kenyans should not be threatened by CS Matiangi and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. Wetangula and Rutto also backed the re-election of Mandago. Also read: How Kenya will announce presidential election results  