Less than 20 days to the August 8 polls, we are uncertain if that process will go on and, if it does, whether the results will be credible to avoid a post-election crisis as was the case in 2007-08. The dispute over the printing of presidential ballot papers in respect of which the Court of Appeal delivered its verdict on Thursday to allow the printing of presidential ballots by Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing Company was the most poignant pointer of the major obstacles to a free and fair election. However, there are numerous other cases pending in court, whose verdicts may yet throw new spanners into the works.At first mention, the concern expressed by Jubilee Party officials and neutral pundits that the litany of court cases might impede the general election seems like political paranoia. However, a closer look at the decisions that have already been made, and an assessment of their likely impact suggests that there is cause for Kenyans to worry. I am aware of at least 12 cases filed by Cord or NASA and their surrogates, whose verdicts will have major impact on the forthcoming election. The most important decision, in my view, was delivered last month by the Court of Appeal to uphold the judgement of the High Court, declaring that presidential election results declared by Constituency Returning Officers are final. Maina Kiai, Khelef Khalif and Tirop Kitur filed this case. The second important case was filed by Cord to challenge the audit of the voter register by KPMG, on the ground that it was not qualified to do so. Although Cord lost the case and the audit of the register concluded, the controversy over the voter register is yet to end.As regards the printing of the ballots, I am aware of at least five cases litigated before the Public Procurement Review Board, the High Court. In regards to technology, which the Court of Appeal in the Maina Kiai Judgement declared must be the principal mode of conducting the general election, there are three cases pending in the High Court. This gloomy scenario is further complicated by two other cases. In one of them, NASA is challenging IEBC&rsquo;s decision to transfer and gazette returning officers, whilst in the other, a voter is seeking a declaration that presidential election results be announced within seven hours after the closure of the voting exercise.From the outset, we acknowledge the undoubted right of any political party or citizen to present any grievance before court. Indeed, the twin rights of securing protection of law and access to justice, enshrined in Articles 27 and 48 of the Constitution are two of the most precious constitutional rights in any working democracy. Yet, even by our society&rsquo;s litigious standards, the legal challenges facing the August 8 polls are both unprecedented and disconcerting. Of greater significance, besides the high number, the timing and the subject matter of these cases lend credence to the rising concerns that the ultimate objective of these cases is to delegitimise in advance the outcome of the presidential election, which would pave way to nullification of a political victory by Jubilee candidate President Uhuru Kenyatta.To my mind, these concerns and fears are valid particularly with respect to the presidential election. Let me explain. Under Article 86 of the Constitution, the IEBC is required to ensure, among other things, that the voting system is simple, accurate, verifiable, the votes are counted, tabulated and the results announced promptly, and appropriate structures and mechanisms to eliminate electoral malpractice are put in place. The Elections Act, 2011, which was extensively amended last year provides the practical means for the IEBC to realise the principles and goals set out in Article 86. Further, Section 109 of the Elections Act empowers the IEBC to make regulations on how to discharge its mandate, and give effect to the purpose and objectives set out in the Constitution and the Act. In other words, the IEBC is the executive and technical institution vested with the responsibility to realise the principles, purposes and objectives set out in the Constitution and the Elections Act, hence its power to make regulations on how to do its job. Indeed, this responsibility is so onerous that Article 138 expressly requires the IEBC to tally and verify the vote count and declare the results. And it has up to seven days after the presidential election to declare the result. Consider now that the IEBC is an independent commission and, indeed, is the only one of the 12 constitutional commissions in relation to which the word independent is part of its title. Stripped of poetry and high rhetoric, the basic idea of an independent institution is that it has sufficient space, quest and autonomy to do its job. This is certainly not the case with the Wafula Chebukati-led Commission as everybody from the courts to NASA are determined to micro-manage it and determine how it discharges its core mandate.Last year, Cord succeeded in its campaign to remove the Isaack Hassan-led IEBC and effect the comprehensive review of the Elections Act. It is, therefore, surprising that opposition leaders led by Raila Odinga have missed no opportunity to call into question the integrity and authority of the new electoral commission. Public confidence in the IEBC is vital to ensure credible polls but the constant harassment and undermining of its authority through political actions and judicial decisions have undeniably made it difficult for Kenyans to trust it. In my view, it is unlawful for anyone to undermine the authority of any public institution. Specifically, the Electoral Code of Conduct requires all and sundry to acknowledge the authority of the commission in the conduct of the election, reassure voters with regard to its impartiality and to accept the final outcome of the election, subject to the right to present a petition to an election court. There are two things worth noting in regards to the time and space for the IEBC to do its job. First, the Elections Act, 2011 as amended in September 2016 and March this year set out strict timelines for the electoral commission to undertake specified activities. Occasionally, the courts have varied these timelines and one of the consequences is that party primaries disputes are yet to be concluded. Second, Section 109 of the Elections Act provides that IEBC&rsquo;s power to make regulations &ldquo;shall be exercised only after a draft of the proposed regulations has been approved by the National Assembly, at least six months preceding a general election&rdquo;. The idea here is that at least six months to the general election, candidates and the voters should be aware what the law is and precisely how the IEBC will do its job. Unfortunately, courtesy of these unending court cases, the electoral laws remain in a state of flux, less than a month to the polls and the IEBC cannot be sure of it can do and what it can&rsquo;t in discharging its mandate, supposedly as an independent body. The conclusion is irresistible: The way things are going it will be a miracle, if not impossible, for IEBC to ensure that the August 8 General Election comply with the principles of free and fair elections set out in Articles 81 and 86 of the Constitution. In Ledama Ole Kina vs Samuel Tunai &amp; 9 Others the Court of Appeal held that an election that is not conducted in accordance with the principles laid out in Articles 81 and 86 &ldquo;is not free and fair, is invalid, without more&rdquo;. It bears noting that the main reason why the decision of the Supreme Court in Raila Odinga vs IEBC &amp; Others is oftenly criticised is because of its apparent failure to examine the impact of Articles 81 and 86 on resolution of election disputes.Truth be told. It is extremely hard to have a genuine trial in a presidential petition due to the ill-advised timelines on filing and determination. Further, courtesy of the court decisions in the Kiai case that effectively appointed 290 presidential returning officers presidential election petitions in Kenya cannot be heard and determined on merit. What this means is that realistic presidential petition must be fought around the principles of Articles 81 and 86, which are broad enough to invite nullification on account of any kind of misdemeanour and transgression of this or the other legal provision, regulation or judicial standard. In plain terms, a presidential petition founded on Articles 81 and 86 would empower the judges to nullify the results on practically any kind of transgressions that are inevitable in any election or human endeavour. Viewed this way, Kenyans should have reason to worry about the impact of the concluded and pending cases on the August 8 presidential election. No doubt several of the timelines have been violated, NASA has questioned its authority and judges have cast aspersions on the IEBC, which seems to have been impeded at every turn and then questioned about its preparedness to do its job. When all the decisions are finally made by the courts IEBC will have too little time to do a credible job, its capacity and reputation will be limited and its confidence shaken. Backed with court decisions questioning IEBC&rsquo;s compliance with principles set out in Articles 81 and 86, the irresistible conclusion is that in the end the decisions in the concluded and pending court cases will provide major grounds for nullification of presidential results by the Supreme Court. In other words, these cases are not just about how the general election will be conducted but they amount to a pre-emptive strike on legitimacy of the outcome particularly in the presidential election. The writer is a constitutional lawyer