At the floor of the scenic Kerio escarpment in Elgeyo Marakwet lies a closed-down mining factory that once employed at least 15,000 people. The smoke spiralled from this mining factory as it churned out 130,000 tonnes of fluorite annually since the 1970s, before suddenly suspending operations in April 30 last year. When the Kenya Fluorspar Company (KFC) in Soy area shut down, employees left the area and Kimwarer trading centre became deserted. Business was paralysed, leaving residents jobless in the dry valley on the floor of the rock-dotted Kerio escarpment. What now remains are mine dumps and dangerously exposed hillsides, a culmination of at least 40 years of fluorspar mining. Also notable at Kimwarere and neighbouring areas are abandoned trucks. Most of them broke down but their owners couldn’t repair them after losing the business of transporting raw materials from mining sites to the fluorspar factory. Kimwarer resident Priscilla Kitavi says KFC’s closure paralysed trade not only in the Kerio Valley but also in Eldoret town, 75km away. Motor vehicle spare part suppliers in Eldoret lost out after tens of lorry owners who offered transport for the mining company went out of business. “Motor vehicle spare parts dealers in Eldoret have often asked us when the company will reopen because most of their customers were operating from here,” Kitavi says. “As women, we stopped selling vegetables and milk because our customers left.” The businesswoman says local women took loans from micro-finance institutions to expand their business when Kimwarer was vibrant. “Life became difficult when the smoke stopped billowing from this fluorspar factory. We are appealing to the government to help us reopen the factory,” she said. A local elder Francis Chebet recalls how living standards of residents in the Kerio Valley plummeted after KFC’s closure. “Some people who depended on flourspar mining directly or indirectly resorted to farming. But the challenge is that it is almost impossible to do farming in this area, because it is dry with no constant water supply for irrigation,” he says.  WHY IT CLOSED KFC chief executive Nico Spangenberg says low demand for fluorspar mineral resulted in poor prices at the international market, and this drove the company into suspending its activities after profits shrunk. Spangenberg says the company’s operations in the Kerio Valley became unsustainable. “The collapse in the fluorspar market since 2012 has led to losses, thus the company’s operations have become unsustainable,” he says. He says the company undertook to pay all salaries and wages to its staff after it suspended operations. Spangenberg says the company boasts of numerous corporate social responsibilities, including establishing Fluorspar Primary School, a mixed day and boarding secondary school and a pre-school. The school and a library in Muskut area, the CEO says, were established to empower residents and to benefit students in the vicinity. Also established by the mining company is Field Marsham Hospital, named after the company chairman Charles Field Marsham. It offers health services to residents in the Kerio Valley.  RESTORATION PLAN The Mining ministry, in an effort to resume operations in the once flourishing fluorspar mining, is reviewing the mining operation licence as the one currently held by KFC expires in March next year. Mining CS Dan Kazungu has outlined the measures to pave way for mining, including compensating 1,400 families evicted four decades ago in 1977, when mining began in the 9,774 hectares. A task-force formed to enlist beneficiaries of the payouts has already presented names of the families, but the enlisting is ongoing. “What we have at the moment is Sh1 billion, but the number of beneficiaries may rise as the task-force is still carrying on with its work,” he says. The CS says the National Land Commission will begin land evaluation before residents are compensated. He urged the local community to support the NLC and the task-force when they began their work on June 28. Kazungu further called on politicians not to interfere with the work of the NLC evaluation team. In a recent visit to the KFC factory and Kimwarer trading centre, Kazungu said: “What is important is that evictees will be compensated adequately and fluorspar mining will start again. Whether to renew the licence for the current investor or not will be a subject of discussion.” President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed Kazungu to begin the compensation process of the evictees during a campaign tour in Chepkorio on June 10. This is after residents complained of the long wait for compensation, coupled with economic problems that resulted from the company’s closure.  KFC ‘NOT A FRIEND’ Despite its investments, KFC has rubbed residents the wrong way, and they don’t want the Mining ministry to renew its licence. Lobby group member Daniel Kandie says the mining company is “not a friend of the local community”. Kandie recalls instances when locals going about their traditional chores of herding livestock and harvesting honey in areas adjacent to the company’s factory were arrested and detained for trespass. “This is a company that never appreciated our culture and our cultural activities,” he says. He adds that at least five people are facing charges of trespass in different courts because of the company’s “insensitivity” to the community’s ways of life. “These locals never vandalised or stole any company property,” he says. “We want a company that will allow locals to buy shares and benefit from resources in their ancestral land. We also ask for a cemetery to reorganise funerals for departed elders according to our cultural norms, before the land is surrendered for commercial mining.” If this investor is out to benefit the community, Kandie says, then why do locals pay to get services at its private school and hospital? Fellow resident David Seurei says the community wants compensation for not only land but also the loss of vital resources, including traditional medicine and honey.  PRIVATISATION Company records indicate that the fluorspar mining company began producing fluorites in the early 1970s at its Kimwarer mine in Keiyo South. The mine has been in operation since then until April last year, when, according to the company, the business recorded losses due to an economic downturn. In 1996, businessman Field Marsham reportedly acquired the company as part of a government reform effort of corporate privatisation. Company records further show that in 2005, production was valued at $14 million (Sh1.4 billion), with most of its products being exported to international markets in Europe and India. The fluorspar company, the only mining company in Elgeyo Marakwet county, increased its total capacity to 130,000 tonnes of fluorite annually from 121,000 tonnes in 2011. Upon extraction and processing at the Kimwarer factory, Spangenberg says, the fluorspar is loaded into 10 ton trucks and hauled to the railway siding at Kaptagat, 37km way. From here it is loaded into 36ton rail wagons for the 860km journey to the Mbaraki wharf in Mombasa, en route to international markets. At the mining company, processing machines are intact, awaiting resumption of mining operations, after over a year of dormancy and with no hopes of resuming operations soon. Locals have now crossed their fingers as they wait for the government to fulfil its pledge to revive the mining and issue resettlement payouts to make the area economically vibrant once again.