Jubilee&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal will prioritise the war on drugs if elected second governor of Mombasa.In his manifesto, Shahbal proposes capital punishment for druglords and more than 60 peddlers in the illegal trade. There are 96,752 drug addicts in Mombasa, Shahbal says, and 6,725 have died of overdose since 2010. NGO Reachout Trust Centre says only 20,000 heroin addicts are in the county.However, Governor Hassan Joho has scaled down the figures, saying Mombasa is no longer a haven for drug barons and users. But Shahbal says the governor has not done much to wipe out or curtail supply, despite building a rehab centre at the Coast General Hospital. The governor also donated Sh1 million to rehabilitate drug addicts from Old Town and Majengo two years ago.Shahbal says, &ldquo;Each of us has lost a brother, a sister or a friend to drugs. We must fight back. Enough is enough.&rdquo; He says his administration will encourage youths to embrace community policing to identify drug peddlers. &ldquo;Our lawyers will ensure they are convicted,&rdquo; he states in his manifesto.But Shahbal&rsquo;s agenda for the Mombasa people is different from Nyali MP Hezron Awiti&rsquo;s. Awiti is also running for governor and launched his manifesto two months ago. He gives priority to wealth creation and equity through Revolutionary Councils for Democracy and Development. Awiti also promises to establish a Village College policy where people at the grassroots will decide the project they want initiated in their area.Joho and Omar are yet to launch their manifesto, 37 days to the August vote. For the first time in history, Mombasa might have a free economic zone designated areas, where companies will pay minimal taxes or none at all should Shahbal clinch the seat. Shahbal says he will work closely with the national government to build new roads and fix open sewers. Mombasa floods after a heavy downpour, which has resulted in loss of lives and left many houses submerged. He also promises to build schools for persons with disability in Mombasa&rsquo;s six constituencies.The garbage menace, which Joho&rsquo;s government has been struggling to deal with, will be a thing of the past within one month of Shahbal&rsquo;s administration.&ldquo;This is Mombasa&rsquo;s greatest shame. If you cannot even clean our [county] you have no business running the city,&rdquo; Shahbal says. He promises to provide residents with water in times of acute shortage.