Kenya is a young country, both as a sovereign state and in terms of its demography. The median age of the Kenyan voter in the upcoming election is 19. Countries all around the world are struggling with youth unemployment, and, indeed, underemployment. Our President has made this matter his most urgent priority in the past four years, and moving forward to the next five.He certainly unveiled a manifesto for the youth. There has rightly been great fanfare around the apprenticeship programme that will be piloted and rolled out by the next UhuRuto administration. We should all remember, however, that the locomotive for positive youth empowerment already left the station in 2013. The government supports providing low-interest loans to youth-owned enterprises, enabling them to grow their businesses. About Sh11.8 billion has been disbursed to 893,438 young people under the Youth Enterprise Development Fund. It has given us young people the opportunity to be pioneers, to engage in a plethora of fields we could only previously have dreamt about, both in the formal and informal sectors. In addition, the government awarded a staggering Sh42.8 billion to youth, women and the disabled, an unprecedented scale, through a programme that has caught the attention of the entire continent. The 30 per cent scheme Access to Government Procurement Opportunities has aided close to 40,000 businesses and 200,000 Kenyans.All the while, a mass of new and innovative entrepreneurship training programmes has helped at least 12,000 small businesses, providing young Kenyans with the skills to compete in local, regional, and in some cases, global markets.So when Jubilee&rsquo;s youth-focussed manifesto was unveiled on Monday, I for one was not surprised. The new government has promised to create a revamped Youth Development Council to coordinate youth-related activities and facilitate the training and mentoring we need to enter the workforce. The government will work with the private sector to ensure that the training is specific to the jobs that are required, a simple matching of supply and demand. Utilising new, burgeoning techniques, including big data analysis, the Jubilee government has committed to ensure that every young person seeking employment will have a fair chance.The Ajira Platform and online registration will revolutionise job seeking. Through the Youth Development Council, graduates will be efficiently matched with potential employers.The National Youth Service, already making waves, will receive additional budgets and responsibilities, working with international organisations and receiving full support from the national and county governments. This momentum will be used to underpin a host of commercial projects in Kenya and across the EAC.The guarantee that 30 per cent of all appointments, projects and budgets will be reserved for youth is one of the most fundamental commitments of this manifesto. Not to be taken lightly, it is a powerful sign that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his team believe in us, and are willing to put their faith in our drive, creativity and energy, where perhaps traditionally experience and age would have been favoured.Jubilee believes in the creativity of our youth.The party manifesto commits to enlarging 'Studio Mashinani' and 'Talent pia ni Kazi', where young people can come and make their music and promote their creative talents. Creativity is also the name of the game when it comes to Jubilee policy. By linking training and skills to specific jobs, the Ajira Platform will be used to make sure that where skilled workers are required, skilled workers are received, and where unskilled workers are required, they too are received. With a proven record of massive development projects, the building of roads and housing, irrigation, water infrastructure and electrification will bring more and more employment opportunities to young Kenyans, ultimately putting shillings in their pockets.As has been well noted in the media, the creative tax incentive programme will enable more and more Kenyan graduates to obtain internships and apprenticeships across the private sector, and in particular Kenya&rsquo;s world famous &lsquo;Silicon Savannah&rsquo;. Simultaneously, talented young people will continue to be handpicked to work in the Public Service through the new Young Professionals Management Programme.Finally, with the establishment of the Biashara Bank, more young entrepreneurs will be able to receive attractive, available and affordable financing programmes to develop their businesses &ndash; start-up Kenya is just around the corner.Building on the success of the past four years, this Jubilee manifesto should, therefore, not just be viewed as a plan for the youth. It is a plan for the future of a prosperous Kenya.