It may still be pitch black outside but 4.05am is the moment when millions of Britain's worriers wake up concerned about their health, according to a new report yesterday.For the latest research shows that Brits are becoming a nation of night time worriers with more than three fifths of the population - that's over 32million adults - waking up in the middle of the night thinking about a health concern that has not been checked off of their to-do list.Overdue dental check-ups, losing weight and tackling stress are top health tasks keeping Britain awake, according to new data from Bupa Health Clinics.The research identified 4.05am as the most common time for a 'health wakeup call', and it's overdue dental check-ups (25%), losing weight (23%) and talking to someone about stress or a mental health issue (20%) that are disturbing the country's sleep the most.Booking a GP appointment for a niggling symptom and getting a general health check-up complete the top five concerns, according to the research by Bupa Health Clinics, which surveyed over 4,000 people across the UK.Worryingly, a fifth of Britons admit that general health tasks are the least likely area of 'life' to be checked off the to-do list, being frequently delayed instead. People are more likely to complete tasks related to work, their finances or relationships instead; meaning that paying in a cheque, asking for a pay-rise and even arranging a date will be prioritised over booking a GP appointment or scheduling in a health check.However, it's not hearing the potential outcome of medical appointments that's putting people off, as almost half of respondents agree that there is just always something 'more important' to deal with in their busy lives.Dr Luke James, Medical Director at Bupa Health Clinics said: 'This research highlights that despite de-prioritising them, lingering health tasks can quickly go from being a simple reminder to book an appointment, to enough to keep you up at night - 59% percent of respondents struggle to nod off when they go to bed and are instead worrying about not giving their health the attention it needs.'The issue is that persistent worrying can lead to further problems - blood pressure can go up and people can start suffering from things like heart palpitations. These are potentially more serious conditions, which can be much more difficult to bounce back from. It's time for the nation to act, tick those actions off the list, and worry less.'However, health-related 'to-dos' popping into our minds is not confined to the early hours - other common worry-moments are during the nation's down time (19%), in the shower (7%) and on the daily commute (6%).The research also revealed that people in Belfast are the most likely to be woken up by a nagging health related task, followed by people from Cardiff, then Bristolians, those from Edinburgh and lastly the residents of Glasgow.From a more national perspective, health-related tasks pop into our heads an average of five times a week with the top ten concerns being:1. A dental check up;2. Losing weight;3. Talking to someone about stress or a mental health concern;4. Booking a GP appointment about a niggling symptom;5. A general health assessment;6. Treating aches and pains;7. Getting a flu jab;8. Getting a mole checked;9. Giving up smoking;10. Treating a skin related issue like psoriasis or eczema.