Sikh Union must stay focused in tomorrow’s Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super League against Swamibapa if they are to retain their top spot. Skipper Gurdeep Singh, who has been impressive with the bat, said they will need to keep on working hard to remain competitive despite having three matches in hand. “It feels good to be at the top but I think there are plenty of things to work on and hopefully, we can put them right starting with Swamibapa’s match on Sunday,” Gurdeep said. With all top three contenders—Swamibapa, Stray Lions and Kanbis—also having a good run, Sikh Union are hanging on the lead by virtue of having earned more batting points in their last three matches. “Our batting has helped us to win all the matches. We are hopeful that we will put on the same show against Swamibapa who are an equally strong team,” added Gurdeep. He said is good to see the top four teams only separated by three points and the fifth to seventh team separated by only a point in the middle of the table. “It is good for the league cricket that the games are becoming more competitive. You’ve seen how every team has progressed in the last couple of matches,” he said. Defending champions Stray Lions and former champions Kanbis will also be hoping to extend their winning run when they host Ruaraka and Nairobi Gymkhana respectively. The two sides are enjoying good run and if the performance of their opponents in their last three matches is anything go by, then they have a better chance of maintain their 100 percent record. In only three innings, Kanbis have scored over 1000 runs with six centuries having been scored in two innings. With this kind of form, Gymkhana’s bowlers will be hoping to take all chances that come their way. “We will have to work harder. We can’t afford to slip up. We don’t want to start cursing and regretting after the last bowl. We will need to be at our best in the whole match,” Nairobi Gymkhana opening bowler Lucas Oluoch said.Ruaraka are still win-less and will need to up their game if they are to stop Stray Lions. League debutants Obuya Academy, who shocked Cutchi Leva last Sunday to register their maiden NPCA Super League win, hope to make it two wins out of two as they take on Kongonis at Nairobi Club. Sir Ali will be back at home to welcome Cutchi Leva who are also searching for their first win.