If there is one thing that Kenya is not short of, it is drug and alcohol addicts. We see them everywhere, and, more often than not, the drunkard is a man. But occasionally you see a woman intoxicated and passed out, and like me, your first thought probably is &lsquo;How can a woman let herself go?&rsquo;Being judged is something that addicts experience regularly. Never mind society preaches that &lsquo;thou shalt not judge&rsquo;. Compared to a few years ago, the stigma of addiction seems to be slowly fading away, but is far from gone &ndash; especially against women.Not that it is worse for a woman to be trapped in addiction, rather, it just isn&rsquo;t treated as important a societal issue to deal with as addiction in a man.For the &lsquo;softer&rsquo; of the species, it seems society views the loss of productivity and social interaction from one fallen into addiction as less of a tragedy than if we were male.Matters are further complicated by the nature of the addiction treatment and rehabilitation system in Kenya. This is largely a private sector and NGO affair dating back to 1978. Treatment and rehabilitation centres are few, operate in a policy vacuum and are expensive for most Kenyans.Although rehab programmes are not new and centres focus on both men and women, the specific needs of women have not received due priority.This may be because alcoholism and drug abuse are less prevalent among women, but it is more likely that cultural norms in many communities may have resulted in less inclination to intervene when women are affected, especially because rehabilitation can be costly.Out of the 78 rehabilitation centres registered with Nacada, none cater specifically for women.It is high time Nacada and the government took active measures to address the desperate need for women-specific addiction management centres. Most rehab centres primarily accommodate men, with women as an afterthought and a side arrangement.This means that women-specific issues are rarely addressed and treatment modalities are largely targetted at the men. Further, resident counsellors in these centres are mostly men, which makes it uncomfortable for the women in the programme to be completely open.Interaction with male clients must be done with caution because of the strenuous dynamics in the rehab centres.There are many circumstances that are more common amongst women, which require a specialised treatment approach. For example, research has shown that physical and sexual trauma followed by Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are more common in drug-abusing women than in men who seek treatment.There are more conditions affecting women living with addiction to drugs and alcohol, such as eating disorders, mood disorders, social and emotional dysfunction. Left untreated, these eventually exacerbate physical, emotional, spiritual, social and mental dysfunctions.Developing national standards, training professionals on treatment and counselling and developing a credentialing system for professionals are of utmost importance. But more still needs to be done. The government needs to prioritise treatment for women addicts with as much zeal as it has for men. Only then will society begin to appreciate that it is not less tragic, less unfortunate or less important when a woman gets caught up in the unfortunate cycle that is addiction.It is not enough for the government to lump all those suffering in addiction into one pool and claim to be addressing their issues. These issues differ broadly across the gender divide. Fair enough, rehabilitation centres for women do exist. For example, Teen Challenge Women&rsquo;s Centre in Kiambu provides a 12-month faith-based residential rehabilitation programme for women over the age of 18 who are struggling with addiction to alcohol and drugs or any other life controlling issues. Although this centre advocates an abstinence and faith-based approach as opposed to the traditional disease-model of treatment, it appears, so far, to be the closest attempt by our society in addressing women-specific addiction concerns. This is a laudable step in closing this wide gap that the government has allowed to persist.