Jubilee is trying to project a kinder, gentler image. Less red meat, more maternal caring. After all, the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world and it's hoped that First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Rachel Ruto &mdash; known for good works and prayer &mdash; can work their own motherly magic on the campaign trail. Perhaps a softer touch can influence those undecided voters and sway some opposition supporters in a close race.By the way, they are married to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, who running for reelection. They aredoing the heavy lifting, giving out goodies and bashing the opposition.The August 8 election is 16 days off and Uhuru Ruto are hoping their non-politician wives can appeal to women, youth and other voters.In May 2015, Margaret was rated the most trusted person in Kenya by a major polling company. She polled 55 per cent (up from 50 per cent in the last survey). Her husband rated 48 per cent. She is widely respected for her Beyond Zero, maternal and child health campaigns.But the Ida Odinga, wife of NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, has been missing in action in this campaign, operating from the background, it is said. She was active in previous elections and often accused of meddling.Margaret and Rachel have intensified campaigning across Kenya, capitalising on women's empowerment events and peace prayers for the election to campaign. Their message: Reelect Jubilee to finish the good work it started in 2013.The First Lady has avoided politics since 2013, focussing instead on her Beyond Zero campaign. It provided 47 mobile clinics to counties to improve health services for all citizens.However, she cancelled the March 12 Beyond Zero Half Marathon, citing politicisation of her health initiative. She had been criticised for ignoring the ravaging drought, maize and unga shortage and the skyrocketing cost of living.Kenyans also pressured her to cancel the Gratitude Marathon and use her good offices to resolve the doctors' strike that had lasted 100 days.Thereafter, Margaret started campaigning for her husband."I have never been willing to politicise this agenda. As a consequence I feel it necessary to cancel the First Lady&rsquo;s Half Marathon this year. We have run together bonded by our shared conviction that no mother should die while giving life and that every child should live to see their fifth birthday," she said.The First Lady has campaigned in four regions since late June.Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation national chairperson Rahab Mwikali and Ahadi Kenya Trust CEO Stanley Kamau are helping her by mobilising their members. Spouses of senior government officials, such as the late Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery's wife Hellen, Jubilee women candidates, clerics and county commissioners are backing Margaret and Rachel's tours.Rachael, a peace prayer crusader, on Monday this week met all Jubilee candidates for Nairobi, led by Senator Mike Sonko (Governor) and Johnson Sakaja (Senate). "She has been in the forefront of praying for national peace. Since there are plans for a final huge peace prayer event on July 30 at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, we requested to meet her because it is important we always come together," Sakaja told the Star.On Thursday Margaret, women leaders and residents campaigned. They included Mwikali, Samburu county MYWO chairperson Ann Lenturakan and her Marsabit counterpart Fatuma Godana, Samburu woman representative Maison Leshomo and nominated Senator Naisula Lesuuda.Margaret campaigned in Maralal, Samburu, a day after NASA flagbearer and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka held a rally in the same area.NASA leaders accuse the Jubilee administration of marginalising pastoral communities for years. They say recent anti-banditry and other security operations lead to loss of innocent lives and livestock, instead of protecting people."We are asking ourselves if the leadership of this government is humane anymore. The government through security forces carrying out operations are shooting goats, sheep in the hundreds are dead and cows are run over by armored vehicles," Raila said.The First Lady and her team, however, dismissed NASA for exploiting "temporary" insecurity problems in pastoral counties to "hoodwink voters.""Votes are with women and our decision is one. We cannot abandon our own son (Uhuru Kenyatta)," Leshomo said.Mwikali warned her members against voting for NASA, saying that would deny Margaret and Jubilee an opportunity to continue implementing their development projects."Women will make August 8 a defining moment for this country. We shall not vote for five NASA people motivated by selfish interests. We do not change our mothers, no matter what. We must vote for the President to ensure our mother (First Lady) remains in office," she said.Margaret told the women to reelect Jubilee, saying it has an excellent track record."Elect the Jubilee government and you will be electing results. Let Uhuru Kenyatta finish the work he started and I will work with him," the First Lady said.At that meeting, Samburu commissioner Wilfred Kinyua listed Jubilee's completed and pending projects. On Monday, Uhuru and Ruto will campaign in the county. On Tuesday this week, Margaret and Mwikali campaigned in Isiolo town, meeting hundreds of women from Isiolo and Meru counties.The First Lady said the election "is about going forward not backward" and Jubilee is the only outfit to propel Kenya."In a few days we shall have an election. In this election, Jubilee has committed to finish the work it started four years ago. When he (Uhuru) took up the job, he knew what was required of him from the people who elected him and he continues to work for them," Margaret said.She cited rural electrification, cash transfer for the elderly, Inua Jamii Safety Net programmes and free medical services through NHIF major Jubilee initiatives."Despite the progress we have made, there is a lot of work to be done to ensure persistent inequalities will be a thing of the past," the First Lady said.Ahadi Kenya CEO led Margaret in visiting a children's home and in donating food, cooking oil, shoes and blankets to the elderly at Isiolo Agricultural Training Centre.On Jun 29, the First Lady campaigned in Wiper leader and NASA deputy presidential candidate Kalonzo Musyoka's lower Eastern turf. Early this month she was in Kajiado.She met more than 5,000 women from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui counties on her lower Eastern tour."Today I make another commitment to continue the journey I started in 2013 because the work is not over. Together, as long as we remain committed, we can achieve our health targets, including zero deaths for mothers and children," Margaret said.The First Lady said the government will fulfill its promise of more funding to the Linda Mama programme to access free antenatal, post-natal and immunisation services.Women asked Margaret to ask Uhuru to elevate Mutitu Subdistrict Hospital in Kitui county to level 5 status, rehabilitate schools and build roads.Mwikali and Hellen Nkaissery accompanied Margaret in swing-vote Kajiado county where they addressed hundreds of Maendeleo ya Wanawake members.Hellen said women have immensely benefited from Jubilee."What other government are we looking for? Kajiado women have decided it is Jubilee. We are not going anywhere in supporting other coalitions." she said. Empowering women and youth is Jubilee's priority, Margaret said. "This government has continued to ensure women's participation in decision-making and remains committed to ensuring 30 per cent women's involvement in leadership positions," she said.Margret said she will work tirelessly to uplift women and champion education for neglected girls in the region and countrywide.