For more than nine years, Nancy Wanjiru has been seeking justice in all institutions one can think of. The mother of three wept as she narrated how police brutality has devastated her life and how she has been frustrated as she fights to get justice. January 3, 2008, is a date etched in her mind. It was the fifth day since the disputed presidential results were announced and violence erupted. Nancy, her husband George Gachie and three children lived in Bondeni village of Mathare slums where ethnic violence spread like a bush fire. Early that morning, her family was attacked by people they knew too well.&ldquo;We were having breakfast when a group of youth stormed in,&rdquo; she remembers. Since they were people she knew, Nancy thought they would sit and negotiate, but that was not to be.&ldquo;Most of them were friends with my children but would not hear our cry as they attacked my husband with pangas,&rdquo; she says.Nancy says the group was accompanied by a police officer she also knew. &ldquo;Before the violence, I was a chang&rsquo;aa brewer and the officer who accompanied our attackers used to come to my home for bribes,&rdquo; she says.After the attack, believing her husband was dead, the attackers dumped in the sewage-filled Nairobi River.&ldquo;As they left, they warned us to vacate the area by end of the day or they would come for us,&rdquo; Nancy says.With the little energy she had left, Nancy walked to where her husband was dumped and found him alive. &ldquo;As I tried to drag him out, Red Cross officials arrived and helped me. He was rushed to KNH.&rdquo;The following morning, amid fears of another attack, Nancy and her children moved to what was to become an IDP camp near Moi Airbase in Eastleigh.She then set out to visit her husband in hospital. As she walked in Pangani, a car pulled alongside and to her shock, the same police officer who watched her husband being attacked stepped out and asked where she was going.&ldquo;I told him I was going to see my husband and while playing sympathetic, he offered me a ride.&rdquo; Nancy says she was reluctant but the officer promised not to harm her. Instead of driving towards the hospital, the officer turned and drove to a compound where he told her to get out of the car. &ldquo;I was at a loss and asked him where he took me. He said he wanted to take me to his wife who was to give me shoes since I was barefoot.&rdquo; They walked to the house but the wife was not in. &ldquo;He made tea and served me before giving me slippers,&rdquo; she remembers. At first, Nancy thought she had found a good Samaritan in the officer. While walking inside the locked room, the officer spoke words she had heard the previous day from the men who attacked her husband.&ldquo;You Kikuyus are very bad people,&rdquo; and with that, he reached out and started forcing himself on her. &ldquo;I fought back but he held my throat and used his gun to pin me down.&rdquo; The officer raped Nancy. To date, she bears a scar on her right leg where she was struck by the gun. &ldquo;It was a horrible experience.&rdquo; She reported the attack and rape to Pangani police station under OB48/10/1/8.Nancy slipped into depression and lived in a world of her own. For a whole week, she never spoke to anyone, including her children. &ldquo;I was totally stressed and contemplated suicide,&rdquo; she says. On the eighth day, her son Kevo approached her and demanded to know what was wrong. &ldquo;I thought it wise to share with him my ordeal.&rdquo; Her son too was bitter and he promised to confront the officer. However, on the day Kevo approached the officer, he was handcuffed and locked up. He was found dead the following morning. &ldquo;Kevo was shot in the face nine times,&rdquo; Nancy says, breaking down. She is certain the police officer who stood by while her husband was attacked and who raped her was the same man who killed her son. Furious, Nancy went to Pangani police station where she met her rapist and demanded to know why he was on her family&rsquo;s case. While she grabbed his collar in front of the OCS, the officer told her confidently that he was going to make her life worse and very difficult. Since then, Nancy who had to move to Dandora, has made countless visits to the station as she tries to get justice.The officer, according to Nancy, is still in service and at one point offered her Sh200,000 and told her to stop pursuing the case. &ldquo;I refused but the officer went ahead to tell me that I will never succeed,&rdquo; she says. Extrajudicial killings by the police have become rampant as the country marks a year since the murders of rights lawyer Willie Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri.They were abducted, tortured, killed and their bodies dumped in the Ol-Donyo Sabuk River.Kimani worked for the International Justice Mission. Its vice president for Africa Claire Wilkinson says there must be change in the way the Kenya police operates. &ldquo;I have seen many murder victims &mdash; every one of them a life taken too soon by cruel cowards,&rdquo; she says.According to Mathare Social Justice Centre, about 200 people have been killed in the slum by police within one year. &ldquo;No young man is safe in Eastlands. People out there celebrate when the police say they have killed a certain number of suspected criminals. But what they don&rsquo;t know is that most of those killed are usually innocent young men,&rdquo; Evelyn Ikunsa said.Her 17-year-old son was fatally shot at Kiamaiko. Evelyne said police should give them a dress code because when young slum boys dress well they are suspected to be thugs. &ldquo;It has become a crime to walk in nice shoes in the slums,&rdquo; she says.As she continues to search for justice for herself and her son, Nancy has become the breadwinner. The wounds suffered by her husband made him mentally instable. She is hopeful, however, that his attackers will one day be dealt with by the law. &ldquo;I know that day will come, despite the long wait.&rdquo;