After the promulgation of the Constitution on August 27, 2010, the advent of public interest litigation began in earnest. Public interest litigation is defined as the use of litigation, or legal action, to advance the cause of minority or disadvantaged groups or individuals, or raise issues of broad public concern. It is a way of using the law strategically to effect socioeconomic change in a society such as ours. Public interest litigation is a science in the sense that you must first identify a public issue, and strategically and artfully carry out research about it before you start building a case. There is a lot of thought process that goes into it. The research design must be informed by socio-legal studies of public interest law campaigns and scrutinise both oral and documentary evidence to produce innovative and tactical pleadings that will withstand any challenge from the respondents. In this way the research looks beyond what is said and done within the legal proceedings, and considers how external events shape perceptions of the success or failure of the litigation. In Kenya many public interest litigation cases do not go far because little due diligence and industry go into coming up with public interest cases. However the effectiveness of the public interest litigation is never measured by the success rate or the failure of public interest cases. There are a number of cases that get dismissed but in the ultimate bring tremendous changes in the society. India, for example, has witnessed unprecedented judicial populism that ostensibly sought social and economic justice for the poor. The Indian Supreme Court's procedural and jurisprudential innovations revolved around the violation of constitutional rights, leading to a formidable rights discourse in favour of direct judicial access to ordinary citizens. These innovations included the relaxation of the standing rule and other procedural; expansion of the substantive meaning of right to life to encompass broader matters of social and economic empowerment and human dignity. Other issues included freedom from indigency, ignorance and discrimination, as well as the right to a healthy environment, to social security and protection from massive financial, commercial and corporate oppression. The Supreme Court of India, unlike our courts, would even act on newspaper reports or letters to declare rights of the citizens. It revolutionised public interest litigation and spoke to power directly on behalf of the people of India. The political impact of public interest litigation is huge when properly undertaken and executed skillfully. The growth of public interest litigation has sent chills down the spines of the Executive and the Legislature. The Executive, Legislature and constitutional commissions can no longer come up with policies or directives that are anti-people and contrary to the Constitution. The failure by government functionaries to deal with a resurgent Judiciary under the current Constitution has led to the palpable anger towards the judges whom they cannot hire or fire. The only action they can take is holler fire and brimstone in public podiums and rallies, knowing very well that such rantings do not amount to much since the train left the station seven years ago. The Judiciary must, however, guard against the abuse of public interest litigation to enforce private rights. Many litigants who have cases that have nothing to do with public rights flood the courts with cases that are better adjudicated as normal cases in the respective courts. The courts must also guard against the rise of professional litigants who have become guns for hire for individuals who have scores to settle with big corporate entities. The purity of public interest cases must not be tainted or defiled by charlatans whose interests are basically commercial and have nothing to do with enforcement of public rights. Our courts must continue patrolling the borders of the Constitution with a view to creating a new regime of human rights, democratisation of access to justice, fashioning new kinds of reliefs, judicial monitoring of state institutions and devising new techniques of fact-finding. By doing this they will not just be anchoring and developing a new jurisprudence of the accountability of the state for constitutional and legal violations adversely affecting the interests of the weaker elements in the community, but also promoting a just society. Those who are filing these cases must not be discouraged from doing so by award of costs that conservative courts usually employ to put roadblocks on the path of public-spirited litigants. Mwamu is the former President of East Africa Law Society and an advocate of the High Court of Kenya