The UK suffered three terror attacks in less than two months. This is a chilling reminder of how unsafe the world is today. Over the last few years, hundreds of people have died in Europe due to terror attacks. Kenya is no stranger to this modern-day religion-driven plague. To reduce our national vulnerability to terrorism, the government has invested tremendously in the last four years. Giving priority to investment in national security sector could well be one of this administration’s most enduring legacies. And the dividends have not been slow in coming; terrorist attacks in Kenya are now significantly reduced both in scope and frequency. By any means, the soft targets are soft no more. Like Jubilee or not, no administration in our history has done more to bolster our internal security than this government. In logistics, billions of shillings have been spent on equipment to arm, protect and transport our security personnel over the last four years. In terms of police welfare, this government has fulfilled the dreams of many. Truth be told, those of us who served our countrymen in this dangerous career viewed a comprehensive medical scheme as the preserve of private sector corporates. Today, police officers and their families enjoy one of the best medical schemes in the country.  HEIGHTENED SURVEILLANCE Less than five years ago, it was impossible to visualise a Nairobi where every street and highway is on 24-hour closed circuit television network surveillance, complete with a modern command and control centre. Movement has everything to do with police operations, whether an officer is responding to an emergency or simply carrying out preventive prowler patrols. The boosting of the police fleet with over 5,000 new vehicles and enhancing this with street lighting in all major towns in the country is yet another leap forward. As the trickle-down effect gains momentum, the principal beneficiary will be the ordinary citizen, who deserves to have stolen property recovered and restored to the lawful owner; big and small criminals expeditiously arrested and prosecuted; and ultimately get an environment where they can enjoy their fundamental freedoms and human rights without fear of crime and criminals. This is the template against which police officers must see the justification of current and future investments in their welfare. Previously, police reforms were limited to meetings in big hotels, public declarations during campaigns and a cacophony of incoherent pronouncements from the NGO world. Most of us were actually giving up on witnessing any tangible moves in this lifetime: there was simply no political will to invest in this critical sector. Today, there is ample evidence of a government-driven holistic approach to reforming Kenya’s homeland security. A few more years in this direction and we shall reclaim our global standing of the 1970s and early 80s, when Kenya’s internal security machinery was rated as the best in Africa and actually one of the best in the commonwealth. While the government focuses more on investing in police remuneration, living and working conditions, police officers must self-evaluate to ensure that the quality, quantity and speed of services can visibly justify the increased investment. Arguably, we are not there yet in terms of remuneration, structural and administrative reforms, but as they say, “Rome was not built in a day”. At last the dividends of positive change have started trickling down into this hitherto forgotten pillar of our social and economic development.  Eric Kiraithe is the government spokesperson