Police officers on trial over the murders of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani and two others were dealt a blow yesterday after the High Court declined to delay the case. The high-profile murder trial resumed yesterday after a two-month break, but still lawyers representing the officers wanted more time to allow them to appeal against a decision that rejected their bid to bar lawyers representing the victims from cross–examining witnesses. Trial judge Jessie Lessit said the request by the defence team was premature. The judge also declined to expunge crucial evidence that was introduced by lawyers representing victims in the case. “I am unable to even consider the application as there is nothing before me,” Lessit said The trial against AP officers Stephen Chebulet, Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet and Silvia Wanjiku, and informer Peter Ngugi is now expected to run on a day-to-day basis for the next two weeks. Johana Ngoria, a police officer working at Oldonyo Sabuk police station, who retrieved the bodies of Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri from a river, said they were tied at their waists with gunny bags while their heads had been tied with plastic bags. The witness said the plastic bags had Mlolongo’s Mulela Supermarket name. “The bodies had started decomposing and blood oozed from their mouths and noses”. Kimani, Mwenda and Muiruri disappeared on June 23. It is suspected they were kidnapped on their way back from the Mavoko law courts, briefly held in a container before they were dragged to a killing field. Kimani’s client, Mwenda, was pursuing an attempted murder case against Leliman and had refused to withdraw it. The officers have been pushing to bar the victims’ lawyers from asking questions in the case.  Another cop linked to murder Their application was raised after shocking revelations, linking yet another police officer to the killer suspects, was introduced during cross-examination. Lawyers watching brief for the families, the Law Society of Kenya and International Justice Mission, relied on Facebook chats and phone data records to prove Wilson Kamau, an officer attached to an undercover unit that was headed by Leliman, called the police informant several times from June 23 — the date the three men went missing. Justice Lessit ruled that cross-examination by the advocates for the victims does not hinder the prosecution’s ability to conduct a focused prosecution of the matter. The judge said the victims’ lawyers shall continue to participate in the proceedings as the officers did not show what prejudice they would suffer as a result of that participation, or how their rights have been affected. “I find that the cross-examination by counsel for the victims was the best avenue that a victim could use to bring out the evidence that had been left out by the prosecution in the examination in chief,” he said. The hearing resumes today.