Gospel star Bahati has a baby mama, Kisha Yvette Obura. The two were the talk of town after Bahati revealed he has a biological daughter, something that shocked many. This thrust Yvette into the limelight. "At first things were hard to deal with, especially at work and with family. You can imagine your boss seeing you in the papers with too much negativity thrown at you, but I thank God because everyone was so understanding. At the moment, I choose to live my life and just let everything slide. I mean just because I am Bahati's baby mama doesn't make me different from any other mother," she told Word Is. Yvette is currently engaged but has a co-parenting arrangement with Bahati. "Funny enough, my baby calls my fiancé uncle. She doesn't call anyone else 'Baba'. She loves him too much that I get scared at times... She's always like 'Mama wapi baba? Mimi taka baba!'" She said they have "always been co-parenting without any issues" and that her fiance is "an easy and understanding man. That's the goodness but he is human. You know, sometimes he's like, 'Babe this is too much to handle' and I feel him, so maybe it's high time for all this to stop." So is she and Diana Marua in talking terms? "Mmmh, not really, but we don't have any kind of beef, I believe," Yvette said. She defended Diana's move to post a photo of herself and Mueni on social media, saying, "I believe she had the best intentions at heart. At the end of the day she's like Mueni's other mum and so I'm easy." Asked if she was invited to Bahati and Diana's wedding in August, Yvette said, "I really don't follow up on his private life, so if he's doing a wedding, I'm happy for them. Marriage is a blessing, you know." As a parting shot, Yvette pleaded, "The only thing I really want right now is for bloggers to stop following me around and quoting me from my social media posts every now and then. It's just not right... Especially quoting stuff that makes people think I'm beefing or hating. I mean, I am just like any other momma whose got to live her life away from critics, bullying and everything, and in as much as the media is trying to portray a bad image, on the other side, we are co-parenting well and with lots of respect. So the media just has to stop. I mean, there's nothing else left to do, right? And oh, they should stop with all this 'Bahati's baby momma' name. I guess by now they know my name."