More than any other edifice in the electoral process, the IEBC holds the vein that will emit a violent outcome or free, fair and credible polls. The war gongs are being sounded, egged on by a strange interlocutor &ndash; the European Union Election Observation Mission &ndash; predicting a violent post-election Kenya.I wasn&rsquo;t dumbfounded when the EU conclusion was it has given up on Election 2017 but that it will discuss &ldquo;the polls legal framework, electoral administration, voter registration, nominations, campaigning, the media, voting and counting, tally of results and dispute resolution mechanisms&rdquo;, which is &ldquo;the reality across the country and make recommendations on how to improve future elections&rdquo;. Yes, future elections not the 2017 polls!I&rsquo;ve no idea where the EU got the evidence for its excited premature summation. Premature because the &lsquo;warning&rsquo; only helps to fuel the embers of a dormant fireplace; it&rsquo;s creating unnecessary apprehension that could dampen enthusiasm for coming out to vote and, therefore, heighten belief in an already stolen election.That&rsquo;s exactly what the devil prescribes to ignite violence. It&rsquo;s curious the EU mission passes judgement after hardly a month in the country. It&rsquo;s doubtful its observations are based on scientific evidence but hearsay and gut-feeling assumptions. NASA cautioned the EU against being presumptuous; that it would be chasing the wrong monkey in the forest by asking both NASA and Jubilee to swear against &ldquo;encouraging&rdquo; post-election violence.The EU was advised to focus on the IEBC as the referee and encourage it to play fair, and not to ask for restraint from those criticising the commission. It was impressed on the EU that pre-election critics of the IEBC are foreboding messengers attempting to pre-empt its proclivity to haul the country to the precipice of post-election violence. The couriers of warnings about IEBC pranks mean well for the country and shouldn&rsquo;t be told to clam up, the EU was told.Now that the EU has revised its script and predicted violence in every nook and cranny in Kenya, it needs remembering that the IEBC is siring a very expensive joke in ensuring that its voter register, or registers, is/are elastic, its data unreliable, its information cheekily wanting and relations with political stakeholders clownish. The IEBC is coyly playing to the gallery while fanning the fire next time.The billions of shillings spent on the KPMG audit of the register does not faze the IEBC an iota when the supposedly clean register emits strange ghost voters in their hordes.You wouldn&rsquo;t believe this is happening until you send dead relatives&rsquo; former ID numbers to the IEBC&rsquo;s 70000 toll number, then they all emerge from the graves ready to walk or run to vote at any of the designated 41,000 &ndash; or is it 40,800 - polling stations.The elasticity of the number of polling stations is equalled only by the oscillation and obscuration of whether we have a register or registers. No wonder data from the IEBC keeps shifting. The commission initially put the number of dead voters struck off the list at 92,277 only for it to magically amend the figure to 88,602. This means 3,675 rose from the dead courtesy of the healing powers of the IEBC.Meanwhile, political parties are still waiting for a clean register as ordered by law; demonstration that the integrated electronic voter identification and results transmission system will work and transparent recruitment of poll officials. KPMG recommended the IEBC harmonise its register with data from the registrar of births and deaths. Nothing yet.The IEBC website gives Embu county what appears to be the correct total of voters in Mbeere North and South, Runyenjes and Manyatta constituencies. However, the total of 309,468 has been inflated by 17,523. This adds up to be 823,581 votes across the 47 counties. The IEBC isn&rsquo;t fumbling with addition but precipitating a crisis with illegally procured voters.The IEBC is legally required to publish a list of polling stations alongside registered voters in each station. Time is running out and the IEBC is scared its ever-multiplying, list of ghost voters embedded in an opaque register it wont share will be exposed.That&rsquo;s what the EU and the rest of us should guard and guide against to avoid post-election violence.