National boys&rsquo; volleyball champions Cheptil and Sengera SDA booked their semi-final slots as the Airtel Rising Stars National Secondary Schools Term &lsquo;2B&rsquo; games entered Day Two at the Moi Nyeri Complex Primary School yesterday.Cheptil, who had won against Tetu 3-0 in their first pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; match on Tuesday beat Waberi from North Eastern 3-0 ( 25-8, 25-12, 25-13) to move their points tally to six points and now take on Sengera today in their final group match. The defeat ended Waberi chance to proceed in the championship. On other hand, Sengera overwhelmed Tetu 3-1(25-19,21-15,25-12 ,25-21) to join Cheptil into the final last four.Cheptil coach Frederick Were was impressed with his charges performance. He said: &ldquo;With this results so far, we are on the right track to defend the national title. However, the real battle awaits us going forward but all in all we want to wrap up the group stages on high as that will give the players confidence ahead of the semi-final.&rdquo;In the girls category, Kwanthanze also stormed the semi-final, thanks to a 3-0 (25-4, 25-3, 25-2) win over Makoror from North Eastern. Kwanthanze had won against Lugulu 3-0 in their Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; clash in on Tuesday. At the same time, Lugulu regrouped after Tuesday defeat against Kwanthanze to trounce Sega 3-0 (25-23, 25-12, 25-22). However, they have to win against Makoror today and pray that Sega lose to Kwanthanze for them to proceed to the final four.In football, Upper Hill came from a goal down to hold St. Anthony, Kitale to a 1-1 draw to leave both teams tied on four points and the group open.St. Anthony take on Ramisi as Kanga who were bundled out the event having lost tow of their matches take on Upper Hill.Philip Mayaka scored for St. Anthony while Washington Odoyo levelled for the Upper Hill. In girls football, Kobala won against Olympic Mixed 1-0 to advance to the semi-finals. Annet Matinde scored the lone goal.Having won their pool match against Utithi 2-1 on Tuesday, they top the group with six points and come up against Njabini today in their last group match.The defeat left Olympic at cross road with one point, having played to a 2-2 draw against Njabini and would have to be at their best today when they play Utithi and win with a bigger margin and pray that Njabini lose to Kobala.