It seems the old 'apple a day' adage still rings true, according to new research.And in addition to known health benefits, a new report by the CSIRO found that eating apples regularly can actually help with preventing weight gain. In fact, leading health and lifestyle expert, Dr Joanna McMillan, said eating whole apples can help 'control your appetite and assist with weight loss' by helping you fill fuller for longer. "Studies have shown that both adults and children who eat apples regularly are more likely to have a lower BMI," Dr McMillan said, adding that apple eaters "weigh less". Initially researchers believed it was the low energy density of apples that helped manage weight. "More recent animal research suggests the dietary fibre (pectin) and polyphenols in apples may also play a role in appetite and weight control."The research, commissioned by Horticulture Innovation Australia, also found that regularly eating apples can lead to healthier gut bacteria."It is believed eating apples results in positive changes to gut bacteria (or microbiota)," Dr McMillan said. "While the exact health effects of this are not yet known, the gut microbiome (the genes of the microbiota) are now understood to play an important role in maintaining good health and preventing disease."Eating apples can also reduce your risk of cancer and keep your heart healthy."Regularly eating apples is associated with a reduced risk of some of the most common forms of cancer. This has been shown for breast cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, and non-Hodgkin&rsquo;s lymphoma," Dr McMillan said. She added: "There is a strengthening body of scientific evidence that a regular apple habit is good for your heart.Apples and their nutritional components help lower total and LDL cholesterol. While observational studies link eating more apples with a reduced risk of stroke, hypertension and a range of heart disease risk factors."Emerging research from the University of Western Australia also suggests that eating apples may improve blood pressure and elasticity of blood vessels."Based on the research, Dr McMillan urges Australians to eat apples regularly - and to eat the entire fruit."We know crunching on an apple makes us feel great. What we are now learning is how the compounds in apples, especially polyphenols and apple fibre actually help our bodies," Dr McMillan said. "This new evidence makes it even more important to eat the whole apple, skin and all, to ensure you&rsquo;re getting all the goodness, because a lot of the antioxidants, fibre and polyphenols are found close to or in the skin."