Reportsthat NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga (pictured) has planted spies across the UhuRuto reelection campaign team can no longer be brushed aside. Our mole at the Office of the President confirmed that it has been hard for the team to identify people leaking information to the opposition. It is now a tool used by people competing in UhuRuto’s campaign team to blackmail one another. As a result, some have been transferred and others sidelined. Our mole said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaigns are organised by the OP and State House. Most Jubilee officials are not privy to the developments. === Talk of election rigging has reached a crescendo lately. But who is the new IEBC deputy returning officer for Nairobi? Sources whisper to Corridors the man is a board member of a state corporation in charge of ICT. His hiring has raised eyebrows after the IEBC fired the initial deputy returning officer under unclear circumstances after serving for only 55 days. The Nairobi returning officer, himself a former policeman, is said to have mistreated the sacked man and allegedly pocketed some of his allowances. Maybe the IEBC needs to do more due diligence on the recruitment of its officers. Sources whisper to Corridors that the new deputy returning officer initially did interviews to be a deputy RO in Starehe constituency – and flopped. How the IEBC settled on him for the top job raises eyebrows. === Jubilee Party officials are finding it hard to traverse the country with President Uhuru Kenyatta, due to logistical challenges. The officials at the OP and State House are not supposed to reveal President Uhuru’s travelling schedule. The OP teams have perfected the art of hiding such information, treating Jubilee officials as potential competitors. But you must know early to plan, have a standby aircraft and several state-of-the-art four-by-four vehicles, as well as security. === The team handling the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta deserves a medal. They have managed to package her as a role model, a leader and a mentor. Any projects she takes part in turns out perfect in the eyes of Kenyans. Her role in hunting for votes for the President might have a stronger and more positive impact on the total votes for the incumbent. === Corridors has established that a gang (Mungiki) in Kiambu bribed officers with more than Sh100,000 to continue with their operation in the town after the Star exposed it. The gang no longer harasses other road users, but it heavily extorts matatu operators on that route. It collects Sh300 every day per PSV and Sh100,000 shillings every Saturday at a stage at Rumathi.