Three schools in Witu division, Lamu, have been unable to resume learning for two weeks for fear of being attacked by al Shabaab militants. More than 600 pupils of Pandanguo, Kakathe and Maleli primary schools have not gone back to school for two weeks. The militants destroyed a school in their recent attack in Pandanguo on Wednesday last week. More than 200 militants attacked Pandanguo police post in Lamu West and engaged officers in a fierce gun battle that lasted as long as seven hours. Witu subcounty education officerJames Akello said the schools were closed immediately after the terror attack at Pandanguo police post that left four police officers dead. Speaking in Witu town on Saturday, Akello said the schools had to be closed after teachers and pupils refused to attend classes for fear of being attacked by the militants again. Pandanguo primary school has 196 pupils, Kakathe has 220 and Maleli has 176. Akello said his office had to withdraw the more than 20 teachers at the schools over security concerns. They will be posted back once security is stabilised. Akello said he is hopeful that the schools would be re-opened next week following security measures that have been put in place. Parents have also expressed concern over the safety of their children in the schools and constant disruptions due to the frequent raids. They urged the national government to establish a permanent KDF camp at Pandanguo to end crime in the area and neighbouring regions like Kakathe, Maleli, Jima, Poromoko, Kaisari and Nyatha. Parents in Pandango are, however, planning to transfer their children to Witu primary school, which is more than 21km from Pandanguo. “We have standard eight pupils who need to sit the KCPE exam this year.Schools are closed and that means our children are missing many classes. “Time is running out and the exams are almost here. The only option we have is moving our children to Witu primary school so they can continue learning,” said Pandanguo elder Adan Golja. Villagers of Lamu’s Pandanguo village are appealing for urgent food and other aid from the government and well-wishers. They also need bedding, clothing and supplies after they were robbed by al Shabaab militants who raided the village at 5.30am on Wednesday. The more than 2,000 villagers say they might starve.