The hate leaflets demanding &ldquo;foreigners&rdquo; leave Mombasa are sponsored by politicians who fear non-natives will vote them out, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti has said.This has caused panic and some residents have started packing. The election is 32 days away on August 8.The leaflets have been dropped in Likoni, some parts of Nyali, Kisauni, Changamwe and Jomvu, where non-natives are concentrated.The leaflets read, &ldquo;Wabara Mchague Sultan na chaguo lake, la sivyo mtahama. Kumbukeni Kaya Bombo (Non-natives, vote for Sultan and his choice, failing which you will leave. Remember Kaya Bombo.)&rdquo;Awiti said politicians are promoting Kaya Bombo-like attacks, in the guise of protecting the rights of residents.In 1997, violence erupted in Likoni. Attackers killed 104 people and injured 133 others. Hundreds of structures were damaged. Attackers claimed to be blocking &ldquo;foreigners&rdquo; from taking over their land. Their real aim was to drive voters away. Kanu politicians were indicted.Awiti said on Tuesday this scenario should not be repeated, as Mombasa belongs to everyone. He spoke at a campaign event in Mvita constituency.Police have promised to apprehend the masterminds. Three arrests have been made in Likoni, but it was not known whether the suspects were behind the leaflets or merely distributing them. &ldquo;We should not allow divisions to breed among us. We are one. Mombasa belongs to the business community. Everyone here does business and should not be discriminated against on the basis of their tribe or rural homes,&rdquo; he said. He urged police to swiftly bring the culprits to book.The IEBC has been urged to bar from election anyone found culpable, saying the act is electoral misconduct and might lead to violence. Non-natives are the largest Mombasa vote bloc. They account for more than 50 per cent of the more than 550,000 votes in the county. Governor Hassan Joho is running for reelection.Awiti, Senator Hassan Omar and JP&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal are his major rivals. The Nyali MP is the only non-native in the race. He is being deputised by a Mijikenda. &ldquo;Let Mombasa residents stay put. No one will evict you. Police must offer protection,&rdquo; he said. Speaking at Majengo garage, the MP said he will secure land for the mechanics and build them a shed. More than 58 families depend on this garage. Juakali is an economic pillar.