With just 20 days to the August 8 General Election, word has it that there is discord within the NASA presidential campaign secretariat. A top campaign strategist is frustrating efforts by teams committed to ensuring flagbearer Raila Odinga (pictured) secures a first round win. It is said the strategist is thwarting people who spend their own money to mobilise and manage issues he is supposed to oversee and this could cost NASA dearly. Corridors has been told the strategist is fighting a very dedicated team working on the Adopt-a-Polling-Station concept, considered to be NASA’s winning formula against Jubilee. The strategist is said to even deploy a person believed to be working with an outspoken Mt Kenya governor to head NASA’s marketing, which amounts to frustrating the entire campaign team effort. === A once-outspoken Mt Kenya Jubilee MP before being trounced in the party primaries is very cautious in what he speaks, lest he offends his former bosses. Word has it that the MP, who is defending his seat as an independent candidate, no longer speaks freely, despite pleading with his staunch Jubilee constituents not to deny him votes for a second term in Parliament when they vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Although some Mt Kenya independents blamed Deputy President William Ruto for having a hand in their loss, the MP openly distanced himself from his colleagues, not to spoil his relationship with Jubilee and suffer out in the political cold if he loses and his former bosses retain power. It is said the MP has never believed he was beaten in the nominations and he is confident of a rematch win. === A group of ODM aspirants from Homa Bay county were yesterday heard complaining bitterly how NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga veered off the six-piece debate, when he took his campaigns to the county. The agitated aspirants wanted Raila to pronounce himself on independent candidates they consider are “growing horns”. They lamented how Raila’s silence on the matter will give the independents bragging rights they fear the upstarts could capitalise on and hoodwink voters that it was an endorsement just 20 days to the polls. They are now planning to have the opposition chief return to the region without the other NASA principals to denounce independents by preaching the six-piece vote lineup. === Are Jubilee leaders plotting to infiltrate NASA by having some opposition MPs who win seats in the August polls on their side if they retain power? UhuRuto operatives are funding some candidates allied to the opposition. It is said Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid game plan could complicate the situation.