The Constitution of Kenya 2010 provides for the equality and non-discrimination principle to ensure that women and men have a right to equal treatment, including the right to equal opportunities in political, economic, cultural and social spheres. Direct and indirect discrimination is forbidden based on grounds including race, sex, pregnancy, marital status, health status, ethnic or social origin, colour, age, disability, religion conscience, belief, culture, dress, language or birth. Further, the constitution seeks that the state will take legislative and other measures, including affirmative action programmes, and policies designed to redress the disadvantage suffered by individuals or groups in the past. The “not more than two-thirds gender rule” is established to ensure that in appointive and elective positions, not more than two thirds of members in any on public body can be of the same gender. Since Independence, Parliament has been male-dominated. The 11th parliament registered the highest numbers ever of women at 19.7 per cent for the National Assembly and 26 per cent for the Senate, all courtesy of the new constitutional dispensation. The female representation in Parliament has risen from 1.2 per cent in 1967 to 10 per cent in 2007, with very few women elected on competitive elective positions. The numbers of women in other public leadership positions has also remained very low over the years. Kenya has had poor women representation in Parliament. Young women, women with disabilities and those from marginalised and minority communities are more vulnerable to political underrepresentation. For instance, in the 2013 election, out of 290 constituency seats available for men and women to compete, only 16 women were elected. In the Senate, no woman was elected. Similar situation was seen for the gubernatorial seats. At the county assemblies, out of 1,450 seats available, only 86 women were elected and over 740 women were nominated, courtesy of the two-thirds gender rule, which calls for nominating from party lists the number of special seat members necessary to ensure that no more than two-thirds of the membership of the assembly are of the same gender. That consideration should be given to marginalised groups, including persons with disability and the youth, as provided in the Elections Act. The National Gender and Equality Commission is a constitutional body established to ensure compliance with the equality and inclusion principles. The NGEC monitored the election process in 2013 and is currently monitoring the process towards the August 8 general election. The following stands out as key challenges to women participation in elective positions: Cultural barriers, financial constraints, gender-based violence, coping with the dual women roles, biases and stereotypes. In the upcoming election, women have registered very low numbers of aspirants as compared to men. Firstly, there is no female presidential candidate nor running mate. While there are 202 male aspirants for gubernatorial seats, there are only nine women for the same. Some 256 men are running for senatorial seats, with only 20 women. At the parliamentary level, only 131 women are cleared, as compared to 1,761 men. The county assembly level has registered the highest female competitors at 31.6 per cent. These are 900 women against 10,957 men. On average, only 28.8 per cent of women are in the race. To help women participate in political life on equal basis with men, Kenya has taken several measures, including the gender quotas provided for by the constitution and economic empowerment through the Women Enterprise Fund. The country should embrace the changing gender roles of men and women. We need to educate men and women, boys and girls to appreciate the role played by both genders in development. Education will help society to appreciate the dual gender roles and the need to balance. We need to remove the role biases and profile men and women, boys and girls as leaders. Currently, most women are bread winners and heading families. We can replicate the same in leadership at other levels beyond the family. Communities require education to recognise harmful cultural practices that undermine gender roles and shun them. Women should not be discriminated against for being women. Gender-based violence is a violation of women’s rights.  All violators must be prosecuted and justice given to the women and girls. Lastly, women when threatened become fearful. We need to guarantee the women vying and participating in the 2017 election security. All Kenyans need to be safe to have a peaceful election. Winfred Lichuma is the chairperson, National Gender and Equality Commission