Twenty-eight cases of hate speech and inflammatory language were recorded between May and June. This is according to the Elections Observation Group Media Monitoring Unit, which assesses spread, degree and substance of hate speech and inflammatory language on radio, TV and newspapers. The unit’s report is a culmination of monitoring of five national TV stations, 13 radio stations, including four county-based ones, and four local dailies. This is the second report since the monitoring of traditional media outlets started. Leo Mutisya, who is leading the initiative, said it is aimed at deterring hate and inflammatory remarks. In the report, four cases of radio presenters who perpetrate hate speech on their shows was recorded. “A number of reported perpetrators were radio presenters, and Kameme FM was in the lead, with a number of incidents recorded against it, including one where they castigated, stereotyped and even played mocking songs against Koigi Wamwere for his political decision to switch political allegiance,” Mutisya said. “Kass FM, which had one of its presenters accused of fanning the 2007-08 post-election violence, has been very careful at times, keeping off politics, and, if they do, only speaks about the government successes and its portal,” he said. Even though they take part in political debates, Radio Citizen, Radio  Ramogi and Ghetto Radio had zero incidences of hate or use of inflammatory language. Other perpetrators were candidates, aspirants and state officers, the report shows. Cases of abusive language were also recorded. The incidences, Mutisya said, will be shared with respective government agencies, including the Media Council of Kenya, for action. Citizen TV, NTV, KTN, K24, KBC, Chamgei FM, Mulembe FM, Mbaitu, Inooro, Radio Lake Victoria (Homa Bay), Radio Ingo (Western), Radio Rahma (Mombasa) and all daily newspapers are being monitored by the group every day. Early this week, the NCIC warned the public against spreading hate on social media as the August 8 general election approaches. Commissioner Joseph Nasongo said the agency is monitoring WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter to rein in hatemongers. He cited propaganda for war, incitement to violence and hate speech as some of the aspects on their radar.