Corporate firms are now running to cloud-based solutions for safety and to cut operational expenditure, in the wake of global cyber attacks that affected at least 20 local companies in the last two months. The shift will also reduce operational costs and offer safe platforms to host business information, delivery of unshared dedicated capacity that allows video conferencing and enabling of a mobile office. Addressing information technology experts from different firms yesterday, telecom enabler SEACOM business sales lead Patrick Ndegwa said Kenyan organisations will need to work on designing and implementing resilient information security infrastructure for them to be sure of safety. “Cloud-based information security solutions hold the key to tackling the new generation of cyber threats confronting Kenyan organisations in a connected world,” Ndegwa said. Among the top solutions being adapted by corporates are online backup, hosted emails, customer relationship management, and virtual servers which is a shift from connectivity via fibre. In a cyber security discussion last month, ICT Authority chief executive Robert Mugo singled out financial institutions and the government as the most vulnerable firms to be attacked. According to Huawei Kenya chief executive, Dean Yu, the urge to have secure platform for business transactions is expected to spur the take up of cloud solutions among Kenyan corporates in the coming years. Despite the shift, institutions such as banks have faced regulatory changes in what has been termed by Central Bank as increase leverage on technology. Last month, Central Bank of Kenya introduced new rules to guide commercial banks on fighting cybercrime as the vice increases in the East African nation. The rules came after several financial institutions lost up to $291 million (Sh30.15 billion) to cyber criminals in the last two years as reported by CBK. The regulator has since directed all board of directors and senior management to formulate and implement cyber risk strategies, policy, procedures and guidelines.