Jubilee leaders from Kisii county on Wednesday evening lashed out at NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga for interfering with the work of acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. They asked Raila to respect Matiang’i, saying he deserved the appointment like any other qualified Kenyan. Matiang’i has made radical changes in the education sector. He earned the sobriquet “the Magufuli of Kenya” because of his impromptu visits to public schools. The Education CS was appointed to the position by President Uhuru Kenyatta following the sudden death of Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery on July 8. The leaders said they are appalled at Raila’s attacks on Matiang’i. Raila had said Matiang’i plans to rig the August 8 election. The Kisii leaders made the remarks in a statement issued on their behalf by Bomachoge Borabu MP Joel Onyancha and Kisii governor candidate Chris Obure’s running mate Albert Nyaundi at St Vincent Pastoral Centre. “We are very much disgusted by Odinga for interfering with the work of Interior acting CS Fred Matiang’i,” Onyancha said. He said the President would not have allowed a vacuum in the Interior ministry, and has the power to appoint someone in an acting capacity in the meantime. Onyancha said they have been monitoring Raila’s remarks. He cited Raila’s dismissal of the appointment of Ken Nyaundi as a commissioner of the defunct Interim Independent Electoral Commission, and Mohamed Nyaoga’s hiring as Central Bank chairman. The MP said Raila does not consider Kisii to be part of Nyanza. “We are telling Odinga to respect the sons and daughters of Omogusii who are appointed to various positions by the government,” Nyaundi said. He said it is wrong for a senior leader such as Raila to say the country is not at war and there was no need for the President to rush the appointment of Matiang’i to the Interior docket. The leaders criticised Raila for claiming Matiang’i was working in cahoots with IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to rig the election. “Odinga must understand being an acting Interior CS, Matiang’i has a constitutional right to work with any organisation for the sake of the country’s security,” Onyancha said. Raila alleged Matiang’i was scheming with the IEBC on the pretext of discussing security matters. He made the rigging claims at Kibra, Nairobi, during campaigns. “This election will be a peaceful revolution.We want to warn Matiang’i. He is a player in the Jubilee team and cannot purport to be a neutral arbiter,” Raila said. Nyaundi said, “We cannot understand why Odinga gets angry when a Kisii is appointed to a top position, and yet when he comes to campaign in the region he says he is at home.” Onyancha said Raila is free to seek votes in any part of the country but should not use the opportunity to attack  individuals given the responsibility to serve Kenyans.