Considering the current political situation in the country, Agora Theatre's Parliament of Owls is the absolute performance to steer the conversation of good governance forward. The play, which was first staged at the Kenya National Theatre on June 24, is an adaption of Adipo Sidang's poetry collection christened Parliament of Owls. When the poetry book was first launched in November 2016, the author incorporated the University of Nairobi's Free Travelling Theatre, who offered a narrative performance of the book. Pleased by the audience's favourable response, the author was prompted to adapt it into a play in order to reach out to a wider audience. Directed by Kimingichi Wabende, the play, which is a wider idea of the book, is set in the kingdom of birds. The owls rule over four tribes of birds&mdash;the Night Birds, the Day Birds, the Grain Eaters and the Omnivores. The various characters are portrayed by performers in feather-like costumes and beak masks."We decided to use birds because sometimes it is good to tell the story of human beings through the eyes of non-human beings," says Adipo.Adipo, who was part of play, explains the plot first by contrasting the Western ideology that considers an owl as a symbol of intelligence to that of Africans who label it a symbol of bad omen.The play depicts how other birds come together to change a dubious, legislative system that is run by owls who take part in dishonest practices that only benefit them. The birds, supported by some of the uncompromised owls, trick their way into the power and ensure it is not exclusive to owls.The play is a political satire championing justice and good governance. However, Adipo does not limit it to political organisations."It is not limited to our parliamentarians alone. We can equate an institution to the 'Parliament of Owls'. Look at our pastors, corporate heads and police officers. Those are owls," says Adipo.The play is expected to show on various stage across the country to the end of the year. Sidang also envisions introducing it to schools to educate students on how to analyse plays. "We are working in conjunction with AfroGovernance Youth Forum, who are basically pushing for civic education through alternative platforms such as literature, arts, music and theatre," says Adipo.