The &ldquo;Africa Trade Report 2017&rdquo; by Afrexim Bank has five good policy lessons for Africa. The lessons are based on the winning strategy where countries look at what they can do well, based on what they have, and then create the conditions to scale up what they can do well. First, industrial promotion strategies that are in line with the stage of development are more effective. The aim is to make the most of available tradeable resources and advantages.Within this space, innovation is used to buy and integrate new technology to increase output and quality. For instance, to get the most out of the tea sector based on the advantage that the country has the highest market share of tea globally.There is also the opportunity presented by rising labour costs in China and factories are looking to relocate to countries with lower labour costs.Second, efficient and reliable institutions can reduce bottlenecks that discourage investment. Well-known constraints such as red tape, infrastructure, legal systems, work force issues, financial capital etc. increase the cost of production. Industrial parks and economic zones are one way of creating a concentration of economic activity and an anchor for more development. Third, an efficient market is important to signal the relative prices of production factors. The prices of scarce resources rise while those of goods in plentiful supply fall. This helps to tell investors where investment opportunities are. For instance recently, because of the growth of the construction sector, prices of cement increased because demand was higher than supply. Some entrepreneurs saw the opportunity and invested in a new cement factory. Fourth, countries need to drive capital towards sectors that have the highest potential. Tax incentives, budgetary policies and industry strategies need to work together and focus on these sectors. The aim is to drive private investment towards them. Where returns are slow and long-term in nature, development finance becomes necessary. Financial reforms may be necessary to meet the financing needs.Finally, government needs to monitor shifts in factor advantages and align strategy. The comparative advantage of factors is constantly shifting. The government then focuses its efforts on building infrastructure and institutions that support industries operating within the new factor advantages. This will enable those industries to thrive and maximise on economic growth. The monitoring can also inform government investment plans. When the economy is in decline, for instance, the government may choose to invest in infrastructure to take advantage of the low cost of capital and create employment. This will also stimulate the economy.These lessons provide a dynamic base to drive industry growth and economic development. To support these lessons is the need to mobilise domestic resources. This may be by improving tax collection, broadening the tax base, reducing capital flight and increasing local financial resource mobilization.Kandie is a risk consultant with First Trident