Tusker FC tactician George &lsquo;Best&rsquo; Nsimbe has been named the Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month for May.Nsimbe was voted unanimously by the Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) Football Commission after maintaining an unbeaten run of five games to bag all the 15 points available.After a slow start to the campaign this season, where the defending Kenyan Premier League (KPL) champions lost their first two opening matches, the brewers took maximum points from every game in May. Speaking yesterday while receiving the award at their Ruaraka Sports Club base, Nsimbe exuded confidence that his charges will retain the KPL title as well as the GOtv Shield.&ldquo;I feel great to win this award just six months after joining the team. I thank my technical staff, the players and fans who made me win the &lsquo;Coach of the Month&rsquo; award for May. We started the season badly, but we knew we were the defending champions and we sat down as the technical bench and rectified our mistakes,&rdquo; Nsimbe said.&ldquo;We still believe we can retain the title because there are a lot of games remaining. We finished the first leg on a high and I am sure we can make a repeat performance in the second.&rdquo; Nsimbe started that month with a hard-fought 1-0 win against Kakamega Homeboyz, then beat Zoo Kericho 2-0 away from home, followed up with the 2-1 victory over Sony Sugar and a 2-0 win over struggling Mathare United. Tusker finished the month of May with a 1-0 result over giants AFC Leopards as Nsimbe&rsquo;s side climbed joint top with record 15-time champions Gor Mahia at the KPL table.For his splendid performance, the Ugandan tactician was rewarded with a winner&rsquo;s plaque and Sh75,000 and become the third coach after the then Gor Mahia coach Jose &lsquo;Ze Maria&rsquo; Marcelo Ferreira (March winner) and Posta Rangers&rsquo; Sammy &lsquo;Pamzo&rsquo; Omollo (April winner). Fidelity Insurance marketing and business development manager, Nicholas Malesi assured the partnership with SJAK will continue to see football develop in the country.&ldquo;As Fidelity Insurance, it&rsquo;s an honour to be part of this partnership. We just want to reaffirm our commitment that we are here for the longest term. Despite the economic challenges, we will still honour our part of the bargain by coming through this partnership that we have with SJAK,&rdquo; Malesi stated.&ldquo;We have seen it work. We were here sometimes last year so we have just confirmed that excellence is at Tusker thus doing the league proud. It&rsquo;s a competitive season the two teams (Gor and Tusker) are tied at the top and we expect the quality football will continue in the second leg,&rdquo; Malesi added.Nsimbe took the reign at the 11-time KPL champions this season after the departure of his fellow compatriot Paul Nkata, is tasked to defend the top tier league title and the GOtv Shield.