Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa has implicated a section of Lamu politicians for being linked to the spate of terror attacks in the county. Marwa on Sunday said the recent abduction of Public Works PS Mariam El Maawy by al Shabaab militants was politically instigated. Read: KDF rescues Public Works PS El-Maawy, five others abducted by al Shabaab in Lamu Also read: Al Shabaab shot PS El-Maawy in chest, fractured her hand - police report He said the plan was to create a situation of insecurity so that locals flee and fail to vote in the August 8 general election. The official said it was also clear that only persons and places affiliated to the Jubilee Party were been targeted by the terror attacks. Marwa said the incidents in Poromoko, Pandanguo, and Jima areas are part of the strategy to scare voters. He said has information of politicians who were funding criminals and having them conduct attacks in order to scare residents. "The perpetrators will be apprehended whether alive or dead. They want people to think it is terrorists but we know the issue is political." "We want the perpetrators to know that people will vote and will do so in large numbers when polling stations open next month," Marwa said. He claimed politicians from Lamu and neighboring Tana River counties have been funding the terrorists to conduct the attacks. Marwa further said he is aware of politicians from the two counties who funded youths to wreak havoc during campaigns. "The politicians are taking care of the terrorists including feeding them and ensuring they live comfortably inside Boni Forest." Marwa, therefore, issued a shoot-to-kill order for any terrorist spotted in the county. "Why hasn’t the governor or any leader for that matter come out to even issue a condolence message to the families who lost their loved ones?" he asked. "Whats the meaning of their silence? These people are given food and weapons. They pass through villages as they go to conduct raids." Meanwhile, the coast security boss said al Shabaab gets information from spies stationed at the region's main entry and exit points. He directed police officers to ensure all persons entering and leaving Lamu town are thoroughly frisked before being allowed to continue with their journey. Marwa said an operation to hunt down militants who attacked the PS last week was still underway adding that Operation Linda Boni will not end soon.