I have been involved in writing many manifestos, from my college days at Makerere University, seeking student leadership, to now dealing with party mission statements.To say that all manifestos are the same is a damn lie. To say that they all tell lies is yet another lie. One can disagree with a manifesto, but that does not mean that it is a lie or a carbon copy of another manifesto. Once it is a carbon copy then it ceases to be a manifesto; It becomes a plaything of a person or a group of people who are not serious about putting forth their ideas and aspirations to an audience or audiences whose approval or support is sought.The current discussions on the Jubilee and NASA manifestos seem to be dominated by a lot of passion between &ldquo;approvers&rdquo; and &ldquo;disapprovers&rdquo;, or between supporters and virulent critics. This is not necessarily a bad thing: It makes readers take interest in the content of the two documents. The debate further draws attention to the fact that something is at stake in these two manifestos. It is this thing which is at stake that interests me immensely, and why it should be fought over or sought via the manifesto and the arguments it raises.The thing at stake is state power. Jubilee currently occupies state power. This means Jubilee rules Kenya. The executive power of government lies in the hands of the Jubilee leaders, to be specific Uhuru Kenyatta as President and William Ruto as Deputy President. But executive power is not exercised in a vacuum: It is exercised to serve and reproduce a system of social and economic relations, in which the interests of many people are served. Businessmen are key players: They do a lot of business with the state. Imagine all that complicated equipment the military buys from time to time. The businessmen who sell this equipment must make a lot of money, hence they are always interested in who controls state power. They will be keen to ensure a manifesto that seeks support from voters will guarantee them the election of a party or a coalition that will give them business.A coalition or a political party may decide that while it recognises businessmen as key players in society, the focus of the government it intends to serve is not really businessmen but ordinary folk &mdash; farmers, carpenters, watchmen, students, workers and so on. In any case, these are the majority when it comes to looking for votes. The manifesto will , therefore, seek to appeal for support from these sections of society, even though the key interests the wielders of state power will serve after elections may be quite different. I say &ldquo;key&rdquo; interests and not &ldquo;all&rdquo; interests. There is definitely no manifesto on earth that can serve the interests of everybody; but &ldquo;key&rdquo; interests must always be there. How, then, do we identify these key interests?First, the people who are at the forefront of any movement or political party that seeks to get state power do not drop like manna from heaven; they live with us right here on earth.Second, they do not get into politics because they are missionaries. They get into politics because they want to advance certain interests &mdash; including theirs &mdash; by occupying state power.Third, even when we have identified their interests, they are clever enough to know that winning an election is &ldquo;a game of numbers&rdquo;. And since they need the majority to win the election, they must somehow &ldquo;gather this majority&rdquo; from somewhere. It is the manner of &ldquo;gathering majorities&rdquo; and the way majorities are glued together after elections that distinguishes the objectives and aims of one party from another.When people ask whether our parties differ or are similar in ideologies or not, quite often they miss the point by rushing and concluding that our parties are the same ideologically because they all appeal to ethnic or tribal sentiments &ldquo;to gather majorities.&rdquo; They forget to ask a further question which could then bring out the ideological differences among our parties. And this question is: How do they seek to keep these majorities together once in state power or out of it?I have noticed two distinct types of political coalitions in our country: Jubilee and Cord/NASA. That, perhaps, is not a very earthshaking discovery. But I have discovered something further. These two coalitions have two very different ways of &ldquo;keeping the majorities&rdquo; they have gathered to win state power after the election.Jubilee has tended to adopt an &ldquo;adhesive tape approach&rdquo; of keeping its majority together very much like totalitarian political parties do while Cord/NASA has sought a mobilisation strategy, where the coalition is always opening doors to a broader majority with an expansive leadership at the top. Unfortunately, in Kenya&rsquo;s short history, the name Kenyatta has been associated with the rise of the &ldquo;imperial presidency&rdquo;, while the name &ldquo;Odinga&rdquo; has been associated with the challenge to this type of regime, preferring state power based on popular mobilisation and devolution of political power. A state controlled by a powerful presidential elite is less likely to serve broad popular interests, however benevolent, than a state based on broad popular participation and mass mobilization. The former is more likely to nurture a capitalist developmental state with &ldquo;democracy for the few&rdquo;, while the latter is more likely to nurture a national democratic and developmental state with &ldquo;popular democracy&rdquo;.Please do not ask me to elaborate. I may end up writing a whole book on this which may not be allowed within the space I am provided here. But one thing I want to tell the reader for free is that devolution is much safer where you deliberately set out to build a &ldquo;national democratic and developmental state&rdquo; than where you emphasise big infrastructural projects as &ldquo;the engines of growth&rdquo; without bothering much about the costs. These costs inform the sacrifices the nation has to make regarding prioritising other &ldquo;human development initiatives&rdquo;, which promote social democratic cohesion among our people. Where people who wield state power are themselves &ldquo;tenderpreneurs&rdquo;, big infrastructural projects, costing an arm and a leg, and put up at great costs to the economy through expensive foreign commercial debts, will definitely subvert any possibility for the emergence of a national developmental and democratic state.Why is this type of state desirable in our context? First, it requires that the &ldquo;majority&rdquo; on which the legitimacy of wielding state power is derived be truly national &mdash; representative of the face of the nation. A government formed as a result of putting together such a nationally based majority cannot seek to deliberately lose its legitimacy by becoming parochial or sectarian. It will be compelled, by its very basis of legitimacy, to seek development on a &ldquo;national democratic agenda.&rdquo;For it, therefore, devolution comes very naturally as it seeks to address the interests of all its constituent parts within the nation, lest it loses its legitimacy. In this regard, right from the word go, its ideological orientation would not be the same as a party or coalition which depends on weaving the &ldquo;adhesive tape of loyalty&rdquo; around those it &ldquo;has netted within the coalition&rdquo;, however uncomfortable some of them may have become.I think this is the dilemma Jubilee has been going through as it faces challenges from within and as it finds it very difficult to rediscover its basis of legitimacy when the people of Kenya, in general, are aware of their national democratic and developmental rights.