Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe wants the government to protect Western maize farmers from profiteers. He expressed concern that farmers in Kakamega, Bungoma and Busia sell a 90-kg bag of maize at only Sh2,000 to “exploitative traders”. This only weeks after residents bought a bag at Sh5,600. “Unscrupulous traders have swarmed the counties with trucks to exploit residents [and take] of their hard-earned harvests,” Wangwe said. “We urge the government to set the right prices for farmers to get value for their produce. Let the farmer be protected to be motivated to continue growing maize.” Kenya has been hit by a maize shortage. The majority of Kenyans rely on maize flour to prepare ugali, a staple food for many communities. The national government has allocated Sh6 billion to ensure Kenyans can afford maize flour. The money mainly pays for import, processing and distribution of the flour throughout the country. A 2kg packet of subsidised flour sells for Sh90. However, a spot check reveals that some traders sell it for more, despite a government warning. In some rural areas, subsidised maize — not flour — is sold to consumers so they can mill it themselves. The government has promised that more imported maize from Zambia and Ethiopia is expected at the Port of Mombasa in the coming weeks. Wangwe said farmers must benefit from their toil. He said Western farmers sell their produce at a throw-away price because they need money to meet their needs in harsh economic times. “It is important for the government to intervene and ensure they get better returns from their sweat,” he said. Kakamega county executive for Agriculture Kulati Wangia yesterday said the county expects a surplus of at least 1 million bags of maize. He said it might be sold by the end of this harvesting season. The county projects that farmers will harvest 2.3 million bags of maize. “The county government lacks the capacity to handle excess produce because of lack of resources and storage facilities to procure the produce from growers,” he said. “The National Cereals and Produce Board should set the price and open grain collection centres to receive maize from farmers,” he said. The county has written to the NCPB about maize pricing and the need to set up grain buying centres in Butere, Matungu, Mumias West, Mumias East and Navakholo subcounties.