Former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile has accused NASA of planning to take over country's leadership by force after August 8 polls. He claimed that the heckling of Jubilee Party leaders during a tour of Raila Odinga's home turf was a failed plan to cause chaos. Kalembe said he feels the youths wanted police to fire back and shoot people so that the opposition could stage a massive demonstration. Raila condemned the incident further pledging to keep peace during the campaigns and after the polls. The ODM leader said every politician has a right to campaign anywhere in the country further adding that his team will accept results of a free, fair and credible poll. [VIDEO] Rowdy crowds disrupt Uhuru, Raila events But Kalembe accused the team of playing confrontational politics to get into leadership under circumstances akin to the failed 1982 coup attempt. He made the remarks at Lukore in Kwale last week when he led Kamba community elders in declaring support for President Uhuru Kenyatta. The 'Lukore Kamba community declaration' in Kwale targets over 56,000 Ukambani voters rallying behind Uhuru. "We urge Kambas to fully support Uhuru since they stand to benefit more from the Jubilee administration." Kalembe was accompanied by KNUT chairman Mudzo Nzili. He said the opposition has panicked and sensed defeat hence resorting to media briefings instead of campaigns. "When you are playing football, there are some players who stage their fall so as to get a free penalty kick. That is Raila's trick," Kalembe said. On the Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho tiff with Uhuru, Kalembe said they are waiting for the governor's wife to apologise to the president. "It should be like in the Bible when a woman begged for forgiveness for her husband for being a fool," he said. Nzili said it will be an uphill task for opposition to defeat Jubilee, especially now that they are the government. "The opposition should know that this election is over," the Knut official said. Nzili and Secretary General Wilson Sossion are reading from different scripts on the election as the latter supports NASA.       