Kenya&rsquo;s case is entirely different. Agreeably, the 2013 election introduced Kenyans to the period of glamour-filled manifestos launches that promised to propel the country into the league of world leading countries. The then Jubilee coalition, comprising TNA and URP, did not waste time and resources displaying their intentions to make Kenya a country of enviable development in the region. The outfit may not have won by that particular document, but at least they had indicated that they desired to bring actual development and change the lives and fortunes of Kenyans. What was promised and what was delivered is for you, the reader, to judge.Right now, as you read this piece, there is this feeling that the country is going in the wrong direction, especially in terms of the economy. Very few businesses &mdash; large or SME&rsquo;s &mdash; are reporting good profits. Unemployment is at an all time high. Personally, most of my age-mates, despite bearing exceptional qualifications and skills are sitting at home with nothing productive to do. If an entity opens job opportunities requiring only 10 employees, the applications will border on their thousands. This reality is implying that the country is wasting its youth from all fronts. Frustrations are replacing ambitions. Indeed, there is a permanent outbreak of hopelessness and stress in this nation. Therefore, any party using manifestos as bait to get votes should tread very carefully. All promises presented, therein, must, by all means, result in a better Kenya. If a mega infrastructure project is outlined, the resultant economic effects to the people of Kenya must be carefully analyzed. If we have the SGR yet most young people cannot even afford a return trip to the Coast, it then means t we are off-grid in our objectives. No matter how many stadiums are introduced, the productive people of this country would wish to work first and then troop to the stadiums. I cannot deny that we have sportsmen and women whose livelihood is entirely pegged on sports, but if the stadiums come without credible plans that can monetise the activities held there, it will all, be in vain. What I know is, the current situation of jobless yet skilled youths cannot just go on forever. Something has to give and time is coming when governments will be told about this truth in the most unforgiving manner. Implicitly, parties or coalitions must be told that Kenyans will not persevere forever as they take us for a ride. What needs to be done must be done as we cannot afford to eternally listen to well-written manifestos on hungry stomachs.