Nairobi Senate candidate Suzanne Lengewa awed Kenyans with her eloquence and knowledge on issues during the Senate debate on Friday night at Daystar University. The 23-year-old was lauded for her performance and engagement during the live TV event. Lengewa, an independent candidate, is among the youngest politicians vying in the August 8 general election. "I am vying to be the senator of Nairobi because I do not want to watch from the sidelines anymore. We are really underestimated as young people, so I want to inspire young people that we need to stop limiting ourselves on what we can achieve," she said. She debated alongside Johnson Sakaja (Jubilee), Edwin Sifuna (ODM), and Rameshchandra Gorasia (Wiper). Others were Zacharia Momanyi (Republican Liberty Party), John Wamagata (Safina) and Dennis Nthumbi (Agano Party). Kenyans took to Twitter to share their excitement at Lengewa's bid, saying she will make an impact. Felix Malombe said, "I have never seen courage so great. I wish Suzanne Lengewa was my daughter, it would make me so proud right now." June Okal said Lengewa is an inspiration "given her understanding of Kenyan politics and the need o help people get better leadership". "Kenyans should invest in their kids like what I am witnessing in Lengewa, she is sure going places and whether she wins or not then give her time and she will indeed make impact in our lives as Kenyans," she added. Duncan Kemboi lauded the young candidates for proving that her age is not a barrier towards getting dreams to realisation. "Lengewa is the reason why our young girls and boys will make it in the grand stage because they can now wine, dine and even challenges their older peers with reason," he tweeted. With 18 days to the general election, Kenyans on social media have been showing love to young, inspiring candidates. Presidential candidate running mate Muthiora Kariara is among recent politicians who has been showered with praise after he was the sole participant in the running mates' live TV debate. Also read: KOT shows love for little-known running mate candidate Muthiora Kariara