Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said the first Senate turned itself into an extortion ring instead of protecting devolution. He said senators only summoned governors to intimidate them so they give bribes. The governor was addressing a public rally in Fuvuye market, Malava subcounty, on Monday. “They wanted money and I said I can’t give them money. Ask yourself why not a single governor they summoned over corruption has been charged in court. I will never go back to the Senate even if Jesus comes back,” Oparanya said. The county boss snubbed several Senate summonses to respond to audit queries for the four-and-a-half years he has been in office. The governor said the Senate lacks commitment in its oversight role, and should leave the work to county assemblies. In the Constitution 2010, the Senate represents the counties, and serves to protect the interests of the counties and their governments. It also participates in the law-making function of Parliament by considering, debating and approving bills concerning counties, as provided in Articles 109 to 113. Oparanya moved to the High Court seeking interpretation of the law to know whether the Senate has the power to summon sitting governors. The court ruled governors must not appear before the Senate in person, but through county executives. He claimed his main rival and outgoing Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale wanted to be governor so he can loot public funds. “Khalwale thinks that the county is a place for stealing,” Oparanya said. Khalwale has, however, insisted that he wants to stop open looting of public coffers by Oparanya. Speaking in Kakamega on Friday, Khalwale accused Oparanya of paying Sh96 million to a company associated with him, even though the firm did not deliver any service. The senator claimed the county government paid ASCODA Company Sh28 million vide voucher number 0404 on March 2, and another Sh68million as reflected on voucher number 0616 on June 7. He said the county government withdrew Sh461 million between March and June this year for campaigns on the pretext of public participation. On Monday, Oparanya warned the people of Malava against electing candidates running on other parties other than ODM. His running mate Philip Kutima comes from the area. Oparanya said he will only endorse Kutima as his successor if Malava constituency votes for ODM leaders only in all elective positions. “Don’t blame me if you miss development because of electing leaders on other parties. It is like putting a bullock and a donkey together to plough land which is not possible,” Oparanya said. Oparanya accused Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula of forcing ODM candidates in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties to step down in favour of those running on Ford Kenya.