There was once a rap group known as Geto Boys, and in 1991 they released hip hop single Mind Playing Tricks on Me. It was so good that in 2012, two decades after release, Rolling Stone Magazine ranked it the fifth greatest hip hop song of all time. My guess is a lot of people in Kenya never got to hear it. Either because they weren&rsquo;t born yet, or they were in nappies, and if they were old enough, they didn&rsquo;t pay attention to the lyrics. If you happen to fall into any category among this lot, then you missed out on a very educational song that offered lessons on the many ways the mind plays tricks on us. The song, the rap group, the very idea of minds leading individuals astray without them knowing it came to me as the only possible reason I can think of to explain the hate, the insults, and the emotions I&rsquo;m seeing on social media surrounding politics. People are catching feelings too much about things that don&rsquo;t concern them. But before we get to the feelings, a look at the mind first, and just two of the many tricks it plays on us. Trick one, memory vis-&agrave;-vis imagination. We think memory is real compared to imagination because our minds tell us that the process of memorising and recall works just like an audio-visual recording device. Research, however, says that&rsquo;s not how it works. Instead, memory is a complex process that goes: When you see or hear something, that information is converted into a construct that can be stored in the brain. This is called encoding. To retrieve that information involves locating the memory, reconstructing it back to the way it was originally encoded, and returning it to our consciousness; we call this recall. Simply put, memory is not a playback of events, it is of our minds making, a construct, just like imagination. We don&rsquo;t see it as such only because the source material for memory is based on things that happened. Ever wondered why people say, &lsquo;That&rsquo;s not how I remember it,&rsquo; when confronted by a different version of past events? Why do you think different people remember the same thing differently? Mind tricks. Trick two, numbers. Numbers exist only in our minds. They are a mental construct for there is nowhere you will find a number out there in the physical world. Pick a number, any number, the number nine for instance. What does the number nine look like, not on paper or in your head, but out there in the physical world? You can talk about what an elephant, walking in the Savannah, looks like, take a game drive and you&rsquo;ll see one, but can you, along the same lines, talk about the number nine? Do you imagine a day will come when you&rsquo;ll cross paths with a nine out in the Savannah?The mind is a beautiful servant and a dangerous master. Remember this whenever you get hot under the collar about politics because your mind is telling you that you have something in common with a politician, that you share the same concerns. You don&rsquo;t, it&rsquo;s all in the mind, unless of course like them, your kids go to international schools as well, and your family gets medical attention abroad.Rule your mind or it will rule you. &ndash; Horace