Independent governor aspirant Ochill Ayacko has accused Migori police of siding with incumbent Okoth Obado.The former cabinet minister said he has filed many complaints and recorded statements but that officers are yet to take action.Ayako said he is sure of winning the August 8 poll, which he said has caused Obado's camp to panic, threaten his supporters and disrupt rallies."The Governor, his bodyguards and several AP officers, including his in-laws who are armed, have been intimidating my supporters. Despite lodging several complaints, nothing has been done,&rdquo; Ayacko told journalists in Migori town on Monday.The politician said he has also personally called the county security team but that nothing has been done.On Sunday, his campaign manager Jacky Gard was assaulted by two people known to her while walking in Awendo town. She reported the matter as Awendo police station.&ldquo;Sadly, the following day the same people came to report an incident at the same station. No action was taken by Awendo officers,&rdquo; he said.Ayacko noted the perception of police favour for Obado will result in chaos during polls.He wants Awendo returning officer Musa Olwalo transferred as he is related to the Governor. He claimed they taught in the same school, are from the same clan and that he has been hostile during past campaigns.&ldquo;We need the picking of presiding officers and their deputies to be transparent."Migori AP Commander Daniel Rukunga said police in the county are neutral and urged Ayacko to report any who misbehave.County police commander David Kirui also said this but blamed politicians saying they hold rallies without informing them.He said they only receive complains in case of insecurity and they will be forced to demand disclosure by politicians.More on this: Migori chaos manifested tense Obado-Ayako rivalry ahead of ODM nominationsRead: Migori youths turn against ODM for Jubilee after Obado given certificate'THEY CARRY CRUDE WEAPONS, GUNS'But Obado's press director told a media briefing their supporters have also been harassed by Ayacko's.Nicholas Anyuor also said the claim they have a hand in the election of IEBC officials was far-fetched.Obado condemned the escalating violence that has left more than 30 people believed to be his supporters injured.The ODM Governor added that most of his supporters are living in fear and that the attacks are targeted.&ldquo;My supporters are living in fear. One candidate is out to kill the people of Migori. This is so sad. They carry crude weapons and guns,&rdquo; he said in a press statement.Obado said 34 cases have been reported so far and that police have assured they will take action.After the NASA rally at Migori stadium on Friday, scores of people believed to be Obado&rsquo;s supporters were attacked and 30 of them injured in Migori town.They have recorded statements with police.Resident Luke Ochieng' said: "The attackers didn&rsquo;t want to see us in Obado and Raila t-shirts. They ensured we removed them or removed them by force. It was a bad moment. This violence must be curtailed."On Sunday, four of Obado's supporters were attacked by gun-wielding thugs who are reportedly well-known to them.&ldquo;We were going to church when they blocked our way before asking us why we were supporting Obado. They were carrying guns. We were beaten and one of us, a man, was stripped. It was an ugly scene,&rdquo; said victim Agnes Nyamigori.Ayacko dismissed claims that his supporters were behind the attacks.&ldquo;They may know those who attacked them but that is propaganda to taint my image," he said and urged the submission of evidence.Victim Philip Ojala said he saw the attackers and is ready to identify them.&ldquo;I know some of those who attacked us. We reported the matter at Macalder police station and are hopeful police will take action."