Red pepper farming is slowly taking root in West Pokot county, a predominantly semi-arid region often hit hard by drought. Farmers are changing the trend and embracing drought-tolerant crops like chili. Our long and rough drive leads us to Sheila Cherop’s home in Kangorio village. She is among farmers who have taken up chili farming and other fruit crops in her one and a half acre of land. The middle-aged mother of three says she completed her diploma course in social work and community development at the University of Eldoret two years ago, and because getting a job was difficult, she decided to concentrate on farming. “We bought this land in 2008 and decided to do fruit farming of water melon, paw paw, mangoes and bananas. Now we are also growing chili thanks to a programme by the Food Agricultural Organisation, which is supporting farmers in buying a water tank and doing drip irrigation to grow the crop,” she says. Cherop adds that pepper is ideal for her since the place is dry and there is water scarcity, but with drip irrigation, she can grow chili, which is tolerant to drought. “With the little water we get twice a week, I can store in the 8,000 litre tank and use some for my household needs and the rest for growing chili through the drip irrigation,” Cherop says. It is her first time to grow chili, and she has currently planted seedlings in a nursery ready for transplanting in a quarter acre. She says the ready market is a big motivation to farmers, who have signed a three-year contract with a company in Malindi. A kilogramme of dry pepper will be bought at Sh200. “All a farmer needs to do is plant chili and ensure good agronomic practices to meet the required quality and standard. After harvest, someone will come to buy it from us. This is an advantage for us, as marketing our farm produce such as papaw and water melons has always been a big challenge, since we can only sell them at the local market, where the price is often low,” Cherop explains. Germination of chili seeds takes an average of seven days in the nursery and two to three months to mature after transplanting. “I will be able to use little water by using the drip irrigation, unlike maize, which needs a lot of water, and I will be able to save more water and grow other fruits crops. Maize is also easily affected by diseases and pests, such as the armyworm, but chili has fewer diseases. I want to change from animal keeping because most of the livestock died during the recent prolonged drought and we could hardly afford school fees for our children,” Cherop says. TURNING POINT Farmers in Ortum and Sebit in West Pokot county have not been left behind in chili farming, despite the harsh weather in the area. Until last year, Pamela Chepkorir from Kasaka village was growing maize and onions in her two-acre farm. She says the price of onions went down as low as Sh10 a kilo due to an oversupply of onions in the local market. This is when she decided to stop growing onions and maize and try her hand at chili farming. “When I started planting onions, I would get about Sh80,000 from a quarter acre, but the price later declined to almost Sh25,000. This was my turning point and if I work hard, I know I can make a lot of money, since a kilo of dry pepper is selling at Sh200,” she says. Chepkorir says unlike onions, chili farming is labour-intensive and one only needs to weed and supply the crop with water using drip irrigation. “I do not need to spray chemicals or use any fertliser, I use manure to grow chili and there are few diseases. The only problem I’m having is that of birds, but I use scarecrows to keep them off,” says the mother of four. Giuseppe De Bac, FAO project manager in West Pokot, said the three-year project, Increasing Quality and Production of Added Value Crops in West Pokot, is a $2 million (Sh2 billion) partnership between FAO and the Italian Cooperative. He said FAO is providing technical assistance to enhance high production of chilli and also link the farmers to a ready market. The UN food agency is also supporting farmers in training on value addition to mangoes. He says chili is an ideal crop for this region because it is drought-resistant and the 8,000 litres and drip irrigation kit being provided to about 150 households through the project will help fight drought in the area. “A farmer can harvest at least two kilos of chili per year per plant. We are also promoting the growing of soyabeans, fruits such as water melon and paw paws. The Rift and Kerio Valleys are known for fruit farming due to the favourable weather,” he says. The project started in 2015 until the end of this year and is targeting 2,000 farmers directly but more farmers indirectly. He says at first, the farmers were not willing to embrace farming since traditionally, this is a community of pastoralists. “But through working with the county government, we have been able to convince them and many are seeing the benefits of farming,” Giuseppe says. The farmers are planting the African Bird Eye pepper variety, which is a perennial crop and can produce high yields for three to four years, after which the yields start reducing. The advantage, he says, is that a farmer gets to save water and keep the moisture in the soil, adding that they should not do sprinkle irrigation. Giuseppe says there is demand for chili, hence the reason they are linking farmers with buyers from Malindi. “Our biggest challenge is for farmers to produce chili that is of high quality for them to be in business,” he adds. TRAINED ON TRANSPLANTING Glenda Andiema from La Fattoria Limited says they are in an agreement with 130 farmers in the area. La Fattoria is the company that has signed the contract with chili farmers in West Pokot, with 50 per cent of them being women. “We give chili seeds to farmers and train them how to plant in the nurseries and transplant them in the farm. We also assure farmers of a ready market for their produce,” she says. The company has established a seed nursery in Sebit, and they have three buying centres in Sebet, Morpus and Ortum, where farmers will be required to take their chili harvest. She explains that once farmers have harvested their red pepper, they will bring them to the buying centres, where the company will dry the produce for about two days. After that, the dry chili is transported to Malindi, packaged and exported to the European market. “Once the pepper is dry, we pay farmers their dues, depending on the kilos they harvested. This will be our first month to buy from farmers and we are expecting to have a good harvest,” Andiema says. Mercy Nekesa, also from La Fattoria, says they are hoping to get into contract with more farmers so they can have enough supply of chili for export. “In future, we would want to have the farmers forming groups so they can sell their produce in bulk and enjoy more profits,” she adds. New pawpaw variety yields 100 fruits a year BY AGATHA NGOTHO / Farmers in West Pokot have embraced a new high-yielding pawpaw variety that can give a maximum of 100 fruits in a year. The Maradol pawpaw variety, which is originally from Cuba, was recently introduced by the Food Agricultural Organisation and has been taken up by the farmers. Over 3,000 pawpaw seedlings have been planted since last year. Esther Kilim, a farmer from Ortum, says she has cut down her indigenous pawpaw trees, which have been in her farm for many years until they could not produce anymore. She wants to replace it with the Maradol variety. “The indigenous variety we plant is tall and the fruits are few and small. This attribute makes it difficult for a child to climb high up in the tree to pick fruits, unlike the new variety, which is short and easy for a child to pick the fruits. I have seen from the demonstration farm how the new pawpaw variety produces many fruits and that is why I decided to plant then so I can sell and make more money,” she says. Giuseppe De Bac, FAO project manager in West Pokot, says he was impressed by the high production of the Maradol pawpaw fruit in the region. “The fertility of the soil and the heat are favourable for the pawpaw. A farmer only needs to water the plant and in about eight months from the time of planting, one can harvest about 50 fruits,” he says, adding that production of the variety starts declining after three years and should be replaced with a new seedling. It was first planted three years ago in a demonstration farm on trial basis, and since then, farmers from Ortum and Sebit have been cutting the indigenous pawpaw tree to plant the Maradol variety. The new variety is dwarf, high yielding, produces reddish fruits, which have a high content of Vitamin A that is good for children. He says the seeds can be recycled. After eating the fruit, the seeds can be dried and planted for six to seven times. FRUIT FARMING POPULARITY At Masol ward in West Pokot, most pastoralists are turning to horticulture and fruit farming. Ward administrator Aron Kibet says most residents are pastoralists and have relied on livestock for years. This, he said, is changing thanks to the intervention of development partners like FAO, who have introduced fruit farming. “The region has a favourable climate for cultivation of fruits. The soil is fertile for growing fruits such as pawpaw and with enough water, such fruits can produce more,” Kibet says. He says cattle rustling has reduced and now young people are more involved in farming. “They have realised they can use the money from farming to buy animals,” he says. Some of the common pawpaw varieties grown in Kenya, according to the Agriculture ministry, include the solo variety, which produces small, round sweet fruits with uniform size and shape. It is popular for both export and local market. Others include the mountain variety grown at high altitudes with small fruits only suitable for jam and preserves. There is also the sunrise variety that produces smooth, pear-shaped fruits of high quality, weighing 400 to 650 grams. The red royale is an improved breed that is also high yielding. And then there is the propagated papaya using tissue culture, which is disease-resistant, high yielding and easy to maintain and harvest since the trees are short.