MUSLIMS have vowed to shun the Islamic clerics who on Wednesday endorsed President Uhuru Kenyatta for reelection. They rebuked the sheikhs, led by a section of the Council of Imams and Preachers, for saying Uhuru had shown much love for Muslims. The Muslims, who are contemplating to stop praying behind the sheikhs, said the leaders were lying as under Jubilee they have suffered more, including rampant cases of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. During this year’s Eid Baraza at State House, Uhuru gifted a CIPK leader a car to help them campaign, now the faithful argue that the leaders have sold their souls to the devil and mortgaged the community for a few cents. === IT is said you cannot teach old dogs new tricks. Our police seem to regard the police reforms that started 10 years ago like “new tricks”. There is a public outcry from the manner Traffic police officers along Waiyaki Way are harassing and manhandling matatu drivers and touts in their weekly morning crackdown. An officer this week came under shocked condemnation by passengers after he stormed a matatu at a checkpoint, grabbed the tout by the belt and tugged him out for not wearing the PSV uniform. The cop frog-marched the tout to a waiting police vehicle as a Base Commander watched. The same happens at the Globe roundabout in the morning. The harassment has become a daily habit of extorting matatu operators who bribe the cops with thousands of shillings, denying the government revenue in the courts as well as abusing the rights of innocent Kenyans. === IS Mombasa Senator and Wiper governor candidate Hassan Omar serving two masters, NASA and Jubilee? This is what a NASA lawmaker demands Omar come out and pronounces himself on. The curious MP was heard saying Omar’s campaign sentiments in his bid to oust Governor Hassan Joho are not portraying NASA’s unity of purpose to defeat Jubilee on August 8. The agitated legislator also wants Omar to desist from his self-centred conduct of hunting for his own votes in the county and not telling his supporters to back NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka’s election. === It seems Uhuru handlers are not yet done with Kalonzo after the Wiper leader managed to consolidate his grassroots support a few weeks ago. Yesterday the handlers sponsored demonstrators in Raila’s Kisumu city to demand the opposition chief vies for two terms. They were in ODM T-shirts and carried ODM banners. They wanted to make Kalonzo’s supporters uncomfortable since they expect Baba to back him after his first term. The demonstrators were, however, dispersed and their materials destroyed before executing the assignment.