Former Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery will be buried on Saturday at his palatial home in Bissil. The burial committee visited the home on Monday evening and identified the gravesite. The team from Nairobi was led by National Administration secretary Arthur Osiya. The family was represented by spokesman Saitoti ole Maika. The committee said Nkaissery will be buried with his head facing Mt Kenya, because the Maasai community believes all their blessings have been drawn from there. Former Assistant Minister David Sankori explained that the Matapato, Kaputiei and all the other Maasai communities in Kajiado moved from Laikipia to the county, and were guided by the mountain. A beacon “Mt Kenya is in the north of Kajiado and all our people are buried with their heads facing north. There is a strong belief among our people that the mountain, which is in our north, played a role in guiding us to the south in Kajiado,” he said. His Seuri age-mates will play a major role at the burial after the church service. Sankori, who grew up and went to school with Nkaissery, described his former schoolmate at Olkejuado High as “intelligent and family loving”. Nkaissery died early Saturday morning at the Karen Hospital, Nairobi. He grew up as an ordinary Matapato boy near Bissil town and Maili 46, Iloodokilani ward, where he attended school. The young Nkaissery attended District Education Board classes at Bissil Primary School. When schools closed for holidays, he would walk to the Maili 46 home of Paramount Chief Mzee Maora. Humble young man Mzee Maora had a son who was a close friend of Nkaissery and the two were inseparable, Sankori said “Nkaissery was a humble boy who was depended upon by his age-mates to make decisions,” Sankori said. “Although the Maora family was from Iloodokilani, that did not stop Nkaissery, who is from Matapato, from living with the family.” After his KAPE, Nkaissery enrolled at Olkejuado High School, at that time a mixed school. Nkaissery dropped out of Kenyatta College, now Kenyatta University, and joined the army in 1973, where he rose through the ranks to become a general. He joined politics in 2002. Nkaissery, a livestock farmer, used to host many friends at his Bissil home where they would wine and dine on roast meat from his farm. His widow Helen managed hybrid livestock for milk production with the support of her husband.   