Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki has defended the National Youth Service programme against claims by opposition politicians it is a Jubilee Party campaign strategy. “They say the timing raises eyebrows, especially given that the election is around the corner. Government functions don’t grind to a halt during polls,” she said. “Anyone who has eyes and ears can attest the Jubilee government has performed impressively and it means well for this nation.” Kariuki spoke on Monday in Chuluni, Kitui East, when she launched the programme in the constituency. She said Sh2.7 million and Sh1.85 million for youth and women has been set aside for the constituency. Kariuki said the initiative hired 500 youths to be engaged daily for 120 days. She asked the youth to shun negative rhetoric spewed by politicians and instead seek empowerment funds to start businesses. Kariuki said the programme is part of the numerous life-changing projects implemented by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration to uplift lives. She urged Kitui residents to support Uhuru’s reelection. Kariuki said the Jubilee administration deserves a second term to conclude its development agenda. Mid last month, Kariuki took a swipe at the opposition for its relentless attacks on the government over youth projects. She said the leaders have been propagating “empty rhetoric and spreading propaganda” the programme has not assisted the youth and women. Kariuki said her ministry has rolled out the programme in all regions, not just in Jubilee strongholds as NASA claims. She said the Jubilee administration serves all Kenyans, regardless of whether they voted for it or not. Kariuki said she does not understand why opposition leaders criticise the programme, “yet they were in the Grand Coalition government and failed in the Kazi Kwa Vijana programme”. “That programme only benefitted old men, while the young people, who were working, walked home empty-handed. They are unhappy with the programme and have resorted to propaganda to mislead Kenyans,” she said.