Impala’s Leo Seje and Kabras lock George Nyambua will make their debuts for the Kenya Simbas in tomorrow’s Africa Gold Cup match against Tunisia. Nyambua, who had impressive season with Kabras, leading them to the Kenya Cup final, will partner skipper Wilson K’Opondo at second row. K’Opondo makes a welcome return after suffering a rib cage injury in Test match against Germany in May. Seje replaces Patrick Agunda at centre as the technical bench looks at correcting the glaring mistakes especially in defence which were evident in the 33-33 draw with Uganda a fortnight ago. There are four changes off the bench with Oscar Simiyu, Martin Owila, Dennis Muhanji and Lyle Asiligwa all included in the match day 23-man squad for the clash against the North Africans. Oliver Mangeni is bereaved and misses the game altogether alongside Simon Muniafu, who misses the encounter through a neck injury. Patrice Agunda, James Kubasu and Brad Owako are all rested. Announcing the team yesterday, team manager Wangila Simiyu, said they will be looking at playing a high tempo game to tire the big Tunisians. “We want to play a very fast pace and expansive game that will tire our opponents and if we can execute it well in attack, we should be in a good position to win the game,” he added. Simiyu said the defensive mistakes which were there against Uganda have been worked on. “Yes we gave away three soft tries because of missed tackles and we can’t repeat the mistakes against Tunisia. You will see an improvement in that regard,” added Simiyu. He said the Tunisians with their big pack will attempt to slow down the game in a bid to contain them. “Tunisia have lost two games so they are coming for a win and we can’t underrate them,” added Simiyu. Vice captain Darwin Mukidza has asked fans to support the side despite the indifferent start to the campaign. Kenya lost to Germany 30-29, beat Uganda 23-18 in Kampala and drew with them in Nairobi. “The results have been patchy but we expect an all round performance on Saturday and nothing short of a win,” added Mukidza. Tunisia jetted into the country yesterday morning and were due to have their training session at the RFUEA ground in the evening. Kenya beat Tunisia 46-15 two years ago at the same venue.