Returnee Kakamega&rsquo;s &lsquo;Green Commandos&rsquo; humiliated North Eastern&rsquo;s Boystown 13-0 as the national secondary school Term 2B games got underway yesterday at the Moi Complex Primary School in Nyeri, yesterday.Henry Juma top-scored for Kakamega with five goals while Arnold Sichenje netted thrice. James Mazembe scored twice, with Alphas Chris, Marvin Odhiambo and Yusuf Mainge adding a goal each.The side, coached by Brenden Nwinamo, opened the scores barely 10 minutes into the match through James Mazembe. He was on the mark again to make it 2-0 three minutes later. The Kakamega outfit muzzled their opponents in all areas and scored goals at regular intervals. Henry Juma capitalised on the confusion in the Boystown defence to slot home the third goal. Kakamega were awarded a penalty in the 40th minute with Alpha Chris scoring before Juma completed a brace to go to the break with a 5-0 lead.Odhiambo made it six in the 46th minute before Sichenje added his name on the score sheet with two quick goals. Juma completed his hat trick with 15 minutes to the end of the match with Mainge adding another in the 80th minute. Sichenje then cored his third goal as Juma brought his goal tally to four.In an interview Kakamega coach Nwinamo lauded his players, saying their performance was a reflection of their good preparations.&ldquo;I have disciplined players both off and on the pitch and the results are the basically a result of the hard work. We still have Tetu and Kathungi to play and hope to win the matches to finish top of Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;,&rdquo; said the tactician. He added: &ldquo;Most of the players are attached to clubs which feature in different league cadres and the experience and exposure are all coming together for good. We want to qualify for the semis and see what happens from there.&rdquo;His opposite number Victor Mugendi conceded defeat but defended his team as work in progress. In boys volleyball, champions Malava launched their title defence on high with a 3-1( 25-15, 26-24, 28-30, 25-21) win against Waa from Coast in pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; match at the Nyeri Complex grounds.Another match in the same pool saw Nairobi region sensational Hospital Hill come from a set down to see off Kangundo from Eastern 3-1 ( 28-30, 25-15, 23-19, 25-23). In girls&rsquo; category, former champions Kwanthanze beat Lugulu 3-0 (25-16, 25-22 25-17) in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; before champions Soweto, who are drawn in Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; won 3-0 (25-9, 25-15,25-13) against St John&rsquo;s Kaloleni from Coast.