Many thought presidential debates were a great opportunity for the candidates and their running mates to explain their manifestos to Kenyans. It was also a rare chance for the electorate, through media, to probe and get to know their leaders better than campaign rallies ever allowed them to. This opportunity was especially useful to the lesser-known presidential candidates, who get absolutely no coverage by the media, very much to the loss of all Kenyans whose choice of candidates is greatly limited through the denial of coverage. When media only cover two presidential candidates at the exclusion of six others, they make our multiparty democracy the first casualty of media restriction, closely followed by the people. While media explain covering candidates whose likelihood of winning is slim is a waste of space and time, they reduce the people’s choice and possibly, deny them better leadership. Giving two candidates a higher profile in debate is discriminatory and harmful to democracy and to the people because it denies the country a chance to be led by better leaders, who are denied exposure by media. And this compares to the harm sport management would do if new athletes were to be denied a chance to compete with previous gold medallists merely because they have not reached the top before. Yet it is not once or twice that we have seen new athletes beat older ones when they are given an equal chance to compete. All presidential candidates should have been offered an equal and same debate platform to compete. Why then did the two sets of the better and lesser-known presidential candidates boycott the running mates’ debate? Both the lesser and the better-known presidential candidates seem to have no faith in the organisers of the debate, thinking they have already rigged the debate against them, just like most Kenyans justifiably think our entire system is rigged against them through institutional negative ethnicity and corruption. Bigger boys also missed the debate because they think they can browbeat the debate organisers into organising the debate to suit their political interests. After all, Jubilee Party and the government are used to armtwisting everyone, and getting away with it. In any case, the debate is likely to harm Jubilee more than anybody else through exposure of their failures that can easily reduce their appeal to the people. NASA had every reason to attend the presidential debate as a national platform to expose the failures of Jubilee, and explain their manifesto and vision to the people. And while Jubilee has reason to fear exposure of its weaknesses by the opposition, NASA has absolutely nothing to fear because they have not been in government to make mistakes. They only need to explain to the people how they expect to move them from the desert to Canaan by solving the country’s most intractable problems – bad leadership, bad system, corruption, negative ethnicity, unemployment, poverty, rising prices of basic commodities such as food and workers’ strikes. Though all presidential candidates say they want to give the people accountable and servant leadership, one does not understand how the same candidates can refuse to go to the people when they are called upon to do so. Indeed, only dictators don’t acknowledge the power and the right of the people to summon them to a debate ahead of election, when the people need certain explanations from the leaders. Only dictators refuse to go to a debate, when media invite them on behalf of the people. Under a tyranny, the people cannot summon dictators to a debate. It will long have been censored and banned. In a dictatorship, no presidential debates are possible. They will have been banned together with elections, which are not possible under one-party rule. And although debates are allowed in a multiparty democracy, they can be sabotaged when presidential or other candidates refuse to attend such debates, whose consequences are the same as those of banning in a one party dictatorship. However, the biggest reason of failing to attend the presidential debates is the feelings among candidates that are unnecessary since ethnic support of communities is not sought through media organised forums but through ethnic mobilisation. So, as long as debates are not absolutely necessary for ethnic mobilisation, the need for them is not absolute either. This is why presidential candidates can be ignored with absolute impunity.