For the team managing Nairobi’s water, the stakes have never been so high. Kenya’s capital has been water-rationed since January 1, and it is not impossible that it might run dry by September. Rain is not expected until October and cannot be counted on. The previous two seasons were dismal. For residents of the city of 3.3 million, what might happen is so beyond their control that most bat the thought away and soldier on, storing water in jerry cans when taps flow. But for the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC), it is a spectre that haunts them. On July 14, Nairobi City County declared a cholera outbreak, citing among the causes “irregular supply of potable water”. How bad might this get? “At the end of every rainy season I have excess water, but this year ‘No’. We’re only 37 per cent full,” says Job Kihamba, who manages Ndakaini, the storage dam that traps three rivers that flow down from the Abedare Range and releases the water in the dry season. The Ndakaini–Ng’ethu system accounts for 85 per cent of Nairobi’s water. Every day the engineer measures what comes in, what leaves and the safety of the dam wall. It has been a rocky 12 months. The rains in October-December last year delivered just 268mm, compared to about 700mm expected from rainfall patterns in recent years. Then in 2017, the March-May rains were late. When I visited Ndakaini with colleagues from the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) on April 25, the reservoir was just 20 per cent full, an unprecedented low. We blinked in the sun, gazed at the exposed mud, and, looking towards the city, thought: “Who down there knows?” Finally, the rains came on May 1 but delivered just 440mm of the 1,000mm expected. Today the Chania and Sasumua, two of the rivers that supply the city, resemble streams more than rivers. The water available to the city has plummeted. Nairobi’s water company is distributing 400,000 cubic metres a day, 150,000 less than it used to and 350,000 less than the city needs; 60 per cent of the population lacks reliable water. Of 78 public boreholes, only 48 are working. “Nairobi used to be a swamp but is no longer behaving like one. Our underground rivers have dried up,” says engineer Lucy Macharia, environment and compliance manager of the NCWSC. Swamps are the recharge areas, but they have been built upon. The county is attempting to address this but is “overwhelmed by urbanisation and the need for housing”.  POWERFUL SOLUTIONS If water is scarce, however, she and other experts have no shortage of powerful solutions. Among them are things that can be done in the city, such as rainwater harvesting from buildings and “deliberate efforts to cause groundwater recharge”. The latter would include storm water management and pumping the 115,000 cubic metres of waste water that the company treats daily back into the ground for eventual reuse. But the most important route, they all say, is to care for the land. “The catchment is my ‘next God’,” Kihamba says. “Without it, I’m done.” The Upper Tana catchment spans 970,000ha and must also supply water to millions of rural residents within it and millions more along the Tana river, as it wends its way down to the Indian Ocean. It consists of small towns, tea estates and an estimated 300,000 small farms, many of which supply food to the city. “What we are seeing here is a broken loop between how a city reconciles its thirst for water and its hunger for food,” observes Spanish resilience expert Arturo Getz Escudero. “Cities can reward farmers for behaviours such as preventing erosion.” There are signs that is already happening. Fred Kihara runs the Nairobi Water Fund, a partnership between The Nature Conservancy, the government, large water users such as NCWSC, Kenya Electricity Generating Company, Coca-Cola and East Africa Breweries, donor International Fund for Agriculture, NGOs such as the Green Belt Movement, researchers, and others. Modelled on Latin American schemes, it provides farmers with training, resources and equipment to preserve river health, “conserve water and reap the benefits of higher crop yields and more stable farms”. “There’s no contract or cash transfer,” Kihara says. “In five years, with 15,000 farmers, we have increased the flow to Nairobi by 27,000 cubic metres a day. We don’t compel, we socially persuade. Most of it is terracing, sediment trapping, planting 200,000 trees a season. The deal is you can keep the soil on your land with this good quality Napier grass that we supply you. We aim for three metres of permanent vegetation on river banks. What you want is to reduce the pace of the water. The main aim is get the rivers clean and improve flow.”  CLIMATE CHANGE But the multiplicity of challenging trends — climate change (which, besides causing droughts, intensifies floods), the needs of a booming city, a growing rural populace, and hundreds of thousands of still-unreached farmers — means the crisis is still not being addressed in its full gravity. “People are farming without soil and water conservation structures. Restoration of lands outside forest areas is a must,” says Oscar Simanto of the Kenya Forest Service. “We must restore forest cover over the main lower catchment area,” says director of Mpala Research Centre, ecologist Dino Martins. “This is the more moist forest zone that has been destroyed. It is shocking that any agriculture should be taking place on the steep slopes around the dam at all, to be frank. The only way to secure the water supply for the people of Nairobi — soon to be 20 million — is through making some strong decisions that bring back forest cover around the entire dam. Other cities like Boston have done this successfully and now have enough water for their people and industries.” “It needs more than we are doing,” says engineer Njambi. “It is time for best practices. But the land is mostly private, and private land is the most difficult. Farmers look at economic benefits. If it is eucalyptus, they’ll do that. If it is beans, they’ll do that. When it rains, the water gushes down, causing damage. Eucalyptus reduces water speed a little, but it does not seep in because of the leaves. We can’t dictate to farmers what to do. But we need ways to put water into the ground.” Besides small farmers, estates must step up, too. Tea is promoted as a perennial that benefits farmers and keeps the ground covered. “But under the tea, the soil is panned,” Njambi says. Dr Ravi Prabhu, deputy director general of ICRAF, says: “This can be managed by growing legumes or building contour strips.” ICRAF is measuring the relationship between organic matter in the soil and the extent that water infiltrates into the ground in the valleys and hills. It has researched financial incentives to nudge sustainable land management. With the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, it found that “40 per cent of water users in the city of Nairobi are willing to pay an incremental $1.25 (Sh125 ) over their tariffs for watershed management.” This could go to pay farmers for the “environmental services” they generate like increased water supplies.  CAPITAL LOAN “Green loans” and training help, too. Peter Karanja, 70, farms near Sasumua and received a working capital loan from climate smart credit company, F3Life, the terms of which held him to conserve soil and water. He used it to buy a cow. Galvanised by the loan and trained by ICRAF to plant trees and Napier grass to prevent erosion, but also create more revenue streams on his farm, Karanja swung into action to restore its ecological health, earn more and do right by the watershed. Fed on the grass, the cow has produced offspring and piles of manure. Deep and rich behind bunds, little soil now erode from his land. Karanja’s income has grown. But he needs better markets for his pears and plums. “It’s finding the high-value tree species that have the hydrological properties you want,” says ICRAF’s Fergus Sinclair. Ellis Jones and Obadiah Ngigi, co-founders of F3Life, which reached 75 farmers in the Nairobi catchment and plans to scale up to thousands more, say: “We are really excited about the potential for eco-credit to drive the restoration of water catchments on a sustainable financial basis.” Cities are greedy gulpers of water. Research by Rob McDonald at The Nature Conservancy found that urban areas only cover 2-4 per cent of the earth’s land surface, but that the area upstream of their water sources, their water footprint, covers an astounding 41 per cent of the earth’s surface. Nairobi’s story is echoed in water-stressed cities around the world. Nairobi abounds with the energy of entrepreneurs, from the jua kali (“hot sun”) workers, to the digital global trendsetters in their air-conditioned offices. But the lack of water is everyone’s crisis. It won’t be easy to replenish and sustain this essential resource. ICRAF’s Dr Prabhu is cautiously optimistic, however, saying that if the people of Kenya pull together, the issue can be solved. “There is growing political will, and investments have started to flow. What is required is social capital from watershed to water user, and this situation could be turned around.”  A shorter version of this article appeared in The Guardian on July 18. Cathy Watson is the chief of programme development at the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF)