Mombasa governor candidate Hassan Omar has blamed Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s campaign team for attacking his campaign secretariat and a vehicle. The incident happened on Friday at 3am. Two youths in a saloon car drove past the Renaissance Centre, where the Hassan Omar Campaign Secretariat is located. They parked metres away and threw objects into the compound. Police said one of the objects appeared to be a petrol bomb, which didn’t explode. The youths also vandalised the truck Omar will use in the ‘Road To Victory Caravan’. This comes a day after the senator launched his 30-day caravan to tour, every part of the county. At the launch on Thursday, Omar had hit out at Joho, who on Monday had labelled him and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti “Jubilee brokers” sent by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to scuttle the NASA team. Omar labelled Joho a “wannabe reformist” with no history of fighting for human rights. Mombasa county director of communication Richard Chacha denied the Joho campaign team was involved in the destruction. He said it was expected Omar would accuse Joho of being behind the incident so he could tarnish the governor’s name. “How can he not say it is Joho if he wants to say it to the media?” Chacha asked. He said he would issue a statement later. Mombasa CID boss Jacob Kanake said police are investigating.  WELL-KNOWN THUGS “I have my suspicions who they are. These are people who are accustomed to intimidating people in this county, branding themselves the alpha hooligans of Mombasa,” Omar said.He spoke at the Renaissance Centre. Omar has accused Joho of trying to intimidate his opponents into submission with various tactics, including preventing them from erecting billboards. Joho denies he is blocking his opponents from erecting billboards. “They think they know no borders, they know no law, they can do anything they so please,” Omar said on Thursday. He said the incident borders on extreme hooliganism . The senator said the same “alpha hooligans” trailed his personal assistant Hezron Odack on Thursday evening until around 1am when he dropped the senator home. They were in a saloon car with no plate, he said. “He even had to look for an alternative place to spend the night. He thought there were some people who wanted to harm him,” Omar said.  