President Uhuru Kenyatta has waived up to Sh1.5 billion in loans owed to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) by farmers in Kajiado, Narok and Baringo counties. In a statement on Monday, State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said the move is part of a broader agenda by the government to ease financial pressure on farmers across the country. "The loans were taken to support wheat, sorghum and livestock farming but bad weather led to heavy farm losses," Esipisu said. AFC had continued to hold onto land title deeds taken as collateral for the loans. Read: State will waive Kajiado livestock farmers' AFC debts, Uhuru says, bashes NASA Esipisu said the President directed Treasury and AFC to ensure the titles are handed back to the farmers to allow them to take other investment decisions. "Samburu was also affected by the AFC distress and the president is likely to announce similar relief when he visits the county in the coming days," Esipisu added. The waiver is the latest in unprecedented relief the President has ordered over the last 3 months for distressed farmers as part of his agenda to bolster agriculture. Farmers belonging to the Meru Dairy Union had their loans amounting to Sh 475 million waived. Also read: Meru Dairy Union thanks Uhuru for waiving Sh479 million debt Last month, the president also asked the Treasury to advance Sh1.1 billion to Mumias, Chemelil and Nzoia sugar factories to pay farmers arrears. The president also waived a debt of Sh 478 million for Coffee farmers’ SACCOs in a bid to revamp the coffee sector. Another Sh 1.7 billion was waived on STABEX funds through the Cooperative Bank of Kenya in the coffee growing zones of Central and Eastern Kenya and Kisii. Some Sh25 million owed to the AFC Bunyala Fishermen Cooperative Society was also waived by the head of state. Last month, the President also facilitated the payment of wage arrears dating back 10 years to 25,000 Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) workers amounting to Sh 250 million.