Moses Kuria has rubbished claims that he incited goons to ambush NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga's entourage in Thika on Thursday.Raila cut short his campaigns in Thika town, Kiambu county, after rowdy youths stoned his motorcade. Police fired teargas canisters to disperse the violent youths who accosted the Opposition chief as he was addressing residents atop his car.Read more: Riotous youths stone Raila's motorcade in ThikaKuria, who is Gatundu South MP, distanced himself from the violence saying on Friday that he was in the Coast region when the incident occurred.&ldquo;I did not plan the Thika violence on Raila...I was in the Coast region at the time, busy snatching votes from Raila. I have convinced a lot of people in this region and they are now supporting Jubilee. The Coast region is now Jubilee," he said.The legislator noted the Jubilee team has been campaigning peacefully and that Raila should follow their example and stop employing double standards in the fight against political violence.&ldquo;Raila has been speaking about the Kiambu incident only. His Kisumu supporters stoned President Uhuru Kenyatta but he is not speaking about it. He should tell his supporters to stop violence,&rdquo; he said in Voi during Jubilee's 'Mbele Iko Sawa' campaigns.More on this: Jubilee official thanks Kiambu for welcoming Raila, invites Uhuru to NyanzaKuria told Raila he is free to seek votes in any part of Kenya including Kiambu.&ldquo;Raila is welcome to seek votes in any place in Kiambu. He is free to even seek votes from my cattle boma...no one will attack him. Likewise, he should tell his supporters to stop attacking Jubilee leaders."Kuria further told the ODM leader to forget about a coalition government after this year&rsquo;s general elections.&ldquo;Whoever will win the elections will be sworn in and work will continue. Raila should forget about a coalition government. If they try violence this time round, the government will deal with them decisively. They should know Uhuru is not [former president Mwai] Kibaki."The President accused the Opposition of derailing the August 8 polls to push for a transitional government.Read: Raila creating IEBC tender row to push for 'nusu mkate' government - UhuruThe legislator urged Voi residents to live peacefully with other communities and conduct campaigns in the same manner.He was with Amos Kimunya, Taita Taveta women representative Joyce Lay, Taita Taveta Jubilee women MP aspirant Lydia Haika and MCA aspirants.Lay told the people to vote for the Jubilee government.&ldquo;Jubilee has done a lot for us including tracking Voi-Taveta and Mwatate-Wundanyi roads. The Mzima 2 water project will be launched in a month&rsquo;s time and Voi-Sagalla road and Voi-Kasighau roads will be tarmacked soon. [There are also many] other projects in the health sector,&rdquo; she said.