Men suffering from fistula are shying away from seeking treatment, with most opting to visit hospitals late in the evening.Dr Kennedy Ondede says fistula is highly stigmatising and the power to reject, banish and isolate such patients all too commonly prevails. Ondede is a consultant surgeon at the Kenyatta National Hospital in the field of gastroenterology and liver transplant.&ldquo;These patients will many times present with leaking of purulent material or stool or watery stuff that&rsquo;s smelly onto their inner clothes,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;This leads to social stigma, cases of divorce or abandonment, enormous shame and loss of jobs. Unfortunately there is no drug to cure this. It requires surgical intervention.&rdquo;Ondede said some of the patients who visit him at the hospital complain of attracting flies due to the bad odour they emit. Flies tend to be attracted to them due to faeces, food and rotting flesh, which radiate a sense of warmth and nourishment.James Claude (not his real name), 47, was diagnosed with fistula late last year. We agreed to meet at the institution after he indicated it would be more convenient for him. As I approach the hospital&rsquo;s administration block, I see a fazed male in a long beige coat struggling to pick my face. James also appears to have difficulty in walking. I wave at him so he can see who he is supposed to meet.He smiles and walks towards me. We shake hands and he requests that we sit down. We start off and the father of three tells me his pants are already soiled with pus.Although he does not have a problem getting a full erection, James says he has been in constant high doses of painkillers due to the pain he experiences.James, a furniture dealer at Gikomba market, suffers from rectocutaneous fistula. His is an abnormal communication between the rectum and the peri-rectal skin, maybe as a result of trauma, pelvic fracture, rectal foreign body, para-rectal abscess or surgery. Faecal material may be discharged through the skin or wound.He is set to see a doctor today. The last time he was treated at Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, the condition did not heal, causing further complications. His report from the doctor read that &ldquo;there is an approximately 3cm-long fistula with an opening at the anal mucosa opening onto the right perineal skin&rdquo;.James says even though his wife has been supportive all through, the condition has seriously affected his livelihood. His mobility, he says, is constrained, and most nights he lacks sleep and lays awake until the crack of dawn.&ldquo;As we speak right now, my inner pants are already soiled with pus. I can feel the wetness and it makes me feel very uncomfortable. I cannot place a bandage to ease the pus from coming out because I will have worse difficulties in moving around. There is nothing I can do for now, except wait for treatment and pray to God that I be healed of this disease,&rdquo; he says.HOW IT OCCURS Dr Ondede says fistula is simply a connection or tract; an opening between a hollow organ and the outside (the skin). Take for instance the hollow organ in this case to be the rectum and the anal canal distally and the skin on the outside.&ldquo;Whenever a patient develops a complication that will lead to an abnormal communication between the rectum and the surrounding skin (such that you end up with two openings the normal anal opening and the abnormal opening of the skin), that is known as a fistula,&rdquo; he said.James further informs me that whenever he feels like farting but decides to hold it, the same air comes out through the 3cm opening.&ldquo;That really scares me. I am agonised. I have never seen such a condition. I always ask myself what is this I am suffering from,&rdquo; he says.Dr Ondede says the sphincter is the one that helps hold the urge to pass gas in public settings. It also acts as a sensor. When a sphincter is damaged, a patient can loose the ability to control stool.&ldquo;Between the outside and the inside of the rectum, there is what is called a sphincter, which is like a valve that controls stool and gas. One can sense if what is going to be passed out is either solid stool or diarrhoea. With solid stool, you can wait, but with diarrhoea, you can&rsquo;t. When these openings open on the inside not the outside below the sphincter, they are known as simple cutaneous fistulas,&rdquo; the doctor said.Fistulas, he added, are divided into different categories, which helps in the management of patients. They can be simple if made up of only one route of communication between in the inside of the rectum and the skin. However, when there are multiple openings unto the surface of the skin, this is known as a complex fistula. More often than not, complex fistulas result from issues other than simple infection, such as diseases surrounding the anal canal. It can lead to openings both inside and outside of the anal opening, with multiple tracks coming down.Another cause for complex fistulas is abscess, which is a collection of pus. One can have an abscess adjacent to the rectum and when it opens out to the outside, you might find it has opened several channels outside that are also connected to the interior. Foreign bodies are also causative factors in complex fistulas. Injuries from grenades, gunshots, metals or even a stick as a result of a fall more often than not lead to a complex fistula. This becomes hard to manage because now you are dealing with multiple openings.GENDER DIVIDEDr Ondede said there is no clear cut that certain types of fistulas are more common in men than women. The simple and complex types of fistulas are in both sexes, leave alone birth fistulas, which are in women.He added, though, that men tend to have a larger share, reason being men get infections around the anal region, diarrhoea, haemorrhoids and fissures. They also sit on their problems much longer than women, so they complicate and end up in such a situation.Ondede, who began practising as a surgeon back in 2009, has handled at least 200 cases of fistula in male patients. He said cases of men with fistula are not being highlighted because the girl child has been given much more attention. Moreover, he said, many men are not willing to speak out. He urged them to not be afraid and come out and seek treatment before the situation worsens.In the past three weeks, Kenyatta Hospital has been carrying out a free fistula camp, mainly for women. The free fistula camp is part of a three-year Sh114 million grant towards various interventions for women living with obstetric fistula. Companies involved include Safaricom Foundation, Flying Doctors Society of Africa and Freedom from Fistula Foundation-Kenya.As the camp came to a close on Friday last week, more than 400 women were attended to, with 91 surgeries performed.Safaricom Foundation chairman Joseph Ogutu said part of the funding will go towards training 20 specialists, 20 anaesthetists and 40 nurses on fistula management, while enhancing their capacity to handle the condition in seven hospitals. The free fistula camps will also be replicated across various counties as 119 are admitted in KNH awaiting surgeries.TREATMENT CAMPAIGNJames was among the men who rushed to the Kenyatta National Hospital on June 16, when he heard there will be a Sh12 million fistula campaign. To his surprise, he was informed that the campaign had been set aside for women, and some 200 women living with Obstetric Fistula would benefit from the free fistula surgeries.&ldquo;I was saddened as I had already set in my mind that I would benefit from the free fistula camp. I simply urge the government and hospital institutions to also provide the same for men suffering from this condition. Some of us are not afraid of coming out,&rdquo; he said.The World Health Organisation has termed fistula &ldquo;the single most dramatic aftermath of neglected childbirth&rdquo;, estimating that more than 2 million women live with fistula worldwide.The common causes are obstructed labour, sexual violence, early marriage and childbirth, female genital mutilation, infections, insertion of foreign objects into the private parts and lack of access to skilled maternity care.In Kenya, there are an estimated 3,000 new cases of fistula each year. Only 7.5 per cent of these access the necessary medical care for the condition. This leads to a high backlogue of fistula cases.A 47-year-old refugee woman from Burundi was among the patients who received treatment and underwent re-constructive surgery at KNH. The mother of six was dragged, raped and foreign objects inserted inside her vagina in her war-torn country back in 2014.Hope (not her real name) is one of the many Burundian refugees who have sought refuge in Kenya, when protests against President Pierre Nkurunziza&rsquo;s bid for a third term were violently repressed by pro-government forces. The Burundian civil war was an armed conflict lasting from 1993 to 2006.When she was dragged, she was with her husband, who was stabbed in the stomach but managed to survive.This is the second time the woman will be undergoing surgery after the first one failed.Hope appears devastated and bitter with what happened to her. She has been wearing pampers for the past three years.&ldquo;I am constantly leaking urine as my organs down there have raptured. I have to wear pampers every day, which costs me a lot of money. I&rsquo;m pained by what I have to go through as it has changed my lifestyle completely. There are bad people out there. But I chose to forgive them,&rdquo; she said.Hope uses five pampers daily. Her children, she says, have also been affected by what she has to endure daily.However, we have difficulties in communicating due to language barrier. Her Kiswahili and English is a bit off, but she is fluent in French.Hope called on well-wishers and the government to provide her with pampers or ensure that women going through the same problem can have access to pampers at an affordable rate, or in some instances free of charge.The cost of a simple one-off fistula surgery is Sh20,000. However, if it&rsquo;s complex and repeated surgeries are needed due to scarring and other complications, a lot more would be required.Dr Ondede noted that caution must be taken when operating not to damage the fistula. If one cuts through the sphincter, the patient will lose ability to control stool.Fistula, he said, is not a woman-only condition. It is in both men and women, only that the common fistulas (vesicovaginal fistulas, VVF) occur in women and are birth-related.