Everton left back Leighton Baines believes today&rsquo;s friendly against 15-time Kenya Premier League champions Gor Mahia is a perfect build up ahead of the 2017/2018 English Premier League.Speaking on arrival in Dar-es-salaam, Tanzania yesterday, Baines said the match will help the team to gel ahead of season set for next month. But while the Blues are using the match as a build-up ahead of the EPL season, their Kenyan opponents will be seeking to give a good account of themselves at the National Stadium after exiting the GOtv Shield in the round of 32 over the weekend.Gor Mahia booked a date with the England side after beating arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the final of the SportPesa Super Cup final staged at the same venue last month.Baines said the team has only trained for a week and the friendly duel wouldn&rsquo;t have come at a better time.&ldquo;It is a very warm welcome here and it is very interesting for us. We don&rsquo;t see this kind of reception at home and we are excited to be here,&rdquo; said the left back.He added: &ldquo;We haven&rsquo;t watched our opponents play. We have a training session later today (yesterday) and it will be all about fitness because we are only one week old in training and so it will be a good exercise for us and hopefully fans will come out and enjoy.&rdquo;&ldquo;This is a perfect opportunity to get started ahead of the season. We have new players and we haven&rsquo;t trained together and this will be a good time to get some playing time and gel. Hopefully, the fans can come down to watch the match. We look forward to a good match.&rdquo;Wayne Rooney is among the 25-member squad under Ronald Koeman, who landed in Tanzania yesterday morning together with fellow new arrivals Michael Keane and Davy Klassan. Gor head into today&rsquo;s match at the back-drop of being ousted from the GOtv Shield last weekend after succumbing to a 5-6 defeat to Bandari. While Gor fans will happy to see how their charges fare against the English Premier League side, their eyes will no doubt be on the new coach Kerr Dylan as he begins his journey with the Green Army.Gor new tactician is keen to give each player in a bid to gauge every individual&rsquo;s capability. &ldquo;I just came in the other day and I am going to consult with the technical bench as far as the fielding of the team is concerned,. However, we are going to give opportunity to players to showcase their talent,&rdquo; noted Dylan.