President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are ignorant and hypocritical to criticise NASA’s plan to amend the Constitution, Vihiga Senator George Khaniri has said. He accused Jubilee of deliberately distorting facts about a referendum to hoodwink Kenyans into supporting their reelection. Khaniri spoke on Sunday during a rally at Emakakha market, Emuhaya constituency. He said constitutional amendments are essential, since Jubilee has failed to initiate any needed changes, seven years after the 2010 Constitution was enacted and flaws identified. “It is hypocritical for Uhuru and Ruto — who opposed enactment of the Constitution on the basis of it being flawed — to do nothing to correct the gaps and criticise attempts by the opposition to address the issues. Jubilee is a government founded on lies and the two think lies can keep them in power,” the senator said While addressing a rally in Kiritiri on Thursday, the President said the constitutional amendments that NASA wants carried — in part to create state positions for its principals — will cost Sh20 billion. Uhuru said, “Do Kenyans have Sh20 billion for another referendum? Isn’t it better to use the cash on projects to help youth get employment?” He said the amount is too huge to be used to create offices for “only three people to lead the country”. But Khaniri defended the planned constitutional amendments, saying a referendum to fix various flaws in the supreme law was overdue. “The plebiscite we plan is not for creating positions for people, but a bold move to fix sticky issues identified in the Constitution in the seven years it has been in use,” he said. Khaniri said Kenyans would rather incur expenses to resolve identified problems in law, than to have the money stolen. “What is Sh20 billion compared to hundreds of billions Jubilee has misused without benefitting Kenyans?” he asked. Khaniri said NASA plans to accommodate its principals by reorganising the government structures, as provided for by law. Under the power-sharing arrangement, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is to be Premier CS, equivalent of Prime Minister. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and CCM’s Isaac Rutto will deputise him. Khaniri said the opposition will not accept rigged presidential results. He said the duo should live up to their promise of a free election and respect the will of Kenyans.