The government has requested China to provide fresh financial support for the expansion of two key roads that were built three years ago to ease traffic congestion in Nairobi. Transport CS James Macharia, currently accompanying the President in China for a major infrastructure conference dubbed Belt and Road Forum, told journalists on the sidelines that there is urgent need to expand the Eastern and Northern Bypasses. The plan, he said, is to convert the two roads to dual highways because the traffic has grown tremendously since they were opened. &ldquo;If you look at our situation today, we have more vehicles than we should have,&rdquo; Macharia said. The Northern Bypass runs from Ruaka to Ruiru, while the Eastern one runs from Mombasa Road through Cabanas, Pipeline, Njiru and Thika Road onwards. The Southern Bypass, is from Kikuyu to Mombasa Road, through Ngong Road The new initiative will be part of the wider plan to decongest Nairobi. Macharia also announced that the government will fast-track a major infrastructure development programme aimed at decongesting Nairobi in the next two years. Apart from starting the construction of a new light rail system, the government plans to develop a new road on top of Mombasa road to Kangemi, and will also build the new Western Bypass from Ruiru to the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. While in China seeking fresh funding commitments for the new projects, Macharia said that the government already has cash for most of the projects it is undertaking.&ldquo;These projects are at the tail end of planning and financing sourcing. Once the paperwork is completed, you will see massive construction work across the city that will dramatically change the face of the city,&rdquo; Macharia said in an interview. The CS said construction work on the light rail will start within six months, with a Chinese company building a new line from Syiokimau to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The next big project will be the construction of the new road from JKIA, on top of Mombasa road to James Gichuru. According to Macharia, the first phase of this project has already begun from Rironi to James Gichuru where the contractor is already on site. Phase two which will cover James Gichuru and Ole Sereni, will start early next year while the final phase, from Ole Sereni to JKIA will start around June next year. With the expansion and dualing of Outering road almost complete, the CS announced that the government was now looking for money to dual the Northern and Eastern Bypasses which have heavy traffic.