Lamu, Tana River and Kilifi counties have been identified as hotspots for potential violence ahead of the General Election.Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa yesterday said the government is aware of plans by influential people at the Coast to use youths to cause violence.The government has, however, appointed an NGO, the Kenya Community Support Centre, to spearhead a strategy to counter potential violence by citing early warning signs.Marwa said the new strategy will prevent conflict. He asked the media and community-based organisations to be vigilant on the warning signs. &ldquo;We are now dealing with early warning signs. We are not dealing with conflict,&rdquo; Marwa said on Saturday.&ldquo;Anybody, regardless of your rank &ndash; whether you are a governor, MP, a billionaire, my brother, my sister &ndash; if you disrupt peace or issue threats you will be dealt with on the spot.&rdquo;Marwa spoke at Bamburi Mwisho stage, when he flagged off a peace caravan to preach peace in Mombasa county.He said the security agencies are under instructions to deal with any potential conflict. &ldquo;There is a habit of youth being transported from Mombasa to cause havoc in Lamu, like they did in 2014,&rdquo; Marwa said.He added that youth in Chonyi and Jibana, Kilifi, are being transported to Kwale county to cause chaos. Others have bought pepper spray and rubber bullets to use during campaigns.&ldquo;The government is already aware. We were just warming up. The work starts now,&rdquo; the administrator warned.Kecosce executive director Phyllis Mwema said youths in the three counties have started showing signs of being used to cause violence. &ldquo;We have started seeing early signs in the Mpeketoni and Faza areas in Lamu, Tana River and Kilifi. Action should be taken now,&rdquo; Mwema said.Marwa said Kenyans should jealously guard peace. &ldquo;Very few countries experience the peace we have as a nation,&rdquo; he said.The strategy will involve civil society, religious leaders, politicians and the community.Sheikh Omar Twaha, a religious leader, said the strategy will only work if all people get on board. &ldquo;Kenya will still exist after the election. It will not be the end of the road,&rdquo; he said.