Kenya Sevens stars&rsquo; Dennis Ombachi, Oscar Ouma and Cyprian Kuto have been included in the Samurai team to play in this weekend&rsquo;s Amsterdam Sevens. Ombachi and Kuto are fresh from playing for Shujaa at the London Sevens last while Ouma last played for the national side in Wellington and Sydney tournaments in February.Samurai coach Christian Hitt is delighted to have the Kenyan trio play in his invitational outfit. &ldquo;We are delighted to have them. They bring an x factor and pace power to our squad and I am confident we can win the tournament,&rdquo; added Hitt.The tactician said that they expect a competitive tournament considering the calibre of teams participating this year at Amsterdam Sevens. &ldquo;There are actually too many teams to mention but they do include Suzies Saloon, Ireland, Italy, Waterboys, Wailers, Marauders,&rdquo; he added. The Kenyan trio join the likes of Sam Egerton, Luke Ctocker, Adrian Curry and Robbie Smith. A second string Kenya Sevens outfit participated last year and lost in the final to Sussie Saloon from Japan.Elsewhere, KCB skipper Curtis Lilako said the club will adopt similar tactic in tomorrow&rsquo;s Enterprise Cup final against Kabras. The two sides met in the Kenya Cup final where the bankers emerged victorious winning 35-8.The bankers dominated the battle up front with their forwards led by Lilako , Nick Ongeri , Oliver Mangeni and Rocky Aguko laying the platform for victory.The bankers are chasing a third consecutive Enterprise Cup, having beaten Kabras 24-12 in last year final and Homeboyz 30-3 in 2015. Lilako, however, admitted it will be tough final. &ldquo;We have all worked hard to get here. It will be a very tough match this weekend but the lion will roar once again,&rdquo; said Lilako. He, however, admitted that they expect Kabras to come out hard at them. &ldquo;We know Kabras have a score to settle with us and they will come hard at us. However, we are ready for them,&rdquo; he added. KCB edged Homeboyz 11-9 in the semifinal last week while Kabras beat Impala 16-15 in the other semi-final.