Anxiety has gripped Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s office, following reports that fallen politicians from the Mount Kenya region want to form a new party. The leaders are said to be looking for a new outfit, which they can control and use in 2022. Though the finer details are not out yet, our moles confirm the party will be funded by top business elites, as well as the politicians. Most of the people behind the strategy are wealthy influential politicians. They want a party that can guarantee them nomination certificates and whose policies they can influence from the very top. ***** Did Jubilee politicians who have been attending meetings at State House receive Sh500,000 each to oil their campaigns? Well, our bird at State House tells us that the high-powered delegations to the House on the Hill have not been coming back empty-handed. While visiting State House is a privilege, many are asking if President Uhuru Kenyatta has resurrected the culture of handouts to State House visitors synonymous with the Nyayo era. As to what the source of the huge sums of money at a time when Kenyans are struggling to put a single meal per day on their tables could be, only the House on the Hill can tell. More will be splurged in the coming days as we head to the official electioneering.***** Top officials at the Lands ministry headed by Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi are on the spot over the disappearance of files, especially those for the prime parcels, where the process of preparing title deeds was underway. For instance, a surveyor was heard complaining how she has been frustrated in her bid to trace File Number 92778 for prime land in Juja. The land originally belonged to a prominent family before it was subdivided and sold to individual buyers. Those in the know have intimated that the era of hiding files and demanding kickbacks before tracing the crucial documents is not yet over, despite the numerous promises by the Jubilee administration to cleanup the registry, including full digitisation of all records.***** Several contractors are up in arms against one senior official at the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Urban Development. The contractors allege that the official, a director at the ministry, is fond of extortion, sometimes in sums in excess of Sh10 million. Some of the contractors who have given out the money have actually lost contracts. But he still cons his way into collecting from those who win. One company is said to have taken the man to the EACC and the Ombudsman, yet little action has been taken. They are calling on the Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia to take action against the man, who, they say, continues to taint the image of the ministry.