Michael, 26, is the former manager of hip hop group Camp Mulla. The group was responsible for hits like Party don't stop, Fresh all day and Feel no pain.Also known as Mykie Tooni, he used to see two members, Shappaman and Taio Tripper, do freestyle rap for fun at clubs. One day, he approached them and told them they should do it professionally. The two then teamed up with Marcus, whose mum Susan Gachukia became the group's executive producer, and Karun, the woman in the group.The group broke up because members wanted to pursue different interests. Some went abroad, others went into different fields.Michael is currently a student at Riara University, runs a transportation company called Prestige Limo, and is the co-founder of a media company called Headsp_ce Afrika. Through his Prestige Limo company, he is an Uber rider partner. What that simply means, is he own cars, five of them, under his company, Prestige Limo Ltd. He has then hired drivers and sometimes drives one of his cars to make some more cash.MICHAEL'S DIARYI get up at 7am and, depending on whether I have a class that morning, I might go to Riara University, where I am pursuing a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration.In the afternoon, I go to the music studio in school and after class, I go to our media house - Headsp_ce Afrika.Headsp_ce is an all-round media house that incubates creatives and provides creative services to the upper echelon of the media industry. I get home pretty late after a creative evening At Headsp_ce, where I work on my assignments and check on the operational log for Prestige Limo.On Saturdays, I get to spend time with family and friends. We hang out and I love to cook during Saturday barbecues.After this, I'll drive an Uber. I prefer driving on weekends and give my colleagues (fellow drivers) at my company a chance to go spend time with their families.On Sundays, it's more of brunch that I take, rather than breakfast, because I wake up at around midday.I spend some spiritual time with myself and then I go to the studio for a bit with my team before I venture into the Uber and work from the evening up until early morning.Luckily, class starts on Monday afternoon so I can work until early morning on Sundays then a driver takes over as from Monday morning.