The company has unveiled its latest premium model, the OPPO F3, a dual selfie camera phone featuring high-end specs and a number of unusual tweaks intending to drive the next wave of the selfie revolution in Kenya. Oppo ranked as the number four Smartphone brand globally In 2016 and also fourth by market share according to IDC, which is a global organisation that helps IT professionals, business executives, and the investment community make fact-based decisions on technology purchases and business strategy. The company sold nearly 100 million units in 2016, representing a year-on-year growth of 133 percent. The device packs a dual front-facing selfie camera; a high-resolution 16MP shooter for high quality selfies with beautification technology, paired with an 8MP wide-angle shooter with a field-of-view that is 2 times larger than standard selfie camera for group selfies which extend more potential and fun when capturing memories with friends and family. &ldquo;Selfies and group selfies have now become a social norm for our consumers. The F3 will let them enjoy a hassle-free group selfie experience and further reinforce OPPO&rsquo;s leading position in camera phone innovation in the industry,&rdquo; said Mr. Andy Shi Managing Director, OPPO Africa and Middle East. Selfies and group selfies reflect how people, especially the modern generation are socializing and sharing their lives on social media. The group selfie and distortion-minimizing features introduced in the earlier F-series model have made it a popular hit among the consumers across Africa and international markets. &ldquo;OPPO F3 offers high-quality photography performance to the people and will bring them together for the best possible group selfie fun with a stunning design, sharp colorful screen, enhanced battery life all at an amazingly reasonable price,&rdquo; Shi added. With the release of the camera phone in the Kenyan market, OPPO which has now been ranked fourth globally by market share and earned the No. 1 spot in China for two recent quarters, seeks to replicate the success in Kenya which is one of its stronghold by introducing products that never fail to inspire and excite. The brand has promised to give a remarkable technological breakthrough that will change how the world sees Smartphone photography by looking forward to release a series of Smartphones that will provide even more solutions to photography in 2017. For the first time ever, OPPO Kenya has opened pre-orders for the device on 16th to 22nd May and the first sales date on 23rd May 2017.