Mumias Sugar has started the search for a new chief executive less than two years after re-hiring Australian Errol Johnston to turn around the struggling miller. The publicly-traded company, owned 20 per cent by the state, said interested candidates should apply by May 17. &ldquo;Reporting to the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer will be responsible to the board for the implementation of the strategic, operational and financial plans of the company,&rdquo; Mumias said in paid advertisement. The successful candidate should have a minimum of 10 years experience in executive management position, the firm said, with at least five of those in a manufacturing environment. The company did not disclose the fate of Johnston and whether he had resigned or fired. Johnston took over at Mumias in August 2015 after being reappointed on July 9. He had previously headed the company between 1998 and 2001. His re-appointment followed a Sh1 billion state bailout package to clear arrears to cane farmers. President Kenyatta, who authorised the bailout, had ordered investigation and prosecution of top managers who had ran down the once giant firm, which controlled more than 60 per cent sugar market share. Johnston had listed winning back cane farmers through &ldquo;prompt payment of their dues&rdquo; as his priority when he was officially unveiled on August 14. He took over after the company had hired eight senior managers in June 2015 to replace those sent home over corruption allegations. The miller&rsquo;s full-year loss has, however, deepened from Sh4.64 billion in June 2015 to a projected Sh5.91 billion for the year which will end next month,. This is based on profit warning notice on February 28. Chairman Kennedy Mulwa had notified investors full-year loss through June will soar by at least 25 per cent this financial year compared with Sh4.73 billion in the year ended June 2016. This adds up to at least Sh5.91 billion loss for 2016-17 financial year. &ldquo;The company envisages cane shortages running through second half (January to June ) of the year,&rdquo; chairman Mulwa said. &ldquo;MSC has, however, planned for its future through an accelerated cane development plan with core focus being on increasing land under the company&rsquo;s control. The outcome of this plan will be realised in subsequent period.&rdquo; Mumias shut its plant on April 6 for a three-month routine maintenance and repairs to &ldquo;take advantage of the prevailing weather conditions&rdquo;, Johnston said in a notice last month. The government has lined up another Sh1 billion bailout this fiscal year, Sh239 million of which was released earlier this year.